Network Working Group
Request for Comments: 3551
Obsoletes: 1890
Category: Standards Track

H. Schulzrinne
Columbia University
S. Casner
Packet Design
July 2003

RTP Pro’¼üle for Audio and Video Conferences with Minimal Control

Status of this Memo

This document speci(cid:12)es an Internet standards track protocol for the Internet community, and
requests discussion and suggestions for improvements. Please refer to the current edition of the
\Internet O(cid:14)cial Protocol Standards" (STD 1) for the standardization state and status of this
protocol. Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003). All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

This document describes a pro(cid:12)le called \RTP/AVP" for the use of the real-time transport protocol
(RTP), version 2, and the associated control protocol, RTCP, within audio and video multipartici-
pant conferences with minimal control. It provides interpretations of generic (cid:12)elds within the RTP
speci(cid:12)cation suitable for audio and video conferences. In particular, this document de(cid:12)nes a set of
default mappings from payload type numbers to encodings.

This document also describes how audio and video data may be carried within RTP. It de(cid:12)nes a set
of standard encodings and their names when used within RTP. The descriptions provide pointers
to reference implementations and the detailed standards. This document is meant as an aid for
implementors of audio, video and other real-time multimedia applications.

This memorandum obsoletes RFC 1890. It is mostly backwards-compatible except for functions
removed because two interoperable implementations were not found. The additions to RFC 1890
codify existing practice in the use of payload formats under this pro(cid:12)le and include new payload
formats de(cid:12)ned since RFC 1890 was published.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 1]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

Table of Contents

1.

Introduction

1.1 Terminology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2. RTP and RTCP Packet Forms and Protocol Behavior

3. Registering Additional Encodings

4. Audio

4.1 Encoding-Independent Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.2 Operating Recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.3 Guidelines for Sample-Based Audio Encodings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.4 Guidelines for Frame-Based Audio Encodings

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4

4

4

6

7

7

9

9

9

4.5 Audio Encodings

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

4.5.1 DVI4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

4.5.2 G722 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

4.5.3 G723 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

4.5.4 G726-40, G726-32, G726-24, and G726-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

4.5.5 G728 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

4.5.6 G729 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

4.5.7 G729D and G729E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

4.5.8 GSM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

4.5.9 GSM-EFR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

4.5.10 L8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

4.5.11 L16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

4.5.12 LPC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

4.5.13 MPA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

4.5.14 PCMA and PCMU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

4.5.15 QCELP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

4.5.16 RED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

4.5.17 VDVI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 2]

RFC 3551

5. Video

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

25

5.1 CelB . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

5.2

JPEG . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

5.3 H261 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

5.4 H263 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

5.5 H263-1998 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

5.6 MPV . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

5.7 MP2T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

5.8 nv . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

6. Payload Type De’¼ünitions

7. RTP over TCP and Similar Byte Stream Protocols

8. Port Assignment

9. Changes from RFC 1890

10. Security Considerations

11. IANA Considerations

12. References

27

29

29

30

32

33

33

12.1 Normative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

12.2 Informative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

13. Current Locations of Related Resources

14. Acknowledgments

15. Intellectual Property Rights Statement

16. AuthorsŌĆÖ Addresses

17. Full Copyright Statement

34

36

36

37

38

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 3]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

1.

Introduction

This pro(cid:12)le de(cid:12)nes aspects of RTP left unspeci(cid:12)ed in the RTP Version 2 protocol de(cid:12)nition
(RFC 3550) [1].
This pro(cid:12)le is intended for the use within audio and video conferences with
minimal session control. In particular, no support for the negotiation of parameters or member-
ship control is provided. The pro(cid:12)le is expected to be useful in sessions where no negotiation or
membership control are used (e.g., using the static payload types and the membership indications
provided by RTCP), but this pro(cid:12)le may also be useful in conjunction with a higher-level control
protocol.

Use of this pro(cid:12)le may be implicit in the use of the appropriate applications; there may be no
explicit indication by port number, protocol identi(cid:12)er or the like. Applications such as session
directories may use the name for this pro(cid:12)le speci(cid:12)ed in Section 11.

Other pro(cid:12)les may make di(cid:11)erent choices for the items speci(cid:12)ed here.

This document also de(cid:12)nes a set of encodings and payload formats for audio and video. These
payload format descriptions are included here only as a matter of convenience since they are too
small to warrant separate documents. Use of these payload formats is NOT REQUIRED to use
this pro(cid:12)le. Only the binding of some of the payload formats to static payload type numbers in
Tables 4 and 5 is normative.

1.1 Terminology

The key words \must", \must not", \required", \shall", \shall not", \should", \should
not", \recommended", \may", and \optional" in this document are to be interpreted as de-
scribed in RFC 2119 [2] and indicate requirement levels for implementations compliant with this
RTP pro(cid:12)le.

This document de(cid:12)nes the term media type as dividing encodings of audio and video content into
three classes: audio, video and audio/video (interleaved).

2. RTP and RTCP Packet Forms and Protocol Behavior

The section \RTP Pro(cid:12)les and Payload Format Speci(cid:12)cations" of RFC 3550 enumerates a number
of items that can be speci(cid:12)ed or modi(cid:12)ed in a pro(cid:12)le. This section addresses these items. Generally,
this pro(cid:12)le follows the default and/or recommended aspects of the RTP speci(cid:12)cation.

RTP data header: The standard format of the (cid:12)xed RTP data header is used (one marker bit).

Payload types: Static payload types are de(cid:12)ned in Section 6.

RTP data header additions: No additional (cid:12)xed (cid:12)elds are appended to the RTP data header.

RTP data header extensions: No RTP header extensions are de(cid:12)ned, but applications operat-
ing under this pro(cid:12)le may use such extensions. Thus, applications should not assume that
the RTP header X bit is always zero and should be prepared to ignore the header extension.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 4]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

If a header extension is de(cid:12)ned in the future, that de(cid:12)nition must specify the contents of the
(cid:12)rst 16 bits in such a way that multiple di(cid:11)erent extensions can be identi(cid:12)ed.

RTCP packet types: No additional RTCP packet types are de(cid:12)ned by this pro(cid:12)le speci(cid:12)cation.

RTCP report interval: The suggested constants are to be used for the RTCP report interval
calculation. Sessions operating under this pro(cid:12)le may specify a separate parameter for the
RTCP tra(cid:14)c bandwidth rather than using the default fraction of the session bandwidth.
The RTCP tra(cid:14)c bandwidth may be divided into two separate session parameters for those
participants which are active data senders and those which are not. Following the recom-
mendation in the RTP speci(cid:12)cation [1] that 1/4 of the RTCP bandwidth be dedicated to
data senders, the recommended default values for these two parameters would be 1.25%
and 3.75%, respectively. For a particular session, the RTCP bandwidth for non-data-senders
may be set to zero when operating on unidirectional links or for sessions that donŌĆÖt require
feedback on the quality of reception. The RTCP bandwidth for data senders should be
kept non-zero so that sender reports can still be sent for inter-media synchronization and to
identify the source by CNAME. The means by which the one or two session parameters for
RTCP bandwidth are speci(cid:12)ed is beyond the scope of this memo.

SR/RR extension: No extension section is de(cid:12)ned for the RTCP SR or RR packet.

SDES use: Applications may use any of the SDES items described in the RTP speci(cid:12)cation.
While CNAME information must be sent every reporting interval, other items should only
be sent every third reporting interval, with NAME sent seven out of eight times within that
slot and the remaining SDES items cyclically taking up the eighth slot, as de(cid:12)ned in Section
6.2.2 of the RTP speci(cid:12)cation. In other words, NAME is sent in RTCP packets 1, 4, 7, 10,
13, 16, 19, while, say, EMAIL is used in RTCP packet 22.

Security: The RTP default security services are also the default under this pro(cid:12)le.

String-to-key mapping: No mapping is speci(cid:12)ed by this pro(cid:12)le.

Congestion: RTP and this pro(cid:12)le may be used in the context of enhanced network service, for
example, through Integrated Services (RFC 1633) [4] or Di(cid:11)erentiated Services (RFC 2475)
[5], or they may be used with best e(cid:11)ort service.
If enhanced service is being used, RTP receivers should monitor packet loss to ensure that
If it is not, then they should
the service that was requested is actually being delivered.
assume that they are receiving best-e(cid:11)ort service and behave accordingly.
If best-e(cid:11)ort service is being used, RTP receivers should monitor packet loss to ensure that
the packet loss rate is within acceptable parameters. Packet loss is considered acceptable
if a TCP ’¼éow across the same network path and experiencing the same network conditions
would achieve an average throughput, measured on a reasonable timescale, that is not less
than the RTP ’¼éow is achieving. This condition can be satis(cid:12)ed by implementing congestion
control mechanisms to adapt the transmission rate (or the number of layers subscribed for a
layered multicast session), or by arranging for a receiver to leave the session if the loss rate
is unacceptably high.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 5]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

The comparison to TCP cannot be speci(cid:12)ed exactly, but is intended as an \order-of-magnitude"
comparison in timescale and throughput. The timescale on which TCP throughput is mea-
sured is the round-trip time of the connection. In essence, this requirement states that it is
not acceptable to deploy an application (using RTP or any other transport protocol) on the
best-e(cid:11)ort Internet which consumes bandwidth arbitrarily and does not compete fairly with
TCP within an order of magnitude.

Underlying protocol: The pro(cid:12)le speci(cid:12)es the use of RTP over unicast and multicast UDP as
(This does not preclude the use of these de(cid:12)nitions when RTP is carried by

well as TCP.
other lower-layer protocols.)

Transport mapping: The standard mapping of RTP and RTCP to transport-level addresses is

used.

Encapsulation: This pro(cid:12)le leaves to applications the speci(cid:12)cation of RTP encapsulation in pro-

tocols other than UDP.

3. Registering Additional Encodings

This pro(cid:12)le lists a set of encodings, each of which is comprised of a particular media data compres-
sion or representation plus a payload format for encapsulation within RTP. Some of those payload
formats are speci(cid:12)ed here, while others are speci(cid:12)ed in separate RFCs. It is expected that addi-
tional encodings beyond the set listed here will be created in the future and speci(cid:12)ed in additional
payload format RFCs.
This pro(cid:12)le also assigns to each encoding a short name which may be used by higher-level control
protocols, such as the Session Description Protocol (SDP), RFC 2327 [6], to identify encodings
selected for a particular RTP session.

In some contexts it may be useful to refer to these encodings in the form of a MIME content-type.
To facilitate this, RFC 3555 [7] provides registrations for all of the encodings names listed here as
MIME subtype names under the \audio" and \video" MIME types through the MIME registration
procedure as speci(cid:12)ed in RFC 2048 [8].

Any additional encodings speci(cid:12)ed for use under this pro(cid:12)le (or others) may also be assigned names
registered as MIME subtypes with the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA). This registry
provides a means to insure that the names assigned to the additional encodings are kept unique.
RFC 3555 speci(cid:12)es the information that is required for the registration of RTP encodings.

In addition to assigning names to encodings, this pro(cid:12)le also assigns static RTP payload type
numbers to some of them. However, the payload type number space is relatively small and cannot
accommodate assignments for all existing and future encodings. During the early stages of RTP
development, it was necessary to use statically assigned payload types because no other mechanism
had been speci(cid:12)ed to bind encodings to payload types. It was anticipated that non-RTP means
beyond the scope of this memo (such as directory services or invitation protocols) would be speci(cid:12)ed
to establish a dynamic mapping between a payload type and an encoding. Now, mechanisms for
de(cid:12)ning dynamic payload type bindings have been speci(cid:12)ed in the Session Description Protocol
(SDP) and in other protocols such as ITU-T Recommendation H.323/H.245. These mechanisms

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 6]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

associate the registered name of the encoding/payload format, along with any additional required
parameters, such as the RTP timestamp clock rate and number of channels, with a payload type
number. This association is e(cid:11)ective only for the duration of the RTP session in which the dynamic
payload type binding is made. This association applies only to the RTP session for which it is made,
thus the numbers can be re-used for di(cid:11)erent encodings in di(cid:11)erent sessions so the number space
limitation is avoided.

This pro(cid:12)le reserves payload type numbers in the range 96-127 exclusively for dynamic assignment.
Applications should (cid:12)rst use values in this range for dynamic payload types. Those applications
which need to de(cid:12)ne more than 32 dynamic payload types may bind codes below 96, in which case
it is recommended that unassigned payload type numbers be used (cid:12)rst. However, the statically
assigned payload types are default bindings and may be dynamically bound to new encodings if
needed. Rede(cid:12)ning payload types below 96 may cause incorrect operation if an attempt is made to
join a session without obtaining session description information that de(cid:12)nes the dynamic payload
types.
Dynamic payload types should not be used without a well-de(cid:12)ned mechanism to indicate the
mapping. Systems that expect to interoperate with others operating under this pro(cid:12)le should
not make their own assignments of proprietary encodings to particular, (cid:12)xed payload types.

This speci(cid:12)cation establishes the policy that no additional static payload types will be assigned
beyond the ones de(cid:12)ned in this document. Establishing this policy avoids the problem of trying
to create a set of criteria for accepting static assignments and encourages the implementation and
deployment of the dynamic payload type mechanisms.

The (cid:12)nal set of static payload type assignments is provided in Tables 4 and 5.

4. Audio

4.1 Encoding-Independent Rules

Since the ability to suppress silence is one of the primary motivations for using packets to transmit
voice, the RTP header carries both a sequence number and a timestamp to allow a receiver to
distinguish between lost packets and periods of time when no data was transmitted. Discontiguous
transmission (silence suppression) may be used with any audio payload format. Receivers must
assume that senders may suppress silence unless this is restricted by signaling speci(cid:12)ed elsewhere.
(Even if the transmitter does not suppress silence, the receiver should be prepared to handle periods
when no data is present since packets may be lost.)

Some payload formats (see Sections 4.5.3 and 4.5.6) de(cid:12)ne a \silence insertion descriptor" or \com-
fort noise" frame to specify parameters for arti(cid:12)cial noise that may be generated during a period
of silence to approximate the background noise at the source. For other payload formats, a generic
Comfort Noise (CN) payload format is speci(cid:12)ed in RFC 3389 [9]. When the CN payload format
is used with another payload format, di(cid:11)erent values in the RTP payload type (cid:12)eld distinguish
comfort-noise packets from those of the selected payload format.

For applications which send either no packets or occasional comfort-noise packets during silence,
the (cid:12)rst packet of a talkspurt, that is, the (cid:12)rst packet after a silence period during which packets

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 7]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

have not been transmitted contiguously, should be distinguished by setting the marker bit in the
RTP data header to one. The marker bit in all other packets is zero. The beginning of a talkspurt
may be used to adjust the playout delay to re’¼éect changing network delays. Applications without
silence suppression must set the marker bit to zero.

The RTP clock rate used for generating the RTP timestamp is independent of the number of
channels and the encoding; it usually equals the number of sampling periods per second. For N -
channel encodings, each sampling period (say, 1/8,000 of a second) generates N samples. (This
terminology is standard, but somewhat confusing, as the total number of samples generated per
second is then the sampling rate times the channel count.)

If multiple audio channels are used, channels are numbered left-to-right, starting at one. In RTP
audio packets, information from lower-numbered channels precedes that from higher-numbered
channels. For more than two channels, the convention followed by the AIFF-C audio interchange
format should be followed [3], using the following notation, unless some other convention is spec-
i(cid:12)ed for a particular encoding or payload format:

left
right
center
surround

l
r
c
S
F front
R rear

channels description

stereo

2
3
4
5
6

channel
4

3

5

2
r
r
c

1
l
c
l
r
l
Fl Fr Fc Sl Sr
rc
c
l

lc

S

r

6

S

Note: RFC 1890 de(cid:12)ned two conventions for the ordering of four audio channels. Since
the ordering is indicated implicitly by the number of channels, this was ambiguous. In
this revision, the order described as \quadrophonic" has been eliminated to remove the
ambiguity. This choice was based on the observation that quadrophonic consumer audio
format did not become popular whereas surround-sound subsequently has.

Samples for all channels belonging to a single sampling instant must be within the same packet.
The interleaving of samples from di(cid:11)erent channels depends on the encoding. General guidelines
are given in Section 4.3 and 4.4.
The sampling frequency should be drawn from the set: 8,000, 11,025, 16,000, 22,050, 24,000,
32,000, 44,100 and 48,000 Hz. (Older Apple Macintosh computers had a native sample rate of
22,254.54 Hz, which can be converted to 22,050 with acceptable quality by dropping 4 samples in
a 20 ms frame.) However, most audio encodings are de(cid:12)ned for a more restricted set of sampling
frequencies. Receivers should be prepared to accept multi-channel audio, but may choose to only
play a single channel.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 8]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

4.2 Operating Recommendations

The following recommendations are default operating parameters. Applications should be pre-
pared to handle other values. The ranges given are meant to give guidance to application writers,
allowing a set of applications conforming to these guidelines to interoperate without additional
negotiation. These guidelines are not intended to restrict operating parameters for applications
that can negotiate a set of interoperable parameters, e.g., through a conference control protocol.
For packetized audio, the default packetization interval should have a duration of 20 ms or one
frame, whichever is longer, unless otherwise noted in Table 1 (column \ms/packet"). The pack-
etization interval determines the minimum end-to-end delay; longer packets introduce less header
overhead but higher delay and make packet loss more noticeable. For non-interactive applications
such as lectures or for links with severe bandwidth constraints, a higher packetization delay may
be used. A receiver should accept packets representing between 0 and 200 ms of audio data. (For
framed audio encodings, a receiver should accept packets with a number of frames equal to 200
ms divided by the frame duration, rounded up.) This restriction allows reasonable bu(cid:11)er sizing for
the receiver.

4.3 Guidelines for Sample-Based Audio Encodings

In sample-based encodings, each audio sample is represented by a (cid:12)xed number of bits. Within the
compressed audio data, codes for individual samples may span octet boundaries. An RTP audio
packet may contain any number of audio samples, subject to the constraint that the number of
bits per sample times the number of samples per packet yields an integral octet count. Fractional
encodings produce less than one octet per sample.

The duration of an audio packet is determined by the number of samples in the packet.

For sample-based encodings producing one or more octets per sample, samples from di(cid:11)erent chan-
nels sampled at the same sampling instant should be packed in consecutive octets. For example,
for a two-channel encoding, the octet sequence is (left channel, (cid:12)rst sample), (right channel, (cid:12)rst
sample), (left channel, second sample), (right channel, second sample), . . . . For multi-octet encod-
ings, octets should be transmitted in network byte order (i.e., most signi(cid:12)cant octet (cid:12)rst).

The packing of sample-based encodings producing less than one octet per sample is encoding-
speci(cid:12)c.

The RTP timestamp re’¼éects the instant at which the (cid:12)rst sample in the packet was sampled, that
is, the oldest information in the packet.

4.4 Guidelines for Frame-Based Audio Encodings

Frame-based encodings encode a (cid:12)xed-length block of audio into another block of compressed data,
typically also of (cid:12)xed length. For frame-based encodings, the sender may choose to combine several
such frames into a single RTP packet. The receiver can tell the number of frames contained in an
RTP packet, if all the frames have the same length, by dividing the RTP payload length by the
audio frame size which is de(cid:12)ned as part of the encoding. This does not work when carrying frames
of di(cid:11)erent sizes unless the frame sizes are relatively prime. If not, the frames must indicate their
size.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 9]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

For frame-based codecs, the channel order is de(cid:12)ned for the whole block. That is, for two-channel
audio, right and left samples should be coded independently, with the encoded frame for the left
channel preceding that for the right channel.
All frame-oriented audio codecs should be able to encode and decode several consecutive frames
within a single packet. Since the frame size for the frame-oriented codecs is given, there is no
need to use a separate designation for the same encoding, but with di(cid:11)erent number of frames per
packet.
RTP packets shall contain a whole number of frames, with frames inserted according to age within
a packet, so that the oldest frame (to be played (cid:12)rst) occurs immediately after the RTP packet
header. The RTP timestamp re’¼éects the instant at which the (cid:12)rst sample in the (cid:12)rst frame was
sampled, that is, the oldest information in the packet.

4.5 Audio Encodings

name of
encoding
sample/frame bits/sample
sample
DVI4
G722
sample
G723
frame
G726-40
sample
G726-32
sample
G726-24
sample
G726-16
sample
G728
frame
G729
frame
G729D
frame
G729E
frame
GSM
frame
GSM-EFR frame
L8
L16
LPC
MPA
PCMA
PCMU
QCELP
VDVI

4
8
N/A
5
4
3
2
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
8
16
N/A
N/A
8
8
N/A
var.

sample
sample
frame
frame
sample
sample
frame
sample

sampling

30

default
rate ms/frame ms/packet
20
var.
20
16,000
30
8,000
20
8,000
20
8,000
20
8,000
20
8,000
20
8,000
20
8,000
20
8,000
20
8,000
20
8,000
20
8,000
20
var.
20
var.
8,000
20
var.
var.
var.
8,000
var.

2.5
10
10
10
20
20

20
20
20
20

20
var.

20

Table 1: Properties of Audio Encodings (N/A: not applicable; var.: variable)

The characteristics of the audio encodings described in this document are shown in Table 1; they
are listed in order of their payload type in Table 4. While most audio codecs are only speci(cid:12)ed
for a (cid:12)xed sampling rate, some sample-based algorithms (indicated by an entry of \var." in the

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 10]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

sampling rate column of Table 1) may be used with di(cid:11)erent sampling rates, resulting in di(cid:11)erent
coded bit rates. When used with a sampling rate other than that for which a static payload type is
de(cid:12)ned, non-RTP means beyond the scope of this memo must be used to de(cid:12)ne a dynamic payload
type and must indicate the selected RTP timestamp clock rate, which is usually the same as the
sampling rate for audio.

4.5.1 DVI4

DVI4 uses an adaptive delta pulse code modulation (ADPCM) encoding scheme that was speci(cid:12)ed
by the Interactive Multimedia Association (IMA) as the \IMA ADPCM wave type". However, the
encoding de(cid:12)ned here as DVI4 di(cid:11)ers in three respects from the IMA speci(cid:12)cation:

ŌĆó The RTP DVI4 header contains the predicted value rather than the (cid:12)rst sample value con-

tained the IMA ADPCM block header.

ŌĆó IMA ADPCM blocks contain an odd number of samples, since the (cid:12)rst sample of a block
is contained just in the header (uncompressed), followed by an even number of compressed
samples. DVI4 has an even number of compressed samples only, using the ŌĆśpredictŌĆÖ word from
the header to decode the (cid:12)rst sample.

ŌĆó For DVI4, the 4-bit samples are packed with the (cid:12)rst sample in the four most signi(cid:12)cant
bits and the second sample in the four least signi(cid:12)cant bits. In the IMA ADPCM codec, the
samples are packed in the opposite order.

Each packet contains a single DVI block. This pro(cid:12)le only de(cid:12)nes the 4-bit-per-sample version,
while IMA also speci(cid:12)ed a 3-bit-per-sample encoding.

The \header" word for each channel has the following structure:

int16 predict; /* predicted value of first sample

from the previous block (L16 format) */

u_int8 index;
u_int8 reserved; /* set to zero by sender, ignored by receiver */

/* current index into stepsize table */

Each octet following the header contains two 4-bit samples, thus the number of samples per packet
must be even because there is no means to indicate a partially (cid:12)lled last octet.

Packing of samples for multiple channels is for further study.

The IMA ADPCM algorithm was described in the document IMA Recommended Practices for
Enhancing Digital Audio Compatibility in Multimedia Systems (version 3.0). However, the Inter-
active Multimedia Association ceased operations in 1997. Resources for an archived copy of that
document and a software implementation of the RTP DVI4 encoding are listed in Section 13.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 11]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

4.5.2 G722

G722 is speci(cid:12)ed in ITU-T Recommendation G.722, \7 kHz audio-coding within 64 kbit/s". The
G.722 encoder produces a stream of octets, each of which shall be octet-aligned in an RTP packet.
The (cid:12)rst bit transmitted in the G.722 octet, which is the most signi(cid:12)cant bit of the higher sub-band
sample, shall correspond to the most signi(cid:12)cant bit of the octet in the RTP packet.

Even though the actual sampling rate for G.722 audio is 16,000 Hz, the RTP clock rate for the
G722 payload format is 8,000 Hz because that value was erroneously assigned in RFC 1890 and
must remain unchanged for backward compatibility. The octet rate or sample-pair rate is 8,000
Hz.

4.5.3 G723

G723 is speci(cid:12)ed in ITU Recommendation G.723.1, \Dual-rate speech coder for multimedia com-
munications transmitting at 5.3 and 6.3 kbit/s". The G.723.1 5.3/6.3 kbit/s codec was de(cid:12)ned by
the ITU-T as a mandatory codec for ITU-T H.324 GSTN videophone terminal applications. The
algorithm has a ’¼éoating point speci(cid:12)cation in Annex B to G.723.1, a silence compression algorithm
in Annex A to G.723.1 and a scalable channel coding scheme for wireless applications in G.723.1
Annex C.

This Recommendation speci(cid:12)es a coded representation that can be used for compressing the speech
signal component of multi-media services at a very low bit rate. Audio is encoded in 30 ms frames,
with an additional delay of 7.5 ms due to look-ahead. A G.723.1 frame can be one of three sizes:
24 octets (6.3 kb/s frame), 20 octets (5.3 kb/s frame), or 4 octets. These 4-octet frames are called
SID frames (Silence Insertion Descriptor) and are used to specify comfort noise parameters. There
is no restriction on how 4, 20, and 24 octet frames are intermixed. The least signi(cid:12)cant two bits of
the (cid:12)rst octet in the frame determine the frame size and codec type:

bits
00
01
10
11

content
high-rate speech (6.3 kb/s)
low-rate speech (5.3 kb/s)
SID frame
reserved

octets/frame
24
20
4

It is possible to switch between the two rates at any 30 ms frame boundary. Both (5.3 kb/s and 6.3
kb/s) rates are a mandatory part of the encoder and decoder. Receivers must accept both data
rates and must accept SID frames unless restriction of these capabilities has been signaled. The
MIME registration for G723 in RFC 3555 [7] speci(cid:12)es parameters that may be used with MIME or
SDP to restrict to a single data rate or to restrict the use of SID frames. This coder was optimized
to represent speech with near-toll quality at the above rates using a limited amount of complexity.

The packing of the encoded bit stream into octets and the transmission order of the octets is
speci(cid:12)ed in Rec. G.723.1 and is the same as that produced by the G.723 C code reference im-
plementation. For the 6.3 kb/s data rate, this packing is illustrated as follows, where the header
(HDR) bits are always \0 0" as shown in Fig. 1 to indicate operation at 6.3 kb/s, and the Z bit
is always set to zero. The diagrams show the bit packing in \network byte order", also known as

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 12]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

big-endian order. The bits of each 32-bit word are numbered 0 to 31, with the most signi(cid:12)cant
bit on the left and numbered 0. The octets (bytes) of each word are transmitted most signi(cid:12)cant
octet (cid:12)rst. The bits of each data (cid:12)eld are numbered in the order of the bit stream representation
of the encoding (least signi(cid:12)cant bit (cid:12)rst). The vertical bars indicate the boundaries between (cid:12)eld
fragments.

3

2

1

|
|

|
|

LPC

LPC

LPC

ACL0

GAIN3

GAIN1

GAIN0

GAIN2

|HDR|
|
|

|ACL|A| GAIN0 |ACL|ACL|
| 3 | 2 |
| 1 |C|

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|LPC|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0|1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0|2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1|0 0 0 0 0 0|2 2|
|3 2 1 0 9 8 7 6|1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4|5 4 3 2 1 0|3 2|
|5 4 3 2 1 0|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
| ACL2
|
|
|0 0 0 0 0|0 0|0|0 0 0 0|0 0|0 0|1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0|
|4 3 2 1 0|1 0|6|3 2 1 0|1 0|6 5|1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4|7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| GRID | GAIN3 |
| GAIN2 | GAIN1 |
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|0 0 0 0|1 1 0 0|1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0|1 1 0 0|
|3 2 1 0|1 0 9 8|1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4|7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|3 2 1 0|1 0 9 8|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
|
|
|
|
|
|0 0 0 0 0 0 0|0|0 0|1 1 1 0 0 0|0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0|1 1 1 1 1 1|
|6 5 4 3 2 1 0| |1 0|2 1 0 9 8 7|9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2|1 0|5 4 3 2 1 0|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| POS3 | POS2 |
| POS2 | POS1 |
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0|1 1 1 1|1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0|1 1 1 1|
|9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2|3 2 1 0|3 2 1 0|1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4|3 2 1 0|5 4 3 2|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|POS|PSIG2| PSIG1 | PSIG3 |PSIG2|
|
|
| 3 |
|
|1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0 0 0|1 1|0 0 0|0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0|
|1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4|5 4 3 2 1 0|3 2|2 1 0|4 3 2 1 0|4 3 2 1 0|5 4 3|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

|Z|POS| MSBPOS
| | 0 |

|POS|
| 1 |

MSBPOS

PSIG0

POS3

POS1

POS0

POS0

POS2

|
|

|

|

|

Figure 1: G.723 (6.3 kb/s) bit packing

For the 5.3 kb/s data rate, the header (HDR) bits are always \0 1", as shown in Fig. 2, to indicate
operation at 5.3 kb/s.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 13]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

3

2

1

|
|

|
|

LPC

LPC

LPC

ACL0

GAIN1

GAIN0

|HDR|
|
|

|ACL|A| GAIN0 |ACL|ACL|
| 3 | 2 |
| 1 |C|

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|LPC|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|0 0 0 0 0 0|0 1|1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0|2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1|0 0 0 0 0 0|2 2|
|5 4 3 2 1 0|
|3 2 1 0 9 8 7 6|1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4|5 4 3 2 1 0|3 2|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| ACL2
|
|
|
|0 0 0 0 0|0 0|0|0 0 0 0|0 0|0 0|1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0|
|4 3 2 1 0|1 0|6|3 2 1 0|1 0|6 5|1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4|7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| GRID | GAIN3 |
|
| GAIN2 | GAIN1 |
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|0 0 0 0|1 1 0 0|1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0|1 1 0 0|
|3 2 1 0|1 0 9 8|1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4|7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|4 3 2 1|1 0 9 8|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
| POS1 | POS0 |
|
|
|
|
|
|
|0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0|1 1 0 0|1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0|
|7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|3 2 1 0|1 0 9 8|1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4|7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| PSIG1 | PSIG0 | PSIG3 | PSIG2 |
| POS3 | POS2 |
|
|
|
|
|
|
|0 0 0 0|1 1 0 0|1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0|0 0 0 0|
|3 2 1 0|1 0 9 8|1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4|3 2 1 0|3 2 1 0|3 2 1 0|3 2 1 0|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

GAIN2

GAIN3

POS3

POS0

POS2

POS1

|
|

|

|

Figure 2: G.723 (5.3 kb/s) bit packing

The packing of G.723.1 SID (silence) frames, which are indicated by the header (HDR) bits having
the pattern \1 0", is depicted in Fig. 3.

2

1

LPC

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|LPC|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|0 0 0 0 0 0|1 0|1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0|2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1|0 0 0 0 0 0|2 2|
|5 4 3 2 1 0|
|3 2 1 0 9 8 7 6|1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4|5 4 3 2 1 0|3 2|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

|HDR|
|
|

GAIN

LPC

LPC

|
|

3

Figure 3: G.723 SID mode bit packing

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 14]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

4.5.4 G726-40, G726-32, G726-24, and G726-16

ITU-T Recommendation G.726 describes, among others, the algorithm recommended for conversion
of a single 64 kbit/s A-law or mu-law PCM channel encoded at 8,000 samples/sec to and from a
40, 32, 24, or 16 kbit/s channel. The conversion is applied to the PCM stream using an Adaptive
Di(cid:11)erential Pulse Code Modulation (ADPCM) transcoding technique. The ADPCM representation
consists of a series of codewords with a one-to-one correspondence to the samples in the PCM
stream. The G726 data rates of 40, 32, 24, and 16 kbit/s have codewords of 5, 4, 3, and 2 bits,
respectively.

The 16 and 24 kbit/s encodings do not provide toll quality speech. They are designed for used
in overloaded Digital Circuit Multiplication Equipment (DCME). ITU-T G.726 recommends that
the 16 and 24 kbit/s encodings should be alternated with higher data rate encodings to provide an
average sample size of between 3.5 and 3.7 bits per sample.

The encodings of G.726 are here denoted as G726-40, G726-32, G726-24, and G726-16. Prior to
1990, G721 described the 32 kbit/s ADPCM encoding, and G723 described the 40, 32, and 16
kbit/s encodings. Thus, G726-32 designates the same algorithm as G721 in RFC 1890.

A stream of G726 codewords contains no information on the encoding being used, therefore tran-
sitions between G726 encoding types are not permitted within a sequence of packed codewords.
Applications must determine the encoding type of packed codewords from the RTP payload iden-
ti(cid:12)er.
No payload-speci(cid:12)c header information shall be included as part of the audio data. A stream of
G726 codewords must be packed into octets as follows: the (cid:12)rst codeword is placed into the (cid:12)rst
octet such that the least signi(cid:12)cant bit of the codeword aligns with the least signi(cid:12)cant bit in the
octet, the second codeword is then packed so that its least signi(cid:12)cant bit coincides with the least
signi(cid:12)cant unoccupied bit in the octet. When a complete codeword cannot be placed into an octet,
the bits overlapping the octet boundary are placed into the least signi(cid:12)cant bits of the next octet.
Packing must end with a completely packed (cid:12)nal octet. The number of codewords packed will
therefore be a multiple of 8, 2, 8, and 4 for G726-40, G726-32, G726-24, and G726-16, respectively.
An example of the packing scheme for G726-32 codewords is as shown, where bit 7 is the least
signi(cid:12)cant bit of the (cid:12)rst octet, and bit A3 is the least signi(cid:12)cant bit of the (cid:12)rst codeword:

1

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-
|B B B B|A A A A|D D D D|C C C C| ...
|0 1 2 3|0 1 2 3|0 1 2 3|0 1 2 3|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

An example of the packing scheme for G726-24 codewords follows, where again bit 7 is the least
signi(cid:12)cant bit of the (cid:12)rst octet, and bit A2 is the least signi(cid:12)cant bit of the (cid:12)rst codeword:

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 15]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

1

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-
|C C|B B B|A A A|F|E E E|D D D|C|H H H|G G G|F F| ...
|1 2|0 1 2|0 1 2|2|0 1 2|0 1 2|0|0 1 2|0 1 2|0 1|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

2

Note that the \little-endian" direction in which samples are packed into octets in the G726-16, -24,
-32 and -40 payload formats speci(cid:12)ed here is consistent with ITU-T Recommendation X.420, but
is the opposite of what is speci(cid:12)ed in ITU-T Recommendation I.366.2 Annex E for ATM AAL2
transport. A second set of RTP payload formats matching the packetization of I.366.2 Annex E
and identi(cid:12)ed by MIME subtypes AAL2-G726-16, -24, -32 and -40 will be speci(cid:12)ed in a separate
document.

4.5.5 G728

G728 is speci(cid:12)ed in ITU-T Recommendation G.728, \Coding of speech at 16 kbit/s using low-delay
code excited linear prediction".

A G.278 encoder translates 5 consecutive audio samples into a 10-bit codebook index, resulting in
a bit rate of 16 kb/s for audio sampled at 8,000 samples per second. The group of (cid:12)ve consecutive
samples is called a vector. Four consecutive vectors, labeled V1 to V4 (where V1 is to be played
(cid:12)rst by the receiver), build one G.728 frame. The four vectors of 40 bits are packed into 5 octets,
labeled B1 through B5. B1 shall be placed (cid:12)rst in the RTP packet.

Referring to the (cid:12)gure below, the principle for bit order is \maintenance of bit signi(cid:12)cance". Bits
from an older vector are more signi(cid:12)cant than bits from newer vectors. The MSB of the frame goes
to the MSB of B1 and the LSB of the frame goes to LSB of B5.

1
0

3
2
0
9
0
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
<---V1---><---V2---><---V3---><---V4---> vectors
<--B1--><--B2--><--B3--><--B4--><--B5--> octets
<------------- frame 1 ---------------->

3
0

In particular, B1 contains the eight most signi(cid:12)cant bits of V1, with the MSB of V1 being the MSB
of B1. B2 contains the two least signi(cid:12)cant bits of V1, the more signi(cid:12)cant of the two in its MSB,
and the six most signi(cid:12)cant bits of V2. B1 shall be placed (cid:12)rst in the RTP packet and B5 last.

4.5.6 G729

G729 is speci(cid:12)ed in ITU-T Recommendation G.729, \Coding of speech at 8 kbit/s using conjugate
structure-algebraic code excited linear prediction (CS-ACELP)". A reduced-complexity version of
the G.729 algorithm is speci(cid:12)ed in Annex A to Rec. G.729. The speech coding algorithms in the
main body of G.729 and in G.729 Annex A are fully interoperable with each other, so there is no

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 16]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

need to further distinguish between them. An implementation that signals or accepts use of G729
payload format may implement either G.729 or G.729A unless restricted by additional signaling
speci(cid:12)ed elsewhere related speci(cid:12)cally to the encoding rather than the payload format. The G.729
and G.729 Annex A codecs were optimized to represent speech with high quality, where G.729
Annex A trades some speech quality for an approximate 50% complexity reduction [10]. See the
next Section (4.5.7) for other data rates added in later G.729 Annexes. For all data rates, the
sampling frequency (and RTP timestamp clock rate) is 8,000 Hz.

A voice activity detector (VAD) and comfort noise generator (CNG) algorithm in Annex B of
G.729 is recommended for digital simultaneous voice and data applications and can be used in
conjunction with G.729 or G.729 Annex A. A G.729 or G.729 Annex A frame contains 10 octets,
while the G.729 Annex B comfort noise frame occupies 2 octets. Receivers must accept comfort
noise frames if restriction of their use has not been signaled. The MIME registration for G729 in
RFC 3555 [7] speci(cid:12)es a parameter that may be used with MIME or SDP to restrict the use of
comfort noise frames.

A G729 RTP packet may consist of zero or more G.729 or G.729 Annex A frames, followed by zero
or one G.729 Annex B frames. The presence of a comfort noise frame can be deduced from the
length of the RTP payload. The default packetization interval is 20 ms (two frames), but in some
situations it may be desirable to send 10 ms packets. An example would be a transition from speech
to comfort noise in the (cid:12)rst 10 ms of the packet. For some applications, a longer packetization
interval may be required to reduce the packet rate.

3

2

1

P1

L1

L2

|
|

|
|

|
|

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
|L|
L3
|0|
|
| |0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4|0 1 2 3 4|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7| |0 1 2 3 4|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
|
|
|
|5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2|0 1 2 3|0 1 2|0 1 2 3|0 1 2 3 4|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
GB2 |
|
|
|
|8 9 0 1 2|0 1 2 3|0 1 2|0 1 2 3|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

| GA1 | GB1 |
|
|

| GA2 |
|
|

|P|
|0|

1 1 1|

1 1 1|

| S2

| S1

|
|

C2

C1

C1

C2

P2

|

Figure 4: G.729 and G.729A bit packing

The transmitted parameters of a G.729/G.729A 10-ms frame, consisting of 80 bits, are de(cid:12)ned in
Recommendation G.729, Table 8/G.729. The mapping of the these parameters is given below in
Fig. 4. The diagrams show the bit packing in \network byte order", also known as big-endian
order. The bits of each 32-bit word are numbered 0 to 31, with the most signi(cid:12)cant bit on the
left and numbered 0. The octets (bytes) of each word are transmitted most signi(cid:12)cant octet (cid:12)rst.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 17]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

The bits of each data (cid:12)eld are numbered in the order as produced by the G.729 C code reference
implementation.

The packing of the G.729 Annex B comfort noise frame is shown in Fig. 5.

1

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
GAIN |R|
| LSF2 |
|L| LSF1
|E|
|
|
|S|
|F|
|S|
|
|
|0|0 1 2 3 4|0 1 2 3|0 1 2 3 4|V|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

RESV = Reserved (zero)

Figure 5: G.729 Annex B bit packing

4.5.7 G729D and G729E

Annexes D and E to ITU-T Recommendation G.729 provide additional data rates. Because the
data rate is not signaled in the bitstream, the di(cid:11)erent data rates are given distinct RTP encoding
names which are mapped to distinct payload type numbers. G729D indicates a 6.4 kbit/s coding
mode (G.729 Annex D, for momentary reduction in channel capacity), while G729E indicates an
11.8 kbit/s mode (G.729 Annex E, for improved performance with a wide range of narrow-band
input signals, e.g., music and background noise). Annex E has two operating modes, backward
adaptive and forward adaptive, which are signaled by the (cid:12)rst two bits in each frame (the most
signi(cid:12)cant two bits of the (cid:12)rst octet).

The voice activity detector (VAD) and comfort noise generator (CNG) algorithm speci(cid:12)ed in Annex
B of G.729 may be used with Annex D and Annex E frames in addition to G.729 and G.729 Annex
A frames. The algorithm details for the operation of Annexes D and E with the Annex B CNG
are speci(cid:12)ed in G.729 Annexes F and G. Note that Annexes F and G do not introduce any new
encodings. Receivers must accept comfort noise frames if restriction of their use has not been
signaled. The MIME registrations for G729D and G729E in RFC 3555 [7] specify a parameter that
may be used with MIME or SDP to restrict the use of comfort noise frames.

For G729D, an RTP packet may consist of zero or more G.729 Annex D frames, followed by zero
or one G.729 Annex B frame. Similarly, for G729E, an RTP packet may consist of zero or more
G.729 Annex E frames, followed by zero or one G.729 Annex B frame. The presence of a comfort
noise frame can be deduced from the length of the RTP payload.

A single RTP packet must contain frames of only one data rate, optionally followed by one comfort
noise frame. The data rate may be changed from packet to packet by changing the payload type
number. G.729 Annexes D, E and H describe what the encoding and decoding algorithms must do
to accommodate a change in data rate.

For G729D, the bits of a G.729 Annex D frame are formatted as shown below in Fig. 6 (cf. Table
D.1/G.729). The frame length is 64 bits.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 18]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

3

2

1

L1

L2

|
|

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
|L|
L3
|0|
|
| |0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4|0 1 2 3 4|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|0 1 2 3 4 5|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|S2 | GA2 | GB2 |
| C1 |S1 | GA1 | GB1 | P2
|
|
|
|6 7 8|0 1|0 1 2|0 1 2|0 1 2 3|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8|0 1|0 1 2|0 1 2|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

|
|

|
|

|
|

|
|

P1

C1

C2

|

|

|

|

|

|

Figure 6: G.729 Annex D bit packing

The net bit rate for the G.729 Annex E algorithm is 11.8 kbit/s and a total of 118 bits are used.
Two bits are appended as \donŌĆÖt care" bits to complete an integer number of octets for the frame.
For G729E, the bits of a data frame are formatted as shown in the next two diagrams (cf. Table
E.1/G.729). The (cid:12)elds for the G729E forward adaptive mode are packed as shown in Fig. 7.

3

2

1

P1

L3

L2

L1

|
|

|
|

|
|

|
|

C2_1

C1_1

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|P| C0_1|
|0 0|L|
|
|0|
|0|
|
|
| |0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4|0 1 2 3 4|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7| |0 1 2|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
|
|
|
|3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
| GA1 | GB1 |
|
|
|
|0 1 2|0 1 2 3|0 1 2 3 4|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4 5|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|DC |
| |
| |
|
|
|6|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2|0 1 2 3|0 1|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

| GA2 | GB2
|

C4_2

C3_2

C0_2

C3_1

C2_2

C4_1

C1_2

|
|

|
|

|
|

|
|

|
|

|
|

|
|

P2

|

|

Figure 7: G.729 Annex E (forward adaptive mode) bit packing

The (cid:12)elds for the G729E backward adaptive mode are packed as shown in Fig. 8.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 19]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

3

2

1

P1

C1_1

|P|
|0|

|
1 1 1|

| C3_1
|

| C2_1
|

0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
|1 1|
C0_1
|
|
|
|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|0|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7|
|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|P2 |
| C4_1
|
|
|
|
|
|8 9|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2|0 1 2 3|0 1|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
|
|
|
1 1 1|
|
|2 3 4|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2|0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9|0 1 2 3 4 5|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|DC |
| |
|
|
| |
|6|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2 3 4 5 6|0 1 2|0 1 2 3|0 1|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

| GA2 | GB2
|

|GA1 | GB1
|

C0_2

C4_2

C3_2

C2_2

C1_2

|
|

|
|

|
|

|

|

Figure 8: G.729 Annex E (backward adaptive mode) bit packing

4.5.8 GSM

GSM (Group Speciale Mobile) denotes the European GSM 06.10 standard for full-rate speech
transcoding, ETS 300 961, which is based on RPE/LTP (residual pulse excitation/long term pre-
diction) coding at a rate of 13 kb/s [11, 12, 13]. The text of the standard can be obtained from:

ETSI (European Telecommunications Standards Institute)
ETSI Secretariat: B.P.152
F-06561 Valbonne Cedex
France
Phone: +33 92 94 42 00
Fax: +33 93 65 47 16

Blocks of 160 audio samples are compressed into 33 octets, for an e(cid:11)ective data rate of 13,200 b/s.

4.5.8.1 General Packaging Issues

The GSM standard (ETS 300 961) speci(cid:12)es the bit stream produced by the codec, but does not
specify how these bits should be packed for transmission. The packetization speci(cid:12)ed here has
subsequently been adopted in ETSI Technical Speci(cid:12)cation TS 101 318. Some software implemen-
tations of the GSM codec use a di(cid:11)erent packing than that speci(cid:12)ed here.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 20]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

(cid:12)eld (cid:12)eld name bits (cid:12)eld (cid:12)eld name bits
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38

LARc[0]
LARc[1]
LARc[2]
LARc[3]
LARc[4]
LARc[5]
LARc[6]
LARc[7]
Nc[0]
bc[0]
Mc[0]
xmaxc[0]
xmc[0]
xmc[1]
xmc[2]
xmc[3]
xmc[4]
xmc[5]
xmc[6]
xmc[7]
xmc[8]
xmc[9]
xmc[10]
xmc[11]
xmc[12]
Nc[1]
bc[1]
Mc[1]
xmaxc[1]
xmc[13]
xmc[14]
xmc[15]
xmc[16]
xmc[17]
xmc[18]
xmc[19]
xmc[20]
xmc[21]

xmc[22]
xmc[23]
xmc[24]
xmc[25]
Nc[2]
bc[2]
Mc[2]
xmaxc[2]
xmc[26]
xmc[27]
xmc[28]
xmc[29]
xmc[30]
xmc[31]
xmc[32]
xmc[33]
xmc[34]
xmc[35]
xmc[36]
xmc[37]
xmc[38]
Nc[3]
bc[3]
Mc[3]
xmaxc[3]
xmc[39]
xmc[40]
xmc[41]
xmc[42]
xmc[43]
xmc[44]
xmc[45]
xmc[46]
xmc[47]
xmc[48]
xmc[49]
xmc[50]
xmc[51]

39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76

3
3
3
3
7
2
2
6
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
7
2
2
6
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3

6
6
5
5
4
4
3
3
7
2
2
6
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
7
2
2
6
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3

Table 2: Ordering of GSM variables

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 21]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

Bit 5

Bit 4

Bit 7

Bit 6

Bit 2
0

Bit 3
1

Bit 0
1

Bit 1
1

Octet
LARc0.0 LARc0.1 LARc0.2 LARc0.3
0
1 LARc0.4 LARc0.5 LARc1.0 LARc1.1 LARc1.2 LARc1.3 LARc1.4 LARc1.5
2 LARc2.0 LARc2.1 LARc2.2 LARc2.3 LARc2.4 LARc3.0 LARc3.1 LARc3.2
3 LARc3.3 LARc3.4 LARc4.0 LARc4.1 LARc4.2 LARc4.3 LARc5.0 LARc5.1
4 LARc5.2 LARc5.3 LARc6.0 LARc6.1 LARc6.2 LARc7.0 LARc7.1 LARc7.2
Nc0.0
5
bc0.1
6
xmaxc05
7
xmc2.1
8
xmc5.0
9
xmc7.2
10
xmc10.1
11
Nc1.0
12
bc1.1
13
xmax15
14
xmc15.1
15
xmc18.0
16
xmc20.2
17
xmc23.1
18
Nc2.0
19
bc2.1
20
xmaxc25
21
xmc28.1
22
xmc31.0
23
24
xmc33.2
25 Xmc36.1
26
27
28
29
30
31
32

Nc0.6
xmaxc03
xmc1.2
xmc4.1
xmc7.0
xmc9.2
xmc12.1
Nc1.6
xmaxc13
xmc14.2
xmc17.1
xmc20.0
xmc22.2
xmc25.1
Nc2.6
xmaxc23
xmc27.2
xmc30.1
xmc33.0
xmc35.2
xmc38.1
Nc3.6
xmaxc33
xmc40.2
xmc43.1
xmc46.0
xmc48.2
xmc51.1

Nc0.5
xmaxc02
xmc1.1
xmc4.0
xmc6.2
xmc9.1
xmc12.0
Nc1.5
xmaxc12
xmc14.1
xmc17.0
xmc19.2
xmc22.1
xmc25.0
Nc2.5
xmaxc22
xmc27.1
xmc30.0
xmc32.2
xmc35.1
xmc38.0
Nc3.5
xmaxc32
xmc40.1
xmc43.0
xmc45.2
xmc48.1
xmc51.0

Nc0.4
xmaxc01
xmc1.0
xmc3.2
xmc6.1
xmc9.0
xmc11.2
Nc1.4
xmaxc11
xmc14.0
xmc16.2
xmc19.1
xmc22.0
xmc24.2
Nc2.4
xmaxc21
xmc27.0
xmc29.2
xmc32.1
xmc35.0
xmc37.2
Nc3.4
xmaxc31
xmc40.0
xmc42.2
xmc45.1
xmc48.0
xmc50.2

Nc0.3
xmaxc00
xmc0.2
xmc3.1
xmc6.0
xmc8.2
xmc11.1
Nc1.3
xmaxc10
xmc13.2
xmc16.1
xmc19.0
xmc21.2
xmc24.1
Nc2.3
xmaxc20
xmc26.2
xmc29.1
xmc32.0
xmc34.2
xmc37.1
Nc3.3
xmaxc30
xmc39.2
xmc42.1
xmc45.0
xmc47.2
xmc50.1

bc0.0
xmaxc04
xmc2.0
xmc4.2
xmc7.1
xmc10.0
xcm12.2
bc1.0
xmaxc14
xmc15.0
xmc17.2
xmc20.1
xmc23.0
xmc25.2
bc2.0
xmaxc24
xmc28.0
xmc30.2
xmc33.1
xmc36.0
xmc38.2
bc3.0
xmaxc34
xmc41.0
xmc43.2
xmc46.1
xmc49.0
xmc51.2

Nc0.2
Mc0.1
xmc0.1
xmc3.0
xmc5.2
xmc8.1
xmc11.0
Nc1.2
Mc1.1
xmc13.1
xmc16.0
xmc18.2
xmc21.1
xmc24.0
Nc2.2
Mc2.1
xmc26.1
xmc29.0
xmc31.2
xmc34.1
xmc37.0
Nc3.2
Mc3.1
xmc39.1
xmc42.0
xmc44.2
xmc47.1
xmc50.0

Nc0.1
Mc0.0
xmc0.0
xmc2.2
xmc5.1
xmc8.0
xmc10.2
Nc1.1
Mc1.0
xmc13.0
xmc15.2
xmc18.1
xmc21.0
xmc23.2
Nc2.1
Mc2.0
xmc26.0
xmc28.2
xmc31.1
xmc34.0
xmc36.2
Nc3.1
Mc3.0
xmc39.0
xmc41.2
xmc44.1
xmc47.0
xmc49.2

Nc3.0
bc3.1
xmaxc35
xmc41.1
xmc44.0
xmc46.2
xmc49.1

Table 3: GSM payload format

In the GSM packing used by RTP, the bits shall be packed beginning from the most signi(cid:12)cant
bit. Every 160 sample GSM frame is coded into one 33 octet (264 bit) bu(cid:11)er. Every such bu(cid:11)er
begins with a 4 bit signature (0xD), followed by the MSB encoding of the (cid:12)elds of the frame. The
(cid:12)rst octet thus contains 1101 in the 4 most signi(cid:12)cant bits (0-3) and the 4 most signi(cid:12)cant bits of
F1 (0-3) in the 4 least signi(cid:12)cant bits (4-7). The second octet contains the 2 least signi(cid:12)cant bits
of F1 in bits 0-1, and F2 in bits 2-7, and so on. The order of the (cid:12)elds in the frame is described in
Table 2.

4.5.8.2 GSM Variable Names and Numbers

In the RTP encoding we have the bit pattern described in Table 3, where F.i signi(cid:12)es the ith bit
of the (cid:12)eld F, bit 0 is the most signi(cid:12)cant bit, and the bits of every octet are numbered from 0 to

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 22]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

7 from most to least signi(cid:12)cant.

4.5.9 GSM-EFR

GSM-EFR denotes GSM 06.60 enhanced full rate speech transcoding, speci(cid:12)ed in ETS 300 726
which is available from ETSI at the address given in Section 4.5.8. This codec has a frame length
of 244 bits. For transmission in RTP, each codec frame is packed into a 31 octet (248 bit) bu(cid:11)er
beginning with a 4-bit signature 0xC in a manner similar to that speci(cid:12)ed here for the original
GSM 06.10 codec. The packing is speci(cid:12)ed in ETSI Technical Speci(cid:12)cation TS 101 318.

4.5.10 L8

L8 denotes linear audio data samples, using 8-bits of precision with an o(cid:11)set of 128, that is, the
most negative signal is encoded as zero.

4.5.11 L16

L16 denotes uncompressed audio data samples, using 16-bit signed representation with 65,535
equally divided steps between minimum and maximum signal level, ranging from -32,768 to 32,767.
The value is represented in twoŌĆÖs complement notation and transmitted in network byte order (most
signi(cid:12)cant byte (cid:12)rst).

The MIME registration for L16 in RFC 3555 [7] speci(cid:12)es parameters that MAY be used with MIME
or SDP to indicate that analog pre-emphasis was applied to the signal before quantization or to
indicate that a multiple-channel audio stream follows a di(cid:11)erent channel ordering convention than
is speci(cid:12)ed in Section 4.1.

4.5.12 LPC

LPC designates an experimental linear predictive encoding contributed by Ron Frederick, which
is based on an implementation written by Ron Zuckerman posted to the Usenet group comp.dsp
on June 26, 1992. The codec generates 14 octets for every frame. The framesize is set to 20 ms,
resulting in a bit rate of 5,600 b/s.

4.5.13 MPA

MPA denotes MPEG-1 or MPEG-2 audio encapsulated as elementary streams. The encoding
is de(cid:12)ned in ISO standards ISO/IEC 11172-3 and 13818-3. The encapsulation is speci(cid:12)ed in
RFC 2250 [14].

The encoding may be at any of three levels of complexity, called Layer I, II and III. The selected
layer as well as the sampling rate and channel count are indicated in the payload. The RTP
timestamp clock rate is always 90,000, independent of the sampling rate. MPEG-1 audio supports
sampling rates of 32, 44.1, and 48 kHz (ISO/IEC 11172-3, section 1.1; \Scope"). MPEG-2 supports

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 23]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

sampling rates of 16, 22.05 and 24 kHz. The number of samples per frame is (cid:12)xed, but the frame
size will vary with the sampling rate and bit rate.

The MIME registration for MPA in RFC 3555 [7] speci(cid:12)es parameters that MAY be used with
MIME or SDP to restrict the selection of layer, channel count, sampling rate, and bit rate.

4.5.14 PCMA and PCMU

PCMA and PCMU are speci(cid:12)ed in ITU-T Recommendation G.711. Audio data is encoded as eight
bits per sample, after logarithmic scaling. PCMU denotes mu-law scaling, PCMA A-law scaling.
A detailed description is given by Jayant and Noll [15]. Each G.711 octet shall be octet-aligned
in an RTP packet. The sign bit of each G.711 octet shall correspond to the most signi(cid:12)cant bit
of the octet in the RTP packet (i.e., assuming the G.711 samples are handled as octets on the host
machine, the sign bit shall be the most signi(cid:12)cant bit of the octet as de(cid:12)ned by the host machine
format). The 56 kb/s and 48 kb/s modes of G.711 are not applicable to RTP, since PCMA and
PCMU must always be transmitted as 8-bit samples.

See Section 4.1 regarding silence suppression.

4.5.15 QCELP

The Electronic Industries Association (EIA) & Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA)
standard IS-733, \TR45: High Rate Speech Service Option for Wideband Spread Spectrum Com-
munications Systems", de(cid:12)nes the QCELP audio compression algorithm for use in wireless CDMA
applications. The QCELP CODEC compresses each 20 milliseconds of 8,000 Hz, 16-bit sampled
input speech into one of four di(cid:11)erent size output frames: Rate 1 (266 bits), Rate 1/2 (124 bits),
Rate 1/4 (54 bits) or Rate 1/8 (20 bits). For typical speech patterns, this results in an average
output of 6.8 kb/s for normal mode and 4.7 kb/s for reduced rate mode. The packetization of the
QCELP audio codec is described in [16].

4.5.16 RED

The redundant audio payload format \RED" is speci(cid:12)ed by RFC 2198 [17]. It de(cid:12)nes a means by
which multiple redundant copies of an audio packet may be transmitted in a single RTP stream.
Each packet in such a stream contains, in addition to the audio data for that packetization interval,
a (more heavily compressed) copy of the data from a previous packetization interval. This allows an
approximation of the data from lost packets to be recovered upon decoding of a subsequent packet,
giving much improved sound quality when compared with silence substitution for lost packets.

4.5.17 VDVI

VDVI is a variable-rate version of DVI4, yielding speech bit rates of between 10 and 25 kb/s.
It is speci(cid:12)ed for single-channel operation only. Samples are packed into octets starting at the
most-signi(cid:12)cant bit. The last octet is padded with 1 bits if the last sample does not (cid:12)ll the last

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 24]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

octet. This padding is distinct from the valid codewords. The receiver needs to detect the padding
because there is no explicit count of samples in the packet.

It uses the following encoding:

DVI4 codeword VDVI bit pattern

0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15

00
010
1100
11100
111100
1111100
11111100
11111110
10
011
1101
11101
111101
1111101
11111101
11111111

5. Video

The following sections describe the video encodings that are de(cid:12)ned in this memo and give their
abbreviated names used for identi(cid:12)cation. These video encodings and their payload types are listed
in Table 5.

All of these video encodings use an RTP timestamp frequency of 90,000 Hz, the same as the MPEG
presentation time stamp frequency. This frequency yields exact integer timestamp increments for
the typical 24 (HDTV), 25 (PAL), and 29.97 (NTSC) and 30 Hz (HDTV) frame rates and 50,
59.94 and 60 Hz (cid:12)eld rates. While 90 kHz is the recommended rate for future video encodings
used within this pro(cid:12)le, other rates may be used. However, it is not su(cid:14)cient to use the video
frame rate (typically between 15 and 30 Hz) because that does not provide adequate resolution for
typical synchronization requirements when calculating the RTP timestamp corresponding to the
NTP timestamp in an RTCP SR packet. The timestamp resolution must also be su(cid:14)cient for the
jitter estimate contained in the receiver reports.

For most of these video encodings, the RTP timestamp encodes the sampling instant of the video
image contained in the RTP data packet.
If a video image occupies more than one packet, the
timestamp is the same on all of those packets. Packets from di(cid:11)erent video images are distinguished
by their di(cid:11)erent timestamps.
Most of these video encodings also specify that the marker bit of the RTP header should be set to
one in the last packet of a video frame and otherwise set to zero. Thus, it is not necessary to wait
for a following packet with a di(cid:11)erent timestamp to detect that a new frame should be displayed.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 25]

RFC 3551

5.1 CelB

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

The CELL-B encoding is a proprietary encoding proposed by Sun Microsystems. The byte stream
format is described in RFC 2029 [18].

5.2 JPEG

The encoding is speci(cid:12)ed in ISO Standards 10918-1 and 10918-2. The RTP payload format is as
speci(cid:12)ed in RFC 2435 [19].

5.3 H261

The encoding is speci(cid:12)ed in ITU-T Recommendation H.261, \Video codec for audiovisual services
at p x 64 kbit/s". The packetization and RTP-speci(cid:12)c properties are described in RFC 2032 [20].

5.4 H263

The encoding is speci(cid:12)ed in the 1996 version of ITU-T Recommendation H.263, \Video coding
for low bit rate communication". The packetization and RTP-speci(cid:12)c properties are described in
RFC 2190 [21]. The H263-1998 payload format is recommended over this one for use by new
implementations.

5.5 H263-1998

The encoding is speci(cid:12)ed in the 1998 version of ITU-T Recommendation H.263, \Video coding
for low bit rate communication". The packetization and RTP-speci(cid:12)c properties are described in
RFC 2429 [22]. Because the 1998 version of H.263 is a superset of the 1996 syntax, this payload
format can also be used with the 1996 version of H.263, and is recommended for this use by new
implementations. This payload format does not replace RFC 2190, which continues to be used by
existing implementations, and may be required for backward compatibility in new implementations.
Implementations using the new features of the 1998 version of H.263 must use the payload format
described in RFC 2429.

5.6 MPV

MPV designates the use of MPEG-1 and MPEG-2 video encoding elementary streams as speci(cid:12)ed
in ISO Standards ISO/IEC 11172 and 13818-2, respectively. The RTP payload format is as speci(cid:12)ed
in RFC 2250 [14], Section 3.

The MIME registration for MPV in RFC 3555 [7] speci(cid:12)es a parameter that MAY be used with
MIME or SDP to restrict the selection of the type of MPEG video.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 26]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

5.7 MP2T

MP2T designates the use of MPEG-2 transport streams, for either audio or video. The RTP
payload format is described in RFC 2250 [14], Section 2.

5.8 nv

The encoding is implemented in the program ŌĆśnvŌĆÖ, version 4, developed at Xerox PARC by Ron
Frederick. Further information is available from the author:

Ron Frederick
Blue Coat Systems Inc.
650 Almanor Avenue
Sunnyvale, CA 94085
United States

EMail: ronf@bluecoat.com

6. Payload Type De’¼ünitions

Tables 4 and 5 de(cid:12)ne this pro(cid:12)leŌĆÖs static payload type values for the PT (cid:12)eld of the RTP data
header. In addition, payload type values in the range 96-127 may be de(cid:12)ned dynamically through
a conference control protocol, which is beyond the scope of this document. For example, a session
directory could specify that for a given session, payload type 96 indicates PCMU encoding, 8,000
Hz sampling rate, 2 channels. Entries in Tables 4 and 5 with payload type \dyn" have no static
payload type assigned and are only used with a dynamic payload type. Payload type 2 was assigned
to G721 in RFC 1890 and to its equivalent successor G726-32 in draft versions of this speci(cid:12)cation,
but its use is now deprecated and that static payload type is marked reserved due to con’¼éicting use
for the payload formats G726-32 and AAL2-G726-32 (see Section 4.5.4). Payload type 13 indicates
the Comfort Noise (CN) payload format speci(cid:12)ed in RFC 3389 [9]. Payload type 19 is marked
\reserved" because some draft versions of this speci(cid:12)cation assigned that number to an earlier
version of the comfort noise payload format. The payload type range 72-76 is marked \reserved"
so that RTCP and RTP packets can be reliably distinguished (see Section \Summary of Protocol
Constants" of the RTP protocol speci(cid:12)cation).

The payload types currently de(cid:12)ned in this pro(cid:12)le are assigned to exactly one of three categories
or media types: audio only, video only and those combining audio and video. The media types
are marked in Tables 4 and 5 as \A", \V" and \AV", respectively. Payload types of di(cid:11)erent
media types shall not be interleaved or multiplexed within a single RTP session, but multiple
RTP sessions may be used in parallel to send multiple media types. An RTP source may change
payload types within the same media type during a session. See the section \Multiplexing RTP
Sessions" of RFC 3550 for additional explanation.

Session participants agree through mechanisms beyond the scope of this speci(cid:12)cation on the set of
payload types allowed in a given session. This set may, for example, be de(cid:12)ned by the capabilities

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 27]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

PT encoding

media type

name
PCMU
reserved
reserved
GSM
G723
DVI4
DVI4
LPC
PCMA
G722
L16
L16
QCELP
CN

A
0
A
1
A
2
A
3
A
4
A
5
A
6
A
7
A
8
A
9
A
10
A
11
A
12
A
13
A
14 MPA
A
G728
15
A
DVI4
16
A
DVI4
17
A
G729
18
reserved
19
A
unassigned A
20
unassigned A
21
unassigned A
22
unassigned A
23
A
dyn G726-40
A
dyn G726-32
A
dyn G726-24
A
dyn G726-16
A
dyn G729D
A
dyn G729E
dyn GSM-EFR A
A
dyn L8
A
dyn RED
A
dyn VDVI

clock rate
(Hz)
8,000

channels

1

8,000
8,000
8,000
16,000
8,000
8,000
8,000
44,100
44,100
8,000
8,000
90,000
8,000
11,025
22,050
8,000

8,000
8,000
8,000
8,000
8,000
8,000
8,000
var.

var.

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
1
1
1
(see text)
1
1
1
1

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
var.
(see text)
1

Table 4: Payload types (PT) for audio encodings

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 28]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

PT

24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35-71
72-76
77-95
96-127
dyn

media type

encoding
name
unassigned V
V
CelB
JPEG
V
unassigned V
nv
V
unassigned V
unassigned V
V
H261
V
MPV
AV
MP2T
V
H263
unassigned ?
reserved
unassigned ?
?
dynamic
H263-1998 V

N/A

clock rate
(Hz)

90,000
90,000

90,000

90,000
90,000
90,000
90,000

N/A

90,000

Table 5: Payload types (PT) for video and combined encodings

of the applications used, negotiated by a conference control protocol or established by agreement
between the human participants.
Audio applications operating under this pro(cid:12)le should, at a minimum, be able to send and/or
receive payload types 0 (PCMU) and 5 (DVI4). This allows interoperability without format nego-
tiation and ensures successful negotiation with a conference control protocol.

7. RTP over TCP and Similar Byte Stream Protocols

Under special circumstances, it may be necessary to carry RTP in protocols o(cid:11)ering a byte stream
abstraction, such as TCP, possibly multiplexed with other data. The application must de(cid:12)ne its
own method of delineating RTP and RTCP packets (RTSP [23] provides an example of such an
encapsulation speci(cid:12)cation).

8. Port Assignment

As speci(cid:12)ed in the RTP protocol de(cid:12)nition, RTP data should be carried on an even UDP port
number and the corresponding RTCP packets should be carried on the next higher (odd) port
number.
Applications operating under this pro(cid:12)le may use any such UDP port pair. For example, the port
pair may be allocated randomly by a session management program. A single (cid:12)xed port number

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 29]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

pair cannot be required because multiple applications using this pro(cid:12)le are likely to run on the
same host, and there are some operating systems that do not allow multiple processes to use the
same UDP port with di(cid:11)erent multicast addresses.

However, port numbers 5004 and 5005 have been registered for use with this pro(cid:12)le for those
applications that choose to use them as the default pair. Applications that operate under multiple
pro(cid:12)les may use this port pair as an indication to select this pro(cid:12)le if they are not subject to the
constraint of the previous paragraph. Applications need not have a default and may require that
the port pair be explicitly speci(cid:12)ed. The particular port numbers were chosen to lie in the range
the Unix
above 5000 to accommodate port number allocation practice within some versions of
operating system, where port numbers below 1024 can only be used by privileged processes and
port numbers between 1024 and 5000 are automatically assigned by the operating system.

9. Changes from RFC 1890

This RFC revises RFC 1890. It is mostly backwards-compatible with RFC 1890 except for functions
removed because two interoperable implementations were not found. The additions to RFC 1890
codify existing practice in the use of payload formats under this pro(cid:12)le. Since this pro(cid:12)le may be
used without using any of the payload formats listed here, the addition of new payload formats
in this revision does not a(cid:11)ect backwards compatibility. The changes are listed below, categorized
into functional and non-functional changes.

Functional changes:

ŌĆó Section 11, \IANA Considerations" was added to specify the registration of the name for this
pro(cid:12)le. That appendix also references a new Section 3 \Registering Additional Encodings"
which establishes a policy that no additional registration of static payload types for this pro(cid:12)le
will be made beyond those added in this revision and included in Tables 4 and 5. Instead,
additional encoding names may be registered as MIME subtypes for binding to dynamic
payload types. Non-normative references were added to RFC 3555 [7] where MIME subtypes
for all the listed payload formats are registered, some with optional parameters for use of the
payload formats.

ŌĆó Static payload types 4, 16, 17 and 34 were added to incorporate IANA registrations made
since the publication of RFC 1890, along with the corresponding payload format descriptions
for G723 and H263.

ŌĆó Following working group discussion, static payload types 12 and 18 were added along with
the corresponding payload format descriptions for QCELP and G729. Static payload type
13 was assigned to the Comfort Noise (CN) payload format de(cid:12)ned in RFC 3389. Payload
type 19 was marked reserved because it had been temporarily allocated to an earlier version
of Comfort Noise present in some draft revisions of this document.

ŌĆó The payload format for G721 was renamed to G726-32 following the ITU-T renumbering, and
the payload format description for G726 was expanded to include the -16, -24 and -40 data
rates. Because of confusion regarding draft revisions of this document, some implementations
of these G726 payload formats packed samples into octets starting with the most signi(cid:12)cant bit

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 30]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

rather than the least signi(cid:12)cant bit as speci(cid:12)ed here. To partially resolve this incompatibility,
new payload formats named AAL2-G726-16, -24, -32 and -40 will be speci(cid:12)ed in a separate
document (see note in Section 4.5.4), and use of static payload type 2 is deprecated as
explained in Section 6.

ŌĆó Payload formats G729D and G729E were added following the ITU-T addition of Annexes D
and E to Recommendation G.729. Listings were added for payload formats GSM-EFR, RED,
and H263-1998 published in other documents subsequent to RFC 1890. These additional
payload formats are referenced only by dynamic payload type numbers.

ŌĆó The descriptions of the payload formats for G722, G728, GSM, VDVI were expanded.

ŌĆó The payload format for 1016 audio was removed and its static payload type assignment 1 was

marked \reserved" because two interoperable implementations were not found.

ŌĆó Requirements for congestion control were added in Section 2.

ŌĆó This pro(cid:12)le follows the suggestion in the revised RTP spec that RTCP bandwidth may be
speci(cid:12)ed separately from the session bandwidth and separately for active senders and passive
receivers.

ŌĆó The mapping of a user pass-phrase string into an encryption key was deleted from Section 2

because two interoperable implementations were not found.

ŌĆó The \quadrophonic" sample ordering convention for four-channel audio was removed to elim-

inate an ambiguity as noted in Section 4.1.

Non-functional changes:

ŌĆó In Section 4.1, it is now explicitly stated that silence suppression is allowed for all audio
payload formats. (This has always been the case and derives from a fundamental aspect of
RTPŌĆÖs design and the motivations for packet audio, but was not explicit stated before.) The
use of comfort noise is also explained.

ŌĆó In Section 4.1, the requirement level for setting of the marker bit on the (cid:12)rst packet after
silence for audio was changed from \is" to \should be", and clari(cid:12)ed that the marker bit is
set only when packets are intentionally not sent.

ŌĆó Similarly, text was added to specify that the marker bit should be set to one on the last

packet of a video frame, and that video frames are distinguished by their timestamps.

ŌĆó RFC references are added for payload formats published after RFC 1890.

ŌĆó The security considerations and full copyright sections were added.

ŌĆó According to Peter Hoddie of Apple, only pre-1994 Macintosh used the 22254.54 rate and
none the 11127.27 rate, so the latter was dropped from the discussion of suggested sampling
frequencies.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 31]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

ŌĆó Table 1 was corrected to move some values from the \ms/packet" column to the \default

ms/packet" column where they belonged.

ŌĆó Since the Interactive Multimedia Association ceased operations, an alternate resource was

provided for a referenced IMA document.

ŌĆó A note has been added for G722 to clarify a discrepancy between the actual sampling rate

and the RTP timestamp clock rate.

ŌĆó Small clari(cid:12)cations of the text have been made in several places, some in response to questions

from readers. In particular:

ŌĆō A de(cid:12)nition for \media type" is given in Section 1.1 to allow the explanation of multi-
plexing RTP sessions in Section 6 to be more clear regarding the multiplexing of multiple
media.

ŌĆō The explanation of how to determine the number of audio frames in a packet from the

length was expanded.

ŌĆō More description of the allocation of bandwidth to SDES items is given.

ŌĆō A note was added that the convention for the order of channels speci(cid:12)ed in Section 4.1

may be overridden by a particular encoding or payload format speci(cid:12)cation.

ŌĆō The terms must, should, may, etc. are used as de(cid:12)ned in RFC 2119.

ŌĆó A second author for this document was added.

10. Security Considerations

Implementations using the pro(cid:12)le de(cid:12)ned in this speci(cid:12)cation are subject to the security consider-
ations discussed in the RTP speci(cid:12)cation [1]. This pro(cid:12)le does not specify any di(cid:11)erent security
services. The primary function of this pro(cid:12)le is to list a set of data compression encodings for audio
and video media.

Con(cid:12)dentiality of the media streams is achieved by encryption. Because the data compression
used with the payload formats described in this pro(cid:12)le is applied end-to-end, encryption may be
performed after compression so there is no con’¼éict between the two operations.

A potential denial-of-service threat exists for data encodings using compression techniques that
have non-uniform receiver-end computational load. The attacker can inject pathological datagrams
into the stream which are complex to decode and cause the receiver to be overloaded.

As with any IP-based protocol, in some circumstances a receiver may be overloaded simply by the
receipt of too many packets, either desired or undesired. Network-layer authentication may be used
to discard packets from undesired sources, but the processing cost of the authentication itself may
be too high. In a multicast environment, source pruning is implemented in IGMPv3 (RFC 3376)
[24] and in multicast routing protocols to allow a receiver to select which sources are allowed to
reach it.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 32]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

11.

IANA Considerations

The RTP speci(cid:12)cation establishes a registry of pro(cid:12)le names for use by higher-level control protocols,
such as the Session Description Protocol (SDP), RFC 2327 [6], to refer to transport methods. This
pro(cid:12)le registers the name \RTP/AVP".

Section 3 establishes the policy that no additional registration of static RTP payload types for this
pro(cid:12)le will be made beyond those added in this document revision and included in Tables 4 and
5. IANA may reference that section in declining to accept any additional registration requests. In
Tables 4 and 5, note that types 1 and 2 have been marked reserved and the set of \dyn" payload
types included has been updated. These changes are explained in Sections 6 and 9.

12. References

12.1 Normative References

[1] Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R. and V. Jacobson, \RTP: A Transport Protocol for

Real-Time Applications", RFC 3550, July 2003.

[2] Bradner, S., \Key Words for Use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,

March 1997.

[3] Apple Computer, \Audio Interchange File Format AIFF-C", August 1991.

(also

ftp://ftp.sgi.com/sgi/ai(cid:11)-c.9.26.91.ps.Z).

12.2 Informative References

[4] Braden, R., Clark, D. and S. Shenker, \Integrated Services in the Internet Architecture: an

Overview", RFC 1633, June 1994.

[5] Blake, S., Black, D., Carlson, M., Davies, E., Wang, Z. and W. Weiss, \An Architecture for

Di(cid:11)erentiated Service", RFC 2475, December 1998.

[6] Handley, M. and V. Jacobson, \SDP: Session Description Protocol", RFC 2327, April 1998.

[7] Casner, S. and P. Hoschka, \MIME Type Registration of RTP Payload Types", RFC 3555,

July 2003.

[8] Freed, N., Klensin, J. and J. Postel, \Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part

Four: Registration Procedures", BCP 13, RFC 2048, November 1996.

[9] Zopf, R., \Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) Payload for Comfort Noise (CN)", RFC 3389,

September 2002.

[10] Deleam, D. and J.-P. Petit, \Real-time implementations of the recent ITU-T low bit rate
speech coders on the TI TMS320C54X DSP: results, methodology, and applications", in Proc.
of International Conference on Signal Processing, Technology, and Applications (ICSPAT),
(Boston, Massachusetts), pp. 1656{1660, October 1996.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 33]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

[11] Mouly, M. and M.-B. Pautet, The GSM system for mobile communications. Lassay-les-

Chateaux, France: Europe Media Duplication, 1993.

[12] Degener, J., \Digital Speech Compression", Dr. DobbŌĆÖs Journal, December 1994.

[13] Redl, S., Weber, M. and M. Oliphant, An Introduction to GSM. Boston: Artech House, 1995.

[14] Ho(cid:11)man, D., Fernando, G., Goyal, V. and M. Civanlar, \RTP Payload Format for

MPEG1/MPEG2 Video", RFC 2250, January 1998.

[15] Jayant, N. and P. Noll, Digital Coding of WaveformsŌĆöPrinciples and Applications to Speech

and Video. Englewood Cli(cid:11)s, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, 1984.

[16] McKay, K., \RTP Payload Format for PureVoice(tm) Audio", RFC 2658, August 1999.

[17] Perkins, C., Kouvelas, I., Hodson, O., Hardman, V., Handley, M., Bolot, J.-C., Vega-Garcia,
A. and S. Fosse-Parisis, \RTP Payload for Redundant Audio Data", RFC 2198, September
1997.

[18] Speer, M. and D. Ho(cid:11)man, \RTP Payload Format of SunŌĆÖs CellB Video Encoding", RFC 2029,

October 1996.

[19] Berc, L., Fenner, W., Frederick, R., McCanne, S. and P. Stewart, \RTP Payload Format for

JPEG-Compressed Video", RFC 2435, October 1998.

[20] Turletti, T. and C. Huitema, \RTP Payload Format for H.261 Video Streams", RFC 2032,

October 1996.

[21] Zhu, C., \RTP Payload Format for H.263 Video Streams", RFC 2190, September 1997.

[22] Bormann, C., Cline, L., Deisher, G., Gardos, T., Maciocco, C., Newell, D., Ott, J., Sullivan,
G., Wenger, S. and C. Zhu, \RTP Payload Format for the 1998 Version of ITU-T Rec. H.263
Video (H.263+)", RFC 2429, October 1998.

[23] Schulzrinne, H., Rao, A. and R. Lanphier, \Real Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP)", RFC 2326,

April 1998.

[24] Cain, B., Deering, S., Kouvelas, I., Fenner, B. and A. Thyagarajan, \Internet Group Manage-

ment Protocol, Version 3", RFC 3376, October 2002.

13. Current Locations of Related Resources

Note: Several sections below refer to the ITU-T Software Tool Library (STL). It is available
from the ITU Sales Service, Place des Nations, CH-1211 Geneve 20, Switzerland (also check
http://www.itu.int). The ITU-T STL is covered by a license de(cid:12)ned in ITU-T Recommendation
G.191, ŌĆ£Software tools for speech and audio coding standardizationŌĆØ.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 34]

RFC 3551

DVI4

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

An archived copy of the document IMA Recommended Practices for Enhancing Digital Audio
Compatibility in Multimedia Systems (version 3.0), which describes the IMA ADPCM algorithm,
is available at:

http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~hgs/audio/dvi/

An implementation is available from Jack Jansen at

ftp://ftp.cwi.nl/local/pub/audio/adpcm.shar

G722

An implementation of the G.722 algorithm is available as part of the ITU-T STL, described above.

G723

The reference C code implementation de(cid:12)ning the G.723.1 algorithm and its Annexes A, B, and C
are available as an integral part of Recommendation G.723.1 from the ITU Sales Service, address
listed above. Both the algorithm and C code are covered by a speci(cid:12)c license. The ITU-T Secretariat
should be contacted to obtain such licensing information.

G726

G726 is speci(cid:12)ed in the ITU-T Recommendation G.726, \40, 32, 24, and 16 kb/s Adaptive Di(cid:11)er-
ential Pulse Code Modulation (ADPCM)". An implementation of the G.726 algorithm is available
as part of the ITU-T STL, described above.

G729

The reference C code implementation de(cid:12)ning the G.729 algorithm and its Annexes A through I are
available as an integral part of Recommendation G.729 from the ITU Sales Service, listed above.
Annex I contains the integrated C source code for all G.729 operating modes. The G.729 algorithm
and associated C code are covered by a speci(cid:12)c license. The contact information for obtaining the
license is available from the ITU-T Secretariat.

GSM

A reference implementation was written by Carsten Bormann and Jutta Degener (then at TU
Berlin, Germany). It is available at

http://www.dmn.tzi.org/software/gsm/

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 35]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

Although the RPE-LTP algorithm is not an ITU-T standard, there is a C code implementation
of the RPE-LTP algorithm available as part of the ITU-T STL. The STL implementation is an
adaptation of the TU Berlin version.

LPC

An implementation is available at

ftp://parcftp.xerox.com/pub/net-research/lpc.tar.Z

PCMU, PCMA

An implementation of these algorithms is available as part of the ITU-T STL, described above.

14. Acknowledgments

The comments and careful review of Simao Campos, Richard Cox and AVT Working Group par-
ticipants are gratefully acknowledged. The GSM description was adopted from the IMTC Voice
over IP Forum Service Interoperability Implementation Agreement (January 1997). Fred Burg and
Terry Lyons helped with the G.729 description.

15.

Intellectual Property Rights Statement

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any intellectual property or other
rights that might be claimed to pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
this document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or might not be available;
neither does it represent that it has made any e(cid:11)ort to identify any such rights. Information on the
IETFŌĆÖs procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and standards-related documentation
can be found in BCP-11. Copies of claims of rights made available for publication and any assur-
ances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general license
or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by implementors or users of this speci(cid:12)cation
can be obtained from the IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any copyrights, patents or patent
applications, or other proprietary rights which may cover technology that may be required to
practice this standard. Please address the information to the IETF Executive Director.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 36]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

16. AuthorsŌĆÖ Addresses

Henning Schulzrinne
Department of Computer Science
Columbia University
1214 Amsterdam Avenue
New York, NY 10027
United States

EMail: schulzrinne@cs.columbia.edu

Stephen L. Casner
Packet Design
3400 Hillview Avenue, Building 3
Palo Alto, CA 94304
United States

EMail: casner@acm.org

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 37]

RFC 3551

RTP A/V Pro(cid:12)le

July 2003

17. Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003). All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to others, and derivative works
that comment on or otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied,
published and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the
above copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all such copies and derivative works.
However, this document itself may not be modi(cid:12)ed in any way, such as by removing the copyright
notice or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations, except as needed for
the purpose of developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for copyrights de(cid:12)ned
in the Internet Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into languages
other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be revoked by the Internet Society
or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an \AS IS" basis and THE
INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS
ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY
WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE
ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Acknowledgement

Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the Internet Society.

Schulzrinne & Casner

Standards Track

[Page 38]

