Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8982
Standards Track
February 2021
2070-1721
M. Loﬀredo
IIT-CNR/Registro.it

M. Martinelli
IIT-CNR/Registro.it

RFC 8982
Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Partial
Response

Abstract

The Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) does not include capabilities to request partial
responses. Servers will only return full responses that include all of the information that a client
is authorized to receive. A partial response capability that limits the amount of information
returned, especially in the case of search queries, could bring beneﬁts to both clients and servers.
This document describes an RDAP query extension that allows clients to specify their preference
for obtaining a partial response.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8982

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Loﬀredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8982

RDAP Partial Response

February 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.  RDAP Path Segment Speciﬁcation

2.1.  Subsetting Metadata

2.1.1.  RDAP Conformance

2.1.2.  Representing Subsetting Links

3.  Dealing with Relationships

4.  Basic Field Sets

5.  Negative Answers

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Approaches to Partial Response Implementation

A.1.  Speciﬁc Issues Raised by RDAP

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[REST]
The use of partial responses in RESTful API
simple: instead of returning objects in API responses with all data ﬁelds, only a subset of the
ﬁelds in each result object is returned. The beneﬁt is obvious: less data transferred over the
network means less bandwidth usage, faster server responses, less CPU time spent both on the
server and the client, and less memory usage on the client.

 design is very common. The rationale is quite

Loﬀredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8982

RDAP Partial Response

February 2021

Currently, RDAP does not provide a client with any way to request a partial response. Servers can
[RFC7483]
only provide the client with a full response
information returned in a response based on a client's preferences, and this creates
ineﬃciencies.

. Servers cannot limit the amount of

The protocol described in this speciﬁcation extends RDAP search capabilities to enable partial
responses through the provisioning of predeﬁned sets of ﬁelds that clients can submit to an
RDAP service by adding a new query parameter. The service is implemented using the Hypertext
Transfer Protocol (HTTP)

 and the conventions described in

[RFC7480]

[RFC7230]

.

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  RDAP Path Segment Speciﬁcation

OPTIONAL

[RFC7482]

. This document deﬁnes an RDAP query parameter, "ﬁeldSet", whose value is

The path segment deﬁned in this section is an
deﬁned in
a non-empty string identifying a server-deﬁned set of ﬁelds returned in place of the full
response. The ﬁeld sets supported by a server are usually described in out-of-band documents
(e.g., RDAP proﬁle) together with other features. Moreover, this document deﬁnes in Section 2.1
an in-band mechanism by means of which servers can provide clients with basic information
about the supported ﬁeld sets.

 extension of search path segments

The following is an example of an RDAP query including the "ﬁeldSet" parameter:

https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com&fieldSet=afieldset

This solution can be implemented by RDAP providers with less eﬀort than ﬁeld selection and is
easily requested by clients. The considerations that have led to this solution are described in
more detail in Appendix A.

2.1.  Subsetting Metadata

According to most advanced principles in REST design, collectively known as "Hypermedia as the
[HATEOAS]
, a client entering a REST application through
Engine of Application State" (HATEOAS)
an initial URI should use server-provided links to dynamically discover available actions and
access the resources it needs. In this way, the client is not required to have prior knowledge of
the service nor, consequently, to hard-code the URIs of diﬀerent resources. This allows the server
to make URI changes as the API evolves without breaking clients. Deﬁnitively, a REST service
should be as self-descriptive as possible.

Loﬀredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8982

RDAP Partial Response

February 2021

Therefore, servers implementing the query parameter described in this speciﬁcation
provide additional information in their responses about the available ﬁeld sets. Such
information is collected in a new JSON data structure named "subsetting_metadata" containing
the following properties:

SHOULD

"currentFieldSet": "String" (

REQUIRED

)

either the value of the "ﬁeldSet" parameter as speciﬁed in the query string, or the ﬁeld set
applied by default.

"availableFieldSets": "AvailableFieldSet[]" (

OPTIONAL

)

an array of objects, with each element describing an available ﬁeld set. The AvailableFieldSet
object includes the following members:

"name": "String" (

REQUIRED

)

the ﬁeld set name.

"default": "Boolean" (

REQUIRED

)

indicator of whether the ﬁeld set is applied by default. An RDAP server
one default ﬁeld set.

MUST

 deﬁne only

"description": "String" (

OPTIONAL

)

a human-readable description of the ﬁeld set.

"links": "Link[]" (

OPTIONAL

)

an array of links as described in
ﬁeld set (see Section 2.1.2).

2.1.1.  RDAP Conformance

[RFC8288]

 containing the query string that applies the

Servers returning the "subsetting_metadata" section in their responses
in the rdapConformance array.

MUST

 include "subsetting"

2.1.2.  Representing Subsetting Links

An RDAP server
made references
reference to an alternative to the current view of results identiﬁed by the context URI.

 use the "links" array of the "subsetting_metadata" element to provide ready-
 to the available ﬁeld sets (Figure 1). The target URI in each link is the

MAY
[RFC8288]

The "value", "rel", and "href" JSON values

MUST

 be speciﬁed. All other JSON values are

.
OPTIONAL

Loﬀredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8982

RDAP Partial Response

February 2021

{
  "rdapConformance": [
    "rdap_level_0",
    "subsetting"
  ],
  ...
  "subsetting_metadata": {
    "currentFieldSet": "afieldset",
    "availableFieldSets": [
      {
      "name": "anotherfieldset",
      "description": "Contains some fields",
      "default": false,
      "links": [
        {
        "value": "https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com
                  &fieldSet=afieldset",
        "rel": "alternate",
        "href": "https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com
                 &fieldSet=anotherfieldset",
        "title": "Result Subset Link",
        "type": "application/rdap+json"
        }
      ]
      },
    ...
    ]
  },
  ...
  "domainSearchResults": [
    ...
  ]
}

Figure 1: Example of a "subsetting_metadata" Instance

3.  Dealing with Relationships

Representation of second-level objects within a ﬁeld set produces additional considerations.
Since the representation of the topmost returned objects will vary according to the ﬁeld set in
use, the response may contain no relationships (e.g., for an abbreviated ﬁeld set) or may contain
associated objects as in a normal RDAP query response. Each ﬁeld set can indicate the format of
the additional objects to be returned, in the same manner that the format of the topmost objects
is controlled by the ﬁeld set.

4.  Basic Field Sets

This section deﬁnes three basic ﬁeld sets that servers
interaction with clients:

MAY

 implement to facilitate their

Loﬀredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8982

RDAP Partial Response

February 2021

"id":

The server provides only the key ﬁeld; "handle" for entities, and "ldhName" for domains
and nameservers. If a returned domain or nameserver is an Internationalized Domain Name
(IDN)
 additionally be included in the response.
This ﬁeld set could be used when the client wants to obtain a collection of object identiﬁers
(Figure 2).

, then the "unicodeName" ﬁeld

[RFC5890]

MUST

"brief":

The ﬁeld set contains the ﬁelds that can be included in a "short" response. This ﬁeld set

could be used when the client is asking for a subset of the full response that provides only
basic knowledge of each object.

"full":

The ﬁeld set contains all of the information the server can provide for a particular object.

The "objectClassName" ﬁeld is implicitly included in each of the above ﬁeld sets. RDAP providers
SHOULD
add any property providing service information.

 include a "links" ﬁeld indicating the "self" link relationship. RDAP providers

 also

MAY

Fields included in the "brief" and "full" ﬁeld set responses
access and authorization levels.

MUST

 take into account the user's

Loﬀredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8982

RDAP Partial Response

February 2021

{
  "rdapConformance": [
    "rdap_level_0",
    "subsetting"
  ],
  ...
  "domainSearchResults": [
    {
      "objectClassName": "domain",
      "ldhName": "example1.com",
      "links": [
        {
        "value": "https://example.com/rdap/domain/example1.com",
        "rel": "self",
        "href": "https://example.com/rdap/domain/example1.com",
        "type": "application/rdap+json"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "objectClassName": "domain",
      "ldhName": "example2.com",
      "links": [
        {
        "value": "https://example.com/rdap/domain/example2.com",
        "rel": "self",
        "href": "https://example.com/rdap/domain/example2.com",
        "type": "application/rdap+json"
        }
      ]
    },
    ...
  ]
}

Figure 2: Example of RDAP Response According to the "id" Field Set

5.  Negative Answers

Each request including an empty or unsupported "ﬁeldSet" value
(Bad Request) response code. Optionally, the response
regarding the supported ﬁeld sets in the HTTP entity body (Figure 3).

MAY

MUST

 produce an HTTP 400

 include additional information

Loﬀredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8982

RDAP Partial Response

February 2021

{
    "errorCode": 400,
    "title": "Field set 'unknownfieldset' is not valid",
    "description": [
        "Supported field sets are: 'afieldset', 'anotherfieldset'."
    ]

}

Figure 3: Example of RDAP Error Response Due to an Invalid Field Set Included in the Request

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following value in the "RDAP Extensions" registry:

subsetting

Extension identiﬁer:
Any
Registry operator:
Published speciﬁcation:
Contact:
Intended usage:

IETF <iesg@ietf.org>

RFC 8982

This extension describes a best practice for partial response provisioning.

7.  Security Considerations

A search query typically requires more server resources (such as memory, CPU cycles, and
network bandwidth) when compared to a lookup query. This increases the risk of server
resource exhaustion and subsequent denial of service. This risk can be mitigated by supporting
the return of partial responses combined with other strategies (e.g., restricting search
functionality, limiting the rate of search requests, and truncating and paging results).

Support for partial responses gives RDAP operators the ability to implement data access control
policies based on the HTTP authentication mechanisms described in
. RDAP operators
can vary the information returned in RDAP responses based on a client's access and
authorization levels. For example:

[RFC7481]

•

the list of ﬁelds for each set can diﬀer based on the client's access and authorization levels;

•

the set of available ﬁeld sets could be restricted based on the client's access and
authorization levels.

Servers can also deﬁne diﬀerent result limits according to the available ﬁeld sets, so a more
ﬂexible truncation strategy can be implemented. The new query parameter presented in this
document provides RDAP operators with a way to implement a server that reduces ineﬃciency
risks.

Loﬀredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8982

RDAP Partial Response

February 2021

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5890]

[RFC7230]

[RFC7480]

[RFC7481]

[RFC7482]

[RFC7483]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8288]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Deﬁnitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

.

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
, June 2014,
,
Message Syntax and Routing" RFC 7230 DOI 10.17487/RFC7230
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7230>

.

,

,

,
Newton, A., Ellacott, B., and N. Kong "HTTP Usage in the Registration Data
Access Protocol (RDAP)" RFC 7480 DOI 10.17487/RFC7480
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7480>

, March 2015,

,
.

,

<https://

Hollenbeck, S. and N. Kong "Security Services for the Registration Data Access
,
Protocol (RDAP)" RFC 7481 DOI 10.17487/RFC7481
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7481>

, March 2015,

<https://

,
,

.

Newton, A. and S. Hollenbeck "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query
Format" RFC 7482 DOI 10.17487/RFC7482
editor.org/info/rfc7482>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2015,

,

,

.

,

Newton, A. and S. Hollenbeck "JSON Responses for the Registration Data Access
,
Protocol (RDAP)" RFC 7483 DOI 10.17487/RFC7483
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7483>

, March 2015,

<https://

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,
Nottingham, M. "Web Linking" RFC 8288 DOI 10.17487/RFC8288
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>

,
.

,

, October 2017,

8.2.  Informative References

[CQL]

[HATEOAS]

,

Whitaker, G. "Catnap Query Language Reference" commit d4f402c
2017,
Reference>

<https://github.com/gregwhitaker/catnap/wiki/Catnap-Query-Language-

, September

,

.

Jedrzejewski, B. "HATEOAS - a simple explanation"
www.e4developer.com/2018/02/16/hateoas-simple-explanation/>

, February 2018,

,

.

<https://

Loﬀredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8982

RDAP Partial Response

February 2021

[REST]

,

Fielding, R. "Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-based Software
Architectures" Ph.D. Dissertation, University of California, Irvine
www.ics.uci.edu/~ﬁelding/pubs/dissertation/ﬁelding_dissertation.pdf>

, 2000,
.

,

<https://

Appendix A.  Approaches to Partial Response Implementation

Looking at the implementation experiences of partial responses oﬀered by data providers on the
web, two approaches are observed:

•

the client explicitly describes the data ﬁelds to be returned;

•

the client describes a name identifying a server-deﬁned set of data ﬁelds.

The former is more ﬂexible than the latter because clients can specify all the data ﬁelds they
need. However, it has some drawbacks:

•

Fields have to be declared according to a given syntax. This is a simple task when the data
structure of the object is ﬂat, but it is much more diﬃcult when the object has a tree
structure like that of a JSON object. The presence of arrays and deep nested objects
complicate both the syntax deﬁnition of the query and, consequently, the processing
required on the server side.

•

Clients need to recognize the returned data structure to avoid cases when the requested
ﬁelds are invalid.

•

The request of some ﬁelds might not match the client's access and authorization levels.
Clients might request unauthorized ﬁelds, and servers have to deﬁne a strategy for
responding such as always returning an error response or returning a response that ignores
the unauthorized ﬁelds.

A.1.  Speciﬁc Issues Raised by RDAP

In addition to those listed above, RDAP responses raise some speciﬁc issues:

•

Relevant entity object information is included in a jCard, but such information cannot be
easily selected because it is split into the items of a jagged array.

•

RDAP responses contain some properties providing service information (e.g.,
rdapConformance, links, notices, remarks, etc.), which are not normally selected but are just
as important. They could be returned anyway but, in this case, the server would provide
unrequested data.

It is possible to address these issues. For example, the Catnap Query Language
comprehensive expression language that can be used to customize the JSON response of a
RESTful web service. Application of CQL to RDAP responses would explicitly identify the output
ﬁelds that would be acceptable when a few ﬁelds are requested but it would become very

[CQL]

 is a

Loﬀredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8982

RDAP Partial Response

February 2021

complicated when processing a larger number of ﬁelds. In the following, two CQL expressions
for a domain search query are shown (Figure 4). In the ﬁrst, only objectClassName and ldhName
are requested. In the second, the ﬁelds of a possible WHOIS-like response are listed.

https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com
        &fields=domainSearchResults(objectClassName,ldhName)

https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com
        &fields=domainSearchResults(objectClassName,ldhName,
                unicodeName,
                status,
                events(eventAction,eventDate),
                entities(objectClassName,handle,roles),
                nameservers(objectClassName,ldhName))

Figure 4: Examples of CQL Expressions for a Domain Search Query

The ﬁeld set approach seems to facilitate RDAP interoperability. Servers can deﬁne basic ﬁeld
sets that, if known to clients, can increase the probability of obtaining a valid response. The
usage of ﬁeld sets makes the query string less complex. Moreover, the deﬁnition of predeﬁned
sets of ﬁelds makes it easier to establish result limits.

Finally, considering that there is no real need for RDAP users to have the maximum ﬂexibility in
deﬁning all the possible sets of logically connected ﬁelds (e.g., users interested in domains
usually need to know the status, the creation date, and the expiry date of each domain), the ﬁeld
set approach is preferred.

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to acknowledge
,
Singh Patrick Mevzek Benjamin Kaduk Roman Danyliw Murray Kucherawy Erik Kline
, and
,
Robert Wilton

Scott Hollenbeck Tom Harrison Karl Heinz Wolf Jasdip
,

 for their contribution to this document.

,
,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Mario Loﬀredo
IIT-CNR/Registro.it
Via Moruzzi,1
56124 Pisa
Italy
Email:
URI:

 mario.loﬀredo@iit.cnr.it

 https://www.iit.cnr.it

Loﬀredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8982

RDAP Partial Response

February 2021

Maurizio Martinelli
IIT-CNR/Registro.it
Via Moruzzi,1
56124 Pisa
Italy
Email:
URI:

 https://www.iit.cnr.it

 maurizio.martinelli@iit.cnr.it

Loﬀredo & Martinelli

Standards Track

Page 12

