Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8865
8373
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
C. Holmberg
Ericsson

G. Hellström
Gunnar Hellström Accessible Communication

RFC 8865
T.140 Real-Time Text Conversation over WebRTC
Data Channels

Abstract

This document speciﬁes how a Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) data channel can be
used as a transport mechanism for real-time text using the ITU-T Protocol for multimedia
application text conversation (Recommendation ITU-T T.140) and how the Session Description
Protocol (SDP) oﬀer/answer mechanism can be used to negotiate such a data channel, referred to
as a T.140 data channel. This document updates RFC 8373 to specify its use with WebRTC data
channels.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8865

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions

3.  WebRTC Data Channel Considerations

4.  SDP Considerations

4.1.  Use of the 'dcmap' Attribute

4.2.  Use of the 'dcsa' Attribute

4.2.1.  Maximum Character Transmission Rate

4.2.2.  Real-Time Text Conversation Languages

4.2.3.  Real-Time Text Direction

4.3.  Examples

5.  T.140 Considerations

5.1.  Session-Layer Functions

5.2.  Data Encoding and Sending

5.3.  Data Buﬀering

5.4.  Loss of T140blocks

5.5.  Multi-party Considerations

6.  Gateway Considerations

7.  Update to RFC 8373

8.  Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  Subprotocol Identiﬁer "t140"

9.2.  SDP 'fmtp' Attribute

9.3.  SDP Language Attributes

9.4.  SDP Media Direction Attributes

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The ITU-T Protocol for multimedia application text conversation (Recommendation ITU-T T.140)
 deﬁnes a protocol for text conversation, also known as real-time text. The transport used
[T140]
for IP networks is the "RTP Payload for Text Conversation" mechanism
, based on the
Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP)

[RFC4103]

[RFC3550]

.

This document speciﬁes how a Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) data channel
can be used as a transport mechanism for T.140 and how the Session Description Protocol (SDP)
oﬀer/answer mechanism for data channels
[RFC8864]
channel.

 can be used to negotiate such a data

[RFC8831]

In this document, a T.140 data channel refers to a WebRTC data channel for which the
instantiated subprotocol is "t140" and where the channel is negotiated using the SDP oﬀer/
answer mechanism

[RFC8864]

.

NOTE: The decision to transport real-time text using a WebRTC data channel instead
of using RTP-based transport
text chat during an audio and/or video call with an individual or with multiple
people in a conference"; see

 is motivated by use case "U-C 5: Real-time

.
Section 3.2 of [RFC8831]

[RFC4103]

The brief notation "T.140" is used as a name for the text conversation protocol according to
.
[T140]

Real-time text is intended to be entered by human users via a keyboard, handwriting
recognition, voice recognition, or any other input method. The rate of character entry is usually
at a level of a few characters per second or less.

Section 3 deﬁnes the generic data channel properties for a T.140 data channel, and Section 4
deﬁnes how they are conveyed in an SDP 'dcmap' attribute. While this document deﬁnes how to
, the generic
negotiate a T.140 data channel using the SDP oﬀer/answer mechanism
T.140 and gateway considerations deﬁned in Sections 3, 5, and 6 of this document can also be
applied when a T.140 data channel is established using another mechanism (e.g., the mechanism
deﬁned in
attribute parameters and the protocol parameters used in

 deﬁnes the mapping between the SDP 'dcmap'
[RFC8832]
.

[RFC8832] Section 5 of [RFC8864]

[RFC8864]

).

This document updates
attributes are used for the "application/webrtc-datachannel" media type.

 by deﬁning how the SDP 'hlang-send' and 'hlang-recv'

[RFC8373]

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

2.  Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  WebRTC Data Channel Considerations

The following WebRTC data channel property values

[RFC8831]

 apply to a T.140 data channel:

Subprotocol Identiﬁer

t140

Transmission reliability

reliable

Transmission order

in-order

Label

Table 1

See Section 4.1

NOTE: T.140 requires the transport channel to provide transmission of real-time text
without duplication and in original order. Therefore, T.140 does not specify reliable
and ordered transmission of T.140 data on the application layer. Instead, when RTP-
based transport is used, the RTP sequence number is used to detect packet loss and
out-of-order packets, and a redundancy mechanism is used to achieve reliable
delivery of T.140 data. By using the WebRTC data channel's reliable and in-order
transmission features
redundancy mechanism or a mechanism to detect data loss and out-of-order
delivery at the application level. The latency characteristics of the T.140 data
channel are also regarded as suﬃcient to meet the application requirements of
T.140.

 for the T.140 data channel, there is no need for a

[RFC8831]

4.  SDP Considerations

The generic SDP considerations, including the SDP oﬀer/answer procedures
negotiating a WebRTC data channel are deﬁned in
deﬁne the SDP considerations that are speciﬁc to a T.140 data channel, identiﬁed by the
'subprotocol' attribute parameter, with a "t140" parameter value, in the 'dcmap' attribute.

[RFC8864]

[RFC3264]

. This section, and its subsections,

, for

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

4.1.  Use of the 'dcmap' Attribute

An oﬀerer and answerer
[RFC8864]
Transmission Protocol (SCTP) association

MUST

 in the SDP media description ("m=" section)

[RFC4566]

 describing the Stream Control

, in each oﬀer and answer, include an SDP 'dcmap' attribute

[RFC4960]

 used to realize the T.140 data channel.

The oﬀerer and answerer
parameter value, in the 'dcmap' attribute.

MUST

 include the 'subprotocol' attribute parameter, with a "t140"

The oﬀerer and answerer
MAY
parameter in the 'dcmap' attribute value, as speciﬁed in

.
[RFC8864]

 include the 'priority' attribute parameter and the 'label' attribute

, when a data channel is negotiated using the
NOTE: As speciﬁed in
mechanism deﬁned in
, the 'label' attribute parameter value has to be the
same in both directions. That rule also applies to data channels negotiated using the
mechanism deﬁned in this document.

[RFC8831]
[RFC8832]

The oﬀerer and answerer
the 'dcmap' attribute. If either of those attribute parameters is received in an oﬀer, the answerer
 reject the oﬀer. If either of those attribute parameters is received in an answer, the oﬀerer
MUST

 include the 'max-retr' or 'max-time' attribute parameter in

MUST NOT

MUST NOT
sending a new oﬀer without a T.140 data channel or by terminating the session.

 accept the answer. Instead, the answerer

 take appropriate actions, e.g., by

MUST

If the 'ordered' attribute parameter is included in the 'dcmap' attribute, it
value 'true'.

MUST

 be assigned the

Below is an example of the 'dcmap' attribute for a T.140 data channel with stream id=3 and
without any label:

a=dcmap:3 subprotocol="t140"

4.2.  Use of the 'dcsa' Attribute

An oﬀerer and answerer can, in each oﬀer and answer, include one or more SDP 'dcsa' attributes
[RFC8864]
channel.

 in the "m=" section describing the SCTP association used to realize the T.140 data

If an oﬀerer or answerer receives a 'dcsa' attribute that contains an SDP attribute whose usage
has not been deﬁned for a T.140 data channel, the oﬀerer or answerer should ignore the 'dcsa'
attribute, following the rules in

.
Section 6.7 of [RFC8864]

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

4.2.1.  Maximum Character Transmission Rate

A 'dcsa' attribute can contain the SDP 'fmtp' attribute, which is used to indicate a maximum
. The 'cps' attribute parameter is used to indicate the
character transmission rate
maximum character transmission rate that the endpoint that includes the attribute is able to
receive, and the value is used as a mean value in characters per second over any 10-second
interval.

[RFC4103]

If the 'fmtp' attribute is included, the 'format' attribute parameter value

MUST

 be set to 't140'.

If no 'fmtp' attribute with a 'cps' attribute parameter is included, the default value of 30 applies
.
[RFC4103]

The oﬀerer and answerer
and answers.

MAY

 modify the 'cps' attribute parameter value in subsequent oﬀers

This document does not deﬁne any other usage of the 'fmtp' attribute for a T.140 channel. If an
oﬀerer or answerer receives a 'dcsa' attribute that contains an 'fmtp' attribute that is not set
 ignore the 'dcsa' attribute.
according to the procedure above, the oﬀerer or answerer

MUST

NOTE: The 'cps' attribute parameter is especially useful when a T.140 data channel
endpoint is acting as a gateway (Section 6) and is interworking with a T.140
transport mechanism that has restrictions on how many characters can be sent per
second.

If an endpoint receives text at a higher rate than it can handle, e.g., because the sending endpoint
does not support the 'cps' attribute parameter, it
endpoint that it is not willing to receive more text, using the direction attributes (Section 4.2.3) or
(2) use a ﬂow-control mechanism to reduce the rate. However, in certain applications, e.g.,
emergency services, it is important to regain human interaction as soon as possible, and it might
therefore be more appropriate to simply discard the received overﬂow, insert a mark for loss
[T140ad1]

, and continue to process the received text as soon as possible.

 either (1) indicate to the sending

SHOULD

NOTE: At the time of writing this speciﬁcation, the standardized API for WebRTC
data channels does not support ﬂow control. Should such support be available at
some point, a receiving endpoint might use it in order to slow down the rate of text
received from the sending endpoint.

4.2.2.  Real-Time Text Conversation Languages

'dcsa' attributes can contain the SDP 'hlang-send' and 'hlang-recv' attributes
negotiate the language to be used for the real-time text conversation.

[RFC8373]

 to

For a T.140 data channel, the modality is "written"

[RFC8373]
.

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

4.2.3.  Real-Time Text Direction

'dcsa' attributes can contain the SDP 'sendonly', 'recvonly', 'sendrecv', and 'inactive' attributes
[RFC4566]
conversation.

 to negotiate the direction in which text can be transmitted in a real-time text

NOTE: A WebRTC data channel is always bidirectional. The usage of the 'dcsa'
attribute only aﬀects the direction in which implementations are allowed to
transmit text on a T.140 data channel.

The oﬀer/answer rules for the direction attributes are based on the rules for unicast streams
deﬁned in
attributes.

, as described below. Note that the rules only apply to the direction

[RFC3264]

Session-level direction attributes

[RFC4566]

 have no impact on a T.140 data channel.

4.2.3.1.  Generating an Oﬀer

If the oﬀerer wishes to both send and receive text on a T.140 data channel, it
 mark the
data channel as sendrecv with a 'sendrecv' attribute inside a 'dcsa' attribute. If the oﬀerer does
not explicitly mark the data channel, an implicit 'sendrecv' attribute inside a 'dcsa' attribute is
applied by default.

SHOULD

If the oﬀerer wishes to only send text on a T.140 data channel, it
sendonly with a 'sendonly' attribute inside a 'dcsa' attribute.

MUST

 mark the data channel as

If the oﬀerer wishes to only receive text on a T.140 data channel, it
as recvonly with a 'recvonly' attribute inside a 'dcsa' attribute.

MUST

 mark the data channel

If the oﬀerer wishes to neither send nor receive text on a T.140 data channel, it
data channel as inactive with an 'inactive' attribute inside a 'dcsa' attribute.

MUST

 mark the

If the oﬀerer has marked a data channel as sendrecv (or if the oﬀerer did not explicitly mark the
data channel) or recvonly, it
T.140 data channel allows it.

 be prepared to receive T.140 data as soon as the state of the

MUST

4.2.3.2.  Generating an Answer

When the answerer accepts an oﬀer and marks the direction of the text in the corresponding
answer, the direction is based on the marking (or the lack of explicit marking) in the oﬀer.

If the oﬀerer either explicitly marked the data channel as sendrecv or did not mark the data
channel, the answerer
inactive with a 'sendrecv', 'sendonly', 'recvonly', or 'inactive' attribute, respectively, inside a 'dcsa'
attribute. If the answerer does not explicitly mark the data channel, an implicit 'sendrecv'
attribute inside a 'dcsa' attribute is applied by default.

 mark the data channel as sendrecv, sendonly, recvonly, or

SHOULD

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

 mark the data channel as
If the oﬀerer marked the data channel as sendonly, the answerer
recvonly or inactive with a 'recvonly' or 'inactive' attribute, respectively, inside a 'dcsa' attribute.

MUST

If the oﬀerer marked the data channel as recvonly, the answerer
 mark the data channel as
sendonly or inactive with a 'sendonly' or 'inactive' attribute, respectively, inside a 'dcsa' attribute.

MUST

If the oﬀerer marked the data channel as inactive, the answerer
inactive with an 'inactive' attribute inside a 'dcsa' attribute.

MUST

 mark the data channel as

If the answerer has marked a data channel as sendrecv or recvonly, it
receive data as soon as the state of the T.140 data channel allows transmission of data.

MUST

 be prepared to

4.2.3.3.  Oﬀerer Receiving an Answer

When the oﬀerer receives an answer to the oﬀer and the answerer has marked a data channel as
sendrecv (or the answerer did not mark the data channel) or recvonly in the answer, the oﬀerer
can start sending T.140 data as soon as the state of the T.140 data channel allows it. If the
answerer has marked the data channel as inactive or sendonly, the oﬀerer
T.140 data.

 send any

MUST NOT

If the answerer has not marked the direction of a T.140 data channel in accordance with the
procedures above, it is
 that the oﬀerer not process that scenario as an error
situation but rather assume that the answerer might both send and receive T.140 data on the
data channel.

RECOMMENDED

4.2.3.4.  Modifying the Text Direction

If an endpoint wishes to modify a previously negotiated text direction in an ongoing session, it
MUST
the answerer accepts the oﬀer, it follows the procedures in Section 4.2.3.2.

 initiate an oﬀer that indicates the new direction, following the rules in Section 4.2.3.1. If

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

4.3.  Examples

Below is an example of an "m=" section of an oﬀer for a T.140 data channel oﬀering real-time text
conversation in Spanish and Esperanto, and an "m=" section in the associated answer accepting
Esperanto. The maximum character transmission rate is set to 20. As the oﬀerer and answerer
have not explicitly indicated the real-time text direction, the default direction "sendrecv" applies.

Offer:

   m=application 911 UDP/DTLS/SCTP webrtc-datachannel
   c=IN IP6 2001:db8::3
   a=max-message-size:1000
   a=sctp-port 5000
   a=setup:actpass
   a=dcmap:2 label="ACME customer service";subprotocol="t140"
   a=dcsa:2 fmtp:t140 cps=20
   a=dcsa:2 hlang-send:es eo
   a=dcsa:2 hlang-recv:es eo

Answer:

   m=application 2004 UDP/DTLS/SCTP webrtc-datachannel
   c=IN IP6 2001:db8::1
   a=max-message-size:1000
   a=sctp-port 6000
   a=setup:passive
   a=dcmap:2 label="ACME customer service";subprotocol="t140"
   a=dcsa:2 fmtp:t140 cps=20
   a=dcsa:2 hlang-send:eo
   a=dcsa:2 hlang-recv:eo

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

Below is an example of an "m=" section of an oﬀer for a T.140 data channel where the oﬀerer
wishes to only receive real-time text, and an "m=" section in the associated answer indicating
that the answerer will only send real-time text. No maximum character transmission rate is
indicated. No preference for the language to be used for the real-time text conversation is
indicated.

Offer:

   m=application 1400 UDP/DTLS/SCTP webrtc-datachannel
   c=IN IP6 2001:db8::3
   a=max-message-size:1000
   a=sctp-port 5000
   a=setup:actpass
   a=dcmap:2 label="ACME customer service";subprotocol="t140"
   a=dcsa:2 recvonly

Answer:

   m=application 2400 UDP/DTLS/SCTP webrtc-datachannel
   c=IN IP6 2001:db8::1
   a=max-message-size:1000
   a=sctp-port 6000
   a=setup:passive
   a=dcmap:2 label="ACME customer service";subprotocol="t140"
   a=dcsa:2 sendonly

5.  T.140 Considerations

5.1.  Session-Layer Functions

[T140]

Section 6.1 of
manner that is independent of the signaling protocol. The list below describes how the functions
are realized when using a T.140 data channel.

 describes the generic T.140 session control functions at a high level, in a

Prepare session:

An endpoint can indicate its support of T.140 data channels using signaling-

speciﬁc means (e.g., using SIP OPTIONS
answer (Section 4).

[RFC3261]

) or by indicating the support in an oﬀer or

Initiate session:

An oﬀer is used to request the establishment of a T.140 data channel (Section 4).

Accept session:

An answer is used to accept a request to establish a T.140 data channel (Section

4).

Deny session:

generic procedures for rejecting a data channel

An answer is used to reject a request to establish a T.140 data channel, using the
[RFC8864]

.

Disconnect session:

An oﬀer or answer is used to disable a previously established T.140 data

channel, using the generic procedures for closing a data channel

[RFC8864]

.

Data:

Data is sent on an established T.140 data channel (Section 5.2).

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

5.2.  Data Encoding and Sending

T.140 text is encoded and framed as T140blocks

[RFC4103]

.

Each T140block is sent on the SCTP stream
standard T.140 transmission procedures
SCTP user message
data channels do not use redundant transmission of text; this is because the T.140 data channel
achieves robust transmission by using the "reliable" mode of the data channel.

. One or more T140blocks can be sent in a single

. Unlike RTP-based transport for real-time text

 used to realize the T.140 data channel using

[RFC4960]

[RFC4103]

[RFC4960]

[T140]

, T.140

Data-sending procedures conform to

.
[T140]

See Section 8 of

[T140]

 for coding details.

NOTE: The T.140 coding details contain information on optional control codes for
controlling the presentation; these control codes may not be supported by the
presentation level of the receiving application. The receiving application is expected
to handle reception of such T.140 control codes appropriately (e.g., ignore and skip
them) even if their eﬀect on the presentation is not supported.

5.3.  Data Buﬀering

As described in
transmission interval of T140blocks from the buﬀer being 500 ms as long as there is text to send.

, buﬀering can be used to reduce overhead, with the maximum assigned

[T140]

Buﬀering
4.2).

MAY

 also be used for staying within the maximum character transmission rate (Section

An implementation needs to take the user requirements for smooth ﬂow and low latency in real-
time text conversation into consideration when assigning a transmission interval. It is
, for T.140 data
RECOMMENDED
channels. Implementers might also use lower values for speciﬁc applications requiring low
latency, taking the increased overhead into consideration.

 to use the default transmission interval of 300 ms

[RFC4103]

5.4.  Loss of T140blocks

In the case of network failure or congestion, T.140 data channels might fail and get torn down. If
this happens but the session is sustained, it is
reestablish the T.140 data channels. As a T.140 data channel does not provide a mechanism for
the receiver to identify retransmitted T140blocks after channel reestablishment, the sending
endpoint
a channel has been reestablished and text might have been lost. This
the missing text markers

 indicate to the user that
 be done by inserting

 retransmit T140blocks. Similarly, a receiver

 or in any other way evident to the user.

 that implementations try to

RECOMMENDED

[T140ad1]

MUST NOT

SHOULD

MAY

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

[RFC4960]

NOTE: If the SCTP association
and gets torn down, it needs to be reestablished before the T.140 data channel can
be reestablished. After the T.140 data channel is reestablished, the procedures
deﬁned in this section apply, regardless of whether only the T.140 data channel or
the whole SCTP association got torn down.

 used to realize the T.140 data channel fails

5.5.  Multi-party Considerations

If an implementation needs to support multi-party scenarios, the implementation needs to
support multiple simultaneous T.140 data channels, one for each remote party. At the time of
writing this document, this is true even in scenarios where each participant communicates via a
centralized conference server. This is because, unlike RTP media, WebRTC data channels and the
T.140 protocol do not support the indication of the source of T.140 data. The 'label' attribute
parameter in the SDP 'dcmap' attribute (Section 4.1) can be used by the oﬀerer to provide
additional information about each T.140 data channel and help implementations to distinguish
between them.

NOTE: Future extensions to T.140 or the T140block might permit the indication of
the source of T.140 data, in which case it might be possible to use a single T.140 data
channel to transport data from multiple remote sources. The usage of a single T.140
data channel, without any protocol extensions, would require the conference server
to only forward real-time text from one source at any given time and, for example,
include human-readable text labels in the real-time text stream that indicate the
source whenever the conference server switches the source. This would allow the
receiver to present real-time text from diﬀerent sources separately. The procedures
for such a mechanism are outside the scope of this document.

6.  Gateway Considerations

A number of real-time text transports and protocols have been deﬁned for both packet-switched
and circuit-switched networks. Many are based on the ITU-T T.140 protocol at the application and
presentation levels
. At the time of writing this document, some mechanisms are no longer
used, as the technologies they use have been obsoleted, while others are still in use.

[T140]

When performing interworking between T.140 data channels and real-time text in other
transports and protocols, a number of factors need to be considered. At the time of writing this
document, the most common IP-based real-time text transport is the RTP-based mechanism
deﬁned in
list below provides some guidance and considerations to take into account when designing a
gateway for interworking between T.140 data channels and RTP-based T.140 transport:

. While this document does not deﬁne a complete interworking solution, the

[RFC4103]

•

For each T.140 data channel, there is an RTP stream for real-time text
Redundancy is by default declared and used on the RTP stream. There is no redundancy on
the T.140 data channel, but the reliable property

 is set on it.

.
[RFC4103]

[RFC8864]

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

•

During a normal text ﬂow, T140blocks received from one network are forwarded towards
the other network. Keepalive traﬃc is handled by lower layers on the T.140 data channel. A
gateway might have to extract keepalives from incoming RTP streams and
keepalives on outgoing RTP streams.

 generate

MAY

•

If the gateway detects or suspects loss of data on the RTP stream and the lost data has not
been retrieved using a redundancy mechanism, the gateway
missing text marker

 in the data sent on the outgoing T.140 data channel.

 insert the T.140

[T140ad1]

SHOULD

•

If the gateway detects that the T.140 data channel has failed and got torn down, once the data
channel has been reestablished the gateway
[T140ad1]
by the remote T.140 data channel endpoint was lost.

 in the data sent on the outgoing RTP stream if it detects or suspects that data sent

 insert the T.140 missing text marker

SHOULD

•

If the gateway detects that the T.140 data channel has failed and got torn down, once the data
channel has been reestablished the gateway
[T140ad1]
data sent or to be sent on the T.140 data channel was lost during the failure.

 insert the T.140 missing text marker
SHOULD
 in the data sent on the outgoing T.140 data channel if it detects or suspects that

•

The gateway
data channel and the RTP stream.

MUST

 indicate the same text transmission direction (Section 4.2.3) on the T.140

NOTE: In order for the gateway to insert a missing text marker or perform other
actions that require that the gateway have access to the T.140 data, the T.140 data
cannot be encrypted end to end between the T.140 data channel endpoint and the
RTP endpoint. At the time of writing this document, no mechanism to provide such
end-to-end encryption is deﬁned.

NOTE: The guidance and considerations above are for two-party connections. At the
time of writing this speciﬁcation, a multi-party solution for RTP-based T.140
transport had not yet been speciﬁed. Once such a solution is speciﬁed, it might have
an impact on the above interworking guidance and considerations.

7.  Update to RFC 8373

This document updates
attributes are used for the "application/webrtc-datachannel" media type.

 by deﬁning how the SDP 'hlang-send' and 'hlang-recv'

[RFC8373]

MUST NOT

SDP oﬀerers and answerers
 include the attributes directly in the "m=" section
associated with the "application/webrtc-datachannel" media type. Instead, the attributes
associated with individual data channels, using the SDP 'dcsa' attribute. A speciﬁcation that
deﬁnes a subprotocol that uses the attributes
 specify the modality for that subprotocol, or
MUST
how to retrieve the modality if the subprotocol supports multiple modalities. The subprotocol is
indicated using the SDP 'dcmap' attribute.

MUST

 be

8.  Security Considerations

The generic WebRTC security considerations are deﬁned in

[RFC8826]

 and

[RFC8827]

.

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

[RFC8831]
The generic security considerations for WebRTC data channels are deﬁned in
channels are always encrypted by design, the T.140 data channels will also be encrypted.

. As data

The generic security considerations for negotiating data channels using the SDP oﬀer/answer
mechanism are deﬁned in
T.140 data channels.

. There are no additional security considerations speciﬁc to

[RFC8864]

When performing interworking between T.140 data channels and RTP-based T.140 transport
[RFC4103]
require that the gateway have access to the T.140 data, the T.140 data cannot be encrypted end to
end between the T.140 data channel endpoint and the RTP endpoint.

, in order for a gateway to insert a missing text marker or perform other actions that

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  Subprotocol Identiﬁer "t140"

Per this document, the subprotocol identiﬁer "t140" has been added to the "WebSocket
Subprotocol Name Registry" as follows:

Subprotocol Identiﬁer:

t140

Subprotocol Common Name:

ITU-T T.140 Real-Time Text

Subprotocol Deﬁnition:

RFC 8865

Reference:

RFC 8865

9.2.  SDP 'fmtp' Attribute

This document deﬁnes the usage of the SDP 'fmtp' attribute, if this attribute is included in an SDP
'dcsa' attribute associated with a T.140 real-time text session over a WebRTC data channel. The
usage is deﬁned in Section 4.2.1.

The usage level "dcsa (t140)" has been added to the registration of the SDP 'fmtp' attribute in the
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry as follows:

Contact name:

IESG

Contact email:

iesg@ietf.org

Attribute name:

fmtp

Usage level:

dcsa (t140)

Purpose:

Indicate format parameters for a T.140 data channel, such as maximum character

transmission rates.

Reference:

RFC 8865

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

9.3.  SDP Language Attributes

This document modiﬁes the usage of the SDP 'hlang-send' and 'hlang-recv' attributes, if these
attributes are included in SDP 'dcsa' attributes associated with a T.140 data channel. The modiﬁed
usage is described in Section 4.2.2.

The usage level "dcsa (t140)" has been added to the registration of the SDP 'hlang-send' attribute
in the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry as follows:

Contact name:

IESG

Contact email:

iesg@ietf.org

Attribute name:

hlang-send

Usage level:

dcsa (t140)

Purpose:

Negotiate the language to be used on a T.140 data channel.

Reference:

RFC 8865

The usage level "dcsa (t140)" has been added to the registration of the SDP 'hlang-recv' attribute
in the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry as follows:

Contact name:

IESG

Contact email:

iesg@ietf.org

Attribute name:

hlang-recv

Usage level:

dcsa (t140)

Purpose:

Negotiate the language to be used on a T.140 data channel.

Reference:

RFC 8865

9.4.  SDP Media Direction Attributes

This document modiﬁes the usage of the SDP 'sendonly', 'recvonly', 'sendrecv', and 'inactive'
attributes, if these attributes are included in SDP 'dcsa' attributes associated with a T.140 data
channel. The modiﬁed usage is described in Section 4.2.3.

The usage level "dcsa (t140)" has been added to the registration of the SDP 'sendonly' attribute in
the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry as follows:

Contact name:

IESG

Contact email:

iesg@ietf.org

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

Attribute name:

sendonly

Usage level:

dcsa (t140)

Purpose:

Negotiate the direction in which real-time text can be sent on a T.140 data channel.

Reference:

RFC 8865

The usage level "dcsa (t140)" has been added to the registration of the SDP 'recvonly' attribute in
the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry as follows:

Contact name:

IESG

Contact email:

iesg@ietf.org

Attribute name:

recvonly

Usage level:

dcsa (t140)

Purpose:

Negotiate the direction in which real-time text can be sent on a T.140 data channel.

Reference:

RFC 8865

The usage level "dcsa (t140)" has been added to the registration of the SDP 'sendrecv' attribute in
the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry as follows:

Contact name:

IESG

Contact email:

iesg@ietf.org

Attribute name:

sendrecv

Usage level:

dcsa (t140)

Purpose:

Negotiate the direction in which real-time text can be sent on a T.140 data channel.

Reference:

RFC 8865

The usage level "dcsa (t140)" has been added to the registration of the SDP 'inactive' attribute in
the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry as follows:

Contact name:

IESG

Contact email:

iesg@ietf.org

Attribute name:

inactive

Usage level:

dcsa (t140)

Purpose:

Negotiate the direction in which real-time text can be sent on a T.140 data channel.

Reference:

RFC 8865

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3264]

[RFC4103]

[RFC4566]

[RFC4960]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8373]

[RFC8826]

[RFC8827]

[RFC8831]

[RFC8864]

[T140]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

,

,

.

,

Hellstrom, G. and P. Jones "RTP Payload for Text Conversation" RFC 4103 DOI
10.17487/RFC4103

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4103>

, June 2005,

.

,

,

,

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Stewart, R., Ed. "Stream Control Transmission Protocol" RFC 4960 DOI
10.17487/RFC4960

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4960>

, September 2007,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Gellens, R. "Negotiating Human Language in Real-Time Communications" RFC
,
8373 DOI 10.17487/RFC8373
rfc8373>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2018,

.

,

Rescorla, E. "Security Considerations for WebRTC" RFC 8826 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8826

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8826>

, January 2021,

.

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "WebRTC Security Architecture" RFC 8827 DOI 10.17487/RFC8827
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8827>

,

,

,

,
Jesup, R., Loreto, S., and M. Tüxen "WebRTC Data Channels" RFC 8831 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8831>
10.17487/RFC8831

, January 2021,

,

,

Drage, K., Makaraju, M., Ejzak, R., Marcon, J., and R. Even, Ed. "Negotiation Data
Channels Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8864 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8864

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8864>

, January 2021,

,
.

,

,

,

ITU-T "Protocol for multimedia application text conversation"
Recommendation ITU-T T.140
T.140-199802-I/en>

, February 1998,

.

,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8865

T.140 Data Channel

January 2021

[T140ad1]

,

ITU-T "Recommendation ITU-T.140 Addendum 1 (02/2000), Protocol for
multimedia application text conversation"
rec/T-REC-T.140-200002-I!Add1/en>

, February 2000,

.

<https://www.itu.int/

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC3261]

[RFC3550]

[RFC8832]

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R.,
Handley, M., and E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
10.17487/RFC3261

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
, June 2002,

,
.

,

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
,
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

.

,

,

,

Jesup, R., Loreto, S., and M. Tüxen "WebRTC Data Channel Establishment
Protocol" RFC 8832 DOI 10.17487/RFC8832
editor.org/info/rfc8832>

, January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

This document is based on an earlier Internet-Draft edited by
.
Bradler

Albrecht Schwarz

, and

Keith Drage Juergen Stoetzer-

,

Thomas Belling
document.

 provided useful comments on the initial (pre‑submission) version of the current

Paul Kyzivat

 and

Bernard Aboba

 provided comments on the document.

Authors' Addresses

Christer Holmberg
Ericsson
Hirsalantie 11
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 christer.holmberg@ericsson.com

Gunnar Hellström
Gunnar Hellström Accessible Communication
Esplanaden 30
SE-
Sweden
Email:

 gunnar.hellstrom@ghaccess.se

136 70 Vendelsö

Holmberg & Hellström

Standards Track

Page 18

