Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8705
Standards Track
February 2020
2070-1721
B. Campbell
Ping Identity

J. Bradley
Yubico

N. Sakimura
Nomura Research Institute

T. Lodderstedt
YES.com AG

RFC 8705
OAuth 2.0 Mutual-TLS Client Authentication and
Certiﬁcate-Bound Access Tokens

Abstract

This document describes OAuth client authentication and certiﬁcate-bound access and refresh
tokens using mutual Transport Layer Security (TLS) authentication with X.509 certiﬁcates. OAuth
clients are provided a mechanism for authentication to the authorization server using mutual
TLS, based on either self-signed certiﬁcates or public key infrastructure (PKI). OAuth
authorization servers are provided a mechanism for binding access tokens to a client's mutual-
TLS certiﬁcate, and OAuth protected resources are provided a method for ensuring that such an
access token presented to it was issued to the client presenting the token.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8705

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Notation and Conventions

1.2.  Terminology

2.  Mutual TLS for OAuth Client Authentication

2.1.  PKI Mutual-TLS Method

2.1.1.  PKI Method Metadata Value

2.1.2.  Client Registration Metadata

2.2.  Self-Signed Certiﬁcate Mutual-TLS Method

2.2.1.  Self-Signed Method Metadata Value

2.2.2.  Client Registration Metadata

3.  Mutual-TLS Client Certiﬁcate-Bound Access Tokens

3.1.  JWT Certiﬁcate Thumbprint Conﬁrmation Method

3.2.  Conﬁrmation Method for Token Introspection

3.3.  Authorization Server Metadata

3.4.  Client Registration Metadata

4.  Public Clients and Certiﬁcate-Bound Tokens

5.  Metadata for Mutual-TLS Endpoint Aliases

6.  Implementation Considerations

6.1.  Authorization Server

6.2.  Resource Server

6.3.  Certiﬁcate Expiration and Bound Access Tokens

6.4.  Implicit Grant Unsupported

6.5.  TLS Termination

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Certiﬁcate-Bound Refresh Tokens

7.2.  Certiﬁcate Thumbprint Binding

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

7.3.  TLS Versions and Best Practices

7.4.  X.509 Certiﬁcate Spooﬁng

7.5.  X.509 Certiﬁcate Parsing and Validation Complexity

8.  Privacy Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  JWT Conﬁrmation Methods Registration

9.2.  Authorization Server Metadata Registration

9.3.  Token Endpoint Authentication Method Registration

9.4.  Token Introspection Response Registration

9.5.  Dynamic Client Registration Metadata Registration

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Example "cnf" Claim, Certiﬁcate, and JWK

Appendix B.  Relationship to Token Binding

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework
obtain delegated access to protected resources. In the prototypical abstract OAuth ﬂow,
illustrated in Figure 1, the client obtains an access token from an entity known as an
authorization server and then uses that token when accessing protected resources, such as
HTTPS APIs.

 enables third-party client applications to

[RFC6749]

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

  +--------+                                 +---------------+
  |        |                                 |               |
  |        |<--(A)-- Get an access token --->| Authorization |
  |        |                                 |     Server    |
  |        |                                 |               |
  |        |                                 +---------------+
  |        |                                         ^
  |        |                                         |
  |        |
  |        |                               (C)       |
  | Client |                           Validate the
  |        |                           access token  |
  |        |
  |        |                                         |
  |        |                                         v
  |        |                                 +---------------+
  |        |                                 |      (C)      |
  |        |                                 |               |
  |        |<--(B)-- Use the access token -->|   Protected   |
  |        |                                 |    Resource   |
  |        |                                 |               |
  +--------+                                 +---------------+

Figure 1: Abstract OAuth 2.0 Protocol Flow

The ﬂow illustrated in Figure 1 includes the following steps:

(A)

(B)

(C)

The client makes an HTTPS POST request to the authorization server and presents a
credential representing the authorization grant. For certain types of clients (those that have
been issued or otherwise established a set of client credentials) the request must be
authenticated. In the response, the authorization server issues an access token to the client.

The client includes the access token when making a request to access a protected resource.

The protected resource validates the access token in order to authorize the request. In some
cases, such as when the token is self-contained and cryptographically secured, the
validation can be done locally by the protected resource. Other cases require that the
protected resource call out to the authorization server to determine the state of the token
and obtain metainformation about it.

Layering on the abstract ﬂow above, this document standardizes enhanced security options for
OAuth 2.0 utilizing client-certiﬁcate-based mutual TLS. Section 2 provides options for
authenticating the request in Step (A). Step (C) is supported with semantics to express the binding
of the token to the client certiﬁcate for both local and remote processing in Sections 3.1 and 3.2,
respectively. This ensures that, as described in Section 3, protected resource access in Step (B) is
only possible by the legitimate client using a certiﬁcate-bound token and holding the private key
corresponding to the certiﬁcate.

OAuth 2.0 deﬁnes a shared-secret method of client authentication but also allows for deﬁning
and using additional client authentication mechanisms when interacting directly with the
authorization server. This document describes an additional mechanism of client authentication
utilizing mutual-TLS certiﬁcate-based authentication that provides better security characteristics

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

[RFC6749]

than shared secrets. While
endpoint, extensions to OAuth 2.0 (such as Introspection
the Backchannel Authentication Endpoint in
client authentication, and the mutual-TLS methods deﬁned herein are applicable to those
endpoints as well.

 documents client authentication for requests to the token
, and

) deﬁne endpoints that also utilize

[OpenID.CIBA]

, Revocation

[RFC7662]

[RFC7009]

Mutual-TLS certiﬁcate-bound access tokens ensure that only the party in possession of the
private key corresponding to the certiﬁcate can utilize the token to access the associated
resources. Such a constraint is sometimes referred to as key conﬁrmation, proof-of-possession, or
holder-of-key and is unlike the case of the bearer token described in
, where any party
in possession of the access token can use it to access the associated resources. Binding an access
token to the client's certiﬁcate prevents the use of stolen access tokens or replay of access tokens
by unauthorized parties.

[RFC6750]

Mutual-TLS certiﬁcate-bound access tokens and mutual-TLS client authentication are distinct
mechanisms that are complementary but don't necessarily need to be deployed or used together.

Additional client metadata parameters are introduced by this document in support of certiﬁcate-
bound access tokens and mutual-TLS client authentication. The authorization server can obtain
client metadata via the Dynamic Client Registration Protocol
mechanisms for dynamically registering OAuth 2.0 client metadata with authorization servers.
Also the metadata deﬁned by
model for clients that is useful for authorization server implementations, even when the
Dynamic Client Registration Protocol isn't in play. Such implementations will typically have some
sort of user interface available for managing client conﬁguration.

, and registered extensions to it, imply a general data

, which deﬁnes

[RFC7591]

[RFC7591]

1.1.  Requirements Notation and Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Terminology

Throughout this document the term "mutual TLS" refers to the process whereby, in addition to
the normal TLS server authentication with a certiﬁcate, a client presents its X.509 certiﬁcate and
proves possession of the corresponding private key to a server when negotiating a TLS session.
In contemporary versions of TLS
Certiﬁcate and CertiﬁcateVerify messages during the handshake and for the server to verify the
CertiﬁcateVerify and Finished messages.

, this requires that the client send the

[RFC5246] [RFC8446]

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

2.  Mutual TLS for OAuth Client Authentication

This section deﬁnes, as an extension of
of using mutual-TLS X.509 client certiﬁcates as client credentials. The requirement of mutual TLS
for client authentication is determined by the authorization server, based on policy or
conﬁguration for the given client (regardless of whether the client was dynamically registered,
statically conﬁgured, or otherwise established).

Section 2.3 of OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749]

, two distinct methods

In order to utilize TLS for OAuth client authentication, the TLS connection between the client and
the authorization server
certiﬁcate authentication (i.e., the client Certiﬁcate and CertiﬁcateVerify messages are sent
during the TLS handshake).

 have been established or re-established with mutual-TLS X.509

MUST

Section 2.2 of OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749]

 include the client_id parameter described in

For all requests to the authorization server utilizing mutual-TLS client authentication, the client
. The
MUST
presence of the client_id parameter enables the authorization server to easily identify the
client independently from the content of the certiﬁcate. The authorization server can locate the
client conﬁguration using the client identiﬁer and check the certiﬁcate presented in the TLS
handshake against the expected credentials for that client. The authorization server
enforce the binding between client and certiﬁcate, as described in either Section 2.1 or 2.2 below.
If no certiﬁcate is presented, or that which is presented doesn't match that which is expected for
the given client_id, the authorization server returns a normal OAuth 2.0 error response per
Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]
authentication.

 with the invalid_client error code to indicate failed client

MUST

2.1.  PKI Mutual-TLS Method

[RFC5280]

The PKI (public key infrastructure) method of mutual-TLS OAuth client authentication adheres to
the way in which X.509 certiﬁcates are traditionally used for authentication. It relies on a
 and a single subject distinguished name (DN) or a single
validated certiﬁcate chain
subject alternative name (SAN) to authenticate the client. Only one subject name value of any
type is used for each client. The TLS handshake is utilized to validate the client's possession of the
private key corresponding to the public key in the certiﬁcate and to validate the corresponding
certiﬁcate chain. The client is successfully authenticated if the subject information in the
certiﬁcate matches the single expected subject conﬁgured or registered for that particular client
(note that a predictable treatment of DN values, such as the distinguishedNameMatch rule from
, is needed in comparing the certiﬁcate's subject DN to the client's registered DN).
[RFC4517]
Revocation checking is possible with the PKI method but if and how to check a certiﬁcate's
revocation status is a deployment decision at the discretion of the authorization server. Clients
can rotate their X.509 certiﬁcates without the need to modify the respective authentication data
at the authorization server by obtaining a new certiﬁcate with the same subject from a trusted
certiﬁcate authority (CA).

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

2.1.1.  PKI Method Metadata Value

For the PKI method of mutual-TLS client authentication, this speciﬁcation deﬁnes and registers
the following authentication method metadata value into the "OAuth Token Endpoint
Authentication Methods" registry

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]
.

tls_client_auth

Indicates that client authentication to the authorization server will occur with mutual TLS
utilizing the PKI method of associating a certiﬁcate to a client.

2.1.2.  Client Registration Metadata

In order to convey the expected subject of the certiﬁcate, the following metadata parameters are
introduced for the OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol
PKI method of mutual-TLS client authentication. A client using the tls_client_auth
authentication method
certiﬁcate subject value that the authorization server is to expect when authenticating the
respective client.

 use exactly one of the below metadata parameters to indicate the

 in support of the

[RFC7591]

MUST

tls_client_auth_subject_dn

A string representation -- as deﬁned in
name of the certiﬁcate that the OAuth client will use in mutual-TLS authentication.

 -- of the expected subject distinguished

[RFC4514]

tls_client_auth_san_dns

A string containing the value of an expected dNSName SAN entry in the certiﬁcate that the
OAuth client will use in mutual-TLS authentication.

tls_client_auth_san_uri

A string containing the value of an expected uniformResourceIdentiﬁer SAN entry in the
certiﬁcate that the OAuth client will use in mutual-TLS authentication.

tls_client_auth_san_ip

A string representation of an IP address in either dotted decimal notation (for IPv4) or
colon-delimited hexadecimal (for IPv6, as deﬁned in
) that is expected to be
present as an iPAddress SAN entry in the certiﬁcate that the OAuth client will use in
mutual-TLS authentication. Per
value in this parameter and the SAN entry in the certiﬁcate is to be done in binary format.

, the IP address comparison of the

Section 8 of [RFC5952]

[RFC5952]

tls_client_auth_san_email

A string containing the value of an expected rfc822Name SAN entry in the certiﬁcate that
the OAuth client will use in mutual-TLS authentication.

2.2.  Self-Signed Certiﬁcate Mutual-TLS Method

This method of mutual-TLS OAuth client authentication is intended to support client
authentication using self-signed certiﬁcates. As a prerequisite, the client registers its X.509
certiﬁcates (using jwks deﬁned in
certiﬁcates (using jwks_uri from

) or a reference to a trusted source for its X.509
) with the authorization server. During

[RFC7591]
[RFC7591]

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

authentication, TLS is utilized to validate the client's possession of the private key corresponding
to the public key presented within the certiﬁcate in the respective TLS handshake. In contrast to
the PKI method, the client's certiﬁcate chain is not validated by the server in this case. The client
is successfully authenticated if the certiﬁcate that it presented during the handshake matches
one of the certiﬁcates conﬁgured or registered for that particular client. The Self-Signed
Certiﬁcate method allows the use of mutual TLS to authenticate clients without the need to
maintain a PKI. When used in conjunction with a jwks_uri for the client, it also allows the client
to rotate its X.509 certiﬁcates without the need to change its respective authentication data
directly with the authorization server.

2.2.1.  Self-Signed Method Metadata Value

For the Self-Signed Certiﬁcate method of mutual-TLS client authentication, this speciﬁcation
deﬁnes and registers the following authentication method metadata value into the "OAuth Token
Endpoint Authentication Methods" registry

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

.

self_signed_tls_client_auth

Indicates that client authentication to the authorization server will occur using mutual TLS
with the client utilizing a self-signed certiﬁcate.

2.2.2.  Client Registration Metadata

For the Self-Signed Certiﬁcate method of binding a certiﬁcate with a client using mutual-TLS
client authentication, the existing jwks_uri or jwks metadata parameters from
used to convey the client's certiﬁcates via JSON Web Key (JWK) in a JWK Set
metadata parameter is a JWK Set containing the client's public keys as an array of JWKs, while
the jwks_uri parameter is a URL that references a client's JWK Set. A certiﬁcate is represented
with the x5c parameter of an individual JWK within the set. Note that the members of the JWK
representing the public key (e.g., "n" and "e" for RSA, "x" and "y" for Elliptic Curve (EC)) are
required parameters per
context. Also note that
x5c parameter match the public key represented by those other members of the JWK.

 so will be present even though they are not utilized in this

 requires that the key in the ﬁrst certiﬁcate of the

 are
. The jwks

Section 4.7 of [RFC7517]

[RFC7591]

[RFC7517]

[RFC7518]

3.  Mutual-TLS Client Certiﬁcate-Bound Access Tokens

When mutual TLS is used by the client on the connection to the token endpoint, the authorization
server is able to bind the issued access token to the client certiﬁcate. Such a binding is
accomplished by associating the certiﬁcate with the token in a way that can be accessed by the
protected resource, such as embedding the certiﬁcate hash in the issued access token directly,
using the syntax described in Section 3.1, or through token introspection as described in Section
3.2. Binding the access token to the client certiﬁcate in that fashion has the beneﬁt of decoupling
that binding from the client's authentication with the authorization server, which enables
mutual TLS during protected resource access to serve purely as a proof-of-possession
mechanism. Other methods of associating a certiﬁcate with an access token are possible, per
agreement by the authorization server and the protected resource, but are beyond the scope of
this speciﬁcation.

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

In order for a resource server to use certiﬁcate-bound access tokens, it must have advance
knowledge that mutual TLS is to be used for some or all resource accesses. In particular, the
access token itself cannot be used as input to the decision of whether or not to request mutual
TLS because (from the TLS perspective) it is "Application Data", only exchanged after the TLS
handshake has been completed, and the initial CertiﬁcateRequest occurs during the handshake,
before the Application Data is available. Although subsequent opportunities for a TLS client to
present a certiﬁcate may be available, e.g., via TLS 1.2 renegotiation
 or TLS 1.3 post-
handshake authentication
expected to be common that a mutual-TLS-using resource server will require mutual TLS for all
resources hosted thereupon or will serve mutual-TLS-protected and regular resources on
separate hostname and port combinations, though other workﬂows are possible. How resource
server policy is synchronized with the authorization server (AS) is out of scope for this
document.

, this document makes no provision for their usage. It is

[RFC8446]

[RFC5246]

Within the scope of a mutual-TLS-protected resource-access ﬂow, the client makes protected
 be made over a
resource requests, as described in
mutually authenticated TLS connection using the same certiﬁcate that was used for mutual TLS
at the token endpoint.

, however, those requests

[RFC6750]

MUST

MUST

The protected resource
used for mutual TLS and
the access token. If they do not match, the resource access attempt
error, per

[RFC6750]

MUST

 obtain, from its TLS implementation layer, the client certiﬁcate

 verify that the certiﬁcate matches the certiﬁcate associated with

, using an HTTP 401 status code and the invalid_token error code.

MUST

 be rejected with an

Metadata to convey server and client capabilities for mutual-TLS client certiﬁcate-bound access
tokens is deﬁned in Sections 3.3 and 3.4, respectively.

3.1.  JWT Certiﬁcate Thumbprint Conﬁrmation Method

When access tokens are represented as JSON Web Tokens (JWT)
information
herein.

SHOULD

 be represented using the x5t#S256 conﬁrmation method member deﬁned

[RFC7519]

, the certiﬁcate hash

[RFC7800]

To represent the hash of a certiﬁcate in a JWT, this speciﬁcation deﬁnes the new JWT
 member x5t#S256 for the X.509 Certiﬁcate SHA-256
Conﬁrmation Method
Thumbprint. The value of the x5t#S256 member is a base64url-encoded
[SHS]
certiﬁcate
MUST NOT

[RFC5280]
 include any line breaks, whitespace, or other additional characters.

 hash (a.k.a., thumbprint, ﬁngerprint, or digest) of the DER encoding

[RFC4648]
[X690]
 omit all trailing pad '=' characters and

. The base64url-encoded value

 SHA-256
 of the X.509

MUST

The following is an example of a JWT payload containing an x5t#S256 certiﬁcate thumbprint
conﬁrmation method. The new JWT content introduced by this speciﬁcation is the cnf
conﬁrmation method claim at the bottom of the example that has the x5t#S256 conﬁrmation
method member containing the value that is the hash of the client certiﬁcate to which the access
token is bound.

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

  {
    "iss": "https://server.example.com",
    "sub": "ty.webb@example.com",
    "exp": 1493726400,
    "nbf": 1493722800,
    "cnf":{
      "x5t#S256": "bwcK0esc3ACC3DB2Y5_lESsXE8o9ltc05O89jdN-dg2"
    }
  }

Figure 2: Example JWT Claims Set with an X.509 Certiﬁcate Thumbprint Conﬁrmation Method

3.2.  Conﬁrmation Method for Token Introspection

OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection
authorization server about the active state of an access token as well as to determine
metainformation about the token.

 deﬁnes a method for a protected resource to query an

[RFC7662]

For a mutual-TLS client certiﬁcate-bound access token, the hash of the certiﬁcate to which the
token is bound is conveyed to the protected resource as metainformation in a token
introspection response. The hash is conveyed using the same cnf with x5t#S256 member
structure as the certiﬁcate SHA-256 thumbprint conﬁrmation method, described in Section 3.1, as
a top-level member of the introspection response JSON. The protected resource compares that
certiﬁcate hash to a hash of the client certiﬁcate used for mutual-TLS authentication and rejects
the request if they do not match.

The following is an example of an introspection response for an active token with an x5t#S256
certiﬁcate thumbprint conﬁrmation method. The new introspection response content introduced
by this speciﬁcation is the cnf conﬁrmation method at the bottom of the example that has the
x5t#S256 conﬁrmation method member containing the value that is the hash of the client
certiﬁcate to which the access token is bound.

  HTTP/1.1 200 OK
  Content-Type: application/json

  {
    "active": true,
    "iss": "https://server.example.com",
    "sub": "ty.webb@example.com",
    "exp": 1493726400,
    "nbf": 1493722800,
    "cnf":{
      "x5t#S256": "bwcK0esc3ACC3DB2Y5_lESsXE8o9ltc05O89jdN-dg2"
    }
  }

Figure 3: Example Introspection Response for a Certiﬁcate-Bound Access Token

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

3.3.  Authorization Server Metadata

This document introduces the following new authorization server metadata
parameter to signal the server's capability to issue certiﬁcate-bound access tokens:

[RFC8414]

tls_client_certiﬁcate_bound_access_tokens

OPTIONAL
access tokens. If omitted, the default value is false.

. Boolean value indicating server support for mutual-TLS client certiﬁcate-bound

3.4.  Client Registration Metadata

The following new client metadata parameter is introduced to convey the client's intention to use
certiﬁcate-bound access tokens:

tls_client_certiﬁcate_bound_access_tokens

OPTIONAL
certiﬁcate-bound access tokens. If omitted, the default value is false.

. Boolean value used to indicate the client's intention to use mutual-TLS client

Note that if a client that has indicated the intention to use mutual-TLS client certiﬁcate-bound
tokens makes a request to the token endpoint over a non-mutual-TLS connection, it is at the
authorization server's discretion as to whether to return an error or issue an unbound token.

4.  Public Clients and Certiﬁcate-Bound Tokens

Mutual-TLS OAuth client authentication and certiﬁcate-bound access tokens can be used
independently of each other. Use of certiﬁcate-bound access tokens without mutual-TLS OAuth
client authentication, for example, is possible in support of binding access tokens to a TLS client
certiﬁcate for public clients (those without authentication credentials associated with the
client_id). The authorization server would conﬁgure the TLS stack in the same manner as for
the Self-Signed Certiﬁcate method such that it does not verify that the certiﬁcate presented by the
client during the handshake is signed by a trusted CA. Individual instances of a client would
create a self-signed certiﬁcate for mutual TLS with both the authorization server and resource
server. The authorization server would not use the mutual-TLS certiﬁcate to authenticate the
client at the OAuth layer but would bind the issued access token to the certiﬁcate for which the
client has proven possession of the corresponding private key. The access token is then bound to
the certiﬁcate and can only be used by the client possessing the certiﬁcate and corresponding
private key and utilizing them to negotiate mutual TLS on connections to the resource server.
 also bind the
When the authorization server issues a refresh token to such a client, it
refresh token to the respective certiﬁcate and check the binding when the refresh token is
presented to get new access tokens. The implementation details of the binding of the refresh
token are at the discretion of the authorization server.

SHOULD

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

5.  Metadata for Mutual-TLS Endpoint Aliases

The process of negotiating client certiﬁcate-based mutual TLS involves a TLS server requesting a
certiﬁcate from the TLS client (the client does not provide one unsolicited). Although a server can
be conﬁgured such that client certiﬁcates are optional, meaning that the connection is allowed to
continue when the client does not provide a certiﬁcate, the act of a server requesting a certiﬁcate
can result in undesirable behavior from some clients. This is particularly true of web browsers
as TLS clients, which will typically present the end user with an intrusive certiﬁcate selection
interface when the server requests a certiﬁcate.

Authorization servers supporting both clients using mutual TLS and conventional clients
chose to isolate the server side mutual-TLS behavior to only clients intending to do mutual TLS,
thus avoiding any undesirable eﬀects it might have on conventional clients. The following
authorization server metadata parameter is introduced to facilitate such separation:

MAY

mtls_endpoint_aliases
. A JSON object containing alternative authorization server endpoints that, when
OPTIONAL
present, an OAuth client intending to do mutual TLS uses in preference to the conventional
endpoints. The parameter value itself consists of one or more endpoint parameters, such
as token_endpoint, revocation_endpoint, introspection_endpoint, etc.,
conventionally deﬁned for the top level of authorization server metadata. An OAuth client
intending to do mutual TLS (for OAuth client authentication and/or to acquire or use
certiﬁcate-bound tokens) when making a request directly to the authorization server
use the alias URL of the endpoint within the mtls_endpoint_aliases, when present, in
preference to the endpoint URL of the same name at the top level of metadata. When an
endpoint is not present in mtls_endpoint_aliases, then the client uses the conventional
endpoint URL deﬁned at the top level of the authorization server metadata. Metadata
parameters within mtls_endpoint_aliases that do not deﬁne endpoints to which an
OAuth client makes a direct request have no meaning and

 be ignored.

SHOULD

MUST

Below is an example of an authorization server metadata document with the
mtls_endpoint_aliases parameter, which indicates aliases for the token, revocation, and
introspection endpoints that an OAuth client intending to do mutual TLS would use in preference
to the conventional token, revocation, and introspection endpoints. Note that the endpoints in
mtls_endpoint_aliases use a diﬀerent host than their conventional counterparts, which allows
the authorization server (via TLS server_name extension
diﬀerentiate its TLS behavior as appropriate.

 or actual distinct hosts) to

[RFC6066]

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

{
  "issuer": "https://server.example.com",
  "authorization_endpoint": "https://server.example.com/authz",
  "token_endpoint": "https://server.example.com/token",
  "introspection_endpoint": "https://server.example.com/introspect",
  "revocation_endpoint": "https://server.example.com/revo",
  "jwks_uri": "https://server.example.com/jwks",
  "response_types_supported": ["code"],
  "response_modes_supported": ["fragment","query","form_post"],
  "grant_types_supported": ["authorization_code", "refresh_token"],
  "token_endpoint_auth_methods_supported":
                  ["tls_client_auth","client_secret_basic","none"],
  "tls_client_certificate_bound_access_tokens": true,
  "mtls_endpoint_aliases": {
    "token_endpoint": "https://mtls.example.com/token",
    "revocation_endpoint": "https://mtls.example.com/revo",
    "introspection_endpoint": "https://mtls.example.com/introspect"
  }
}

Figure 4: Example Authorization Server Metadata with Mutual-TLS Endpoint Aliases

6.  Implementation Considerations

6.1.  Authorization Server

The authorization server needs to set up its TLS conﬁguration appropriately for the OAuth client
authentication methods it supports.

An authorization server that supports mutual-TLS client authentication and other client
authentication methods or public clients in parallel would make mutual TLS optional (i.e.,
allowing a handshake to continue after the server requests a client certiﬁcate but the client does
not send one).

In order to support the Self-Signed Certiﬁcate method alone, the authorization server would
conﬁgure the TLS stack in such a way that it does not verify whether the certiﬁcate presented by
the client during the handshake is signed by a trusted CA certiﬁcate.

As described in Section 3, the authorization server binds the issued access token to the TLS client
certiﬁcate, which means that it will only issue certiﬁcate-bound tokens for a certiﬁcate that the
client has proven possession of the corresponding private key.

The authorization server may also consider hosting the token endpoint and other endpoints
requiring client authentication on a separate host name or port in order to prevent unintended
impact on the TLS behavior of its other endpoints, e.g., the authorization endpoint. As described
in Section 5, it may further isolate any potential impact of the server requesting client certiﬁcates
by oﬀering a distinct set of endpoints on a separate host or port, which are aliases for the
originals that a client intending to do mutual TLS will use in preference to the conventional
endpoints.

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

6.2.  Resource Server

OAuth divides the roles and responsibilities such that the resource server relies on the
authorization server to perform client authentication and obtain resource-owner (end-user)
authorization. The resource server makes authorization decisions based on the access token
presented by the client but does not directly authenticate the client per se. The manner in which
an access token is bound to the client certiﬁcate and how a protected resource veriﬁes the proof-
of-possession decouples that from the speciﬁc method that the client used to authenticate with
the authorization server. Mutual TLS during protected resource access can, therefore, serve
purely as a proof-of-possession mechanism. As such, it is not necessary for the resource server to
validate the trust chain of the client's certiﬁcate in any of the methods deﬁned in this document.
The resource server would, therefore, conﬁgure the TLS stack in a way that it does not verify
whether the certiﬁcate presented by the client during the handshake is signed by a trusted CA
certiﬁcate.

6.3.  Certiﬁcate Expiration and Bound Access Tokens

As described in Section 3, an access token is bound to a speciﬁc client certiﬁcate, which means
that the same certiﬁcate must be used for mutual TLS on protected resource access. It also
implies that access tokens are invalidated when a client updates the certiﬁcate, which can be
handled similarly to expired access tokens where the client requests a new access token
(typically with a refresh token) and retries the protected resource request.

6.4.  Implicit Grant Unsupported

This document describes binding an access token to the client certiﬁcate presented on the TLS
connection from the client to the authorization server's token endpoint, however, such binding
of access tokens issued directly from the authorization endpoint via the implicit grant ﬂow is
explicitly out of scope. End users interact directly with the authorization endpoint using a web
browser, and the use of client certiﬁcates in user's browsers bring operational and usability
issues that make it undesirable to support certiﬁcate-bound access tokens issued in the implicit
grant ﬂow. Implementations wanting to employ certiﬁcate-bound access tokens should utilize
grant types that involve the client making an access token request directly to the token endpoint
(e.g., the authorization code and refresh token grant types).

6.5.  TLS Termination

 choose to terminate TLS connections at a load
An authorization server or resource server
balancer, reverse proxy, or other network intermediary. How the client certiﬁcate metadata is
securely communicated between the intermediary and the application server, in this case, is out
of scope of this speciﬁcation.

MAY

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Certiﬁcate-Bound Refresh Tokens

[RFC6749]
The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework
 requires that an authorization server (AS)
bind refresh tokens to the client to which they were issued and that conﬁdential clients (those
having established authentication credentials with the AS) authenticate to the AS when
presenting a refresh token. As a result, refresh tokens are indirectly certiﬁcate-bound by way of
the client ID and the associated requirement for (certiﬁcate-based) authentication to the AS when
issued to clients utilizing the tls_client_auth or self_signed_tls_client_auth methods of
client authentication. Section 4 describes certiﬁcate-bound refresh tokens issued to public clients
(those without authentication credentials associated with the client_id).

7.2.  Certiﬁcate Thumbprint Binding

The binding between the certiﬁcate and access token speciﬁed in Section 3.1 uses a cryptographic
hash of the certiﬁcate. It relies on the hash function having suﬃcient second-preimage resistance
so as to make it computationally infeasible to ﬁnd or create another certiﬁcate that produces to
the same hash output value. The SHA-256 hash function was used because it meets the
aforementioned requirement while being widely available. If, in the future, certiﬁcate
thumbprints need to be computed using hash function(s) other than SHA-256, it is suggested that,
for additional related JWT conﬁrmation methods, members be deﬁned for that purpose and
registered in the IANA "JWT Conﬁrmation Methods" registry
 for JWT cnf
member values.

[IANA.JWT.Claims]

Community knowledge about the strength of various algorithms and feasible attacks can change
suddenly, and experience shows that a document about security is a point-in-time statement.
Readers are advised to seek out any errata or updates that apply to this document.

7.3.  TLS Versions and Best Practices

This document is applicable with any TLS version supporting certiﬁcate-based client
authentication. Both
 and
time of writing, 1.3 is the newest version, while 1.2 is the most widely deployed. General
implementation and security considerations for TLS, including version recommendations, can be
found in

 are cited herein, because, at the

TLS 1.3 [RFC8446]

TLS 1.2 [RFC5246]

[BCP195]

.

TLS certiﬁcate validation (for both client and server certiﬁcates) requires a local database of
trusted certiﬁcate authorities (CAs). Decisions about what CAs to trust and how to make such a
determination of trust are out of scope for this document.

7.4.  X.509 Certiﬁcate Spooﬁng

If the PKI method of client authentication is used, an attacker could try to impersonate a client
using a certiﬁcate with the same subject (DN or SAN) but issued by a diﬀerent CA that the
authorization server trusts. To cope with that threat, the authorization server

SHOULD

 only

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

accept, as trust anchors, a limited number of CAs whose certiﬁcate issuance policy meets its
security requirements. There is an assumption then that the client and server agree out of band
on the set of trust anchors that the server uses to create and validate the certiﬁcate chain.
Without this assumption the use of a subject to identify the client certiﬁcate would open the
server up to certiﬁcate spooﬁng attacks.

7.5.  X.509 Certiﬁcate Parsing and Validation Complexity

Parsing and validation of X.509 certiﬁcates and certiﬁcate chains is complex, and
implementation mistakes have previously exposed security vulnerabilities. Complexities of
validation include (but are not limited to)

[CX5P] [DCW] [RFC5280]

:

•

checking of basic constraints, basic and extended key usage constraints, validity periods, and
critical extensions;

•

handling of embedded NUL bytes in ASN.1 counted-length strings and non-canonical or non-
normalized string representations in subject names;

•

handling of wildcard patterns in subject names;

•

recursive veriﬁcation of certiﬁcate chains and checking certiﬁcate revocation.

For these reasons, implementors
as one used by an established TLS library) for validation of X.509 certiﬁcate chains and
NOT

 use an established and well-tested X.509 library (such
SHOULD

 attempt to write their own X.509 certiﬁcate validation procedures.

SHOULD

8.  Privacy Considerations

In TLS versions prior to 1.3, the client's certiﬁcate is sent unencrypted in the initial handshake
and can potentially be used by third parties to monitor, track, and correlate client activity. This is
likely of little concern for clients that act on behalf of a signiﬁcant number of end users because
individual user activity will not be discernible amidst the client activity as a whole. However,
clients that act on behalf of a single end user, such as a native application on a mobile device,
should use TLS version 1.3 whenever possible or consider the potential privacy implications of
using mutual TLS on earlier versions.

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  JWT Conﬁrmation Methods Registration

Per this speciﬁcation, the following value has been registered in the IANA "JWT Conﬁrmation
Methods" registry

 for JWT cnf member values established by

[IANA.JWT.Claims]

[RFC7800]

.

Conﬁrmation Method Value:
Conﬁrmation Method Description:
Change Controller:
IESG
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

x5t#S256

Section 3.1 of RFC 8705

X.509 Certiﬁcate SHA-256 Thumbprint

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

9.2.  Authorization Server Metadata Registration

Per this speciﬁcation, the following values have been registered in the IANA "OAuth
Authorization Server Metadata" registry

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

 established by

[RFC8414]
.

Metadata Name:
Metadata Description:

tls_client_certificate_bound_access_tokens

Indicates authorization server support for mutual-TLS client certiﬁcate-

bound access tokens.

IESG
Change Controller:
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Section 3.3 of RFC 8705

Metadata Name:
Metadata Description:

mtls_endpoint_aliases

JSON object containing alternative authorization server endpoints,
which a client intending to do mutual TLS will use in preference to the conventional
endpoints.

Change Controller:
IESG
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Section 5 of RFC 8705

9.3.  Token Endpoint Authentication Method Registration

Per this speciﬁcation, the following values have been registered in the IANA "OAuth Token
Endpoint Authentication Methods" registry

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

 established by

[RFC7591]

.

Token Endpoint Authentication Method Name:
Change Controller:
IESG
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Section 2.1.1 of RFC 8705

tls_client_auth

Token Endpoint Authentication Method Name:
Change Controller:
IESG
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Section 2.2.1 of RFC 8705

self_signed_tls_client_ auth

9.4.  Token Introspection Response Registration

[RFC7800]

 deﬁned the cnf

"Proof-of-Possession Key Semantics for JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)"
(conﬁrmation) claim that enables conﬁrmation key information to be carried in a JWT. However,
the same proof-of-possession semantics are also useful for introspected access tokens whereby
the protected resource obtains the conﬁrmation key data as metainformation of a token
introspection response and uses that information in verifying proof-of-possession. Therefore,
this speciﬁcation deﬁnes and registers proof-of-possession semantics for OAuth 2.0 Token
Introspection
OAuth token introspection response, cnf has the same semantics and format as the claim of the
same name deﬁned in
conﬁrmation method member (see Section 3.2), it needs to deﬁne and register the higher-level
cnf structure as an introspection response member in order to deﬁne and use the more speciﬁc
certiﬁcate thumbprint conﬁrmation method.

 using the cnf structure. When included as a top-level member of an

. While this speciﬁcation only explicitly uses the x5t#S256

[RFC7662]

[RFC7800]

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

As such, the following values have been registered in the IANA "OAuth Token Introspection
Response" registry

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

 established by

[RFC7662]

.

cnf
Claim Name:
Conﬁrmation
Claim Description:
IESG
Change Controller:
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

[RFC7800]

 and RFC 8705

9.5.  Dynamic Client Registration Metadata Registration

Per this speciﬁcation, the following client metadata deﬁnitions have been registered in the IANA
"OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata" registry
 established by
[RFC7591]
:

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

Client Metadata Name:
Client Metadata Description:
bound access tokens.

tls_client_certificate_bound_access_tokens

Indicates the client's intention to use mutual-TLS client certiﬁcate-

Change Controller:
IESG
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Section 3.4 of RFC 8705

Client Metadata Name:
Client Metadata Description:

tls_client_auth_subject_dn

String value specifying the expected subject DN of the client

certiﬁcate.

Change Controller:
IESG
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Section 2.1.2 of RFC 8705

Client Metadata Name:
Client Metadata Description:
client certiﬁcate.

tls_client_auth_san_dns

String value specifying the expected dNSName SAN entry in the

Change Controller:
IESG
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Section 2.1.2 of RFC 8705

Client Metadata Name:
Client Metadata Description:

tls_client_auth_san_uri

String value specifying the expected uniformResourceIdentiﬁer

SAN entry in the client certiﬁcate.
Change Controller:
IESG
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Section 2.1.2 of RFC 8705

Client Metadata Name:
Client Metadata Description:
client certiﬁcate.

tls_client_auth_san_ip

String value specifying the expected iPAddress SAN entry in the

Change Controller:
IESG
Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Section 2.1.2 of RFC 8705

Client Metadata Name:
Client Metadata Description:
client certiﬁcate.

tls_client_auth_san_email

String value specifying the expected rfc822Name SAN entry in the

Change Controller:

IESG

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

Speciﬁcation Document(s): Section 2.1.2 of RFC 8705

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[BCP195]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4514]

[RFC4648]

[RFC5246]

[RFC5280]

[RFC6749]

[RFC6750]

[RFC7517]

[RFC7519]

[RFC7591]

[RFC7662]

Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp195>

, May 2015,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Zeilenga, K., Ed. "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP): String
Representation of Distinguished Names" RFC 4514 DOI 10.17487/RFC4514
2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4514>

,

,

.

, June

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

Dierks, T. and E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
info/rfc5246>

, August 2008,

,
.

,

,

Cooper, D., Santesson, S., Farrell, S., Boeyen, S., Housley, R., and W. Polk
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation
List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Hardt, D., Ed. "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework" RFC 6749 DOI
10.17487/RFC6749

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>

, October 2012,

,

,

,

.

Jones, M. and D. Hardt "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token
Usage" RFC 6750 DOI 10.17487/RFC6750
editor.org/info/rfc6750>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2012,

,

,

.

,

,
Jones, M. "JSON Web Key (JWK)" RFC 7517 DOI 10.17487/RFC7517
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7517>

,

,

.

, May 2015,

,
Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI
10.17487/RFC7519

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

, May 2015,

,

,

.

Richer, J., Ed., Jones, M., Bradley, J., Machulak, M., and P. Hunt "OAuth 2.0
Dynamic Client Registration Protocol" RFC 7591 DOI 10.17487/RFC7591
2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7591>

,

,

.

,

, July

,
Richer, J., Ed. "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection" RFC 7662 DOI 10.17487/RFC7662
October 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7662>

,
.

,

,

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

[RFC7800]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8414]

[RFC8446]

[SHS]

[X690]

Jones, M., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig "Proof-of-Possession Key Semantics for
,
JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)" RFC 7800 DOI 10.17487/RFC7800
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7800>

, April 2016,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley "OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server
,
Metadata" RFC 8414 DOI 10.17487/RFC8414
editor.org/info/rfc8414>

, June 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

,

,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Secure Hash Standard
(SHS)" FIPS PUB 180-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4
nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf>

, August 2015,
.

<https://

,

,

,

,

ITU-T "Information Technology - ASN.1 encoding rules: Speciﬁcation of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690

, August 2015.

,

10.2.  Informative References

[CX5P]

[DCW]

,

Wong, D. "Common x509 certiﬁcate validation/creation pitfalls"
2016,
validationcreation-pitfalls>

<https://www.cryptologie.net/article/374/common-x509-certiﬁcate-

.

, September

Georgiev, M., Iyengar, S., Jana, S., Anubhai, R., Boneh, D., and V. Shmatikov "The
Most Dangerous Code in the World: Validating SSL Certiﬁcates in Non-Browser
Software" DOI 10.1145/2382196.2382204
www.cs.utexas.edu/~shmat/shmat_ccs12.pdf>

, October 2012,

<http://

,

.

,

[IANA.JWT.Claims]

IANA "JSON Web Token Claims" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/jwt>

,

,

.

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

IANA "OAuth Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/

,

,
.
oauth-parameters>

[OpenID.CIBA]

[RFC4517]

[RFC5952]

Fernandez, G., Walter, F., Nennker, A., Tonge, D., and B. Campbell "OpenID
Connect Client Initiated Backchannel Authentication Flow - Core 1.0"
2019,
authentication-core-1_0.html>

<https://openid.net/specs/openid-client-initiated-backchannel-

.

,

, 16 January

,

Legg, S., Ed. "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP): Syntaxes and
Matching Rules" RFC 4517 DOI 10.17487/RFC4517
.
editor.org/info/rfc4517>

, June 2006,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

Kawamura, S. and M. Kawashima "A Recommendation for IPv6 Address Text
Representation" RFC 5952 DOI 10.17487/RFC5952
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5952>

, August 2010,

<https://

,

,

.

[RFC6066]

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
,
,
Deﬁnitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
editor.org/info/rfc6066>

, January 2011,

.

<https://www.rfc-

[RFC7009]

,
,
Lodderstedt, T., Ed., Dronia, S., and M. Scurtescu "OAuth 2.0 Token Revocation"
, August 2013,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 7009 DOI 10.17487/RFC7009
rfc7009>

,
.

[RFC7518]

[TOKEN]

Jones, M. "JSON Web Algorithms (JWA)" RFC 7518 DOI 10.17487/RFC7518
2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7518>

.

,

,

,

, May

,
Jones, M., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., and W. Denniss "OAuth 2.0 Token Binding"
, 19 October
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-token-binding-08
2018,
.
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-token-binding-08>

,

,

Appendix A.  Example "cnf" Claim, Certiﬁcate, and JWK

For reference, an x5t#S256 value and the X.509 certiﬁcate from which it was calculated are
provided in the following examples, Figures 5 and 6, respectively. A JWK representation of the
certiﬁcate's public key along with the x5c member is also provided in Figure 7.

"cnf":{"x5t#S256":"A4DtL2JmUMhAsvJj5tKyn64SqzmuXbMrJa0n761y5v0"}

Figure 5: x5t#S256 Conﬁrmation Claim

-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
MIIBBjCBrAIBAjAKBggqhkjOPQQDAjAPMQ0wCwYDVQQDDARtdGxzMB4XDTE4MTAx
ODEyMzcwOVoXDTIyMDUwMjEyMzcwOVowDzENMAsGA1UEAwwEbXRsczBZMBMGByqG
SM49AgEGCCqGSM49AwEHA0IABNcnyxwqV6hY8QnhxxzFQ03C7HKW9OylMbnQZjjJ
/Au08/coZwxS7LfA4vOLS9WuneIXhbGGWvsDSb0tH6IxLm8wCgYIKoZIzj0EAwID
SQAwRgIhAP0RC1E+vwJD/D1AGHGzuri+hlV/PpQEKTWUVeORWz83AiEA5x2eXZOV
bUlJSGQgjwD5vaUaKlLR50Q2DmFfQj1L+SY=
-----END CERTIFICATE-----

Figure 6: PEM Encoded Self-Signed Certiﬁcate

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

{
 "kty":"EC",
 "x":"1yfLHCpXqFjxCeHHHMVDTcLscpb07KUxudBmOMn8C7Q",
 "y":"8_coZwxS7LfA4vOLS9WuneIXhbGGWvsDSb0tH6IxLm8",
 "crv":"P-256",
 "x5c":[
  "MIIBBjCBrAIBAjAKBggqhkjOPQQDAjAPMQ0wCwYDVQQDDARtdGxzMB4XDTE4MTA
   xODEyMzcwOVoXDTIyMDUwMjEyMzcwOVowDzENMAsGA1UEAwwEbXRsczBZMBMGBy
   qGSM49AgEGCCqGSM49AwEHA0IABNcnyxwqV6hY8QnhxxzFQ03C7HKW9OylMbnQZ
   jjJ/Au08/coZwxS7LfA4vOLS9WuneIXhbGGWvsDSb0tH6IxLm8wCgYIKoZIzj0E
   AwIDSQAwRgIhAP0RC1E+vwJD/D1AGHGzuri+hlV/PpQEKTWUVeORWz83AiEA5x2
   eXZOVbUlJSGQgjwD5vaUaKlLR50Q2DmFfQj1L+SY="
   ]
 }

Figure 7: JSON Web Key

Appendix B.  Relationship to Token Binding

[TOKEN]

 enables the application of Token Binding to the various

OAuth 2.0 Token Binding
artifacts and tokens employed throughout OAuth. That includes binding of an access token to a
Token Binding key, which bears some similarities in motivation and design to the mutual-TLS
client certiﬁcate-bound access tokens deﬁned in this document. Both documents deﬁne what is
often called a proof-of-possession security mechanism for access tokens, whereby a client must
demonstrate possession of cryptographic keying material when accessing a protected resource.
The details diﬀer somewhat between the two documents but both have the authorization server
bind the access token that it issues to an asymmetric key pair held by the client. The client then
proves possession of the private key from that pair with respect to the TLS connection over
which the protected resource is accessed.

Token Binding uses bare keys that are generated on the client, which avoids many of the
diﬃculties of creating, distributing, and managing certiﬁcates used in this speciﬁcation.
However, at the time of writing, Token Binding is fairly new, and there is relatively little support
for it in available application development platforms and tooling. Until better support for the
underlying core Token Binding speciﬁcations exists, practical implementations of OAuth 2.0
Token Binding are infeasible. Mutual TLS, on the other hand, has been around for some time and
enjoys widespread support in web servers and development platforms. As a consequence, OAuth
2.0 Mutual-TLS Client Authentication and Certiﬁcate-Bound Access Tokens can be built and
deployed now using existing platforms and tools. In the future, the two speciﬁcations are likely to
be deployed in parallel for solving similar problems in diﬀerent environments. Authorization
servers may even support both speciﬁcations simultaneously using diﬀerent proof-of-possession
mechanisms for tokens issued to diﬀerent clients.

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8705

OAuth Mutual TLS

February 2020

Acknowledgements

Scott "not Tomlinson" Tomilson and
work on a mutual-TLS OAuth client authentication implementation that predates this document.
Experience and learning from that work informed some of the content of this document.

 were involved in design and development

Matt Peterson

 and

 with

Rifaat Shekh-Yusef

Eric Rescorla Benjamin Kaduk

 serving as Security Area Directors. Additionally, the following individuals contributed

This speciﬁcation was developed within the OAuth Working Group under the chairmanship of
Hannes Tschofenig
Danyliw
ideas, feedback, and wording that helped shape this speciﬁcation:
Beryozkin Ralph Bragg Sophie Bremer Roman Danyliw Vladimir Dzhuvinov Samuel Erdtman
Evan Gilman Leif Johansson Michael Jones Phil Hunt Benjamin Kaduk Takahiko Kawasaki
,
Sean Leonard Kepeng Li Neil Madden James Manger Jim Manico Nov Matake Sascha
,
Preibisch Eric Rescorla Justin Richer Vincent Roca Filip Skokan Dave Tonge
,
,
Tschofenig

Vittorio Bertocci Sergey
,

,
, and

Hannes

Roman

, and

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Authors' Addresses

Brian Campbell
Ping Identity
Email:

 brian.d.campbell@gmail.com

John Bradley
Yubico
Email:
URI:

 ve7jtb@ve7jtb.com

 http://www.thread-safe.com/

Nat Sakimura
Nomura Research Institute
Email:
URI:

 n-sakimura@nri.co.jp
 https://nat.sakimura.org/

Torsten Lodderstedt
YES.com AG
Email:

 torsten@lodderstedt.net

Campbell, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

