Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8915
Standards Track
September 2020
2070-1721
D. Franke
Akamai

K. Teichel
PTB

D. Sibold
PTB

M. Dansarie

R. Sundblad
Netnod

RFC 8915
Network Time Security for the Network Time
Protocol

Abstract

This memo speciﬁes Network Time Security (NTS), a mechanism for using Transport Layer
Security (TLS) and Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) to provide
cryptographic security for the client-server mode of the Network Time Protocol (NTP).

NTS is structured as a suite of two loosely coupled sub-protocols. The ﬁrst (NTS Key
Establishment (NTS-KE)) handles initial authentication and key establishment over TLS. The
second (NTS Extension Fields for NTPv4) handles encryption and authentication during NTP time
synchronization via extension ﬁelds in the NTP packets, and holds all required state only on the
client via opaque cookies.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8915

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Objectives

1.2.  Terms and Abbreviations

1.3.  Protocol Overview

2.  Requirements Language

3.  TLS Proﬁle for Network Time Security

4.  The NTS Key Establishment Protocol

4.1.  NTS-KE Record Types

4.1.1.  End of Message

4.1.2.  NTS Next Protocol Negotiation

4.1.3.  Error

4.1.4.  Warning

4.1.5.  AEAD Algorithm Negotiation

4.1.6.  New Cookie for NTPv4

4.1.7.  NTPv4 Server Negotiation

4.1.8.  NTPv4 Port Negotiation

4.2.  Retry Intervals

4.3.  Key Extraction (Generally)

5.  NTS Extension Fields for NTPv4

5.1.  Key Extraction (for NTPv4)

5.2.  Packet Structure Overview

5.3.  The Unique Identiﬁer Extension Field

5.4.  The NTS Cookie Extension Field

5.5.  The NTS Cookie Placeholder Extension Field

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

5.6.  The NTS Authenticator and Encrypted Extension Fields Extension Field

5.7.  Protocol Details

6.  Suggested Format for NTS Cookies

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry

7.2.  TLS Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) Protocol IDs Registry

7.3.  TLS Exporter Labels Registry

7.4.  NTP Kiss-o'-Death Codes Registry

7.5.  NTP Extension Field Types Registry

7.6.  Network Time Security Key Establishment Record Types Registry

7.7.  Network Time Security Next Protocols Registry

7.8.  Network Time Security Error and Warning Codes Registries

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Protected Modes

8.2.  Cookie Encryption Key Compromise

8.3.  Sensitivity to DDoS Attacks

8.4.  Avoiding DDoS Ampliﬁcation

8.5.  Initial Veriﬁcation of Server Certiﬁcates

8.6.  Delay Attacks

8.7.  NTS Stripping

9.  Privacy Considerations

9.1.  Unlinkability

9.2.  Conﬁdentiality

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

1.  Introduction

This memo speciﬁes Network Time Security (NTS), a cryptographic security mechanism for
network time synchronization. A complete speciﬁcation is provided for application of NTS to the
client-server mode of the

Network Time Protocol (NTP) [RFC5905]

.

1.1.  Objectives

The objectives of NTS are as follows:

•

Identity: Through the use of a X.509 public key infrastructure, implementations can
cryptographically establish the identity of the parties they are communicating with.

•

Authentication: Implementations can cryptographically verify that any time synchronization
packets are authentic, i.e., that they were produced by an identiﬁed party and have not been
modiﬁed in transit.

•

Conﬁdentiality: Although basic time synchronization data is considered nonconﬁdential and
sent in the clear, NTS includes support for encrypting NTP extension ﬁelds.

•

Replay prevention: Client implementations can detect when a received time synchronization
packet is a replay of a previous packet.

•

Request-response consistency: Client implementations can verify that a time synchronization
packet received from a server was sent in response to a particular request from the client.

•

Unlinkability: For mobile clients, NTS will not leak any information additional to NTP which
would permit a passive adversary to determine that two packets sent over diﬀerent
networks came from the same client.

•

Non-ampliﬁcation: Implementations (especially server implementations) can avoid acting as
distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) ampliﬁers by never responding to a request with a
packet larger than the request packet.

•

Scalability: Server implementations can serve large numbers of clients without having to
retain any client-speciﬁc state.

•

Performance: NTS must not signiﬁcantly degrade the quality of the time transfer. The
encryption and authentication used when actually transferring time should be lightweight
(see Section 5.7 of

RFC 7384 [RFC7384]

).

1.2.  Terms and Abbreviations

AEAD

Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data [RFC5116]

ALPN

Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation [RFC7301]

C2S

DoS

Client-to-server

Denial-of-Service

DDoS

Distributed Denial-of-Service

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

EF

Extension Field [RFC5905]

HKDF

Hashed Message Authentication Code-based Key Derivation Function [RFC5869]

KoD

NTP

NTS

Kiss-o'-Death [RFC5905]

Network Time Protocol [RFC5905]

Network Time Security

NTS NAK

NTS negative-acknowledgment

NTS-KE

Network Time Security Key Establishment

S2C

TLS

Server-to-client

Transport Layer Security [RFC8446]

1.3.  Protocol Overview

RFC 5905 [RFC5905]

The Network Time Protocol includes many diﬀerent operating modes to support various network
topologies (see Section 3 of
). In addition to its best-known and most-widely-
used client-server mode, it also includes modes for synchronization between symmetric peers, a
control mode for server monitoring and administration, and a broadcast mode. These various
modes have diﬀering and partly contradictory requirements for security and performance.
Symmetric and control modes demand mutual authentication and mutual replay protection.
Additionally, for certain message types, the control mode may require conﬁdentiality as well as
authentication. Client-server mode places more stringent requirements on resource utilization
than other modes because servers may have a vast number of clients and be unable to aﬀord to
maintain per-client state. However, client-server mode also has more relaxed security needs
because only the client requires replay protection: it is harmless for stateless servers to process
replayed packets. The security demands of symmetric and control modes, on the other hand, are
in conﬂict with the resource-utilization demands of client-server mode: any scheme that
provides replay protection inherently involves maintaining some state to keep track of which
messages have already been seen.

This memo speciﬁes NTS exclusively for the client-server mode of NTP. To this end, NTS is
structured as a suite of two protocols:

The "NTS Extension Fields for NTPv4" deﬁne a collection of NTP extension ﬁelds for
cryptographically securing NTPv4 using previously established key material. They are
suitable for securing client-server mode because the server can implement them without
retaining per-client state. All state is kept by the client and provided to the server in the form
of an encrypted cookie supplied with each request. On the other hand, the NTS Extension
Fields are suitable only for client-server mode because only the client, and not the server, is
protected from replay.

The "NTS Key Establishment" protocol (NTS-KE) is a mechanism for establishing key material
for use with the NTS Extension Fields for NTPv4. It uses TLS to establish keys, to provide the

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

client with an initial supply of cookies, and to negotiate some additional protocol options.
After this, the TLS channel is closed with no per-client state remaining on the server side.

The typical protocol ﬂow is as follows: The client connects to an NTS-KE server on the NTS TCP
port and the two parties perform a TLS handshake. Via the TLS channel, the parties negotiate
some additional protocol parameters, and the server sends the client a supply of cookies along
TLS
with an address and port of an NTP server for which the cookies are valid. The parties use
key export [RFC5705]
 to extract key material, which will be used in the next phase of the
protocol. This negotiation takes only a single round trip, after which the server closes the
connection and discards all associated state. At this point, the NTS-KE phase of the protocol is
complete. Ideally, the client never needs to connect to the NTS-KE server again.

Time synchronization proceeds with the indicated NTP server. The client sends the server an
NTP client packet that includes several extension ﬁelds. Included among these ﬁelds are a cookie
(previously provided by the key establishment server) and an authentication tag, computed
using key material extracted from the NTS-KE handshake. The NTP server uses the cookie to
recover this key material and send back an authenticated response. The response includes a
fresh, encrypted cookie that the client then sends back in the clear in a subsequent request. This
constant refreshing of cookies is necessary in order to achieve NTS's unlinkability goal.

Figure 1 provides an overview of the high-level interaction between the client, the NTS-KE
server, and the NTP server. Note that the cookies' data format and the exchange of secrets
between NTS-KE and NTP servers are not part of this speciﬁcation and are implementation
dependent. However, a suggested format for NTS cookies is provided in Section 6.

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

                                                     +--------------+
                                                     |              |
                                                 +-> | NTP Server 1 |
                                                 |   |              |
                           Shared cookie         |   +--------------+
+---------------+      encryption parameters     |   +--------------+
|               |    (Implementation dependent)  |   |              |
| NTS-KE Server | <------------------------------+-> | NTP Server 2 |
|               |                                |   |              |
+---------------+                                |   +--------------+
       ^                                         |          .
       |                                         |          .
       | 1. Negotiate parameters,                |          .
       |    receive initial cookie               |   +--------------+
       |    supply, generate AEAD keys,          |   |              |
       |    and receive NTP server IP            +-> | NTP Server N |
       |    addresses using "NTS Key                 |              |
       |    Establishment" protocol.                 +--------------+
       |                                                    ^
       |                                                    |
       |             +----------+                           |
       |             |          |                           |
       +-----------> |  Client  | <-------------------------+
                     |          |  2. Perform authenticated
                     +----------+     time synchronization
                                      and generate new
                                      cookies using "NTS
                                      Extension Fields for
                                      NTPv4".

Figure 1: Overview of High-Level Interactions in NTS

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  TLS Proﬁle for Network Time Security

Network Time Security makes use of TLS for NTS key establishment.

Since the NTS protocol is new as of this publication, no backward-compatibility concerns exist to
justify using obsolete, insecure, or otherwise broken TLS features or versions. Implementations
MUST

 or with a later revision of BCP 195.

RFC 7525 [RFC7525]

 conform with

Implementations
negotiate any TLS version that has been superseded by a later supported version.

 negotiate TLS versions earlier than 1.3

[RFC8446]

MUST NOT

 and

MAY

 refuse to

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

Use of the
support for it is

REQUIRED

 for interoperability.

Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension [RFC7301]

 is integral to NTS, and

MUST

 follow the rules in

RFC 5280 [RFC5280]

Implementations
representation and veriﬁcation of the application's service identity. When NTS-KE service
discovery (out of scope for this document) produces one or more host names, use of the
identiﬁer type [RFC6125]
provide additional guidance for certiﬁcate validation based on the results of discovery. Section
8.5 of this memo discusses particular considerations for certiﬁcate veriﬁcation in the context of
NTS.

; speciﬁcations for service discovery mechanisms can

RFC 6125 [RFC6125]

RECOMMENDED

 for the

DNS-ID

 and

 is

4.  The NTS Key Establishment Protocol

The NTS key establishment protocol is conducted via TCP port 4460. The two endpoints carry out
ALPN extension
a TLS handshake in conformance with Section 3, with the client oﬀering (via an
[RFC7301]
following a successful handshake, the client
encapsulated in the TLS-protected channel. Then, the server
sending their respective request and response, the client and server
"close_notify" alerts in accordance with Section 6.1 of

), and the server accepting, an application-layer protocol of "ntske/1". Immediately
 send a single request as Application Data

SHALL
RFC 8446 [RFC8446]
.

 send a single response. After

 send TLS

SHALL

SHALL

The client's request and the server's response each
formatted according to Figure 2. The request and a non-error response each
exactly one NTS Next Protocol Negotiation record. The sequence
of Message" record. The requirement that all NTS-KE messages be terminated by an End of
Message record makes them self-delimiting.

 consist of a sequence of records

SHALL

SHALL

SHALL

 include

 be terminated by a "End

Clients and servers
accept requests of at least 1024 octets, and clients
octets.

MAY

 enforce length limits on requests and responses; however, servers
 accept responses of at least 65536

SHOULD

MUST

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|C|         Record Type         |          Body Length          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.                           Record Body                         .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: NTS-KE Record Format

The ﬁelds of an NTS-KE record are deﬁned as follows:

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

C (Critical Bit):

Determines the disposition of unrecognized Record Types. Implementations

which receive a record with an unrecognized Record Type
Critical Bit is 0 and

MUST

 treat it as an error if the Critical Bit is 1 (see Section 4.1.3).

 ignore the record if the

MUST

Record Type Number:

A 15-bit integer in network byte order. The semantics of Record Types

0-7 are speciﬁed in this memo. Additional type numbers
"Network Time Security Key Establishment Record Types" registry.

SHALL

 be tracked through the IANA

Body Length:

The length of the Record Body ﬁeld, in octets, as a 16-bit integer in network byte
 have any representable length and need not be aligned to a word

MAY

order. Record bodies
boundary.

Record Body:

The syntax and semantics of this ﬁeld

SHALL

 be determined by the Record Type.

For clarity regarding bit-endianness: the Critical Bit is the most signiﬁcant bit of the ﬁrst octet. In
the C programming language, given a network buﬀer 'unsigned char b[]' containing an NTS-KE
record, the critical bit is 'b[0] >> 7' while the record type is '((b[0] & 0x7f) << 8) + b[1]'.

Note that, although the Type-Length-Body format of an NTS-KE record is similar to that of an NTP
extension ﬁeld, the semantics of the length ﬁeld diﬀer. While the length subﬁeld of an NTP
extension ﬁeld gives the length of the entire extension ﬁeld including the type and length
subﬁelds, the length ﬁeld of an NTS-KE record gives just the length of the body.

Figure 3 provides a schematic overview of the key establishment. It displays the protocol steps to
be performed by the NTS client and server and Record Types to be exchanged.

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

                +---------------------------------------+
                | - Verify client request message.      |
                | - Extract TLS key material.           |
                | - Generate KE response message.       |
                |   - Include Record Types:             |
                |       o NTS Next Protocol Negotiation |
                |       o AEAD Algorithm Negotiation    |
                |       o <NTPv4 Server Negotiation>    |
                |       o <NTPv4 Port Negotiation>      |
                |       o New Cookie for NTPv4          |
                |       o <New Cookie for NTPv4>        |
                |       o End of Message                |
                +-----------------+---------------------+
                                  |
                                  |
Server -----------+---------------+-----+----------------------->
                  ^                      \
                 /                        \
                /    TLS application       \
               /     data                   \
              /                              \
             /                                V
Client -----+---------------------------------+----------------->
            |                                 |
            |                                 |
            |                                 |
+-----------+----------------------+   +------+-----------------+
|- Generate KE request message.    |   |- Verify server response|
| - Include Record Types:          |   |  message.              |
|  o NTS Next Protocol Negotiation |   |- Extract cookie(s).    |
|  o AEAD Algorithm Negotiation    |   +------------------------+
|  o <NTPv4 Server Negotiation>    |
|  o <NTPv4 Port Negotiation>      |
|  o End of Message                |
+----------------------------------+

Figure 3: NTS Key Establishment Messages

4.1.  NTS-KE Record Types

The following NTS-KE Record Types are deﬁned:

4.1.1.  End of Message

The End of Message record has a Record Type number of 0 and a zero-length body. It
exactly once as the ﬁnal record of every NTS-KE request and response. The Critical Bit
set.

MUST

 occur
 be

MUST

4.1.2.  NTS Next Protocol Negotiation

The NTS Next Protocol Negotiation record has a Record Type number of 1. It
once in every NTS-KE request and response. Its body consists of a sequence of 16-bit unsigned
integers in network byte order. Each integer represents a Protocol ID from the IANA "Network
Time Security Next Protocols" registry (Section 7.7). The Critical Bit

 be set.

MUST

MUST

 occur exactly

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

The Protocol IDs listed in the client's NTS Next Protocol Negotiation record denote those
protocols that the client wishes to speak using the key material established through this NTS-KE
session. Protocol IDs listed in the NTS-KE server's response
listed in the request and denote those protocols that the NTP server is willing and able to speak
using the key material established through this NTS-KE session. The client
or more of them. The request

MAY
 list at least one protocol, but the response

 proceed with one
 be empty.
MAY

 comprise a subset of those

MUST

MUST

4.1.3.  Error

The Error record has a Record Type number of 2. Its body is exactly two octets long, consisting of
an unsigned 16-bit integer in network byte order, denoting an error code. The Critical Bit
be set.

MUST

MUST NOT

Clients
includes an Error record, they
exchange and
MUST NOT
described in Section 4.2.

 include Error records in their request. If clients receive a server response that

MUST

 discard any key material negotiated during the initial TLS

 proceed to the Next Protocol. Requirements for retry intervals are

The following error codes are deﬁned:

Error code 0 means "Unrecognized Critical Record". The server
code if the request included a record that the server did not understand and that had its
Critical Bit set. The client

 retry its request without modiﬁcation.

SHOULD NOT

 respond with this error

MUST

Error code 1 means "Bad Request". The server
not complete and syntactically well-formed, or, upon the expiration of an implementation-
deﬁned timeout, it has not yet received such a request. The client
request without modiﬁcation.

 respond with this error if the request is

SHOULD NOT

 retry its

MUST

Error code 2 means "Internal Server Error". The server
unable to respond properly due to an internal condition. The client

MUST

 respond with this error if it is

MAY

 retry its request.

4.1.4.  Warning

The Warning record has a Record Type number of 3. Its body is exactly two octets long,
consisting of an unsigned 16-bit integer in network byte order, denoting a warning code. The
Critical Bit

 be set.

MUST

MUST NOT

Clients
that includes a Warning record, they
proceeding to the Next Protocol. Unrecognized warning codes

MAY

 include Warning records in their request. If clients receive a server response

 discard any negotiated key material and abort without

MUST

 be treated as errors.

This memo deﬁnes no warning codes.

4.1.5.  AEAD Algorithm Negotiation

The AEAD Algorithm Negotiation record has a Record Type number of 4. Its body consists of a
sequence of unsigned 16-bit integers in network byte order, denoting Numeric Identiﬁers from
the IANA

"AEAD Algorithms" registry [IANA-AEAD]

. The Critical Bit

 be set.

MAY

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

If the NTS Next Protocol Negotiation record oﬀers Protocol ID 0 (for NTPv4), then this record
MUST

 be included exactly once. Other protocols

 require it as well.

MAY

When included in a request, this record denotes which AEAD algorithms the client is willing to
use to secure the Next Protocol, in decreasing preference order. When included in a response,
this record denotes which algorithm the server chooses to use. It is empty if the server supports
none of the algorithms oﬀered. In requests, the list
responses, it
:
OPTIONAL
servers may select among any of the client's oﬀered choices, even if they are able to support
some other algorithm that the client prefers more.

 include at most one. Honoring the client's preference order is

 include at least one algorithm. In

MUST

MUST

NTS Extension Fields for NTPv4 (Section 5) MUST

Server implementations of
AEAD_AES_SIV_CMAC_256 [RFC5297]
AEAD_AES_SIV_CMAC_256 in its AEAD Algorithm Negotiation record, and the server accepts
Protocol ID 0 (NTPv4) in its NTS Next Protocol Negotiation record, then the server's AEAD
 be empty.
Algorithm Negotiation record

 (Numeric Identiﬁer 15). That is, if the client includes

MUST NOT

 support

4.1.6.  New Cookie for NTPv4

The New Cookie for NTPv4 record has a Record Type number of 5. The contents of its body
SHALL
for a suggested construction.

 be implementation-deﬁned, and clients

 attempt to interpret them. See Section 6

MUST NOT

SHOULD

MUST NOT

 send records of this type. Servers

Clients
and
Protocol ID 0 (NTPv4) and the AEAD Algorithm Negotiation response record is not empty. The
Critical Bit

 send eight of them, if the Next Protocol Negotiation response record contains

 send at least one record of this type,

SHOULD NOT

 be set.

MUST

4.1.7.  NTPv4 Server Negotiation

 string. The contents of the string

The NTPv4 Server Negotiation record has a Record Type number of 6. Its body consists of an
ASCII-encoded [RFC0020]
IPv6 address, or a fully qualiﬁed domain name (FQDN). IPv4 addresses
 conform to the "Text Representation of Addresses" as
decimal notation. IPv6 addresses
MUST
speciﬁed in
. If a label
contains at least one non-ASCII character, it is an internationalized domain name, and an A-
LABEL
domain name, the recipient

RFC 5890 [RFC5890]
 treat it as a FQDN, e.g., by making sure it ends with a dot.

 be used as deﬁned in Section 2.3.2.1 of

 include zone identiﬁers

RFC 4291 [RFC4291]

 be in dotted

[RFC6874]

MUST NOT

 be either an IPv4 address, an

. If the record contains a

SHALL

MUST

MUST

MUST

 and

When NTPv4 is negotiated as a Next Protocol and this record is sent by the server, the body
speciﬁes the hostname or IP address of the NTPv4 server with which the client should associate
and that will accept the supplied cookies. If no record of this type is sent, the client
interpret this as a directive to associate with an NTPv4 server at the same IP address as the NTS-
 send more than one record of this type.
KE server. Servers

MUST NOT

SHALL

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

When this record is sent by the client, it indicates that the client wishes to associate with the
speciﬁed NTP server. The NTS-KE server
 incorporate this request when deciding which
NTPv4 Server Negotiation records to respond with, but honoring the client's preference is
OPTIONAL

 send more than one record of this type.

. The client

MUST NOT

MAY

If the client has sent a record of this type, the NTS-KE server
 reply with the same record
if it is valid and the server is able to supply cookies for it. If the client has not sent any record of
this type, the NTS-KE server
family as the NTS-KE session or a FQDN that can be resolved to an address in that family, if such
alternatives are available.

 respond with either an NTP server address in the same

SHOULD

SHOULD

Servers

MAY

 set the Critical Bit on records of this type; clients

.
SHOULD NOT

4.1.8.  NTPv4 Port Negotiation

The NTPv4 Port Negotiation record has a Record Type number of 7. Its body consists of a 16-bit
unsigned integer in network byte order, denoting a UDP port number.

When NTPv4 is negotiated as a Next Protocol, and this record is sent by the server, the body
speciﬁes the port number of the NTPv4 server with which the client should associate and that
will accept the supplied cookies. If no record of this type is sent, the client
default of 123 (the registered port number for NTP).

 assume a

SHALL

When this record is sent by the client in conjunction with a NTPv4 Server Negotiation record, it
indicates that the client wishes to associate with the NTP server at the speciﬁed port. The NTS-KE
server
Port Negotiation records to respond with, but honoring the client's preference is

 incorporate this request when deciding what NTPv4 Server Negotiation and NTPv4

.
OPTIONAL

MAY

Servers

MAY

 set the Critical Bit on records of this type; clients

.
SHOULD NOT

4.2.  Retry Intervals

A mechanism for not unnecessarily overloading the NTS-KE server is
the key establishment process due to protocol, communication, or other errors. The exact
workings of this will be dependent on the application and operational experience gathered over
time. Until such experience is available, this memo provides the following suggestion.

 when retrying

REQUIRED

SHOULD

 use exponential backoﬀ, with an initial and minimum retry interval of 10

Clients
seconds, a maximum retry interval of 5 days, and a base of 1.5. Thus, the minimum interval in
seconds, 't', for the nth retry is calculated with the following:

t = min(10 * 1.5n-1, 432000).

MUST NOT

Clients
establishment with the NTS-KE server, followed by a successful use of the negotiated Next
Protocol with the keys and data established during that transaction.

 reset the retry interval until they have performed a successful key

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

4.3.  Key Extraction (Generally)

Following a successful run of the NTS-KE protocol, key material
HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation Function (HKDF) [RFC5869]
Section 7.5 of
. Inputs to the exporter function are to be constructed in a
manner speciﬁc to the negotiated Next Protocol. However, all protocols that utilize NTS-KE
conform to the following two rules:

RFC 8446 [RFC8446]

 be extracted using

SHALL

the

 in accordance with

MUST

The

disambiguating label string [RFC5705] MUST

 be "EXPORTER-network-time-security".

per-association context value [RFC5705] MUST

The
two-octet Protocol ID that was negotiated as a Next Protocol.

 be provided and

MUST

 begin with the

5.  NTS Extension Fields for NTPv4

5.1.  Key Extraction (for NTPv4)

Following a successful run of the NTS-KE protocol wherein Protocol ID 0 (NTPv4) is selected as a
Next Protocol, two AEAD keys
client (S2C) key. These keys
[RFC8446]

 be extracted: a client-to-server (C2S) key and a server-to-

 be computed with the HKDF deﬁned in Section 7.5 of

 using the following inputs:

SHALL

SHALL

RFC 8446

The

disambiguating label string [RFC5705] SHALL

 be "EXPORTER-network-time-security".

The

per-association context value [RFC5705] SHALL

 consist of the following ﬁve octets:

◦

◦

◦

The ﬁrst two octets

SHALL

 be zero (the Protocol ID for NTPv4).

The next two octets
network byte order.

SHALL

 be the Numeric Identiﬁer of the negotiated AEAD algorithm in

The ﬁnal octet

SHALL

 be 0x00 for the C2S key and 0x01 for the S2C key.

Implementations wishing to derive additional keys for private or experimental use
so by extending the above-speciﬁed syntax for per-association context values. Instead, they
SHOULD
disambiguating label strings beginning with "EXPERIMENTAL"
registration.

 use their own disambiguating label string. Note that

 be used without IANA

RFC 5705 [RFC5705]

MAY

 provides that

MUST NOT

 do

5.2.  Packet Structure Overview

In general, an NTS-protected NTPv4 packet consists of the following:

The usual 48-octet NTP header, which is authenticated but not encrypted.

Some extension ﬁelds, which are authenticated but not encrypted.

An extension ﬁeld that contains AEAD output (i.e., an authentication tag and possible
ciphertext). The corresponding plaintext, if non-empty, consists of some extension ﬁelds that
beneﬁt from both encryption and authentication.

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

Possibly, some additional extension ﬁelds that are neither encrypted nor authenticated. In
general, these are discarded by the receiver.

Always included among the authenticated or authenticated-and-encrypted extension ﬁelds are a
cookie extension ﬁeld and a unique identiﬁer extension ﬁeld, as described in Section 5.7. The
purpose of the cookie extension ﬁeld is to enable the server to oﬄoad storage of session state
onto the client. The purpose of the unique identiﬁer extension ﬁeld is to protect the client from
replay attacks.

5.3.  The Unique Identiﬁer Extension Field

The Unique Identiﬁer extension ﬁeld provides the client with a cryptographically strong means
of detecting replayed packets. It has a Field Type of 0x0104. When the extension ﬁeld is included
in a client packet (mode 3), its body
cryptographically secure random number generator [RFC4086]
octets long. When the extension ﬁeld is included in a server packet (mode 4), its body
contain the same octet string as was provided in the client packet to which the server is
responding. All server packets generated by NTS-implementing servers in response to client
packets containing this extension ﬁeld
MUST
the client's request. The ﬁeld's use in modes other than client-server is not deﬁned.

 also contain this ﬁeld with the same content as in

 consist of a string of octets generated by a

 be at least 32

. The string

SHALL

SHALL

MUST

MAY

This extension ﬁeld
 also be used standalone, without NTS, in which case it provides the
client with a means of detecting spoofed packets from oﬀ-path attackers. Historically, NTP's
origin timestamp ﬁeld has played both these roles, but this is suboptimal for cryptographic
purposes because it is only 64 bits long, and depending on implementation details, most of those
bits may be predictable. In contrast, the Unique Identiﬁer extension ﬁeld enables a degree of
unpredictability and collision resistance more consistent with cryptographic best practice.

5.4.  The NTS Cookie Extension Field

The NTS Cookie extension ﬁeld has a Field Type of 0x0204. Its purpose is to carry information
that enables the server to recompute keys and other session state without having to store any
per-client state. The contents of its body
attempt to interpret them. See Section 6 for a suggested construction. The NTS Cookie extension
ﬁeld

 be included in NTP packets whose mode is other than 3 (client) or 4 (server).

 be implementation-deﬁned, and clients

MUST NOT

SHALL

MUST NOT

5.5.  The NTS Cookie Placeholder Extension Field

The NTS Cookie Placeholder extension ﬁeld has a Field Type of 0x0304. When this extension ﬁeld
is included in a client packet (mode 3), it communicates to the server that the client wishes it to
send additional cookies in its response. This extension ﬁeld
packets whose mode is other than 3.

 be included in NTP

MUST NOT

 be accompanied by an
Whenever an NTS Cookie Placeholder extension ﬁeld is present, it
NTS Cookie extension ﬁeld. The body length of the NTS Cookie Placeholder extension ﬁeld
MUST
be the same as the body length of the NTS Cookie extension ﬁeld. This length requirement serves
to ensure that the response will not be larger than the request, in order to improve timekeeping

MUST

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

precision and prevent DDoS ampliﬁcation. The contents of the NTS Cookie Placeholder extension
ﬁeld's body
server.

 be all zeros and, aside from checking its length,

 be ignored by the

SHOULD

MUST

5.6.  The NTS Authenticator and Encrypted Extension Fields Extension Field

The NTS Authenticator and Encrypted Extension Fields extension ﬁeld is the central
cryptographic element of an NTS-protected NTP packet. Its Field Type is 0x0404. It
formatted according to Figure 4 and include the following ﬁelds:

SHALL

 be

Nonce Length:

Two octets in network byte order, giving the length of the Nonce ﬁeld, excluding

any padding, interpreted as an unsigned integer.

Ciphertext Length:

Two octets in network byte order, giving the length of the Ciphertext ﬁeld,

excluding any padding, interpreted as an unsigned integer.

Nonce:

A nonce as required by the negotiated AEAD algorithm. The end of the ﬁeld is zero-

padded to a word (four octets) boundary.

Ciphertext:

The output of the negotiated AEAD algorithm. The structure of this ﬁeld is

determined by the negotiated algorithm, but it typically contains an authentication tag in
addition to the actual ciphertext. The end of the ﬁeld is zero-padded to a word (four octets)
boundary.

Additional Padding:

Clients that use a nonce length shorter than the maximum allowed by the

negotiated AEAD algorithm may be required to include additional zero-padding. The
necessary length of this ﬁeld is speciﬁed below.

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|          Nonce Length         |      Ciphertext Length        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.          Nonce, including up to 3 octets padding              .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.        Ciphertext, including up to 3 octets padding           .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
.                                                               .
.                      Additional Padding                       .
.                                                               .
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: NTS Authenticator and Encrypted Extension Fields Extension Field Format

The Ciphertext ﬁeld
algorithm:

SHALL

 be formed by providing the following inputs to the negotiated AEAD

K:

A:

P:

For packets sent from the client to the server, the C2S key
 be used.
from the server to the client, the S2C key

SHALL

SHALL

 be used. For packets sent

The associated data
of the NTP header and ending at the end of the last extension ﬁeld that precedes the NTS
Authenticator and Encrypted Extension Fields extension ﬁeld.

 consist of the portion of the NTP packet beginning from the start

SHALL

 consist of all (if any) NTP extension ﬁelds to be encrypted; if multiple

The plaintext
SHALL
extension ﬁelds are present, they
be formatted in accordance with
requirement that ﬁelds have a minimum length of 16 or 28 octets, encrypted extension ﬁelds
MAY

SHALL
, except that, contrary to the RFC 7822

SHALL
RFC 7822 [RFC7822]

 be joined by concatenation. Each such ﬁeld

 be a multiple of 4 octets in length).

 be arbitrarily short (but still

MUST

N:

The nonce

SHALL

 be formed however required by the negotiated AEAD algorithm.

The purpose of the Additional Padding ﬁeld is to ensure that servers can always choose a nonce
whose length is adequate to ensure its uniqueness, even if the client chooses a shorter one, and
still ensure that the overall length of the server's response packet does not exceed the length of
the request. For mode 4 (server) packets, no Additional Padding ﬁeld is ever required. For mode 3
(client) packets, the length of the Additional Padding ﬁeld
'N_LEN' be the padded length of the Nonce ﬁeld. Let 'N_MAX' be, as speciﬁed by
[RFC5116]

, the maximum permitted nonce length for the negotiated AEAD algorithm. Let 'N_REQ'

 be computed as follows. Let

RFC 5116

SHALL

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

be the lesser of 16 and N_MAX, rounded up to the nearest multiple of 4. If N_LEN is greater than
or equal to N_REQ, then no Additional Padding ﬁeld is required. Otherwise, the Additional
Padding ﬁeld
 enforce this
requirement by discarding any packet that does not conform to it.

 be at least N_REQ - N_LEN octets in length. Servers

SHALL

MUST

Senders are always free to include more Additional Padding than mandated by the above
paragraph. Theoretically, it could be necessary to do so in order to bring the extension ﬁeld to the
minimum length required by
. This should never happen in practice because
any reasonable AEAD algorithm will have a nonce and an authenticator long enough to bring the
extension ﬁeld to its required length already. Nonetheless, implementers are advised to explicitly
handle this case and ensure that the extension ﬁeld they emit is of legal length.

RFC 7822 [RFC7822]

The NTS Authenticator and Encrypted Extension Fields extension ﬁeld
NTP packets whose mode is other than 3 (client) or 4 (server).

MUST NOT

 be included in

5.7.  Protocol Details

A client sending an NTS-protected request
displayed in Figure 5:

SHALL

 include the following extension ﬁelds as

Exactly one Unique Identiﬁer extension ﬁeld that
encrypted, and whose contents
number generator [RFC4086]

MUST
 be the output of a

MUST

.

 be authenticated,
cryptographically secure random

MUST NOT

 be

 be authenticated and
Exactly one NTS Cookie extension ﬁeld that
encrypted. The cookie
 be one which has been previously provided to the client, either
from the key establishment server during the NTS-KE handshake or from the NTP server in
response to a previous NTS-protected NTP request.

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

 be

Exactly one NTS Authenticator and Encrypted Extension Fields extension ﬁeld, generated
using an AEAD algorithm and C2S key established through NTS-KE.

To protect the client's privacy, the client
have any cookies that it has not already sent, it
The client
that should be prioritized in any particular case is dependent on the application and the user's
preference. Section 9.1 describes the privacy considerations of this in further detail.

 reuse cookies in order to prioritize resilience over unlinkability. Which of the two

 avoid reusing a cookie. If the client does not

 initiate a rerun of the NTS-KE protocol.

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

 include one or more NTS Cookie Placeholder extension ﬁelds that

 be encrypted. The number of NTS Cookie Placeholder extension ﬁelds
SHOULD

The client
authenticated and
MAY
that the client includes
sends back N+1 cookies, the number of unused cookies stored by the client will come to eight.
The client
 include more than seven NTS Cookie Placeholder extension ﬁelds in a
request. When both the client and server adhere to all cookie-management guidance provided in
this memo, the number of placeholder extension ﬁelds will equal the number of dropped packets
since the last successful volley.

 be such that if the client includes N placeholders and the server

SHOULD NOT

MUST

 be

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

In rare circumstances, it may be necessary to include fewer NTS Cookie Placeholder extensions
than recommended above in order to prevent datagram fragmentation. When cookies adhere to
the format recommended in Section 6 and the AEAD in use is the mandatory-to-implement
AEAD_AES_SIV_CMAC_256, senders can include a cookie and seven placeholders and still have
packet size fall comfortably below 1280 octets if no non-NTS-related extensions are used; 1280
octets is the minimum prescribed MTU for IPv6 and is generally safe for avoiding IPv4
fragmentation. Nonetheless, senders
otherwise indicated if doing so is necessary to prevent fragmentation.

 include fewer cookies and placeholders than

SHOULD

                +---------------------------------------+
                | - Verify time request message.        |
                | - Generate time response message.     |
                |   - Included NTPv4 extension fields:  |
                |      o Unique Identifier EF           |
                |      o NTS Authentication and         |
                |        Encrypted Extension Fields EF  |
                |        - NTS Cookie EF                |
                |        - <NTS Cookie EF>              |
                | - Transmit time request packet.       |
                +-----------------+---------------------+
                                  |
                                  |
Server -----------+---------------+-----+----------------------->
                  ^                      \
                 /                        \
  Time request  /                          \   Time response
  (mode 3)     /                            \  (mode 4)
              /                              \
             /                                V
Client -----+---------------------------------+----------------->
            |                                 |
            |                                 |
            |                                 |
+-----------+-----------------------+   +-----+------------------+
|- Generate time request message.   |   |- Verify time response  |
| - Include NTPv4 Extension fields: |   |  message.              |
|    o Unique Identifier EF         |   |- Extract cookie(s).    |
|    o NTS Cookie EF                |   |- Time synchronization  |
|    o <NTS Cookie Placeholder EF>  |   |  processing.           |
|                                   |   +------------------------+
|- Generate AEAD tag of NTP message.|
|- Add NTS Authentication and       |
|  Encrypted Extension Fields EF.   |
|- Transmit time request packet.    |
+-----------------------------------+

Figure 5: NTS-Protected NTP Time Synchronization Messages

MAY

 include additional (non-NTS-related) extension ﬁelds that

The client
NTS Authenticator and Encrypted Extension Fields extension ﬁelds (therefore authenticated but
not encrypted), within it (therefore encrypted and authenticated), or after it (therefore neither
encrypted nor authenticated). The server
Future speciﬁcations of extension ﬁelds

 discard any unauthenticated extension ﬁelds.

 provide exceptions to this rule.

 appear prior to the

MUST

MAY

MAY

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

Upon receiving an NTS-protected request, the server
deﬁned mechanism) use the cookie to recover the AEAD algorithm, C2S key, and S2C key
associated with the request, and then use the C2S key to authenticate the packet and decrypt the
ciphertext. If the cookie is valid and authentication and decryption succeed, the server
include the following extension ﬁelds in its response:

 (through some implementation-

SHALL

SHALL

Exactly one Unique Identiﬁer extension ﬁeld that
encrypted, and whose contents

 be authenticated,
 echo those provided by the client.

SHALL

MUST

MUST NOT

 be

Exactly one NTS Authenticator and Encrypted Extension Fields extension ﬁeld, generated
using the AEAD algorithm and S2C key recovered from the cookie provided by the client.

One or more NTS Cookie extension ﬁelds that
number of NTS Cookie extension ﬁelds included
MUST NOT
one plus the number of valid NTS Cookie Placeholder extension ﬁelds included in the
request. The cookies returned in those ﬁelds
sent them. They
server to indicate this.

 be valid for other NTP servers as well, but there is no way for the

 be authenticated and encrypted. The

 be valid for use with the NTP server that

 be equal to, and

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

MAY

 exceed,

MUST

 be encrypted when sent from server to client. The former is

We emphasize the contrast that NTS Cookie extension ﬁelds
from client to server but
necessary in order for the server to be able to recover the C2S and S2C keys, while the latter is
necessary to satisfy the unlinkability goals discussed in Section 9.1. We emphasize also that
"encrypted" means encapsulated within the NTS Authenticator and Encrypted Extensions
extension ﬁeld. While the body of an NTS Cookie extension ﬁeld will generally consist of some
sort of AEAD output (regardless of whether the recommendations of Section 6 are precisely
followed), this is not suﬃcient to make the extension ﬁeld "encrypted".

 be encrypted when sent

MUST NOT

MAY

 include additional (non-NTS-related) extension ﬁelds that

 appear prior to
The server
the NTS Authenticator and Encrypted Extension Fields extension ﬁeld (therefore authenticated
but not encrypted), within it (therefore encrypted and authenticated), or after it (therefore
neither encrypted nor authenticated). The client
ﬁelds. Future speciﬁcations of extension ﬁelds

 discard any unauthenticated extension

 provide exceptions to this rule.

MUST

MAY

MAY

Upon receiving an NTS-protected response, the client
matches that of an outstanding request, and that the packet is authentic under the S2C key
associated with that request. If either of these checks fails, the packet
further processing. In particular, the client
requests.

 be discarded without
MUST
 discard unprotected responses to NTS-protected

 verify that the Unique Identiﬁer

MUST

MUST

If the server is unable to validate the cookie or authenticate the request, it
a Kiss-o'-Death (KoD) packet (see Section 7.4 of
RFC 5905 [RFC5905]
meaning "NTS NAK" (NTS negative-acknowledgment). It
MUST NOT
NTS Authenticator and Encrypted Extension Fields extension ﬁelds.

SHOULD
) with kiss code "NTSN",
 include any NTS Cookie or

 respond with

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

 verify that any KoD packets received from the server contain the Unique Identiﬁer

If the NTP server has previously responded with authentic NTS-protected NTP packets, the client
MUST
extension ﬁeld and that the Unique Identiﬁer matches that of an outstanding request. If this
check fails, the packet
client

 be discarded without further processing. If this check passes, the

MUST
 comply with Section 7.4 of

RFC 5905 [RFC5905]

 where required.

MUST

A client
MAY
server. In that case, it
limiting the retries. Requirements for retry intervals in NTS-KE are described in Section 4.2.

 automatically rerun the NTS-KE protocol upon forced disassociation from an NTP
 avoid quickly looping between the NTS-KE and NTP servers by rate

MUST

Upon reception of the NTS NAK kiss code, the client
NTS-protected response, and if none is received, initiate a fresh NTS-KE handshake to try to
renegotiate new cookies, AEAD keys, and parameters. If the NTS-KE handshake succeeds, the
client
NTS-KE handshake has not succeeded, the client
the cookies and parameters it has.

 discard all old cookies and parameters and use the new ones instead. As long as the
 continue polling the NTP server using
SHOULD

 wait until the next poll for a valid

SHOULD

MUST

To allow for NTP session restart when the NTS-KE server is unavailable and to reduce NTS-KE
server load, the client
AEAD algorithm, and other necessary parameters in persistent storage. This way, the client is
able to resume the NTP session without performing renewed NTS-KE negotiation.

 keep at least one unused but recent cookie, AEAD keys, negotiated

SHOULD

6.  Suggested Format for NTS Cookies

This section is non-normative. It gives a suggested way for servers to construct NTS cookies. All
normative requirements are stated in Section 4.1.6 and Section 5.4.

The role of cookies in NTS is closely analogous to that of session tickets in TLS. Accordingly, the
thematic resemblance of this section to
 is deliberate, and the reader should
likewise take heed of its security considerations.

RFC 5077 [RFC5077]

Servers should select an AEAD algorithm that they will use to encrypt and authenticate cookies.
The chosen algorithm should be one such as
, which resists
accidental nonce reuse. It need not be the same as the one that was negotiated with the client.
Servers should randomly generate and store a secret master AEAD key 'K'. Servers should
additionally choose a non-secret, unique value 'I' as key identiﬁer for 'K'.

AEAD_AES_SIV_CMAC_256 [RFC5297]

Servers should periodically (e.g., once daily) generate a new pair '(I,K)' and immediately switch to
using these values for all newly-generated cookies. Following each such key rotation, servers
should securely erase any previously generated keys that should now be expired. Servers should
continue to accept any cookie generated using keys that they have not yet erased, even if those
keys are no longer current. Erasing old keys provides for forward secrecy, limiting the scope of
what old information can be stolen if a master key is somehow compromised. Holding on to a
limited number of old keys allows clients to seamlessly transition from one generation to the
next without having to perform a new NTS-KE handshake.

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

The need to keep keys synchronized between NTS-KE and NTP servers as well as across load-
balanced clusters can make automatic key rotation challenging. However, the task can be
accomplished without the need for central key-management infrastructure by using a ratchet,
i.e., making each new key a deterministic, cryptographically pseudorandom function of its
predecessor. A recommended concrete implementation of this approach is to use
[RFC5869]
identiﬁer as a salt.

 to derive new keys, using the key's predecessor as Input Keying Material and its key

HKDF

To form a cookie, servers should ﬁrst form a plaintext 'P' consisting of the following ﬁelds:

The AEAD algorithm negotiated during NTS-KE.

The S2C key.

The C2S key.

Servers should then generate a nonce 'N' uniformly at random, and form AEAD output 'C' by
encrypting 'P' under key 'K' with nonce 'N' and no associated data.

The cookie should consist of the tuple '(I,N,C)'.

To verify and decrypt a cookie provided by the client, ﬁrst parse it into its components 'I', 'N', and
'C'. Use 'I' to look up its decryption key 'K'. If the key whose identiﬁer is 'I' has been erased or
never existed, decryption fails; reply with an NTS NAK. Otherwise, attempt to decrypt and verify
ciphertext 'C' using key 'K' and nonce 'N' with no associated data. If decryption or veriﬁcation
fails, reply with an NTS NAK. Otherwise, parse out the contents of the resulting plaintext 'P' to
obtain the negotiated AEAD algorithm, S2C key, and C2S key.

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry

IANA has allocated the following entry in the "Service Name and Transport Protocol Port
Number Registry"

[RFC6335]

:

Service Name:

ntske

Port Number:

4460

Transport Protocol:

tcp

Description:

Network Time Security Key Establishment

Assignee:

IESG <iesg@ietf.org>

Contact:

IETF Chair <chair@ietf.org>

Registration Date:

2020-04-07

Reference:

RFC 8915

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

7.2.  TLS Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) Protocol IDs
Registry

IANA has allocated the following entry in the "TLS Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN)
Protocol IDs" registry

[RFC7301]

:

Protocol:

Network Time Security Key Establishment, version 1

Identiﬁcation Sequence:

0x6E 0x74 0x73 0x6B 0x65 0x2F 0x31 ("ntske/1")

Reference:

RFC 8915, Section 4

7.3.  TLS Exporter Labels Registry

IANA has allocated the following entry in the

TLS Exporter Labels registry [RFC5705]
:

Value

DTLS-
OK

Recommended

Reference

Note

EXPORTER-network-time-
security

Y

Y

RFC 8915, Section
4.3

Table 1

7.4.  NTP Kiss-o'-Death Codes Registry

IANA has allocated the following entry in the "NTP Kiss-o'-Death Codes" registry

[RFC5905]
:

Code Meaning

NTSN Network Time Security (NTS) negative-acknowledgment

(NAK)

Table 2

Reference

RFC 8915, Section
5.7

7.5.  NTP Extension Field Types Registry

IANA has allocated the following entries in the "NTP Extension Field Types" registry

[RFC5905]

:

Field Type Meaning

0x0104

Unique Identiﬁer

0x0204

NTS Cookie

Reference

RFC 8915, Section 5.3

RFC 8915, Section 5.4

0x0304

NTS Cookie Placeholder

RFC 8915, Section 5.5

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

Field Type Meaning

Reference

0x0404

NTS Authenticator and Encrypted Extension Fields

RFC 8915, Section 5.6

Table 3

7.6.  Network Time Security Key Establishment Record Types Registry

IANA has created a new registry entitled "Network Time Security Key Establishment Record
Types". Entries have the following ﬁelds:

Record Type Number (

REQUIRED

):

An integer in the range 0-32767 inclusive.

Description (

REQUIRED

):

A short text description of the purpose of the ﬁeld.

Reference (

REQUIRED

):

A reference to a document specifying the semantics of the record.

The registration policy varies by Record Type Number, as follows:

0-1023:

IETF Review

1024-16383:

Speciﬁcation Required

16384-32767:

Private or Experimental Use

The initial contents of this registry are as follows:

Record Type Number Description

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

End of Message

RFC 8915, Section 4.1.1

NTS Next Protocol Negotiation

RFC 8915, Section 4.1.2

Error

Warning

RFC 8915, Section 4.1.3

RFC 8915, Section 4.1.4

AEAD Algorithm Negotiation

RFC 8915, Section 4.1.5

New Cookie for NTPv4

RFC 8915, Section 4.1.6

NTPv4 Server Negotiation

RFC 8915, Section 4.1.7

NTPv4 Port Negotiation

RFC 8915, Section 4.1.8

8-16383

Unassigned

16384-32767

Reserved for Private or Experimental Use

RFC 8915

Table 4

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

7.7.  Network Time Security Next Protocols Registry

IANA has created a new registry entitled "Network Time Security Next Protocols". Entries have
the following ﬁelds:

Protocol ID (

REQUIRED

):

An integer in the range 0-65535 inclusive, functioning as an identiﬁer.

Protocol Name (

REQUIRED

):

A short text string naming the protocol being identiﬁed.

Reference (

REQUIRED

):

A reference to a relevant speciﬁcation document.

The registration policy varies by Protocol ID, as follows:

0-1023:

IETF Review

1024-32767:

Speciﬁcation Required

32768-65535:

Private or Experimental Use

The initial contents of this registry are as follows:

Protocol ID

Protocol Name

Reference

0

Network Time Protocol version 4 (NTPv4)

RFC 8915

1-32767

Unassigned

32768-65535

Reserved for Private or Experimental Use

RFC 8915

Table 5

7.8.  Network Time Security Error and Warning Codes Registries

IANA has created two new registries entitled "Network Time Security Error Codes" and "Network
Time Security Warning Codes". Entries in each have the following ﬁelds:

Number (

REQUIRED

):

An integer in the range 0-65535 inclusive

Description (

REQUIRED

):

A short text description of the condition.

Reference (

REQUIRED

):

A reference to a relevant speciﬁcation document.

The registration policy varies by Number, as follows:

0-1023:

IETF Review

1024-32767:

Speciﬁcation Required

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

32768-65535: Private or Experimental Use

The initial contents of the "Network Time Security Error Codes" registry are as follows:

Number

Description

Reference

0

1

2

Unrecognized Critical Record

RFC 8915, Section 4.1.3

Bad Request

RFC 8915, Section 4.1.3

Internal Server Error

RFC 8915, Section 4.1.3

3-32767

Unassigned

32768-65535

Reserved for Private or Experimental Use

RFC 8915

Table 6

The "Network Time Security Warning Codes" registry is initially empty except for the reserved
range, i.e.:

Number

Description

Reference

0-32767

Unassigned

32768-65535

Reserved for Private or Experimental Use

RFC 8915

Table 7

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Protected Modes

NTP provides many diﬀerent operating modes in order to support diﬀerent network topologies
and to adapt to various requirements. This memo only speciﬁes NTS for NTP modes 3 (client) and
4 (server) (see Section 1.3). The best current practice for authenticating the other NTP modes is
using the symmetric message authentication code feature as described in
RFC 5905 [RFC5905]
and

RFC 8573 [RFC8573]

.

8.2.  Cookie Encryption Key Compromise

If the suggested format for NTS cookies in Section 6 of this document is used, an attacker who has
gained access to the secret cookie encryption key 'K' can impersonate the NTP server, including
 remove compromised keys as
generating new cookies. NTP and NTS-KE server operators
soon as the compromise is discovered. This will cause the NTP servers to respond with NTS NAK,
thus forcing key renegotiation. Note that this measure does not protect against MITM attacks
where the attacker has access to a compromised cookie encryption key. If another cookie scheme
is used, there are likely similar considerations for that particular scheme.

SHOULD

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

8.3.  Sensitivity to DDoS Attacks

The introduction of NTS brings with it the introduction of asymmetric cryptography to NTP.
Asymmetric cryptography is necessary for initial server authentication and AEAD key extraction.
Asymmetric cryptosystems are generally orders of magnitude slower than their symmetric
counterparts. This makes it much harder to build systems that can serve requests at a rate
corresponding to the full line speed of the network connection. This, in turn, opens up a new
possibility for DDoS attacks on NTP services.

The main protection against these attacks in NTS lies in that the use of asymmetric cryptosystems
is only necessary in the initial NTS-KE phase of the protocol. Since the protocol design enables
separation of the NTS-KE and NTP servers, a successful DDoS attack on an NTS-KE server
separated from the NTP service it supports will not aﬀect NTP users that have already performed
initial authentication, AEAD key extraction, and cookie exchange.

NTS users should also consider that they are not fully protected against DoS attacks by on-path
adversaries. In addition to dropping packets and attacks such as those described in Section 8.6,
an on-path attacker can send spoofed Kiss-o'-Death replies, which are not authenticated, in
response to NTP requests. This could result in signiﬁcantly increased load on the NTS-KE server.
Implementers have to weigh the user's need for unlinkability against the added resilience that
comes with cookie reuse in cases of NTS-KE server unavailability.

8.4.  Avoiding DDoS Ampliﬁcation

Certain nonstandard and/or deprecated features of the Network Time Protocol enable clients to
send a request to a server that causes the server to send a response much larger than the
request. Servers that enable these features can be abused in order to amplify traﬃc volume in
DDoS attacks by sending them a request with a spoofed source IP address. In recent years,
attacks of this nature have become an endemic nuisance.

NTS is designed to avoid contributing any further to this problem by ensuring that NTS-related
extension ﬁelds included in server responses will be the same size as the NTS-related extension
ﬁelds sent by the client. In particular, this is why the client is required to send a separate and
appropriately padded-out NTS Cookie Placeholder extension ﬁeld for every cookie it wants to get
back, rather than being permitted simply to specify a desired quantity.

RFC 7822 [RFC7822]

Due to the
boundaries, response size may still in some cases exceed request size by up to three octets. This is
suﬃciently inconsequential that we have declined to address it.

 requirement that extensions be padded and aligned to four-octet

8.5.  Initial Veriﬁcation of Server Certiﬁcates

NTS's security goals are undermined if the client fails to verify that the X.509 certiﬁcate chain
RFC 5280
presented by the NTS-KE server is valid and rooted in a trusted certiﬁcate authority.
[RFC5280]
However, the expectation that the client does not yet have a correctly-set system clock at the time

 specify how such veriﬁcation is to be performed in general.

RFC 6125 [RFC6125]

 and

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

of certiﬁcate veriﬁcation presents diﬃculties with verifying that the certiﬁcate is within its
validity period, i.e., that the current time lies between the times speciﬁed in the certiﬁcate's
notBefore and notAfter ﬁelds. It may be operationally necessary in some cases for a client to
accept a certiﬁcate that appears to be expired or not yet valid. While there is no perfect solution
to this problem, there are several mitigations the client can implement to make it more diﬃcult
for an adversary to successfully present an expired certiﬁcate:

Check whether the system time is in fact unreliable. On systems with the ntp_adjtime()
system call, a return code other than TIME_ERROR indicates that some trusted software has
already set the time and certiﬁcates can be strictly validated.

Allow the system administrator to specify that certiﬁcates should always be strictly
validated. Such a conﬁguration is appropriate on systems that have a battery-backed clock or
that can reasonably prompt the user to manually set an approximately correct time if it
appears to be needed.

Once the clock has been synchronized, periodically write the current system time to
persistent storage. Do not accept any certiﬁcate whose notAfter ﬁeld is earlier than the last
recorded time.

NTP time replies are expected to be consistent with the NTS-KE TLS certiﬁcate validity
period, i.e. time replies received immediately after an NTS-KE handshake are expected to lie
within the certiﬁcate validity period. Implementations are recommended to check that this is
the case. Performing a new NTS-KE handshake based solely on the fact that the certiﬁcate
used by the NTS-KE server in a previous handshake has expired is normally not necessary.
Clients that still wish to do this must take care not to cause an inadvertent denial-of-service
attack on the NTS-KE server, for example by picking a random time in the week preceding
certiﬁcate expiry to perform the new handshake.

Use multiple time sources. The ability to pass oﬀ an expired certiﬁcate is only useful to an
adversary who has compromised the corresponding private key. If the adversary has
compromised only a minority of servers, NTP's selection algorithm (Section 11.2.1 of
5905 [RFC5905]
controlled servers.

) will protect the client from accepting bad time from the adversary-

RFC

8.6.  Delay Attacks

In a packet delay attack, an adversary with the ability to act as a man-in-the-middle delays time
synchronization packets between client and server asymmetrically
. Since NTP's
formula for computing time oﬀset relies on the assumption that network latency is roughly
symmetrical, this leads to the client to compute an inaccurate value
does not reorder or modify the content of the exchanged synchronization packets. Therefore,
cryptographic means do not provide a feasible way to mitigate this attack. However, the
maximum error that an adversary can introduce is bounded by half of the round-trip delay.

. The delay attack

[RFC7384]

[Mizrahi]

RFC 5905 [RFC5905]
trip latency (including not only the immediate round trip between client and server, but the
whole distance back to the reference clock as reported in the Root Delay ﬁeld) that a client will

 speciﬁes a parameter called MAXDIST, which denotes the maximum round-

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

tolerate before concluding that the server is unsuitable for synchronization. The standard value
for MAXDIST is one second, although some implementations use larger values. Whatever value a
client chooses, the maximum error that can be introduced by a delay attack is MAXDIST/2.

[Shpiner]
Usage of multiple time sources, or multiple network paths to a given time source
also serve to mitigate delay attacks if the adversary is in control of only some of the paths.

, may

8.7.  NTS Stripping

Implementers must be aware of the possibility of "NTS stripping" attacks, where an attacker
attempts to trick clients into reverting to plain NTP. Naive client implementations might, for
example, revert automatically to plain NTP if the NTS-KE handshake fails. A man-in-the-middle
attacker can easily cause this to happen. Even clients that already hold valid cookies can be
vulnerable, since an attacker can force a client to repeat the NTS-KE handshake by sending faked
NTP mode 4 replies with the NTS NAK kiss code. Forcing a client to repeat the NTS-KE handshake
can also be the ﬁrst step in more advanced attacks.

For the reasons described here, implementations
SHOULD NOT
unprotected NTP with any server without explicit user action.

 revert from NTS-protected to

9.  Privacy Considerations

9.1.  Unlinkability

Unlinkability prevents a device from being tracked when it changes network addresses (e.g.,
because said device moved between diﬀerent networks). In other words, unlinkability thwarts
an attacker that seeks to link a new network address used by a device with a network address
that it was formerly using because of recognizable data that the device persistently sends as part
of an NTS-secured NTP association. This is the justiﬁcation for continually supplying the client
with fresh cookies, so that a cookie never represents recognizable data in the sense outlined
above.

NTS's unlinkability objective is merely to not leak any additional data that could be used to link a
device's network address. NTS does not rectify legacy linkability issues that are already present
in NTP. Thus, a client that requires unlinkability must also minimize information transmitted in
a client query (mode 3) packet as described in the document
NTP Client Data Minimization [NTP-
.
DATA-MIN]

The unlinkability objective only holds for time synchronization traﬃc, as opposed to key
establishment traﬃc. This implies that it cannot be guaranteed for devices that function not only
as time clients, but also as time servers (because the latter can be externally triggered to send
linkable data, such as the TLS certiﬁcate).

It should also be noted that it could be possible to link devices that operate as time servers from
their time synchronization traﬃc, using information exposed in (mode 4) server response
packets (e.g. reference ID, reference time, stratum, poll). Also, devices that respond to NTP
control queries could be linked using the information revealed by control queries.

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

Note that the unlinkability objective does not prevent a client device from being tracked by its
time servers.

9.2.  Conﬁdentiality

NTP Client Data Minimization [NTP-DATA-MIN]

NTS does not protect the conﬁdentiality of information in NTP's header ﬁelds. When clients
implement
any information that the client could conceivably wish to keep secret: one ﬁeld is random, and
all others are ﬁxed. Information in server packet headers is likewise public: the origin timestamp
is copied from the client's (random) transmit timestamp, and all other ﬁelds are set the same
regardless of the identity of the client making the request.

, client packet headers do not contain

Future extension ﬁelds could hypothetically contain sensitive information, in which case NTS
provides a mechanism for encrypting them.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[IANA-AEAD]

[RFC0020]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4291]

[RFC5116]

[RFC5280]

[RFC5297]

[RFC5705]

,

IANA "Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) Parameters"
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/aead-parameters/>

.

,

,
Cerf, V. "ASCII format for network interchange" STD 80 RFC 20 DOI 10.17487/
RFC0020

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc20>

, October 1969,

,
.

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Hinden, R. and S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI
10.17487/RFC4291

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>

,
, February 2006,

,

,

McGrew, D. "An Interface and Algorithms for Authenticated Encryption" RFC
,
5116 DOI 10.17487/RFC5116
rfc5116>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2008,

.

,

Cooper, D., Santesson, S., Farrell, S., Boeyen, S., Housley, R., and W. Polk
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation
List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

,

,

,

Harkins, D. "Synthetic Initialization Vector (SIV) Authenticated Encryption
Using the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)" RFC 5297 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5297

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5297>

, October 2008,

,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. "Keying Material Exporters for Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
,
5705 DOI 10.17487/RFC5705
rfc5705>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2010,

.

,

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

[RFC5869]

[RFC5890]

[RFC5905]

[RFC6125]

[RFC6335]

[RFC6874]

[RFC7301]

[RFC7525]

[RFC7822]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

Krawczyk, H. and P. Eronen "HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation
Function (HKDF)" RFC 5869 DOI 10.17487/RFC5869
editor.org/info/rfc5869>

, May 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

,
,

,

.

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Deﬁnitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

.

,

,

,

Mills, D., Martin, J., Ed., Burbank, J., and W. Kasch "Network Time Protocol
Version 4: Protocol and Algorithms Speciﬁcation" RFC 5905 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5905

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5905>

, June 2010,

,
,

.

,

,

Saint-Andre, P. and J. Hodges "Representation and Veriﬁcation of Domain-Based
Application Service Identity within Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using
X.509 (PKIX) Certiﬁcates in the Context of Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
,
6125 DOI 10.17487/RFC6125
rfc6125>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

.

Cotton, M., Eggert, L., Touch, J., Westerlund, M., and S. Cheshire "Internet
Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Procedures for the Management of the
Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry" BCP 165 RFC 6335
DOI 10.17487/RFC6335

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6335>

, August 2011,

.

,

,

,

,

Carpenter, B., Cheshire, S., and R. Hinden "Representing IPv6 Zone Identiﬁers in
Address Literals and Uniform Resource Identiﬁers" RFC 6874 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6874

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6874>

, February 2013,

,

,

.

,

Friedl, S., Popov, A., Langley, A., and E. Stephan "Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension" RFC 7301 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7301

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7301>

, July 2014,

,

,

,
Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Mizrahi, T. and D. Mayer "Network Time Protocol Version 4 (NTPv4) Extension
Fields" RFC 7822 DOI 10.17487/RFC7822
editor.org/info/rfc7822>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2016,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

10.2.  Informative References

[Mizrahi]

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

,

Mizrahi, T. "A game theoretic analysis of delay attacks against time
synchronization protocols" 2012 IEEE International Symposium on Precision
Clock Synchronization for Measurement, Control and Communication
Proceedings, pp. 1-6 DOI 10.1109/ISPCS.2012.6336612
doi.org/10.1109/ISPCS.2012.6336612>

, September 2012,

,

,

.

<https://

[NTP-DATA-MIN]

Franke, D. F. and A. Malhotra "NTP Client Data Minimization" Work in

,

,

Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ntp-data-minimization-04
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-ntp-data-minimization-04>

,

.

, 25 March 2019,

[RFC4086]

[RFC5077]

[RFC7384]

[RFC8573]

[Shpiner]

Eastlake 3rd, D., Schiller, J., and S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, June 2005,

<https://

,

,

.

,

,

Salowey, J., Zhou, H., Eronen, P., and H. Tschofenig "Transport Layer Security
(TLS) Session Resumption without Server-Side State" RFC 5077 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5077

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5077>

, January 2008,

.

,

,

,

,
Mizrahi, T. "Security Requirements of Time Protocols in Packet Switched
,
,
Networks" RFC 7384 DOI 10.17487/RFC7384
editor.org/info/rfc7384>

, October 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

.

Malhotra, A. and S. Goldberg "Message Authentication Code for the Network
Time Protocol" RFC 8573 DOI 10.17487/RFC8573
.
editor.org/info/rfc8573>

<https://www.rfc-

, June 2019,

,

,

,

Shpiner, A., Revah, Y., and T. Mizrahi "Multi-path Time Protocols" 2013 IEEE
International Symposium on Precision Clock Synchronization for Measurement,
Control and Communication (ISPCS) Proceedings, pp. 1-6 DOI 10.1109/
ISPCS.2013.6644754
ISPCS.2013.6644754>

<https://doi.org/10.1109/

, September 2013,

,

.

,

,

Acknowledgments

,

,

,
,

Richard Barnes Steven Bellovin Scott Fluhrer Patrik Fältström
,

The authors would like to thank
Sharon Goldberg Russ Housley Benjamin Kaduk Suresh Krishnan Mirja Kühlewind Martin
,
Langer Barry Leiba Miroslav Lichvar Aanchal Malhotra Danny Mayer Dave Mills Sandra
Murphy Hal Murray Karen O'Donoghue Eric K. Rescorla Kurt Roeckx Stephen Roettger Dan
,
Romascanu Kyle Rose Rich Salz Brian Sniﬀen Susan Sons Douglas Stebila Harlan Stenn
,
,
Joachim Strömbergsson Martin Thomson Éric Vyncke Richard Welty Christer Weinigel
, and
Magnus Westerlund

,
 for contributions to this document and comments on the design of NTS.

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8915

Network Time Security for NTP

September 2020

Authors' Addresses

Daniel Fox Franke
Akamai Technologies
145 Broadway
Cambridge MA 02142
,
United States of America
Email:

 dafranke@akamai.com

Dieter Sibold
Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt
Bundesallee 100
D-38116 Braunschweig
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-(0)531-592-8462
 dieter.sibold@ptb.de

Kristof Teichel
Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt
Bundesallee 100
D-38116 Braunschweig
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-(0)531-592-4471
 kristof.teichel@ptb.de

Marcus Dansarie
Sweden
Email:
URI:

 marcus@dansarie.se

 https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9246-0263

Ragnar Sundblad
Netnod
Sweden
Email:

 ragge@netnod.se

Franke, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

