Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8861
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
J. Lennox
8x8 / Jitsi

M. Westerlund
Ericsson

Q. Wu
Huawei

C. Perkins
University of Glasgow

RFC 8861
Sending Multiple RTP Streams in a Single RTP
Session: Grouping RTP Control Protocol (RTCP)
Reception Statistics and Other Feedback

Abstract

RTP allows multiple RTP streams to be sent in a single session but requires each Synchronization
Source (SSRC) to send RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) reception quality reports for every other SSRC
visible in the session. This causes the number of RTCP reception reports to grow with the number
of SSRCs, rather than the number of endpoints. In many cases, most of these RTCP reception
reports are unnecessary, since all SSRCs of an endpoint are normally co-located and see the same
reception quality. This memo deﬁnes a Reporting Group extension to RTCP to reduce the
reporting overhead in such scenarios.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8861

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  RTCP Reporting Groups

3.1.  Semantics and Behavior of RTCP Reporting Groups

3.2.  Identifying Members of an RTCP Reporting Group

3.2.1.  Deﬁnition and Use of the RTCP RGRP SDES Item

3.2.2.  Deﬁnition and Use of the RTCP RGRS Packet

3.3.  Interactions with the RTP/AVPF Feedback Proﬁle

3.4.  Interactions with RTCP Extended Report (XR) Packets

3.5.  Middlebox Considerations

3.6.  SDP Signaling for Reporting Groups

4.  Properties of RTCP Reporting Groups

4.1.  Bandwidth Beneﬁts of RTCP Reporting Groups

4.2.  Compatibility of RTCP Reporting Groups

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

1.  Introduction

[RFC3550]

 is a protocol for group communication,

The Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP)
supporting multiparty multimedia sessions. A single RTP session can support multiple
participants sending data at once and can also support participants sending multiple
simultaneous RTP streams. Examples of the latter might include a participant with multiple
cameras who chooses to send multiple views of a scene, or a participant that sends audio and
video ﬂows multiplexed in a single RTP session. Rules for handling RTP sessions containing
multiple RTP streams are described in

, with some clariﬁcations in

.
[RFC8108]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3550]

, forward error

RTP retransmission [RFC4588]

media scalability features [RFC6190]

An RTP endpoint will have one or more Synchronization Sources (SSRCs). It will have at least one
RTP stream, and thus at least one SSRC, for each media source it sends, and it might use multiple
SSRCs per media source when using
, or similar mechanisms. An endpoint that is not
correction,
sending any RTP streams will have at least one SSRC to use for reporting and any feedback
messages. Each SSRC has to send RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Sender Reports (SRs)
corresponding to the RTP packets it sends and Receiver Reports (RRs) for traﬃc it receives. (SRs
and RRs are described in
every other SSRC. This rule is simple, but it can be quite ineﬃcient for endpoints that send large
numbers of RTP streams in a single RTP session. Consider a session comprising ten participants,
each sending three media sources, each media source associated with its own RTP stream. There
will be 30 SSRCs in such an RTP session, and each of those 30 SSRCs will send an RTCP SR/RR
packet (containing several report blocks) per reporting interval as each SSRC reports on all the
others. However, the three SSRCs comprising each participant are commonly co-located such that
they see identical reception quality. If there was a way to indicate that several SSRCs are co-
located and see the same reception quality, then two-thirds of those RTCP reports could be
suppressed. This would allow the remaining RTCP reports to be sent more often, while keeping
within the same RTCP bandwidth fraction.

.) That is, every SSRC will send RTCP packets to report on

This memo deﬁnes such an RTCP extension: RTCP Reporting Groups. This extension is used to
indicate the SSRCs that originate from the same endpoint and therefore have identical reception
quality, hence allowing the endpoints to suppress unnecessary RTCP reception quality reports.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

3.  RTCP Reporting Groups

An RTCP Reporting Group is a set of SSRCs that are co‑located at a single endpoint (which could
be an end host or a middlebox) in an RTP session. Since they are co-located, every SSRC in the
RTCP Reporting Group will have an identical view of the network conditions and will see the
same lost packets, jitter, etc. This allows a single representative to send RTCP reception quality
reports on behalf of the rest of the Reporting Group, reducing the number of RTCP packets that
need to be sent without loss of information.

3.1.  Semantics and Behavior of RTCP Reporting Groups

A group of co-located SSRCs that see identical network conditions can form an RTCP Reporting
Group. If Reporting Groups are in use, an RTP endpoint with multiple SSRCs
into a Reporting Group if their view of the network is identical, i.e., if they report on traﬃc
received at the same interface of an RTP endpoint. SSRCs with diﬀerent views of the network
MUST NOT

 be put into the same Reporting Group.

MAY

 put those SSRCs

An endpoint that has combined its SSRCs into an RTCP Reporting Group will choose one (or a
subset) of those SSRCs to act as "reporting source(s)" for that RTCP Reporting Group. A reporting
source will send RTCP SR/RR reception quality reports on behalf of the other members of the
RTCP Reporting Group. A reporting source
MUST
other members of the Reporting Group and only report on remote SSRCs. The other members
(non-reporting sources) of the RTCP Reporting Group will suppress their RTCP reception quality
reports and will instead send an RTCP Reporting Group Reporting Sources (RGRS) packet (see
Section 3.2.2) to indicate that they are part of an RTCP Reporting Group and give the SSRCs of the
reporting sources.

 suppress the RTCP SR/RR reports that relate to

If there are large numbers of remote SSRCs in the RTP session, then the reception quality reports
generated by the reporting source might grow too large to ﬁt into a single compound RTCP
packet, forcing the reporting source to use a round-robin policy to determine what remote SSRCs
it includes in each compound RTCP packet, and so reducing the frequency of reports on each
SSRC. To avoid this, in sessions with large numbers of remote SSRCs, an RTCP Reporting Group
 use more than one reporting source. If several SSRCs are acting as reporting sources for an
MAY
RTCP Reporting Group, then each reporting source
SSRCs it reports on.

 have non-overlapping sets of remote

MUST

MUST NOT

An endpoint
(i.e., an RTCP Reporting Group where the reporting source is the only member of the group),
unless it is anticipated that the group might have additional SSRCs added to it in the future.

 create an RTCP Reporting Group that comprises only a single local SSRC

If a reporting source leaves the RTP session (i.e., if it sends an RTCP BYE packet or it leaves the
session without sending a BYE according to the rules of
members of the RTCP Reporting Group

), the remaining
 (a) have another reporting source -- if one exists --

[RFC3550], Section 6.3.7

MUST

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

report on the remote SSRCs that the leaving SSRC had reported on, (b) choose a new reporting
source, or (c) disband the RTCP Reporting Group and begin sending reception quality reports per
[RFC3550]

.
[RFC8108]

 and

The RTCP timing rules assign diﬀerent bandwidth fractions to senders and receivers. This lets
senders transmit RTCP reception quality reports more often than receivers. If a reporting source
in an RTCP Reporting Group is a receiver but one or more non-reporting SSRCs in the RTCP
Reporting Group are senders, then the endpoint
the purpose of RTCP bandwidth allocation, increasing its RTCP bandwidth allocation, provided it
also treats one of the senders as if it were a receiver and makes the corresponding reduction in
RTCP bandwidth for that SSRC. However, the application needs to consider the impact on the
frequency of transmitting of the synchronization information included in RTCP SRs.

 treat the reporting source as a sender for

MAY

3.2.  Identifying Members of an RTCP Reporting Group

When RTCP Reporting Groups are in use, the other SSRCs in the RTP session need to be able to
identify which SSRCs are members of an RTCP Reporting Group. Two RTCP extensions are
deﬁned to support this: the RTCP Reporting Group (RGRP) Source Description (SDES) item is used
by the reporting source(s) to identify an RTCP Reporting Group, and the RTCP RGRS packet is
used by other members of an RTCP Reporting Group to identify the reporting source(s).

3.2.1.  Deﬁnition and Use of the RTCP RGRP SDES Item

This document deﬁnes a new RTCP RGRP SDES item to identify an RTCP Reporting Group. The
motivation for giving a Reporting Group an identiﬁer is to ensure that (1) the RTCP Reporting
Group and its member SSRCs can be correctly associated when there are multiple reporting
sources and (2) a reporting SSRC can be associated with the correct Reporting Group if an SSRC
collision occurs.

This document deﬁnes the RTCP RGRP SDES item. The RTCP RGRP SDES item
reporting sources in a Reporting Group and
Reporting Group or by SSRCs that are not members of any RTCP Reporting Group. Speciﬁcally,
every reporting source in an RTCP Reporting Group
containing an RGRP item in every compound RTCP packet in which it sends an RR or SR packet
(i.e., in every RTCP packet it sends, unless

 be sent by other members of the

Reduced-Size RTCP [RFC5506]

 include an RTCP SDES packet

 is in use).

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

 be sent by the

, except that the SDES item type ﬁeld

Syntactically, the format of the RTCP RGRP SDES item is identical to that of the
item [RFC7022]
CNAME=1. The value of the RTCP RGRP SDES item
global uniqueness and the same privacy considerations as the RTCP SDES CNAME. The value of
the RTCP RGRP SDES item
some or all of the reporting sources change their SSRC due to collisions or if the set of reporting
sources changes.

 be stable throughout the lifetime of the Reporting Group, even if

 be chosen with the same concerns about

 have value RGRP=11 instead of

RTCP SDES CNAME

MUST

MUST

MUST

An RTP mixer or translator that forwards RTCP SR or RR packets from members of a Reporting
Group
strips SDES items other than the CNAME item.

 forward the corresponding RTCP RGRP SDES items as well, even if it otherwise

MUST

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

3.2.2.  Deﬁnition and Use of the RTCP RGRS Packet

A new RTCP packet type is deﬁned to allow the members of an RTCP Reporting Group to identify
the reporting sources for that group. This allows participants in an RTP session to distinguish an
SSRC that is sending empty RTCP reception reports because it is a member of an RTCP Reporting
Group from an SSRC that is sending empty RTCP reception reports because it is not receiving any
traﬃc. It also explicitly identiﬁes the reporting sources, allowing other members of the RTP
session to (1) know which SSRCs are acting as the reporting sources for an RTCP Reporting Group
and (2) detect if RTCP packets from any of the reporting sources are being lost.

The format of the RTCP RGRS packet is deﬁned below. It comprises the ﬁxed RTCP header that
indicates the packet type and length, the SSRC of the packet sender, and a list of reporting
sources for the RTCP Reporting Group of which the packet sender is a member.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|V=2|P|    SC   | PT=RGRS(212)  |             length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     SSRC of packet sender                     |
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
:          List of SSRC(s) for the Reporting Source(s)          :
:                              ...                              :
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The ﬁelds in the RTCP RGRS packet have the following deﬁnitions:

version (V):

2-bit unsigned integer. This ﬁeld identiﬁes the RTP version. The current RTP

version is 2.

padding (P):

1 bit. If set, the padding bit indicates that the RTCP packet contains additional

padding octets at the end that are not part of the control information but are included in the
length ﬁeld. See

[RFC3550]

.

Source Count (SC):

5-bit unsigned integer. Indicates the number of reporting source SSRCs that

 be sent by reporting
are included in this RTCP packet. As the RTCP RGRS packet
sources, all the SSRCs in the list of reporting sources will be diﬀerent from the SSRC of the
 contain at least one reporting source SSRC.
packet sender. Every RTCP RGRS packet

MUST NOT

MUST

Payload type (PT):

8-bit unsigned integer. The RTCP packet type number that identiﬁes the

packet as being an RTCP RGRS packet. The RGRS RTCP packet has the value 212.

Length:

16-bit unsigned integer. The length of this packet in 32-bit words minus one, including
the header and any padding. This is in line with the deﬁnition of the length ﬁeld used in RTCP
SRs and RRs
SSRC, the length will always be 2 or greater.

. Since all RTCP RGRS packets include at least one reporting source

[RFC3550]

SSRC of packet sender:

32 bits. The SSRC of the sender of this packet.

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

List of SSRCs for the Reporting Source(s): A variable number (as indicated by the SC header

ﬁeld) of 32‑bit SSRC values of the reporting sources for the RTCP Reporting Group of which the
packet sender is a member.

MUST

Every source that belongs to an RTCP Reporting Group but is not a reporting source
an RTCP RGRS packet in every compound RTCP packet in which it sends an RR or SR packet (i.e.,
in every RTCP packet it sends, unless
Reduced-Size RTCP [RFC5506]
 contain the SSRC identiﬁer of at least one reporting source. If there are more
packet
reporting sources in an RTCP Reporting Group than can ﬁt into an RTCP RGRS packet, the
members of that Reporting Group
fashion in consecutive RTCP RGRS packets, such that all the SSRCs of the reporting sources are
included over the course of several RTCP reporting intervals.

 send the SSRCs of the reporting sources in a round-robin

 is in use). Each RTCP RGRS

MUST

MUST

 include

MUST

An RTP mixer or translator that forwards RTCP SR or RR packets from members of a Reporting
 also forward the corresponding RGRS RTCP packets. If the RTP mixer or translator
Group
 make the corresponding changes to the
rewrites SSRC values of the packets it forwards, it
MUST
RTCP RGRS packets.

3.3.  Interactions with the RTP/AVPF Feedback Proﬁle

The use of the RTP/AVPF Feedback Proﬁle
requests and codec control messages. If the use of the RTP/AVPF proﬁle has been negotiated in an
RTP session, members of an RTCP Reporting Group can send rapid RTCP feedback and codec
control messages per
the following considerations.

 allows SSRCs to send rapid RTCP feedback

Section 5.4 of [RFC8108]

 as updated by

[RFC4585]

[RFC4585]

[RFC5104]

, and by

, per

The members of an RTCP Reporting Group will all see identical network conditions. Accordingly,
one might therefore think that it doesn't matter which SSRC in the Reporting Group sends the
RTP/AVPF feedback or codec control messages. There might be, however, cases where the sender
of the feedback/codec control message has semantic importance, or when only a subset of the
members of an RTCP Reporting Group might want to send RTP/AVPF feedback or a codec control
message in response to a particular event. For example, an RTP video sender might choose to
treat packet loss feedback received from SSRCs known to be audio receivers with less urgency
than feedback that it receives from video receivers when deciding what packets to retransmit,
and a multimedia receiver using Reporting Groups might want to choose the outgoing SSRC for
feedback packets to reﬂect this.

Each member of an RTCP Reporting Group
 therefore send RTP/AVPF feedback/codec
SHOULD
control messages independently of the other members of the Reporting Group, to respect the
semantic meaning of the message sender. The suppression rules of
 will ensure that
only a single copy of each feedback packet is (typically) generated, even if several members of a
Reporting Group send the same feedback. When an endpoint knows that several members of its
RTCP Reporting Group will be sending identical feedback and that the sender of the feedback is
not semantically important, that endpoint
source and deterministically suppress feedback packets generated by the other sources in the
Reporting Group.

 choose to send all its feedback from the reporting

[RFC4585]

MAY

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

It is important to note that the RTP/AVPF timing rules operate on a per-SSRC basis. Using a single
reporting source to send all feedback for a Reporting Group will hence limit the amount of
feedback that can be sent to that which can be sent by one SSRC. If this limit is a problem, then
the Reporting Group can allow each of its members to send its own feedback, using its own SSRC.

If the RTP/AVPF feedback messages or codec control requests are sent as compound RTCP
packets, then those compound RTCP packets
RTCP RGRP SDES item, depending on whether they are sent by the reporting source or a
non‑reporting source in the RTCP Reporting Group, respectively. The contents of noncompound
RTCP feedback or codec control messages are not aﬀected by the use of RTCP Reporting Groups.

 include either an RTCP RGRS packet or an

MUST

3.4.  Interactions with RTCP Extended Report (XR) Packets

[RFC3611]
 that the reporting source be used to send the RTCP XR packets. If multiple

When using RTCP Extended Report (XR) packets
RECOMMENDED
reporting sources are in use, the reporting source that sends the SR/RR packets that relate to a
particular remote SSRC
one commonly combine the RTCP XR metrics with the regular report block to more fully
understand the situation. Receiving these blocks in diﬀerent compound packets reduces their
value, as the measuring intervals are not synchronized in those cases.

 send the RTCP XR reports about that SSRC. This is motivated as

 with RTCP Reporting Groups, it is

SHOULD

MUST

Some RTCP XR report blocks are speciﬁc to particular types of media and might be relevant to
only some members of a Reporting Group. For example, it would make no sense for an SSRC that
is receiving video to send a Voice over IP (VoIP) metric RTCP XR report block. Such media-speciﬁc
RTCP XR report blocks
included in the common report sent by the reporting source. This might mean that some SSRCs
send RTCP XR packets in compound RTCP packets that contain an empty RTCP SR/RR packet and
that the time period covered by the RTCP XR packet is diﬀerent from that covered by the RTCP
SR/RR packet. If it is important that the RTCP XR packet and RTCP SR/RR packet cover the same
time period, then that source
RTCP packets be sent instead.

 be removed from the RTCP Reporting Group, and standard

 be sent by the SSRC to which they are relevant and

MUST NOT

SHOULD

 be

3.5.  Middlebox Considerations

Many diﬀerent types of middleboxes are used with RTP. RTCP Reporting Groups are potentially
relevant to those types of RTP middleboxes that have their own SSRCs and generate RTCP reports
for the traﬃc they receive. RTP middleboxes that do not have their own SSRC and that do not
send RTCP reports on the traﬃc they receive cannot use the RTCP Reporting Group extension,
since they generate no RTCP reports to that group.

An RTP middlebox that has several SSRCs of its own can use the RTCP Reporting Group extension
to group the RTCP reports it generates. This can occur, for example, if a middlebox is acting as an
RTP mixer for both audio and video ﬂows that are multiplexed onto a single RTP session, where
the middlebox has one SSRC for the audio mixer and one for the video mixer part, and when the
middlebox wants to avoid cross-reporting between audio and video.

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

A middlebox cannot use the RTCP Reporting Group extension to group RTCP packets from the
SSRCs that it is forwarding. It can, however, group the RTCP packets from the SSRCs it is
forwarding into compound RTCP packets, following the rules in
Section 6.1 of [RFC3550]
Section 5.3 of [RFC8108]
MAY
packets its reporting source generates.

 include RTCP packets from the SSRCs that it is forwarding as part of the compound RTCP

. If the middlebox is using RTCP Reporting Groups for its own SSRCs, it

 and

A middlebox that forwards RTCP SR or RR packets sent by members of a Reporting Group
forward the corresponding RTCP RGRP SDES items, as described in Section 3.2.1. A middlebox
that forwards RTCP SR or RR packets sent by members of a Reporting Group
the corresponding RTCP RGRS packets, as described in Section 3.2.2. Failure to forward these
packets can cause compatibility problems, as described in Section 4.2.

MUST

 also forward

MUST

If a middlebox rewrites SSRC values in the RTP and RTCP packets that it is forwarding, then it
MUST
RGRS packets, to allow them to be associated with the rewritten SSRCs.

 make the corresponding changes in RTCP SDES packets containing RGRP items and in RTCP

3.6.  SDP Signaling for Reporting Groups

Session Description Protocol (SDP) [RFC4566]

This document deﬁnes the "a=rtcp-rgrp"
to indicate if the session participant is capable of supporting RTCP Reporting Groups for
applications that use SDP for conﬁguration of RTP sessions. It is a property attribute and hence
takes no value. The
the RTP session level. A participant that proposes the use of RTCP Reporting Groups
support the reception of RTCP Reporting Groups. The formal deﬁnition of this attribute is as
follows:

multiplexing category [RFC8859]

 is IDENTICAL, as the functionality applies at

 attribute

SHALL

 itself

rtcp-rgrp
None

Name:
Value:
Usage Level:
Charset Dependent:
Example:

a=rtcp-rgrp

no

session, media

When using SDP Oﬀer/Answer

[RFC3264]

, the following procedures are to be used:

Generating the initial SDP oﬀer:

If the oﬀerer supports the RTCP Reporting Group extensions and is willing to accept RTCP
packets containing those extensions, then it
 include an "a=rtcp-rgrp" attribute in the
MUST
initial oﬀer. If the oﬀerer does not support RTCP Reporting Group extensions or is not willing
to accept RTCP packets containing those extensions, then it
rgrp" attribute in the oﬀer.

 include the "a=rtcp-

MUST NOT

Generating the SDP answer:

If the SDP oﬀer contains an "a=rtcp‑rgrp" attribute, and if the answerer supports RTCP
Reporting Groups and is willing to receive RTCP packets using the RTCP Reporting Group
 include an "a=rtcp-rgrp" attribute in the answer and
extensions, then the answerer
send RTCP packets containing the RTCP Reporting Group extensions. If the oﬀer does not

MAY

MAY

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

contain an "a=rtcp-rgrp" attribute, or if the oﬀer does contain such an attribute but the
answerer does not wish to accept RTCP packets using the RTCP Reporting Group extensions,
then the answer

 include an "a=rtcp-rgrp" attribute.

MUST NOT

Oﬀerer processing of the SDP answer:

If the SDP answer contains an "a=rtcp-rgrp" attribute and the corresponding oﬀer also
contained an "a=rtcp-rgrp" attribute, then the oﬀerer
RTCP packets that contain the Reporting Group extensions and
contain the Reporting Group extensions. If the SDP answer contains an "a=rtcp-rgrp" attribute
but the corresponding oﬀer did not contain the "a=rtcp‑rgrp" attribute, then the oﬀerer
MUST
reject the call. If the SDP answer does not contain an "a=rtcp-rgrp" attribute, then the oﬀerer
MUST NOT
process packets containing the RTCP Reporting Group extensions.

 send packets containing the RTCP Reporting Group extensions and does not need to

 be prepared to accept and process

 send RTCP packets that

MUST

MAY

Real-Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP) [RFC7826]

In declarative usage of SDP, such as the
Session Announcement Protocol (SAP) [RFC2974]
session participant
implementation that doesn't explicitly support RTCP Reporting Groups
as long as it has been veriﬁed that the implementation doesn't suﬀer from the problems
discussed in Section 4.2.

 use RTCP Reporting Groups in its RTCP transmissions. An

 and the
, the presence of the attribute indicates that the

 join an RTP session

MAY

MAY

4.  Properties of RTCP Reporting Groups

This section provides additional information on what the resulting properties are (i.e., resulting
eﬀects or impacts) as related to the design speciﬁed in Section 3. The content of this section is
non-normative.

4.1.  Bandwidth Beneﬁts of RTCP Reporting Groups

To understand the beneﬁts of RTCP Reporting Groups, consider a scenario in which the two
endpoints in a session each have a hundred sources, of which eight each are sending within any
given reporting interval.

For ease of analysis, we can make the simplifying approximation that the duration of the RTCP
reporting interval is equal to the total size of the RTCP packets sent during an RTCP interval,
divided by the RTCP bandwidth. (This will be approximately true in scenarios where the
bandwidth is not so high that the minimum RTCP interval is reached.) To further simplify, we can
assume that RTCP senders are following the recommendations regarding compound RTCP
packets in
RTCP data. Thus, only the actual RTCP data itself need be considered.

; thus, the per-packet transport-layer overhead will be small relative to the

[RFC8108]

In a report interval in this scenario, there will, as a baseline, be 200 SDES packets, 184 RR
packets, and 16 SR packets. This amounts to approximately 6.5 KB of RTCP packets per report
interval, assuming 16-byte CNAMEs and no other SDES information.

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

Using the original "everyone reports on every sender" feedback rules
receivers will send 16 report blocks, and each of the 16 senders will send 15. This amounts to
approximately 76 KB of report block traﬃc per interval; 92% of RTCP traﬃc consists of report
blocks.

[RFC3550]

, each of the 184

If Reporting Groups are used, however, there is only 0.4 KB of reports per interval, with no loss
of useful information. Additionally, there will be (assuming 16-byte RGRPs and a single reporting
source per Reporting Group) an additional 2.4 KB per cycle of RTCP RGRP SDES items and RGRS
packets. Put another way, the unmodiﬁed reporting interval per
times longer than if Reporting Groups are in use.

 is approximately 9

[RFC3550]

4.2.  Compatibility of RTCP Reporting Groups

The RTCP traﬃc generated by receivers using RTCP Reporting Groups might appear, to observers
unaware of these semantics, to be generated by receivers who are experiencing a network
disconnection, as the non-reporting sources appear not to be receiving a given sender at all.

This could be a potentially critical problem for such a sender using RTCP for congestion control,
as such a sender might think that it is sending so much traﬃc that it is causing complete
congestion collapse.

However, such an interpretation of the session statistics would require a fairly sophisticated
RTCP analysis. Any receiver of RTCP statistics that is just interested in information about itself
needs to be prepared for the possibility that any given reception report might not contain
information about a speciﬁc media source, because reception reports in large conferences can be
round-robined.

Thus, the extent to which such backward-compatibility issues would actually cause trouble in
practice is unclear.

5.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of
then the security considerations of
used, the security considerations of
XR report blocks used, also apply.

[RFC3550]

 and
[RFC4585]
[RFC3611]

[RFC8108]
 (and
, including security considerations regarding any

 apply. If the RTP/AVPF proﬁle is in use,
, if used) also apply. If RTCP XR is

[RFC5104]

The RTCP RGRP SDES item is vulnerable to malicious modiﬁcations unless integrity protection is
used. A modiﬁcation of this item's length ﬁeld causes the parsing of the RTCP packet in which it is
contained to fail. Depending on the implementation, parsing of the full compound RTCP packet
can also fail, causing the whole packet to be discarded. A modiﬁcation of the value of this SDES
item would make the receiver of the report think that the sender of the report was a member of a
diﬀerent RTCP Reporting Group. This will potentially create an inconsistency, when the RGRS
reports the source as being in the same Reporting Group as another source with another
Reporting Group identiﬁer. The impacts on a receiver implementation that such inconsistencies
could cause are diﬃcult to fully predict. One case is that when congestion control or other

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

adaptation mechanisms are used, an inconsistent report can result in a media sender reducing
its bitrate. However, a direct modiﬁcation of the RR or a feedback message itself would be a more
eﬃcient attack and would be equally costly to perform.

Appendix A.2 of

), resulting in the whole compound RTCP packet being discarded. Modiﬁcation of the

The new RGRS RTCP packet type is very simple. The common RTCP packet type header shares the
same security risks as those that aﬀect previous RTCP packet types. Errors or modiﬁcation of the
length ﬁeld can cause the full compound packet to fail header validation (see
[RFC3550]
SC ﬁeld or the P ﬁeld would cause an inconsistency when processing the RTCP packet, likely
resulting in the packet being classiﬁed as invalid. A modiﬁcation of the PT ﬁeld would cause the
packet to be interpreted according to some other packet type's rules. In such a case, the result
might be more or less predictable but would be speciﬁc to the packet type. Modiﬁcation of the
"SSRC of packet sender" ﬁeld would attribute this packet to another sender, resulting in a
receiver believing that the Reporting Group also applies for this SSRC, if it exists. If it doesn't
exist, unless corresponding modiﬁcations are also done on an SR/RR packet and an SDES packet,
 be discarded. If consistent changes are done, such a scenario could be
the RTCP packet
part of a resource exhaustion attack on a receiver implementation. Modiﬁcation of the "List of
SSRCs for the Reporting Source(s)" ﬁeld would change the SSRC the receiver expects to report on
behalf of this SSRC. If that SSRC exists, this situation could potentially change the Reporting
Group used for this SSRC. A change to another Reporting Group belonging to another endpoint is
likely detectable, as there would be a mismatch between the SSRC of the packet sender's
endpoint information, transport addresses, SDES CNAME, etc., and the corresponding
information from the Reporting Group indicated.

SHOULD

In general, the Reporting Group is providing limited-impact attacks on the endpoints. The most
signiﬁcant result from a deliberate attack would be to cause the information to be discarded or
be inconsistent, including the discarding of all RTCP packets that are modiﬁed. This causes a lack
of information at any receiver entity, possibly disregarding the endpoint's participation in the
session.

To protect against such attacks from external non-trusted entities, integrity and source
authentication
Transport Protocol (SRTP) [RFC3711]
discussed in

 be applied. This can be done, for example, by using

.
"Options for Securing RTP Sessions" [RFC7201]

 with appropriate key management; other options exist, as

the Secure Real-time

SHOULD

[RFC7022]

. The rest of the information revealed, i.e., the SSRCs, the size of the

The Reporting Group Identiﬁer has properties that could potentially impact privacy. If this
identiﬁer were to be generated by an implementation in a way that makes it long-term stable or
predictable, it could be used for tracking a particular endpoint. Therefore, it is
that it be generated as a short-term persistent RGRP, following the rules for short-term persistent
CNAMEs in
Reporting Group, and the number of reporting sources in a Reporting Group, is of a less sensitive
nature, considering that the SSRCs and the communication would be revealed without this
extension anyway. By encrypting the Reporting Group extensions, the conﬁdentiality of the SSRC
values would be preserved, but the values can still be revealed if
size of the Reporting Groups and the number of reporting sources are likely determinable from
analysis of the packet pattern and sizes. However, this information appears to have limited
value.

SRTP [RFC3711]

RECOMMENDED

 is used. The

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered a new RTCP RGRP SDES item in the "RTP SDES Item Types" registry, as
follows:

Value Abbrev Name

Reference

11

RGRP

Reporting Group Identiﬁer

RFC 8861

Table 1: New RTCP RGRP SDES Item: Reporting Group Identiﬁer

The deﬁnition of the RTCP RGRP SDES item is given in Section 3.2.1 of this memo.

IANA has registered a new RTCP packet type in the "RTCP Control Packet Types (PT)" registry, as
follows:

Value Abbrev Name

Reference

212

RGRS

Reporting Group Reporting Sources

RFC 8861

Table 2: New RTCP Packet Type: Reporting Group Reporting Sources

The deﬁnition of the RTCP RGRS packet type is given in Section 3.2.2 of this memo.

IANA has also registered a new SDP attribute.

SDP Attribute ("att-ﬁeld"):

Contact Name:

IESG

Contact Email:

iesg@ietf.org

Attribute name:

rtcp-rgrp

Long form:

RTCP Reporting Groups

Type of name:

att-ﬁeld

Type of attribute:

Media or session level

Subject to charset:

No

Purpose:

To negotiate or conﬁgure the use of the RTCP Reporting Group
extension

Reference:

RFC 8861

Value:

None

Mux Category:

IDENTICAL

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

The deﬁnition of the "a=rtcp-rgrp" SDES attribute is given in Section 3.6 of this memo.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3264]

[RFC3550]

[RFC4566]

[RFC7022]

[RFC8108]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8859]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

,

,

.

,

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
,
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

.

,

,

,

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Begen, A., Perkins, C., Wing, D., and E. Rescorla "Guidelines for Choosing RTP
Control Protocol (RTCP) Canonical Names (CNAMEs)" RFC 7022 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7022

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7022>

, September 2013,

,

,

.

,

Lennox, J., Westerlund, M., Wu, Q., and C. Perkins "Sending Multiple RTP
,
Streams in a Single RTP Session" RFC 8108 DOI 10.17487/RFC8108
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8108>

,

.

,

, March 2017,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Nandakumar, S. "A Framework for Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
,
Attributes When Multiplexing" RFC 8859 DOI 10.17487/RFC8859
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8859>

, January 2021,

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC2974]

[RFC3611]

Handley, M., Perkins, C., and E. Whelan "Session Announcement Protocol" RFC
,
2974 DOI 10.17487/RFC2974
,
rfc2974>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2000,

.

Friedman, T., Ed., Caceres, R., Ed., and A. Clark, Ed. "RTP Control Protocol
,
Extended Reports (RTCP XR)" RFC 3611 DOI 10.17487/RFC3611
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3611>

.

,

,

, November 2003,

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

[RFC3711]

[RFC4585]

[RFC4588]

[RFC5104]

[RFC5506]

[RFC6190]

[RFC7201]

[RFC7826]

Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K. Norrman "The Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, March

,
.

,

,

Ott, J., Wenger, S., Sato, N., Burmeister, C., and J. Rey "Extended RTP Proﬁle for
Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" RFC
4585 DOI 10.17487/RFC4585
,
rfc4585>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2006,

,

,

.

Rey, J., Leon, D., Miyazaki, A., Varsa, V., and R. Hakenberg "RTP Retransmission
Payload Format" RFC 4588 DOI 10.17487/RFC4588
<https://www.rfc-
editor.org/info/rfc4588>
.

, July 2006,

,

,

,

Wenger, S., Chandra, U., Westerlund, M., and B. Burman "Codec Control
Messages in the RTP Audio-Visual Proﬁle with Feedback (AVPF)" RFC 5104 DOI
10.17487/RFC5104

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5104>

, February 2008,

.

,

,

Johansson, I. and M. Westerlund "Support for Reduced-Size Real-Time
,
Transport Control Protocol (RTCP): Opportunities and Consequences" RFC 5506
DOI 10.17487/RFC5506

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5506>

, April 2009,

.

,

,

Wenger, S., Wang, Y.-K., Schierl, T., and A. Eleftheriadis "RTP Payload Format for
Scalable Video Coding" RFC 6190 DOI 10.17487/RFC6190
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6190>

, May 2011,

<https://

,
.

,

,

Westerlund, M. and C. Perkins "Options for Securing RTP Sessions" RFC 7201
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC7201

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7201>

, April 2014,

,

,

,

,
Schulzrinne, H., Rao, A., Lanphier, R., Westerlund, M., and M. Stiemerling, Ed.
,
"Real-Time Streaming Protocol Version 2.0" RFC 7826 DOI 10.17487/RFC7826
December 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7826>

,

,

.

Authors' Addresses

Jonathan Lennox
8x8, Inc. / Jitsi
Jersey City NJ 07302
,
United States of America
Email:

 jonathan.lennox@8x8.com

Magnus Westerlund
Ericsson
Torshamnsgatan 23
164 80 Kista
SE-
Sweden
Email:

 magnus.westerlund@ericsson.com

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8861

Grouping RTCP Reception Statistics

January 2021

Qin Wu
Huawei
101 Software Avenue, Yuhua District
Nanjing, Jiangsu 210012
China
Email:

 bill.wu@huawei.com

Colin Perkins
University of Glasgow
School of Computing Science
Glasgow
G12 8QQ
United Kingdom
Email:

 csp@csperkins.org

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

