Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8692
3279
Standards Track
December 2019
2070-1721
P. Kampanakis
Cisco Systems

Q. Dang
NIST

RFC 8692
Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure: Additional
Algorithm Identiﬁers for RSASSA-PSS and ECDSA
Using SHAKEs

Abstract

Digital signatures are used to sign messages, X.509 certiﬁcates, and Certiﬁcate Revocation Lists
(CRLs). This document updates the "Algorithms and Identiﬁers for the Internet X.509 Public Key
Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL) Proﬁle" (RFC 3279) and describes
the conventions for using the SHAKE function family in Internet X.509 certiﬁcates and revocation
lists as one-way hash functions with the RSA Probabilistic signature and Elliptic Curve Digital
Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) signature algorithms. The conventions for the associated subject
public keys are also described.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8692
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2019 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Identiﬁers

4.  Use in PKIX

4.1.  Signatures

4.1.1.  RSASSA-PSS Signatures

4.1.2.  ECDSA Signatures

4.2.  Public Keys

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 deﬁnes cryptographic algorithm identiﬁers for the "Internet X.509 Public Key

[RFC3279]
Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL) Proﬁle"
. This document
updates RFC 3279 and deﬁnes identiﬁers for several cryptographic algorithms that use variable-
length output SHAKE functions introduced in

 which can be used with RFC 5280.

[RFC5280]

[SHA3]

In the SHA-3 family, two extendable-output functions (SHAKEs) are deﬁned: SHAKE128 and
SHAKE256. Four other hash function instances, SHA3-224, SHA3-256, SHA3-384, and SHA3-512,
are also deﬁned but are out of scope for this document. A SHAKE is a variable-length hash
function deﬁned as SHAKE(M, d) where the output is a d-bits-long digest of message M. The
corresponding collision and second-preimage-resistance strengths for SHAKE128 are min(d/2,

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

128) and min(d, 128) bits, respectively (see Appendix A.1 of
collision and second-preimage-resistance strengths for SHAKE256 are min(d/2, 256) and min(d,
256) bits, respectively.

). And the corresponding

[SHA3]

A SHAKE can be used as the message digest function (to hash the message to be signed) in RSA
Probabilistic Signature Scheme (RSASSA-PSS)
mask generation function (MGF) in RSASSA-PSS.

 and ECDSA

[RFC8017]

 and as the hash in the

[X9.62]

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Identiﬁers

This section deﬁnes four new object identiﬁers (OIDs), for RSASSA-PSS and ECDSA with each of
SHAKE128 and SHAKE256. The same algorithm identiﬁers can be used for identifying a public
key in RSASSA-PSS.

The new identiﬁers for RSASSA-PSS signatures using SHAKEs are below.

  id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
            identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
            security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6)
            30 }

  id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
            identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
            security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6)
            31 }

The new algorithm identiﬁers of ECDSA signatures using SHAKEs are below.

  id-ecdsa-with-shake128 OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
            identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
            security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6)
            32 }

  id-ecdsa-with-shake256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
            identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
            security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6)
            33 }

The parameters for the four identiﬁers above
SEQUENCE of one component: the OID.

MUST

 be absent. That is, the identiﬁer

SHALL

 be a

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

Sections 4.1.1 and 4.1.2 specify the required output length for each use of SHAKE128 or
SHAKE256 in RSASSA-PSS and ECDSA. In summary, when hashing messages to be signed, output
lengths of SHAKE128 and SHAKE256 are 256 and 512 bits, respectively. When the SHAKEs are
used as MGFs in RSASSA-PSS, their output length is (8*ceil((n-1)/8) - 264) or (8*ceil((n-1)/8) - 520)
bits, respectively, where n is the RSA modulus size in bits.

4.  Use in PKIX

4.1.  Signatures

Signatures are used in a number of diﬀerent ASN.1 structures. As shown in the ASN.1
 below, in an X.509 certiﬁcate, a signature is encoded with an
representation from
algorithm identiﬁer in the signatureAlgorithm attribute and a signatureValue attribute that
contains the actual signature.

[RFC5280]

   Certificate  ::=  SEQUENCE  {
      tbsCertificate       TBSCertificate,
      signatureAlgorithm   AlgorithmIdentifier,
      signatureValue       BIT STRING  }

The identiﬁers deﬁned in Section 3 can be used as the AlgorithmIdentiﬁer in the
signatureAlgorithm ﬁeld in the sequence Certiﬁcate and the signature ﬁeld in the sequence
TBSCertiﬁcate in X.509
explained in Section 3.

. The parameters of these signature algorithms are absent, as

[RFC5280]

Conforming Certiﬁcation Authority (CA) implementations
by using the OIDs speciﬁed in Section 3 when encoding RSASSA-PSS or ECDSA with SHAKE
signatures in certiﬁcates and CRLs. Conforming client implementations that process certiﬁcates
and CRLs using RSASSA-PSS or ECDSA with SHAKE
Encoding rules for RSASSA-PSS and ECDSA signature values are speciﬁed in
[RFC5480]

 recognize the corresponding OIDs.
 and

 specify the algorithms explicitly

, respectively.

[RFC4055]

MUST

MUST

When using RSASSA-PSS or ECDSA with SHAKEs, the RSA modulus and ECDSA curve order
 be chosen in line with the SHAKE output length. Refer to Section 6 for more details.
SHOULD

4.1.1.  RSASSA-PSS Signatures

[RFC8017]

The RSASSA-PSS algorithm is deﬁned in
RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256 (speciﬁed in Section 3) is used, the encoding
ﬁeld. That is, the AlgorithmIdentiﬁer
SHAKE128 or id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256.
 deﬁnes RSASSA-PSS-params that is used to
[RFC4055]
deﬁne the algorithms and inputs to the algorithm. This speciﬁcation does not use parameters
because the hash, mask generation algorithm, trailer, and salt are embedded in the OID
deﬁnition.

 omit the parameters
 be a SEQUENCE of one component: id-RSASSA-PSS-

. When id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128 or id-
MUST

SHALL

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

The hash algorithm to hash a message being signed and the hash algorithm used as the MGF in
RSASSA-PSS
algorithm that hashes the message
SHAKE256).

 be the same: both SHAKE128 or both SHAKE256. The output length of the hash

 be 32 bytes (for SHAKE128) or 64 bytes (for

SHALL

MUST

MUST

 be used

Appendix B.2.1 of [RFC8017]

The MGF takes an octet string of variable length and a desired output length as input and outputs
an octet string of the desired length. In RSASSA-PSS with SHAKEs, the SHAKEs
natively as the MGF, instead of the MGF1 algorithm that uses the hash function in multiple
iterations, as speciﬁed in
SHAKE128 or SHAKE256 output of the mgfSeed for id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128 and id-RSASSA-PSS-
SHAKE256, respectively. The mgfSeed is the seed from which the mask is generated, an octet
, the output length of the
string
MGF is emLen - hLen - 1 bytes. emLen is the maximum message length ceil((n-1)/8), where n is
the RSA modulus in bits. hLen is 32 and 64 bytes for id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128 and id-RSASSA-
PSS-SHAKE256, respectively. Thus, when SHAKE is used as the MGF, the SHAKE output length
maskLen is (8*emLen - 264) or (8*emLen - 520) bits, respectively. For example, when RSA
modulus n is 2048 bits, the output length of SHAKE128 or SHAKE256 as the MGF will be 1784 or
1528 bits when id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128 or id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256 is used, respectively.

. In other words, the MGF is deﬁned as the

. As explained in Step 9 of

Section 9.1.1 of [RFC8017]

[RFC8017]

The RSASSA-PSS saltLength
RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256. Finally, the trailerField
hexadecimal value 0xBC

[RFC8017]

MUST

.

 be 32 bytes for id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128 or 64 bytes for id-

MUST

 be 1, which represents the trailer ﬁeld with

4.1.2.  ECDSA Signatures

The Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) is deﬁned in
with-shake128 or id-ecdsa-with-shake256 (speciﬁed in Section 3) algorithm identiﬁer appears, the
respective SHAKE function (SHAKE128 or SHAKE256) is used as the hash. The encoding
omit the parameters ﬁeld. That is, the AlgorithmIdentiﬁer
 be a SEQUENCE of one
component: the OID id-ecdsa-with-shake128 or id-ecdsa-with-shake256.

. When the id-ecdsa-

[X9.62]

SHALL

MUST

For simplicity and compliance with the ECDSA standard speciﬁcation
of the hash function must be explicitly determined. The output length, d, for SHAKE128 or
SHAKE256 used in ECDSA

 be 256 or 512 bits, respectively.

[X9.62]

MUST

, the output length

SHOULD

 generate such signatures with a deterministically generated, nonrandom k in

Conforming CA implementations that generate ECDSA with SHAKE signatures in certiﬁcates or
CRLs
accordance with all the requirements speciﬁed in
[RFC6979]
signatures in accordance with all other recommendations in
stated policy that requires conformance to those standards. Those standards have not speciﬁed
SHAKE128 and SHAKE256 as hash algorithm options. However, SHAKE128 and SHAKE256 with
output length being 32 and 64 octets, respectively, can be used instead of 256- and 512-bit output
hash algorithms such as SHA256 and SHA512.

 also generate such
[SEC1]

. They
[X9.62]

 if they have a

MAY
 or

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

4.2.  Public Keys

[RFC5280]

Certiﬁcates conforming to
certiﬁcate indicates the public key algorithm through an algorithm identiﬁer. This algorithm
identiﬁer is an OID with optionally associated parameters. The conventions and encoding for
RSASSA-PSS and ECDSA public key algorithm identiﬁers are as speciﬁed in Sections 2.3.1 and
2.3.5 of

 can convey a public key for any public key algorithm. The

[RFC3279] Section 3.1 of [RFC4055]

Section 2.1 of [RFC5480]

 and

,

.

Traditionally, the rsaEncryption object identiﬁer is used to identify RSA public keys. The
rsaEncryption object identiﬁer continues to identify the subject public key when the RSA private
key owner does not wish to limit the use of the public key exclusively to RSASSA-PSS with
SHAKEs. When the RSA private key owner wishes to limit the use of the public key exclusively to
RSASSA-PSS with SHAKEs, the AlgorithmIdentiﬁers for RSASSA-PSS deﬁned in Section 3
SHOULD
be used as the algorithm ﬁeld in the SubjectPublicKeyInfo sequence
client implementations that process RSASSA-PSS with SHAKE public keys when processing
 recognize the corresponding OIDs.
certiﬁcates and CRLs

. Conforming

[RFC5280]

MUST

Conforming CA implementations
 specify the X.509 public key algorithm explicitly by using
the OIDs speciﬁed in Section 3 when encoding ECDSA with SHAKE public keys in certiﬁcates and
CRLs. Conforming client implementations that process ECDSA with SHAKE public keys when
processing certiﬁcates and CRLs

 recognize the corresponding OIDs.

MUST

MUST

The identiﬁer parameters, as explained in Section 3,

MUST

 be absent.

5.  IANA Considerations

One object identiﬁer for the ASN.1 module in Appendix A has been assigned in the "SMI Security
for PKIX Module Identiﬁer" (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.0) registry:

Decimal

Description

References

94

id-mod-pkix1-shakes-2019

RFC 8692

Table 1

IANA has updated the "SMI Security for PKIX Algorithms" (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.6) registry
with four additional entries:

[SMI-PKIX]

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

Decimal

Description

References

30

31

32

33

Table 2

id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128

RFC 8692

id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256

RFC 8692

id-ecdsa-with-shake128

RFC 8692

id-ecdsa-with-shake256

RFC 8692

IANA has updated the "Hash Function Textual Names" registry
entries for SHAKE128 and SHAKE256:

[Hash-Texts]

 with two additional

Hash Function Name

OID

Reference

shake128

2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.11

RFC 8692

shake256

2.16.840.1.101.3.4.2.12

RFC 8692

Table 3

6.  Security Considerations

This document updates
to this speciﬁcation as well.

[RFC3279]

. The Security Considerations section of that document applies

NIST has deﬁned appropriate use of the hash functions in terms of the algorithm strengths and
expected time frames for secure use in Special Publications (SPs)
.
[SP800-107]
These documents can be used as guides to choose appropriate key sizes for various security
scenarios.

[SP800-78-4]

 and

SHAKE128 with output length of 256 bits oﬀers 128 bits of collision and preimage resistance.
Thus, SHAKE128 OIDs in this speciﬁcation are
3072-bit (128-bit security) RSA modulus or curves with group order of 256 bits (128-bit security).
SHAKE256 with a 512-bit output length oﬀers 256 bits of collision and preimage resistance. Thus,
the SHAKE256 OIDs in this speciﬁcation are
 with 4096-bit RSA modulus or higher
or curves with a group order of at least 512 bits, such as the NIST Curve P-521 (256-bit security).
Note that we recommended a 4096-bit RSA because we would need a 15360-bit modulus for 256
bits of security, which is impractical for today's technology.

 with 2048- (112-bit security) or

RECOMMENDED

RECOMMENDED

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

[RFC3279]

[RFC4055]

[RFC5280]

[RFC5480]

[RFC8017]

[RFC8174]

[SHA3]

Bassham, L., Polk, W., and R. Housley "Algorithms and Identiﬁers for the
Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation
List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC 3279 DOI 10.17487/RFC3279
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3279>

, April 2002,

<https://

,

,

.

,

,
Schaad, J., Kaliski, B., and R. Housley "Additional Algorithms and Identiﬁers for
RSA Cryptography for use in the Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure
Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC 4055 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4055>
RFC4055

, June 2005,

,

,

.

Cooper, D., Santesson, S., Farrell, S., Boeyen, S., Housley, R., and W. Polk
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation
List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Turner, S., Brown, D., Yiu, K., Housley, R., and T. Polk "Elliptic Curve
,
Cryptography Subject Public Key Information" RFC 5480 DOI 10.17487/RFC5480
March 2009,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5480>

.

,

,

,

Moriarty, K., Ed., Kaliski, B., Jonsson, J., and A. Rusch "PKCS #1: RSA
Cryptography Speciﬁcations Version 2.2" RFC 8017 DOI 10.17487/RFC8017
November 2016,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8017>

.

,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

National Institute of Standards and Technology "SHA-3 Standard: Permutation-
Based Hash and Extendable-Output Functions" DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.202 FIPS
PUB 202

<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.202>

, August 2015,

,
,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[Hash-Texts]

[RFC5912]

[RFC6979]

[SEC1]

,

IANA "Hash Function Textual Names" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/
hash-function-text-names/>

, ,

.

Hoﬀman, P. and J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for the Public Key Infrastructure
,
Using X.509 (PKIX)" RFC 5912 DOI 10.17487/RFC5912
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5912>

, June 2010,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Pornin, T. "Deterministic Usage of the Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) and
Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)" RFC 6979 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6979

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6979>

, August 2013,

,

,

.

Standards for Eﬃcient Cryptography Group "SEC 1: Elliptic Curve
Cryptography"

,
<http://www.secg.org/sec1-v2.pdf>

, May 2009,

.

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

[SMI-PKIX]

[SP800-107]

[SP800-78-4]

[X9.62]

,

IANA "SMI Security for PKIX Algorithms" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/
smi-numbers>

, ,

.

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Recommendation for
,
Applications Using Approved Hash Algorithms" DOI 10.6028/NIST.SP.800-107r1
, August 2012,
Revision 1 NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-107
dx.doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-107r1>

<http://

.

,

,

,

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Cryptographic
Algorithms and Key Sizes for Personal Identity Veriﬁcation" DOI 10.6028/
<http://
NIST.SP.800-78-4 NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-78-4
dx.doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-78-4>

,
, May 2015,

,

.

,

,

ANSI "Public Key Cryptography for the Financial Services Industry: the Elliptic
Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)" ANSI X9.62

, 2005.

,

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

This appendix includes the ASN.1 module for SHAKEs in X.509. This module does not come from
any previously existing RFC. This module references

[RFC5912]

.

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

PKIXAlgsForSHAKE-2019 { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6)
  internet(1) security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
  id-mod-pkix1-shakes-2019(94) }

DEFINITIONS EXPLICIT TAGS ::=

BEGIN

-- EXPORTS ALL;

IMPORTS

-- FROM RFC 5912

PUBLIC-KEY, SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM, DIGEST-ALGORITHM, SMIME-CAPS
FROM AlgorithmInformation-2009
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) security(5)
    mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
    id-mod-algorithmInformation-02(58) }

-- FROM RFC 5912

RSAPublicKey, rsaEncryption, pk-rsa, pk-ec,
CURVE, id-ecPublicKey, ECPoint, ECParameters, ECDSA-Sig-Value
FROM PKIXAlgs-2009 { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6)
     internet(1) security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
     id-mod-pkix1-algorithms2008-02(56) }
;

--
-- Message Digest Algorithms (mda-)
--
DigestAlgorithms DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
  -- This expands DigestAlgorithms from RFC 5912
  mda-shake128   |
  mda-shake256,
  ...
}

--
-- One-Way Hash Functions
--

-- SHAKE128
mda-shake128 DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
  IDENTIFIER id-shake128  -- with output length 32 bytes.
}
id-shake128 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2) country(16)
                                    us(840) organization(1) gov(101)
                                    csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4)
                                    hashAlgs(2) 11 }

-- SHAKE256
mda-shake256 DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
  IDENTIFIER id-shake256  -- with output length 64 bytes.
}
id-shake256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2) country(16)

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

                                    us(840) organization(1) gov(101)
                                    csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4)
                                    hashAlgs(2) 12 }

--
-- Public Key (pk-) Algorithms
--
PublicKeys PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
  -- This expands PublicKeys from RFC 5912
  pk-rsaSSA-PSS-SHAKE128 |
  pk-rsaSSA-PSS-SHAKE256,
  ...
}

-- The hashAlgorithm is mda-shake128
-- The maskGenAlgorithm is id-shake128
-- Mask Gen Algorithm is SHAKE128 with output length
-- (8*ceil((n-1)/8) - 264) bits, where n is the RSA
-- modulus in bits.
-- The saltLength is 32.  The trailerField is 1.
pk-rsaSSA-PSS-SHAKE128 PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
  IDENTIFIER id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128
  KEY RSAPublicKey
  PARAMS ARE absent
  -- Private key format not in this module --
  CERT-KEY-USAGE { nonRepudiation, digitalSignature,
                   keyCertSign, cRLSign }
}

-- The hashAlgorithm is mda-shake256
-- The maskGenAlgorithm is id-shake256
-- Mask Gen Algorithm is SHAKE256 with output length
-- (8*ceil((n-1)/8) - 520)-bits, where n is the RSA
-- modulus in bits.
-- The saltLength is 64.  The trailerField is 1.
pk-rsaSSA-PSS-SHAKE256 PUBLIC-KEY ::= {
  IDENTIFIER id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256
  KEY RSAPublicKey
  PARAMS ARE absent
  -- Private key format not in this module --
  CERT-KEY-USAGE { nonRepudiation, digitalSignature,
                   keyCertSign, cRLSign }
}

--
-- Signature Algorithms (sa-)
--
SignatureAlgs SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
  -- This expands SignatureAlgorithms from RFC 5912
  sa-rsassapssWithSHAKE128 |
  sa-rsassapssWithSHAKE256 |
  sa-ecdsaWithSHAKE128 |
  sa-ecdsaWithSHAKE256,
  ...
}

--
-- SMIME Capabilities (sa-)

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

--
SMimeCaps SMIME-CAPS ::= {
  -- The expands SMimeCaps from RFC 5912
  sa-rsassapssWithSHAKE128.&smimeCaps |
  sa-rsassapssWithSHAKE256.&smimeCaps |
  sa-ecdsaWithSHAKE128.&smimeCaps |
  sa-ecdsaWithSHAKE256.&smimeCaps,
  ...
}

-- RSASSA-PSS with SHAKE128
sa-rsassapssWithSHAKE128 SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
  IDENTIFIER id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128
  PARAMS ARE absent
      -- The hashAlgorithm is mda-shake128
      -- The maskGenAlgorithm is id-shake128
      -- Mask Gen Algorithm is SHAKE128 with output length
      -- (8*ceil((n-1)/8) - 264) bits, where n is the RSA
      -- modulus in bits.
      -- The saltLength is 32. The trailerField is 1
  HASHES { mda-shake128 }
  PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-rsa | pk-rsaSSA-PSS-SHAKE128 }
  SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128 }
}
id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
        identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
        security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6)
        30 }

-- RSASSA-PSS with SHAKE256
sa-rsassapssWithSHAKE256 SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
  IDENTIFIER id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256
  PARAMS ARE absent
      -- The hashAlgorithm is mda-shake256
      -- The maskGenAlgorithm is id-shake256
      -- Mask Gen Algorithm is SHAKE256 with output length
      -- (8*ceil((n-1)/8) - 520)-bits, where n is the
      -- RSA modulus in bits.
      -- The saltLength is 64. The trailerField is 1.
 HASHES { mda-shake256 }
 PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-rsa | pk-rsaSSA-PSS-SHAKE256 }
 SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256 }
}
id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
        identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
        security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6)
        31 }

-- ECDSA with SHAKE128
sa-ecdsaWithSHAKE128 SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
  IDENTIFIER id-ecdsa-with-shake128
  VALUE ECDSA-Sig-Value
  PARAMS ARE absent
  HASHES { mda-shake128 }
  PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-ec }
  SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-ecdsa-with-shake128 }
}
id-ecdsa-with-shake128 OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8692

SHAKE Identifiers in X.509

December 2019

        identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
        security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6)
        32 }

-- ECDSA with SHAKE256
sa-ecdsaWithSHAKE256 SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
  IDENTIFIER id-ecdsa-with-shake256
  VALUE ECDSA-Sig-Value
  PARAMS ARE absent
  HASHES { mda-shake256 }
  PUBLIC-KEYS { pk-ec }
  SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-ecdsa-with-shake256 }
}
id-ecdsa-with-shake256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
        identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
        security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6)
        33 }

END

Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Sean Turner, Jim Schaad, and Eric Rescorla for their valuable
contributions to this document.

The authors would like to thank Russ Housley for his guidance and very valuable contributions
with the ASN.1 module.

Authors' Addresses

Panos Kampanakis
Cisco Systems
Email:

 pkampana@cisco.com

Quynh Dang
NIST
100 Bureau Drive, Stop 8930
Gaithersburg MD 20899-8930
,
United States of America
Email:

 quynh.dang@nist.gov

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 14

