Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8911
Standards Track
November 2021
2070-1721
M. Bagnulo
UC3M

P. Eardley
BT

B. Claise
Huawei

A. Morton
AT&T Labs

A. Akhter
Consultant

RFC 8911
Registry for Performance Metrics

Abstract

This document deﬁnes the format for the IANA Registry of Performance Metrics. This document
also gives a set of guidelines for Registered Performance Metric requesters and reviewers.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8911
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Scope

4.  Motivations for the Performance Metrics Registry

4.1.  Interoperability

4.2.  Single Point of Reference for Performance Metrics

4.3.  Side Beneﬁts

5.  Criteria for Performance Metrics Registration

6.  Performance Metrics Registry: Prior Attempt

6.1.  Why This Attempt Should Succeed

7.  Deﬁnition of the Performance Metrics Registry

7.1.  Summary Category

7.1.1.  Identiﬁer

7.1.2.  Name

7.1.3.  URI

7.1.4.  Description

7.1.5.  Reference

7.1.6.  Change Controller

7.1.7.  Version (of Registry Format)

7.2.  Metric Deﬁnition Category

7.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

7.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

7.3.  Method of Measurement Category

7.3.1.  Reference Method

7.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

7.3.3.  Traﬃc Filter

7.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

7.3.5.  Runtime Parameters

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

7.3.6.  Role

7.4.  Output Category

7.4.1.  Type

7.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

7.4.3.  Metric Units

7.4.4.  Calibration

7.5.  Administrative Information

7.5.1.  Status

7.5.2.  Requester

7.5.3.  Revision

7.5.4.  Revision Date

7.6.  Comments and Remarks

8.  Processes for Managing the Performance Metrics Registry Group

8.1.  Adding New Performance Metrics to the Performance Metrics Registry

8.2.  Backward-Compatible Revision of Registered Performance Metrics

8.3.  Non-Backward-Compatible Deprecation of Registered Performance Metrics

8.4.  Obsolete Registry Entries

8.5.  Registry Format Version and Future Changes/Extensions

9.  Security Considerations

10. IANA Considerations

10.1.  Registry Group

10.2.  Performance Metrics Name Elements

10.3.  New Performance Metrics Registry

11. Blank Registry Template

11.1.  Summary

11.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

11.1.2.  Name

11.1.3.  URI

11.1.4.  Description

11.1.5.  Reference

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

11.1.6.  Change Controller

11.1.7.  Version (of Registry Format)

11.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

11.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

11.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

11.3.  Method of Measurement

11.3.1.  Reference Method

11.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

11.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

11.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

11.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

11.3.6.  Roles

11.4.  Output

11.4.1.  Type

11.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

11.4.3.  Metric Units

11.4.4.  Calibration

11.5.  Administrative Items

11.5.1.  Status

11.5.2.  Requester

11.5.3.  Revision

11.5.4.  Revision Date

11.6.  Comments and Remarks

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

1.  Introduction

The IETF speciﬁes and uses Performance Metrics of protocols and applications transported over
its protocols. Performance Metrics are an important part of network operations using IETF
 speciﬁes guidelines for their development.
protocols, and

[RFC6390]

The deﬁnition and use of Performance Metrics in the IETF have been fostered in various working
groups (WGs). Most notably:

•

The "IP Performance Metrics" (IPPM) WG is the WG primarily focusing on Performance
Metrics deﬁnition at the IETF.

•

The "Benchmarking Methodology" WG (BMWG) deﬁnes many Performance Metrics for use
in laboratory benchmarking of internetworking technologies.

•

The "Metric Blocks for use with RTCP's Extended Report Framework" (XRBLOCK) WG
(concluded) speciﬁed many Performance Metrics related to "RTP Control Protocol Extended
Reports (RTCP XR)"
conveyed in RTCP, supplementing the original report blocks deﬁned in "RTP: A Transport
Protocol for Real-Time Applications"

, which establishes a framework to allow new information to be

[RFC3611]

[RFC3550]

.

•

The "IP Flow Information eXport" (IPFIX) WG (concluded) speciﬁed an Internet Assigned
Numbers Authority (IANA) process for new Information Elements. Some Information
Elements related to Performance Metrics are proposed on a regular basis.

•

The "Performance Metrics for Other Layers" (PMOL) WG (concluded) deﬁned some
Performance Metrics related to Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) voice quality

[RFC6035]

.

It is expected that more Performance Metrics will be deﬁned in the future -- not only IP-based
metrics but also metrics that are protocol speciﬁc and application speciﬁc.

Despite the importance of Performance Metrics, there are two related problems for the industry:

•

First, ensuring that when one party requests that another party measure (or report or in
some way act on) a particular Performance Metric, both parties have exactly the same
understanding of what Performance Metric is being referred to.

•

Second, discovering which Performance Metrics have been speciﬁed, to avoid developing a
new Performance Metric that is very similar but not quite interoperable.

These problems can be addressed by creating a Registry for Performance Metrics with the
Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA). As such, this document deﬁnes the new IANA
Registry for Performance Metrics.

Per this document, IANA has created and now maintains the Performance Metrics Registry,
according to the maintenance procedures and the format deﬁned in the sections below. The
resulting Performance Metrics Registry is for use by the IETF and others. Although the Registry
formatting speciﬁcations herein are primarily for Registry creation by IANA, any other
organization that wishes to create a Performance Metrics Registry may use the same formatting
speciﬁcations for their purposes. The authors make no guarantee of the Registry format's

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

applicability to any possible set of Performance Metrics envisaged by other organizations, but we
encourage others to apply it. In the remainder of this document, unless we explicitly say
otherwise, we will refer to the IANA-maintained Performance Metrics Registry as simply the
Performance Metrics Registry.

2.  Terminology

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

Performance Metric:

A quantitative measure of performance, targeted to an IETF-speciﬁed

protocol or targeted to an application transported over an IETF-speciﬁed protocol. Examples
of Performance Metrics are the FTP response time for a complete ﬁle download, the DNS
Response time to resolve the IP address(es), a database logging time, etc. This deﬁnition is
consistent with the deﬁnition of a metric in
Performance Metric in

 and broader than the deﬁnition of a

[RFC2330]

[RFC6390]

.

Registered Performance Metric:

A Performance Metric expressed as an entry in the

Performance Metrics Registry, administered by IANA. Such a Performance Metric has met all
of the Registry review criteria deﬁned in this document in order to be included in the Registry.

Performance Metrics Registry:

The IANA Registry containing Registered Performance Metrics.

Proprietary Registry:

A set of metrics that are registered in a proprietary Registry, as opposed to

the Performance Metrics Registry.

Performance Metrics Experts:

A group of designated experts
validate the Performance Metrics before updating the Performance Metrics Registry. The
Performance Metrics Experts work closely with IANA.

 selected by the IESG to

[RFC8126]

Parameter:

An input factor deﬁned as a variable in the deﬁnition of a Performance Metric. A

Parameter is a numerical or other speciﬁed factor forming one of a set that deﬁnes a metric or
sets the conditions of its operation. All Parameters must be known in order to make a
measurement using a metric and interpret the results. There are two types of Parameters:
Fixed and Runtime. For the Fixed Parameters, the value of the variable is speciﬁed in the
Performance Metrics Registry Entry and diﬀerent Fixed Parameter values results in diﬀerent
Registered Performance Metrics. For the Runtime Parameters, the value of the variable is
deﬁned when the Metric Measurement Method is executed and a given Registered
Performance Metric supports multiple values for the Parameter. Although Runtime
Parameters do not change the fundamental nature of the Performance Metric's deﬁnition,
some have substantial inﬂuence on the network property being assessed and interpretation of
the results.

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

Note: Consider the case of packet loss in the following two Active Measurement
Method cases. The ﬁrst case is packet loss as background loss where the Runtime
Parameter set includes a very sparse Poisson stream and only characterizes the
times when packets were lost. Actual user streams likely see much higher loss at
these times, due to tail drop or radio errors. The second case is packet loss ratio as
the complimentary probability of delivery ratio where the Runtime Parameter set
includes a very dense, bursty stream, and characterizes the loss experienced by a
stream that approximates a user stream. These are both "Loss metrics", but the
diﬀerence in interpretation of the results is highly dependent on the Runtime
Parameters (at least), to the extreme where we are actually using loss ratio to infer
its complimentary probability: delivery ratio.

Active Measurement Methods:

Methods of Measurement conducted on traﬃc that serves only

the purpose of measurement and is generated for that reason alone, and whose traﬃc
characteristics are known a priori. The complete deﬁnition of Active Methods is speciﬁed in
Section 3.4 of [RFC7799]
Methods for the one-way delay metric deﬁned in
deﬁned in

. Examples of Active Measurement Methods are the Measurement

 and the round-trip delay metric

[RFC7679]

[RFC2681]

.

Passive Measurement Methods:

Methods of Measurement conducted on network traﬃc,

generated by either (1) the end users or (2) network elements that would exist regardless of
whether the measurement was being conducted or not. The complete deﬁnition of Passive
Methods is speciﬁed in
. One characteristic of Passive Measurement
Methods is that sensitive information may be observed and, as a consequence, stored in the
measurement system.

Section 3.6 of [RFC7799]

Hybrid Measurement Methods:

Methods of Measurement that use a combination of Active

Methods and Passive Methods, to assess Active Metrics, Passive Metrics, or new metrics
derived from the a priori knowledge and observations of the stream of interest. The complete
deﬁnition of Hybrid Methods is speciﬁed in

Section 3.8 of [RFC7799]

.

3.  Scope

This document is intended for two diﬀerent audiences:

1.

For those preparing a candidate Performance Metric, it provides criteria that the proposal
 meet (see Section 5). It also provides instructions for writing the text for each
SHOULD
column of the candidate Performance Metric and the references required for the new
Performance Metrics Registry Entry (up to and including the publication of one or more
immutable documents such as an RFC) (see Section 7).

2.

For the appointed Performance Metrics Experts and for IANA personnel administering the
new IANA Performance Metrics Registry, it deﬁnes a set of acceptance criteria against which
a candidate Registered Performance Metric should be evaluated, and requirements for the
composition of a candidate Performance Metric Registry Entry.

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

Other organizations that standardize performance metrics are encouraged to use the process
deﬁned in this memo to propose a candidate Registered Performance Metric. In addition, this
document may be useful for other organizations who are deﬁning a Performance Metrics
Registry of their own and may reuse the features of the Performance Metrics Registry deﬁned in
this document.

This Performance Metrics Registry is applicable to Performance Metrics derived from Active
Measurement, Passive Measurement, and any other form of Performance Metric. This Registry is
designed to encompass Performance Metrics developed throughout the IETF and especially for
the technologies speciﬁed in the following working groups: IPPM, XRBLOCK, IPFIX, and BMWG.
This document analyzes a prior attempt to set up a Performance Metrics Registry and the
[RFC6248]
reasons why this design was inadequate

.

[RFC8912]

 populates the new Registry with the initial set of entries.

4.  Motivations for the Performance Metrics Registry

In this section, we detail several motivations for the Performance Metrics Registry.

4.1.  Interoperability

As with any IETF Registry, the primary intention is to manage the registration of Identiﬁers for
use within one or more protocols. In the particular case of the Performance Metrics Registry,
there are two types of protocols that will use the Performance Metrics in the Performance Metrics
Registry during their operation (by referring to the index values):

Control Protocol:

[RFC7594]

This type of protocol is used to allow one entity to request that another entity
perform a measurement using a speciﬁc metric deﬁned by the Performance Metrics Registry.
One particular example is the Large-scale Measurement of Broadband Performance (LMAP)
framework
. Using the LMAP terminology, the Performance Metrics Registry is used
in the LMAP Control Protocol to allow a Controller to schedule a Measurement Task for one or
more Measurement Agents. In order to enable this use case, the entries in the Performance
Metrics Registry must be suﬃciently deﬁned to allow a Measurement Agent implementation
to trigger a speciﬁc Measurement Task upon the reception of a Control Protocol message. This
requirement heavily constrains the types of entries that are acceptable for the Performance
Metrics Registry.

Report Protocol:

This type of protocol is used to allow an entity to report Measurement Results
to another entity. By referencing to a speciﬁc Registered Performance Metric, it is possible to
properly characterize the Measurement Result data being reported. Using the LMAP
terminology, the Performance Metrics Registry is used in the LMAP Report Protocol to allow a
Measurement Agent to report Measurement Results to a Collector.

It should be noted that the LMAP framework explicitly allows for using not only the IANA-
maintained Performance Metrics Registry but also other registries containing Performance
Metrics, i.e., either (1) registries deﬁned by other organizations or (2) private registries. However,

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

others who are creating registries to be used in the context of an LMAP framework are
encouraged to use the Registry format deﬁned in this document, because this makes it easier for
developers of LMAP Measurement Agents to programmatically use information found in those
other registries' entries.

4.2.  Single Point of Reference for Performance Metrics

A Performance Metrics Registry serves as a single point of reference for Performance Metrics
deﬁned in diﬀerent working groups in the IETF. As we mentioned earlier, there are several
working groups that deﬁne Performance Metrics in the IETF, and it is hard to keep track of all of
them. This results in multiple deﬁnitions of similar Performance Metrics that attempt to measure
the same phenomena but in slightly diﬀerent (and incompatible) ways. Having a Registry would
allow the IETF community and others to have a single list of relevant Performance Metrics
deﬁned by the IETF (and others, where appropriate). The single list is also an essential aspect of
communication about Performance Metrics, where diﬀerent entities that request measurements,
execute measurements, and report the results can beneﬁt from a common understanding of the
referenced Performance Metric.

4.3.  Side Beneﬁts

[RFC6576]

There are a couple of side beneﬁts of having such a Registry. First, the Performance Metrics
Registry could serve as an inventory of useful and used Performance Metrics that are normally
supported by diﬀerent implementations of Measurement Agents. Second, the results of
measurements using the Performance Metrics should be comparable even if they are performed
by diﬀerent implementations and in diﬀerent networks, as the Performance Metric is properly
deﬁned. BCP 176
implementations are equivalent in the context of evaluating the completeness and clarity of
metric speciﬁcations.
[RFC2026]
advancement testing for (Active) IPPM Metrics, and the same process will likely suﬃce to
determine whether Registered Performance Metrics are suﬃciently well speciﬁed to result in
comparable (or equivalent) results. If a Registered Performance Metric has undergone such
testing, this
the test results.

 be noted in "Comments and Remarks" (see Section 7.6), with a reference to

 examines whether the results produced by independent

 that deﬁnes the Standards Track

[RFC6576]

 is a BCP

SHOULD

5.  Criteria for Performance Metrics Registration

It is neither possible nor desirable to populate the Performance Metrics Registry with all
combinations of Parameters of all Performance Metrics. A Registered Performance Metric
SHOULD

 be:

1.

Interpretable by the human user.

2.

Implementable by the software or hardware designer.

3.

Deployable by network operators.

4.

Accurate in terms of producing equivalent results, and for interoperability and deployment
across vendors.

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

5.

Operationally useful, so that it has signiﬁcant industry interest and/or has seen deployment.

6.

Suﬃciently tightly deﬁned, so that diﬀerent values for the Runtime Parameters do not change
the fundamental nature of the measurement or change the practicality of its
implementation.

In essence, there needs to be evidence that (1) a candidate Registered Performance Metric has
signiﬁcant industry interest or has seen deployment and (2) there is agreement that the
candidate Registered Performance Metric serves its intended purpose.

6.  Performance Metrics Registry: Prior Attempt

[RFC6248]

There was a previous attempt to deﬁne a Metrics Registry
by
metrics... [there was too much] variability possible when characterizing a metric exactly", which
[RFC4148]
led to the IPPM Metrics Registry deﬁned in

 because it was "found to be insuﬃciently detailed to uniquely identify IPPM

 having "very few users, if any."

. However, it was obsoleted

[RFC4148]

Three interesting additional quotes from
that registry.

[RFC6248]

 might help to understand the issues related to

1.

"It is not believed to be feasible or even useful to register every possible combination of Type
P, metric parameters, and Stream parameters using the current structure of the IPPM Metrics
Registry."

2.

"The current registry structure has been found to be insuﬃciently detailed to uniquely
identify IPPM metrics."

3.

"Despite apparent eﬀorts to ﬁnd current or even future users, no one responded to the call for
interest in the RFC 4148 registry during the second half of 2010."

The current approach learns from this by tightly deﬁning each Registered Performance Metric
with only a few variable (Runtime) Parameters to be speciﬁed by the measurement designer, if
any. The idea is that entries in the Performance Metrics Registry stem from diﬀerent
Measurement Methods that require input (Runtime) Parameters to set factors like Source and
Destination addresses (which do not change the fundamental nature of the measurement). The
downside of this approach is that it could result in a large number of entries in the Performance
Metrics Registry. There is agreement that less is more in this context -- it is better to have a
reduced set of useful metrics rather than a large set of metrics, some with questionable
usefulness.

6.1.  Why This Attempt Should Succeed

As mentioned in the previous section, one of the main issues with the previous Registry was that
the metrics contained in the Registry were too generic to be useful. This document speciﬁes
stricter criteria for Performance Metric registration (see Section 5) and imposes a group of
Performance Metrics Experts that will provide guidelines to assess if a Performance Metric is
properly speciﬁed.

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

Another key diﬀerence between this attempt and the previous one is that in this case there is at
least one clear user for the Performance Metrics Registry: the LMAP framework and protocol.
Because the LMAP protocol will use the Performance Metrics Registry values in its operation, this
actually helps to determine if a metric is properly deﬁned -- in particular, since we expect that the
LMAP Control Protocol will enable a Controller to request that a Measurement Agent perform a
measurement using a given metric by embedding the Performance Metrics Registry Identiﬁer in
the protocol. Such a metric and method are properly speciﬁed if they are deﬁned well enough so
that it is possible (and practical) to implement them in the Measurement Agent. This was the
failure of the previous attempt: a Registry Entry with an undeﬁned Type-P (
[RFC2330]

) allows measurement results to vary signiﬁcantly.

Section 13 of

7.  Deﬁnition of the Performance Metrics Registry

This Performance Metrics Registry is applicable to Performance Metrics used for Active
Measurement, Passive Measurement, and any other form of Performance Measurement. Each
category of measurement has unique properties, so some of the columns deﬁned below are not
applicable for a given metric category. In this case, the column(s)
 be populated with the
"N/A" value (Not Applicable). However, the "N/A" value
following columns: Identiﬁer, Name, URI, Status, Requester, Revision, Revision Date, Description.
In the future, a new category of metrics could require additional columns, and adding new
columns is a recognized form of Registry extension. The speciﬁcation deﬁning the new column(s)
MUST

 give general guidelines for populating the new column(s) for existing entries.

 be used by any metric in the

MUST NOT

SHOULD

The columns of the Performance Metrics Registry are deﬁned below. The columns are grouped
into "Categories" to facilitate the use of the Registry. Categories are described at the "Section 7.x"
heading level, and columns are described at the "Section 7.x.y" heading level. The ﬁgure below
illustrates this organization. An entry (row) therefore gives a complete description of a Registered
Performance Metric.

Each column serves as a checklist item and helps to avoid omissions during registration and
Expert Review

[RFC8126]

.

Registry Categories and Columns are shown below in this format:

    Category
    ------------------...
    Column |  Column |...

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

Summary
----------------------------------------------------------------
Identifier | Name | URI | Desc. | Reference | Change     | Ver |
           |      |     |       |           | Controller |

Metric Definition
-----------------------------------------
Reference Definition | Fixed Parameters |

Method of Measurement
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Reference | Packet     | Traffic | Sampling     | Runtime    | Role |
Method    | Stream     | Filter  | Distribution | Parameters |      |
          | Generation |
Output
-----------------------------------------
Type | Reference  | Units | Calibration |
     | Definition |       |             |

Administrative Information
-------------------------------------
Status |Requester | Rev | Rev. Date |

Comments and Remarks
--------------------

There is a blank template of the Registry template provided in Section 11 of this memo.

7.1.  Summary Category

7.1.1.  Identiﬁer

This column provides a numeric Identiﬁer for the Registered Performance Metric. The Identiﬁer
of each Registered Performance Metric
 be unique. Note that revising a Metric according to
the process in Section 8.2 creates a new entry in the Performance Metrics Registry with the same
identiﬁer.

MUST

The Registered Performance Metric unique Identiﬁer is an unbounded integer (range 0 to
inﬁnity).

The Identiﬁer 0 should be Reserved. The Identiﬁer values from 64512 to 65535 are reserved for
private or experimental use, and the user may encounter overlapping uses.

When adding new Registered Performance Metrics to the Performance Metrics Registry, IANA
SHOULD

 assign the lowest available Identiﬁer to the new Registered Performance Metric.

If a Performance Metrics Expert providing review determines that there is a reason to assign a
speciﬁc numeric Identiﬁer, possibly leaving a temporary gap in the numbering, then the
Performance Metrics Expert

 inform IANA of this decision.

SHALL

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

7.1.2.  Name

As the Name of a Registered Performance Metric is the ﬁrst thing a potential human implementer
will use when determining whether it is suitable for their measurement study, it is important to be
as precise and descriptive as possible. In the future, users will review the Names to determine if
the metric they want to measure has already been registered, or if a similar entry is available, as
a basis for creating a new entry.

Names are composed of the following elements, separated by an underscore character "_":

MetricType_Method_SubTypeMethod_... Spec_Units_Output

MetricType:

A combination of the directional properties and the metric measured, such as and

not limited to:

RTDelay

Round-Trip Delay

RTDNS

Response Time Domain Name Service

RLDNS

Response Loss Domain Name Service

OWDelay

One-Way Delay

RTLoss

Round-Trip Loss

OWLoss

One-Way Loss

OWPDV

One-Way Packet Delay Variation

OWIPDV

One-Way Inter-Packet Delay Variation

OWReorder One-Way Packet Reordering

OWDuplic

One-Way Packet Duplication

OWBTC

One-Way Bulk Transport Capacity

OWMBM

One-Way Model-Based Metric

SPMonitor

Single-Point Monitor

MPMonitor Multi-Point Monitor

Table 1

Method:

One of the methods deﬁned in

[RFC7799]

, such as and not limited to:

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

Active

Passive

depends on a dedicated measurement packet stream and observations of the
stream as described in

[RFC7799]

depends *solely* on observation of one or more existing packet streams as
described in

[RFC7799]

HybridType1 Hybrid Type I observations on one stream that combine both Active Methods

and Passive Methods as described in

[RFC7799]

HybridType2 Hybrid Type II observations on two or more streams that combine both

Active Methods and Passive Methods as described in

[RFC7799]

Spatial

spatial metric as described in

[RFC5644]

Table 2

SubTypeMethod: One or more subtypes to further describe the features of the entry, such as and

not limited to:

ICMP

IP

Internet Control Message Protocol

Internet Protocol

DSCPxx

where xx is replaced by a Diﬀserv code point

UDP

TCP

QUIC

HS

User Datagram Protocol

Transport Control Protocol

QUIC transport protocol

Hand-Shake, such as TCP's 3-way HS

Poisson

packet generation using Poisson distribution

Periodic

periodic packet generation

SendOnRcv

sender keeps one packet in transit by sending when previous packet
arrives

PayloadxxxxB

where xxxx is replaced by an integer, the number of octets or 8-bit Bytes in
the Payload

SustainedBurst

capacity test, worst case

StandingQueue

test of bottleneck queue behavior

Table 3

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

SubTypeMethod values are separated by a hyphen "-" character, which indicates that they
belong to this element and that their order is unimportant when considering Name
uniqueness.

Spec:

An immutable document Identiﬁer combined with a document section Identiﬁer. For

RFCs, this consists of the RFC number and major section number that speciﬁes this Registry
Entry in the form "RFCXXXXsecY", e.g., RFC7799sec3. Note: The RFC number is not the primary
reference speciﬁcation for the metric deﬁnition (e.g.,
speciﬁcation for one-way delay metrics); it will contain the placeholder "RFCXXXXsecY" until
the RFC number is assigned to the specifying document and would remain blank in Private
Registry Entries without a corresponding RFC. Anticipating the "RFC10K" problem, the number
of the RFC continues to replace "RFCXXXX", regardless of the number of digits in the RFC
number. Anticipating Registry Entries from other standards bodies, the form of this Name
Element
Reviewer.

 be proposed and reviewed for consistency and uniqueness by the Expert

 as the primary reference

[RFC7679]

MUST

Units:

The units of measurement for the output, such as and not limited to:

Seconds

Ratio

unitless

Percent

value multiplied by 100%

Logical

1 or 0

Packets

BPS

PPS

bits per second

packets per second

EventTotal

for unitless counts

Multiple

more than one type of unit

Enumerated

a list of outcomes

Unitless

Table 4

Output:

The type of output resulting from measurement, such as and not limited to:

Singleton

Raw

multiple singletons

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

Count

Minimum

Maximum

Median

Mean

95Percentile

95th percentile

99Percentile

99th percentile

StdDev

standard deviation

Variance

PFI

pass, fail, inconclusive

FlowRecords

descriptions of ﬂows observed

LossRatio

lost packets to total packets, <=1

Table 5

An example, as described in

Section 4 of [RFC8912]

, is

RTDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Periodic_RFC8912sec4_Seconds_95Percentile

Note that private registries following the format described here
any Name to avoid unintended conﬂicts (further considerations are described in Section 10).
Private Registry Entries usually have no specifying RFC; thus, the Spec: element has no clear
interpretation.

 use the preﬁx "Priv_" on

SHOULD

7.1.3.  URI

MUST

[RFC3986]

 contain a URL

 that uniquely identiﬁes and locates the Metric

The URI column
Entry so it is accessible through the Internet. The URL points to a ﬁle containing all of the human-
readable information for one Registry Entry. The URL
preferably HTML-formatted and contains URLs to referenced sections of HTMLized RFCs, or
other reference speciﬁcations. These target ﬁles for diﬀerent entries can be more easily edited
and reused when preparing new entries. The exact form of the URL for each target ﬁle, and the
target ﬁle itself, will be determined by IANA and reside on
<https://www.iana.org/> Section 4 of
[RFC8912]
ﬁle in HTML form.

, as well as subsequent major sections of that document, provide an example of a target

 reference a target ﬁle that is

SHALL

.

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

7.1.4.  Description

A Registered Performance Metric description is a written representation of a particular
Performance Metrics Registry Entry. It supplements the Registered Performance Metric Name to
help Performance Metrics Registry users select relevant Registered Performance Metrics.

7.1.5.  Reference

This entry gives the speciﬁcation containing the candidate Registry Entry that was reviewed and
agreed upon, if such an RFC or other speciﬁcation exists.

7.1.6.  Change Controller

This entry names the entity responsible for approving revisions to the Registry Entry and
provide contact information (for an individual, where appropriate).

SHALL

7.1.7.  Version (of Registry Format)

This column gives the version number for the Registry format used, at the time the Performance
Metric is registered. The format complying with this memo
 use 1.0. A new RFC that changes
the Registry format will designate a new version number corresponding to that format. The
version number of Registry Entries
reﬂect the Registry format (following the procedures in Section 8).

 change unless the Registry Entry is updated to

SHALL NOT

MUST

7.2.  Metric Deﬁnition Category

This category includes columns to prompt all necessary details related to the metric deﬁnition,
including the immutable document reference and values of input factors, called "Fixed
Parameters", which are left open in the immutable document but have a particular value deﬁned
by the Performance Metric.

7.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

This entry provides a reference (or references) to the relevant sections of the document or
documents that deﬁne the metric, as well as any supplemental information needed to ensure an
unambiguous deﬁnition for implementations. A given reference needs to be an immutable
document, such as an RFC; for other standards bodies, it is likely to be necessary to reference a
speciﬁc, dated version of a speciﬁcation.

7.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

Fixed Parameters are Parameters whose values must be speciﬁed in the Performance Metrics
Registry. The measurement system uses these values.

Where referenced metrics supply a list of Parameters as part of their descriptive template, a
subset of the Parameters will be designated as Fixed Parameters. As an example for Active
Metrics, Fixed Parameters determine most or all of the IPPM framework convention "packets of
Type-P" as described in
example for Passive Metrics is for an RTP packet loss calculation that relies on the validation of a

, such as transport protocol, payload length, TTL, etc. An

[RFC2330]

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

packet as RTP, which is a multi-packet validation controlled by the MIN_SEQUENTIAL variable as
deﬁned by
variable could be set as a Fixed Parameter.

. Varying MIN_SEQUENTIAL values can alter the loss report, and this

[RFC3550]

MUST

Parameters
preferred, and any Parameter names and deﬁnitions that do not appear in the Reference Method
 appear in this column (or the Runtime Parameters column).
Speciﬁcation

 have well-deﬁned names. For human readers, the hanging-indent style is

MUST

Parameters

MUST

 have a well-speciﬁed data format.

A Parameter that is a Fixed Parameter for one Performance Metrics Registry Entry may be
designated as a Runtime Parameter for another Performance Metrics Registry Entry.

7.3.  Method of Measurement Category

This category includes columns for references to relevant sections of the immutable document(s)
and any supplemental information needed to ensure an unambiguous method for
implementations.

7.3.1.  Reference Method

This entry provides references to relevant sections of immutable documents, such as RFC(s) (for
other standards bodies, it is likely to be necessary to reference a speciﬁc, dated version of a
speciﬁcation) describing the Method of Measurement, as well as any supplemental information
needed to ensure unambiguous interpretation for implementations referring to the immutable
document text.

Speciﬁcally, this section should include pointers to pseudocode or actual code that could be used
for an unambiguous implementation.

7.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

This column applies to Performance Metrics that generate traﬃc as part of their Measurement
Method, including, but not necessarily limited to, Active Metrics. The generated traﬃc is referred
to as a "stream", and this column describes its characteristics.

Each entry for this column contains the following information:

Value:

The name of the packet stream scheduling discipline

Reference:

The speciﬁcation where the Parameters of the stream are deﬁned

The packet generation stream may require Parameters such as the average packet rate and
distribution truncation value for streams with Poisson-distributed inter-packet sending times. If
such Parameters are needed, they should be included in either the Fixed Parameters column or
the Runtime Parameters column, depending on whether they will be ﬁxed or will be an input for
the metric.

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

), where a

[RFC2330]

The simplest example of stream speciﬁcation is singleton scheduling (see
single atomic measurement is conducted. Each atomic measurement could consist of sending a
single packet (such as a DNS request) or sending several packets (for example, to request a web
page). Other streams support a series of atomic measurements using pairs of packets, where the
packet stream follows a schedule deﬁning the timing between transmitted packets, and an
atomic measurement assesses the reception time between successive packets (e.g., a
measurement of Inter-Packet Delay Variation). More complex streams and measurement
relationships are possible. Principally, two diﬀerent streams are used in IPPM Metrics: (1) Poisson,
distributed as described in
. Both Poisson and
periodic have their own unique Parameters, and the relevant set of Parameter names and values
should be included in either the Fixed Parameters column or the Runtime Parameters column.

 and (2) periodic, as described in

[RFC2330]

[RFC3432]

7.3.3.  Traﬃc Filter

This column applies to Performance Metrics that observe packets ﬂowing through (the device
with) the Measurement Agent, i.e., packets that are not necessarily addressed to the Measurement
Agent. This includes, but is not limited to, Passive Metrics. The ﬁlter speciﬁes the traﬃc that is
measured. This includes protocol ﬁeld values/ranges, such as address ranges, and ﬂow or session
Identiﬁers.

The Traﬃc Filter itself depends on the needs of the metric itself and a balance of an operator's
measurement needs and a user's need for privacy. Mechanics for conveying the ﬁlter criteria
might be the BPF (Berkeley Packet Filter) or PSAMP (Packet Sampling)
Filtering, which reuses IPFIX
remote Destination net 192.0.2.0/24 would be "dst net 192.0.2.0/24 and tcp dst port 80". More
complex ﬁlter engines may allow for matching using Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) technology.

. An example BPF string for matching TCP/80 traﬃc to

[RFC5475]

[RFC7012]

 Property Match

The Traﬃc Filter includes the following information:

Type:

The type of Traﬃc Filter used, e.g., BPF, PSAMP, OpenFlow rule, etc., as deﬁned by a

normative reference

Value:

The actual set of rules expressed

7.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

The sampling distribution deﬁnes, out of all of the packets that match the Traﬃc Filter, which one
or more of those packets are actually used for the measurement. One possibility is "all", which
implies that all packets matching the Traﬃc Filter are considered, but there may be other
sampling strategies. It includes the following information:

Value:

The name of the sampling distribution

Reference deﬁnition:

Pointer to the speciﬁcation where the sampling distribution is properly

deﬁned

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

The sampling distribution may require Parameters. If such Parameters are needed, they should be
included in either the Fixed Parameters column or the Runtime Parameters column, depending
on whether they will be ﬁxed or will be an input for the metric.

PSAMP is documented in "Sampling and Filtering Techniques for IP Packet Selection"
while "A Framework for Packet Selection and Reporting"
information. The sampling distribution Parameters might be expressed in terms of the model
described in "Information Model for Packet Sampling Exports"
provided in "Flow Selection Techniques"

[RFC5475]
 provides more background

 and the process

[RFC5474]

[RFC5477]

[RFC7014]

.

,

7.3.5.  Runtime Parameters

In contrast to the Fixed Parameters, Runtime Parameters are Parameters that do not change the
fundamental nature of the measurement and their values are not speciﬁed in the Performance
Metrics Registry. They are left as variables in the Registry, as an aid to the measurement system
implementer or user. Their values are supplied on execution, conﬁgured into the measurement
system, and reported with the Measurement Results (so that the context is complete).

Where metrics supply a list of Parameters as part of their descriptive template, a subset of the
Parameters will be designated as Runtime Parameters.

MUST

Parameters
preferred, and the names and deﬁnitions that do not appear in the Reference Method
Speciﬁcation

 have well-deﬁned names. For human readers, the hanging-indent style is

 appear in this column.

MUST

MUST

 be speciﬁed in this column, to simplify the

A data format for each Runtime Parameter
control and implementation of measurement devices. For example, Parameters that include an
IPv4 address can be encoded as a 32-bit integer (i.e., a binary base64-encoded value) or
"ip‑address" as deﬁned in
each Runtime Parameter. IPv6 addresses and options
Registered Performance Metrics to be used in that address family. Other address families are
permissible.

. The actual encoding(s) used must be explicitly deﬁned for

 be accommodated, allowing

[RFC6991]

MUST

Examples of Runtime Parameters include IP addresses, measurement point designations, start
times and end times for measurement, and other information essential to the Method of
Measurement.

7.3.6.  Role

In some Methods of Measurement, there may be several Roles deﬁned, e.g., for a one-way packet
delay Active Measurement, there is one Measurement Agent that generates the packets and
another Agent that receives the packets. This column contains the name of the Role(s) for this
particular entry. In the one-way delay example above, there should be two entries in the Registry's
Role column, one for each Role (Source and Destination). When a Measurement Agent is
instructed to perform the "Source" Role for the one-way delay metric, the Agent knows that it is
required to generate packets. The values for this ﬁeld are deﬁned in the Reference Method of
Measurement (and this frequently results in abbreviated Role names such as "Src").

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

 be treated
When the Role column of a Registry Entry deﬁnes more than one Role, the Role
as a Runtime Parameter and supplied for execution. It should be noted that the LMAP framework
[RFC7594]

 distinguishes the Role from other Runtime Parameters.

SHALL

7.4.  Output Category

For entries that involve a stream and many singleton measurements, a statistic may be speciﬁed
in this column to summarize the results to a single value. If the complete set of measured
singletons is output, this will be speciﬁed here.

Some metrics embed one speciﬁc statistic in the reference metric deﬁnition, while others allow
several output types or statistics.

7.4.1.  Type

This column contains the name of the output type. The output type deﬁnes a single type of result
that the metric produces. It can be the raw results (packet send times and singleton metrics), or it
can be a summary statistic. The speciﬁcation of the output type
output. In some systems, format speciﬁcations will simplify both measurement implementation
and collection/storage tasks. Note that if two diﬀerent statistics are required from a single
measurement (for example, both "Xth percentile mean" and "Raw"), then a new output type must
be deﬁned ("Xth percentile mean AND Raw"). See Section 7.1.2 above for a list of output types.

 deﬁne the format of the

MUST

7.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

This column contains a pointer to the speciﬁcation(s) where the output type and format are
deﬁned.

7.4.3.  Metric Units

The measured results must be expressed using some standard dimension or units of measure. This
column provides the units.

When a sample of singletons (see
collected, this entry will specify the units for each measured value.

Section 11 of [RFC2330]

 for deﬁnitions of these terms) is

7.4.4.  Calibration

Section 3.7.3 of [RFC7679]

 is one example. In the Registry Entry, this ﬁeld will identify

Some speciﬁcations for Methods of Measurement include the ability to perform an error
calibration.
a method of calibration for the metric, and, when available, the measurement system
SHOULD
perform the calibration when requested and produce the output with an indication that it is the
result of a calibration method. In-situ calibration could be enabled with an internal loopback that
includes as much of the measurement system as possible, performs address manipulation as
needed, and provides some form of isolation (e.g., deterministic delay) to avoid send-receive
interface contention. Some portion of the random and systematic error can be characterized in
this way.

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

For one-way delay measurements, the error calibration must include an assessment of the
internal clock synchronization with its external reference (this internal clock is supplying
timestamps for measurement). In practice, the time oﬀsets of clocks at both the Source and
Destination are needed to estimate the systematic error due to imperfect clock synchronization
(the time oﬀsets are smoothed; thus, the random variation is not usually represented in the
results).

Both internal loopback calibration and clock synchronization can be used to estimate the
*available accuracy* of the Output Metric Units. For example, repeated loopback delay
measurements will reveal the portion of the output result resolution that is the result of system
noise and is thus inaccurate.

7.5.  Administrative Information

7.5.1.  Status

This entry indicates the status of the speciﬁcation of this Registered Performance Metric. Allowed
values are 'Current', 'Deprecated', and 'Obsolete'. All newly deﬁned Registered Performance
Metrics have 'Current' Status.

7.5.2.  Requester

This entry indicates the requester for the Registered Performance Metric. The requester
document (such as an RFC) or a person.

MAY

 be a

7.5.3.  Revision

This entry indicates the revision number of a Registered Performance Metric, starting at 0 for
Registered Performance Metrics at the time of deﬁnition and incremented by one for each
revision. However, in the case of a non-backward-compatible revision, see Section 8.3.

7.5.4.  Revision Date

This entry indicates the date of acceptance of the most recent revision for the Registered
Performance Metric. The date
Metrics Expert.

 be determined by IANA and the reviewing Performance

SHALL

7.6.  Comments and Remarks

Besides providing additional details that do not appear in other categories, this open category
(single column) allows unforeseen issues to be addressed by simply updating this informational
entry.

8.  Processes for Managing the Performance Metrics Registry
Group

Once a Performance Metric or set of Performance Metrics has been identiﬁed for a given
application, candidate Performance Metrics Registry Entry speciﬁcations prepared in
accordance with Section 7 should be submitted to IANA to follow the process for review by the

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

Performance Metrics Experts, as deﬁned below. This process is also used for other changes to a
Performance Metrics Registry Entry, such as deprecation or revision, as described later in this
section.

It is desirable that the author(s) of a candidate Performance Metrics Registry Entry seek review in
the relevant IETF working group or oﬀer the opportunity for review on the working group mailing
list.

8.1.  Adding New Performance Metrics to the Performance Metrics Registry

[RFC8126]

Requests to add Registered Performance Metrics in the Performance Metrics Registry
submitted to IANA, which forwards the request to a designated group of experts (Performance
Metrics Experts) appointed by the IESG; these are the reviewers called for by the Speciﬁcation
Required policy
Metrics Experts review the request for such things as compliance with this document, compliance
with other applicable Performance Metrics-related RFCs, and consistency with the currently
deﬁned set of Registered Performance Metrics. The most eﬃcient path for submission begins with
preparation of an Internet-Draft containing the proposed Performance Metrics Registry Entry
using the template in Section 11, so that the submission formatting will beneﬁt from the normal
IETF Internet-Draft submission processing (including HTMLization).

 deﬁned for the Performance Metrics Registry. The Performance

SHALL

 be

Submission to IANA may be during IESG review (leading to IETF Standards Action), where an
Internet-Draft proposes one or more Registered Performance Metrics to be added to the
Performance Metrics Registry, including the text of the proposed Registered Performance
Metric(s).

If an RFC-to-be includes a Performance Metric and a proposed Performance Metrics Registry
Entry but the Performance Metrics Expert's review determines that one or more of the criteria
listed in Section 5 have not been met, then the proposed Performance Metrics Registry Entry
 be removed from the text. Once evidence exists that the Performance Metric meets the
MUST
criteria in Section 5, the proposed Performance Metrics Registry Entry
IANA to be evaluated in consultation with the Performance Metrics Experts for registration at
that time.

 be submitted to

SHOULD

Authors of proposed Registered Performance Metrics
speciﬁcations in this document to check their submissions before sending them to IANA.

 review compliance with the

SHOULD

At least one Performance Metrics Expert should endeavor to complete referred reviews in a
timely manner. If the request is acceptable, the Performance Metrics Experts signify their
approval to IANA, and IANA updates the Performance Metrics Registry. If the request is not
acceptable, the Performance Metrics Experts
request so that it is compliant; otherwise, IANA
the expert. The Performance Metrics Experts
inappropriate change requests outright, but such exceptional circumstances should be rare.

 choose to reject clearly frivolous or

 coordinate with the requester to change the

 coordinate resolution of issues on behalf of

SHALL

MAY

MAY

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

If the proposed Metric is unique in a signiﬁcant way, in order to properly describe the Metric, it
may be necessary to propose a new Name Element Registry, or (more likely) a new Entry in an
existing Name Element Registry. This proposal is part of the request for the new Metric, so that it
undergoes the same IANA review and approval process.

Decisions by the Performance Metrics Experts may be appealed per

Section 10 of [RFC8126]

.

8.2.  Backward-Compatible Revision of Registered Performance Metrics

A request for revision is only permitted when the requested changes maintain backward
compatibility with implementations of the prior Performance Metrics Registry Entry describing a
Registered Performance Metric (entries with lower revision numbers but having the same
Identiﬁer and Name).

The purpose of the Status ﬁeld in the Performance Metrics Registry is to indicate whether the
entry for a Registered Performance Metric is 'Current', 'Deprecated', or 'Obsolete'. The term
'deprecated' is used when an entry is replaced, either with a backwards-compatible revision (this
sub-section) or with a non-backwards-compatible revision (in Section 8.3).

In addition, no policy is deﬁned for revising the Performance Metric Entries in the IANA Registry
or addressing errors therein. To be clear, changes and deprecations within the Performance
Metrics Registry are not encouraged and should be avoided to the extent possible. However, in
recognition that change is inevitable, the provisions of this section address the need for revisions.

Revisions are initiated by sending a candidate Registered Performance Metric deﬁnition to IANA,
per Section 8.1, identifying the existing Performance Metrics Registry Entry, and explaining how
and why the existing entry should be revised.

The primary requirement in the deﬁnition of procedures for managing changes to existing
Registered Performance Metrics is avoidance of measurement interoperability problems; the
Performance Metrics Experts must work to maintain interoperability above all else. Changes to
Registered Performance Metrics may only be done in an interoperable way; necessary changes
that cannot be done in a way that allows interoperability with unchanged implementations
result in the creation of a new Registered Performance Metric (with a new Name, replacing the
RFCXXXXsecY portion of the Name) and possibly the deprecation of the earlier metric.

MUST

A change to a Registered Performance Metric
when:

SHALL

 be determined to be backward compatible

1.

it involves the correction of an error that is obviously only editorial, or

2.

it corrects an ambiguity in the Registered Performance Metric's deﬁnition, which itself leads
to issues severe enough to prevent the Registered Performance Metric's usage as originally
deﬁned, or

3.

it corrects missing information in the metric deﬁnition without changing its meaning (e.g.,
the explicit deﬁnition of 'quantity' semantics for numeric ﬁelds without a Data Type
Semantics value), or

4.

it harmonizes with an external reference that was itself corrected, or

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

5.

if the current Registry format has been revised by adding a new column that is not relevant
to an existing Registered Performance Metric (i.e., the new column can be safely ﬁlled in with
"Not Applicable").

If a Performance Metric revision is deemed permissible and backward compatible by the
Performance Metrics Experts, according to the rules in this document, IANA
change(s) in the Performance Metrics Registry. The requester of the change is appended to the
original requester in the Performance Metrics Registry. The Name of the revised Registered
Performance Metric, including the RFCXXXXsecY portion of the Name,
even when the change is the result of IETF Standards Action. The revised Registry Entry
reference the new immutable document, such as an RFC. For other standards bodies, it is likely to
be necessary to reference a speciﬁc, dated version of a speciﬁcation, in an appropriate category
and column.

 remain unchanged

 execute the

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHALL

Each Registered Performance Metric in the Performance Metrics Registry has a revision number,
starting at zero. Each change to a Registered Performance Metric following this process
increments the revision number by one.

When a revised Registered Performance Metric is accepted into the Performance Metrics
Registry, the date of acceptance of the most recent revision is placed into the Revision Date
column of the Registry for that Registered Performance Metric.

Where applicable, additions to Registered Performance Metrics in the form of text in the
Comments or Remarks column should include the date, but such additions may not constitute a
revision according to this process.

Older versions of the updated Metric Entries are kept in the Registry for archival purposes. The
older entries are kept with all ﬁelds unmodiﬁed (including Revision Date) except for the Status
ﬁeld, which

 be changed to 'Deprecated'.

SHALL

This process should not in any way be construed as allowing the Performance Metrics Experts to
overrule IETF consensus. Speciﬁcally, any Registered Performance Metrics that were added to the
Performance Metrics Registry with IETF consensus require IETF consensus for revision or
deprecation.

8.3.  Non-Backward-Compatible Deprecation of Registered Performance
Metrics

This section describes how to make a non-backward-compatible update to a Registered
Performance Metric. A Registered Performance Metric

 be deprecated and replaced when:

MAY

1.

the Registered Performance Metric deﬁnition has an error or shortcoming that cannot be
permissibly changed per Section 8.2 ("Revising Registered Performance Metrics"), or

2.

the deprecation harmonizes with an external reference that was itself deprecated through
that reference's accepted deprecation method.

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

A request for deprecation is sent to IANA, which passes it to the Performance Metrics Experts for
review. When deprecating a Performance Metric, the Performance Metric Description in the
Performance Metrics Registry
the new Performance Metric created to replace the deprecated Performance Metric.

 be updated to explain the deprecation, as well as to refer to

MUST

When a new, non-backward-compatible Performance Metric replaces a (now) deprecated metric,
the revision number of the new Registered Performance Metric is incremented over the value in
the deprecated version, and the current date is entered as the Revision Date of the new Registered
Performance Metric.

The intentional use of deprecated Registered Performance Metrics should result in a log entry or
human-readable warning by the respective application.

Names and Metric IDs of deprecated Registered Performance Metrics must not be reused.

The deprecated entries are kept with all Administrative columns unmodiﬁed, except the Status
ﬁeld (which is changed to 'Deprecated').

8.4.  Obsolete Registry Entries

Existing Registry Entries may become obsolete over time due to:

1.

the Registered Performance Metric is found to contain considerable errors (and no one sees
the value in the eﬀort to ﬁx it), or

2.

one or more critical References (or sections thereof) have been designated obsolete by the
SDO, or

3.

other reasons brought to the attention of IANA and the Registry Experts.

When a Performance Metric Registry Entry is declared obsolete, the Performance Metric
Description in the Performance Metrics Registry is updated to explain the reasons the Entry is
now obsolete and has not been replaced (Deprecation always involves replacement).

Obsolete entries are kept with all Administrative columns unmodiﬁed, except the Status ﬁeld
(which is changed to 'Obsolete').

8.5.  Registry Format Version and Future Changes/Extensions

The Registry Format Version deﬁned in this memo is 1.0, and candidate Registry Entries
complying with this memo

 use 1.0.

MUST

The Registry Format can only be updated by publishing a new RFC with the new format
(Standards Action).

When a Registered Performance Metric is created or revised, then it uses the most recent Registry
Format Version.

Only one form of Registry extension is envisaged:

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

Adding columns, or both categories and columns, to accommodate unanticipated aspects of
new measurements and metric categories.

If the Performance Metrics Registry is extended in this way, the version number of future entries
complying with the extension
depending on the degree of extension).

 be incremented (in either the unit or the tenths digit,

SHALL

9.  Security Considerations

This document deﬁnes a Registry structure and does not itself introduce any new security
considerations for the Internet. The deﬁnition of Performance Metrics for this Registry may
introduce some security concerns, but the mandatory references should have their own
considerations for security, and such deﬁnitions should be reviewed with security in mind if the
security considerations are not covered by one or more reference standards.

The aggregated results of the Performance Metrics described in this Registry might reveal
network topology information that may be considered sensitive. If such cases are found, then
access control mechanisms should be applied.

10.  IANA Considerations

With the background and processes described in earlier sections, IANA has taken the actions
described below.

10.1.  Registry Group

The new Registry group is named Performance Metrics. This document refers to it as the
"Performance Metrics Group" or "Registry Group", meaning all registrations appearing on
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics>.

For clarity, note that this document and
various IANA registries related to Performance Metrics.

[RFC8912]

 use the following conventions to refer to the

RFC 8911 and RFC 8912

IANA Web page

Page Title

Performance Metrics Group

Performance Metrics

Main Registry

Performance Metrics Registry

Performance Metrics Registry

Registry Row

Performance Metrics Registry Entry

registration (also template)

Table 6

Registration Procedure: Speciﬁcation Required

Reference: RFC 8911

Experts: Performance Metrics Experts

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

10.2.  Performance Metrics Name Elements

This memo speciﬁes and populates the Registries for the Performance Metric Name Elements. The
Name assigned to a Performance Metric Registry Entry consists of multiple Elements separated
by an "_" (underscore), in the order deﬁned in Section 7.1.2. IANA has created the following
registries, which contain the current set of possibilities for each Element in the Performance
Metric Name.

MetricType

Method

SubTypeMethod

Spec

Units

Output

At creation, IANA has populated the Registered Performance Metrics Name Elements using the
lists of values for each Name Element listed in Section 7.1.2. The Name Elements in each Registry
are case sensitive.

When preparing a Metric Entry for registration, the developer
 choose Name Elements
from among the registered elements. However, if the proposed metric is unique in a signiﬁcant
way, it may be necessary to propose a new Name Element to properly describe the metric, as
described below.

SHOULD

A candidate Metric Entry proposes a set of values for its Name Elements. These are reviewed by
IANA and an Expert Reviewer. It is possible that a candidate Metric Entry proposes a new value
for a Name Element (that is, one that is not in the existing list of possibilities), or even that it
proposes a new Name Element. Such new assignments are administered by IANA through the
, which includes Expert Review (i.e., review by one of a
Speciﬁcation Required policy
group of Performance Metrics Experts, who are appointed by the IESG upon recommendation of
the Transport Area Directors).

[RFC8126]

10.3.  New Performance Metrics Registry

This document speciﬁes the Performance Metrics Registry. The Registry contains the following
columns in the Summary category:

Identiﬁer

Name

URI

Description

Reference

Change Controller

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

Version

Descriptions of these columns and additional information found in the template for Registry
Entries (categories and columns) are further deﬁned in Section 7.

The Identiﬁer 0 should be Reserved. The Registered Performance Metric unique Identiﬁer is an
unbounded integer (range 0 to inﬁnity). The Identiﬁer values from 64512 to 65535 are reserved for
private or experimental use, and the user may encounter overlapping uses. When adding new
 assign the
Registered Performance Metrics to the Performance Metrics Registry, IANA
lowest available Identiﬁer to the new Registered Performance Metric. If a Performance Metrics
Expert providing review determines that there is a reason to assign a speciﬁc numeric Identiﬁer,
possibly leaving a temporary gap in the numbering, then the Performance Metrics Expert
SHALL
inform IANA of this decision.

SHOULD

Names starting with the preﬁx "Priv_" are reserved for private use and are not considered for
registration. The Name column entries are further deﬁned in Section 7.

The URI column will have a URL to each completed Registry Entry. The Registry Entry text
be HTMLized to aid the reader (similar to the way that Internet-Drafts are HTMLized, the same
tool can perform the function), with links to referenced section(s) of an RFC or another
immutable document.

SHALL

The Reference column will include an RFC number, an approved speciﬁcation designator from
another standards body, or some other immutable document.

New assignments for the Performance Metrics Registry will be administered by IANA through the
Speciﬁcation Required policy
group of experts -- in the case of this document, the Performance Metrics Experts, who are
appointed by the IESG upon recommendation of the Transport Area Directors) or by Standards
Action. The experts can be initially drawn from the Working Group Chairs, document editors, and
members of the Performance Metrics Directorate, among other sources of experts.

 (which includes Expert Review, i.e., review by one of a

[RFC8126]

Extensions to the Performance Metrics Registry require IETF Standards Action. Only one form of
Registry extension is envisaged:

•

Adding columns, or both categories and columns, to accommodate unanticipated aspects of
new measurements and metric categories.

If the Performance Metrics Registry is extended in this way, the version number of future entries
complying with the extension
depending on the degree of extension).

 be incremented (in either the unit or the tenths digit,

SHALL

11.  Blank Registry Template

This section provides a blank template to help IANA and Registry Entry writers.

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

11.1.  Summary

This category includes multiple indexes to the Registry Entry: the element ID and Metric Name.

11.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

<insert a numeric Identiﬁer, an integer, TBD>

11.1.2.  Name

<insert the Name, according to the metric naming convention>

11.1.3.  URI

URL:

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/

 ... <Name>

11.1.4.  Description

<provide a description>

11.1.5.  Reference

<provide the RFC or other speciﬁcation that contains the approved candidate Registry Entry>

11.1.6.  Change Controller

<provide information regarding the entity responsible for approving revisions to the Registry
Entry (including contact information for an individual, where appropriate)>

11.1.7.  Version (of Registry Format)

11.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

This category includes columns to prompt the entry of all necessary details related to the metric
deﬁnition, including the immutable document reference and values of input factors, called "Fixed
Parameters".

11.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

<provide a full bibliographic reference to an immutable document>

<provide a speciﬁc section reference and additional clariﬁcations, if needed>

11.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

<list and specify Fixed Parameters, input factors that must be determined and embedded in the
measurement system for use when needed>

11.3.  Method of Measurement

This category includes columns for references to relevant sections of the immutable document(s)
and any supplemental information needed to ensure an unambiguous method for
implementations.

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

11.3.1.  Reference Method

<for the metric, insert relevant section references and supplemental info>

11.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

<provide a list of generation Parameters and section/spec references if needed>

11.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

This category provides the ﬁlter details (when present), which qualify the set of packets that
contribute to the measured results from among all packets observed.

<provide a section reference>

11.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

<insert time distribution details, or how this is diﬀerent from the ﬁlter>

11.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

Runtime Parameters are input factors that must be determined, conﬁgured into the
measurement system, and reported with the results for the context to be complete.

<provide a list of Runtime Parameters and their data formats>

11.3.6.  Roles

<list the names of the diﬀerent Roles from the Measurement Method>

11.4.  Output

This category speciﬁes all details of the output of measurements using the metric.

11.4.1.  Type

<insert the name of the output type -- raw results or a selected summary statistic>

11.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

<describe the reference data format for each type of result>

11.4.3.  Metric Units

<insert units for the measured results, and provide the reference speciﬁcation>

11.4.4.  Calibration

<insert information on calibration>

11.5.  Administrative Items

This category provides administrative information.

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

11.5.1.  Status

<provide status: 'Current' or 'Deprecated'>

11.5.2.  Requester

<provide a person's name, an RFC number, etc.>

11.5.3.  Revision

<provide the revision number: starts at 0>

11.5.4.  Revision Date

<provide the date, in YYYY-MM-DD format>

11.6.  Comments and Remarks

<list any additional (informational) details for this entry>

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[RFC2026]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2330]

[RFC3986]

[RFC5644]

[RFC6390]

[RFC6576]

Bradner, S. "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3" BCP 9 RFC 2026 DOI
10.17487/RFC2026

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2026>
.

, October 1996,

,

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

, and
Paxson, V. Almes, G. Mahdavi, J.
,
Performance Metrics" RFC 2330 DOI 10.17487/RFC2330
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2330>

,

,

,

M. Mathis "Framework for IP

, May 1998,

<https://

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
,
,
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):
<https://

, January 2005,

,

,

,

, and
Stephan, E. Liang, L.
,
and Multicast" RFC 5644 DOI 10.17487/RFC5644
.
editor.org/info/rfc5644>

,

,

A. Morton "IP Performance Metrics (IPPM): Spatial

, October 2009,

<https://www.rfc-

B. Claise "Guidelines for Considering New Performance Metric

 and

Clark, A.
,
Development" BCP 170 RFC 6390 DOI 10.17487/RFC6390
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6390>

,

,

,

, October 2011,

<https://

,

, and
Geib, R., Ed. Morton, A. Fardid, R.
(IPPM) Standard Advancement Testing" BCP 176 RFC 6576 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6576

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6576>

A. Steinmitz "IP Performance Metrics

, March 2012,

,

,

,

,

,

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

[RFC7799]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

Morton, A. "Active and Passive Metrics and Methods (with Hybrid Types In-
,
Between)" RFC 7799 DOI 10.17487/RFC7799
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7799>
.

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2016,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>
.

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

12.2.  Informative References

[RFC2681]

[RFC3432]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3611]

[RFC4148]

[RFC5474]

[RFC5475]

[RFC5477]

[RFC6035]

Almes, G. Kalidindi, S.
RFC 2681 DOI 10.17487/RFC2681
.
info/rfc2681>

, and

,
,

,
, September 1999,

M. Zekauskas "A Round-trip Delay Metric for IPPM"
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,
, and
Raisanen, V. Grotefeld, G.
,
with periodic streams" RFC 3432 DOI 10.17487/RFC3432
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3432>

A. Morton "Network performance measurement
<https://

, November 2002,

,

,

,

Schulzrinne, H. Casner, S. Frederick, R.
,
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

, and
V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

,

,

,

,
Friedman, T., Ed. Caceres, R., Ed.
Extended Reports (RTCP XR)" RFC 3611 DOI 10.17487/RFC3611
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3611>

, and

,

,

,

A. Clark, Ed. "RTP Control Protocol

, November 2003,

,
,
Stephan, E. "IP Performance Metrics (IPPM) Metrics Registry" BCP 108 RFC 4148
DOI 10.17487/RFC4148

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4148>

, August 2005,

,

,

,

Duﬃeld, N., Ed. Chiou, D. Claise, B. Greenberg, A. Grossglauser, M.
,
Rexford "A Framework for Packet Selection and Reporting" RFC 5474 DOI
10.17487/RFC5474

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5474>

, March 2009,

, and
,

J.

,

,

,

,

,

, and
Zseby, T. Molina, M. Duﬃeld, N. Niccolini, S.
,
,
Filtering Techniques for IP Packet Selection" RFC 5475 DOI 10.17487/RFC5475
March 2009,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5475>

F. Raspall "Sampling and

,

,

,

,

Dietz, T. Claise, B. Aitken, P. Dressler, F.
Packet Sampling Exports" RFC 5477 DOI 10.17487/RFC5477
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5477>

, and

,

,

,

,

,

G. Carle "Information Model for

, March 2009,

<https://

,

, and
Pendleton, A. Clark, A. Johnston, A.
Protocol Event Package for Voice Quality Reporting" RFC 6035 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6035

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6035>

H. Sinnreich "Session Initiation

, November 2010,

,
,

,

,

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

[RFC6248]

[RFC6991]

[RFC7012]

[RFC7014]

[RFC7594]

[RFC7679]

[RFC8912]

,

Morton, A. "RFC 4148 and the IP Performance Metrics (IPPM) Registry of Metrics
Are Obsolete" RFC 6248 DOI 10.17487/RFC6248
,
editor.org/info/rfc6248>
.

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2011,

,

Schoenwaelder, J., Ed. "Common YANG Data Types" RFC 6991 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6991

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6991>

, July 2013,

,

,

,

 and
Claise, B., Ed.
,
Export (IPFIX)" RFC 7012 DOI 10.17487/RFC7012
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7012>

,

,

B. Trammell, Ed. "Information Model for IP Flow Information

, September 2013,

<https://

,
D'Antonio, S. Zseby, T. Henke, C.
,
7014 DOI 10.17487/RFC7014
.
rfc7014>

,

, and

, September 2013,

L. Peluso "Flow Selection Techniques" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Eardley, P. Morton, A. Bagnulo, M. Burbridge, T. Aitken, P.
,
Framework for Large-Scale Measurement of Broadband Performance (LMAP)"
, September 2015,
RFC 7594 DOI 10.17487/RFC7594
.
info/rfc7594>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

A. Akhter "A

, and

,

,

,

,

,

A. Morton, Ed. "A One-Way Delay
Almes, G. Kalidindi, S. Zekauskas, M.
,
Metric for IP Performance Metrics (IPPM)" STD 81 RFC 7679 DOI 10.17487/
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7679>
RFC7679

, January 2016,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,
Morton, A. Bagnulo, M. Eardley, P.
,
Registry Entries" RFC 8912 DOI 10.17487/RFC8912
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8912>

, and

,

K. D'Souza "Initial Performance Metrics

,
, November 2021,

<https://

Acknowledgments

 and

Brian Trammell

, IPPM co-chairs during the development of this

Bill Cerveny
Thanks to
memo, for leading several brainstorming sessions on this topic. Thanks to
Juergen Schoenwaelder
for suggestions on metric naming. Thanks to
Amanda Baber
accessibility of the complete template via URL. Thanks to
suggestions to generalize the procedures. Thanks to all of the Area Directors for their reviews.

 for answering questions related to the presentation of the Registry and
 for his review and

Andrew McGregor
 for her early IANA review, and to

 for the detailed feedback and suggestions. Thanks to

Michelle Cotton

Barbara Stark

Roni Even

 and

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8911

Registry for Performance Metrics

November 2021

Authors' Addresses

Marcelo Bagnulo
Universidad Carlos III de Madrid
Av. Universidad 30
28911 Leganes Madrid
Spain
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 34 91 6249500
 marcelo@it.uc3m.es
 http://www.it.uc3m.es

Benoit Claise
Huawei
Email:

 benoit.claise@huawei.com

Philip Eardley
BT
Adastral Park, Martlesham Heath
Ipswich
United Kingdom
Email:

 philip.eardley@bt.com

Al Morton
AT&T Labs
200 Laurel Avenue South
Middletown NJ 07748
,
United States of America
Email:

 acmorton@att.com

Aamer Akhter
Consultant
118 Timber Hitch
Cary NC
,
United States of America
Email:

 aakhter@gmail.com

Bagnulo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

