Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8912
Standards Track
November 2021
2070-1721
A. Morton
AT&T Labs

M. Bagnulo
UC3M

P. Eardley
BT

K. D'Souza
AT&T Labs

RFC 8912
Initial Performance Metrics Registry Entries

Abstract

This memo deﬁnes the set of initial entries for the IANA Registry of Performance Metrics. The set
includes UDP Round-Trip Latency and Loss, Packet Delay Variation, DNS Response Latency and
Loss, UDP Poisson One-Way Delay and Loss, UDP Periodic One-Way Delay and Loss, ICMP Round-
Trip Latency and Loss, and TCP Round-Trip Delay and Loss.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8912
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Scope

3.  Registry Categories and Columns

4.  UDP Round-Trip Latency and Loss Registry Entries

4.1.  Summary

4.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

4.1.2.  Name

4.1.3.  URI

4.1.4.  Description

4.1.5.  Change Controller

4.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

4.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

4.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

4.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

4.3.  Method of Measurement

4.3.1.  Reference Methods

4.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

4.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

4.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

4.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

4.3.6.  Roles

4.4.  Output

4.4.1.  Type

4.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

4.4.3.  Metric Units

4.4.4.  Calibration

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

4.5.  Administrative Items

4.5.1.  Status

4.5.2.  Requester

4.5.3.  Revision

4.5.4.  Revision Date

4.6.  Comments and Remarks

5.  Packet Delay Variation Registry Entry

5.1.  Summary

5.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

5.1.2.  Name

5.1.3.  URI

5.1.4.  Description

5.1.5.  Change Controller

5.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

5.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

5.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

5.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

5.3.  Method of Measurement

5.3.1.  Reference Methods

5.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

5.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

5.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

5.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

5.3.6.  Roles

5.4.  Output

5.4.1.  Type

5.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

5.4.3.  Metric Units

5.4.4.  Calibration

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

5.5.  Administrative Items

5.5.1.  Status

5.5.2.  Requester

5.5.3.  Revision

5.5.4.  Revision Date

5.6.  Comments and Remarks

6.  DNS Response Latency and Loss Registry Entries

6.1.  Summary

6.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

6.1.2.  Name

6.1.3.  URI

6.1.4.  Description

6.1.5.  Change Controller

6.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

6.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

6.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

6.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

6.3.  Method of Measurement

6.3.1.  Reference Methods

6.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

6.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

6.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

6.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

6.3.6.  Roles

6.4.  Output

6.4.1.  Type

6.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

6.4.3.  Metric Units

6.4.4.  Calibration

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

6.5.  Administrative Items

6.5.1.  Status

6.5.2.  Requester

6.5.3.  Revision

6.5.4.  Revision Date

6.6.  Comments and Remarks

7.  UDP Poisson One-Way Delay and Loss Registry Entries

7.1.  Summary

7.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

7.1.2.  Name

7.1.3.  URI

7.1.4.  Description

7.1.5.  Change Controller

7.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

7.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

7.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

7.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

7.3.  Method of Measurement

7.3.1.  Reference Methods

7.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

7.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

7.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

7.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

7.3.6.  Roles

7.4.  Output

7.4.1.  Type

7.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

7.4.3.  Metric Units

7.4.4.  Calibration

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

7.5.  Administrative Items

7.5.1.  Status

7.5.2.  Requester

7.5.3.  Revision

7.5.4.  Revision Date

7.6.  Comments and Remarks

8.  UDP Periodic One-Way Delay and Loss Registry Entries

8.1.  Summary

8.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

8.1.2.  Name

8.1.3.  URI

8.1.4.  Description

8.1.5.  Change Controller

8.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

8.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

8.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

8.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

8.3.  Method of Measurement

8.3.1.  Reference Methods

8.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

8.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

8.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

8.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

8.3.6.  Roles

8.4.  Output

8.4.1.  Type

8.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

8.4.3.  Metric Units

8.4.4.  Calibration

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

8.5.  Administrative Items

8.5.1.  Status

8.5.2.  Requester

8.5.3.  Revision

8.5.4.  Revision Date

8.6.  Comments and Remarks

9.  ICMP Round-Trip Latency and Loss Registry Entries

9.1.  Summary

9.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

9.1.2.  Name

9.1.3.  URI

9.1.4.  Description

9.1.5.  Change Controller

9.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

9.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

9.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

9.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

9.3.  Method of Measurement

9.3.1.  Reference Methods

9.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

9.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

9.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

9.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

9.3.6.  Roles

9.4.  Output

9.4.1.  Type

9.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

9.4.3.  Metric Units

9.4.4.  Calibration

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

9.5.  Administrative Items

9.5.1.  Status

9.5.2.  Requester

9.5.3.  Revision

9.5.4.  Revision Date

9.6.  Comments and Remarks

10. TCP Round-Trip Delay and Loss Registry Entries

10.1.  Summary

10.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

10.1.2.  Name

10.1.3.  URI

10.1.4.  Description

10.1.5.  Change Controller

10.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

10.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

10.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

10.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

10.3.  Method of Measurement

10.3.1.  Reference Methods

10.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

10.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

10.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

10.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

10.3.6.  Roles

10.4.  Output

10.4.1.  Type

10.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

10.4.3.  Metric Units

10.4.4.  Calibration

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

10.5.  Administrative Items

10.5.1.  Status

10.5.2.  Requester

10.5.3.  Revision

10.5.4.  Revision Date

10.6.  Comments and Remarks

11. Security Considerations

12. IANA Considerations

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This memo deﬁnes an initial set of entries for the Performance Metrics Registry. It uses terms and
deﬁnitions from the IP Performance Metrics (IPPM) literature, primarily

[RFC2330]

.

[RFC7679]

 for an example of the traditional IPPM template, based to a large extent

Although there are several standard templates for organizing speciﬁcations of Performance
Metrics (see
on the Benchmarking Methodology Working Group's traditional template in
[RFC6390]
the columns of an IETF-wide Registry of metrics. While examining aspects of metric
speciﬁcations that need to be registered, it became clear that none of the existing metric
templates fully satisfy the particular needs of a Registry.

, and see
 for a similar template), none of these templates were intended to become the basis for

[RFC1242]

Therefore,
[RFC8911]
of one or more entries in the Performance Metrics Registry:

 deﬁnes the overall format for a Performance Metrics Registry.
[RFC8911]
 also gives guidelines for those requesting registration of a Metric -- that is, the creation

Section 5 of

In essence, there needs to be evidence that (1) a candidate Registered Performance
Metric has signiﬁcant industry interest or has seen deployment and (2) there is
agreement that the candidate Registered Performance Metric serves its intended
purpose.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

[RFC8911]
The process deﬁned in
the Speciﬁcation Required policy

 also requires that new entries be administered by IANA through
[RFC8126]
, which will ensure that the metrics are tightly deﬁned.

1.1.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  Scope

This document deﬁnes a set of initial Performance Metrics Registry Entries. Most are Active
Performance Metrics, which are based on RFCs prepared in the IPPM Working Group of the IETF,
 and its updates.
according to their framework

[RFC2330]

3.  Registry Categories and Columns

This memo uses the terminology deﬁned in

[RFC8911]

.

This section provides the categories and columns of the Registry, for easy reference. An entry
(row) therefore gives a complete description of a Registered Metric.

Registry Categories and Columns are shown below in this format:

    Category
    ------------------...
    Column |  Column |...

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Summary
---------------------------------------------------------------
Identifier | Name | URI | Desc. | Reference | Change     | Ver |
           |      |     |       |           | Controller |

Metric Definition
-----------------------------------------
Reference Definition | Fixed Parameters |

Method of Measurement
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Reference | Packet     | Traffic | Sampling     | Runtime    | Role |
Method    | Stream     | Filter  | Distribution | Parameters |      |
          | Generation |
Output
-----------------------------------------
Type | Reference  | Units | Calibration |
     | Definition |       |             |

Administrative Information
-------------------------------------
Status |Requester | Rev | Rev. Date |

Comments and Remarks
--------------------

4.  UDP Round-Trip Latency and Loss Registry Entries

This section speciﬁes an initial Registry Entry for UDP Round-Trip Latency and another entry for
the UDP Round-Trip Loss Ratio.

Note: Each Registry Entry only produces a "raw" output or a statistical summary. To describe
both "raw" and one or more statistics eﬃciently, the Identiﬁer, Name, and Output categories
can be split, and a single section can specify two or more closely related metrics. For example,
this section speciﬁes two Registry Entries with many common columns. See Section 7 for an
example specifying multiple Registry Entries with many common columns.

All column entries besides the ID, Name, Description, and Output Reference Method categories
are the same; thus, this section deﬁnes two closely related Registry Entries. As a result, IANA has
also assigned a corresponding URL to each of the two Named Metrics.

4.1.  Summary

This category includes multiple indexes to the Registry Entries: the element ID and Metric Name.

4.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

IANA has allocated the numeric Identiﬁers 1 and 2 for the two Named Metric Entries in Section 4.
See Section 4.1.2 for mapping to Names.

4.1.2.  Name

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

1:

2:

RTDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Periodic_RFC8912sec4_Seconds_95Percentile

RTLoss_Active_IP-UDP-Periodic_RFC8912sec4_Percent_LossRatio

4.1.3.  URI

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RTDelay_Active_IP-UDP-

URL:
Periodic_RFC8912sec4_Seconds_95Percentile

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RTLoss_Active_IP-UDP-

URL:
Periodic_RFC8912sec4_Percent_LossRatio

4.1.4.  Description

RTDelay:

This metric assesses the delay of a stream of packets exchanged between two hosts

(which are the two measurement points). The output is the round-trip delay for all successfully
exchanged packets expressed as the 95th percentile of their conditional delay distribution.

RTLoss:

This metric assesses the loss ratio of a stream of packets exchanged between two hosts

(which are the two measurement points). The output is the round-trip loss ratio for all
transmitted packets expressed as a percentage.

4.1.5.  Change Controller

IETF

4.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

1.0

4.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

This category includes columns to prompt the entry of all necessary details related to the metric
deﬁnition, including the RFC reference and values of input factors, called "Fixed Parameters".

4.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

For delay:

Almes, G., Kalidindi, S., and M. Zekauskas, "A Round-trip Delay Metric for IPPM", RFC 2681, DOI
10.17487/RFC2681, September 1999, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2681>.

[RFC2681]

Section 2.4 of [RFC2681]
trip delay metric.
a multi-singleton sample. Note that terms such as "singleton" and "sample" are deﬁned in
Section 11 of [RFC2330]

 provides the reference deﬁnition of the singleton (single value) round-
 provides the reference deﬁnition expanded to cover

Section 3.4 of [RFC2681]

.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Note that although the deﬁnition of round-trip delay between the Source (Src) and the
Destination (Dst) as provided in
 is directionally ambiguous in the text,
this metric tightens the deﬁnition further to recognize that the host in the Src Role will send the
ﬁrst packet to the host in the Dst Role and will ultimately receive the corresponding return
packet from the Dst (when neither is lost).

Section 2.4 of [RFC2681]

Finally, note that the variable "dT" is used in
 to refer to the value of round-trip delay
in metric deﬁnitions and methods. The variable "dT" has been reused in other IPPM literature
to refer to diﬀerent quantities and cannot be used as a global variable name.

[RFC2681]

For loss:

Morton, A., "Round-Trip Packet Loss Metrics", RFC 6673, DOI 10.17487/RFC6673, August 2012,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6673>.

[RFC6673]

Both Delay and Loss metrics employ a maximum waiting time for received packets, so the count
of lost packets to total packets sent is the basis for the loss ratio calculation as per
Section 6.1 of
[RFC6673]

.

4.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

Type-P as deﬁned in

Section 13 of [RFC2330]

:

IPv4 header values:

Set to 0
Set to 255

DSCP:
TTL:
Protocol:

Set to 17 (UDP)

IPv6 header values:

Set to 255

Set to 0

DSCP:
Hop Count:
Next Header:
Flow Label:
Extension Headers:

Set to 0

None

Set to 17 (UDP)

UDP header values:

The checksum

MUST

 be calculated and the non-zero checksum included in the

Checksum:
header

UDP Payload:

Total of 100 bytes

Other measurement Parameters:

Tmax:

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

A loss threshold waiting time with value 3.0, expressed in units of seconds, as a positive
value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
) and with a
resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms), with lossless conversion to/from the 32-bit NTP
timestamp as per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

.

4.3.  Method of Measurement

This category includes columns for references to relevant sections of the RFC(s) and any
supplemental information needed to ensure an unambiguous method for implementations.

4.3.1.  Reference Methods

The methodology for this metric (equivalent to Type-P-Round-trip- Delay and Type-P-Round-trip-
Section 3.6 of
Delay-Poisson-Stream) is deﬁned as in
[RFC2681]
However, the Periodic stream will be generated according to

Section 2.6 of [RFC2681]
 (for samples) using the Type-P and Tmax deﬁned in the Fixed Parameters column.

 (for singletons) and

[RFC3432]

.

The reference method distinguishes between long-delayed packets and lost packets by
implementing a maximum waiting time for packet arrival. Tmax is the waiting time used as the
threshold to declare a packet lost. Lost packets
 be designated as having undeﬁned delay
and counted for the RTLoss metric

[RFC6673]

SHALL

.

The calculations on the delay (RTT)
conditioned on successful packet arrival within Tmax. Also, when all packet delays are stored, the
process that calculates the RTT value
calculations. See
undeﬁned values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude

 enforce the Tmax threshold on stored values before

 be performed on the conditional distribution,

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

SHALL

MUST

The reference method requires some way to distinguish between diﬀerent packets in a stream to
establish correspondence between sending times and receiving times for each successfully
arriving packet. Sequence numbers or other send-order identiﬁcation
MUST
or included with each packet to disambiguate packet reordering if it occurs.

 be retained at the Src

If a standard measurement protocol is employed, then the measurement process will determine
the sequence numbers or timestamps applied to test packets after the Fixed and Runtime
Parameters are passed to that process. The chosen measurement protocol will dictate the format
of sequence numbers and timestamps, if they are conveyed in the packet payload.

Section 4.4 of [RFC6673]

Refer to
packet back to the Src as quickly as possible" in
presents additional requirements that
metric.

MUST

 for an expanded discussion of the instruction to "send a Type-P

.
Section 2.6 of [RFC2681] Section 8 of [RFC6673]

 be included in the Method of Measurement for this

4.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

This section provides details regarding packet traﬃc, which is used as the basis for measurement.
In IPPM Metrics, this is called the "stream"; this stream can easily be described by providing the
list of stream Parameters.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Section 3 of [RFC3432]
Parameters.

 prescribes the method for generating Periodic streams using associated

incT:

The nominal duration of the inter-packet interval, ﬁrst bit to ﬁrst bit, with value 0.0200,
expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

) and with a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms).

dT:

The duration of the interval for allowed sample start times, with value 1.0, expressed in units

of seconds, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
[RFC6020]

) and with a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms).

Section 9.3 of

Note: An initiation process with a number of control exchanges resulting in unpredictable
start times (within a time interval) may be suﬃcient to avoid synchronization of periodic
streams and is a valid replacement for selecting a start time at random from a ﬁxed interval.

The T0 Parameter will be reported as a measured Parameter. Parameters incT and dT are Fixed
Parameters.

4.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

N/A

4.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

N/A

4.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

Runtime Parameters are input factors that must be determined, conﬁgured into the
measurement system, and reported with the results for the context to be complete.

Src:

The IP address of the host in the Src Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

Dst:

The IP address of the host in the Dst Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

T0:

A time, the start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
interpreted as the duration of the measurement interval. The start time is controlled through
other means.

. When T0 is "all-zeros", a start time is unspeciﬁed and Tf is to be

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

Tf:

A time, the end of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
interpreted as the duration of the measurement interval.

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

. When T0 is "all-zeros", an ending time and date is ignored and Tf is

Section 5.6 of
). The UTC Time Zone is required

4.3.6.  Roles

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Src:

Launches each packet and waits for return transmissions from the Dst.

Dst:

Waits for each packet from the Src and sends a return packet to the Src.

4.4.  Output

This category speciﬁes all details of the output of measurements using the metric.

4.4.1.  Type

Percentile: For the conditional distribution of all packets with a valid value of round-trip delay
(undeﬁned delays are excluded), this is a single value corresponding to the 95th percentile, as
follows:

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

The percentile = 95, meaning that the reported delay, "95Percentile", is the smallest value of round-
trip delay for which the Empirical Distribution Function, EDF(95Percentile), is greater than or
equal to 95% of the singleton round-trip delay values in the conditional distribution. See
11.3 of [RFC2330]

 for the deﬁnition of the percentile statistic using the EDF.

Section

For LossRatio, the count of lost packets to total packets sent is the basis for the loss ratio
calculation as per

Section 6.1 of [RFC6673]

.

4.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

For all outputs:

T0:

The start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

[RFC3339]
by

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

.

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Tf:

The end of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

[RFC3339]
by

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

.

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

). The UTC Time Zone is required

TotalPkts:

The count of packets sent by the Src to the Dst during the measurement interval.

95Percentile:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of

type decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns).

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

) with a resolution of

Percent_LossRatio:

packets times 100%, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
9.3 of [RFC6020]

) with a resolution of 0.0000000001.

The numeric value of the result is expressed in units of lost packets to total
Section

4.4.3.  Metric Units

The 95th percentile of round-trip delay is expressed in seconds.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

The round-trip loss ratio is expressed as a percentage of lost packets to total packets sent.

4.4.4.  Calibration

 provides a means to quantify the systematic and random errors of a

Section 3.7.3 of [RFC7679]
time measurement. Calibration in-situ could be enabled with an internal loopback at the Source
host that includes as much of the measurement system as possible, performs address
manipulation as needed, and provides some form of isolation (e.g., deterministic delay) to avoid
send-receive interface contention. Some portion of the random and systematic error can be
characterized in this way.

When a measurement controller requests a calibration measurement, the loopback is applied
and the result is output in the same format as a normal measurement, with an additional
indication that it is a calibration result.

Both internal loopback calibration and clock synchronization can be used to estimate the
available accuracy of the Output Metric Units. For example, repeated loopback delay
measurements will reveal the portion of the output result resolution that is the result of system
noise and is thus inaccurate.

4.5.  Administrative Items

4.5.1.  Status

Current

4.5.2.  Requester

RFC 8912

4.5.3.  Revision

1.0

4.5.4.  Revision Date

2021-11-17

4.6.  Comments and Remarks

None

5.  Packet Delay Variation Registry Entry

This section gives an initial Registry Entry for a Packet Delay Variation (PDV) metric.

5.1.  Summary

This category includes multiple indexes to the Registry Entry: the element ID and Metric Name.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

5.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

IANA has allocated the numeric Identiﬁer 3 for the Named Metric Entry in Section 5. See Section
5.1.2 for mapping to Name.

5.1.2.  Name

3:

OWPDV_Active_IP-UDP-Periodic_RFC8912sec5_Seconds_95Percentile

5.1.3.  URI

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWPDV_Active_IP-UDP-

URL:
Periodic_RFC8912sec5_Seconds_95Percentile

5.1.4.  Description

This metric assesses packet delay variation with respect to the minimum delay observed on the
periodic stream. The output is expressed as the 95th percentile of the one-way packet delay
variation distribution.

5.1.5.  Change Controller

IETF

5.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

1.0

5.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

This category includes columns to prompt the entry of all necessary details related to the metric
deﬁnition, including the RFC reference and values of input factors, called "Fixed Parameters".

5.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

Paxson, V., Almes, G., Mahdavi, J., and M. Mathis, "Framework for IP Performance Metrics", RFC
2330, DOI 10.17487/RFC2330, May 1998, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2330>.

[RFC2330]

Demichelis, C. and P. Chimento, "IP Packet Delay Variation Metric for IP Performance Metrics
(IPPM)", RFC 3393, DOI 10.17487/RFC3393, November 2002, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc3393>.

[RFC3393]

Morton, A. and B. Claise, "Packet Delay Variation Applicability Statement", RFC 5481, DOI 10.17487/
RFC5481, March 2009, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5481>.

[RFC5481]

Mills, D., Martin, J., Ed., Burbank, J., and W. Kasch, "Network Time Protocol Version 4: Protocol and
Algorithms Speciﬁcation", RFC 5905, DOI 10.17487/RFC5905, June 2010, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc5905>.

[RFC5905]

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

See Sections 2.4 and 3.4 of
the variable name "ddT" (applicable to all forms of delay variation). However, this Metric Entry
speciﬁes the PDV form deﬁned in
, where the singleton PDV for packet i is
referred to by the variable name "PDV(i)".

. The measured singleton delay diﬀerences are referred to by

Section 4.2 of [RFC5481]

[RFC3393]

5.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

IPv4 header values:

Set to 0
Set to 255

DSCP:
TTL:
Protocol:

Set to 17 (UDP)

IPv6 header values:

Set to 255

Set to 0

DSCP:
Hop Count:
Next Header:
Flow Label:
Extension Headers:

Set to 0

None

Set to 17 (UDP)

UDP header values:

The checksum

MUST

 be calculated and the non-zero checksum included in the

Checksum:
header

UDP Payload:

Total of 200 bytes

Other measurement Parameters:

Tmax:

A loss threshold waiting time with value 3.0, expressed in units of seconds, as a
Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
with a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms), with lossless conversion to/from the 32-bit NTP
timestamp as per

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) and

.

F:

A selection function unambiguously deﬁning the packets from the stream selected for the
metric. See

Section 4.2 of [RFC5481]

 for the PDV form.

See the Packet Stream Generation section for two additional Fixed Parameters.

5.3.  Method of Measurement

This category includes columns for references to relevant sections of the RFC(s) and any
supplemental information needed to ensure an unambiguous method for implementations.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

5.3.1.  Reference Methods

See Sections 2.6 and 3.6 of
requires implementation of the PDV form deﬁned in
measurement considerations in

Section 8 of [RFC5481]

[RFC3393]

.

 for general singleton element calculations. This Metric Entry

Section 4.2 of [RFC5481]

. Also see

The reference method distinguishes between long-delayed packets and lost packets by
implementing a maximum waiting time for packet arrival. Tmax is the waiting time used as the
 be designated as having undeﬁned delay.
threshold to declare a packet lost. Lost packets

SHALL

SHALL

The calculations on the one-way delay
conditioned on successful packet arrival within Tmax. Also, when all packet delays are stored, the
process that calculates the one-way delay value
values before calculations. See
to exclude undeﬁned values of delay, and see
analysis choice.

 be performed on the conditional distribution,

 for details on the conditional distribution

 enforce the Tmax threshold on stored

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

 for background on this

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

MUST

The reference method requires some way to distinguish between diﬀerent packets in a stream to
establish correspondence between sending times and receiving times for each successfully
arriving packet. Sequence numbers or other send-order identiﬁcation
MUST
or included with each packet to disambiguate packet reordering if it occurs.

 be retained at the Src

If a standard measurement protocol is employed, then the measurement process will determine
the sequence numbers or timestamps applied to test packets after the Fixed and Runtime
Parameters are passed to that process. The chosen measurement protocol will dictate the format
of sequence numbers and timestamps, if they are conveyed in the packet payload.

5.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

This section provides details regarding packet traﬃc, which is used as the basis for measurement.
In IPPM Metrics, this is called the "stream"; this stream can easily be described by providing the
list of stream Parameters.

Section 3 of [RFC3432]
Parameters.

 prescribes the method for generating Periodic streams using associated

incT:

The nominal duration of the inter-packet interval, ﬁrst bit to ﬁrst bit, with value 0.0200,
expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

) and with a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms).

dT:

The duration of the interval for allowed sample start times, with value 1.0, expressed in units

of seconds, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
[RFC6020]

) and with a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms).

Section 9.3 of

Note: An initiation process with a number of control exchanges resulting in unpredictable
start times (within a time interval) may be suﬃcient to avoid synchronization of periodic
streams and is a valid replacement for selecting a start time at random from a ﬁxed interval.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

The T0 Parameter will be reported as a measured Parameter. Parameters incT and dT are Fixed
Parameters.

5.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

N/A

5.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

N/A

5.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

Src:

The IP address of the host in the Src Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

Dst:

The IP address of the host in the Dst Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

T0:

A time, the start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
interpreted as the duration of the measurement interval. The start time is controlled through
other means.

. When T0 is "all-zeros", a start time is unspeciﬁed and Tf is to be

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

Tf:

A time, the end of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
interpreted as the duration of the measurement interval.

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

. When T0 is "all-zeros", an ending time and date is ignored and Tf is

Section 5.6 of
). The UTC Time Zone is required

5.3.6.  Roles

Src:

Launches each packet and waits for return transmissions from the Dst.

Dst:

Waits for each packet from the Src and sends a return packet to the Src (when required by

the test protocol).

5.4.  Output

This category speciﬁes all details of the output of measurements using the metric.

5.4.1.  Type

Percentile: For the conditional distribution of all packets with a valid value of one-way delay
(undeﬁned delays are excluded), this is a single value corresponding to the 95th percentile, as
follows:

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

The percentile = 95, meaning that the reported delay, "95Percentile", is the smallest value of one-
way PDV for which the Empirical Distribution Function, EDF(95Percentile), is greater than or
equal to 95% of the singleton one-way PDV values in the conditional distribution. See
of [RFC2330]

 for the deﬁnition of the percentile statistic using the EDF.

Section 11.3

5.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

T0:

The start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

[RFC3339]
by

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

.

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Tf:

The end of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

[RFC3339]
by

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

.

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

). The UTC Time Zone is required

95Percentile:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of

type decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

5.4.3.  Metric Units

The 95th percentile of one-way PDV is expressed in seconds.

5.4.4.  Calibration

 provides a means to quantify the systematic and random errors of a

Section 3.7.3 of [RFC7679]
time measurement. Calibration in-situ could be enabled with an internal loopback that includes
as much of the measurement system as possible, performs address manipulation as needed, and
provides some form of isolation (e.g., deterministic delay) to avoid send-receive interface
contention. Some portion of the random and systematic error can be characterized in this way.

For one-way delay measurements, the error calibration must include an assessment of the
internal clock synchronization with its external reference (this internal clock is supplying
timestamps for measurement). In practice, the time oﬀsets
and Destination are needed to estimate the systematic error due to imperfect clock
synchronization (the time oﬀsets are smoothed; thus, the random variation is not usually
represented in the results).

[RFC5905]

 of clocks at both the Source

time_oﬀset:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a signed value of

type decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

When a measurement controller requests a calibration measurement, the loopback is applied
and the result is output in the same format as a normal measurement, with an additional
indication that it is a calibration result. In any measurement, the measurement function
report its current estimate of the time oﬀset
synchronization.

 as an indicator of the degree of

[RFC5905]

SHOULD

Both internal loopback calibration and clock synchronization can be used to estimate the
available accuracy of the Output Metric Units. For example, repeated loopback delay
measurements will reveal the portion of the output result resolution that is the result of system
noise and is thus inaccurate.

5.5.  Administrative Items

5.5.1.  Status

Current

5.5.2.  Requester

RFC 8912

5.5.3.  Revision

1.0

5.5.4.  Revision Date

2021-11-17

5.6.  Comments and Remarks

Lost packets represent a challenge for delay variation metrics. See
the delay variation applicability statement
PDV and an alternate metric, IPDV (Inter-Packet Delay Variation).

[RFC5481]

 and
 for extensive analysis and comparison of

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

6.  DNS Response Latency and Loss Registry Entries

This section gives initial Registry Entries for DNS Response Latency and Loss from a network
user's perspective, for a speciﬁc named resource. The metric can be measured repeatedly for
diﬀerent named resources.
 deﬁnes a round-trip delay metric. We build on that metric
by specifying several of the input Parameters to precisely deﬁne two metrics for measuring DNS
latency and loss.

[RFC2681]

All column entries besides the ID, Name, Description, and Output Reference Method categories
are the same; thus, this section deﬁnes two closely related Registry Entries. As a result, IANA has
assigned corresponding URLs to each of the two Named Metrics.

6.1.  Summary

This category includes multiple indexes to the Registry Entries: the element ID and Metric Name.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

6.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

IANA has allocated the numeric Identiﬁers 4 and 5 for the two Named Metric Entries in Section 6.
See Section 6.1.2 for mapping to Names.

6.1.2.  Name

4:

5:

RTDNS_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson_RFC8912sec6_Seconds_Raw

RLDNS_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson_RFC8912sec6_Logical_Raw

6.1.3.  URI

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RTDNS_Active_IP-UDP-

URL:
Poisson_RFC8912sec6_Seconds_Raw

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RLDNS_Active_IP-UDP-

URL:
Poisson_RFC8912sec6_Logical_Raw

6.1.4.  Description

This is a metric for DNS Response performance from a network user's perspective, for a speciﬁc
named resource. The metric can be measured repeatedly using diﬀerent resource names.

RTDNS:

This metric assesses the response time, the interval from the query transmission to the

response.

RLDNS:

This metric indicates that the response was deemed lost. In other words, the response

time exceeded the maximum waiting time.

6.1.5.  Change Controller

IETF

6.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

1.0

6.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

This category includes columns to prompt the entry of all necessary details related to the metric
deﬁnition, including the RFC reference and values of input factors, called "Fixed Parameters".

6.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

For Delay:

Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation", STD 13, RFC 1035, DOI
10.17487/RFC1035, November 1987, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1035> (and updates).
[RFC1035]

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Almes, G., Kalidindi, S., and M. Zekauskas, "A Round-trip Delay Metric for IPPM", RFC 2681, DOI
10.17487/RFC2681, September 1999, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2681>.

[RFC2681]

Section 2.4 of [RFC2681]
trip delay metric.
a multi-singleton sample. Note that terms such as "singleton" and "sample" are deﬁned in
Section 11 of [RFC2330]

 provides the reference deﬁnition of the singleton (single value) round-
 provides the reference deﬁnition expanded to cover

Section 3.4 of [RFC2681]

.

[RFC1035]
. The Local
For DNS Response Latency, the entities in
Host with its User Program and Resolver take the Role of "Src", and the Foreign Name Server
takes the Role of "Dst".

 must be mapped to

[RFC2681]

Note that although the deﬁnition of round-trip delay between the Source (Src) and the
Destination (Dst) at T as provided in
text, this metric tightens the deﬁnition further to recognize that the host in the Src Role will
send the ﬁrst packet to the host in the Dst Role and will ultimately receive the corresponding
return packet from the Dst (when neither is lost).

 is directionally ambiguous in the

Section 2.4 of [RFC2681]

For Loss:

Morton, A., "Round-Trip Packet Loss Metrics", RFC 6673, DOI 10.17487/RFC6673, August 2012,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6673>.

[RFC6673]

For DNS Response Loss, the entities in
with its User Program and Resolver take the Role of "Src", and the Foreign Name Server takes
the Role of "Dst".

 must be mapped to

. The Local Host

[RFC6673]

[RFC1035]

Both response time and Loss metrics employ a maximum waiting time for received responses,
so the count of lost packets to total packets sent is the basis for the loss determination as per
Section 4.3 of [RFC6673]

.

6.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

Type-P as deﬁned in

Section 13 of [RFC2330]

:

IPv4 header values:

Set to 0
Set to 255

DSCP:
TTL:
Protocol:

Set to 17 (UDP)

IPv6 header values:

Set to 255

Set to 0

DSCP:
Hop Count:
Next Header:
Flow Label:
Extension Headers:

Set to 0

None

Set to 17 (UDP)

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

UDP header values:

53
Source port:
Destination port:
Checksum:
header

53
The checksum

MUST

 be calculated and the non-zero checksum included in the

Payload:

The payload contains a DNS message as deﬁned in

[RFC1035]

 with the following values:

The DNS header section contains:

Set to 0 (Query)

Set to 0 (standard query)

Not set
Not set
Set to 1 (recursion desired)
Not set

Identiﬁcation (see the Runtime column)
QR:
OPCODE:
AA:
TC:
RD:
RA:
RCODE:
QDCOUNT:
ANCOUNT:
NSCOUNT:
ARCOUNT:

Set to 1 (only one entry)
Not set
Not set
Not set

Not set

The Question section contains:

QNAME:

The Fully Qualiﬁed Domain Name (FQDN) provided as input for the test; see

the Runtime column

QTYPE:

The query type provided as input for the test; see the Runtime column

QCLASS:

Set to 1 for IN

The other sections do not contain any Resource Records (RRs).

Other measurement Parameters:

Tmax:

A loss threshold waiting time (and to help disambiguate queries). The value is 5.0,
expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4
) and with a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms), with lossless
(see
conversion to/from the 32-bit NTP timestamp as per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

.

Observation:

Reply packets will contain a DNS Response and may contain RRs.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

6.3.  Method of Measurement

This category includes columns for references to relevant sections of the RFC(s) and any
supplemental information needed to ensure an unambiguous method for implementations.

6.3.1.  Reference Methods

The methodology for this metric (equivalent to Type-P-Round-trip-Delay-Poisson-Stream) is
deﬁned as in
using the Type-P and Timeout deﬁned in the Fixed Parameters column.

Section 3.6 of [RFC2681]

Section 2.6 of [RFC2681]

 (for singletons) and

 (for samples)

The reference method distinguishes between long-delayed packets and lost packets by
implementing a maximum waiting time for packet arrival. Tmax is the waiting time used as the
threshold to declare a response packet lost. Lost packets
undeﬁned delay and counted for the RLDNS metric.

 be designated as having

SHALL

The calculations on the delay (RTT)
conditioned on successful packet arrival within Tmax. Also, when all packet delays are stored, the
process that calculates the RTT value
calculations. See
undeﬁned values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude

 enforce the Tmax threshold on stored values before

 be performed on the conditional distribution,

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

SHALL

MUST

The reference method requires some way to distinguish between diﬀerent packets in a stream to
establish correspondence between sending times and receiving times for each successfully
arriving reply.

DNS messages bearing queries provide for random ID Numbers in the Identiﬁcation header ﬁeld,
so more than one query may be launched while a previous request is outstanding when the ID
Number is used. Therefore, the ID Number
 be retained at the Src and included with each
response packet to disambiguate packet reordering if it occurs.

MUST

If a DNS Response does not arrive within Tmax, the response time RTDNS is undeﬁned, and
RLDNS = 1. The Message ID
otherwise identical.

 be used to disambiguate the successive queries that are

SHALL

Since the ID Number ﬁeld is only 16 bits in length, it places a limit on the number of simultaneous
outstanding DNS queries during a stress test from a single Src address.

Section 4.4 of [RFC6673]

 for an expanded discussion of the instruction to "send a Type-P

Refer to
packet back to the Src as quickly as possible" in
is expected to perform all required functions to prepare and send a response, so the response
time will include processing time and network delay.
requirements that

 be included in the Method of Measurement for this metric.

Section 2.6 of [RFC2681]

Section 8 of [RFC6673]

 presents additional

. However, the DNS server

SHALL

In addition to operations described in
and prepare the query response information for subsequent reporting as a measured result,
along with the round-trip delay.

 parse the DNS headers of the reply

[RFC2681]

, the Src

MUST

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

6.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

This section provides details regarding packet traﬃc, which is used as the basis for measurement.
In IPPM Metrics, this is called the "stream"; this stream can easily be described by providing the
list of stream Parameters.

Section 11.1.3 of [RFC2330]
reciprocal of lambda is the average packet spacing; thus, the Runtime Parameter is
Reciprocal_lambda = 1/lambda, in seconds.

 provides three methods to generate Poisson sampling intervals. The

SHALL

 be used. Where given a start time (Runtime Parameter), the subsequent send

Method 3
times are all computed prior to measurement by computing the pseudorandom distribution of
inter-packet send times (truncating the distribution as speciﬁed in the Parameter Trunc), and the
Src sends each packet at the computed times.

Note that Trunc is the upper limit on inter-packet times in the Poisson distribution. A random
value greater than Trunc is set equal to Trunc instead.

6.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

N/A

6.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

N/A

6.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

Runtime Parameters are input factors that must be determined, conﬁgured into the
measurement system, and reported with the results for the context to be complete.

Src:

The IP address of the host in the Src Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

Dst:

The IP address of the host in the Dst Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

T0:

A time, the start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
interpreted as the duration of the measurement interval. The start time is controlled through
other means.

. When T0 is "all-zeros", a start time is unspeciﬁed and Tf is to be

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

Tf:

A time, the end of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
interpreted as the duration of the measurement interval.

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

. When T0 is "all-zeros", an ending time and date is ignored and Tf is

Section 5.6 of
). The UTC Time Zone is required

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Reciprocal_lambda:

Average packet interval for Poisson streams, expressed in units of seconds,
) with

as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms), and with lossless conversion to/from the 32-bit NTP
timestamp as per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

.

Trunc:

Upper limit on Poisson distribution, expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of
) with a resolution of 0.0001
Section

type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
seconds (0.1 ms), and with lossless conversion to/from the 32-bit NTP timestamp as per
6 of [RFC5905]

 (values above this limit will be clipped and set to the limit value).

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

ID:

The 16-bit Identiﬁer assigned by the program that generates the query. The ID value must

vary in successive queries (a list of IDs is needed); see
. This Identiﬁer
is copied into the corresponding reply and can be used by the requester (Src) to match replies
with any outstanding queries.

Section 4.1.1 of [RFC1035]

QNAME:

The domain name of the query, formatted as speciﬁed in

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

.

QTYPE:

The query type, which will correspond to the IP address family of the query (decimal 1

for IPv4 or 28 for IPv6), formatted as a uint16, as per

Section 9.2 of [RFC6020]

.

6.3.6.  Roles

Src:

Launches each packet and waits for return transmissions from the Dst.

Dst:

Waits for each packet from the Src and sends a return packet to the Src.

6.4.  Output

This category speciﬁes all details of the output of measurements using the metric.

6.4.1.  Type

Raw: For each DNS query packet sent, sets of values as deﬁned in the next column, including the
status of the response, only assigning delay values to successful query-response pairs.

6.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

For all outputs:

T:

The time the DNS query was sent during the measurement interval (format "date‑time" as
). The
speciﬁed in
UTC Time Zone is required by

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

Section 5.6 of [RFC3339]

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

.

dT:

The time value of the round-trip delay to receive the DNS Response, expressed in units of

seconds, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
[RFC6020]
from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as per
response packet is not received at the Src within a waiting time of Tmax seconds.

) with a resolution of 0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/

. This value is undeﬁned when the

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

Section 9.3 of

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

RCODE:

The value of the RCODE ﬁeld in the DNS Response header, expressed as a uint64 as

speciﬁed in
replies must be analyzed separately from successful requests.

Section 9.2 of [RFC6020]

. Non-zero values convey errors in the response, and such

Logical:

The numeric value of the result is expressed as a Logical value, where 1 = Lost and 0 =

Received, as a positive value of type uint8 (represents integer values between 0 and 255,
inclusively (see
RCODE will be set to the maximum for decimal64 and uint64, respectively.

). Note that for queries with outcome 1 = Lost, dT and

Section 9.2 of [RFC6020]

6.4.3.  Metric Units

RTDNS:

Round-trip delay, dT, is expressed in seconds.

RLDNS:

The Logical value, where 1 = Lost and 0 = Received.

6.4.4.  Calibration

 provides a means to quantify the systematic and random errors of a

Section 3.7.3 of [RFC7679]
time measurement. Calibration in-situ could be enabled with an internal loopback at the Source
host that includes as much of the measurement system as possible, performs address and payload
manipulation as needed, and provides some form of isolation (e.g., deterministic delay) to avoid
send-receive interface contention. Some portion of the random and systematic error can be
characterized in this way.

When a measurement controller requests a calibration measurement, the loopback is applied
and the result is output in the same format as a normal measurement, with an additional
indication that it is a calibration result.

Both internal loopback calibration and clock synchronization can be used to estimate the
available accuracy of the Output Metric Units. For example, repeated loopback delay
measurements will reveal the portion of the output result resolution that is the result of system
noise and is thus inaccurate.

6.5.  Administrative Items

6.5.1.  Status

Current

6.5.2.  Requester

RFC 8912

6.5.3.  Revision

1.0

6.5.4.  Revision Date

2021-11-17

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

6.6.  Comments and Remarks

None

7.  UDP Poisson One-Way Delay and Loss Registry Entries

This section speciﬁes ﬁve initial Registry Entries for UDP Poisson One-Way Delay and one entry
for UDP Poisson One-Way Loss.

All column entries besides the ID, Name, Description, and Output Reference Method categories
are the same; thus, this section deﬁnes six closely related Registry Entries. As a result, IANA has
assigned corresponding URLs to each of the Named Metrics.

7.1.  Summary

This category includes multiple indexes to the Registry Entries: the element ID and Metric Name.

7.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

IANA has allocated the numeric Identiﬁers 6-11 for the six Named Metric Entries in Section 7. See
Section 7.1.2 for mapping to Names.

7.1.2.  Name

6:

7:

8:

9:

OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson-Payload250B_RFC8912sec7_Seconds_95Percentile

OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson-Payload250B_RFC8912sec7_Seconds_Mean

OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson-Payload250B_RFC8912sec7_Seconds_Min

OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson-Payload250B_RFC8912sec7_Seconds_Max

10:

OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson-Payload250B_RFC8912sec7_Seconds_StdDev

11:

OWLoss_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson-Payload250B_RFC8912sec7_Percent_LossRatio

7.1.3.  URI

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson-

URL:
Payload250B_RFC8912sec7_Seconds_95Percentile

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson-

URL:
Payload250B_RFC8912sec7_Seconds_Mean

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson-

URL:
Payload250B_RFC8912sec7_Seconds_Min

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson-

URL:
Payload250B_RFC8912sec7_Seconds_Max

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson-

URL:
Payload250B_RFC8912sec7_Seconds_StdDev

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWLoss_Active_IP-UDP-Poisson-

URL:
Payload250B_RFC8912sec7_Percent_LossRatio

7.1.4.  Description

OWDelay:

This metric assesses the delay of a stream of packets exchanged between two hosts

(or measurement points) and reports the <statistic> of one-way delay for all successfully
exchanged packets based on their conditional delay distribution.

where <statistic> is one of:

•

95Percentile

•

Mean

•

Min

•

Max

•

StdDev

OWLoss:

This metric assesses the loss ratio of a stream of packets exchanged between two hosts

(which are the two measurement points). The output is the one-way loss ratio for all
transmitted packets expressed as a percentage.

7.1.5.  Change Controller

IETF

7.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

1.0

7.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

This category includes columns to prompt the entry of all necessary details related to the metric
deﬁnition, including the RFC reference and values of input factors, called "Fixed Parameters".

7.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

For delay:

Almes, G., Kalidindi, S., Zekauskas, M., and A. Morton, Ed., "A One-Way Delay Metric for IP
Performance Metrics (IPPM)", STD 81, RFC 7679, DOI 10.17487/RFC7679, January 2016, <https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7679>.

[RFC7679]

Morton, A. and E. Stephan, "Spatial Composition of Metrics", RFC 6049, DOI 10.17487/RFC6049,
January 2011, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6049>.

[RFC6049]

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

 provides the reference deﬁnition of the singleton (single value) one-

Section 3.4 of [RFC7679]
way delay metric.
a multi-value sample. Note that terms such as "singleton" and "sample" are deﬁned in
11 of [RFC2330]

 provides the reference deﬁnition expanded to cover

Section 4.4 of [RFC7679]

Section

.

Only successful packet transfers with ﬁnite delay are included in the sample, as prescribed in
Section 4.1.2 of [RFC6049]

.

For loss:

Almes, G., Kalidindi, S., Zekauskas, M., and A. Morton, Ed., "A One-Way Loss Metric for IP
Performance Metrics (IPPM)", STD 82, RFC 7680, DOI 10.17487/RFC7680, January 2016, <https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7680>.

[RFC7680]

 provides the reference deﬁnition of the singleton (single value) one-

Section 2.4 of [RFC7680]
way Loss metric.
a multi-singleton sample. Note that terms such as "singleton" and "sample" are deﬁned in
Section 11 of [RFC2330]

 provides the reference deﬁnition expanded to cover

Section 3.4 of [RFC7680]

.

7.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

Type-P:

IPv4 header values:

Set to 0
Set to 255

DSCP:
TTL:
Protocol:

Set to 17 (UDP)

IPv6 header values:

Set to 255

Set to 0

DSCP:
Hop Count:
Next Header:
Flow Label:
Extension Headers:

Set to 0

None

Set to 17 (UDP)

UDP header values:

Checksum:
header

The checksum

MUST

 be calculated and the non-zero checksum included in the

UDP Payload:

TWAMP-Test packet formats (

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC5357]

)

Security features in use inﬂuence the number of Padding octets

250 octets total, including the TWAMP format type, which

MUST

 be reported

Other measurement Parameters:

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Tmax: A loss threshold waiting time with value 3.0, expressed in units of seconds, as a
Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
with a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms), with lossless conversion to/from the 32-bit NTP
timestamp as per

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) and

.

See the Packet Stream Generation section for two additional Fixed Parameters.

7.3.  Method of Measurement

This category includes columns for references to relevant sections of the RFC(s) and any
supplemental information needed to ensure an unambiguous method for implementations.

7.3.1.  Reference Methods

The methodology for this metric (equivalent to Type-P-One-way-Delay-Poisson-Stream) is deﬁned
as in
 (for samples) using the
Type-P and Tmax deﬁned in the Fixed Parameters column.

Section 4.6 of [RFC7679]

Section 3.6 of [RFC7679]

 (for singletons) and

The reference method distinguishes between long-delayed packets and lost packets by
implementing a maximum waiting time for packet arrival. Tmax is the waiting time used as the
 be designated as having undeﬁned delay
threshold to declare a packet lost. Lost packets
and counted for the OWLoss metric.

SHALL

SHALL

The calculations on the one-way delay
conditioned on successful packet arrival within Tmax. Also, when all packet delays are stored, the
process that calculates the one-way delay value
values before calculations. See
to exclude undeﬁned values of delay, and see
analysis choice.

 be performed on the conditional distribution,

 for details on the conditional distribution

 enforce the Tmax threshold on stored

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

 for background on this

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

MUST

The reference method requires some way to distinguish between diﬀerent packets in a stream to
establish correspondence between sending times and receiving times for each successfully
arriving packet.

Since a standard measurement protocol is employed
determine the sequence numbers or timestamps applied to test packets after the Fixed and
Runtime Parameters are passed to that process. The measurement protocol dictates the format of
sequence numbers and timestamps conveyed in the TWAMP-Test packet payload.

, the measurement process will

[RFC5357]

7.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

This section provides details regarding packet traﬃc, which is used as the basis for measurement.
In IPPM Metrics, this is called the "stream"; this stream can easily be described by providing the
list of stream Parameters.

Section 11.1.3 of [RFC2330]
reciprocal of lambda is the average packet spacing; thus, the Runtime Parameter is
Reciprocal_lambda = 1/lambda, in seconds.

 provides three methods to generate Poisson sampling intervals. The

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

SHALL

 be used. Where given a start time (Runtime Parameter), the subsequent send

Method 3
times are all computed prior to measurement by computing the pseudorandom distribution of
inter-packet send times (truncating the distribution as speciﬁed in the Parameter Trunc), and the
Src sends each packet at the computed times.

Note that Trunc is the upper limit on inter-packet times in the Poisson distribution. A random
value greater than Trunc is set equal to Trunc instead.

Reciprocal_lambda:

Average packet interval for Poisson streams, expressed in units of seconds,
) with

as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms), and with lossless conversion to/from the 32-bit NTP
timestamp as per

. Reciprocal_lambda = 1 second.

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

Trunc:

Upper limit on Poisson distribution, expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of
) with a resolution of 0.0001
Section

type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
seconds (0.1 ms), and with lossless conversion to/from the 32-bit NTP timestamp as per
6 of [RFC5905]
Trunc = 30.0000 seconds.

 (values above this limit will be clipped and set to the limit value).

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

7.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

N/A

7.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

N/A

7.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

Runtime Parameters are input factors that must be determined, conﬁgured into the
measurement system, and reported with the results for the context to be complete.

Src:

The IP address of the host in the Src Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

Dst:

The IP address of the host in the Dst Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

T0:

A time, the start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
interpreted as the duration of the measurement interval. The start time is controlled through
other means.

. When T0 is "all-zeros", a start time is unspeciﬁed and Tf is to be

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

Tf:

A time, the end of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
interpreted as the duration of the measurement interval.

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

. When T0 is "all-zeros", an ending time and date is ignored and Tf is

Section 5.6 of
). The UTC Time Zone is required

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

7.3.6.  Roles

Src:

Launches each packet and waits for return transmissions from the Dst.  An example is the

TWAMP Session-Sender.

Dst:

Waits for each packet from the Src and sends a return packet to the Src.  An example is the

TWAMP Session-Reﬂector.

7.4.  Output

This category speciﬁes all details of the output of measurements using the metric.

7.4.1.  Type

Types are discussed in the subsections below.

7.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

For all output types:

T0:

The start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

[RFC3339]
by

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

.

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Tf:

The end of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

[RFC3339]
by

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

.

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

). The UTC Time Zone is required

For LossRatio, the count of lost packets to total packets sent is the basis for the loss ratio
calculation as per

Section 4.1 of [RFC7680]

.

For each <statistic> or Percent_LossRatio, one of the following subsections applies.

7.4.2.1.  Percentile95

The 95th percentile
ﬁnite value of one-way delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.3 of [RFC3393]

See
be substituted for "ipdv").

 for details on the percentile statistic (where round-trip delay should

The percentile = 95, meaning that the reported delay, "95Percentile", is the smallest value of one-
way delay for which the Empirical Distribution Function, EDF(95Percentile), is greater than or
equal to 95% of the singleton one-way delay values in the conditional distribution. See
of [RFC2330]

 for the deﬁnition of the percentile statistic using the EDF.

Section 11.3

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

95Percentile:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of

type decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

7.4.2.2.  Mean

The mean
of one-way delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite value

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.2.2 of [RFC6049]

 for details on calculating this statistic; see also

Section 4.2.3 of

See
[RFC6049]

.

Mean:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

7.4.2.3.  Min

The minimum
value of one-way delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.3.2 of [RFC6049]

 for details on calculating this statistic; see also

Section 4.3.3 of

See
[RFC6049]

.

Min:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

7.4.2.4.  Max

The maximum
value of one-way delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.3.2 of [RFC6049]

See
Section 4.3.3 of [RFC6049]

. The formula is as follows:

 for a closely related method for calculating this statistic; see also

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

   Max = (FiniteDelay[j])

such that for some index, j, where 1 <= j <= N FiniteDelay[j] >= FiniteDelay[n] for all n

Max:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

7.4.2.5.  Std_Dev

The standard deviation (Std_Dev)
packets with a ﬁnite value of one‑way delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as
follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 6.1.4 of [RFC6049]

See
formula is the classic calculation for the standard deviation of a population.

 for a closely related method for calculating this statistic. The

Deﬁne Population Std_Dev_Delay as follows:

                     _                                       _
                    |            N                            |
                    |           ---                           |
                    |     1     \                          2  |
    Std_Dev = SQRT  |  -------   >   (Delay[n] - MeanDelay)   |
                    |    (N)    /                             |
                    |           ---                           |
                    |          n = 1                          |
                    |_                                       _|

where all packets n = 1 through N have a value for Delay[n], MeanDelay is calculated per Section
7.4.2.2, and SQRT[] is the Square Root function:

Std_Dev:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type
Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as per
6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of 0.000000001
Section

.

7.4.2.6.  Percent_LossRatio

Percent_LossRatio:

packets times 100%, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
9.3 of [RFC6020]

) with a resolution of 0.0000000001.

The numeric value of the result is expressed in units of lost packets to total
Section

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

7.4.3.  Metric Units

The <statistic> of one-way delay is expressed in seconds, where <statistic> is one of:

•

95Percentile

•

Mean

•

Min

•

Max

•

StdDev

The one-way loss ratio is expressed as a percentage of lost packets to total packets sent.

7.4.4.  Calibration

 provides a means to quantify the systematic and random errors of a

Section 3.7.3 of [RFC7679]
time measurement. Calibration in-situ could be enabled with an internal loopback that includes
as much of the measurement system as possible, performs address manipulation as needed, and
provides some form of isolation (e.g., deterministic delay) to avoid send-receive interface
contention. Some portion of the random and systematic error can be characterized in this way.

For one-way delay measurements, the error calibration must include an assessment of the
internal clock synchronization with its external reference (this internal clock is supplying
timestamps for measurement). In practice, the time oﬀsets
and Destination are needed to estimate the systematic error due to imperfect clock
synchronization (the time oﬀsets
usually represented in the results).

 are smoothed; thus, the random variation is not

[RFC5905]

[RFC5905]

 of clocks at both the Source

time_oﬀset:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a signed value of

type decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

When a measurement controller requests a calibration measurement, the loopback is applied
and the result is output in the same format as a normal measurement, with an additional
indication that it is a calibration result. In any measurement, the measurement function
report its current estimate of the time oﬀset
synchronization.

 as an indicator of the degree of

[RFC5905]

SHOULD

Both internal loopback calibration and clock synchronization can be used to estimate the
available accuracy of the Output Metric Units. For example, repeated loopback delay
measurements will reveal the portion of the output result resolution that is the result of system
noise and is thus inaccurate.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

7.5.  Administrative Items

7.5.1.  Status

Current

7.5.2.  Requester

RFC 8912

7.5.3.  Revision

1.0

7.5.4.  Revision Date

2021-11-17

7.6.  Comments and Remarks

None

8.  UDP Periodic One-Way Delay and Loss Registry Entries

This section speciﬁes ﬁve initial Registry Entries for UDP Periodic One-Way Delay and one entry
for UDP Periodic One-Way Loss.

All column entries besides the ID, Name, Description, and Output Reference Method categories
are the same; thus, this section deﬁnes six closely related Registry Entries. As a result, IANA has
assigned corresponding URLs to each of the six Named Metrics.

8.1.  Summary

This category includes multiple indexes to the Registry Entries: the element ID and Metric Name.

8.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

IANA has allocated the numeric Identiﬁers 12-17 for the six Named Metric Entries in Section 8. See
Section 8.1.2 for mapping to Names.

8.1.2.  Name

12:

OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Periodic20m-Payload142B_RFC8912sec8_Seconds_95Percentile

13:

OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Periodic20m-Payload142B_RFC8912sec8_Seconds_Mean

14:

OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Periodic20m-Payload142B_RFC8912sec8_Seconds_Min

15:

OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Periodic20m-Payload142B_RFC8912sec8_Seconds_Max

16:

OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-Periodic20m-Payload142B_RFC8912sec8_Seconds_StdDev

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

17: OWLoss_Active_IP-UDP-Periodic20m-Payload142B_RFC8912sec8_Percent_LossRatio

8.1.3.  URI

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-

URL:
Periodic20m-Payload142B_RFC8912sec8_Seconds_95Percentile

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-

URL:
Periodic20m-Payload142B_RFC8912sec8_Seconds_Mean

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-

URL:
Periodic20m-Payload142B_RFC8912sec8_Seconds_Min

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-

URL:
Periodic20m-Payload142B_RFC8912sec8_Seconds_Max

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWDelay_Active_IP-UDP-

URL:
Periodic20m-Payload142B_RFC8912sec8_Seconds_StdDev

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/OWLoss_Active_IP-UDP-

URL:
Periodic20m-Payload142B_RFC8912sec8_Percent_LossRatio

8.1.4.  Description

OWDelay:

This metric assesses the delay of a stream of packets exchanged between two hosts

(or measurement points) and reports the <statistic> of one-way delay for all successfully
exchanged packets based on their conditional delay distribution.

where <statistic> is one of:

•

95Percentile

•

Mean

•

Min

•

Max

•

StdDev

OWLoss:

This metric assesses the loss ratio of a stream of packets exchanged between two hosts

(which are the two measurement points). The output is the one-way loss ratio for all
transmitted packets expressed as a percentage.

8.1.5.  Change Controller

IETF

8.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

1.0

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

8.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

This category includes columns to prompt the entry of all necessary details related to the metric
deﬁnition, including the RFC reference and values of input factors, called "Fixed Parameters".

8.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

For delay:

Almes, G., Kalidindi, S., Zekauskas, M., and A. Morton, Ed., "A One-Way Delay Metric for IP
Performance Metrics (IPPM)", STD 81, RFC 7679, DOI 10.17487/RFC7679, January 2016, <https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7679>.

[RFC7679]

Morton, A. and E. Stephan, "Spatial Composition of Metrics", RFC 6049, DOI 10.17487/RFC6049,
January 2011, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6049>.

[RFC6049]

 provides the reference deﬁnition of the singleton (single value) one-

Section 3.4 of [RFC7679]
way delay metric.
a multi-value sample. Note that terms such as "singleton" and "sample" are deﬁned in
11 of [RFC2330]

 provides the reference deﬁnition expanded to cover

Section 4.4 of [RFC7679]

Section

.

Only successful packet transfers with ﬁnite delay are included in the sample, as prescribed in
Section 4.1.2 of [RFC6049]

.

For loss:

Almes, G., Kalidindi, S., Zekauskas, M., and A. Morton, Ed., "A One-Way Loss Metric for IP
Performance Metrics (IPPM)", STD 82, RFC 7680, DOI 10.17487/RFC7680, January 2016, <https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7680>.

[RFC7680]

 provides the reference deﬁnition of the singleton (single value) one-

Section 2.4 of [RFC7680]
way Loss metric.
a multi-singleton sample. Note that terms such as "singleton" and "sample" are deﬁned in
Section 11 of [RFC2330]

 provides the reference deﬁnition expanded to cover

Section 3.4 of [RFC7680]

.

8.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

Type-P:

IPv4 header values:

Set to 0
Set to 255

DSCP:
TTL:
Protocol:

Set to 17 (UDP)

IPv6 header values:

Set to 0

DSCP:
Hop Count:

Set to 255

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Set to 17 (UDP)

Next Header:
Flow Label:
Extension Headers:

Set to 0

None

UDP header values:

Checksum:
header

The checksum

MUST

 be calculated and the non-zero checksum included in the

UDP Payload:

TWAMP-Test packet formats (

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC5357]

)

Security features in use inﬂuence the number of Padding octets

142 octets total, including the TWAMP format (and format type
used)

MUST

 be reported, if

Other measurement Parameters:

Tmax:

A loss threshold waiting time with value 3.0, expressed in units of seconds, as a
Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
with a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms), with lossless conversion to/from the 32-bit NTP
timestamp as per

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) and

.

See the Packet Stream Generation section for three additional Fixed Parameters.

8.3.  Method of Measurement

This category includes columns for references to relevant sections of the RFC(s) and any
supplemental information needed to ensure an unambiguous method for implementations.

8.3.1.  Reference Methods

Section 3.6 of [RFC7679]

The methodology for this metric (equivalent to Type-P-One-way-Delay-Poisson-Stream) is deﬁned
 (for samples) using the
as in
Type-P and Tmax deﬁned in the Fixed Parameters column. However, a Periodic stream is used, as
deﬁned in

Section 4.6 of [RFC7679]

 (for singletons) and

[RFC3432]

.

The reference method distinguishes between long-delayed packets and lost packets by
implementing a maximum waiting time for packet arrival. Tmax is the waiting time used as the
threshold to declare a packet lost. Lost packets
 be designated as having undeﬁned delay
and counted for the OWLoss metric.

SHALL

SHALL

The calculations on the one-way delay
conditioned on successful packet arrival within Tmax. Also, when all packet delays are stored, the
process that calculates the one-way delay value
values before calculations. See
to exclude undeﬁned values of delay, and see
analysis choice.

 be performed on the conditional distribution,

 for details on the conditional distribution

 enforce the Tmax threshold on stored

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

 for background on this

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

MUST

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

The reference method requires some way to distinguish between diﬀerent packets in a stream to
establish correspondence between sending times and receiving times for each successfully
arriving packet.

Since a standard measurement protocol is employed
determine the sequence numbers or timestamps applied to test packets after the Fixed and
Runtime Parameters are passed to that process. The measurement protocol dictates the format of
sequence numbers and timestamps conveyed in the TWAMP-Test packet payload.

, the measurement process will

[RFC5357]

8.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

This section provides details regarding packet traﬃc, which is used as the basis for measurement.
In IPPM Metrics, this is called the "stream"; this stream can easily be described by providing the
list of stream Parameters.

Section 3 of [RFC3432]
Parameters.

 prescribes the method for generating Periodic streams using associated

incT:

The nominal duration of the inter-packet interval, ﬁrst bit to ﬁrst bit, with value 0.0200,
expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]
conversion to/from the 32-bit NTP timestamp as per

) and with a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms), with lossless

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

.

dT:

The duration of the interval for allowed sample start times, with value 1.0000, expressed in

units of seconds, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
[RFC6020]
the 32-bit NTP timestamp as per

) and with a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms), with lossless conversion to/from

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

Section 9.3 of

.

T0:

The actual start time of the periodic stream, determined from T0 and dT.

Note: An initiation process with a number of control exchanges resulting in unpredictable
start times (within a time interval) may be suﬃcient to avoid synchronization of periodic
streams and is a valid replacement for selecting a start time at random from a ﬁxed interval.

These stream Parameters will be speciﬁed as Runtime Parameters.

8.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

N/A

8.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

N/A

8.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

Runtime Parameters are input factors that must be determined, conﬁgured into the
measurement system, and reported with the results for the context to be complete.

Src:

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

The IP address of the host in the Src Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or ipv6-
Section 4 of [RFC6991]
address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

).

Dst:

The IP address of the host in the Dst Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

T0:

A time, the start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
interpreted as the duration of the measurement interval. The start time is controlled through
other means.

. When T0 is "all-zeros", a start time is unspeciﬁed and Tf is to be

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

Tf:

A time, the end of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
interpreted as the duration of the measurement interval.

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

. When T0 is "all-zeros", an ending time and date is ignored and Tf is

Section 5.6 of
). The UTC Time Zone is required

8.3.6.  Roles

Src:

Launches each packet and waits for return transmissions from the Dst.  An example is the

TWAMP Session-Sender.

Dst:

Waits for each packet from the Src and sends a return packet to the Src.  An example is the

TWAMP Session-Reﬂector.

8.4.  Output

This category speciﬁes all details of the output of measurements using the metric.

8.4.1.  Type

Latency and Loss Types are discussed in the subsections below.

8.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

For all output types:

T0:

The start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

[RFC3339]
by

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

.

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Tf:

The end of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

[RFC3339]
by

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

.

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

). The UTC Time Zone is required

For LossRatio, the count of lost packets to total packets sent is the basis for the loss ratio
calculation as per

Section 4.1 of [RFC7680]

.

For each <statistic> or Percent_LossRatio, one of the following subsections applies.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

8.4.2.1.  Percentile95

The 95th percentile
ﬁnite value of one-way delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.3 of [RFC3393]

See
be substituted for "ipdv").

 for details on the percentile statistic (where round-trip delay should

The percentile = 95, meaning that the reported delay, "95Percentile", is the smallest value of one-
way delay for which the Empirical Distribution Function, EDF(95Percentile), is greater than or
equal to 95% of the singleton one-way delay values in the conditional distribution. See
of [RFC2330]

 for the deﬁnition of the percentile statistic using the EDF.

Section 11.3

95Percentile:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of

type decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

8.4.2.2.  Mean

The mean
of one-way delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite value

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.2.2 of [RFC6049]

 for details on calculating this statistic; see also

Section 4.2.3 of

See
[RFC6049]

.

Mean:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

8.4.2.3.  Min

The minimum
value of one-way delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.3.2 of [RFC6049]

 for details on calculating this statistic; see also

Section 4.3.3 of

See
[RFC6049]

.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Min:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

8.4.2.4.  Max

The maximum
value of one-way delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.3.2 of [RFC6049]

See
Section 4.3.3 of [RFC6049]

. The formula is as follows:

 for a closely related method for calculating this statistic; see also

   Max = (FiniteDelay[j])

such that for some index, j, where 1 <= j <= N FiniteDelay[j] >= FiniteDelay[n] for all n

Max:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

8.4.2.5.  Std_Dev

Std_Dev
of one‑way delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite value

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 6.1.4 of [RFC6049]

See
formula is the classic calculation for the standard deviation of a population.

 for a closely related method for calculating this statistic. The

Deﬁne Population Std_Dev_Delay as follows:

                     _                                       _
                    |            N                            |
                    |           ---                           |
                    |     1     \                          2  |
    Std_Dev = SQRT  |  -------   >   (Delay[n] - MeanDelay)   |
                    |    (N)    /                             |
                    |           ---                           |
                    |          n = 1                          |
                    |_                                       _|

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

where all packets n = 1 through N have a value for Delay[n], MeanDelay is calculated per Section
8.4.2.2, and SQRT[] is the Square Root function:

Std_Dev:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type
Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as per
6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of 0.000000001
Section

.

8.4.2.6.  Percent_LossRatio

Percent_LossRatio:

packets times 100%, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
9.3 of [RFC6020]

 with a resolution of 0.0000000001.

The numeric value of the result is expressed in units of lost packets to total
Section

8.4.3.  Metric Units

The <statistic> of one-way delay is expressed in seconds, where <statistic> is one of:

•

95Percentile

•

Mean

•

Min

•

Max

•

StdDev

The one-way loss ratio is expressed as a percentage of lost packets to total packets sent.

8.4.4.  Calibration

 provides a means to quantify the systematic and random errors of a

Section 3.7.3 of [RFC7679]
time measurement. Calibration in-situ could be enabled with an internal loopback that includes
as much of the measurement system as possible, performs address manipulation as needed, and
provides some form of isolation (e.g., deterministic delay) to avoid send-receive interface
contention. Some portion of the random and systematic error can be characterized in this way.

For one-way delay measurements, the error calibration must include an assessment of the
internal clock synchronization with its external reference (this internal clock is supplying
timestamps for measurement). In practice, the time oﬀsets
and Destination are needed to estimate the systematic error due to imperfect clock
synchronization (the time oﬀsets
usually represented in the results).

 are smoothed; thus, the random variation is not

[RFC5905]

[RFC5905]

 of clocks at both the Source

time_oﬀset:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a signed value of

type decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

When a measurement controller requests a calibration measurement, the loopback is applied
and the result is output in the same format as a normal measurement, with an additional
indication that it is a calibration result. In any measurement, the measurement function
report its current estimate of the time oﬀset
synchronization.

 as an indicator of the degree of

[RFC5905]

SHOULD

Both internal loopback calibration and clock synchronization can be used to estimate the
available accuracy of the Output Metric Units. For example, repeated loopback delay
measurements will reveal the portion of the output result resolution that is the result of system
noise and is thus inaccurate.

8.5.  Administrative Items

8.5.1.  Status

Current

8.5.2.  Requester

RFC 8912

8.5.3.  Revision

1.0

8.5.4.  Revision Date

2021-11-17

8.6.  Comments and Remarks

None

9.  ICMP Round-Trip Latency and Loss Registry Entries

This section speciﬁes three initial Registry Entries for ICMP Round‑Trip Latency and another
entry for the ICMP Round-Trip Loss Ratio.

All column entries besides the ID, Name, Description, and Output Reference Method categories
are the same; thus, this section deﬁnes four closely related Registry Entries. As a result, IANA has
assigned corresponding URLs to each of the four Named Metrics.

9.1.  Summary

This category includes multiple indexes to the Registry Entries: the element ID and Metric Name.

9.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

IANA has allocated the numeric Identiﬁers 18-21 for the four Named Metric Entries in Section 9.
See Section 9.1.2 for mapping to Names.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

9.1.2.  Name

18:

RTDelay_Active_IP-ICMP-SendOnRcv_RFC8912sec9_Seconds_Mean

19:

RTDelay_Active_IP-ICMP-SendOnRcv_RFC8912sec9_Seconds_Min

20:

RTDelay_Active_IP-ICMP-SendOnRcv_RFC8912sec9_Seconds_Max

21:

RTLoss_Active_IP-ICMP-SendOnRcv_RFC8912sec9_Percent_LossRatio

9.1.3.  URI

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RTDelay_Active_IP-ICMP-

URL:
SendOnRcv_RFC8912sec9_Seconds_Mean

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RTDelay_Active_IP-ICMP-

URL:
SendOnRcv_RFC8912sec9_Seconds_Min

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RTDelay_Active_IP-ICMP-

URL:
SendOnRcv_RFC8912sec9_Seconds_Max

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RTLoss_Active_IP-ICMP-

URL:
SendOnRcv_RFC8912sec9_Percent_LossRatio

9.1.4.  Description

RTDelay:

This metric assesses the delay of a stream of ICMP packets exchanged between two

hosts (which are the two measurement points). The output is the round-trip delay for all
successfully exchanged packets expressed as the <statistic> of their conditional delay
distribution, where <statistic> is one of:

•

Mean

•

Min

•

Max

RTLoss:

This metric assesses the loss ratio of a stream of ICMP packets exchanged between two

hosts (which are the two measurement points). The output is the round-trip loss ratio for all
transmitted packets expressed as a percentage.

9.1.5.  Change Controller

IETF

9.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

1.0

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

9.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

This category includes columns to prompt the entry of all necessary details related to the metric
deﬁnition, including the RFC reference and values of input factors, called "Fixed Parameters".

9.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

For delay:

Almes, G., Kalidindi, S., and M. Zekauskas, "A Round-trip Delay Metric for IPPM", RFC 2681, DOI
10.17487/RFC2681, September 1999, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2681>.

[RFC2681]

Section 2.4 of [RFC2681]
trip delay metric.
a multi-singleton sample. Note that terms such as "singleton" and "sample" are deﬁned in
Section 11 of [RFC2330]

 provides the reference deﬁnition of the singleton (single value) round-
 provides the reference deﬁnition expanded to cover

Section 3.4 of [RFC2681]

.

Note that although the deﬁnition of round-trip delay between the Source (Src) and the
Destination (Dst) as provided in
 is directionally ambiguous in the text,
this metric tightens the deﬁnition further to recognize that the host in the Src Role will send the
ﬁrst packet to the host in the Dst Role and will ultimately receive the corresponding return
packet from the Dst (when neither is lost).

Section 2.4 of [RFC2681]

 to refer to the value of round-trip delay
Finally, note that the variable "dT" is used in
in metric deﬁnitions and methods. The variable "dT" has been reused in other IPPM literature
to refer to diﬀerent quantities and cannot be used as a global variable name.

[RFC2681]

For loss:

Morton, A., "Round-Trip Packet Loss Metrics", RFC 6673, DOI 10.17487/RFC6673, August 2012,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6673>.

[RFC6673]

Both Delay and Loss metrics employ a maximum waiting time for received packets, so the count
of lost packets to total packets sent is the basis for the loss ratio calculation as per
Section 6.1 of
[RFC6673]

.

9.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

Type-P as deﬁned in

Section 13 of [RFC2330]

:

IPv4 header values:

Set to 0
Set to 255

DSCP:
TTL:
Protocol:

Set to 01 (ICMP)

IPv6 header values:

DSCP:

Set to 0

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Set to 255

Hop Count:
Next Header:
Flow Label:
Extension Headers:

Set to 0

None

Set to 128 decimal (ICMP)

ICMP header values:

8 (Echo Request)
0

Type:
Code:
Checksum:
header

The checksum

MUST

 be calculated and the non-zero checksum included in the

(Identiﬁer and sequence number set at runtime)

ICMP Payload:

Total of 32 bytes of random information, constant per test

Other measurement Parameters:

Tmax:

A loss threshold waiting time with value 3.0, expressed in units of seconds, as a
Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
with a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms), with lossless conversion to/from the 32-bit NTP
timestamp as per

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) and

.

9.3.  Method of Measurement

This category includes columns for references to relevant sections of the RFC(s) and any
supplemental information needed to ensure an unambiguous method for implementations.

9.3.1.  Reference Methods

The methodology for this metric (equivalent to Type-P-Round-trip-Delay-Poisson-Stream) is
deﬁned as in
using the Type-P and Tmax deﬁned in the Fixed Parameters column.

Section 3.6 of [RFC2681]

Section 2.6 of [RFC2681]

 (for singletons) and

 (for samples)

The reference method distinguishes between long-delayed packets and lost packets by
implementing a maximum waiting time for packet arrival. Tmax is the waiting time used as the
threshold to declare a packet lost. Lost packets
 be designated as having undeﬁned delay
and counted for the RTLoss metric.

SHALL

The calculations on the delay (RTD)
conditioned on successful packet arrival within Tmax. Also, when all packet delays are stored, the
process that calculates the RTD value
calculations. See
undeﬁned values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude

 enforce the Tmax threshold on stored values before

 be performed on the conditional distribution,

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

SHALL

MUST

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

The reference method requires some way to distinguish between diﬀerent packets in a stream to
establish correspondence between sending times and receiving times for each successfully
arriving packet. Sequence numbers or other send-order identiﬁcation
MUST
or included with each packet to disambiguate packet reordering if it occurs.

 be retained at the Src

The measurement process will determine the sequence numbers applied to test packets after the
Fixed and Runtime Parameters are passed to that process. The ICMP measurement process and
protocol will dictate the format of sequence numbers and other Identiﬁers.

Section 4.4 of [RFC6673]

Refer to
packet back to the Src as quickly as possible" in
presents additional requirements that
metric.

MUST

 for an expanded discussion of the instruction to "send a Type-P

Section 2.6 of [RFC2681] Section 8 of [RFC6673]
.

 be included in the Method of Measurement for this

9.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

This section provides details regarding packet traﬃc, which is used as the basis for measurement.
In IPPM Metrics, this is called the "stream"; this stream can easily be described by providing the
list of stream Parameters.

The ICMP metrics use a sending discipline called "SendOnRcv" or Send On Receive. This is a
modiﬁcation of
, which prescribes the method for generating Periodic
streams using associated Parameters as deﬁned below for this description:

Section 3 of [RFC3432]

incT:

The nominal duration of the inter-packet interval, ﬁrst bit to ﬁrst bit.

dT:

The duration of the interval for allowed sample start times.

The incT stream Parameter will be speciﬁed as a Runtime Parameter, and dT is not used in
SendOnRcv.

A SendOnRcv sender behaves exactly like a Periodic stream generator while all reply packets
arrive with RTD < incT, and the inter-packet interval will be constant.

If a reply packet arrives with RTD >= incT, then the inter-packet interval for the next sending time
is nominally RTD.

If a reply packet fails to arrive within Tmax, then the inter-packet interval for the next sending
time is nominally Tmax.

If an immediate Send On Reply arrival is desired, then set incT = 0.

9.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

N/A

9.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

N/A

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

9.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

Runtime Parameters are input factors that must be determined, conﬁgured into the
measurement system, and reported with the results for the context to be complete.

Src:

The IP address of the host in the Src Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

Dst:

The IP address of the host in the Dst Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

incT:

The nominal duration of the inter-packet interval, ﬁrst bit to ﬁrst bit, expressed in units of

seconds, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 4 (see
[RFC6020]

) and with a resolution of 0.0001 seconds (0.1 ms).

Section 9.3 of

T0:

A time, the start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
interpreted as the duration of the measurement interval. The start time is controlled through
other means.

. When T0 is "all-zeros", a start time is unspeciﬁed and Tf is to be

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

Count:

The total count of ICMP Echo Requests to send, formatted as a uint16, as per

Section 9.2

of [RFC6020]

.

See the Packet Stream Generation section for additional Runtime Parameters.

9.3.6.  Roles

Src:

Launches each packet and waits for return transmissions from the Dst.

Dst:

Waits for each packet from the Src and sends a return packet to the Src (ICMP Echo Reply,

Type 0).

9.4.  Output

This category speciﬁes all details of the output of measurements using the metric.

9.4.1.  Type

Latency and Loss Types are discussed in the subsections below.

9.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

For all output types:

T0:

The start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

[RFC3339]
by

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

.

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Tf:

The end of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

[RFC3339]
by

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

.

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

). The UTC Time Zone is required

TotalCount:
interval.

The count of packets actually sent by the Src to the Dst during the measurement

For each <statistic> or Percent_LossRatio, one of the following subsections applies.

9.4.2.1.  Mean

The mean
of round-trip delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite value

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.2.2 of [RFC6049]

 for details on calculating this statistic; see also

Section 4.2.3 of

See
[RFC6049]

.

Mean:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

9.4.2.2.  Min

The minimum
value of round-trip delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.3.2 of [RFC6049]

 for details on calculating this statistic; see also

Section 4.3.3 of

See
[RFC6049]

.

Min:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

9.4.2.3.  Max

The maximum
value of round-trip delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Section 4.3.2 of [RFC6049]

See
Section 4.3.3 of [RFC6049]

. The formula is as follows:

 for a closely related method for calculating this statistic; see also

   Max = (FiniteDelay[j])

such that for some index, j, where 1 <= j <= N FiniteDelay[j] >= FiniteDelay[n] for all n

Max:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

9.4.2.4.  Percent_LossRatio

For LossRatio, the count of lost packets to total packets sent is the basis for the loss ratio
calculation as per

Section 4.1 of [RFC7680]

.

Percent_LossRatio:

packets times 100%, as a positive value of type decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
9.3 of [RFC6020]

) with a resolution of 0.0000000001.

The numeric value of the result is expressed in units of lost packets to total
Section

9.4.3.  Metric Units

The <statistic> of round-trip delay is expressed in seconds, where <statistic> is one of:

•

Mean

•

Min

•

Max

The round-trip loss ratio is expressed as a percentage of lost packets to total packets sent.

9.4.4.  Calibration

 provides a means to quantify the systematic and random errors of a

Section 3.7.3 of [RFC7679]
time measurement. Calibration in-situ could be enabled with an internal loopback at the Source
host that includes as much of the measurement system as possible, performs address
manipulation as needed, and provides some form of isolation (e.g., deterministic delay) to avoid
send-receive interface contention. Some portion of the random and systematic error can be
characterized in this way.

When a measurement controller requests a calibration measurement, the loopback is applied
and the result is output in the same format as a normal measurement, with an additional
indication that it is a calibration result.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Both internal loopback calibration and clock synchronization can be used to estimate the
available accuracy of the Output Metric Units. For example, repeated loopback delay
measurements will reveal the portion of the output result resolution that is the result of system
noise and is thus inaccurate.

9.5.  Administrative Items

9.5.1.  Status

Current

9.5.2.  Requester

RFC 8912

9.5.3.  Revision

1.0

9.5.4.  Revision Date

2021-11-17

9.6.  Comments and Remarks

None

10.  TCP Round-Trip Delay and Loss Registry Entries

This section speciﬁes four initial Registry Entries for the Passive assessment of TCP Round-Trip
Delay (RTD) and another entry for the TCP Round-Trip Loss Count.

All column entries besides the ID, Name, Description, and Output Reference Method categories
are the same; thus, this section deﬁnes four closely related Registry Entries. As a result, IANA has
assigned corresponding URLs to each of the four Named Metrics.

10.1.  Summary

This category includes multiple indexes to the Registry Entries: the element ID and Metric Name.

10.1.1.  ID (Identiﬁer)

IANA has allocated the numeric Identiﬁers 22-26 for the ﬁve Named Metric Entries in Section 10.
See Section 10.1.2 for mapping to Names.

10.1.2.  Name

22:

RTDelay_Passive_IP-TCP_RFC8912sec10_Seconds_Mean

23:

RTDelay_Passive_IP-TCP_RFC8912sec10_Seconds_Min

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

24:

RTDelay_Passive_IP-TCP_RFC8912sec10_Seconds_Max

25:

RTDelay_Passive_IP-TCP-HS_RFC8912sec10_Seconds_Singleton

Note that a midpoint observer only has the opportunity to compose a single RTDelay on the TCP
handshake.

26:

RTLoss_Passive_IP-TCP_RFC8912sec10_Packet_Count

10.1.3.  URI

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RTDelay_Passive_IP-

URL:
TCP_RFC8912sec10_Seconds_Mean

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RTDelay_Passive_IP-

URL:
TCP_RFC8912sec10_Seconds_Min

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RTDelay_Passive_IP-

URL:
TCP_RFC8912sec10_Seconds_Max

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RTDelay_Passive_IP-TCP-

URL:
HS_RFC8912sec10_Seconds_Singleton

https://www.iana.org/assignments/performance-metrics/RTLoss_Passive_IP-

URL:
TCP_RFC8912sec10_Packet_Count

10.1.4.  Description

RTDelay:

This metric assesses the round-trip delay of TCP packets constituting a single
connection, exchanged between two hosts. We consider the measurement of round-trip delay
based on a single Observation Point (OP)
 somewhere in the network. The output is
[RFC7011]
the round-trip delay for all successfully exchanged packets expressed as the <statistic> of their
conditional delay distribution, where <statistic> is one of:

•

Mean

•

Min

•

Max

RTDelay Singleton:

This metric assesses the round-trip delay of TCP packets initiating a single

connection (or 3-way handshake), exchanged between two hosts. We consider the
measurement of round-trip delay based on a single Observation Point (OP)
somewhere in the network. The output is the single measurement of Round-trip delay, or
Singleton.

[RFC7011]

RTLoss:

This metric assesses the estimated loss count for TCP packets constituting a single
connection, exchanged between two hosts. We consider the measurement of round-trip delay
based on a single OP
count for the measurement interval.

 somewhere in the network. The output is the estimated loss

[RFC7011]

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

10.1.5.  Change Controller

IETF

10.1.6.  Version (of Registry Format)

1.0

10.2.  Metric Deﬁnition

This category includes columns to prompt the entry of all necessary details related to the metric
deﬁnition, including the RFC reference and values of input factors, called "Fixed Parameters".

10.2.1.  Reference Deﬁnition

Almes, G., Kalidindi, S., and M. Zekauskas, "A Round-trip Delay Metric for IPPM", RFC 2681, DOI
10.17487/RFC2681, September 1999, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2681>.

[RFC2681]

Although there is no RFC that describes Passive Measurement of round-trip delay, the parallel
deﬁnition for Active Measurement is provided in

[RFC2681]

.

This metric deﬁnition uses the term "wire time" as deﬁned in
terms "singleton" and "sample" as deﬁned in
provides the reference deﬁnition of the singleton (single value) round-trip delay metric.
3.4 of [RFC2681]

Section
 provides the reference deﬁnition expanded to cover a multi-singleton sample.)

, and the
Section 11 of [RFC2330] Section 2.4 of [RFC2681]
. (

Section 10.2 of [RFC2330]

[RFC7011]

 typically located between the hosts participating in the TCP connection,

With the OP
the round-trip delay metric requires two individual measurements between the OP and each host,
such that the Spatial Composition
singleton (we are extending the composition of one-way subpath delays to subpath round-trip
delay).

 of the measurements yields a round-trip delay

[RFC6049]

Using the direction of TCP SYN transmission to anchor the nomenclature, host A sends the SYN,
and host B replies with SYN-ACK during connection establishment. The direction of SYN transfer is
considered the Forward direction of transmission, from A through the OP to B (the Reverse
direction is B through the OP to A).

Traﬃc Filters reduce the packet streams at the OP to a Qualiﬁed bidirectional ﬂow of packets.

In the deﬁnitions below, Corresponding Packets are transferred in diﬀerent directions and
convey a common value in a TCP header ﬁeld that establishes correspondence (to the extent
possible). Examples may be found in the TCP timestamp ﬁelds.

For a real number, RTD_fwd, >> the round-trip delay in the Forward direction from the OP to host
 that the OP observed a Qualiﬁed Packet to host B at wire
B at time T' is RTD_fwd << it is
time T', that host B received that packet and sent a Corresponding Packet back to host A, and the
OP observed the Corresponding Packet at wire time T' + RTD_fwd.

REQUIRED

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

For a real number, RTD_rev, >> the round-trip delay in the Reverse direction from the OP to host A
at time T'' is RTD_rev << it is
time T'', that host A received that packet and sent a Corresponding Packet back to host B, and that
the OP observed the Corresponding Packet at wire time T'' + RTD_rev.

 that the OP observed a Qualiﬁed Packet to host A at wire

REQUIRED

Ideally, the packet sent from host B to host A in both deﬁnitions above
packet (or, when measuring RTD_rev ﬁrst, the packet from host A to host B in both deﬁnitions
should be the same).

 be the same

SHOULD

REQUIRED

The
earliest of T' and T'' above) is:

 Composition Function for a singleton of round-trip delay at time T (where T is the

RTDelay = RTD_fwd + RTD_rev

Note that when the OP is located at host A or host B, one of the terms composing RTDelay will be
zero or negligible.

Using the abbreviation HS to refer to the TCP handshake: when the Qualiﬁed and Corresponding
Packets are a TCP-SYN and a TCP‑SYN-ACK, RTD_fwd == RTD_HS_fwd.

When the Qualiﬁed and Corresponding Packets are a TCP-SYN-ACK and a TCP-ACK, RTD_rev ==
RTD_HS_rev.

The
REQUIRED
handshake is:

 Composition Function for a singleton of round-trip delay for the connection

RTDelay_HS = RTD_HS_fwd + RTD_HS_rev

The deﬁnition of round-trip loss count uses the nomenclature developed above, based on
observation of the TCP header sequence numbers and storing the sequence number gaps
observed. Packet losses can be inferred from:

Out-of-order segments:

TCP segments are transmitted with monotonically increasing sequence
 describes the

numbers, but these segments may be received out of order.
notion of "next expected" sequence numbers, which can be adapted to TCP segments (for the
purpose of detecting reordered packets). Observation of out-of-order segments indicates loss
on the path prior to the OP and creates a gap.

Section 3 of [RFC4737]

Duplicate segments:

Section 2 of [RFC5560]

 deﬁnes identical packets and is suitable for

evaluation of TCP packets to detect duplication. Observation of a segment duplicates a
segment previously observed (and thus no corresponding observed segment gap) indicates
loss on the path following the OP (e.g., the segment overlaps part of the octet stream already
observed at the OP).

Each observation of an out-of-order or duplicate segment infers a singleton of loss, but the
composition of round-trip loss counts will be conducted over a measurement interval that is
synonymous with a single TCP connection.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 60

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

With the above observations in the Forward direction over a measurement interval, the count of
out-of-order and duplicate segments is deﬁned as RTL_fwd. Comparable observations in the
Reverse direction are deﬁned as RTL_rev.

For a measurement interval (corresponding to a single TCP connection) T0 to Tf, the
Composition Function for the two single-direction counts of inferred loss is:

REQUIRED

RTLoss = RTL_fwd + RTL_rev

10.2.2.  Fixed Parameters

Traﬃc Filters:

IPv4 header values:

Set to 0

DSCP:
Protocol:

Set to 06 (TCP)

IPv6 header values:

Set to 255

Set to 0

DSCP:
Hop Count:
Next Header:
Flow Label:
Extension Headers:

Set to 0

None

Set to 6 (TCP)

TCP header values:

Flags:
Timestamps Option (TSopt):

ACK, SYN, FIN, set as required
Set.  See

Section 3.2 of [RFC7323]

10.3.  Method of Measurement

This category includes columns for references to relevant sections of the RFC(s) and any
supplemental information needed to ensure an unambiguous method for implementations.

10.3.1.  Reference Methods

The foundational methodology for this metric is deﬁned in
Timestamps option with modiﬁcations that allow application at a mid-path OP
Further details and applicable heuristics were derived from

Section 4 of [RFC7323]

[Strowes]

[RFC7011]
[Trammell-14]
.

 using the
.

 and

The Traﬃc Filter at the OP is conﬁgured to observe a single TCP connection. When the SYN/SYN-
ACK/ACK handshake occurs, it oﬀers the ﬁrst opportunity to measure both RTD_fwd (on the SYN to
SYN-ACK pair) and RTD_rev (on the SYN-ACK to ACK pair). Label this singleton of RTDelay as
RTDelay_HS (composed using the Forward and Reverse measurement pair). RTDelay_HS
be treated separately from other RTDelays on data-bearing packets and their ACKs. The
RTDelay_HS value
payload-bearing packets.

 be used as a consistency check on the composed values of RTDelay for

SHALL

MAY

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 61

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

For payload-bearing packets, the OP measures the time interval between observation of a packet
with sequence number "s" and the corresponding ACK with the same sequence number. When the
payload is transferred from host A to host B, the observed interval is RTD_fwd.

For payload-bearing packets, each observation of an out-of-order or duplicate segment infers a
loss count, but the composition of round-trip loss counts will be conducted over a measurement
interval that is synonymous with a single TCP connection.

Because many data transfers are unidirectional (say, in the Forward direction from host A to host
B), it is necessary to use pure ACK packets with Timestamp (TSval) and packets with the
Timestamp value echo to perform a RTD_rev measurement. The time interval between
observation of the ACK from B to A, and the Corresponding Packet with a Timestamp Echo Reply
(TSecr) ﬁeld

, is the RTD_rev.

[RFC7323]

Delay Measurement Filtering Heuristics:

•

If data payloads were transferred in both Forward and Reverse directions, then the Round-
Trip Time Measurement rule in
 could be applied. This rule essentially
excludes any measurement using a packet unless it makes progress in the transfer (advances
the left edge of the send window, consistent with

Section 4.1 of [RFC7323]

[Strowes]

).

•

[Trammell-14]

A diﬀerent heuristic from
previously observed values. This would tend to exclude Reverse measurements taken when
the application has no data ready to send, because considerable time could be added to
RTD_rev from this source of error.

 is to exclude any RTD_rev that is larger than

•

Note that the above heuristic assumes that host A is sending data. Host A expecting a
download would mean that this heuristic should be applied to RTD_fwd.

•

The statistic calculations to summarize the delay (RTDelay)
conditional distribution, conditioned on successful Forward and Reverse measurements that
follow the heuristics.

 be performed on the

SHALL

Method for Inferring Loss:

•

The OP tracks sequence numbers and stores gaps for each direction of transmission, as well
as the next expected sequence number as discussed in
. Loss is
inferred from out-of-order segments and duplicate segments.

[Trammell-14]

[RFC4737]

 and

Loss Measurement Filtering Heuristics:

• [Trammell-14]

 adds a window of evaluation based on the RTDelay.

•

Distinguish reordered packets from out-of-order segments due to loss, because the sequence
number gap is ﬁlled during the same RTDelay window. Segments detected as reordered
according to

 reduce the loss count inferred from out-of-order segments.

[RFC4737] MUST

•

Spurious (unneeded) retransmissions (observed as duplicates) can also be reduced in this
way, as described in

[Trammell-14]

.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 62

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Sources of Error:

•

The principal source of RTDelay error is the host processing time to return a packet that
deﬁnes the termination of a time interval. The heuristics above intend to mitigate these
errors by excluding measurements where host processing time is a signiﬁcant part of
RTD_fwd or RTD_rev.

•

A key source of RTLoss error is observation loss, as described in Section 3 of

[Trammell-14]

.

10.3.2.  Packet Stream Generation

N/A

10.3.3.  Traﬃc Filtering (Observation) Details

The Fixed Parameters above give a portion of the Traﬃc Filter. Other aspects will be supplied as
Runtime Parameters (below).

10.3.4.  Sampling Distribution

This metric requires a complete sample of all packets that qualify according to the Traﬃc Filter
criteria.

10.3.5.  Runtime Parameters and Data Format

Runtime Parameters are input factors that must be determined, conﬁgured into the
measurement system, and reported with the results for the context to be complete.

Src:

The IP address of the host in the host A Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

Dst:

The IP address of the host in the host B Role (format ipv4‑address-no-zone value for IPv4 or

ipv6-address-no-zone value for IPv6; see

Section 4 of [RFC6991]

).

T0:

A time, the start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
interpreted as the duration of the measurement interval. The start time is controlled through
other means.

. When T0 is "all-zeros", a start time is unspeciﬁed and Tf is to be

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

Tf:

Optionally, the end of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

of [RFC3339]
UTC Time Zone is required by
measurement interval
of FIN and ACK packets exchanged between host A and host B eﬀectively ends the interval.

 be controlled by the measured connection, where the second pair

), or the duration (see T0). The

. Alternatively, the end of the

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

MAY

TTL or Hop Limit:

Set at desired value.

10.3.6.  Roles

host A:

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 63

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Launches the SYN packet to open the connection. The Role of "host A" is synonymous with the
IP address used at host A.

host B:

Replies with the SYN-ACK packet to open the connection. The Role of "host B" is

synonymous with the IP address used at host B.

10.4.  Output

This category speciﬁes all details of the output of measurements using the metric.

10.4.1.  Type

RTDelay Types are discussed in the subsections below.

For RTLoss: The count of lost packets.

10.4.2.  Reference Deﬁnition

For all output types:

T0:

The start of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

[RFC3339]
by

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

.

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Tf:

The end of a measurement interval (format "date‑time" as speciﬁed in

Section 5.6 of

Section 6.1 of [RFC2330]

; see also "date‑and‑time" in

[RFC3339]
by
. The end of the measurement interval
measured connection, where the second pair of FIN and ACK packets exchanged between host
A and host B eﬀectively ends the interval.

). The UTC Time Zone is required

Section 3 of [RFC6991]

 be controlled by the

MAY

RTDelay_Passive_IP-TCP-HS:

The round-trip delay of the handshake is a Singleton.

RTLoss:

The count of lost packets.

For each <statistic>, Singleton, or Loss Count, one of the following subsections applies.

10.4.2.1.  Mean

The mean
of round-trip delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite value

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.2.2 of [RFC6049]

 for details on calculating this statistic; see also

Section 4.2.3 of

See
[RFC6049]

.

Mean:

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 64

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type
decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

10.4.2.2.  Min

The minimum
value of round-trip delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.3.2 of [RFC6049]

 for details on calculating this statistic; see also

Section 4.3.3 of

See
[RFC6049]

.

Min:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

10.4.2.3.  Max

The maximum
value of round-trip delay (undeﬁned delays are excluded) -- a single value, as follows:

 be calculated using the conditional distribution of all packets with a ﬁnite

SHALL

Section 4.1 of [RFC3393]

See
values of delay, and see

 for details on the conditional distribution to exclude undeﬁned

Section 5 of [RFC6703]

 for background on this analysis choice.

Section 4.3.2 of [RFC6049]

See
Section 4.3.3 of [RFC6049]

. The formula is as follows:

 for a closely related method for calculating this statistic; see also

   Max = (FiniteDelay[j])

such that for some index, j, where 1 <= j <= N FiniteDelay[j] >= FiniteDelay[n] for all n

Max:

The time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type

decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
0.000000001 seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as
per

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

Section 6 of [RFC5905]

) with a resolution of

.

10.4.2.4.  Singleton

The singleton
RTD_rev (on the SYN-ACK to ACK pair), see Section 10.3.1.

SHALL

 be calculated using the successful RTD_fwd (on the SYN to SYN-ACK pair) and

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 65

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

The singleton time value of the result is expressed in units of seconds, as a positive value of type
decimal64 with fraction digits = 9 (see
seconds (1.0 ns), and with lossless conversion to/from the 64-bit NTP timestamp as per
[RFC5905]

) with resolution of 0.000000001

Section 9.3 of [RFC6020]

.

Section 6 of

10.4.2.5.  Loss Counts

RTLoss_Passive_IP-TCP_RFC8912sec10_Packet_Count: The count of lost packets.

Observation of an out-of-order segment or duplicate segment infers a loss count, after
application of the Deﬁnitions of Section 10.2.1 and the Loss Measurement Filtering Heuristics of
Section 10.3.1. The composition of round-trip loss counts will be conducted over a measurement
interval that is synonymous with a single TCP connection.

For a measurement interval (corresponding to a single TCP connection) T0 to Tf, the
Composition Function for the two single- direction counts of inferred loss is:

REQUIRED

RTLoss = RTL_fwd + RTL_rev

Packet count:

The numeric value of the result is expressed in units of lost packets, as a positive

value of type uint64 (represents integer values between 0 and 18446744073709551615,
inclusively (see

Section 9.2 of [RFC6020]

).

10.4.3.  Metric Units

The <statistic> of round-trip delay is expressed in seconds, where <statistic> is one of:

•

Mean

•

Min

•

Max

The round-trip delay of the TCP handshake singleton is expressed in seconds.

The round-trip loss count is expressed as a number of packets.

10.4.4.  Calibration

Passive Measurements at an OP could be calibrated against an Active Measurement (with loss
emulation) at host A or host B, where the Active Measurement represents the ground truth.

10.5.  Administrative Items

10.5.1.  Status

Current

10.5.2.  Requester

RFC 8912

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 66

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

10.5.3.  Revision

1.0

10.5.4.  Revision Date

2021-11-17

10.6.  Comments and Remarks

None

11.  Security Considerations

[RFC1035]

These Registry Entries represent no known implications for Internet security. With the exception
, each RFC referenced above contains a Security Considerations section. Further, the
of
Large-scale Measurement of Broadband Performance (LMAP) framework
both security and privacy considerations for measurements.

[RFC7594]

 provides

There are potential privacy considerations for observed traﬃc, particularly for Passive Metrics
as discussed in Section 10. An attacker that knows that its TCP connection is being measured can
modify its behavior to skew the measurement results.

12.  IANA Considerations

IANA has populated the Performance Metrics Registry deﬁned in
deﬁned in Sections 4 through 10.

[RFC8911]

 with the values

See the IANA Considerations section of

[RFC8911]

 for additional considerations.

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2330]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation" STD 13
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>
.

, November 1987,

,

,

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

, and
Paxson, V. Almes, G. Mahdavi, J.
,
Performance Metrics" RFC 2330 DOI 10.17487/RFC2330
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2330>

,

,

,

M. Mathis "Framework for IP

, May 1998,

<https://

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 67

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

[RFC2681]

[RFC3339]

[RFC3393]

[RFC3432]

[RFC4737]

[RFC5357]

[RFC5481]

[RFC5560]

[RFC5905]

[RFC6020]

[RFC6049]

[RFC6673]

[RFC6991]

[RFC7011]

Almes, G. Kalidindi, S.
RFC 2681 DOI 10.17487/RFC2681
info/rfc2681>
.

, and

,
,

,
, September 1999,

M. Zekauskas "A Round-trip Delay Metric for IPPM"
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,
Klyne, G.
,
3339 DOI 10.17487/RFC3339

 and

C. Newman "Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps" RFC

,

, July 2002,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3339>

 and

,
Demichelis, C.
,
,
Performance Metrics (IPPM)" RFC 3393 DOI 10.17487/RFC3393
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3393>

P. Chimento "IP Packet Delay Variation Metric for IP

, November 2002,

,
, and
Raisanen, V. Grotefeld, G.
,
with periodic streams" RFC 3432 DOI 10.17487/RFC3432
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3432>

A. Morton "Network performance measurement
<https://

, November 2002,

,

,

,

,
Morton, A. Ciavattone, L. Ramachandran, G. Shalunov, S.
Reordering Metrics" RFC 4737 DOI 10.17487/RFC4737
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4737>

,

,

,

, and
, November 2006,

,
J. Perser "Packet

<https://

,

,
J. Babiarz "A Two-Way
Hedayat, K. Krzanowski, R. Morton, A. Yum, K.
,
Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)" RFC 5357 DOI 10.17487/RFC5357
October 2008,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5357>

, and
,

,

,

,

 and
Morton, A.
,
5481 DOI 10.17487/RFC5481
.
rfc5481>

,

B. Claise "Packet Delay Variation Applicability Statement" RFC

,

, March 2009,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Uijterwaal, H. "A One-Way Packet Duplication Metric" RFC 5560 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5560

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5560>

,
, May 2009,

,

,

,

, and
Mills, D. Martin, J., Ed. Burbank, J.
W. Kasch "Network Time Protocol
Version 4: Protocol and Algorithms Speciﬁcation" RFC 5905 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5905

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5905>

, June 2010,

,
,

,

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "YANG - A Data Modeling Language for the Network
Conﬁguration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6020 DOI 10.17487/RFC6020
2010,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6020>

,

,

, October

Morton, A.
10.17487/RFC6049

 and

E. Stephan "Spatial Composition of Metrics" RFC 6049 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6049>

, January 2011,

,

,

,

,
Morton, A. "Round-Trip Packet Loss Metrics" RFC 6673 DOI 10.17487/RFC6673
August 2012,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6673>

,

,

,

Schoenwaelder, J., Ed. "Common YANG Data Types" RFC 6991 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6991

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6991>

, July 2013,

,

,

,

,

Claise, B., Ed. Trammell, B., Ed.
Information Export (IPFIX) Protocol for the Exchange of Flow Information" STD
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
77 RFC 7011 DOI 10.17487/RFC7011
.
info/rfc7011>

P. Aitken "Speciﬁcation of the IP Flow

, September 2013,

, and

,

,

,

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 68

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

[RFC7323]

[RFC7679]

[RFC7680]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8911]

[Strowes]

[Trammell-14]

,

Borman, D. Braden, B. Jacobson, V.
for High Performance" RFC 7323 DOI 10.17487/RFC7323
,
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7323>

, and

,
,

R. Scheﬀenegger, Ed. "TCP Extensions

,

, September 2014,

<https://

,

A. Morton, Ed. "A One-Way Delay
Almes, G. Kalidindi, S. Zekauskas, M.
,
Metric for IP Performance Metrics (IPPM)" STD 81 RFC 7679 DOI 10.17487/
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7679>
RFC7679

, January 2016,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

A. Morton, Ed. "A One-Way Loss
Almes, G. Kalidindi, S. Zekauskas, M.
,
Metric for IP Performance Metrics (IPPM)" STD 82 RFC 7680 DOI 10.17487/
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7680>
RFC7680

, January 2016,

, and

,

,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,
,
Bagnulo, M. Claise, B. Eardley, P. Morton, A.
,
,
Performance Metrics" RFC 8911 DOI 10.17487/RFC8911
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8911>

, and

A. Akhter "Registry for
, November 2021,

,

<https://

,

Strowes, S. "Passively Measuring TCP Round-Trip Times" Communications of the
ACM, Vol. 56 No. 10, Pages 57-64 DOI 10.1145/2507771.2507781
.
<https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2507771.2507781>

, October 2013,

,

,

, and

,
Trammell, B. Gugelmann, D.
Passive Measurement" In: Dainotti A., Mahanti A., Uhlig S. (eds) Traﬃc
Monitoring and Analysis. TMA 2014. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 8406.
Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg DOI 10.1007/978-3-642-54999-1_2
.
<https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-642-54999-1_2>

N. Brownlee "Inline Data Integrity Signals for

, March 2014,

,

,

,

13.2.  Informative References

[RFC1242]

[RFC6390]

[RFC6703]

[RFC7594]

,

Bradner, S. "Benchmarking Terminology for Network Interconnection Devices"
,
RFC 1242 DOI 10.17487/RFC1242
,
.
rfc1242>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 1991,

B. Claise "Guidelines for Considering New Performance Metric

 and

Clark, A.
,
Development" BCP 170 RFC 6390 DOI 10.17487/RFC6390
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6390>

,

,

,

, October 2011,

<https://

,

Morton, A. Ramachandran, G.
,
Performance Metrics: Diﬀerent Points of View" RFC 6703 DOI 10.17487/RFC6703
August 2012,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6703>

G. Maguluri "Reporting IP Network

, and

,
,

,

,

,

Eardley, P. Morton, A. Bagnulo, M. Burbridge, T. Aitken, P.
,
Framework for Large-Scale Measurement of Broadband Performance (LMAP)"
, September 2015,
RFC 7594 DOI 10.17487/RFC7594
.
info/rfc7594>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

A. Akhter "A

, and

,

,

,

,

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 69

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

[RFC8126]

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>
.

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

Acknowledgments

Brian Trammell

 for suggesting the term "Runtime Parameters", which led to

The authors thank
the distinction between Runtime and Fixed Parameters implemented in this memo, for
identifying the IP Flow Information Export (IPFIX) metric with Flow Key as an example, for
suggesting the Passive TCP RTD Metric and supporting references, and for many other productive
suggestions. Thanks to
Peter Koch
successive DNS queries in the DNS Response time metric.

, who provided several useful suggestions for disambiguating

,

The authors also acknowledge the constructive reviews and helpful suggestions from
,
Stark Juergen Schoenwaelder Tim Carey Yaakov Stein
Group. Thanks to
answering questions related to the presentation of the Registry and accessibility of the complete
template via URL.

, and participants in the LMAP Working
Amanda Baber

 for her early IANA reviews, and to

Michelle Cotton

Barbara

 for

,

Authors' Addresses

Al Morton
AT&T Labs
200 Laurel Avenue South
Middletown NJ 07748
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

 +1 732 420 1571
 acmorton@att.com

Marcelo Bagnulo
Universidad Carlos III de Madrid
Av. Universidad 30
28911 Leganes Madrid
Spain
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 34 91 6249500
 marcelo@it.uc3m.es
 http://www.it.uc3m.es

Philip Eardley
BT
Adastral Park, Martlesham Heath
Ipswich
United Kingdom
Email:

 philip.eardley@bt.com

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 70

RFC 8912

Initial Performance Metrics Registry

November 2021

Kevin D'Souza
AT&T Labs
200 Laurel Avenue South
Middletown NJ 07748
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

 +1 732 420 2514
 kld@att.com

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 71

