Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8909
Standards Track
November 2020
2070-1721
G. Lozano
ICANN

RFC 8909
Registry Data Escrow Speciﬁcation

Abstract

This document speciﬁes the format and contents of data escrow deposits targeted primarily for
domain name registries. The speciﬁcation is designed to be independent of the underlying
objects that are being escrowed, and therefore it could also be used for purposes other than
domain name registries.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8909

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Problem Scope

4.  Conventions Used in This Document

4.1.  Date and Time

5.  Protocol Description

5.1.  Root Element <deposit>

5.2.  Rebuilding the Registry from Data Escrow Deposits

6.  Formal Syntax

6.1.  RDE Schema

7.  Internationalization Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10. Privacy Considerations

11. Example of a Full Deposit

12. Example of a Diﬀerential Deposit

13. Example of an Incremental Deposit

14. References

14.1.  Normative References

14.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

Registry Data Escrow (RDE) is the process by which a registry periodically submits data deposits
to a third party called an escrow agent. These deposits comprise the minimum data needed by a
third party to resume operations if the registry cannot function and is unable or unwilling to

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

facilitate an orderly transfer of service. For example, for a domain name registry or registrar, the
data to be deposited would include all of the objects related to registered domain names, e.g.,
names, contacts, name servers.

The goal of data escrow is higher resiliency of registration services, for the beneﬁt of Internet
users. The beneﬁciaries of a registry are not just those registering information there but also the
users of services relying on the registry data.

In the context of domain name registries, registration data escrow is a requirement for generic
Top-Level Domains (gTLDs) (e.g., Speciﬁcation 2 of the ICANN Base Registry Agreement; see
[ICANN-GTLD-RA-20170731]
escrowing data. There is also a similar requirement for ICANN-accredited domain registrars.

), and some country code TLD (ccTLD) managers are also currently

This document speciﬁes a format for data escrow deposits independent of the objects being
escrowed. An independent speciﬁcation is required for each type of registry/set of objects that is
expected to be escrowed.

The format for data escrow deposits is speciﬁed using version 1.0 of the Extensible Markup
Language (XML) as described in
[W3C.REC-xml-20081126]
described in

, and XML Schema notation as
.
[W3C.REC-xmlschema-2-20041028]

[W3C.REC-xmlschema-1-20041028]

 and

Readers are advised to read Section 2 ("Terminology") carefully to understand the precise
meanings of Diﬀerential and Incremental Deposits, as the deﬁnitions used in this document are
diﬀerent from the deﬁnitions typically used in the domain of data backups.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Deposit:

There are three kinds of deposits: Full, Diﬀerential, and Incremental. For all three

kinds of deposits, the universe of registry objects to be considered for data escrow is
comprised of any objects required to oﬀer the registry services.

Diﬀerential Deposit:

A Diﬀerential Deposit contains data that reﬂects all transactions involving

the database that were not reﬂected in the last previous Full, Incremental, or Diﬀerential
Deposit, as the case may be. Diﬀerential Deposit ﬁles will contain information from all
database objects that were added, modiﬁed, or deleted since the previous deposit was
completed as of its deﬁned Timeline Watermark.

Domain Name:

See the deﬁnition of "domain name" in

[RFC8499]

.

Escrow Agent:

An escrow agent is the organization designated by the registry or the third-party

beneﬁciary to receive and guard data escrow deposits from the registry.

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

Full Deposit:

A Full Deposit contains the registry data that reﬂects the current and complete

registry database and will consist of data that reﬂects the state of the registry as of a deﬁned
Timeline Watermark for the deposit.

Incremental Deposit:

An Incremental Deposit contains data that reﬂects all transactions

involving the database that were not reﬂected in the last previous Full Deposit. Incremental
Deposit ﬁles will contain information from all database objects that were added, modiﬁed, or
deleted since the previous Full Deposit was completed as of its deﬁned Timeline Watermark.
If the Timeline Watermark of an Incremental Deposit were to cover the Timeline Watermark
of another Incremental or Diﬀerential Deposit since the last Full Deposit (i.e., one or more
Incremental or Diﬀerential Deposits exist for the period between the Timeline Watermark of
a Full Deposit and an Incremental or Diﬀerential Deposit), the more recent deposit
contain all of the transactions of the earlier deposit.

MUST

Registrar:

See the deﬁnition of "registrar" in

[RFC8499]

.

Registry:

See the deﬁnition of "registry" in

[RFC8499]

.

Third-Party Beneﬁciary:

A third-party beneﬁciary is the organization that, under extraordinary

circumstances, would receive the escrow deposits the registry transferred to the escrow
agent. This organization could be a backup registry, registry regulator, contracting party of
the registry, etc.

Timeline Watermark:

The Timeline Watermark is the point in time on which to base the

collecting of database objects for a deposit. Deposits are expected to be consistent with that
point in time.

Top-Level Domain (TLD):

See the deﬁnition of "Top-Level Domain" in

[RFC8499]

.

3.  Problem Scope

In the past few years, the issue of registry continuity has been carefully considered in the gTLD
and ccTLD spaces. Various organizations have carried out risk analyses and developed business
continuity plans to deal with those risks, should they materialize.

One of the solutions considered and used, especially in the gTLD space, is Registry Data Escrow
as a way to ensure the continuity of registry services in the extreme case of registry failure.

So far, almost every registry that uses Registry Data Escrow has its own speciﬁcation. It is
anticipated that more registries will be implementing escrow, especially with an increasing
number of domain registries coming into service, adding complexity to this issue.

It would seem beneﬁcial to have a standardized speciﬁcation for Registry Data Escrow that can
be used by any registry to submit its deposits.

While the domain name industry has been the main target for this speciﬁcation, it has been
designed to be as general as possible.

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

Speciﬁcations covering the objects used by registration organizations shall identify the format
and contents of the deposits a registry has to make, such that a diﬀerent registry would be able to
rebuild the registration services of the former, without its help, in a timely manner and with
minimum disruption to its users.

Since the details of the registration services provided vary from registry to registry, speciﬁcations
covering the objects used by registration organizations shall provide mechanisms that allow
extensibility to accommodate variations and extensions of the registration services.

Given the requirement for conﬁdentiality and the importance of accuracy of the information that
is handled in order to oﬀer registration services, parties using this speciﬁcation shall deﬁne
conﬁdentiality and integrity mechanisms for handling the registration data.

Speciﬁcations covering the objects used by registration organizations shall not include in the
speciﬁcation transient objects that can be recreated by the new registry, particularly those of
delicate conﬁdentiality, e.g., DNSSEC KSK/ZSK (Key Signing Key / Zone Signing Key) private keys.

Details that are a matter of policy should be identiﬁed as such for the beneﬁt of the
implementers.

Non-technical issues concerning data escrow, such as whether to escrow data and for what
purposes the data may be used, are outside the scope of this document.

Parties using this speciﬁcation shall use a signaling mechanism to control the transmission,
reception, and validation of data escrow deposits. The deﬁnition of such a signaling mechanism
is outside the scope of this document.

4.  Conventions Used in This Document

The XML namespace preﬁx "rde" is used for the namespace "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:rde-1.0", but
implementations
aware XML parser and serializer to interpret and output the XML documents.

 depend on it; instead, they should employ a proper namespace-

MUST NOT

The XML namespace preﬁxes "rdeObj1" and "rdeObj2", with the corresponding namespaces
"urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj1-1.0" and "urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj2-1.0", are
used as example data escrow objects.

4.1.  Date and Time

Numerous ﬁelds indicate "dates", such as the creation and expiry dates for objects. These ﬁelds
 contain timestamps indicating the date and time in UTC, speciﬁed in Internet Date/Time
SHALL
Format (see

) with the time-oﬀset parameter speciﬁed as "Z".

[RFC3339], Section 5.6

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

5.  Protocol Description

The format for data escrow deposits as produced by a registry is deﬁned below. The deposits are
represented in XML (Section 6). Only the format of the objects deposited is deﬁned. This
document does not prescribe the method used to transfer such deposits between the registry and
the escrow agent or vice versa.

The protocol intends to be object agnostic, allowing the "overload" of abstract elements using the
"substitutionGroup" attribute
 of the XML Schema element to
[W3C.REC-xmlschema-1-20041028]
deﬁne the actual elements of an object to be escrowed.

The speciﬁcation for each object to be escrowed
MUST
reference the object to be deleted or added/modiﬁed.

 declare the identiﬁer to be used to

5.1.  Root Element <deposit>

The container or root element for a Registry Data Escrow deposit is <deposit>.

The <deposit> element contains the following attributes:

•  REQUIRED

A

 "type" attribute that is used to identify the kind of deposit:

◦

◦

◦

FULL: Full.

INCR: Incremental.

DIFF: Diﬀerential.

•  REQUIRED

 "id" attribute that is used to uniquely identify the escrow deposit. Each registry

A
is responsible for maintaining its own escrow deposits' identiﬁer space to ensure
uniqueness.

•

A "prevId" attribute that can be used to identify the previous Incremental, Diﬀerential, or
Full Deposit. This attribute is
OPTIONAL
Incremental Deposits ("INCR" type), and is not used in Full Deposits ("FULL" type).

 in Diﬀerential Deposits ("DIFF" type), is

REQUIRED

 in

•

OPTIONAL

 "resend" attribute that is incremented each time the escrow deposit failed the

An
veriﬁcation procedure at the receiving party and a new escrow deposit needs to be
generated by the registry for that speciﬁc date. The ﬁrst time a deposit is generated, the
attribute either (1) is omitted or (2)
attribute

 be "0". If a deposit needs to be generated again, the

 be set to "1", and so on.

MUST

MUST

The <deposit> element contains the following child elements:

5.1.1.  Child <watermark> Element

REQUIRED

A
Timeline Watermark of the deposit.

 <watermark> element contains the date-time

[RFC3339]

 corresponding to the

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

5.1.2.  Child <rdeMenu> Element

This element contains auxiliary information regarding the data escrow deposit.

A

REQUIRED

 <rdeMenu> element contains the following child elements:

•  REQUIRED

A
1.0.

 <version> element that identiﬁes the RDE protocol version. This value

MUST

 be

•

One or more <objURI> elements that contain namespace URIs representing the <contents>
and <deletes> element objects.

5.1.3.  Child <deletes> Element

For Diﬀerential Deposits, this element contains the list of objects that have been deleted since the
previous deposit of any type. For Incremental Deposits, this element contains the list of objects
that have been deleted since the previous Full Deposit.

This section of the deposit

MUST NOT

 be present in Full Deposits.

5.1.4.  Child <contents> Element

For Full Deposits, this element contains all objects. For Diﬀerential Deposits, this element
contains the list of objects that have been added or modiﬁed since the previous deposit of any
type. For Incremental Deposits, this element contains the list of objects that have been added or
modiﬁed since the previous Full Deposit.

5.2.  Rebuilding the Registry from Data Escrow Deposits

When applying Incremental or Diﬀerential Deposits (when rebuilding the registry from data
escrow deposits), the relative order of the <deletes> and <contents> elements is important
because dependencies may exist between the objects. All of the <deletes> elements
applied ﬁrst, in the order in which they appear. All of the <contents> elements
next, in the order in which they appear.

 be
 be applied

MUST

MUST

If an object is present in the <contents> or <deletes> section of several deposits (e.g., Full and
Diﬀerential), the registry data from the latest deposit (as deﬁned by the Timeline Watermark)
SHOULD
either the <contents> or <deletes> elements in a single deposit.

 be used when rebuilding the registry. An object

 exist multiple times in

SHOULD NOT

When rebuilding a registry, the <deletes> section

MUST

 be ignored if present in a Full Deposit.

6.  Formal Syntax

RDE is speciﬁed in XML Schema notation. The formal syntax presented here is a complete
schema representation of RDE suitable for automated validation of RDE XML instances.

The <CODE BEGINS> and <CODE ENDS> tags are not part of the schema; they are used to note the
beginning and ending of the schema for URI registration purposes.

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

6.1.  RDE Schema

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

<CODE BEGINS>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<schema targetNamespace="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:rde-1.0"
  xmlns:rde="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:rde-1.0"
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
  elementFormDefault="qualified">

  <annotation>
    <documentation>
      Registry Data Escrow schema
    </documentation>
  </annotation>

  <!-- Root element -->
  <element name="deposit" type="rde:escrowDepositType"/>

  <!-- RDE types -->
  <complexType name="escrowDepositType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="watermark" type="dateTime"/>
      <element name="rdeMenu" type="rde:rdeMenuType"/>
      <element name="deletes" type="rde:deletesType" minOccurs="0"/>
      <element name="contents" type="rde:contentsType"
        minOccurs="0"/>
    </sequence>
    <attribute name="type" type="rde:depositTypeType"
      use="required"/>
    <attribute name="id" type="rde:depositIdType" use="required"/>
    <attribute name="prevId" type="rde:depositIdType"/>
    <attribute name="resend" type="unsignedShort" default="0"/>
  </complexType>

  <!-- Menu type -->
  <complexType name="rdeMenuType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="version" type="rde:versionType"/>
      <element name="objURI" type="anyURI" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>

  <!-- Deletes type -->
  <complexType name="deletesType">
    <sequence minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded">
      <element ref="rde:delete"/>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>

  <element name="delete" type="rde:deleteType" abstract="true"/>
  <complexType name="deleteType">
    <complexContent>
      <restriction base="anyType"/>
    </complexContent>
  </complexType>

  <!-- Contents type -->
  <complexType name="contentsType">
    <sequence minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded">

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

      <element ref="rde:content"/>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>

  <element name="content" type="rde:contentType" abstract="true"/>
  <complexType name="contentType">
    <complexContent>
      <restriction base="anyType"/>
    </complexContent>
  </complexType>

  <!-- Type of deposit -->
  <simpleType name="depositTypeType">
    <restriction base="token">
      <enumeration value="FULL"/>
      <enumeration value="INCR"/>
      <enumeration value="DIFF"/>
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>

  <!-- Deposit identifier type -->
  <simpleType name="depositIdType">
    <restriction base="token">
      <pattern value="\w{1,13}"/>
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>

  <!-- A RDE version number is a dotted pair of decimal numbers -->
  <simpleType name="versionType">
    <restriction base="token">
      <pattern value="[1-9]+\.[0-9]+"/>
      <enumeration value="1.0"/>
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>

</schema>
<CODE ENDS>

7.  Internationalization Considerations

Data escrow deposits are represented in XML, which provides native support for encoding
information using the Unicode character set and its more compact representations, including
UTF-8. Conformant XML processors recognize both UTF-8 and UTF-16. Though XML includes
provisions to identify and use other character encodings through the use of an "encoding"
attribute in an <?xml?> declaration, the use of UTF-8 is

RECOMMENDED

.

8.  IANA Considerations

This document uses URNs to describe XML namespaces and XML schemas conforming to a
registry mechanism described in
IANA.

. Two URI assignments have been registered by the

[RFC3688]

Registration for the RDE namespace:

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:rde-1.0

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

IESG

None. Namespace URIs do not represent an XML speciﬁcation.

Registration for the RDE XML schema:

URI:
Registrant Contact:

urn:ietf:params:xml:schema:rde-1.0
IESG

See Section 6 ("Formal Syntax") of this document.

9.  Security Considerations

This speciﬁcation does not deﬁne the security mechanisms to be used in the transmission of the
data escrow deposits, since it only speciﬁes the minimum necessary to enable the rebuilding of a
registry from deposits without intervention from the original registry.

Depending on local policies, some elements -- or, most likely, the whole deposit -- will be
considered conﬁdential. As such, the parties
encrypting the data at rest and in transit to avoid inadvertent disclosure of private data.
Regardless of the precautions taken by the parties regarding data at rest and in transit,
 be escrowed.
authentication credentials

 take all necessary precautions, such as

MUST NOT

SHOULD

Authentication of the parties passing data escrow deposit ﬁles is also of the utmost importance.
The escrow agent
 properly authenticate the identity of the registry before accepting data
escrow deposits. Similarly, the registry
submitting any data.

 authenticate the identity of the escrow agent before

MUST

MUST

Additionally, the registry and the escrow agent
ensure that the data transmitted is what the source intended. Validation of the contents by the
escrow agent is
 to ensure not only that the ﬁle was transmitted correctly from
the registry but also that the contents are "meaningful".

 use integrity-checking mechanisms to

RECOMMENDED

MUST

Note: If Transport Layer Security (TLS) is used when providing an escrow service,
the recommendations in

 be implemented.

[RFC7525] MUST

10.  Privacy Considerations

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a format that may be used to escrow personal data. The process of data
escrow is governed by a legal document agreed upon by the parties, and such a legal document
must ensure that privacy-sensitive and/or personal data receives the required protection.

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

11.  Example of a Full Deposit

Example of a Full Deposit with the two example objects rdeObj1 and rdeObj2:

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<rde:deposit
  xmlns:rde="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:rde-1.0"
  xmlns:rdeObj1="urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj1-1.0"
  xmlns:rdeObj2="urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj2-1.0"
  type="FULL"
  id="20191018001">
  <rde:watermark>2019-10-17T23:59:59Z</rde:watermark>
  <rde:rdeMenu>
    <rde:version>1.0</rde:version>
    <rde:objURI>urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj1-1.0</rde:objURI>
    <rde:objURI>urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj2-1.0</rde:objURI>
  </rde:rdeMenu>
  <rde:contents>
    <rdeObj1:rdeObj1>
      <rdeObj1:name>EXAMPLE</rdeObj1:name>
    </rdeObj1:rdeObj1>
    <rdeObj2:rdeObj2>
      <rdeObj2:id>fsh8013-EXAMPLE</rdeObj2:id>
    </rdeObj2:rdeObj2>
  </rde:contents>
</rde:deposit>

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

12.  Example of a Diﬀerential Deposit

Example of a Diﬀerential Deposit with the two example objects rdeObj1 and rdeObj2:

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<rde:deposit
  xmlns:rde="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:rde-1.0"
  xmlns:rdeObj1="urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj1-1.0"
  xmlns:rdeObj2="urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj2-1.0"
  type="DIFF"
  id="20191019001" prevId="20191018001">
  <rde:watermark>2019-10-18T23:59:59Z</rde:watermark>
  <rde:rdeMenu>
    <rde:version>1.0</rde:version>
      <rde:objURI>urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj1-1.0</rde:objURI>
      <rde:objURI>urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj2-1.0</rde:objURI>
  </rde:rdeMenu>
  <rde:contents>
    <rdeObj1:rdeObj1>
      <rdeObj1:name>EXAMPLE2</rdeObj1:name>
    </rdeObj1:rdeObj1>
    <rdeObj2:rdeObj2>
      <rdeObj2:id>sh8014-EXAMPLE</rdeObj2:id>
    </rdeObj2:rdeObj2>
  </rde:contents>
</rde:deposit>

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

13.  Example of an Incremental Deposit

Example of an Incremental Deposit with the two example objects rdeObj1 and rdeObj2:

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<rde:deposit
  xmlns:rde="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:rde-1.0"
  xmlns:rdeObj1="urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj1-1.0"
  xmlns:rdeObj2="urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj2-1.0"
  type="INCR"
  id="20200317001" prevId="20200314001">
  <rde:watermark>2020-03-16T23:59:59Z</rde:watermark>
  <rde:rdeMenu>
    <rde:version>1.0</rde:version>
    <rde:objURI>urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj1-1.0</rde:objURI>
    <rde:objURI>urn:example:params:xml:ns:rdeObj2-1.0</rde:objURI>
  </rde:rdeMenu>
  <rde:deletes>
    <rdeObj1:delete>
      <rdeObj1:name>EXAMPLE1</rdeObj1:name>
    </rdeObj1:delete>
    <rdeObj2:delete>
      <rdeObj2:id>fsh8013-EXAMPLE</rdeObj2:id>
    </rdeObj2:delete>
  </rde:deletes>
  <rde:contents>
    <rdeObj1:rdeObj1>
      <rdeObj1:name>EXAMPLE2</rdeObj1:name>
    </rdeObj1:rdeObj1>
    <rdeObj2:rdeObj2>
      <rdeObj2:id>sh8014-EXAMPLE</rdeObj2:id>
    </rdeObj2:rdeObj2>
  </rde:contents>
</rde:deposit>

14.  References

14.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3339]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Klyne, G. and C. Newman "Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps" RFC
,
3339 DOI 10.17487/RFC3339
rfc3339>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2002,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

[RFC8499]

Hoﬀman, P., Sullivan, A., and K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC
8499 DOI 10.17487/RFC8499
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc8499>

, January 2019,

,

,

,

.

[W3C.REC-xml-20081126]

Bray, T., Ed., Paoli, J., Ed., Sperberg-McQueen, C.M., Ed., Maler, E., Ed.,

and F. Yergeau, Ed. "Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Fifth Edition)"
REC-xml-20081126
xml-20081126/>

,
, November 2008,

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-

.

,

[W3C.REC-xmlschema-1-20041028]

Thompson, H.S., Ed., Beech, D., Ed., Maloney, M., Ed., and N.

,

Mendelsohn, Ed. "XML Schema Part 1: Structures Second Edition" REC-
xmlschema-1-20041028
xmlschema-1-20041028/>

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-

, October 2004,

,

.

[W3C.REC-xmlschema-2-20041028]

Datatypes Second Edition" REC-xmlschema-2-20041028
,
www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-xmlschema-2-20041028/>

.

Biron, P. V., Ed. and A. Malhotra, Ed. "XML Schema Part 2:
<https://

, October 2004,

,

14.2.  Informative References

[ICANN-GTLD-RA-20170731]

ICANN "Base Registry Agreement"

,

, 31 July 2017,

<https://

newgtlds.icann.org/sites/default/ﬁles/agreements/agreement-approved-31jul17-
en.pdf>

.

[RFC3688]

[RFC7525]

,
Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
January 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>

,
.

,

,

,

,
Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgments

,

Special suggestions that were incorporated into this document were provided by
Edward Lewis Jaap Akkerhuis Lawrence Conroy Marc Groeneweg Michael Young Chris
Wright Patrick Mevzek Stephen Morris Scott Hollenbeck Stephane Bortzmeyer Warren
Kumari Paul Hoﬀman Vika Mpisane Bernie Hoeneisen Jim Galvin Andrew Sullivan Hiro
Hotta Christopher Browne Daniel Kalchev David Conrad James Mitchell Francisco Obispo
Bhadresh Modi

Alexander Mayrhofer

, and

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

James Gould

,

 and

Shoji Noguchi
noguchi-registry-data-escrow (the precursor to this document) and provided invaluable support
for this document.

 participated as coauthors through version 07 of draft-arias-

Francisco Arias

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8909

Registry Data Escrow

November 2020

Author's Address

Gustavo Lozano
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
12025 Waterfront Drive, Suite 300
Los Angeles CA 90292
,
United States of America
 +1.310.823.9358
Phone:
 gustavo.lozano@icann.org
Email:

Lozano

Standards Track

Page 16

