Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8838
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
E. Ivov
8x8 / Jitsi

P. Saint-Andre
Mozilla

J. Uberti
Google

RFC 8838
Trickle ICE: Incremental Provisioning of Candidates
for the Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)
Protocol

Abstract

This document describes "Trickle ICE", an extension to the Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE) protocol that enables ICE agents to begin connectivity checks while they are
still gathering candidates, by incrementally exchanging candidates over time instead of all at
once. This method can considerably accelerate the process of establishing a communication
session.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8838

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Determining Support for Trickle ICE

4.  Generating the Initial ICE Description

5.  Handling the Initial ICE Description and Generating the Initial ICE Response

6.  Handling the Initial ICE Response

7.  Forming Checklists

8.  Performing Connectivity Checks

9.  Gathering and Conveying Newly Gathered Local Candidates

10. Pairing Newly Gathered Local Candidates

11. Receiving Trickled Candidates

12. Inserting Trickled Candidate Pairs into a Checklist

13. Generating an End-of-Candidates Indication

14. Receiving an End-of-Candidates Indication

15. Subsequent Exchanges and ICE Restarts

16. Half Trickle

17. Preserving Candidate Order While Trickling

18. Requirements for Using Protocols

19. IANA Considerations

20. Security Considerations

21. References

21.1.  Normative References

21.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Interaction with Regular ICE

Appendix B.  Interaction with ICE-Lite

Acknowledgements

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) protocol
gathers candidates, exchanges candidates with a peer ICE agent, and creates candidate pairs.
Once the pairs have been gathered, the ICE agent will perform connectivity checks and
eventually nominate and select pairs that will be used for sending and receiving data within a
communication session.

 describes how an ICE agent

[RFC8445]

[RFC8445]

Following the procedures in
communication sessions, because candidate gathering often involves querying Session Traversal
Utilities for NAT (STUN) servers
 and allocating relayed candidates on Traversal Using
Relay NAT (TURN) servers
parallel, the pacing requirements from

 can lead to somewhat lengthy establishment times for

. Although many ICE procedures can be completed in

 still need to be followed.

[RFC5389]

[RFC5766]

[RFC8445]

This document deﬁnes "Trickle ICE", a supplementary mode of ICE operation in which candidates
can be exchanged incrementally as soon as they become available (and simultaneously with the
gathering of other candidates). Connectivity checks can also start as soon as candidate pairs have
been created. Because Trickle ICE enables candidate gathering and connectivity checks to be
done in parallel, the method can considerably accelerate the process of establishing a
communication session.

This document also deﬁnes how to discover support for Trickle ICE, how the procedures in
[RFC8445]
can interoperate with an ICE agent compliant to

 are modiﬁed or supplemented when using Trickle ICE, and how a Trickle ICE agent

.
[RFC8445]

[RFC8840]

This document does not deﬁne any protocol-speciﬁc usage of Trickle ICE. Instead, protocol-
speciﬁc details for Trickle ICE are deﬁned in separate usage documents. Examples of such
documents are
[RFC3261]
usage with the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP)
of the examples in the document use SDP and the Oﬀer/Answer model
underlying concepts.

 (which deﬁnes usage with the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)

 and the Session Description Protocol (SDP)

 (which deﬁnes
). However, some
 to explain the

[XEP-0176]

[RFC6120]

[RFC3264]

[RFC4566]

) and

The following diagram illustrates a successful Trickle ICE exchange with a using protocol that
follows the Oﬀer/Answer model:

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

        Alice                                            Bob
          |                     Offer                     |
          |---------------------------------------------->|
          |            Additional Candidates              |
          |---------------------------------------------->|
          |                     Answer                    |
          |<----------------------------------------------|
          |            Additional Candidates              |
          |<----------------------------------------------|
          | Additional Candidates and Connectivity Checks |
          |<--------------------------------------------->|
          |<========== CONNECTION ESTABLISHED ===========>|

Figure 1: Flow

The main body of this document is structured to describe the behavior of Trickle ICE agents in
roughly the order of operations and interactions during an ICE session:

1.

Determining support for Trickle ICE

2.

Generating the initial ICE description

3.

Handling the initial ICE description and generating the initial ICE response

4.

Handling the initial ICE response

5.

Forming checklists, pruning candidates, performing connectivity checks, etc.

6.

Gathering and conveying candidates after the initial ICE description and response

7.

Handling inbound trickled candidates

8.

Generating and handling the end-of-candidates indication

9.

Handling ICE restarts

There is quite a bit of operational experience with the technique behind Trickle ICE, going back
as far as 2005 (when the XMPP Jingle extension deﬁned a "dribble mode" as speciﬁed in
[XEP-0176]
deployed the technique over the years.

); this document incorporates feedback from those who have implemented and

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This speciﬁcation makes use of all terminology deﬁned for Interactive Connectivity
Establishment in

. In addition, it deﬁnes the following terms:

[RFC8445]

Empty Checklist:

A checklist that initially does not contain any candidate pairs because they

will be incrementally added as they are trickled. (This scenario does not arise with a regular
ICE agent, because all candidate pairs are known when the agent creates the checklist set.)

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

Full Trickle:

The typical mode of operation for Trickle ICE agents, in which the initial ICE

description can include any number of candidates (even zero candidates) and does not need
to include a full generation of candidates as in half trickle.

Generation:

All of the candidates conveyed within an ICE session (correlated with a particular

Username Fragment and Password combination).

Half Trickle:

A Trickle ICE mode of operation in which the initiator gathers a full generation of
candidates strictly before creating and conveying the initial ICE description. Once conveyed,
this candidate information can be processed by regular ICE agents, which do not require
support for Trickle ICE. It also allows Trickle-ICE-capable responders to still gather candidates
and perform connectivity checks in a non-blocking way, thus providing roughly "half" the
advantages of Trickle ICE. The half-trickle mechanism is mostly meant for use when the
responder's support for Trickle ICE cannot be conﬁrmed prior to conveying the initial ICE
description.

ICE Description:

Any attributes related to the ICE session (other than candidates) required to

conﬁgure an ICE agent. These include but are not limited to the Username Fragment, the
Password, and other attributes.

Trickled Candidates:

Candidates that a Trickle ICE agent conveys after conveying or responding

to the initial ICE description, but within the same ICE session. Trickled candidates can be
conveyed in parallel with candidate gathering and connectivity checks.

Trickling:

The act of incrementally conveying trickled candidates.

3.  Determining Support for Trickle ICE

To fully support Trickle ICE, using protocols
mechanisms so that implementations can determine whether Trickle ICE is supported:

 incorporate one of the following

SHOULD

1.

Provide a capabilities discovery method so that agents can verify support of Trickle ICE prior
to initiating a session (XMPP's

Service Discovery [XEP-0030]

 is one such mechanism).

2.

Make support for Trickle ICE mandatory so that user agents can assume support.

If a using protocol does not provide a method of determining ahead of time whether Trickle ICE
is supported, agents can make use of the half-trickle procedure described in Section 16.

Prior to conveying the initial ICE description, agents that implement using protocols that support
capabilities discovery can attempt to verify whether or not the remote party supports Trickle
ICE. If an agent determines that the remote party does not support Trickle ICE, it
to using regular ICE or abandon the entire session.

 fall back

MUST

Even if a using protocol does not include a capabilities discovery method, a user agent can
provide an indication within the ICE description that it supports Trickle ICE by communicating
an ICE option of 'trickle'. This token
stream level, for every data stream (an agent

 be provided either at the session level or, if at the data
 specify Trickle ICE support for some data

MUST NOT

MUST

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

streams but not others). Note: The encoding of the 'trickle' ICE option, and the message(s) used to
carry it to the peer, are protocol speciﬁc; for instance, the encoding for SDP
 is deﬁned
in

[RFC4566]

[RFC8840]

.

Dedicated discovery semantics and half trickle are needed only prior to initiation of an ICE
session. After an ICE session is established and Trickle ICE support is conﬁrmed for both parties,
either agent can use full trickle for subsequent exchanges (see also Section 15).

4.  Generating the Initial ICE Description

An ICE agent can start gathering candidates as soon as it has an indication that communication is
imminent (e.g., a user-interface cue or an explicit request to initiate a communication session).
Unlike in regular ICE, in Trickle ICE implementations do not need to gather candidates in a
blocking manner. Therefore, unless half trickle is being used, the user experience is improved if
the initiating agent generates and transmits its initial ICE description as early as possible (thus
enabling the remote party to start gathering and trickling candidates).

MAY

 include any mix of candidates when conveying the initial ICE description. This

An initiator
includes the possibility of conveying all the candidates the initiator plans to use (as in half
trickle), conveying only a publicly reachable IP address (e.g., a candidate at a data relay that is
known to not be behind a ﬁrewall), or conveying no candidates at all (in which case the initiator
can obtain the responder's initial candidate list sooner, and the responder can begin candidate
gathering more quickly).

For candidates included in the initial ICE description, the methods for calculating priorities and
foundations, determining redundancy of candidates, and the like work just as in regular ICE
.
[RFC8445]

5.  Handling the Initial ICE Description and Generating the
Initial ICE Response

When a responder receives the initial ICE description, it will ﬁrst check if the ICE description or
initiator indicates support for Trickle ICE as explained in Section 3. If not, the responder
MUST
 (or, if no ICE
process the initial ICE description according to regular ICE procedures
support is detected at all, according to relevant processing rules for the using protocol, such as
Oﬀer/Answer processing rules
responder will automatically assume support for regular ICE as well.

). However, if support for Trickle ICE is conﬁrmed, a

[RFC3264]

[RFC8445]

If the initial ICE description indicates support for Trickle ICE, the responder will determine its
role and start gathering and prioritizing candidates; while doing so, it will also respond by
conveying an initial ICE response, so that both the initiator and the responder can form
checklists and begin connectivity checks.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

A responder can respond to the initial ICE description at any point while gathering candidates.
The initial ICE response
 contain any set of candidates, including all candidates or no
candidates. (The beneﬁt of including no candidates is to convey the initial ICE response as
quickly as possible, so that both parties can consider the ICE session to be under active
negotiation as soon as possible.)

MAY

As noted in Section 3, in using protocols that use SDP, the initial ICE response can indicate
support for Trickle ICE by including a token of 'trickle' in the ice-options attribute.

6.  Handling the Initial ICE Response

When processing the initial ICE response, the initiator follows regular ICE procedures to
determine its role, after which it forms checklists (Section 7) and performs connectivity checks
(Section 8).

7.  Forming Checklists

[RFC8445]

, in order for candidate pairing to be possible and

According to regular ICE procedures
for redundant candidates to be pruned, the candidates would need to be provided in the initial
ICE description and initial ICE response. By contrast, under Trickle ICE, checklists can be empty
until candidates are conveyed or received. Therefore, a Trickle ICE agent handles checklist
formation and candidate pairing in a slightly diﬀerent way than a regular ICE agent: the agent
still forms the checklists, but it populates a given checklist only after it actually has candidate
pairs for that checklist. Every checklist is initially placed in the Running state, even if the
checklist is empty (this is consistent with

Section 6.1.2.1 of [RFC8445]

).

8.  Performing Connectivity Checks

[RFC8445]

, whenever timer Ta ﬁres, only checklists in the Running state will be

As speciﬁed in
picked when scheduling connectivity checks for candidate pairs. Therefore, a Trickle ICE agent
 keep each checklist in the Running state as long as it expects candidate pairs to be
MUST
incrementally added to the checklist. After that, the checklist state is set according to the
procedures in

[RFC8445]

.

Whenever timer Ta ﬁres and an empty checklist is picked, no action is performed for the list.
Without waiting for timer Ta to expire again, the agent selects the next checklist in the Running
state, in accordance with

.
Section 6.1.4.2 of [RFC8445]

Section 7.2.5.4 of [RFC8445]
completing a connectivity check transaction. During such an update, regular ICE agents would
set the state of a checklist to Failed if both of the following two conditions are satisﬁed:

 requires that agents update checklists and timer states upon

•

all of the pairs in the checklist are in either the Failed state or the Succeeded state; and

•

there is not a pair in the valid list for each component of the data stream.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

With Trickle ICE, the above situation would often occur when candidate gathering and trickling
are still in progress, even though it is quite possible that future checks will succeed. For this
reason, Trickle ICE agents add the following conditions to the above list:

•

all candidate gathering has completed, and the agent is not expecting to discover any new
local candidates; and

•

the remote agent has conveyed an end-of-candidates indication for that checklist as
described in Section 13.

9.  Gathering and Conveying Newly Gathered Local Candidates

After Trickle ICE agents have conveyed initial ICE descriptions and initial ICE responses, they will
most likely continue gathering new local candidates as STUN, TURN, and other non-host
candidate gathering mechanisms begin to yield results. Whenever an agent discovers such a new
candidate, it will compute its priority, type, foundation, and component ID according to regular
ICE procedures.

The new candidate is then checked for redundancy against the existing list of local candidates. If
its transport address and base match those of an existing candidate, it will be considered
redundant and will be ignored. This would often happen for server-reﬂexive candidates that
match the host addresses they were obtained from (e.g., when the latter are public IPv4
addresses). Contrary to regular ICE, Trickle ICE agents will consider the new candidate
redundant regardless of its priority.

Next, the agent "trickles" the newly discovered candidate(s) to the remote agent. The actual
delivery of the new candidates is handled by a using protocol such as SIP or XMPP. Trickle ICE
imposes no restrictions on the way this is done (e.g., some using protocols might choose not to
trickle updates for server-reﬂexive candidates and instead rely on the discovery of peer-reﬂexive
ones).

When candidates are trickled, the using protocol
candidates indication as described in Section 13) to the receiving Trickle ICE implementation
exactly once and in the same order it was conveyed. If the using protocol provides any candidate
retransmissions, they need to be hidden from the ICE implementation.

 deliver each candidate (and any end-of-

MUST

Also, candidate trickling needs to be correlated to a speciﬁc ICE session, so that if there is an ICE
restart, any delayed updates for a previous session can be recognized as such and ignored by the
receiving party. For example, using protocols that signal candidates via SDP might include a
Username Fragment value in the corresponding a=candidate line, such as:

  a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706431 2001:db8::1 5000 typ host ufrag 8hhY

Or, as another example, WebRTC implementations might include a Username Fragment in the
JavaScript objects that represent candidates.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

Note: The using protocol needs to provide a mechanism for both parties to indicate and agree on
the ICE session in force (as identiﬁed by the Username Fragment and Password combination), so
that they have a consistent view of which candidates are to be paired. This is especially
important in the case of ICE restarts (see Section 15).

Note: A using protocol might prefer not to trickle server-reﬂexive candidates to entities that are
known to be publicly accessible and where sending a direct STUN binding request is likely to
reach the destination faster than the trickle update that travels through the signaling path.

10.  Pairing Newly Gathered Local Candidates

As a Trickle ICE agent gathers local candidates, it needs to form candidate pairs; this works as
described in the ICE speciﬁcation

, with the following provisos:

[RFC8445]

1.

A Trickle ICE agent
party.

MUST NOT

 pair a local candidate until it has been trickled to the remote

2.

Once the agent has conveyed the local candidate to the remote party, the agent checks if any
remote candidates are currently known for this same stream and component. If not, the
agent merely adds the new candidate to the list of local candidates (without pairing it).

3.

Otherwise, if the agent has already learned of one or more remote candidates for this stream
and component, it attempts to pair the new local candidate as described in the ICE
speciﬁcation

[RFC8445]

.

4.

If a newly formed pair has a local candidate whose type is server-reﬂexive, the agent
MUST
replace the local candidate with its base before completing the relevant redundancy tests.

5.

6.

The agent prunes redundant pairs by following the rules in
checks existing pairs only if they have a state of Waiting or Frozen; this avoids removal of
pairs for which connectivity checks are in ﬂight (a state of In‑Progress) or for which
connectivity checks have already yielded a deﬁnitive result (a state of Succeeded or Failed).

Section 6.1.2.4 of [RFC8445]

 but

If, after completing the relevant redundancy tests, the checklist where the pair is to be added
),
already contains the maximum number of candidate pairs (100 by default as per
the agent
there are no such pairs, the agent
pair in order to make room for the new pair, until the number of pairs is equal to the
maximum number of pairs. This processing is consistent with

 discard any pairs in the Failed state to make room for the new pair. If

 discard a pair with a lower priority than the new

Section 6.1.2.5 of [RFC8445]

[RFC8445]

SHOULD

SHOULD

.

11.  Receiving Trickled Candidates

At any time during an ICE session, a Trickle ICE agent might receive new candidates from the
remote agent, from which it will attempt to form a candidate pair; this works as described in the
ICE speciﬁcation

, with the following provisos:

[RFC8445]

1.

The agent checks if any local candidates are currently known for this same stream and
component. If not, the agent merely adds the new candidate to the list of remote candidates
(without pairing it).

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

2.

Otherwise, if the agent has already gathered one or more local candidates for this stream
and component, it attempts to pair the new remote candidate as described in the ICE
speciﬁcation

[RFC8445]

.

3.

If a newly formed pair has a local candidate whose type is server-reﬂexive, the agent
replace the local candidate with its base before completing the redundancy check in the next
step.

MUST

4.

The agent prunes redundant pairs as described below but checks existing pairs only if they
have a state of Waiting or Frozen; this avoids removal of pairs for which connectivity checks
are in ﬂight (a state of In-Progress) or for which connectivity checks have already yielded a
deﬁnitive result (a state of Succeeded or Failed).

A.

If the agent ﬁnds a redundancy between two pairs and one of those pairs contains a newly
received remote candidate whose type is peer-reﬂexive, the agent
 discard the pair
containing that candidate, set the priority of the existing pair to the priority of the
discarded pair, and re-sort the checklist. (This policy helps to eliminate problems with
remote peer-reﬂexive candidates for which a STUN Binding request is received before
signaling of the candidate is trickled to the receiving agent, such as a diﬀerent view of pair
priorities between the local agent and the remote agent, because the same candidate could
be perceived as peer-reﬂexive by one agent and as server-reﬂexive by the other agent.)

SHOULD

B.

The agent then applies the rules deﬁned in

Section 6.1.2.4 of [RFC8445]

.

5.

If, after completing the relevant redundancy tests, the checklist where the pair is to be added
),
already contains the maximum number of candidate pairs (100 by default as per
the agent
there are no such pairs, the agent
pair in order to make room for the new pair, until the number of pairs is equal to the
maximum number of pairs. This processing is consistent with

 discard any pairs in the Failed state to make room for the new pair. If

 discard a pair with a lower priority than the new

Section 6.1.2.5 of [RFC8445]

[RFC8445]

SHOULD

SHOULD

.

12.  Inserting Trickled Candidate Pairs into a Checklist

After a local agent has trickled a candidate and formed a candidate pair from that local
candidate (Section 9), or after a remote agent has received a trickled candidate and formed a
candidate pair from that remote candidate (Section 11), a Trickle ICE agent adds the new
candidate pair to a checklist as deﬁned in this section.

As an aid to understanding the procedures deﬁned in this section, consider the following tabular
representation of all checklists in an agent (note that initially for one of the foundations, i.e., f5,
there are no candidate pairs):

f1

f2

f3

f4

f5

s1 (Audio.RTP)

s2 (Audio.RTCP)

s3 (Video.RTP)

F

F

F

F

F

F

F

F

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

f1

f2

f3

f4

f5

s4 (Video.RTCP)

F

Table 1: Example of Checklist State

Each row in the table represents a component for a given data stream (e.g., s1 and s2 might be
the RTP and RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) components for audio) and thus a single checklist in the
checklist set. Each column represents one foundation. Each cell represents one candidate pair. In
the tables shown in this section, "F" stands for "frozen", "W" stands for "waiting", and "S" stands
for "succeeded"; in addition, "^^" is used to notate newly added candidate pairs.

When an agent commences ICE processing, in accordance with
each foundation it will unfreeze the pair with the lowest component ID and, if the component IDs
are equal, with the highest priority (this is the topmost candidate pair in every column). This
initial state is shown in the following table.

Section 6.1.2.6 of [RFC8445]

, for

f1

f2

f3

f4

f5

s1 (Audio.RTP)

W W W

F

F W

s2 (Audio.RTCP)

s3 (Video.RTP)

s4 (Video.RTCP)

F

F

F

Table 2: Initial Checklist State

Then, as the checks proceed (see
Succeeded state (denoted here by "S"), the agent will unfreeze all pairs for all data streams with
the same foundation (e.g., if the pair in column 1, row 1 succeeds then the agent will unfreeze the
pairs in column 1, rows 2, 3, and 4).

), for each pair that enters the

Section 7.2.5.4 of [RFC8445]

f1

f2

f3

f4

f5

s1 (Audio.RTP)

S W W

s2 (Audio.RTCP) W F

F W

s3 (Video.RTP)

W

s4 (Video.RTCP) W

Table 3: Checklist State with Succeeded
Candidate Pair

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

Trickle ICE preserves all of these rules as they apply to "static" checklist sets. This implies that if a
Trickle ICE agent were to begin connectivity checks with all of its pairs already present, the way
that pair states change is indistinguishable from that of a regular ICE agent.

Of course, the major diﬀerence with Trickle ICE is that checklist sets can be dynamically updated
because candidates can arrive after connectivity checks have started. When this happens, an
agent sets the state of the newly formed pair as described below.

Rule 1: If the newly formed pair has the lowest component ID and, if the component IDs are
equal, the highest priority of any candidate pair for this foundation (i.e., if it is the topmost pair
in the column), set the state to Waiting. For example, this would be the case if the newly formed
pair were placed in column 5, row 1. This rule is consistent with

.
Section 6.1.2.6 of [RFC8445]

f1

f2

f3

f4

f5

s1 (Audio.RTP)

S W W

^W^

s2 (Audio.RTCP) W F

F W

s3 (Video.RTP)

W

s4 (Video.RTCP) W

Table 4: Checklist State with Newly Formed Pair,
Rule 1

Rule 2: If there is at least one pair in the Succeeded state for this foundation, set the state to
Waiting. For example, this would be the case if the pair in column 5, row 1 succeeded and the
newly formed pair were placed in column 5, row 2. This rule is consistent with
of [RFC8445]

Section 7.2.5.3.3

.

f1

f2

f3

f4

f5

s1 (Audio.RTP)

S W W

S

s2 (Audio.RTCP) W F

F W ^W^

s3 (Video.RTP)

W

s4 (Video.RTCP) W

Table 5: Checklist State with Newly Formed Pair,
Rule 2

Rule 3: In all other cases, set the state to Frozen. For example, this would be the case if the newly
formed pair were placed in column 3, row 3.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

f1

f2

f3

f4

f5

s1 (Audio.RTP)

S W W

S

s2 (Audio.RTCP) W F

F

W W

s3 (Video.RTP)

W

^F^

s4 (Video.RTCP) W

Table 6: Checklist State with Newly Formed Pair,
Rule 3

13.  Generating an End-of-Candidates Indication

Once all candidate gathering is completed or expires for an ICE session associated with a speciﬁc
data stream, the agent will generate an "end-of-candidates" indication for that session and
convey it to the remote agent via the signaling channel. Although the exact form of the indication
depends on the using protocol, the indication
 specify the generation (Username Fragment
MUST
and Password combination), so that an agent can correlate the end-of-candidates indication with
a particular ICE session. The indication can be conveyed in the following ways:

•

As part of an initiation request (which would typically be the case with the initial ICE
description for half trickle)

•

Along with the last candidate an agent can send for a stream

•

As a standalone notiﬁcation (e.g., after STUN Binding requests or TURN Allocate requests to a
server time out and the agent is no longer actively gathering candidates)

Conveying an end-of-candidates indication in a timely manner is important in order to avoid
ambiguities and speed up the conclusion of ICE processing. In particular:

•

 convey an end-of-candidates indication after it has
A controlled Trickle ICE agent
completed gathering for a data stream, unless ICE processing terminates before the agent
has had a chance to complete gathering.

SHOULD

•

MAY

 conclude ICE processing prior to conveying end-of-candidates

A controlling agent
indications for all streams. However, it is
end-of-candidates indications whenever possible for the sake of consistency and to keep
middleboxes and controlled agents up-to-date on the state of ICE processing.

 for a controlling agent to convey

RECOMMENDED

When conveying an end-of-candidates indication during trickling (rather than as a part of the
initial ICE description or a response thereto), it is the responsibility of the using protocol to
deﬁne methods for associating the indication with one or more speciﬁc data streams.

MAY

 also choose to generate an end-of-candidates indication before candidate

An agent
gathering has actually completed, if the agent determines that gathering has continued for more
than an acceptable period of time. However, an agent
after it has conveyed an end-of-candidates indication.

 convey any more candidates

MUST NOT

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

When performing half trickle, an agent
with its initial ICE description unless it is planning to potentially trickle additional candidates
(e.g., in case the remote party turns out to support Trickle ICE).

 convey an end-of-candidates indication together

SHOULD

After an agent conveys the end-of-candidates indication, it will update the state of the
corresponding checklist as explained in Section 8. Past that point, an agent
MUST NOT
new candidates within this ICE session. Therefore, adding new candidates to the negotiation is
possible only through an ICE restart (see Section 15).

 trickle any

This speciﬁcation does not override regular ICE semantics for concluding ICE processing.
Therefore, even if end-of-candidates indications are conveyed, an agent will still need to go
through pair nomination. Also, if pairs have been nominated for components and data streams,
 still conclude even if end-of-candidates indications have not been received
ICE processing
MAY
for all streams. In all cases, an agent
after nomination of a candidate pair as described in

 trickle any new candidates within an ICE session

Section 8.1.1 of [RFC8445]

MUST NOT

.

14.  Receiving an End-of-Candidates Indication

Receiving an end-of-candidates indication enables an agent to update checklist states and, in case
valid pairs do not exist for every component in every data stream, determine that ICE processing
has failed. It also enables an agent to speed up the conclusion of ICE processing when a candidate
pair has been validated but uses a lower-preference transport such as TURN. In such situations,
 choose to wait and see if higher-priority candidates are received; in this
an implementation
case, the end-of-candidates indication provides a notiﬁcation that such candidates are not
forthcoming.

MAY

When an agent receives an end-of-candidates indication for a speciﬁc data stream, it will update
the state of the relevant checklist as per Section 8 (which might lead to some checklists being
marked as Failed). If the checklist is still in the Running state after the update, the agent will note
that an end-of-candidates indication has been received and take it into account in future updates
to the checklist.

After an agent has received an end-of-candidates indication, it
candidates for that data stream or data session.

MUST

 ignore any newly received

15.  Subsequent Exchanges and ICE Restarts

Before conveying an end-of-candidates indication, either agent
candidate information at any time allowed by the using protocol. When this happens, agents will
use semantics from
combination) to determine whether or not the new candidate information requires an ICE
restart.

 (e.g., checking of the Username Fragment and Password

 convey subsequent

[RFC8445]

MAY

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

If an ICE restart occurs, the agents can assume that Trickle ICE is still supported if support was
determined previously; thus, they can engage in Trickle ICE behavior as they would in an initial
exchange of ICE descriptions where support was determined through a capabilities discovery
method.

16.  Half Trickle

In half trickle, the initiator conveys the initial ICE description with a usable but not necessarily
full generation of candidates. This ensures that the ICE description can be processed by a regular
ICE responder and is mostly meant for use in cases where support for Trickle ICE cannot be
conﬁrmed prior to conveying the initial ICE description. The initial ICE description indicates
support for Trickle ICE, so that the responder can respond with something less than a full
generation of candidates and then trickle the rest. The initial ICE description for half trickle can
contain an end-of-candidates indication, although this is not mandatory because if trickle
support is conﬁrmed, then the initiator can choose to trickle additional candidates before it
conveys an end-of-candidates indication.

The half-trickle mechanism can be used in cases where there is no way for an agent to verify in
advance whether a remote party supports Trickle ICE. Because the initial ICE description
contains a full generation of candidates, it can thus be handled by a regular ICE agent, while still
allowing a Trickle ICE agent to use the optimization deﬁned in this speciﬁcation. This prevents
negotiation from failing in the former case while still giving roughly half the Trickle ICE beneﬁts
in the latter.

Use of half trickle is only necessary during an initial exchange of ICE descriptions. After both
parties have received an ICE description from their peer, they can each reliably determine
Trickle ICE support and use it for all subsequent exchanges (see Section 15).

In some instances, using half trickle might bring more than just half the improvement in terms of
user experience. This can happen when an agent starts gathering candidates upon user-interface
cues that the user will soon be initiating an interaction, such as activity on a keypad or the phone
going oﬀ hook. This would mean that some or all of the candidate gathering could be completed
before the agent actually needs to convey the candidate information. Because the responder will
be able to trickle candidates, both agents will be able to start connectivity checks and complete
ICE processing earlier than with regular ICE and potentially even as early as with full trickle.

However, such anticipation is not always possible. For example, a multipurpose user agent or a
WebRTC web page where communication is a non-central feature (e.g., calling a support line in
case of a problem with the main features) would not necessarily have a way of distinguishing
between call intentions and other user activity. In such cases, using full trickle is most likely to
result in an ideal user experience. Even so, using half trickle would be an improvement over
regular ICE because it would result in a better experience for responders.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

17.  Preserving Candidate Order While Trickling

One important aspect of regular ICE is that connectivity checks for a speciﬁc foundation and
component are attempted simultaneously by both agents, so that any ﬁrewalls or NATs fronting
the agents would whitelist both endpoints and allow all except for the ﬁrst ("suicide") packets to
go through. This is also important to unfreezing candidates at the right time. While not crucial,
preserving this behavior in Trickle ICE is likely to improve ICE performance.

To achieve this, when trickling candidates, agents
reﬂected by their component IDs; that is, candidates for a given component
conveyed prior to candidates for a component with a lower ID number within the same
foundation. In addition, candidates
the same order they are conveyed.

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD NOT

 be paired, following the procedures in Section 12, in

 respect the order of components as

 be

For example, the following SDP description contains two components (RTP and RTCP) and two
foundations (host and server-reﬂexive):

  v=0
  o=jdoe 2890844526 2890842807 IN IP4 10.0.1.1
  s=
  c=IN IP4 10.0.1.1
  t=0 0
  a=ice-pwd:asd88fgpdd777uzjYhagZg
  a=ice-ufrag:8hhY
  m=audio 5000 RTP/AVP 0
  a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
  a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706431 10.0.1.1 5000 typ host
  a=candidate:1 2 UDP 2130706431 10.0.1.1 5001 typ host
  a=candidate:2 1 UDP 1694498815 192.0.2.3 5000 typ srflx
      raddr 10.0.1.1 rport 8998
  a=candidate:2 2 UDP 1694498815 192.0.2.3 5001 typ srflx
      raddr 10.0.1.1 rport 8998

For this candidate information, the RTCP host candidate would not be conveyed prior to the RTP
host candidate. Similarly, the RTP server-reﬂexive candidate would be conveyed together with or
prior to the RTCP server-reﬂexive candidate.

18.  Requirements for Using Protocols

In order to fully enable the use of Trickle ICE, this speciﬁcation deﬁnes the following
requirements for using protocols.

•

A using protocol
Trickle ICE before an ICE session begins (see Section 3).

SHOULD

 provide a way for parties to advertise and discover support for

•

A using protocol
additional candidates after conveying the initial ICE description (see Section 9).

 provide methods for incrementally conveying (i.e., "trickling")

MUST

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

•

A using protocol
exactly once and in the same order it was conveyed (see Section 9).

 deliver each trickled candidate or end-of-candidates indication

MUST

•

A using protocol
session in force (see Section 9).

MUST

 provide a mechanism for both parties to indicate and agree on the ICE

•

A using protocol
indication, which
Section 13).

MUST

 provide a way for parties to communicate the end-of-candidates

MUST

 specify the particular ICE session to which the indication applies (see

19.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following ICE option in the "ICE Options" subregistry of the "Interactive
Connectivity Establishment (ICE) registry", following the procedures deﬁned in

[RFC6336]
.

ICE Option:

trickle

Contact:

IESG <iesg@ietf.org>

Change controller:

IESG

Description:

An ICE option of 'trickle' indicates support for incremental communication of ICE

candidates.

Reference:

RFC 8838

20.  Security Considerations

This speciﬁcation inherits most of its semantics from
considerations described there apply to Trickle ICE.

[RFC8445]

, and as a result, all security

If the privacy implications of revealing host addresses on an endpoint device are a concern (see,
), agents can generate ICE
for example, the discussion in
descriptions that contain no candidates and then only trickle candidates that do not reveal host
addresses (e.g., relayed candidates).

Section 19 of [RFC8445]

[RFC8828]

 and in

21.  References

21.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

[RFC8445]

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

21.2.  Informative References

[RFC1918]

[RFC3261]

[RFC3264]

[RFC4566]

[RFC4787]

[RFC5389]

[RFC5766]

[RFC6120]

[RFC6336]

Rekhter, Y., Moskowitz, B., Karrenberg, D., de Groot, G. J., and E. Lear "Address
,
Allocation for Private Internets" BCP 5 RFC 1918 DOI 10.17487/RFC1918
February 1996,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1918>

,

,

.

,

,

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R.,
Handley, M., and E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
10.17487/RFC3261

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
, June 2002,

,
.

,

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

,

,

,

.

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Audet, F., Ed. and C. Jennings "Network Address Translation (NAT) Behavioral
Requirements for Unicast UDP" BCP 127 RFC 4787 DOI 10.17487/RFC4787
January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4787>

,

,

,

.

,

,

Rosenberg, J., Mahy, R., Matthews, P., and D. Wing "Session Traversal Utilities for
,
NAT (STUN)" RFC 5389 DOI 10.17487/RFC5389
.
editor.org/info/rfc5389>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2008,

,

,

Mahy, R., Matthews, P., and J. Rosenberg "Traversal Using Relays around NAT
(TURN): Relay Extensions to Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN)" RFC
,
5766 DOI 10.17487/RFC5766
rfc5766>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, April 2010,

,

.

,

,

Saint-Andre, P. "Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): Core" RFC
,
6120 DOI 10.17487/RFC6120
rfc6120>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

.

,

,
Westerlund, M. and C. Perkins "IANA Registry for Interactive Connectivity
, July 2011,
,
Establishment (ICE) Options" RFC 6336 DOI 10.17487/RFC6336
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6336>

,

.

[RFC8828]

,
,
Uberti, J. and G. Shieh "WebRTC IP Address Handling Requirements" RFC 8828
, January 2021,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8828>
DOI 10.17487/RFC8828

,

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

[RFC8840]

[XEP-0030]

[XEP-0176]

Ivov, E., Stach, T., Marocco, E., and C. Holmberg "A Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) Usage for Incremental Provisioning of Candidates for the Interactive
Connectivity Establishment (Trickle ICE)" RFC 8840 DOI 10.17487/RFC8840
January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8840>

,

,

,

.

,

Hildebrand, J., Millard, P., Eatmon, R., and P. Saint-Andre "XEP-0030: Service
Discovery" XMPP Standards Foundation, XEP-0030

,
, June 2008.

,

Beda, J., Ludwig, S., Saint-Andre, P., Hildebrand, J., Egan, S., and R. McQueen
,
"XEP-0176: Jingle ICE-UDP Transport Method" XMPP Standards Foundation,
XEP-0176

, June 2009.

,

Appendix A.  Interaction with Regular ICE

The ICE protocol was designed to be ﬂexible enough to work in and adapt to as many network
environments as possible. Despite that ﬂexibility, ICE as speciﬁed in
support Trickle ICE. This section describes how trickling of candidates interacts with ICE.

 does not by itself

[RFC8445]

 describes the conditions required to update checklists and timer states while an ICE

[RFC8445]
agent is in the Running state. These conditions are veriﬁed upon transaction completion, and one
of them stipulates that:

if there is not a valid pair in the valid list for each component of the data stream
associated with the checklist, the state of the checklist is set to Failed.

This could be a problem and cause ICE processing to fail prematurely in a number of scenarios.
Consider the following case:

1.

Alice and Bob are both located in diﬀerent networks with Network Address Translation
(NAT). Alice and Bob themselves have diﬀerent addresses, but both networks use the same
private internet block (e.g., the "20-bit block" 172.16/12 speciﬁed in

[RFC1918]

).

2.

Alice conveys to Bob the candidate 172.16.0.1, which also happens to correspond to an
existing host on Bob's network.

3.

Bob creates a candidate pair from his host candidate and 172.16.0.1, puts this one pair into a
checklist, and starts checks.

4.

These checks reach the host at 172.16.0.1 in Bob's network, which responds with an ICMP
"port unreachable" error; per

, Bob marks the transaction as Failed.

[RFC8445]

At this point, the checklist only contains a Failed pair, and the valid list is empty. This causes the
data stream and potentially all ICE processing to fail, even though Trickle ICE agents can
subsequently convey candidates that could succeed.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

A similar race condition would occur if the initial ICE description from Alice contains only
candidates that can be determined as unreachable from any of the candidates that Bob has
gathered (e.g., this would be the case if Bob's candidates only contain IPv4 addresses and the ﬁrst
candidate that he receives from Alice is an IPv6 one).

Another potential problem could arise when a non-Trickle ICE implementation initiates an
interaction with a Trickle ICE implementation. Consider the following case:

1.

Alice's client has a non-Trickle ICE implementation.

2.

Bob's client has support for Trickle ICE.

3.

Alice and Bob are behind NATs with address-dependent ﬁltering

[RFC4787]

.

4.

Bob has two STUN servers, but one of them is currently unreachable.

After Bob's agent receives Alice's initial ICE description, it would immediately start connectivity
checks. It would also start gathering candidates, which would take a long time because of the
unreachable STUN server. By the time Bob's answer is ready and conveyed to Alice, Bob's
connectivity checks might have failed: until Alice gets Bob's answer, she won't be able to start
connectivity checks and punch holes in her NAT. The NAT would hence be ﬁltering Bob's checks
as originating from an unknown endpoint.

Appendix B.  Interaction with ICE-Lite

The behavior of ICE-lite agents that are capable of Trickle ICE does not require any particular
rules other than those already deﬁned in this speciﬁcation and
provided only for informational purposes.

. This section is hence

[RFC8445]

 and would indicate
An ICE-lite agent would generate candidate information as per
support for Trickle ICE. Given that the candidate information will contain a full generation of
candidates, it would also be accompanied by an end-of-candidates indication.

[RFC8445]

When performing full trickle, a full ICE implementation could convey the initial ICE description
or response thereto with no candidates. After receiving a response that identiﬁes the remote
agent as an ICE-lite implementation, the initiator can choose to not trickle any additional
candidates. The same is also true in the case when the ICE-lite agent initiates the interaction and
the full ICE agent is the responder. In these cases, the connectivity checks would be enough for
the ICE-lite implementation to discover all potentially useful candidates as peer-reﬂexive. The
following example illustrates one such ICE session using SDP syntax:

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

        ICE-Lite                                          Bob
         Agent
           |   Offer (a=ice-lite a=ice-options:trickle)    |
           |---------------------------------------------->|
           |                                               |no cand
           |         Answer (a=ice-options:trickle)        |trickling
           |<----------------------------------------------|
           |              Connectivity Checks              |
           |<--------------------------------------------->|
  peer rflx|                                               |
 cand disco|                                               |
           |<========== CONNECTION ESTABLISHED ===========>|

Figure 2: Example

In addition to reducing signaling traﬃc, this approach also removes the need to discover STUN
Bindings or make TURN allocations, which can considerably lighten ICE processing.

Acknowledgements

,

,

,

Bernard Aboba Flemming Andreasen Rajmohan Banavi Taylor

The authors would like to thank
Brandstetter Philipp Hancke Christer Holmberg Ari Keränen Paul Kyzivat Jonathan Lennox
,
Enrico Marocco Pal Martinsen Nils Ohlmeier Thomas Stach Peter Thatcher Martin Thomson
,
,
Brandon Williams
Sarah Banks Roni Even
document.
security reviews, respectively. Thanks also to
chairs and

,
 for their reviews and suggestions on improving this

 completed OPSDIR, GenART, and
 in their role as

Dale Worley
, and
,

 in his role as responsible Area Director.

David Mandelberg

Peter Thatcher

Ben Campbell

Ari Keränen

, and

 and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Emil Ivov
8x8, Inc. / Jitsi
675 Creekside Way
Campbell CA 95008
,
United States of America
 +1 512 420 6968
Phone:
Email:
 emcho@jitsi.org

Justin Uberti
Google
747 6th Street S
Kirkland WA 98033
,
United States of America
 +1 857 288 8888
Phone:
 justin@uberti.name
Email:

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8838

Trickle ICE

January 2021

,

Peter Saint-Andre
Mozilla
P.O. Box 787
Parker CO 80134
United States of America
 +1 720 256 6756
Phone:
 stpeter@mozilla.com
Email:
URI:
 https://www.mozilla.com/

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

