Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8797
8166
Standards Track
June 2020
2070-1721
C. Lever
Oracle

RFC 8797
Remote Direct Memory Access - Connection Manager
(RDMA-CM) Private Data for RPC-over-RDMA Version
1

Abstract

This document speciﬁes the format of Remote Direct Memory Access - Connection Manager
(RDMA-CM) Private Data exchanged between RPC-over-RDMA version 1 peers as part of
establishing a connection. The addition of the Private Data payload speciﬁed in this document is
an optional extension that does not alter the RPC-over-RDMA version 1 protocol. This document
updates RFC 8166.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8797

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Lever

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8797

RPC-over-RDMA CM Private Data

June 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Advertised Transport Properties

3.1.  Inline Threshold Size

3.2.  Remote Invalidation

4.  Private Data Message Format

4.1.  Using the R Field

4.2.  Send and Receive Size Values

5.  Interoperability Considerations

5.1.  Interoperability with RPC-over-RDMA Version 1 Implementations

5.2.  Interoperability amongst RDMA Transports

6.  Updating the Message Format

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Guidance for Designated Experts

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

Lever

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8797

RPC-over-RDMA CM Private Data

June 2020

1.  Introduction

The RPC-over-RDMA version 1 transport protocol
Remote Direct Memory Access (RDMA) for upper-layer protocols based on Remote Procedure
Calls (RPCs)
[RFC5531]
Placement" (DDP) are introduced in

. The terms "Remote Direct Memory Access" (RDMA) and "Direct Data

 enables payload data transfer using

[RFC8166]

[RFC5040]

.

The two most immediate shortcomings of RPC-over-RDMA version 1 are as follows:

1.

Setting up an RDMA data transfer (via RDMA Read or Write) can be costly. The small default
size of messages transmitted using RDMA Send forces the use of RDMA Read or Write
operations even for relatively small messages and data payloads.

The original speciﬁcation of RPC-over-RDMA version 1 provided an out-of-band protocol for
passing inline threshold values between connected peers
eliminated support for this protocol, making it unavailable for this purpose.

. However,

[RFC5666]

[RFC8166]

2.

Unlike most other contemporary RDMA-enabled storage protocols, there is no facility in RPC-
over-RDMA version 1 that enables the use of remote invalidation

[RFC5042]

.

[RFC4506]

Each RPC-over-RDMA version 1 Transport Header follows the External Data Representation
(XDR) deﬁnition
means of extending this deﬁnition in such a way that interoperability with existing
implementations is preserved. As a result, an out-of-band mechanism is needed to help relieve
these constraints for existing RPC-over-RDMA version 1 implementations.

. However, RPC-over-RDMA version 1 has no

 speciﬁed in

[RFC8166]

This document speciﬁes a simple, non-XDR-based message format designed to be passed between
RPC-over-RDMA version 1 peers at the time each RDMA transport connection is ﬁrst established.
The mechanism assumes that the underlying RDMA transport has a Private Data ﬁeld that is
passed between peers at connection time, such as is present in the Marker PDU Aligned Framing
(MPA) protocol (described in
InﬁniBand Connection Manager

Section 7.1 of [RFC5044]

 and extended in

[RFC6581]

) or the

[IBA]

.

To enable current RPC-over-RDMA version 1 implementations to interoperate with
implementations that support the message format described in this document, implementation
of the Private Data exchange is
. When Private Data has been successfully exchanged,
peers may choose to perform extended RDMA semantics. However, this exchange does not alter
the XDR deﬁnition speciﬁed in

[RFC8166]

OPTIONAL

.

The message format is intended to be further extensible within the normal scope of such IETF
work (see Section 6 for further details). Section 8 of this document deﬁnes an IANA registry for
this purpose. In addition, interoperation between implementations of RPC-over-RDMA version 1
that present this message format to peers and those that do not recognize this message format is
guaranteed.

Lever

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8797

RPC-over-RDMA CM Private Data

June 2020

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Advertised Transport Properties

3.1.  Inline Threshold Size

 deﬁnes the term "inline threshold". An inline threshold is the

Section 3.3.2 of [RFC8166]
maximum number of bytes that can be transmitted using one RDMA Send and one RDMA
Receive. There are a pair of inline thresholds for a connection: a client-to-server threshold and a
server-to-client threshold.

If an incoming RDMA message exceeds the size of a receiver's inline threshold, the Receive
operation fails and the RDMA provider typically terminates the connection. To convey an RPC
message larger than the receiver's inline threshold without risking receive failure, a sender must
use explicit RDMA data transfer operations, which are more expensive than an RDMA Send. See
Sections 3.3 and 3.5 of

 for a complete discussion.

[RFC8166]

The default value of inline thresholds for RPC-over-RDMA version 1 connections is 1024 bytes (as
deﬁned in
procedures.

). This value is adequate for nearly all NFS version 3

Section 3.3.3 of [RFC8166]

[RFC1813]

NFS version 4 COMPOUND operations
procedures
, forcing clients to use explicit RDMA operations for frequently issued
requests such as LOOKUP and GETATTR. The use of RPCSEC_GSS security also increases the
average size of RPC messages, due to the larger size of RPCSEC_GSS credential material included
in RPC headers

 are larger on average than NFS version 3

[RFC7530]

[RFC7861]

.

If a sender and receiver could somehow agree on larger inline thresholds, frequently used RPC
transactions avoid the cost of explicit RDMA operations.

3.2.  Remote Invalidation

After an RDMA data transfer operation completes, an RDMA consumer can request that its peer's
RDMA Network Interface Card (RNIC) invalidate the Steering Tag (STag) associated with the data
transfer

[RFC5042]

.

Lever

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8797

RPC-over-RDMA CM Private Data

June 2020

An RDMA consumer requests remote invalidation by posting an RDMA Send with Invalidate
operation in place of an RDMA Send operation. Each RDMA Send with Invalidate carries one
STag to invalidate. The receiver of an RDMA Send with Invalidate performs the requested
invalidation and then reports that invalidation as part of the completion of a waiting Receive
operation.

If both peers support remote invalidation, an RPC-over-RDMA responder might use remote
invalidation when replying to an RPC request that provided chunks. Because one of the chunks
has already been invalidated, ﬁnalizing the results of the RPC is made simpler and faster.

However, there are some important caveats that contraindicate the blanket use of remote
invalidation:

•

Remote invalidation is not supported by all RNICs.

•

Not all RPC-over-RDMA responder implementations can generate RDMA Send with
Invalidate operations.

•

Not all RPC-over-RDMA requester implementations can recognize when remote invalidation
has occurred.

•

On one connection in diﬀerent RPC-over-RDMA transactions, or in a single RPC-over-RDMA
transaction, an RPC-over-RDMA requester can expose a mixture of STags that may be
invalidated remotely and some that must not be. No indication is provided at the RDMA
layer as to which is which.

A responder therefore must not employ remote invalidation unless it is aware of support for it in
its own RDMA stack, and on the requester. And, without altering the XDR structure of RPC-over-
RDMA version 1 messages, it is not possible to support remote invalidation with requesters that
include an STag that must not be invalidated remotely in an RPC with STags that may be
invalidated. Likewise, it is not possible to support remote invalidation with requesters that mix
RPCs with STags that may be invalidated with RPCs with STags that must not be invalidated on
the same connection.

There are some NFS/RDMA client implementations whose STags are always safe to invalidate
remotely. For such clients, indicating to the responder that remote invalidation is always safe can
enable such invalidation without the need for additional protocol elements to be deﬁned.

4.  Private Data Message Format

With an InﬁniBand lower layer, for example, RDMA connection setup uses a Connection
Manager (CM) when establishing a Reliable Connection
. When an RPC-over-RDMA version
1 transport connection is established, the client (which actively establishes connections) and the
server (which passively accepts connections) populate the CM Private Data ﬁeld exchanged as
part of CM connection establishment.

[IBA]

Lever

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8797

RPC-over-RDMA CM Private Data

June 2020

The transport properties exchanged via this mechanism are ﬁxed for the life of the connection.
Each new connection presents an opportunity for a fresh exchange. An implementation of the
extension described in this document
reconnection.

 be prepared for the settings to change upon a

MUST

For RPC-over-RDMA version 1, the CM Private Data ﬁeld is formatted as described below. RPC
clients and servers use the same format. If the capacity of the Private Data ﬁeld is too small to
contain this message format or the underlying RDMA transport is not managed by a CM, the CM
Private Data ﬁeld cannot be used on behalf of RPC-over-RDMA version 1.

The ﬁrst eight octets of the CM Private Data ﬁeld are to be formatted as follows:

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                       Format Identifier                       |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |    Version    |  Reserved   |R|   Send Size   | Receive Size  |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Format Identiﬁer:

This ﬁeld contains a ﬁxed 32-bit value that identiﬁes the content of the

Private Data ﬁeld as an RPC-over-RDMA version 1 CM Private Data message. In RPC-over-
RDMA version 1 Private Data, the value of this ﬁeld is always 0xf6ab0e18, in network byte
order. The use of this ﬁeld is further expanded upon in Section 5.2.

Version:

This 8-bit ﬁeld contains a message format version number. The value "1" in this ﬁeld
indicates that exactly eight octets are present, that they appear in the order described in
this section, and that each has the meaning deﬁned in this section. Further considerations
about the use of this ﬁeld are discussed in Section 6.

Reserved:

This 7-bit ﬁeld is unused. Senders

MUST

 set these bits to zero, and receivers

MUST

ignore their value.

R:

This 1-bit ﬁeld indicates that the sender supports remote invalidation. The ﬁeld is set and
interpreted as described in Section 4.1.

Send Size:

This 8-bit ﬁeld contains an encoded value corresponding to the maximum number of

bytes this peer is prepared to transmit in a single RDMA Send on this connection. The
value is encoded as described in Section 4.2.

Receive Size:

This 8-bit ﬁeld contains an encoded value corresponding to the maximum number

of bytes this peer is prepared to receive with a single RDMA Receive on this connection.
The value is encoded as described in Section 4.2.

Lever

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8797

RPC-over-RDMA CM Private Data

June 2020

4.1.  Using the R Field

The R ﬁeld indicates limited support for remote invalidation as described in Section 3.2. When
both connection peers have set this bit ﬂag in their CM Private Data, the responder
RDMA Send with Invalidate operations when transmitting RPC Replies. Each RDMA Send with
Invalidate
ﬁeld of the RPC-over-RDMA Transport Header it carries.

 invalidate an STag associated only with the Transaction ID (XID) in the rdma_xid

MUST

MAY

 use

When either peer on a connection clears this ﬂag, the responder
when transmitting RPC Replies.

MUST

 use only RDMA Send

4.2.  Send and Receive Size Values

Inline threshold sizes from 1024 to 262144 octets can be represented in the Send Size and Receive
Size ﬁelds. The inline threshold values provide a pair of 1024-octet-aligned maximum message
lengths that guarantee that Send and Receive operations do not fail due to length errors.

The minimum inline threshold for RPC-over-RDMA version 1 is 1024 octets (see
). The values in the Send Size and Receive Size ﬁelds represent the unsigned number of
[RFC8166]
additional kilo-octets of length beyond the ﬁrst 1024 octets. Thus, a sender computes the encoded
value by dividing its actual buﬀer size, in octets, by 1024 and subtracting one from the result. A
receiver decodes an incoming Size value by performing the inverse set of operations: it adds one
to the encoded value and then multiplies that result by 1024.

Section 3.3.3 of

The client uses the smaller of its own send size and the server's reported receive size as the
client-to-server inline threshold. The server uses the smaller of its own send size and the client's
reported receive size as the server-to-client inline threshold.

5.  Interoperability Considerations

The extension described in this document is designed to allow RPC-over-RDMA version
implementations that use CM Private Data to interoperate fully with RPC-over-RDMA version 1
implementations that do not exchange this information. Implementations that use this extension
must also interoperate fully with RDMA implementations that use CM Private Data for other
purposes. Realizing these goals requires that implementations of this extension follow the
practices described in the rest of this section.

5.1.  Interoperability with RPC-over-RDMA Version 1 Implementations

When a peer does not receive a CM Private Data message that conforms to Section 4, it needs to
act as if the remote peer supports only the default RPC-over-RDMA version 1 settings, as deﬁned
 behave as if a Private Data message was received in
in
which (1) bit 15 of the Flags ﬁeld is zero and (2) both Size ﬁelds contain the value zero.

. In other words, the peer

[RFC8166]

MUST

Lever

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8797

RPC-over-RDMA CM Private Data

June 2020

5.2.  Interoperability amongst RDMA Transports

The Format Identiﬁer ﬁeld deﬁned in Section 4 is provided to enable implementations to
distinguish the Private Data deﬁned in this document from Private Data inserted at other layers,
such as the additional Private Data deﬁned by the MPAv2 protocol described in
others.

[RFC6581]

, and

As part of connection establishment, the buﬀer containing the received Private Data is searched
for the Format Identiﬁer word. The oﬀset of the Format Identiﬁer is not restricted to any
alignment. If the RPC-over-RDMA version 1 CM Private Data Format Identiﬁer is not present, an
 behave as if no RPC-over-RDMA version 1 CM Private
RPC-over-RDMA version 1 receiver
Data has been provided.

MUST

Once the RPC-over-RDMA version 1 CM Private Data Format Identiﬁer is found, the receiver
parses the subsequent octets as RPC-over-RDMA version 1 CM Private Data. As additional
assurance that the content is valid RPC-over-RDMA version 1 CM Private Data, the receiver
should check that the format version number ﬁeld contains a valid and recognized version
number and the size of the content does not overrun the length of the buﬀer.

6.  Updating the Message Format

Although the message format described in this document provides the ability for the client and
server to exchange particular information about the local RPC-over-RDMA implementation, it is
possible that there will be a future need to exchange additional properties. This would make it
necessary to extend or otherwise modify the format described in this document.

Any modiﬁcation faces the problem of interoperating properly with implementations of RPC-
over-RDMA version 1 that are unaware of the existence of the new format. These include
implementations that do not recognize the exchange of CM Private Data as well as those that
recognize only the format described in this document.

Given the message format described in this document, these interoperability constraints could be
met by the following sorts of new message formats:

•

A format that uses a diﬀerent value for the ﬁrst four bytes of the format, as provided for in
the registry described in Section 8.

•

A format that uses the same value for the Format Identiﬁer ﬁeld and a value other than one
(1) in the Version ﬁeld.

Although it is possible to reorganize the last three of the eight bytes in the existing format,
extended formats are unlikely to do so. New formats would take the form of extensions of the
format described in this document with added ﬁelds starting at byte eight of the format or
changes to the deﬁnition of bits in the Reserved ﬁeld.

Lever

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8797

RPC-over-RDMA CM Private Data

June 2020

7.  Security Considerations

The reader is directed to the Security Considerations section of
further discussion.

[RFC8166]

 for background and

The RPC-over-RDMA version 1 protocol framework depends on the semantics of the Reliable
. The integrity of CM
Connected (RC) queue pair (QP) type, as deﬁned in Section 9.7.7 of
Private Data and the authenticity of its source are ensured by the exclusive use of RC QPs. Any
attempt to interfere with or hijack data in transit on an RC connection results in the RDMA
provider terminating the connection.

[IBA]

[RFC5042]

 refers the reader to further relevant discussion

The Security Considerations section of
of generic RDMA transport security. That document recommends IPsec as the default transport-
layer security solution. When deployed with the Remote Direct Memory Access Protocol (RDMAP)
, IPsec establishes a protected channel before any
[RFC5040]
operations are exchanged; thus, it protects the exchange of Private Data. However, IPsec is not
available for InﬁniBand or RDMA over Converged Ethernet (RoCE) deployments. Those fabrics
rely on physical security and cyclic redundancy checks to protect network traﬃc.

, and MPA

[RFC5044]

[RFC5041]

, DDP

Exchanging the information contained in the message format deﬁned in this document does not
expose upper-layer payloads to an attacker. Furthermore, the behavior changes that occur as a
result of exchanging the Private Data described in the current document do not introduce any
new risk of exposure of upper-layer payload data.

Improperly setting one of the ﬁelds in version 1 Private Data can result in an increased risk of
disconnection (i.e., self-imposed Denial of Service). A similar risk can arise if non-RPC-over-
RDMA CM Private Data inadvertently contains the Format Identiﬁer that identiﬁes this protocol's
data structure. Additional checking of incoming Private Data, as described in Section 5.2, can
help reduce this risk.

In addition to describing the structure of a new format version, any document that extends the
Private Data format described in the current document must discuss security considerations of
new data items exchanged between connection peers. Such documents should also explore the
risks of erroneously identifying non-RPC-over-RDMA CM Private Data as the new format.

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created the "RDMA-CM Private Data Identiﬁers" subregistry within the "Remote Direct
Data Placement" protocol category group. This is a subregistry of 32-bit numbers that identify the
upper-layer protocol associated with data that appears in the application-speciﬁc RDMA-CM
Private Data area. The ﬁelds in this subregistry include the following: Format Identiﬁer, Length
(format length, in octets), Description, and Reference.

The initial contents of this registry are a single entry:

Lever

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8797

RPC-over-RDMA CM Private Data

June 2020

Format Identiﬁer

Length Description

Reference

0xf6ab0e18

8

RPC-over-RDMA version 1 CM Private Data

RFC 8797

Table 1: New "RDMA-CM Private Data Identiﬁers" Registry

IANA is to assign subsequent new entries in this registry using the Speciﬁcation Required policy
as deﬁned in

Section 4.6 of [RFC8126]

.

8.1.  Guidance for Designated Experts

The Designated Expert (DE), appointed by the IESG, should ascertain the existence of suitable
documentation that deﬁnes the semantics and format of the Private Data, and verify that the
document is permanently and publicly available. Documentation produced outside the IETF
must not conﬂict with work that is active or already published within the IETF. The new
Reference ﬁeld should contain a reference to that documentation.

The Description ﬁeld should contain the name of the upper-layer protocol that generates and
uses the Private Data.

The DE should assign a new Format Identiﬁer so that it does not conﬂict with existing entries in
this registry and so that it is not likely to be mistaken as part of the payload of other registered
formats.

The DE shall post the request to the NFSV4 Working Group mailing list (or a successor to that list,
if such a list exists) for comment and review. The DE shall approve or deny the request and
publish notice of the decision within 30 days.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[IBA]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4506]

[RFC5040]

InﬁniBand Trade Association "InﬁniBand Architecture Speciﬁcation Volume 1"
Release 1.3

<https://www.inﬁnibandta.org/>

, March 2015,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Eisler, M., Ed. "XDR: External Data Representation Standard" STD 67 RFC 4506
DOI 10.17487/RFC4506

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4506>

, May 2006,

.

,

,

,

,

Recio, R., Metzler, B., Culley, P., Hilland, J., and D. Garcia "A Remote Direct
,
Memory Access Protocol Speciﬁcation" RFC 5040 DOI 10.17487/RFC5040
October 2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5040>

,

,

.

,

Lever

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8797

RPC-over-RDMA CM Private Data

June 2020

[RFC5042]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8166]

[RFC8174]

Pinkerton, J. and E. Deleganes "Direct Data Placement Protocol (DDP) / Remote
Direct Memory Access Protocol (RDMAP) Security" RFC 5042 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5042

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5042>

, October 2007,

,

,

,

.

Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

Lever, C., Ed., Simpson, W., and T. Talpey "Remote Direct Memory Access
Transport for Remote Procedure Call Version 1" RFC 8166 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8166

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8166>

, June 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC1813]

[RFC5041]

[RFC5044]

[RFC5531]

[RFC5666]

[RFC6581]

[RFC7530]

[RFC7861]

Callaghan, B., Pawlowski, B., and P. Staubach "NFS Version 3 Protocol
,
Speciﬁcation" RFC 1813 DOI 10.17487/RFC1813
editor.org/info/rfc1813>
.

, June 1995,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

Shah, H., Pinkerton, J., Recio, R., and P. Culley "Direct Data Placement over
Reliable Transports" RFC 5041 DOI 10.17487/RFC5041
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5041>

, October 2007,

,

,

.

,

<https://

Culley, P., Elzur, U., Recio, R., Bailey, S., and J. Carrier "Marker PDU Aligned
,
,
Framing for TCP Speciﬁcation" RFC 5044 DOI 10.17487/RFC5044
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5044>

,

, October 2007,

,

Thurlow, R. "RPC: Remote Procedure Call Protocol Speciﬁcation Version 2" RFC
,
5531 DOI 10.17487/RFC5531
rfc5531>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2009,

.

,

Talpey, T. and B. Callaghan "Remote Direct Memory Access Transport for
, January 2010,
Remote Procedure Call" RFC 5666 DOI 10.17487/RFC5666
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5666>

.

,

,

,

Kanevsky, A., Ed., Bestler, C., Ed., Sharp, R., and S. Wise "Enhanced Remote
Direct Memory Access (RDMA) Connection Establishment" RFC 6581 DOI
.
10.17487/RFC6581

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6581>

, April 2012,

,

,

,

Haynes, T., Ed. and D. Noveck, Ed. "Network File System (NFS) Version 4
Protocol" RFC 7530 DOI 10.17487/RFC7530
editor.org/info/rfc7530>

, March 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Adamson, A. and N. Williams "Remote Procedure Call (RPC) Security Version 3"
RFC 7861 DOI 10.17487/RFC7861
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc7861>

, November 2016,

,

.

,

,

Lever

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8797

RPC-over-RDMA CM Private Data

June 2020

Acknowledgments

 and

Thanks to
Talpey
Bill Baker
Hefty
 and

Christoph Hellwig
David Noveck

Greg Marsden

 and
Dave Minturn
.

 and

Devesh Sharma

 for suggesting this approach, and to

Tom

 for their expert comments and review. The author also wishes to thank
Sean
 for their support of this work. Also, thanks to expert reviewers

Special thanks go to document shepherd
Westerlund
Working Group Secretary

, NFSV4 Working Group Chairs
Thomas Haynes
.

Brian Pawlowski
David Noveck

, Transport Area Director
Spencer Shepler

 and

, and NFSV4

Magnus

Author's Address

Charles Lever
Oracle Corporation
United States of America
Email:

 chuck.lever@oracle.com

Lever

Standards Track

Page 12

