Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8887
Standards Track
August 2020
2070-1721
K. Murchison
Fastmail

RFC 8887
A JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP)
Subprotocol for WebSocket

Abstract

This document deﬁnes a binding for the JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) over a
WebSocket transport layer. The WebSocket binding for JMAP provides higher performance than
the current HTTP binding for JMAP.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8887

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8887

JMAP over WebSocket

August 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  Discovering Support for JMAP over WebSocket

4.  JMAP Subprotocol

4.1.  Authentication

4.2.  Handshake

4.3.  WebSocket Messages

4.3.1.  Handling Invalid Data

4.3.2.  JMAP Requests

4.3.3.  JMAP Responses

4.3.4.  JMAP Request-Level Errors

4.3.5.  JMAP Push Notiﬁcations

4.4.  Examples

5.  Security Considerations

5.1.  Connection Conﬁdentiality and Integrity

5.2.  Non-browser Clients

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Registration of the WebSocket JMAP Subprotocol

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8887

JMAP over WebSocket

August 2020

1.  Introduction

 over

HTTP [RFC7235]

JMAP [RFC8620]
 requires that every JMAP API request be authenticated.
Depending on the type of authentication used by the JMAP client and the conﬁguration of the
JMAP server, authentication could be an expensive operation both in time and resources. In such
circumstances, reauthenticating for every JMAP API request may harm performance.

WebSocket [RFC6455]

The
just the WebSocket handshake request and having those credentials remain in eﬀect for the
duration of the WebSocket connection. This binding supports JMAP API requests and responses,
with optional support for push notiﬁcations.

 binding for JMAP eliminates this performance hit by authenticating

Furthermore, the WebSocket binding for JMAP can optionally
API requests and responses. Although compression of HTTP responses is ubiquitous,
compression of HTTP requests has very low, if any, deployment and therefore isn't a viable
option for JMAP API requests over HTTP.

compress [RFC7692]

 both JMAP

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses the terminology deﬁned in the core JMAP speciﬁcation

[RFC8620]

.

3.  Discovering Support for JMAP over WebSocket

The JMAP capabilities object is returned as part of the standard JMAP Session object (see
2 of [RFC8620]
"urn:ietf:params:jmap:websocket" to the capabilities object. The value of this property is an
 contain the following information on server capabilities:
object that

). Servers supporting this speciﬁcation

 add a property named

MUST

MUST

Section

•

url: "String"

The wss-URI (see
Section 3 of [RFC6455]
handshake (the "WebSocket URL endpoint" colloquially).

) to use for initiating a JMAP-over-WebSocket

•

supportsPush: "Boolean"

This is true if the server supports push notiﬁcations over the WebSocket, as described in
Section 4.3.5.

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8887

JMAP over WebSocket

August 2020

Example:

"urn:ietf:params:jmap:websocket": {
  "url": "wss://server.example.com/jmap/ws/",
  "supportsPush": true
}

4.  JMAP Subprotocol

The term WebSocket subprotocol refers to an application-level protocol layered on top of a
WebSocket connection. This document speciﬁes the WebSocket JMAP subprotocol for carrying
JMAP API requests, responses, and optional push notiﬁcations through a WebSocket connection.
Binary data is handled per
 (via a separate HTTP connection or stream) or
per a future extension to JMAP or this speciﬁcation.

Section 6 of [RFC8620]

4.1.  Authentication

A JMAP WebSocket connection is authenticated by presenting a user's
request [RFC7235]
recommendations regarding the selection of HTTP authentication schemes.

 that initiates the WebSocket handshake. See

credentials in the HTTP

Section 8.2 of [RFC8620]

 for

4.2.  Handshake

The JMAP WebSocket client and JMAP WebSocket server negotiate the use of the WebSocket
JMAP subprotocol during the WebSocket handshake, either via an HTTP/1.1 Upgrade request (see
) or an HTTP/2 Extended CONNECT request (see
Section 5 of [RFC8441]
Section 4 of [RFC6455]
The WebSocket JMAP subprotocol is also intended to run over future bindings of HTTP (e.g.,
HTTP/3) provided that there is a deﬁned mechanism for performing a WebSocket handshake
over that binding.

).

WebSocket URL endpoint (Section 3)

Regardless of the method used for the WebSocket handshake, the client
handshake on a JMAP
(WebSocket over TLS) in accordance with the requirements of running the particular binding of
HTTP over TLS (see
Section 4.1 of [RFC6455]
[RFC7540]
Otherwise, the client
connection and
MUST
Protocol" header ﬁeld.

 on the encrypted
MUST
 include the value "jmap" in the list of protocols for the "Sec-WebSocket-

 for HTTP/2). If the TLS handshake fails, the client

authenticated HTTP request [RFC7235]

 having the "wss://" scheme

 close the connection.

 for HTTP/1.1 and

Section 9.2 of

 ﬁrst perform a TLS

[RFC2818]

 make an

MUST

MUST

 and

The reply from the server
ﬁeld with a value of "jmap" in order for a JMAP subprotocol connection to be established.

 also contain a corresponding "Sec-WebSocket-Protocol" header

MUST

Once the handshake has successfully completed, the WebSocket connection is established and
can be used for JMAP API requests, responses, and optional push notiﬁcations. Other message
types

 be transmitted over this connection.

MUST NOT

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8887

JMAP over WebSocket

August 2020

The credentials used for authenticating the HTTP request to initiate the handshake remain in
eﬀect for the duration of the WebSocket connection. If the authentication credentials for the user
expire, the server can either treat subsequent requests as if they are unauthenticated or close the
WebSocket connection. In the latter case, the server
 send a Close frame with a status code of
1008 (Policy Violation), as deﬁned in

Section 7.4.1 of [RFC6455]

MAY

.

4.3.  WebSocket Messages

MUST

 be in the form of a single JMAP Request object (see
), JMAP WebSocketPushEnable object (see Section 4.3.5.2), or JMAP

Data frame messages in the JMAP subprotocol
data. The messages
MUST
[RFC8620]
WebSocketPushDisable object (see Section 4.3.5.3) when sent from the client to the server, and
MUST be in the form of a single JMAP Response object, JSON Problem Details object, or JMAP
StateChange object (see Sections 3.4, 3.6.1, and 7.1 of
server to the client.

 be text frames and contain UTF-8 encoded

, respectively) when sent from the

Section 3.3 of

[RFC8620]

Note that fragmented WebSocket messages (split over multiple text frames)
prior to parsing them as JSON objects.

MUST

 be coalesced

4.3.1.  Handling Invalid Data

If a client or server receives a binary frame, the endpoint can either ignore the frame or close the
WebSocket connection. In the latter case, the endpoint
 send a Close frame with a status code
of 1003 (Unsupported Data), as deﬁned in

.
Section 7.4.1 of [RFC6455]

MAY

If a client receives a message that is not in the form of a JSON Problem Details object, a JMAP
Response object, or a JMAP StateChange object, the client can either ignore the message or close
 send a Close frame with a status
the WebSocket connection. In the latter case, the endpoint
code of 1007 (Invalid frame payload data), as deﬁned in

Section 7.4.1 of [RFC6455]

MAY

.

MUST

 return an appropriate

A server
 for any request-
level errors (e.g., an invalid JMAP object, an unsupported capability or method call, or exceeding
a server request limit).

JSON Problem Details object (Section 4.3.4)

4.3.2.  JMAP Requests

The speciﬁcation extends the Request object with two additional arguments when used over a
WebSocket:

•

@type: "String"

This

MUST

 be the string "Request".

•

id: "String" (optional)

A client-speciﬁed identiﬁer for the request to be echoed back in the response to this request.

JMAP over WebSocket allows the server to process requests out of order. The client-speciﬁed
identiﬁer is used as a mechanism for the client to correlate requests and responses.

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8887

JMAP over WebSocket

August 2020

) also applies to requests made on the WebSocket connection. When using the

Additionally, the "maxConcurrentRequests" limit in the "capabilities" object (see
[RFC8620]
WebSocket JMAP subprotocol over a binding of HTTP that allows multiplexing of requests (e.g.,
HTTP/2), this limit applies to the sum of requests made on both the JMAP API endpoint and the
WebSocket connection.

Section 2 of

4.3.3.  JMAP Responses

The speciﬁcation extends the Response object with two additional arguments when used over a
WebSocket:

•

@type: "String"

This

MUST

 be the string "Response".

•

requestId: "String" (optional;

MUST

 be returned if an identiﬁer is included in the request)

The client-speciﬁed identiﬁer in the corresponding request.

4.3.4.  JMAP Request-Level Errors

The speciﬁcation extends the Problem Details object for request-level errors (see
) with two additional arguments when used over a WebSocket:
[RFC8620]

Section 3.6.1 of

•

@type: "String"

This

MUST

 be the string "RequestError".

•

requestId: "String" (optional;

MUST

 be returned if given in the request)

The client-speciﬁed identiﬁer in the corresponding request.

4.3.5.  JMAP Push Notiﬁcations

JMAP-over-WebSocket servers that support push notiﬁcations on the WebSocket will advertise a
"supportsPush" property with a value of true in the "urn:ietf:params:jmap:websocket" server
capabilities object.

4.3.5.1.  Notiﬁcation Format

All push notiﬁcations take the form of a standard StateChange object (see
[RFC8620]

).

Section 7.1 of

The speciﬁcation extends the StateChange object with one additional argument when used over a
WebSocket:

•

pushState: "String" (optional)

A (preferably short) string that encodes the entire server state visible to the user (not just the
objects returned in this call).

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8887

JMAP over WebSocket

August 2020

The purpose of the "pushState" token is to allow a client to immediately get any changes that
occurred while it was disconnected (see Section 4.3.5.2). If the server does not support
"pushState" tokens, the client will have to issue a series of "/changes" requests (see
) upon reconnection to update its state to match that of the server.
5.2 of [RFC8620]

Section

4.3.5.2.  Enabling Notiﬁcations

A client enables push notiﬁcations from the server for the current connection by sending a
WebSocketPushEnable object to the server. A WebSocketPushEnable object has the following
properties:

•

@type: "String"

This

MUST

 be the string "WebSocketPushEnable".

•

dataTypes: "String[]|null"

A list of data type names (e.g., "Mailbox" or "Email") that the client is interested in. A
StateChange notiﬁcation will only be sent if the data for one of these types changes. Other
types are omitted from the TypeState object. If null, changes will be pushed for all supported
data types.

•

pushState: "String" (optional)

The last "pushState" token that the client received from the server. Upon receipt of a
"pushState" token, the server

 immediately send all changes since that state token.

SHOULD

4.3.5.3.  Disabling Notiﬁcations

A client disables push notiﬁcations from the server for the current connection by sending a
WebSocketPushDisable object to the server. A WebSocketPushDisable object has the following
property:

•

@type: "String"

This

MUST

 be the string "WebSocketPushDisable".

4.4.  Examples

The following examples show WebSocket JMAP opening handshakes, a JMAP Core/echo request
and response, and a subsequent closing handshake. The examples assume that the JMAP
WebSocket URL endpoint has been advertised in the JMAP Session object as having a path of "/
jmap/ws/" and that TLS negotiation has already succeeded. Note that folding of header ﬁelds is
for editorial purposes only.

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8887

JMAP over WebSocket

August 2020

WebSocket JMAP connection via HTTP/1.1 with push notiﬁcations for mail
This example assumes that the client has cached pushState "aaa" from a previous connection.

[RFC8621]

 is enabled.

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8887

JMAP over WebSocket

August 2020

[[ From Client ]]                [[ From Server ]]

GET /jmap/ws/ HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Upgrade: websocket
Connection: Upgrade
Authorization: Basic Zm9vOmJhcg==
Sec-WebSocket-Key:
  dGhlIHNhbXBsZSBub25jZQ==
Sec-WebSocket-Protocol: jmap
Sec-WebSocket-Version: 13
Origin: https://www.example.com

                                 HTTP/1.1 101 Switching Protocols
                                 Upgrade: websocket
                                 Connection: Upgrade
                                 Sec-WebSocket-Accept:
                                   s3pPLMBiTxaQ9kYGzzhZRbK+xOo=
                                 Sec-WebSocket-Protocol: jmap

[WebSocket connection established]

WS_DATA
{
  "@type": "WebSocketPushEnable",
  "dataTypes": [ "Mailbox", "Email" ],
  "pushState": "aaa"
}

                                 WS_DATA
                                 {
                                   "@type": "StateChange",
                                   "changed": {
                                     "a456": {
                                       "Mailbox": "d35ecb040aab"
                                     }
                                   },
                                   "pushState": "bbb"
                                 }

WS_DATA
{
  "@type": "Request",
  "id": "R1",
  "using": [ "urn:ietf:params:jmap:core" ],
  "methodCalls": [
    [
      "Core/echo", {
        "hello": true,
        "high": 5
      },
      "b3ff"
    ]
  ]
}

                                 WS_DATA

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8887

JMAP over WebSocket

August 2020

                                 {
                                   "@type": "Response",
                                   "requestId": "R1",
                                   "methodResponses": [
                                     [
                                       "Core/echo", {
                                         "hello": true,
                                         "high": 5
                                       },
                                       "b3ff"
                                     ]
                                   ]
                                 }

WS_DATA
The quick brown fox jumps
 over the lazy dog.

                                 WS_DATA
                                 {
                                   "@type": "RequestError",
                                   "requestId": null,
                                   "type":
                             "urn:ietf:params:jmap:error:notJSON",
                                   "status": 400,
                                   "detail":
                             "The request did not parse as I-JSON."
                                 }

[A new email is received]

                                 WS_DATA
                                 {
                                   "@type": "StateChange",
                                   "changed": {
                                     "a123": {
                                       "Email": "0af7a512ce70"
                                     }
                                   }
                                   "pushState": "ccc"
                                 }

WS_CLOSE

                                 WS_CLOSE

[WebSocket connection closed]

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8887

JMAP over WebSocket

August 2020

WebSocket JMAP connection on an HTTP/2 stream that also negotiates

compression [RFC7692]

:

[[ From Client ]]                [[ From Server ]]

                                 SETTINGS
                                 SETTINGS_ENABLE_CONNECT_PROTOCOL = 1

HEADERS + END_HEADERS
:method = CONNECT
:protocol = websocket
:scheme = https
:path = /jmap/ws/
:authority = server.example.com
origin: https://example.com
authorization = Basic Zm9vOmJhcg==
sec-websocket-protocol = jmap
sec-websocket-version = 13
sec-websocket-extensions =
  permessage-deflate
origin = https://www.example.com

                                 HEADERS + END_HEADERS
                                 :status = 200
                                 sec-websocket-protocol = jmap
                                 sec-websocket-extensions =
                                   permessage-deflate

[WebSocket connection established]

DATA
WS_DATA
[compressed text]

                                 DATA
                                 WS_DATA
                                 [compressed text]

...

DATA + END_STREAM
WS_CLOSE

                                 DATA + END_STREAM
                                 WS_CLOSE

[WebSocket connection closed]
[HTTP/2 stream closed]

5.  Security Considerations

The security considerations for both WebSocket (see
Section 8 of [RFC8620]
considerations are described below.

) apply to the WebSocket JMAP subprotocol. Speciﬁc security

Section 10 of [RFC6455]

) and JMAP (see

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8887

JMAP over WebSocket

August 2020

5.1.  Connection Conﬁdentiality and Integrity

To ensure the conﬁdentiality and integrity of data sent and received via JMAP over WebSocket,
the WebSocket connection
in

 or later, following the recommendations

 use
SHOULD

BCP 195 [RFC7525]

TLS 1.2 [RFC5246]

TLS 1.3 [RFC8446]

. Servers

 support

 or later.

MUST

5.2.  Non-browser Clients

JMAP over WebSocket can be used by clients both running inside and outside of a web browser.
As such, the security considerations in Sections 10.2 and 10.1 of
respective environments.

 apply to those

[RFC6455]

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Registration of the WebSocket JMAP Subprotocol

Per this speciﬁcation, IANA has registered the following in the "WebSocket Subprotocol Name
Registry" within the "WebSocket Protocol Registries".

Subprotocol Identiﬁer:

jmap

Subprotocol Common Name:

WebSocket Transport for JMAP (JSON Meta Application Protocol)

Subprotocol Deﬁnition:

RFC 8887

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2818]

[RFC5246]

[RFC6455]

[RFC7235]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Rescorla, E. "HTTP Over TLS" RFC 2818 DOI 10.17487/RFC2818
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2818>

,

,

.

, May 2000,

Dierks, T. and E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
info/rfc5246>

, August 2008,

,
.

,

,

Fette, I. and A. Melnikov "The WebSocket Protocol" RFC 6455 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6455

,
, December 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6455>

,

,

.

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Authentication" RFC 7235 DOI 10.17487/RFC7235
.
editor.org/info/rfc7235>

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8887

JMAP over WebSocket

August 2020

[RFC7525]

[RFC7540]

[RFC7692]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8441]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8620]

Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Belshe, M., Peon, R., and M. Thomson, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version
,
,
2 (HTTP/2)" RFC 7540 DOI 10.17487/RFC7540
editor.org/info/rfc7540>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

.

,

Yoshino, T. "Compression Extensions for WebSocket" RFC 7692 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7692

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7692>

, December 2015,

.

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

.

,

,

,

McManus, P. "Bootstrapping WebSockets with HTTP/2" RFC 8441 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8441

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8441>

, September 2018,

.

,

,

,

,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

,
Jenkins, N. and C. Newman "The JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP)" RFC
,
8620 DOI 10.17487/RFC8620
rfc8620>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2019,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC8621]

Jenkins, N. and C. Newman "The JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) for
Mail" RFC 8621 DOI 10.17487/RFC8621
editor.org/info/rfc8621>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2019,

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgments

The author would like to thank the following individuals for contributing their ideas and support
for writing this speciﬁcation:

Neil Jenkins Robert Mueller

Chris Newman

, and

,

.

Author's Address

Kenneth Murchison
Fastmail US LLC
1429 Walnut Street, Suite 1201
Philadelphia PA 19102
,
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 http://www.fastmail.com/

 murch@fastmailteam.com

Murchison

Standards Track

Page 13

