Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8800
Standards Track
July 2020
2070-1721
S. Litkowski
Cisco Systems, Inc.

S. Sivabalan
Ciena Corporation

C. Barth
Juniper Networks

M. Negi
RtBrick India

RFC 8800
Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
(PCEP) Extension for Label Switched Path (LSP)
Diversity Constraint Signaling

Abstract

This document introduces a simple mechanism to associate a group of Label Switched Paths
(LSPs) via an extension to the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) with
the purpose of computing diverse (disjointed) paths for those LSPs. The proposed extension
allows a Path Computation Client (PCC) to advertise to a Path Computation Element (PCE) that a
particular LSP belongs to a particular Disjoint Association Group; thus, the PCE knows that the
LSPs in the same group need to be disjoint from each other.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8800

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Terminology

3.  Motivation

4.  Applicability

5.  Protocol Extension

5.1.  Association Group

5.2.  Disjoint TLVs

5.3.  Disjointness Objective Functions

5.4.  Relationship to SVEC

5.4.1.  SVEC and OF

5.5.  P Flag Considerations

5.6.  Disjointness Computation Issues

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Association Type

7.2.  PCEP TLVs

7.3.  Objective Functions

7.4.  NO-PATH-VECTOR Bit Flags

7.5.  PCEP-ERROR Codes

8.  Manageability Considerations

8.1.  Control of Function and Policy

8.2.  Information and Data Models

8.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

8.4.  Veriﬁcation of Correct Operations

8.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

8.6.  Impact on Network Operations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 describes the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP), which

[RFC5440]
enables the communication between a Path Computation Client (PCC) and a Path Control
Element (PCE) or between two PCEs based on the PCE architecture

.
[RFC4655]

The PCEP Extensions for Stateful PCE Model
[RFC8231]
enable active control of MPLS-TE and GMPLS tunnels.
teardown of PCE-initiated LSPs under the active stateful PCE model, without the need for local
conﬁguration on the PCC, thus allowing for a dynamic network.

 describes a set of extensions to PCEP to
[RFC8281]

 describes the setup and

 introduces a generic mechanism to create a grouping of LSPs in the context of a PCE

[RFC8697]
that can then be used to deﬁne associations between a set of LSPs and a set of attributes (such as
conﬁguration parameters or behaviors) and is equally applicable to the active and passive modes
of a stateful PCE

 or a stateless PCE

.
[RFC4655]

[RFC8231]

This document speciﬁes a PCEP extension to signal that a set of LSPs in a particular group should
use diverse (disjointed) paths, including the requested type of diversity. Sections 3 and 4 describe
the property and use of a Disjoint Association Group. A PCC can use this extension to signal to a
PCE that a particular LSP belongs to a particular Disjoint Association Group. When a PCE receives
LSP states belonging to the same Disjoint Association Group from some PCCs, the PCE should
ensure that the LSPs within the group are disjoint from each other.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Terminology

The following terminology is used in this document.

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

DAT:

Disjoint Association Type

DAG:

Disjoint Association Group

MPLS:

Multiprotocol Label Switching

OF:

PCC:

PCE:

Objective Function

Path Computation Client. Any client application requesting a path computation to be
performed by a Path Computation Element.

Path Computation Element. An entity (component, application, or network node) that
is capable of computing a network path or route based on a network graph and
applying computational constraints.

PCEP:

Path Computation Element Communication Protocol

PLSP-ID:

PCEP-speciﬁc identiﬁer for the LSP

SRLG:

Shared Risk Link Group

3.  Motivation

Path diversity is a very common use case in today's IP/MPLS networks, especially for layer 2
transport over MPLS. A customer may request that the operator provide two end-to-end disjoint
paths across the operator's IP/MPLS core. The customer may use these paths as primary/backup
or active/active conﬁguration.

Diﬀerent levels of disjointness may be oﬀered:

•

Link disjointness: the paths of the associated LSPs should transit diﬀerent links (but may use
common nodes or diﬀerent links that may have some shared fate).

•

Node disjointness: the paths of the associated LSPs should transit diﬀerent nodes (but may
use diﬀerent links that may have some shared fate).

•

SRLG disjointness: the paths of the associated LSPs should transit diﬀerent links that do not
share fate (but may use common transit nodes).

•

Node+SRLG disjointness: the paths of the associated LSPs should transit diﬀerent links that
do not have any common shared fate and should transit diﬀerent nodes.

The associated LSPs may originate from the same or diﬀerent head end(s) and may terminate at
the same or diﬀerent tail end(s).

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

4.  Applicability

         _________________________________________
        /                                         \
       /        +------+                           \
      |         | PCE  |                            |
      |         +------+                            |
      |                                             |
      |          ***********************>           |
      | +------+           10             +------+  |
CE1 ****| PE 1 | ----- R1 ---- R2 ------- | PE 2 |**** CE2
      | +------+       |        |         +------+  |
      |                |        |                   |
      |                |        |                   |
      | +------+       |        |         +------+  |
CE3 ****| PE 3 | ----- R3 ---- R4 ------- | PE 4 |**** CE4
      | +------+ ***********************> +------+  |
      |                                             |
       \                                           /
        \_________________________________________/

Figure 1: Disjoint Paths with Diﬀerent Head Ends and Tail Ends

In the ﬁgure above, let us consider that the customer wants to have two disjoint paths, one
between CE1 and CE2 and one between CE3 and CE4. From an IP/MPLS network point view, in
this example, the CEs are connected to diﬀerent PEs to maximize their disjointness. When LSPs
originate from diﬀerent head ends, distributed computation of diverse paths can be diﬃcult,
whereas computation via a centralized PCE ensures path disjointness, correctness, and
simplicity.

Section 5.4 describes the relationship between the Disjoint Association Group (DAG) and
Synchronization VECtor (SVEC) object.

[RFC8231]

The PCEP extension for stateful PCE
Report (PCRpt), Path Computation Update (PCUpd), and Path Computation Initiate (PCInitiate)
[RFC8281]
diversity between LSPs originating from diﬀerent PCCs, the generic mechanism to create a
grouping of LSPs that is equally applicable to the active and passive modes of a stateful PCE is
described in

. These messages use a PLSP-ID in the LSP object for identiﬁcation. Moreover, to allow

 deﬁned new PCEP messages -- Path Computation

[RFC8697]

.

Using the extension to PCEP deﬁned in this document, the PCC uses the extension deﬁned in
[RFC8697]
 to indicate that a group of LSPs are required to be disjoint; such indication should
include disjointness parameters like the type of disjointness, the Disjoint Association Group
identiﬁers, and any customization parameters according to the conﬁgured local policy.

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

The management of the Disjoint Association Group IDs will be a key point for the operator as the
Association ID ﬁeld is limited to 65535. The local conﬁguration of the IPv4/IPv6 Association
Source, or Global Association Source/Extended Association ID, can overcome this limitation, as
described in
Association Group, it can set the IPv4/IPv6 Association Source as one of its own IP address. When
disjoint LSPs are initiated from diﬀerent head ends, the Association Source could be the PCE
address or any other unique value to identify the DAG.

. When a PCC or PCE initiates all the LSPs in a particular Disjoint

[RFC8697]

        Initiate Disjoint LSPs
                 |
                 |                       PCReq/PCRpt
                 V                        {DAG Y}
              +-----+                ----------------> +-----+
   _ _ _ _ _ _| PCE |               |                  | PCE |
  |           +-----+               |      ----------> +-----+
  | PCInitiate                      |     |    PCReq/PCRpt
  |{DAG X}                          |     | {DAG Y}
  |                                 |     |
  |              .-----.            |     |         .-----.
  |             (       )           | +-----+      (       )
  |         .--(         )--.       | |PCC 2|--.--(         )--.
  V        (                 )      | +-----+ (                 )
+---+     (                  )      |        (                  )
|PCC|----(   (G)MPLS network )   +-----+    ( (G)MPLS network   )
+---+    (                   )   |PCC 1|-----(                  )
{DAG X}   (                 )    +-----+      (                )
           '--(         )--'                   (           )--'
               (       )                         (        )
                '-----'                            '-----'

Case 1: Disjointness initiated by   Case 2: Disjointness initiated by
    PCE and enforced by PCC              PCC and enforced by PCE

Figure 2: Sample Use Cases for Carrying Disjoint Association Group over PCEP Session

The Disjoint Association Group within a PCEP messages is used for:

•

Conﬁguration: Used to communicate the conﬁgured disjoint requirement to a PCEP peer.

•

Status: Used to communicate the status of the computed disjointness.

5.  Protocol Extension

5.1.  Association Group

[RFC8697]

, LSPs are associated with other LSPs with which they interact by adding them

As per
, the association group is uniquely
to a common association group. As described in
identiﬁed by the combination of the following ﬁelds in the ASSOCIATION object: Association
Type, Association ID, Association Source, and (if present) Global Association Source or Extended
Association ID.

[RFC8697]

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

This document deﬁnes a new Association type, called "Disjoint Association" (2), based on the
generic ASSOCIATION object. This new Association type is also called "DAT", for "Disjoint
Association Type".

 speciﬁes the mechanism for the capability advertisement of the Association types

[RFC8697]
supported by a PCEP speaker by deﬁning an ASSOC-Type-List TLV to be carried within an OPEN
object. This capability exchange for the DAT (2)
association. Thus, the PCEP speaker
MUST
receive the same from the PCEP peer before using the Disjoint Association Group (DAG) in PCEP
messages.

 include the DAT in the ASSOC-Type-List TLV and

 be done before using the disjoint

MUST

MUST

, the association group could be manually created by the operator on the PCEP peers,

This Association type is considered to be both dynamic and operator-conﬁgured in nature. As per
[RFC8697]
and the LSPs belonging to this association are conveyed via PCEP messages to the PCEP peer;
alternately, the association group could be created dynamically by the PCEP speaker, and both
the association group information and the LSPs belonging to the association group are conveyed
to the PCEP peer. The Operator-conﬁgured Association Range
type to mark a range of Association Identiﬁers that are used for operator-conﬁgured associations
to avoid any Association Identiﬁer clash within the scope of the Association Source. (Refer to
[RFC8697]

 be set for this association-

MUST

.)

A Disjoint Association Group can have two or more LSPs, but a PCE may be limited in the number
of LSPs it can take into account when computing disjointness. If a PCE receives more LSPs in the
 apply disjointness computation
group than it can handle in its computation algorithm, it
to only a subset of LSPs in the group. The subset of disjoint LSPs will be decided by PCE as a local
policy. Local polices
 deﬁne the computational behavior for the other LSPs in the group. For
example, the PCE may provide no path, a shortest path, or a constrained path based on relaxing
disjointness, etc. The disjoint status of the computed path is informed to the PCC via the
DISJOINTNESS-STATUS TLV (see Section 5.2).

SHOULD

MAY

There are diﬀerent types of disjointness identiﬁed by the ﬂags (T, S, N, and L) in the
DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION TLV (see Section 5.2). All LSPs in a particular Disjoint
Association Group
CONFIGURATION TLV. If a PCEP peer receives a PCEP message for LSPs belonging to the same
Disjoint Association Group but having an inconsistent combination of T, S, N, and L ﬂags, the
PCEP peer
 add the LSPs to the Disjoint Association Group and
with Error-Type 26 (Association Error) and Error-value 6 (Association information mismatch).

 use the same combination of T, S, N, and L ﬂags in the DISJOINTNESS-

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

 reply with a PCErr

MAY

 be associated to multiple Disjoint Association Groups, but in that case, the

 try to consider all the Disjoint Association Groups during path computation, if
 deﬁne the computational behavior. If a PCE does not

A particular LSP
PCE
SHOULD
possible. Otherwise, a local policy
support such a path computation, it
return a PCErr with Error-Type 26 (Association Error) and Error-value 7 (Cannot join the
association group).

 add the LSP into the association group and

MUST NOT

MAY

MUST

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

5.2.  Disjoint TLVs

The Disjoint Association Group (ASSOCIATION object with Association type = 2 for DAT)
carry the following TLV:

MUST

•

DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION TLV: Used to communicate some disjointness conﬁguration
parameters. This is applicable for all PCEP messages that include DAG.

In addition, the Disjoint Association Group (ASSOCIATION object with Association type = 2 for
DAT)

 carry the following TLVs:

MAY

•

DISJOINTNESS-STATUS TLV: Used to communicate the status of the computed disjointness.
This is applicable for messages from a PCE to a PCC only (i.e., PCUpd, PCInitiate, or PCRep
messages).

•

VENDOR-INFORMATION-TLV: Used to communicate arbitrary vendor-speciﬁc behavioral
information, described in

[RFC7470]

.

•

OF-List TLV: Used to communicate the disjointness objective function. See Section 5.3.

The DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION TLV is shown in the following ﬁgure:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|         Type = 46             |            Length             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Flags                               |T|P|S|N|L|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION TLV

Type:

46

Length:

Fixed value of 4 bytes.

Flags:

L (Link Diverse) bit:

When set, this indicates that the computed paths within the Disjoint

Association Group

MUST NOT

 have any link in common.

N (Node Diverse) bit:

When set, this indicates that the computed paths within the Disjoint

Association Group

MUST NOT

 have any node in common.

S (SRLG Diverse) bit:

Association Group

When set, this indicates that the computed paths within the Disjoint
 share any SRLG (Shared Risk Link Group).

MUST NOT

P (Shortest Path) bit:

When set, this indicates that the computed path of the LSP

SHOULD

satisfy all the constraints and objective functions ﬁrst without considering the
diversity constraint. This means that all of the LSPs with P ﬂag set in the association

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

group are computed ﬁrst, as if the disjointness constraint has not been conﬁgured;
then, with those LSPs ﬁxed, the other LSPs with P ﬂag unset in the association group
are computed by taking into account the disjointness constraint. The role of P ﬂag is
further described with examples in Section 5.5.

T (Strict Disjointness) bit:

When set, if disjoint paths cannot be found, the PCE

MUST

return no path for LSPs that could not be disjoint. When unset, the PCE is allowed to
relax disjointness by either applying a requested objective function (cf. Section 5.3)
or using the local policy if no objective function is requested (e.g., using a lower
disjoint type (link instead of node) or fully relaxing disjointness constraint). See
Section 5.6 for further details.

Unassigned bits:

transmission and

Unassigned bits are considered reserved. They
 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

MUST

 be set to 0 on

If a PCEP speaker receives a Disjoint Association Group (ASSOCIATION object with Association
type = 2 for DAT) without the DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION TLV, it
Error-Type 6 (Mandatory Object missing) and Error-value 15 (DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION
TLV missing).

 reply with a PCErr

SHOULD

The DISJOINTNESS-STATUS TLV uses the same format as the DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION
TLV with a diﬀerent type 47 (in the TLV). The L, N, and S ﬂags are set if the respective
disjointness criterion was requested and the computed paths meet it. The P ﬂag indicates that the
computed path is the shortest path (computed ﬁrst without taking disjointness constraints into
consideration but considering other constraints).

The T ﬂag has no meaning in the DISJOINTNESS-STATUS TLV and
and

 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

MUST NOT

 be set while sending

Any document deﬁning a new ﬂag for the DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION TLV automatically
deﬁnes a new ﬂag with the same name and in the same location in DISJOINTNESS-STATUS TLV;
the semantics of the ﬂag in the DISJOINTNESS-STATUS TLV
MUST
that speciﬁes the ﬂag in the DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION TLV.

 be speciﬁed in the document

5.3.  Disjointness Objective Functions

MAY

 be applied to the disjointness computation to drive the PCE

An objective function (OF)
computation behavior. In this case, the OF-List TLV (deﬁned in
) is used as an optional
TLV in the ASSOCIATION object. Whereas the PCEP OF-List TLV allows multiple OF-codes inside
the TLV, a sender
Association Group, and the receiver
included.

 include a single OF-code in the OF-List TLV when included in the

 consider the ﬁrst OF-code only and ignore others if

[RFC5541]

SHOULD

MUST

To minimize the common shared resources (Node, Link, or SRLG) between a set of paths during
path computation, three new OF-codes are deﬁned:

MSL

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

Minimize the number of Shared (common) Links.

Name:
Objective Function Code:
Description:

15

Find a set of paths such that it passes through the least number of shared

(common) links.

◦

◦

◦

◦

MSS

A network comprises a set of N links {Li, (i=1...N)}.

A path P passes through K links {Lpi,(i=1...K)}.

A set of paths {P1...Pm} have L links that are common to more than one path {Lci,
(i=1...L)}.

Find a set of paths such that the value of L is minimized.

Minimize the number of Shared (common) SRLGs.

Name:
Objective Function Code:
Description:

16

Find a set of paths such that it passes through the least number of shared

(common) SRLGs.

◦

◦

◦

◦

A network comprises a set of N links {Li, (i=1...N)}.

A path P passes through K links {Lpi,(i=1...K)} belonging to unique M SRLGs {Spi,
(i=1..M)}.

A set of paths {P1...Pm} have L SRLGs that are common to more than one path {Sci,
(i=1...L)}.

Find a set of paths such that the value of L is minimized.

MSN

Minimize the number of Shared (common) Nodes.

Name:
Objective Function Code:
Description:

17

Find a set of paths such that they pass through the least number of shared

(common) nodes.

◦

◦

◦

◦

A network comprises a set of N nodes {Ni, (i=1...N)}.

A path P passes through K nodes {Npi,(i=1...K)}.

A set of paths {P1...Pm} have L nodes that are common to more than one path {Nci,
(i=1...L)}.

Find a set of paths such that the value of L is minimized.

If the OF-List TLV is included in the ASSOCIATION object, the ﬁrst OF-code inside the OF object
 be one of the disjoint OFs deﬁned in this document. If this condition is not met, the PCEP
MUST
speaker
and Error-value 32 (Incompatible OF code).

 respond with a PCErr message with Error-Type 10 (Reception of an invalid object)

MUST

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

5.4.  Relationship to SVEC

 deﬁnes a mechanism for the synchronization of a set of path computation requests by

[RFC5440]
using the SVEC object, which speciﬁes the list of synchronized requests that can be either
dependent or independent. The SVEC object identiﬁes the relationship between the set of path
computation requests, identiﬁed by 'Request-ID-number' in the RP (Request Parameters) object.
[RFC6007]
computing dependent requests and describes a number of usage scenarios for SVEC lists within
single-domain and multi-domain environments.

 further clariﬁes the use of the SVEC list for synchronized path computations when

MUST

The SVEC object includes a Flags ﬁeld that indicates the potential dependency between the set of
path computation requests in a similar way as the Flags ﬁeld in the TLVs deﬁned in this
document. The path computation request in the Path Computation Request (PCReq) message
MAY
use both the SVEC and ASSOCIATION objects to identify the related path computation request, as
well as the DAG. The PCE
that the diversity requirement in the association group is diﬀerent from the one in the SVEC
object. The PCE
 consider both the objects (including the ﬂags set inside the objects) as per
the processing rules and aim to ﬁnd a path that meets both of these constraints. In case no such
path is possible, the PCE
indicating path computation failure, as per
[RFC5440]
association group can be fully same or partially overlapping with the LSPs grouped by the SVEC
object in PCReq message.

 send a Path Computation Reply (PCRep) with a NO-PATH object
. It should be noted that the LSPs in the

 try to ﬁnd a path that meets both the constraints. It is possible

MUST

MUST

Some examples of usage are listed below:

•

PCReq with SVEC object with node-diverse bit=1 (LSP1,LSP2) and DAG with S=1 (LSP1,LSP2) -
both node- and SRLG-diverse path between LSP1 and LSP2.

•

PCReq with SVEC object with link-diverse bit=1 (LSP1,LSP2) and DAG with L=1 (LSP1,LSP3) -
link-diverse paths between LSP1 and LSP2 and between LSP1 and LSP3. If the DAG is part of
the stateful database, any future change in LSP3 will have an impact on LSP1. But any future
change in LSP2 will have no impact on LSP1, as LSP2 is part of SVEC object (which is
considered once on receipt of the PCReq message only).

5.4.1.  SVEC and OF

This document deﬁnes three new OF-codes in Section 5.3 to maximize diversity as much as
possible. In other words, new OF-codes allow speciﬁcation of minimization of common shared
resources (Node, Link, or SRLG) among a set of paths during path computation.

It may be interesting to note that the diversity ﬂags in the SVEC object and OF for diversity can be
used together. Some examples of usage are listed below:

•

SVEC object with node-diverse bit=1 - ensure full node diversity.

•

SVEC object with node-diverse bit=1 and OF=MSS - full node diversity with as much SRLG
diversity as possible.

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

•

SVEC object with domain-diverse bit=1
domain and node diversity with as much SRLG diversity as possible.

[RFC8685]

; node-diverse bit=1, and OF=MSS - full

•

SVEC object with node-diverse bit=1 and OF=MSN - ensure full node diversity.

In the last example above, it is interesting to note that "OF" becomes redundant as "SVEC object"
ensures full node diversity; however, this speciﬁcation does not prohibit redundant constraints
while using "SVEC object" and "OF" together for diversity.

5.5.  P Flag Considerations

As mentioned in Section 5.2, the P ﬂag (when set) indicates that the computed path of the LSP
SHOULD
constraint.

 satisfy all constraints and objective functions ﬁrst without considering the diversity

This means that an LSP with the P ﬂag set should be placed ﬁrst, as if the disjointness constraint
has not been conﬁgured, while the other LSPs in the association with the P ﬂag unset should be
placed by taking into account the disjointness constraint. Setting the P ﬂag changes the
relationship between LSPs to a one-sided relationship (LSP 1 with P=0 depends on LSP 2 with
P=1, but LSP 2 with P=1 does not depend on LSP 1 with P=0). Multiple LSPs in the same Disjoint
Association Group may have the P ﬂag set. In such a case, those LSPs may not be disjoint from
each other but will be disjoint from other LSPs in the group that have the P ﬂag unset.

This could be required in some primary/backup scenarios where the primary path should use
the more optimal path available (taking into account the other constraints). When disjointness is
computed, it is important for the algorithm to know that it should try to optimize the path of one
or more LSPs in the Disjoint Association Group (for instance, the primary path), while other
paths are allowed to be costlier (compared to a similar path without the disjointness constraint).
Without such a hint, the disjointness algorithm may set a path for all LSPs that may not
completely fulﬁll the customer's requirement.

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

         _________________________________________
        /                                         \
       /        +------+                           \
      |         | PCE  |                            |
      |         +------+                            |
      |                                             |
      |                                             |
      | +------+           10             +------+  |
CE1 ****| PE 1 | ----- R1 ---- R2 ------- | PE 2 |**** CE2
      | +------+       |        |         +------+  |
      |                |        |                   |
      |                |        |                   |
      | +------+       |        |         +------+  |
CE3 ****| PE 3 | ----- R3 ---- R4 ------- | PE 4 |**** CE4
      | +------+ \     |               /  +------+  |
      |           \    |     10       /             |
       \           +-- R5 --------- R6             /
        \_________________________________________/

Figure 4: Example Topology with Six Internal Routers

Note: In Figure 4, the cost of all the links is 1, unless explicitly marked otherwise.

In the ﬁgure above, a customer has two dual-homed sites (CE1/CE3 and CE2/CE4). Let us consider
that this customer wants two link disjoint paths between the two sites. Due to physical meshing,
the customer wants to use CE1 and CE2 as the primary (and CE3 and CE4 are hosted in a remote
site for redundancy purpose).

Without any hint (constraint) provided, the PCE may compute the two link disjoint LSPs together,
leading to PE1->PE2 using path PE1->R1->R2->PE2 and PE3->PE4 using PE3->R3->R4->PE4. In this
case, even if the disjointness constraint is fulﬁlled, the path from PE1 to PE2 does not use the best
optimal path available in the network (path delay may be higher); the customer requirement is
thus not completely fulﬁlled.

The usage of the P ﬂag allows the PCE to know that a particular LSP should be tied to the best
path, as if the disjointness constraint was not requested.

In our example, if the P ﬂag is set to the LSP PE1->PE2, the PCE should use the path PE1->R1->R3-
>R4->R2->PE2 for this LSP, while the other LSP should be link disjoint from this path. The second
LSP will be placed on PE3->R5->R6->PE4, as it is allowed to be costlier.

Driving the PCE disjointness computation may be done in other ways, for instance, setting a
metric boundary reﬂecting a path delay boundary. Other constraints may also be used.

The P ﬂag allows to simply express that the disjointness constraint should not make the LSP
worst.

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

Any constraint added to a path disjointness computation may reduce the chance to ﬁnd suitable
paths. The usage of the P ﬂag, as any other constraint, may prevent ﬁnding a disjoint path. In the
example above, if we consider that router R5 is down and if PE1->PE2 has the P ﬂag set, there is
no room available to place PE3->PE4 (the link disjointness constraint cannot be fulﬁlled). If PE1-
>PE2 has the P ﬂag unset, the algorithm may be able to place PE1->PE2 on the R1->R2 link leaving
room for PE3->PE4 using the R3->R4 link. When using the P ﬂag or any additional constraint on
top of the disjointness constraint, the user should be aware that there is less chance to fulﬁll the
disjointness constraint.

         _________________________________________
        /                                         \
       /        +------+                           \
      |         | PCE  |                            |
      |         +------+                            |
      |                                             |
      |                                             |
      | +------+           10             +------+  |
CE1 ****| PE 1 | ----- R1 ---- R2 ------- | PE 2 |**** CE2
      | +------+       |  \     |         +------+  |
      |                |   \2   |                   |
      |                |    \   |                   |
      | +------+       |     \  |         +------+  |
CE3 ****| PE 3 | ----- R3 ---- R4 ------- | PE 4 |**** CE4
      | +------+                          +------+  |
      |                                             |
       \                                           /
        \_________________________________________/

Figure 5: Example Topology with Four Internal Routers

Note: In Figure 5, the cost of all the links is 1, unless explicitly marked otherwise.

In the ﬁgure above, we still consider the same previous requirements, so PE1->PE2 LSP should be
optimized (P ﬂag set), while PE3->PE4 should be link disjoint and may use a costlier path.

Regarding PE1->PE2, there are two paths that are satisfying the constraints (ECMP): PE1->R1->R4-
>R2->PE2 (path 1) and PE1->R1->R3->R4->R2->PE2 (path 2). An implementation may choose one of
the paths.

If the implementation elects only one path, there is a chance that picking up one path may
prevent link disjointness. In our example, if path 2 is used for PE1->PE2, there is no room left for
PE3->PE4, while if path 1 is used, PE3->PE4 can be placed on R3->R4 link.

When the P ﬂag is set for an LSP and when ECMPs are available, an implementation should aim
to select a path that allows disjointness.

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

5.6.  Disjointness Computation Issues

There may be some cases where the PCE is not able to provide a set of disjoint paths for one or
more LSPs in the association.

MUST

When the T ﬂag is set (Strict disjointness), if disjointness cannot be ensured for one or more LSPs,
the PCE
PCRpt message, the PCE
Error-value 7 (Cannot join the association group).

 reply to a PCReq with a PCRep message containing a NO-PATH object. In case of a

 return a PCErr message with Error-Type 26 (Association Error) and

MUST

In case of a network event leading to an impossible strict disjointness, the PCE
PCUpd message containing an empty Explicit Route Object (ERO) to the corresponding PCCs. In
addition to the empty ERO object, the PCE
 in the
LSP object.

 add the NO-PATH-VECTOR TLV

[RFC5440]

 send a

MUST

MAY

This document adds new bits in the Flags ﬁeld of the NO-PATH-VECTOR TLV:

•

bit 11: When set, the PCE indicates that it could not ﬁnd a disjoint path for this LSP.

•

bit 10: When set, the PCE indicates that it does not support the requested disjointness
computation.

When the T ﬂag is unset, the PCE is allowed to relax disjointness by applying a requested
objective function (Section 5.3) if speciﬁed. Otherwise, if no objective function is speciﬁed, the
PCE is allowed to reduce the required level of disjointness as it deems ﬁt. The actual level of
disjointness of the paths computed by the PCE can be reported through the DISJOINTNESS-
STATUS TLV by setting the appropriate ﬂags in the TLV. While the DISJOINTNESS-
CONFIGURATION TLV deﬁnes the desired level of disjointness required by conﬁguration, the
DISJOINTNESS-STATUS TLV deﬁnes the achieved level of disjointness computed.

There are some cases where the PCE may need to completely relax the disjointness constraint in
order to provide a path to all the LSPs that are part of the association. A mechanism that allows
the PCE to fully relax a constraint is considered by the authors as more global to PCEP rather
than linked to the disjointness use case. As a consequence, it is considered out of scope of the
 for a proposed mechanism.
document. See

[PCE-OPTIONAL]

6.  Security Considerations

This document deﬁnes one new PCEP Association type, which by itself does not add any new
[RFC8697]
security concerns beyond those discussed in
adding of a spurious LSP into the Disjoint Association Group could lead to recomputation and
setup of all LSPs in the group, which could be used to overwhelm the PCE and the network.

[RFC5440] [RFC8231] [RFC7470]

, and

,

,

. But

A spurious LSP can have ﬂags that are inconsistent with those of the legitimate LSPs of the group
and thus cause LSP allocation for the legitimate LSPs to fail with an error. Also, certain
combinations of ﬂags (notably, the 'T' bit) can result in conﬂicts that cannot be resolved.

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

[RFC8697]

, much of the information carried in the ASSOCIATION object reﬂects

Also, as stated in
information that can also be derived from the LSP database, but association provides a much
easier grouping of related LSPs and messages. This holds true for the DAT as well; thus, this could
provide an adversary with the opportunity to eavesdrop on the relationship between the LSPs
and understand the network topology.

Thus, securing the PCEP session using Transport Layer Security (TLS)
, is
recommendations and best current practices in BCP 195

[RFC7525]

, as per the
[RFC8253]
.
RECOMMENDED

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Association Type

This document deﬁnes a new Association type, originally described in
assigned the following new value in the "ASSOCIATION Type Field" subregistry
the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry:

[RFC8697]

. IANA has

[RFC8697]

 within

Type Name

Reference

2

Disjoint Association

RFC 8800

Table 1: ASSOCIATION Type Field

7.2.  PCEP TLVs

This document deﬁnes two new PCEP TLVs. IANA has assigned the following values in the "PCEP
TLV Type Indicators" subregistry within the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP)
Numbers" registry:

TLV Type

TLV Name

Reference

46

47

DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION RFC 8800

DISJOINTNESS-STATUS

RFC 8800

Table 2: PCEP TLV Type Indicators

IANA has created a new subregistry, named "DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION TLV Flag Field",
within the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry to manage the Flags
ﬁeld in the DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION TLV. New values are to be assigned by Standards
Action

. Each bit should be tracked with the following qualities:

[RFC8126]

•

Bit number (count from 0 as the most signiﬁcant bit)

•

Flag Name

•

Reference

The initial contents of this subregistry are shown below:

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

Bit

Name

Reference

31

30

29

28

27

L - Link Diverse

RFC 8800

N - Node Diverse

RFC 8800

S - SRLG Diverse

RFC 8800

P - Shortest Path

RFC 8800

T - Strict Disjointness

RFC 8800

0-26

Unassigned

Table 3: DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION TLV
Flag Field

7.3.  Objective Functions

This document deﬁnes three new objective functions. IANA has made the following allocations in
the "Objective Function" subregistry within the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP)
Numbers" registry:

Code Point Name

Reference

15

16

17

Minimize the number of Shared Links (MSL)

RFC 8800

Minimize the number of Shared SRLGs (MSS)

RFC 8800

Minimize the number of Shared Nodes (MSN)

RFC 8800

Table 4: Objective Function

7.4.  NO-PATH-VECTOR Bit Flags

This document deﬁnes new bits for the NO-PATH-VECTOR TLV in the "NO-PATH-VECTOR TLV Flag
Field" subregistry of the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry. IANA
has made the following allocations:

Bit Number Name

Disjoint path not found

11

10

Reference

RFC 8800

Requested disjoint computation not supported

RFC 8800

Table 5: NO-PATH-VECTOR TLV Flag Field

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

7.5.  PCEP-ERROR Codes

This document deﬁnes two new Error-values within existing Error-Types related to disjoint
association. IANA has allocated the following new Error-values in the "PCEP-ERROR Object Error
Types and Values" subregistry within the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers"
registry:

Error-
Type

6

Meaning

Error-value

Reference

Mandatory Object
missing

[RFC5440]

10

Reception of an invalid
object

15: DISJOINTNESS-CONFIGURATION
TLV missing

RFC 8800

[RFC5440]

32: Incompatible OF code

RFC 8800

Table 6: PCEP-ERROR Object Error Types and Values

8.  Manageability Considerations

8.1.  Control of Function and Policy

SHOULD

 be allowed to conﬁgure the Disjoint Association Groups and disjoint

An operator
parameters at the PCEP peers and associate them with the LSPs. The operator
set the Operator-conﬁgured Association Range. The operator
SHOULD
policies to deﬁne various disjoint computational behavior at the PCE.

MUST

 be allowed to set the local

 be allowed to

8.2.  Information and Data Models

SHOULD

An implementation
created dynamically. Furthermore, implementations
reported by each peer and the current set of LSPs in this association. The PCEP YANG module
[PCEP-YANG]

 allow the operator to view the disjoint associations conﬁgured or

 includes association group information.

 allow to view disjoint associations

SHOULD

8.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new liveness detection and monitoring
requirements in addition to those already listed in

.
[RFC5440]

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

8.4.  Veriﬁcation of Correct Operations

Apart from the operation veriﬁcation requirements already listed in
implementation
number of DAG, number of disjoint path computation failures, etc. A PCEP implementation
SHOULD

 provide parameters related to disjoint path computation, such as

 log failure events (e.g., incompatible Flags).

[RFC5440]

, a PCEP

SHOULD

8.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new requirements on other protocols.

8.6.  Impact on Network Operations

Section 8.6 of [RFC5440]
Mechanisms deﬁned in
document. Additionally, a PCEP implementation
number of LSPs that can belong to a DAG.

 also apply to PCEP extensions deﬁned in this
SHOULD

 allow a limit to be placed on the

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5440]

[RFC5541]

[RFC7470]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Vasseur, JP., Ed. and JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)
,
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

,

.

, March 2009,

Le Roux, JL., Vasseur, JP., and Y. Lee "Encoding of Objective Functions in the
Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5541 DOI
10.17487/RFC5541

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5541>

, June 2009,

,

,

Zhang, F. and A. Farrel "Conveying Vendor-Speciﬁc Constraints in the Path
Computation Element Communication Protocol" RFC 7470 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7470

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7470>

, March 2015,

,

,

.

,

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

[RFC8231]

[RFC8253]

[RFC8685]

[RFC8697]

Crabbe, E., Minei, I., Medved, J., and R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

,

,

,

.

Lopez, D., Gonzalez de Dios, O., Wu, Q., and D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
,
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

, October 2017,

<https://

,

.

,

Zhang, F., Zhao, Q., Gonzalez de Dios, O., Casellas, R., and D. King "Path
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for the
,
Hierarchical Path Computation Element (H-PCE) Architecture" RFC 8685 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8685>
10.17487/RFC8685

, December 2019,

,

,

,

Minei, I., Crabbe, E., Sivabalan, S., Ananthakrishnan, H., Dhody, D., and Y.
Tanaka "Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions
for Establishing Relationships between Sets of Label Switched Paths (LSPs)" RFC
,
8697 DOI 10.17487/RFC8697
rfc8697>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2020,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[PCE-OPTIONAL]

,
Li, C., Zheng, H., and S. Litkowski "Extension for Stateful PCE to allow
,
Optional Processing of PCEP Objects" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
dhody-pce-stateful-pce-optional-06
dhody-pce-stateful-pce-optional-06>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-

, 9 July 2020,

,

.

[PCEP-YANG]

[RFC4655]

[RFC6007]

[RFC7525]

[RFC8281]

Dhody, D., Hardwick, J., Beeram, V., and J. Tantsura "A YANG Data Model for
Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-14
html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-14>

<https://tools.ietf.org/

, 7 July 2020,

,

.

,

,

Farrel, A., Vasseur, J.-P., and J. Ash "A Path Computation Element (PCE)-Based
,
Architecture" RFC 4655 DOI 10.17487/RFC4655
.
editor.org/info/rfc4655>

, August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Nishioka, I. and D. King "Use of the Synchronization VECtor (SVEC) List for
Synchronized Dependent Path Computations" RFC 6007 DOI 10.17487/RFC6007
September 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6007>

,

,

.

,

,

,
Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Crabbe, E., Minei, I., Sivabalan, S., and R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

,

,

.

,

<https://

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8800

PCEP Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint Signaling

July 2020

Acknowledgments

A special thanks to the authors of
authors would also like to thank

[RFC8697]
Adrian Farrel

; this document borrows some text from it. The

 and

Julien Meuric

 for the valuable comments.

Thanks to

Emmanuel Baccelli

 for the RTGDIR review.

Thanks to

Dale Worley

 for a detailed GENART review.

Thanks to
Éric Vyncke

 for the IESG review.

Alvaro Retana Benjamin Kaduk Suresh Krishnan Roman Danyliw Alissa Cooper

,

,

,

,

, and

Contributors

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei Technologies
Divyashree Techno Park, Whiteﬁled
Bangalore 560066
Karnataka
India
Email:

 dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

Authors' Addresses

Stephane Litkowski
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

 slitkows.ietf@gmail.com

Siva Sivabalan
Ciena Corporation
Email:

 msiva282@gmail.com

Colby Barth
Juniper Networks
Email:

 cbarth@juniper.net

Mahendra Singh Negi
RtBrick India
N-17L, Floor-1, 18th Cross Rd, HSR Layout Sector-3
Bangalore 560102
Karnataka
India
Email:

 mahend.ietf@gmail.com

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

