Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8925
2563
Standards Track
October 2020
2070-1721
L. Colitti
Google

J. Linkova
Google

M. Richardson
Sandelman

T. Mrugalski
ISC

RFC 8925
IPv6-Only Preferred Option for DHCPv4

Abstract

This document speciﬁes a DHCPv4 option to indicate that a host supports an IPv6-only mode and
is willing to forgo obtaining an IPv4 address if the network provides IPv6 connectivity. It also
updates RFC 2563 to specify DHCPv4 server behavior when the server receives a DHCPDISCOVER
not containing the Auto-Conﬁgure option but containing the new option deﬁned in this
document.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8925

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8925

IPv6-Only Preferred Option for DHCPv4

October 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Terminology

2.  Reasons to Signal IPv6-Only Support in DHCPv4 Packets

3.  IPv6-Only Preferred Option

3.1.  Option Format

3.2.  DHCPv4 Client Behavior

3.3.  DHCPv4 Server Behavior

3.3.1.  Interaction with RFC 2563

3.4.  Constants and Conﬁguration Variables

4.  IPv6-Only Transition Technology Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

One of the biggest challenges of deploying IPv6-only LANs is that such networks might contain a
rather heterogeneous collection of hosts. While some hosts are capable of operating in IPv6-only
mode (either because the OS and all applications are IPv6-only capable or because the host has
some form of 464XLAT
 deployed), others might still have IPv4 dependencies and need
IPv4 addresses to operate properly. To incrementally roll out IPv6-only, network operators might
need to provide IPv4 on demand, whereby a host receives an IPv4 address if it needs it, while
IPv6-only-capable hosts (such as modern mobile devices) are not allocated IPv4 addresses.
Traditionally, that goal is achieved by placing IPv6-only-capable devices in a dedicated IPv6-only

[RFC6877]

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8925

IPv6-Only Preferred Option for DHCPv4

October 2020

network segment or Wi-Fi Service Set Identiﬁer (SSID), while dual-stack devices reside in another
network with IPv4 and DHCPv4 enabled. However, such an approach has a number of
drawbacks, including, but not limited to, the following:

•

Doubling the number of network segments leads to operational complexity and impact on
performance -- for instance, due to high memory utilization caused by an increased number
of Access Control List (ACL) entries.

•

Placing a host in the correct network segment is problematic. For example, in the case of
802.11 Wi-Fi, the user might select the wrong SSID. In the case of wired 802.1x
authentication, the authentication server might not have all the information required to
make the correct decision and choose between an IPv6-only VLAN and a dual-stack VLAN.

It would be beneﬁcial for IPv6 deployment if operators could implement IPv6-mostly (or IPv4-on-
demand) segments where IPv6-only hosts coexist with legacy dual-stack devices. The trivial
solution of disabling the IPv4 stack on IPv6-only-capable hosts is not feasible, as those clients
must be able to operate on IPv4-only networks as well. While IPv6-only-capable devices might
use a heuristic approach to learning if the network provides IPv6-only functionality and stop
using IPv4 if it does, such an approach might be undesirable in practice. One important reason is
that when a host connects to a network, it does not know whether the network is IPv4-only, dual-
stack, or IPv6-only. To ensure that connectivity over whatever protocol is present becomes
available as soon as possible, the host usually starts conﬁguring both IPv4 and IPv6 immediately.
If hosts were to delay requesting IPv4 until IPv6 reachability is conﬁrmed, that would penalize
IPv4-only and dual-stack networks, which does not seem practical. Requesting IPv4 and then
releasing it later, after IPv6 reachability is conﬁrmed, might cause errors that are visible to users,
as it would be disruptive for applications that have already started using the assigned IPv4
address. Instead, it would be useful to have a mechanism that would allow a host to indicate that
its request for an IPv4 address is optional and a network to signal that IPv6-only functionality
(such as NAT64
DHCPv4 option that a client uses to indicate that it does not need an IPv4 address if the network
provides IPv6-only connectivity (as NAT64 and DNS64). If the particular network segment
provides IPv4 on demand, such clients would not be supplied with IPv4 addresses, while IPv4
addresses would be provided on IPv4-only or dual-stack segments without NAT64 services.

) is available. This document provides such a solution via a new

[RFC6146]

[RFC2563]
if no address is chosen for a host. This document updates
the DHCPOFFER contains the IPv6-Only Preferred option.

 introduced the Auto-Conﬁgure DHCPv4 option and describes DHCPv4 server behavior
 to modify server behavior if

[RFC2563]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Terminology

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8925

IPv6-Only Preferred Option for DHCPv4

October 2020

Dual-stack network or device:

A network or device that has both versions of the Internet

Protocol (IPv4 and IPv6) enabled and operational.

IPv6-only-capable host:

A host that does not require an IPv4 address and can operate on IPv6-
only networks. More precisely, IPv6-only capability is speciﬁc to a given interface of the host:
if some applications on a host require IPv4 and the 464XLAT CLAT (customer-side translator)
[RFC6877]
NAT64 network via that interface. This document implies that IPv6-only-capable hosts reach
IPv4-only destinations via a NAT64 service provided by the network. Section 4 discusses
hypothetical scenarios for other transition technologies being used.

 is only enabled on one interface, the host is IPv6-only capable if connected to a

IPv4-requiring host:

A host that is not IPv6-only capable and cannot operate in an IPv6-only

network providing NAT64 service.

IPv4 on demand:

A deployment scenario where end hosts are expected to operate in IPv6-only
mode by default and IPv4 addresses can be assigned to some hosts if those hosts explicitly opt
in to receive IPv4 addresses.

IPv6-mostly network:

A network that provides NAT64 (possibly with DNS64) service as well as
IPv4 connectivity and allows the coexistence of IPv6-only, dual-stack, and IPv4-only hosts on
the same segment. Such a deployment scenario allows operators to incrementally turn oﬀ
IPv4 on end hosts, while still providing IPv4 to devices that require IPv4 to operate. But IPv6-
only-capable devices need not be assigned IPv4 addresses.

IPv6-only mode:

A mode of operation where a host acts as an IPv6-only-capable host and does
 may have

[RFC3927]

not have IPv4 addresses assigned (except that IPv4 link-local addresses
been conﬁgured).

IPv6-only network:

A network that does not provide routing functionality for IPv4 packets.
Such networks may or may not allow intra-LAN IPv4 connectivity. An IPv6-only network
usually provides access to IPv4-only resources via NAT64

[RFC6146]

.

NAT64:

Network Address and Protocol Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers

[RFC6146]

.

Router Advertisement (RA):

together with various link and Internet parameters

A message used by IPv6 routers to advertise their presence,
[RFC4861]

.

DNS64:

A mechanism for synthesizing AAAA records from A records

[RFC6147]

.

Network attachment event:

A link up event, as described by

[RFC4957]

, that results in a host

detecting an available network.

Disabling the IPv4 stack on the host interface:

Host behavior when the host

•

does not send any IPv4 packets from that interface,

•

drops all IPv4 packets received on that interface, and

•

does not forward any IPv4 packets to that interface.

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8925

IPv6-Only Preferred Option for DHCPv4

October 2020

2.  Reasons to Signal IPv6-Only Support in DHCPv4 Packets

For networks that contain a mix of both IPv6-only-capable hosts and IPv4-requiring hosts and
that utilize DHCPv4 for conﬁguring the IPv4 network stack on hosts, it seems natural to leverage
the same protocol to signal that IPv4 is discretional on a given segment. An ability to remotely
disable IPv4 on a host can be seen as a new denial-of-service attack vector. The approach
provided in this document limits the attack surface to DHCPv4-related attacks without
introducing new vulnerable elements.

Another beneﬁt of using DHCPv4 for signaling is that IPv4 will be disabled only if both the client
and the server indicate IPv6-only capability. It allows IPv6-only-capable hosts to turn oﬀ IPv4
only upon receiving an explicit signal from the network and operate in dual-stack or IPv4-only
mode otherwise. In addition, the mechanism deﬁned in this document does not introduce any
additional delays to the process of conﬁguring an IP stack on hosts. If the network does not
support IPv6-only/IPv4-on-demand mode, an IPv6-only-capable host would conﬁgure an IPv4
address as quickly as any other host.

Being a client/server protocol, DHCPv4 allows IPv4 to be selectively disabled on a per-host basis
on a given network segment. The coexistence of IPv6-only, dual-stack, and even IPv4-only hosts
on the same LAN would not only allow network administrators to preserve scarce IPv4 addresses
but would also drastically simplify incremental deployment of IPv6-only networks, positively
impacting IPv6 adoption.

3.  IPv6-Only Preferred Option

3.1.  Option Format

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |     Code      |   Length      |           Value               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |         Value (cont.)         |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: IPv6-Only Preferred Option Format

Fields:

Code:

8-bit identiﬁer of the IPv6-Only Preferred option code as assigned by IANA: 108. The
client includes the Code in the Parameter Request List in DHCPDISCOVER and DHCPREQUEST
messages as described in Section 3.2.

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8925

IPv6-Only Preferred Option for DHCPv4

October 2020

Length:

8-bit unsigned integer. The length of the option, excluding the Code and Length Fields.

The server
option if the length ﬁeld value is not 4.

 set the length ﬁeld to 4. The client

MUST

MUST

 ignore the IPv6-Only Preferred

Value:

32-bit unsigned integer. The number of seconds for which the client should disable

DHCPv4 (V6ONLY_WAIT conﬁguration variable). If the server pool is explicitly conﬁgured
with a V6ONLY_WAIT timer, the server
 set it to zero. The client
the server

 set the ﬁeld to that conﬁgured value. Otherwise,
 process that ﬁeld as described in Section 3.2.

MUST

MUST

MUST

The client never sets this ﬁeld, as it never sends the full option but includes the option code in
the Parameter Request List as described in Section 3.2.

3.2.  DHCPv4 Client Behavior

SHOULD

A DHCPv4 client
 allow a device administrator to conﬁgure IPv6-only capability either
for a speciﬁc interface (to indicate that the device is IPv6-only capable if connected to a NAT64
network via that interface) or for all interfaces. If only a speciﬁc interface is conﬁgured as IPv6-
only capable, the DHCPv4 client
purpose of sending/receiving DHCPv4 packets over any other interfaces.

 consider the host an IPv6-only-capable host for the

MUST NOT

The DHCPv4 client on an IPv4-requiring host
code in the Parameter Request List of any DHCPv4 packets and
packets received from DHCPv4 servers.

MUST NOT

 include the IPv6-Only Preferred option

MUST

 ignore that option in

DHCPv4 clients running on IPv6-only-capable hosts
option code in the Parameter Request List in DHCPDISCOVER and DHCPREQUEST messages for
interfaces so enabled and follow the processing as described below on a per-enabled-interface
basis.

 include the IPv6-Only Preferred

SHOULD

If the client did not include the IPv6-Only Preferred option code in the Parameter Request List in
the DHCPDISCOVER or DHCPREQUEST message, it
 ignore the IPv6-Only Preferred option in
any messages received from the server.

MUST

 request the IPv4 address provided in the DHCPOFFER. If the IPv6-Only Preferred

If the client includes the IPv6-Only Preferred option code in the Parameter Request List and the
DHCPOFFER message from the server contains a valid IPv6-Only Preferred option, the client
SHOULD NOT
option returned by the server contains a value greater than or equal to MIN_V6ONLY_WAIT, the
client
V6ONLY_WAIT timer to MIN_V6ONLY_WAIT. The client
process for V6ONLY_WAIT seconds or until a network attachment event, whichever happens
ﬁrst. The host
seconds or until the network attachment event, whichever happens ﬁrst.

 disable the IPv4 stack completely on the aﬀected interface for V6ONLY_WAIT

 set the V6ONLY_WAIT timer to that value. Otherwise, the client

 stop the DHCPv4 conﬁguration

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

 set the

MAY

SHOULD

The IPv6-Only Preferred option
DHCPREQUEST messages (after receiving a DHCPOFFER without this option, for an INIT-REBOOT,
or when renewing or rebinding a leased address). If the DHCPv4 server responds with a
DHCPACK that includes the IPv6-Only Preferred option, the client's behavior depends on the
client's state. If the client is in the INIT-REBOOT state, it

 be included in the Parameter Request List in

 stop the DHCPv4 conﬁguration

SHOULD

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8925

IPv6-Only Preferred Option for DHCPv4

October 2020

process or disable the IPv4 stack completely for V6ONLY_WAIT seconds or until the network
attachment event, whichever happens ﬁrst. It also
 send a DHCPRELEASE message. If the
client is in any other state, it
 continue to use the assigned IPv4 address until further
DHCPv4 reconﬁguration events.

SHOULD

MAY

If the client includes the IPv6-Only Preferred option code in the Parameter Request List and the
server responds with a DHCPOFFER message without a valid IPv6-Only Preferred option, the
client

 proceed as normal with a DHCPREQUEST.

MUST

If the client waits for multiple DHCPOFFER responses and selects one of them, it
MUST
processing for the IPv6-Only Preferred option based on the selected response. A client
the presence of the IPv6-Only Preferred option as a selection criterion.

 follow the
MAY

 use

MAY

 conﬁgure an IPv4 link-local address

When an IPv6-only-capable client receives the IPv6-Only Preferred option from the server, the
client
might still be able to communicate over IPv4 to other devices on the link. The Auto-Conﬁgure
option
Section 3.3.1 discusses the interaction between the IPv6-Only Preferred option and the Auto-
Conﬁgure option.

 can be used to control the autoconﬁguration of IPv4 link-local addresses.

. In that case, IPv6-only-capable devices

[RFC3927]

[RFC2563]

3.3.  DHCPv4 Server Behavior

SHOULD

The DHCPv4 server
Preferred option in DHCPv4 responses if the client included the option code in the Parameter
Request List. The DHCPv4 server
timer for all or individual IPv6-mostly pools.

 be able to conﬁgure all or individual pools to include the IPv6-Only

 have a conﬁguration option to specify the V6ONLY_WAIT

MAY

MUST NOT

The server
message if the selected pool is not conﬁgured as IPv6-mostly. The server
IPv6-Only Preferred option in the DHCPOFFER or DHCPACK message if the option was not
present in the Parameter Request List sent by the client.

 include the IPv6-Only Preferred option in the DHCPOFFER or DHCPACK
 include the

MUST NOT

MUST

SHOULD NOT

If the IPv6-Only Preferred option is present in the Parameter Request List received from the
client and the corresponding DHCPv4 pool is explicitly conﬁgured as belonging to an IPv6-mostly
network segment, the server
 include the IPv6-Only Preferred option when responding with
the DHCPOFFER or DHCPACK message. If the server responds with the IPv6-Only Preferred
option and the V6ONLY_WAIT timer is conﬁgured for the pool, the server
 set the ﬁeld to
conﬁgured value to the IPv6-Only Preferred option value ﬁeld. Otherwise, it
 return 0.0.0.0
zero. The server
as the oﬀered address. Alternatively, if oﬀering 0.0.0.0 is not feasible -- for example, due to some
limitations of the server or the network infrastructure -- the server
DHCPOFFER an available IPv4 address from the pool, as per recommendations in
this case, the oﬀered address
Because the client is not ever expected to request this address, the server
the address and
the address, the server
the address if it has not been committed to another client in the meantime.

. In
 be a valid address that is not committed to any other client.
 reserve

 verify its uniqueness. If the client then issues a DHCPREQUEST for
 process it per

 assign an address from the pool. Instead, it

, including replying with a DHCPACK for

 include in the

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD NOT

[RFC2131]

[RFC2131]

 copy the

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

MAY

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8925

IPv6-Only Preferred Option for DHCPv4

October 2020

If a client includes both a Rapid Commit option
the DHCPDISCOVER message, the server
response to the client would contain the IPv6-Only Preferred option. It
with a DHCPOFFER as indicated above.

SHOULD NOT

[RFC4039]

 and an IPv6-Only Preferred option in

 honor the Rapid Commit option if the

SHOULD

 instead respond

If the server receives a DHCPREQUEST containing the IPv6-Only Preferred option for the address
from a pool conﬁgured as IPv6-mostly, the server

 process it per

[RFC2131]

MUST

.

3.3.1.  Interaction with RFC 2563

[RFC2563]
 deﬁnes an Auto-Conﬁgure DHCPv4 option to disable IPv4 link-local address
conﬁguration for IPv4 clients. Clients can support both the IPv6-Only Preferred option and the
Auto-Conﬁgure option, just one of the options, or neither option. If a client sends both the IPv6-
Only Preferred option and the Auto-Conﬁgure option, the network administrator can prevent the
host from conﬁguring an IPv4 link-local address on an IPv6-mostly network. To achieve this, the
server needs to send a DHCPOFFER that contains a 'yiaddr' of 0.0.0.0, and the Auto-Conﬁgure ﬂag
set to "DoNotAutoConﬁgure".

However, special care should be taken in a situation where a server supports both options and
receives just an IPv6-Only Preferred option from a client.
address is chosen for the host (which would be the case for IPv6-only-capable clients on an IPv6-
mostly network), then "If the DHCPDISCOVER does not contain the Auto-Conﬁgure option, it is
not answered." Such behavior would be undesirable for clients supporting the IPv6-Only
Preferred option without supporting the Auto-Conﬁgure option, as they would not receive any
response from the server and would keep requesting a response instead of disabling DHCPv4 for
V6ONLY_WAIT seconds. Therefore, the following update is made to

.
Section 2.3 of [RFC2563]

Section 2.3 of [RFC2563]

 states that if no

OLD TEXT:

However, if no address is chosen for the host, a few additional steps

MUST

 be taken.

If the DHCPDISCOVER does not contain the Auto-Conﬁgure option, it is not answered.

NEW TEXT:

However, if no address is chosen for the host, a few additional steps

MUST

 be taken.

If the DHCPDISCOVER does not contain the Auto-Conﬁgure option and the IPv6-Only
Preferred option is not present, it is not answered. If the DHCPDISCOVER does not
contain the Auto-Conﬁgure option but contains the IPv6-Only Preferred option, the
processing rules for the IPv6-Only Preferred option apply.

3.4.  Constants and Conﬁguration Variables

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8925

IPv6-Only Preferred Option for DHCPv4

October 2020

V6ONLY_WAIT:
The value

The time for which the client

SHOULD

 stop the DHCPv4 conﬁguration process.

MUST NOT

 be less than MIN_V6ONLY_WAIT seconds. Default: 1800 seconds

MIN_V6ONLY_WAIT:

The lower boundary for V6ONLY_WAIT. Value: 300 seconds

4.  IPv6-Only Transition Technology Considerations

Until IPv6 adoption in the Internet reaches 100%, communication between an IPv6-only host and
an IPv4-only destination requires some form of a transition mechanism deployed in the network.
At the time of writing, the only such mechanism that is widely supported by end hosts is NAT64
[RFC6146]
sent by hosts capable of operating on NAT64 networks. In a typical deployment scenario, a
network administrator would not conﬁgure the DHCPv4 server to return the IPv6-Only Preferred
option unless the network provides NAT64 service.

 (either with or without 464XLAT). Therefore, the IPv6-Only Preferred option is only

Hypothetically, it is possible for multiple transition technologies to coexist. In such a scenario,
some form of negotiation would be required between a client and a server to ensure that the
transition technology supported by the client is the one the network provides. However, it seems
unlikely that any new transition technology would arise and be widely adopted in the
foreseeable future. Therefore, adding support for non-existing technologies seems to be
suboptimal, so this document implies that NAT64 is used to facilitate connectivity between IPv6
and IPv4. In the unlikely event that a new transition mechanism becomes widely deployed, the
applicability of the IPv6-Only Preferred option to that mechanism will depend on the nature of
the new mechanism. If the new mechanism is designed in such a way that it's fully transparent
for hosts that support NAT64 and the IPv6-Only Preferred option, then the option can continue to
be used with the new mechanism. If the new mechanism is not compatible with NAT64 and
implementation on the host side is required to support it, then a new DHCPv4 option needs to be
deﬁned.

It should also be noted that declaring a host (technically, a host interface) IPv6-only capable is a
policy decision. For example,

•

An OS vendor may make such a decision and conﬁgure their DHCPv4 clients to send the
 enabled.
IPv6-Only Preferred option by default if the OS has a 464XLAT CLAT

[RFC6877]

•

An enterprise network administrator may provision the corporate hosts as IPv6-only capable
if all applications that users are supposed to run have been tested in an IPv6-only
environment (or if a 464XLAT CLAT is enabled on the devices).

•

Internet of Things (IoT) devices may be shipped in IPv6-only-capable mode if they are
designed to connect to an IPv6-enabled cloud destination only.

5.  IANA Considerations

The IANA has assigned a new DHCPv4 option code for the IPv6-Only Preferred option from the
"BOOTP Vendor Extensions and DHCP Options" registry, located at
.
assignments/bootp-dhcp-parameters/>

<https://www.iana.org/

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8925

IPv6-Only Preferred Option for DHCPv4

October 2020

IPv6-Only Preferred

108

Tag:
Name:
Data Length:
Meaning:
Reference:

4

RFC 8925

Number of seconds that DHCPv4 should be disabled

6.  Security Considerations

An attacker might send a spoofed DHCPOFFER containing an IPv6-Only Preferred option with the
value ﬁeld set to a large number, such as 0xﬀﬀﬀﬀ, eﬀectively disabling DHCPv4 on clients
supporting the option. If the network is IPv4-only, such clients would lose connectivity, while on
a dual-stack network without NAT64 service, only connectivity to IPv4-only destinations would
be aﬀected. Recovery from such an attack would require triggering a network attachment event.
However, it should be noted that if the network does not provide protection from a rogue
DHCPv4 server, the similar attack vector can be executed by oﬀering an invalid address and
setting the Lease Time option
hosts -- not just hosts that support the IPv6-Only Preferred option. Therefore, the security
measures against rogue DHCPv4 servers would be suﬃcient to prevent attacks speciﬁc to the
IPv6-Only Preferred option. Additionally, such attacks can only be executed if the victim prefers
the rogue DHCPOFFER over legitimate oﬀers. Therefore, for the attack to be successful, the
attacker needs to know the selection criteria used by the client and be able to make its rogue
oﬀer preferable to other oﬀers.

 value ﬁeld to 0xﬀﬀﬀﬀ. The latter attack would aﬀect all

[RFC2132]

It should be noted that disabling IPv4 on a host upon receiving the IPv6-Only Preferred option
from the DHCPv4 server protects the host from IPv4-related attacks and therefore could be
considered a security feature, as it reduces the attack surface.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2131]

[RFC2563]

[RFC3927]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Droms, R. "Dynamic Host Conﬁguration Protocol" RFC 2131 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2131

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2131>

,
, March 1997,

,

,

.

,

Troll, R. "DHCP Option to Disable Stateless Auto-Conﬁguration in IPv4 Clients"
, May 1999,
RFC 2563 DOI 10.17487/RFC2563
rfc2563>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

,
Cheshire, S., Aboba, B., and E. Guttman "Dynamic Conﬁguration of IPv4 Link-
Local Addresses" RFC 3927 DOI 10.17487/RFC3927
.
editor.org/info/rfc3927>

, May 2005,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8925

IPv6-Only Preferred Option for DHCPv4

October 2020

[RFC4039]

[RFC8174]

Park, S., Kim, P., and B. Volz "Rapid Commit Option for the Dynamic Host
Conﬁguration Protocol version 4 (DHCPv4)" RFC 4039 DOI 10.17487/RFC4039
March 2005,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4039>
.

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC2132]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4957]

[RFC6146]

[RFC6147]

[RFC6877]

,
Alexander, S. and R. Droms "DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions" RFC
, March 1997,
,
2132 DOI 10.17487/RFC2132
rfc2132>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

.

,

Narten, T., Nordmark, E., Simpson, W., and H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, September 2007,

,

,

.

,

Krishnan, S., Ed., Montavont, N., Njedjou, E., Veerepalli, S., and A. Yegin, Ed.
,
"Link-Layer Event Notiﬁcations for Detecting Network Attachments" RFC 4957
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4957>
DOI 10.17487/RFC4957

, August 2007,

,

,

Bagnulo, M., Matthews, P., and I. van Beijnum "Stateful NAT64: Network
Address and Protocol Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers" RFC 6146
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6146

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6146>

, April 2011,

,

,

,

Bagnulo, M., Sullivan, A., Matthews, P., and I. van Beijnum "DNS64: DNS
Extensions for Network Address Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers"
, April 2011,
RFC 6147 DOI 10.17487/RFC6147
rfc6147>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

,

Mawatari, M., Kawashima, M., and C. Byrne "464XLAT: Combination of Stateful
<https://
and Stateless Translation" RFC 6877 DOI 10.17487/RFC6877
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6877>

, April 2013,

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

,

,

Thanks to the following people (in alphabetical order) for their review and feedback:
Boucadair Martin Duke Russ Housley Sheng Jiang Benjamin Kaduk Murray Kucherawy Ted
Lemon Roy Marples Bjorn Mork Alvaro Retana Peng Shuping Pascal Thubert Bernie Volz Éric
,
,
Vyncke
 for
, and
the initial idea of signaling IPv6-only capability to hosts. Special thanks to
Townsley
, and
capability over DHCPv4.

,
Brian Carpenter
,

 for the discussion that led to the idea of signaling IPv6-only

. The authors would like to thank

Mohamed
,

Maciej Zenczykowski

Erik Kline Mark

Robert Wilton

Bob Hinden

 and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8925

IPv6-Only Preferred Option for DHCPv4

October 2020

Authors' Addresses

Lorenzo Colitti
Google
Shibuya 3-21-3 Shibuya, Tokyo
,
150-0002
Japan
Email:

 lorenzo@google.com

Jen Linkova
Google
1 Darling Island Rd
Pyrmont NSW 2009
Australia
Email:

 furry@google.com

Michael C. Richardson
Sandelman Software Works
Email:
URI:

 mcr+ietf@sandelman.ca
 https://www.sandelman.ca/

Tomek Mrugalski
Internet Systems Consortium, Inc.
PO Box 360
Newmarket NH 03857
,
United States of America
Email:

 tomasz.mrugalski@gmail.com

Colitti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

