Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8787
6442
Standards Track
May 2020
2070-1721
J. Winterbottom
Winterb Consulting Services

R. Jesske
Deutsche Telekom

B. Chatras
Orange Labs

A. Hutton
Atos

RFC 8787
Location Source Parameter for the SIP Geolocation
Header Field

Abstract

There are some circumstances where a Geolocation header ﬁeld may contain more than one
locationValue. Knowing the identity of the node adding the locationValue allows the recipient
more freedom in selecting the value to look at ﬁrst rather than relying solely on the order of the
locationValues. This document deﬁnes the "loc-src" parameter so that the entity adding the
locationValue to the Geolocation header ﬁeld can identify itself using its hostname. This
document updates RFC 6442.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8787

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Winterbottom, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8787

Location Parameter

May 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Rationale

4.  Mechanism

5.  Example

6.  Privacy Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Registration of "loc-src" Parameter for Geolocation Header Field

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC6442]

[RFC6442]

 describes the "Geolocation" SIP header ﬁeld, which is

 also states that if a SIP intermediary adds location, it is fully responsible

The SIP Geolocation speciﬁcation
used to indicate that the SIP message is conveying location information.
SIP intermediaries should not add locationValues to a SIP request that already contains a
locationValue.
for addressing the concerns of any 424 (Bad Location Information) SIP response it receives.
However, some communications architectures, such as 3GPP
, prefer
to use information provided by edge proxies or acquired through the use of core-network nodes
before using information provided solely by user equipment (UE). These solutions don't preclude
the use of UE-provided location but require a means of being able to distinguish the identity of
the node adding the locationValue to the SIP message from that provided by the UE.

 speciﬁes that

[TS23-167]

[RFC6442]

 and ETSI

[M493]

Winterbottom, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8787

Location Parameter

May 2020

 stipulates that the order of locationValues in the Geolocation header ﬁeld is the same

[RFC6442]
as the order in which they were added to the header ﬁeld. Whilst this order provides guidance to
the recipient as to which values were added to the message earlier in the communication chain,
it does not identify which node added the locationValue. Knowing the identity of the entity that
added the location to the message allows the recipient to choose which location to consider ﬁrst
rather than relying solely on the order of the locationValues in the Geolocation header ﬁeld.

This document extends the Geolocation header ﬁeld of
the locationValue to identify itself using a hostname. This is done by deﬁning a new geoloc-
param header ﬁeld parameter, "loc-src". How the entity adding the locationValue to the header
ﬁeld obtains the location information is out of scope of this document. Please note that the "loc-
src" parameter ﬁeld does not alter the subject of the locationValue.

 by allowing an entity adding

[RFC6442]

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Rationale

The primary intent of the "loc-src" parameter in this speciﬁcation is for use in emergency calling.
There are various architectures deﬁned for providing emergency calling using SIP-based
messaging. Each has its own characteristics with corresponding pros and cons. All of them allow
the UE to provide location information; however, many also attach other sources of location
information to support veracity checks, to provide backup information, or to be used as the
primary location.

This document does not comment on these various architectures or on the rationale for
including multiple locationValues. It does recognize that these architectures exist and that there
is a need to identify the entity adding the location information.

The "loc-src" parameter adds the location source generating the locationValue to allow recipients
to make informed decisions about which of the multiple values to use.

The "loc-src" parameter is applicable within a single private administrative domain or between
diﬀerent administrative domains where there is a trust relationship between the domains. Thus,
it is intended to use this parameter only in trust domains where Spec(T) as described in
[RFC3325]

 exists.

The "loc-src" parameter is not included in a SIP message sent to another network if there is no
trust relationship. The "loc-src" parameter is not applicable if the administrative domain
manages emergency calls in a way that does not require any generation of the location.

The functional architecture to support emergency caller location described within ETSI
an example of an architecture where it makes sense to use this parameter.

[M493]

 is

Winterbottom, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8787

Location Parameter

May 2020

4.  Mechanism

The mechanism adds a geoloc-param parameter to the locationValue deﬁned in
identiﬁes the hostname of the entity adding the locationValue to the Geolocation header ﬁeld.
The Augmented BNF (ABNF)

 for this parameter is shown in Figure 1.

[RFC5234]

[RFC6442]

 that

       location-source = "loc-src" EQUAL hostname
       hostname = <defined in RFC 3261>

Figure 1: Location Source

Only a fully qualiﬁed host name is valid. The syntax does not support IP addresses, and if an
entity conforming to this speciﬁcation receives a Geolocation header ﬁeld with a "loc-src"
parameter containing an IP address, it

 remove the parameter.

MUST

SHOULD

 also add a "loc-src" header ﬁeld parameter so that it is clearly identiﬁed as

A SIP intermediary conformant to this speciﬁcation adding a locationValue to a Geolocation
header ﬁeld
the node adding the location. A User Agent (UA)
parameter. If a SIP intermediary receives a message from an untrusted source with the "loc-src"
parameter set, then it
trusted network.

 remove the "loc-src" parameter before passing the message into a

 insert a "loc-src" header ﬁeld

MUST NOT

MUST

5.  Example

The following example shows a SIP INVITE message containing a Geolocation header ﬁeld with
two locationValues. The ﬁrst locationValue points to a Presence Information Data Format
Location Object (PIDF-LO) in the SIP body using a content-indirection (cid:) URI per
and this is provided by the UE. The second locationValue is an https URI provided by a SIP
intermediary, which identiﬁes itself using the "loc-src" parameter.

[RFC4483]
,

Winterbottom, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8787

Location Parameter

May 2020

   INVITE sip:bob@biloxi.example.com SIP/2.0
   Via: SIP/2.0/TLS pc33.atlanta.example.com;branch=z9hG4bK74bf9
   Max-Forwards: 70
   To: Bob <sip:bob@biloxi.example.com>
   From: Alice <sip:alice@atlanta.example.com>;tag=9fxced76sl
   Call-ID: 3848276298220188511@atlanta.example.com
   Geolocation: <cid:target123@atlanta.example.com>,
        <https://lis.example.com:8222/y77syc7cuecbh>;
                 loc-src=edgeproxy.example.com
   Geolocation-Routing: yes
   Accept: application/sdp, application/pidf+xml
   CSeq: 31862 INVITE
   Contact: <sip:alice@atlanta.example.com>
   Content-Type: multipart/mixed; boundary=boundary1
   Content-Length: ...

Figure 2: Example Location Request (in Trust Domain)

6.  Privacy Considerations

[RFC6442]
This document doesn't change any of the privacy considerations described in
the addition of the "loc-src" parameter identiﬁes the entity that added the location in the
signaling path, this addition provides little more exposure than adding a proxy identity to the
Record-Route header ﬁeld (privacy deﬁned in

[RFC3323]

).

. While

7.  Security Considerations

This document introduces the ability of a SIP intermediary to insert a host name indicating that
they added the speciﬁc locationValue to the Geolocation header ﬁeld. The intent is for this ﬁeld to
be used by the location recipient in the event that the SIP message contains multiple
locationValues. As a consequence, this parameter should only be used by the location recipient in
a trusted network. Adding this parameter in an untrusted network serves solely to give location
information to untrusted parties and is

NOT RECOMMENDED

.

[RFC6442]

, securing the location hop by hop, using TLS, protects the message

As already stated in
from eavesdropping and modiﬁcation in transit but exposes the information to all SIP
intermediaries on the path as well as the endpoint. The "loc-src" parameter is applicable within a
single private administrative domain or between diﬀerent administrative domains where there
is a relationship between the domains. If such a trust relationship is not given, it is strongly
recommended to delete the location information.

The use of this parameter is not restricted to a speciﬁc architecture, but using multiple locations
and loc-src may end in compatibility issues.
 already addresses the issue of multiple
locations. To avoid problems of a possible corruption of the location information including the
"loc-src" parameter when using an untrusted relationship, it is strongly recommended to delete
location information when passed to another domain out of the trust domain.

[RFC6442]

Winterbottom, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8787

Location Parameter

May 2020

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Registration of "loc-src" Parameter for Geolocation Header Field

IANA has added a new SIP header ﬁeld parameter for the Geolocation header ﬁeld in the
"Header Field Parameters and Parameter Values" subregistry (created by
"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Parameters" registry found at
.
assignments/sip-parameters/>

<https://www.iana.org/

[RFC3968]

) of the

Header Field:

Geolocation

Parameter Name:

loc-src

Predeﬁned Values:

No

Reference:

RFC 8787

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3323]

[RFC3325]

[RFC3968]

[RFC5234]

[RFC6442]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Peterson, J. "A Privacy Mechanism for the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC
,
3323 DOI 10.17487/RFC3323
rfc3323>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2002,

.

,

Jennings, C., Peterson, J., and M. Watson "Private Extensions to the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) for Asserted Identity within Trusted Networks" RFC
, November 2002,
,
3325 DOI 10.17487/RFC3325
rfc3325>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

.

,

,

Camarillo, G. "The Internet Assigned Number Authority (IANA) Header Field
Parameter Registry for the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" BCP 98 RFC 3968
DOI 10.17487/RFC3968
rfc3968>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2004,

,

.

,

,

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

Polk, J., Rosen, B., and J. Peterson "Location Conveyance for the Session
, December 2011,
Initiation Protocol" RFC 6442 DOI 10.17487/RFC6442
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6442>

.

,

,

,

<https://

Winterbottom, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8787

Location Parameter

May 2020

[RFC8174]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[M493]

[RFC4483]

[TS23-167]

European Telecommunications Standards Institute "Functional architecture to
support European requirements on emergency caller location determination
and transport" ES 203 178 V 1.1.1

, February 2015.

,

,

,

,

Burger, E., Ed. "A Mechanism for Content Indirection in Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP) Messages" RFC 4483 DOI 10.17487/RFC4483
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4483>

, May 2006,

,

,

.

<https://

3rd Generation Partnership Project "Technical Speciﬁcation Group Services and
,
System Aspects; IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions" TS 23.167
V12.1.0

, March 2015.

,

,

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
,
extensive review of this document. The authors would like to acknowledge the constructive
Robert Sparks
feedback provided by

Dale Worley Christer Holmberg

Jean Mahoney

Paul Kyzivat

, and

 and

 for their

.

Authors' Addresses

James Winterbottom
Winterb Consulting Services
Gwynneville NSW 2500
Australia
Phone:
Email:

 +61 448 266004
 a.james.winterbottom@gmail.com

Roland Jesske
Deutsche Telekom
Heinrich-Hertz Str, 3-7
64295 Darmstadt
Germany
Email:
URI:

 www.telekom.de

 r.jesske@telekom.de

Winterbottom, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8787

Location Parameter

May 2020

Bruno Chatras
Orange Labs
44, avenue de la Republique
F-92320 Chatillon
France
Email:

 bruno.chatras@orange.com

Andrew Hutton
Atos
Mid City Place
London
WC1V 6EA
United Kingdom
Email:

 andrew.hutton@atos.net

Winterbottom, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

