Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8750
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721
D. Migault
Ericsson

T. Guggemos
LMU Munich

Y. Nir
Dell Technologies

RFC 8750
Implicit Initialization Vector (IV) for Counter-Based
Ciphers in Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)

Abstract

Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) sends an initialization vector (IV) in each packet. The size
of the IV depends on the applied transform and is usually 8 or 16 octets for the transforms
deﬁned at the time this document was written. When used with IPsec, some algorithms, such as
AES-GCM, AES-CCM, and ChaCha20-Poly1305, take the IV to generate a nonce that is used as an
input parameter for encrypting and decrypting. This IV must be unique but can be predictable.
As a result, the value provided in the ESP Sequence Number (SN) can be used instead to generate
the nonce. This avoids sending the IV itself and saves 8 octets per packet in the case of AES-GCM,
AES-CCM, and ChaCha20-Poly1305. This document describes how to do this.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8750

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8750

Implicit IV in ESP

March 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8750

Implicit IV in ESP

March 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Notation

3.  Terminology

4.  Implicit IV

5.  IKEv2 Initiator Behavior

6.  IKEv2 Responder Behavior

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Counter-based AES modes of operation such as AES-CCM
require the speciﬁcation of a nonce for each ESP packet. The same applies for ChaCha20-
Poly1305
[RFC7634]
provided in each ESP packet
IV".

. Currently, this nonce is generated thanks to the initialization vector (IV)

. This practice is designated in this document as "explicit

 and AES-GCM

[RFC4303]

[RFC4106]

[RFC4309]

In some contexts, such as the Internet of Things (IoT), it may be preferable to avoid carrying the
extra bytes associated to the IV and instead generate it locally on each peer. The local generation
of the IV is designated in this document as "implicit IV".

The size of this IV depends on the speciﬁc algorithm, but all of the algorithms mentioned above
take an 8-octet IV.

This document deﬁnes how to compute the IV locally when it is implicit. It also speciﬁes how
peers agree with the Internet Key Exchange version 2 (IKEv2)
versus an explicit IV.

 on using an implicit IV

[RFC7296]

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8750

Implicit IV in ESP

March 2020

This document limits its scope to the algorithms mentioned above. Other algorithms with similar
properties may later be deﬁned to use similar mechanisms.

This document does not consider AES-CBC
unpredictable. Deriving it directly from the packet counter as described below is insecure, as
mentioned in
BEAST

, and has led to real-world chosen plaintext attacks such as

, as AES-CBC requires the IV to be

Section 6 of [RFC3602]

[RFC3602]

[BEAST]

.

This document does not consider AES-CTR
Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) suites provided in

[RFC3686]

, as it focuses on the recommended

[RFC8221]
.

2.  Requirements Notation

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Terminology

IoT:

IV:

IIV:

Internet of Things

Initialization Vector

Implicit Initialization Vector

Nonce:

A ﬁxed-size octet string used only once. In this document, the IV is used to generate the
nonce input for the encryption/decryption.

4.  Implicit IV

With the algorithms listed in Section 1, the 8-byte IV
binding between an ESP packet and its IV is provided using the Sequence Number or the
Extended Sequence Number. Figures 1 and 2 represent the IV with a regular 4-byte Sequence
Number and an 8-byte Extended Sequence Number, respectively.

 repeat for a given key. The

MUST NOT

0                   1                   2                   3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                              Zero                             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Sequence Number                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Implicit IV with a 4-Byte Sequence Number

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8750

Implicit IV in ESP

March 2020

Sequence Number:

The 4-byte Sequence Number carried in the ESP packet.

Zero:

A 4-byte array with all bits set to zero.

0                   1                   2                   3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                         Extended                              |
|                      Sequence Number                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Implicit IV with an 8-Byte Extended Sequence Number

Extended Sequence Number:

The 8-byte Extended Sequence Number of the Security Association. The four low-order
bytes are carried in the ESP packet.

[RFC4309]

This document solely deﬁnes the IV generation of the algorithms deﬁned in
GCM,
 for ChaCha20-Poly1305. All other aspects and
parameters of those algorithms are unchanged and are used as deﬁned in their respective
speciﬁcations.

 for AES-CCM, and

[RFC4106]

[RFC7634]

 for AES-

5.  IKEv2 Initiator Behavior

An initiator supporting this feature
Transform Type 1 (Encryption Algorithm) Substructure of the Proposal Substructure inside the
Security Association (SA) payload in the IKEv2 Exchange. To facilitate backward compatibility
with non-supporting peers, the initiator
IV as separate transforms.

 propose implicit IV (IIV) algorithms in the

 also include those same algorithms with explicit

SHOULD

SHOULD

6.  IKEv2 Responder Behavior

The rules of SA payload processing require that the responder pick its algorithms from the
proposal sent by the initiator, thus ensuring that the responder will never send an SA payload
containing the IIV transform to an initiator that did not propose it.

7.  Security Considerations

Nonce generation for these algorithms has not been explicitly deﬁned. It has been left to the
implementation as long as certain security requirements are met. Typically, for AES-GCM, AES-
CCM, and ChaCha20-Poly1305, the IV is not allowed to be repeated for one particular key. This
document provides an explicit and normative way to generate IVs. The mechanism described in
this document meets the IV security requirements of all relevant algorithms.

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8750

Implicit IV in ESP

March 2020

MUST NOT

 be used in setups with the chance that the Sequence

As the IV must not repeat for one SA when Counter-Mode ciphers are used, implicit IV as
described in this document
Number overlaps for one SA. The sender's counter and the receiver's counter
 be reset (by
establishing a new SA and thus a new key) prior to the transmission of the 2^32nd packet for an
SA that does not use an Extended Sequence Number and prior to the transmission of the 2^64th
packet for an SA that does use an Extended Sequence Number. This prevents Sequence Number
overlaps for the mundane point-to-point case. Multicast as described in
and
As such, implicit IV may only be used with Multicast if some mechanisms are employed that
prevent the Sequence Number from overlapping for one SA; otherwise, implicit IV
used with Multicast.

 is a prominent example in which many senders share one secret and thus one SA.

,
,
[RFC5374] [RFC6407]

[G-IKEv2]

MUST NOT

MUST

 be

This document deﬁnes three new encryption transforms that use implicit IV. Unlike most
encryption transforms deﬁned to date, which can be used for both ESP and IKEv2, these
transforms are deﬁned for ESP only and cannot be used in IKEv2. The reason for this is that
IKEv2 messages don't contain a unique per-message value that can be used for IV generation. The
Message-ID ﬁeld in the IKEv2 header is similar to the SN ﬁeld in the ESP header, but recent IKEv2
extensions
unique IV from IKEv2 header ﬁelds.

 do allow it to repeat, so there is not an easy way to derive

[RFC6311] [RFC7383]

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has updated the "Internet Key Exchange Version 2 (IKEv2) Parameters" registry
by adding the following new code points to the "Transform Type 1 - Encryption Algorithm
Transform IDs" subregistry under the "Transform Type Values" registry

[IANA]

:

[RFC7296]

Number Name

ESP Reference

IKEv2 Reference

29

30

31

ENCR_AES_CCM_8_IIV

RFC 8750

Not allowed

ENCR_AES_GCM_16_IIV

RFC 8750

Not allowed

ENCR_CHACHA20_POLY1305_IIV

RFC 8750

Not allowed

Table 1: Additions to "Transform Type 1 - Encryption Algorithm Transform IDs" Registry

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3602]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Frankel, S., Glenn, R., and S. Kelly "The AES-CBC Cipher Algorithm and Its Use
,
,
with IPsec" RFC 3602 DOI 10.17487/RFC3602
editor.org/info/rfc3602>

, September 2003,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8750

Implicit IV in ESP

March 2020

[RFC3686]

[RFC4106]

[RFC4303]

[RFC4309]

[RFC5374]

[RFC6311]

[RFC6407]

[RFC7296]

[RFC7383]

[RFC7634]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8221]

,

Housley, R. "Using Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Counter Mode With
IPsec Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)" RFC 3686 DOI 10.17487/RFC3686
January 2004,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3686>

,

.

,

Viega, J. and D. McGrew "The Use of Galois/Counter Mode (GCM) in IPsec
Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)" RFC 4106 DOI 10.17487/RFC4106
2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4106>

,

,

,

.

, June

Kent, S. "IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)" RFC 4303 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC4303

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4303>

, December 2005,

,

,

.

,

Housley, R. "Using Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) CCM Mode with IPsec
Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)" RFC 4309 DOI 10.17487/RFC4309
,
December 2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4309>

,

,

.

Weis, B., Gross, G., and D. Ignjatic "Multicast Extensions to the Security
Architecture for the Internet Protocol" RFC 5374 DOI 10.17487/RFC5374
November 2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5374>

,

,

,

.

,

Singh, R., Ed., Kalyani, G., Nir, Y., Sheﬀer, Y., and D. Zhang "Protocol Support for
High Availability of IKEv2/IPsec" RFC 6311 DOI 10.17487/RFC6311
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6311>

, July 2011,

.

,

,

Weis, B., Rowles, S., and T. Hardjono "The Group Domain of Interpretation" RFC
,
6407 DOI 10.17487/RFC6407
rfc6407>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, October 2011,

.

Kaufman, C., Hoﬀman, P., Nir, Y., Eronen, P., and T. Kivinen "Internet Key
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" STD 79 RFC 7296 DOI 10.17487/RFC7296
October 2014,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7296>

,

,

,

,

,

Smyslov, V. "Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2) Message
,
Fragmentation" RFC 7383 DOI 10.17487/RFC7383
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7383>

, November 2014,

,

.

<https://

,

Nir, Y. "ChaCha20, Poly1305, and Their Use in the Internet Key Exchange
, August 2015,
,
Protocol (IKE) and IPsec" RFC 7634 DOI 10.17487/RFC7634
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7634>

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Wouters, P., Migault, D., Mattsson, J., Nir, Y., and T. Kivinen "Cryptographic
Algorithm Implementation Requirements and Usage Guidance for
Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) and Authentication Header (AH)" RFC
,
8221 DOI 10.17487/RFC8221
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8221>

, October 2017,

,

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8750

Implicit IV in ESP

March 2020

[BEAST]

[G-IKEv2]

[IANA]

Duong, T. and J. Rizzo "Here Come The xor Ninjas"
www.researchgate.net/publication/266529975_Here_Come_The_Ninjas>

, May 2011,

<https://

,

.

Weis, B. and V. Smyslov "Group Key Management using IKEv2" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ipsecme-g-ikev2-00
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-ipsecme-g-ikev2-00>

, 8 January 2020,

,

,

,

.

<https://

,

IANA "Internet Key Exchange Version 2 (IKEv2) Parameters" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/ikev2-parameters>

,

.

Acknowledgements

We would like to thank
Nyström
Kaduk
Schinazi
Chairs) for moving this work forward.

Roman Danyliw

, and

 for his implementation as well as

,

Valery Smyslov Éric Vyncke Alexey Melnikov Adam Roach

,

,

, and

Magnus

 (security directorate) as well as our three Security ADs --

Eric Rescorla Benjamin

,

 -- for their valuable comments. We also would like to thank
 and

David Waltermire

Tero Kivinen

 (the IPSECME

David

Authors' Addresses

Daniel Migault
Ericsson
8275 Trans Canada Route
Saint Laurent QC H4S 0B6
Canada
Email:

 daniel.migault@ericsson.com

Tobias Guggemos
LMU Munich
Oettingenstr. 67
80538 Munich
Germany
Email:
URI:

 guggemos@nm.iﬁ.lmu.de

 http://mnm-team.org/~guggemos

Yoav Nir
Dell Technologies
9 Andrei Sakharov St
Haifa 3190500
Israel
Email:

 ynir.ietf@gmail.com

Migault, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

