Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8691
Standards Track
December 2019
2070-1721

N. Benamar
Moulay Ismail University of Meknes

J. Härri
EURECOM

J. Lee
Sangmyung University

T. Ernst
YoGoKo

RFC 8691
Basic Support for IPv6 Networks Operating Outside
the Context of a Basic Service Set over IEEE Std
802.11

Abstract

This document provides methods and settings for using IPv6 to communicate among nodes
within range of one another over a single IEEE 802.11-OCB link. Support for these methods and
settings require minimal changes to existing stacks. This document also describes limitations
associated with using these methods. Optimizations and usage of IPv6 over more complex
scenarios are not covered in this speciﬁcation and are a subject for future work.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8691

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2019 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Communication Scenarios Where IEEE 802.11-OCB Links Are Used

4.  IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

4.1.  Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU)

4.2.  Frame Format

4.3.  Link-Local Addresses

4.4.  Stateless Autoconﬁguration

4.5.  Address Mapping

4.5.1.  Address Mapping -- Unicast

4.5.2.  Address Mapping -- Multicast

4.6.  Subnet Structure

5.  Security Considerations

5.1.  Privacy Considerations

5.1.1.  Privacy Risks of Meaningful Information in Interface IDs

5.2.  MAC Address and Interface ID Generation

5.3.  Pseudonymization Impact on Conﬁdentiality and Trust

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  802.11p

Appendix B.  Aspects Introduced by OCB Mode to 802.11

Appendix C.  Changes Needed on an 802.11a Software Driver to Become an 802.11-OCB Driver

Appendix D.  Protocol Layering

Appendix E.  Design Considerations

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

Appendix F.  IEEE 802.11 Messages Transmitted in OCB Mode

Appendix G.  Examples of Packet Formats

G.1.  Capture in Monitor Mode

G.2.  Capture in Normal Mode

Appendix H.  Extra Terminology

Appendix I.  Neighbor Discovery (ND) Potential Issues in Wireless Links

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document provides a baseline for using IPv6 to communicate among nodes in range of one
another over a single IEEE 802.11-OCB link
B, and C) with minimal changes to existing stacks. Moreover, the document identiﬁes the
limitations of such usage. Concretely, the document describes the layering of IPv6 networking on
top of the IEEE Std 802.11 MAC layer or an IEEE Std 802.3 MAC layer with a frame translation
underneath. The resulting stack is derived from IPv6 over Ethernet
802.11-OCB to provide at least P2P (point-to-point) connectivity using IPv6 Neighbor Discovery
(ND) and link-local addresses.

 (a.k.a., 802.11p; see Appendices A,

[IEEE-802.11-2016]

 but operates over

[RFC2464]

The IPv6 network layer operates on 802.11-OCB in the same manner as operating on the Ethernet
with the following exceptions:

• Exceptions due to the diﬀerent operation of the IPv6 network layer on 802.11 compared to

the Ethernet. The operation of IP on Ethernet is described in

[RFC1042]

 and

[RFC2464]

.

• Exceptions due to the OCB nature of 802.11-OCB compared to 802.11. This has impacts on

security, privacy, subnet structure, and movement detection. Security and privacy
recommendations are discussed in Sections 4.4 and 5. The subnet structure is described in
Section 4.6. The movement detection on OCB links is not described in this document.
Likewise, ND extensions and IP Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments (IPWAVE)
optimizations for vehicular communications are not in scope of this document. The
expectation is that further speciﬁcations will be edited to cover more complex vehicular
networking scenarios.

The reader may refer to
802.11-OCB. It is out of scope of this document to reiterate those problems.

 for an overview of problems related to running IPv6 over

[IPWAVE]

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The document makes uses of the following terms:

IP-OBU (Internet Protocol On-Board Unit):

An IP-OBU denotes a computer situated in a vehicle such as a car, bicycle, or similar. It has
at least one IP interface that runs in mode OCB of 802.11 and has an "OBU" transceiver. See
the deﬁnition of the term "OBU" in Appendix H.

IP-RSU (IP Roadside Unit):

An IP-RSU is situated along the road. It has at least two distinct IP-enabled interfaces. The
wireless PHY/MAC layer of at least one of its IP-enabled interfaces is conﬁgured to operate
in 802.11-OCB mode. An IP-RSU communicates with the IP-OBU over an 802.11 wireless
link operating in OCB mode. An IP-RSU is similar to an Access Network Router (ANR),
.
deﬁned in
[RFC5415]

, and a Wireless Termination Point (WTP), deﬁned in

[RFC3753]

OCB (outside the context of a Basic Service Set - BSS):

This is a mode of operation in which a station (STA) is not a member of a BSS and does not
utilize IEEE Std 802.11 authentication, association, or data conﬁdentiality.

802.11-OCB:

This refers to the mode speciﬁed in IEEE Std 802.11-2016 when the MIB attribute
dot11OCBActivited is 'true'.

3.  Communication Scenarios Where IEEE 802.11-OCB Links Are
Used

IEEE 802.11-OCB networks are used for vehicular communications as 'Wireless Access in
Vehicular Environments'. In particular, we refer the reader to
scenarios and requirements for IP in Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS).

, which lists some

[IPWAVE]

The link model is the following: STA --- 802.11-OCB --- STA. In vehicular networks, STAs can be IP-
RSUs and/or IP-OBUs. All links are assumed to be P2P, and multiple links can be on one radio
interface. While 802.11-OCB is clearly speciﬁed and a legacy IPv6 stack can operate on such links,
the use of the operating environment (vehicular networks) brings in new perspectives.

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

4.  IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

4.1.  Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU)

The default MTU for IP packets on 802.11-OCB is inherited from
octets. As noted in
, every link on the Internet must have a minimum MTU of 1280
octets and must follow the other recommendations, especially with regard to fragmentation.

 and, as such, is 1500

[RFC8200]

[RFC2464]

4.2.  Frame Format

IP packets
speciﬁed in an IEEE 802.11 spec

MUST

[IEEE-802.11-2016]

.

 be transmitted over 802.11-OCB media as QoS data frames whose format is

The IPv6 packet transmitted on 802.11-OCB is immediately preceded by a Logical Link Control
(LLC) header and an 802.11 header. In the LLC header and in accordance with EtherType
Protocol Discrimination (EPD; see Appendix D), the value of the Type ﬁeld
(IPv6). The mapping to the 802.11 data service
'Background' user priority), reserving higher priority values for safety-critical and time-sensitive
traﬃc, including the ones listed in

 use a 'priority' value of 1 (QoS with a

[ETSI-sec-archi]

 be set to 0x86DD

SHOULD

MUST

.

To simplify the Application Programming Interface (API) between the operating system and the
802.11-OCB media, device drivers
 and then
a frame translation from 802.3 to 802.11 in order to minimize the code changes.

 implement IPv6 over Ethernet as per

[RFC2464]

MAY

4.3.  Link-Local Addresses

There are several types of IPv6 addresses
OCB interface. Among these types of addresses, only the IPv6 link-local addresses can be formed
using an EUI-64 identiﬁer, particularly during transition time (the period of time before an
interface starts using an address diﬀerent from the LL one).

 that may be assigned to an 802.11-

[RFC4291] [RFC4193]

If the IPv6 link-local address is formed using an EUI-64 identiﬁer, then the mechanism for
forming that address is the same mechanism as that used to form an IPv6 link-local address on
Ethernet links. Moreover, regardless of whether the interface identiﬁer is derived from the
EUI-64 identiﬁer, its length is 64 bits, as is the case for the Ethernet

[RFC2464]

.

4.4.  Stateless Autoconﬁguration

The steps a host takes in deciding how to autoconﬁgure its interfaces in IPv6 are described in
. This section describes the formation of Interface Identiﬁers for 'Global' or 'Unique
[RFC4862]
Local' IPv6 addresses. Interface Identiﬁers for 'link-local' IPv6 addresses are discussed in Section
4.3.

RECOMMENDED

 method for forming stable Interface Identiﬁers (IIDs) is described in

The
[RFC8064]
transition time, particularly for IPv6 link-local addresses. Regardless of the method used to form
the IID, its length is 64 bits, similarly to IPv6 over Ethernet

. The method of forming IIDs described in

Section 4 of [RFC2464] MAY

 be used during

[RFC2464]

.

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

The bits in the IID have no speciﬁc meaning, and the identiﬁer should be treated as an opaque
value. The bits 'Universal' and 'Group' in the identiﬁer of an 802.11-OCB interface, which is an
IEEE link-layer address, are signiﬁcant. The details of this signiﬁcance are described in
[RFC7136]

.

[RFC2464], Section 4

), help avoid certain privacy risks (see the risks mentioned in

Semantically opaque IIDs, instead of meaningful IIDs derived from a valid and meaningful MAC
address (
Section 5.1.1). If semantically opaque IIDs are needed, they may be generated using the method
for generating semantically opaque IIDs with IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconﬁguration given in
[RFC7217]
. Typically, an opaque IID is formed starting from identiﬁers diﬀerent from the MAC
addresses and from cryptographically strong material. Thus, privacy-sensitive information is
absent from Interface IDs because it is impossible to calculate back the initial value from which
the Interface ID was ﬁrst generated.

Some applications that use IPv6 packets on 802.11-OCB links (among other link types) may
 to use the
beneﬁt from IPv6 addresses whose IIDs don't change too often. It is
mechanisms described in
 to permit the use of stable IIDs that do not change within
one subnet preﬁx. A possible source for the Net_Iface parameter is a virtual interface name or
logical interface name that is decided by a local administrator.

RECOMMENDED

[RFC7217]

4.5.  Address Mapping

Unicast and multicast address mapping
interfaces described in Sections 6 and 7 of

[RFC2464]

.

MUST

 follow the procedures speciﬁed for Ethernet

4.5.1.  Address Mapping -- Unicast

This document is scoped for Address Resolution (AR) and Duplicate Address Detection (DAD) per
[RFC4862]

.

4.5.2.  Address Mapping -- Multicast

The multicast address mapping is performed according to the method speciﬁed in
[RFC2464]
[RFC7042]

. The meaning of the value "33-33" mentioned there is deﬁned in
.

Section 2.3.1 of

Section 7 of

Transmitting IPv6 packets to multicast destinations over 802.11 links proved to have some
performance issues
improvement to this speciﬁcation should consider solutions for these problems.

. These issues may be exacerbated in OCB mode. Future

[IEEE802-MCAST]

4.6.  Subnet Structure

When vehicles are in close range, a subnet may be formed over 802.11-OCB interfaces (not by
their in-vehicle interfaces). A Preﬁx List conceptual data structure (
maintained for each 802.11-OCB interface.

[RFC4861], Section 5.1

) is

The IPv6 Neighbor Discovery protocol (ND) requires reﬂexive properties (bidirectional
connectivity), which is generally, though not always, the case for P2P OCB links. IPv6 ND also
requires transitive properties for DAD and AR, so an IPv6 subnet can be mapped on an OCB

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

network only if all nodes in the network share a single physical broadcast domain. The extension
to IPv6 ND operating on a subnet that covers multiple OCB links and does not fully overlap (i.e.,
non-broadcast multi-access (NBMA)) is not in scope of this document. Finally, IPv6 ND requires
permanent connectivity of all nodes in the subnet to defend their addresses -- in other words,
very stable network conditions.

The structure of this subnet is ephemeral in that it is strongly inﬂuenced by the mobility of
vehicles: the hidden terminal eﬀects appear, and the 802.11 networks in OCB mode may be
considered ad hoc networks with an addressing model, as described in
hand, the structure of the internal subnets in each vehicle is relatively stable.

[RFC5889]

. On the other

As recommended in
through IP-RSU coverage), no on-link subnet preﬁx should be conﬁgured on an 802.11-OCB
interface. In such cases, the exclusive use of IPv6 link-local addresses is

, when the timing requirements are very strict (e.g., fast-drive-

RECOMMENDED

[RFC5889]

.

Additionally, even if the timing requirements are not very strict (e.g., the moving subnet formed
by two following vehicles is stable, a ﬁxed IP-RSU is absent), the subnet is disconnected from the
Internet (i.e., a default route is absent), and the addressing peers are equally qualiﬁed (that is, it
is impossible to determine whether some vehicle owns and distributes addresses to others), the
use of link-local addresses is

RECOMMENDED

.

[RFC4861] MUST

 be supported over 802.11-OCB links. Transmitting ND

The baseline ND protocol
packets may prove to have some performance issues, as mentioned in Section 4.5.2 and Appendix
I. These issues may be exacerbated in OCB mode. Solutions for these problems should consider
the OCB mode of operation. Future solutions to OCB should consider solutions for avoiding
broadcast. The best of current knowledge indicates the kinds of issues that may arise with ND in
OCB mode; they are described in Appendix I.

Protocols like Mobile IPv6
movement detection, might need additional tuning work to handle the lack of link-layer
notiﬁcations during handover. This topic is left for further study.

[RFC6275] [RFC3963]

 and DNAv6

[RFC6059]

, which depend on timely

5.  Security Considerations

Any security mechanism at the IP layer or above that may be implemented for the general case
of IPv6 may also be implemented for IPv6 operating over 802.11-OCB.

The OCB operation does not use existing 802.11 link-layer security mechanisms. There is no
encryption applied below the network layer running on 802.11-OCB. At the application layer, the
IEEE 1609.2 document
 provides security services for certain applications to use;
application-layer mechanisms are out of scope of this document. On the other hand, a security
mechanism provided at the networking layer, such as IPsec
protection to a wider range of applications.

, may provide data security

[IEEE-1609.2]

[RFC4301]

802.11-OCB does not provide any cryptographic protection because it operates outside the
context of a BSS (no Association Request/Response or Challenge messages). Therefore, an attacker
can sniﬀ or inject traﬃc while within range of a vehicle or IP-RSU (by setting an interface card's

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

frequency to the proper range). Also, an attacker may not adhere to the legal limits for radio
power and can use a very sensitive directional antenna; if attackers wish to attack a given
exchange, they do not necessarily need to be in close physical proximity. Hence, such a link is less
protected than commonly used links (a wired link or the aforementioned 802.11 links with link-
layer security).

Therefore, any node can join a subnet and directly communicate with any nodes on the subset,
including potentially impersonating another node. This design allows for a number of threats
 is a
outlined in
solution that can address spoof-based attack vectors.

. While not widely deployed, SEND

Section 3 of [RFC6959]

[RFC3971] [RFC3972]

5.1.  Privacy Considerations

[RFC7721]

, the identiﬁer of an 802.11-OCB

As with all Ethernet and 802.11 interface identiﬁers
interface may involve privacy, MAC address spooﬁng, and IP hijacking risks. A vehicle embarking
an IP-OBU whose egress interface is 802.11-OCB may expose itself to eavesdropping and
subsequent correlation of data. This may reveal data considered private by the vehicle owner;
there is a risk of being tracked. In outdoor public environments, where vehicles typically
circulate, the privacy risks are greater than in indoor settings. It is highly likely that attacker
sniﬀers are deployed along routes that listen for IEEE frames, including IP packets, of vehicles
passing by. For this reason, in 802.11-OCB deployments, there is a strong necessity to use
protection tools such as dynamically changing MAC addresses (Section 5.2), semantically opaque
Interface Identiﬁers, and stable Interface Identiﬁers (Section 4.4). An example of a change policy
is to change the MAC address of the OCB interface each time the system boots up. This may help
mitigate privacy risks to a certain level. Furthermore, for privacy concerns,
recommends using an address-generation scheme rather than generating addresses from a ﬁxed
link-layer address. However, there are some speciﬁcities related to vehicles. Since roaming is an
important characteristic of moving vehicles, the use of the same Link-Local Address over time
can indicate the presence of the same vehicle in diﬀerent places and thus lead to location
tracking. Hence, a vehicle should get hints about a change of environment (e.g., engine running,
GPS, etc.) and renew the IID in its LLAs.

[RFC8065]

5.1.1.  Privacy Risks of Meaningful Information in Interface IDs

The privacy risks of using MAC addresses displayed in Interface Identiﬁers are important. IPv6
packets can be captured easily on the Internet and on-link on public roads. For this reason, an
attacker may realize many attacks on privacy. One such attack on 802.11-OCB is to capture, store,
and correlate company ID information present in the MAC addresses of a large number of cars
(e.g., listening for Router Advertisements or other IPv6 application data packets, and recording
the value of the source address in these packets). Further correlation of this information with
other data captured by other means or other visual information (e.g., car color) may constitute
privacy risks.

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

5.2.  MAC Address and Interface ID Generation

In 802.11-OCB networks, the MAC addresses may change during well-deﬁned renumbering
events. At the moment the MAC address is changed on an 802.11-OCB interface, all the Interface
Identiﬁers of IPv6 addresses assigned to that interface

 change.

MUST

Implementations should use a policy dictating when the MAC address is changed on the 802.11-
OCB interface. For more information on the motivation of this policy, please refer to the privacy
discussion in Appendix B.

A 'randomized' MAC address has the following characteristics:

• The "Local/Global" bit is set to "locally administered".

• The "Unicast/Multicast" bit is set to "Unicast".

• The 46 remaining bits are set to a random value using a random number generator that

meets the requirements of

[RFC4086]

.

To meet the randomization requirements for the 46 remaining bits, a hash function may be used.
[SHA256]
For example, the hash function deﬁned in
 may be used with the input of a 256-bit local
secret, the 'nominal' MAC address of the interface, and a representation of the date and time of
the renumbering event.

A randomized Interface ID has the same characteristics of a randomized MAC address except for
the length in bits.

5.3.  Pseudonymization Impact on Conﬁdentiality and Trust

Vehicle and drivers privacy relies on pseudonymization mechanisms such as the ones described
in Section 5.2. This pseudonymization means that upper-layer protocols and applications
SHOULD NOT
trusted.

 rely on layer-2 or layer-3 addresses to assume that the other participant can be

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[IEEE-802.11-2016]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Information technology - Telecommunications and
information exchange between systems Local and metropolitan area networks--
Speciﬁc requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and
Physical Layer (PHY) Speciﬁcations" IEEE Standard 802.11-2016
2016,

,
<https://standards.ieee.org/ﬁndstds/standard/802.11-2016.html>

, December
.

[RFC1042]

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

Postel, J. and J. Reynolds "Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams over
IEEE 802 networks" STD 43 RFC 1042 DOI 10.17487/RFC1042
, February 1988,
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1042>

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Crawford, M. "Transmission of IPv6 Packets over Ethernet Networks" RFC 2464
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC2464
rfc2464>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 1998,

,

.

Eastlake 3rd, D., Schiller, J., and S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, June 2005,

<https://

,

,

,

,

.

Draves, R. and D. Thaler "Default Router Preferences and More-Speciﬁc Routes"
,
RFC 4191 DOI 10.17487/RFC4191
info/rfc4191>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 2005,

,

,

.

Hinden, R. and B. Haberman "Unique Local IPv6 Unicast Addresses" RFC 4193
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4193>
DOI 10.17487/RFC4193
.

,
, October 2005,

,

Hinden, R. and S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI
10.17487/RFC4291

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>
.

,
, February 2006,

,

Kent, S. and K. Seo "Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol" RFC 4301
DOI 10.17487/RFC4301
rfc4301>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2005,

,

,

.

,

Narten, T., Nordmark, E., Simpson, W., and H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
<https://
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, September 2007,

,

,

,

.

Thomson, S., Narten, T., and T. Jinmei "IPv6 Stateless Address
Autoconﬁguration" RFC 4862 DOI 10.17487/RFC4862
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4862>

,

,

.

, September 2007,

<https://

Calhoun, P., Ed., Montemurro, M., Ed., and D. Stanley, Ed. "Control And
Provisioning of Wireless Access Points (CAPWAP) Protocol Speciﬁcation" RFC
5415 DOI 10.17487/RFC5415
,
rfc5415>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2009,

,

,

.

Krishnan, S. and G. Daley "Simple Procedures for Detecting Network
Attachment in IPv6" RFC 6059 DOI 10.17487/RFC6059
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6059>

, November 2010,

,

,

,

.

<https://

Perkins, C., Ed., Johnson, D., and J. Arkko "Mobility Support in IPv6" RFC 6275
DOI 10.17487/RFC6275

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6275>

, July 2011,

,

,

.

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC2464]

[RFC4086]

[RFC4191]

[RFC4193]

[RFC4291]

[RFC4301]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4862]

[RFC5415]

[RFC6059]

[RFC6275]

[RFC7042]

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

Eastlake 3rd, D. and J. Abley "IANA Considerations and IETF Protocol and
Documentation Usage for IEEE 802 Parameters" BCP 141 RFC 7042 DOI
10.17487/RFC7042

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7042>

, October 2013,

,

,

,

,

.

[RFC7136]

[RFC7217]

[RFC8064]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

Carpenter, B. and S. Jiang "Signiﬁcance of IPv6 Interface Identiﬁers" RFC 7136
DOI 10.17487/RFC7136
rfc7136>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2014,

.

,

,

,

,

Gont, F. "A Method for Generating Semantically Opaque Interface Identiﬁers
with IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconﬁguration (SLAAC)" RFC 7217 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7217>
10.17487/RFC7217

, April 2014,

,

,

.

Gont, F., Cooper, A., Thaler, D., and W. Liu "Recommendation on Stable IPv6
,
Interface Identiﬁers" RFC 8064 DOI 10.17487/RFC8064
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8064>

, February 2017,

,

.

,

<https://

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Deering, S. and R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8200>

, July 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[CFR-90]

[CFR-90.7]

[CFR-95]

[ETSI-sec-archi]

[IEEE-1609.2]

[IEEE-1609.3]

,

e-CFR "Electronic Code of Federal Regulations" Title 47, Part 90 - PRIVATE LAND
MOBILE RADIO SERVICES <https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?
,
.
node=pt47.5.90&rgn=div5>

,

,

,
e-CFR "Electronic Code of Federal Regulations" Title 47, CFR 90.7 - Deﬁnitions
<https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=pt47.5.90&rgn=div5#se47.5.90_17>

,

.

,

e-CFR "Electronic Code of Federal Regulations" Title 47, CFR 95 - PERSONAL
RADIO SERVICES <https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?
.
node=pt47.5.95&rgn=div5>

,

,

"Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS); Security; ITS communications security
,

architecture and security management" ETSI TS 102 940 V1.2.1
<http://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_ts/102900_102999/102940/01.02.01_60/
ts_102940v010201p.pdf>

.

, November 2016,

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments--Security
Services for Applications and Management Messages" DOI 10.1109/
IEEESTD.2016.7426684 IEEE Standard 1609.2-2016
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7426684>

, March 2016,

<http://

,

.

,

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments (WAVE) --
Networking Services" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2016.7458115 IEEE Standard
1609.3-2016

<http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7458115>

, April 2016,

,

,

.

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

[IEEE-1609.4]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments (WAVE) --
Multi-Channel Operation" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2016.7435228 IEEE Standard
1609.4-2016

,
<http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7435228>

, March 2016,

.

,

[IEEE-802.11-2007]

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Information Technology - Telecommunications

,

and Information Exchange Between Systems - Local and Metropolitan Area
Networks - Speciﬁc Requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access
Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Speciﬁcations" DOI 10.1109/
<https://
IEEESTD.2007.373646 IEEE Standard 802.11-2007
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/4248378>

,
, June 2007,

,

.

[IEEE-802.11-2012]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Information technology--Telecommunications and
information exchange between systems Local and metropolitan area networks--
Speciﬁc requirements Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and
Physical Layer (PHY) Speciﬁcations" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2012.6178212 IEEE
Standard 802.11-2012
document/6419735>
.

,
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/

, March 2012,

,

[IEEE-802.11p-2010]

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Information technology - Telecommunications

,

and information exchange between systems - Local and metropolitan area
networks - Speciﬁc requirements, Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control
(MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Speciﬁcations, Amendment 6: Wireless Access
in Vehicular Environments" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2010.5514475 IEEE Standard
802.11p-2010
standard/802_11p-2010.html>

<https://standards.ieee.org/

, July 2010,

,

,

.

[IEEE-802.3-2012]

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Ethernet" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2012.6419735 IEEE

,

,

,
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/

Standard 802.3-2012
, December 2012,
document/6419735>
.

[IEEE802-MCAST]

Perkins, C., McBride, M., Stanley, D., Kumari, W., and J. Zuniga "Multicast
,
Considerations over IEEE 802 Wireless Media" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
,
,
draft-ietf-mboned-ieee802-mcast-problems-11
<https://
, 11 December 2019,
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-mboned-ieee802-mcast-problems-11>
.

,

Jeong, J. "IP Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments (IPWAVE): Problem
Statement and Use Cases" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ipwave-
vehicular-networking-12
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-
ipwave-vehicular-networking-12>

,
, 3 October 2019,

.

,

Manner, J., Ed. and M. Kojo, Ed. "Mobility Related Terminology" RFC 3753 DOI
10.17487/RFC3753

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3753>

, June 2004,

.

,

,

,

Devarapalli, V., Wakikawa, R., Petrescu, A., and P. Thubert "Network Mobility
,
(NEMO) Basic Support Protocol" RFC 3963 DOI 10.17487/RFC3963
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3963>

, January 2005,

.

,

,

[IPWAVE]

[RFC3753]

[RFC3963]

[RFC3971]

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

Arkko, J., Ed., Kempf, J., Zill, B., and P. Nikander "SEcure Neighbor Discovery
(SEND)" RFC 3971 DOI 10.17487/RFC3971
editor.org/info/rfc3971>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2005,

,

,

,

.

Aura, T. "Cryptographically Generated Addresses (CGA)" RFC 3972 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC3972

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3972>

, March 2005,

,

,

.

Baccelli, E., Ed. and M. Townsley, Ed. "IP Addressing Model in Ad Hoc
Networks" RFC 5889 DOI 10.17487/RFC5889
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc5889>

, September 2010,

,

.

<https://www.rfc-

McPherson, D., Baker, F., and J. Halpern "Source Address Validation
Improvement (SAVI) Threat Scope" RFC 6959 DOI 10.17487/RFC6959
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6959>

,

,

,

.

, May 2013,

Cooper, A., Gont, F., and D. Thaler "Security and Privacy Considerations for IPv6
,
Address Generation Mechanisms" RFC 7721 DOI 10.17487/RFC7721
,
2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7721>

, March

,

.

,

Thaler, D. "Privacy Considerations for IPv6 Adaptation-Layer Mechanisms" RFC
8065 DOI 10.17487/RFC8065
,
rfc8065>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2017,

.

Thubert, P., Ed., Nordmark, E., Chakrabarti, S., and C. Perkins "Registration
Extensions for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network
(6LoWPAN) Neighbor Discovery" RFC 8505 DOI 10.17487/RFC8505
,
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8505>

,

,

.

, November

National Institute of Standards and Technology "Secure Hash Standard (SHS)"
DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4 FIPS 180-4
publications/detail/ﬁps/180/4/ﬁnal>

<https://csrc.nist.gov/

, August 2015,

,

,

.

,

[RFC3972]

[RFC5889]

[RFC6959]

[RFC7721]

[RFC8065]

[RFC8505]

[SHA256]

Appendix A.  802.11p

The term "802.11p" is an earlier deﬁnition. The behavior of "802.11p" networks is rolled in
[IEEE-802.11-2016]
. In that document, the term "802.11p" disappears. Instead, each 802.11p
feature is conditioned by the IEEE Management Information Base (MIB) attribute "OCBActivated"
[IEEE-802.11-2016]
activated. For example, an 802.11 STAtion operating outside the context of a BSS has the
OCBActivated ﬂag set. Such a station, when it has the ﬂag set, uses a BSS identiﬁer equal to
ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ.

. Whenever OCBActivated is set to "true", the IEEE Std 802.11-OCB state is

Appendix B.  Aspects Introduced by OCB Mode to 802.11

In IEEE 802.11-OCB mode, all nodes in the wireless range can directly communicate with each
other without involving authentication or association procedures. In OCB mode, the manner in
which channels are selected and used is simpliﬁed compared to when in BSS mode. Contrary to
BSS mode, at the link layer, it is necessary to statically set the same channel number (or

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

frequency) on two stations that need to communicate with each other (in BSS mode, this channel
set operation is performed automatically during 'scanning'). The manner in which stations set
their channel number in OCB mode is not speciﬁed in this document. Stations STA1 and STA2 can
exchange IP packets only if they are set to the same channel. At the IP layer, they then discover
each other by using the IPv6 Neighbor Discovery protocol. The allocation of a particular channel
for a particular use is deﬁned statically in standards authored by ETSI in Europe, the FCC in the
United States of America, and similar organizations in South Korea, Japan, and other parts of the
world.

Brieﬂy, the IEEE 802.11-OCB mode has the following properties:

• The use by each node of a 'wildcard' BSS identiﬁer (BSSID) (i.e., each bit of the BSSID is set to

1).

• No IEEE 802.11 beacon frames are transmitted.

• No authentication is required in order to be able to communicate.

• No association is needed in order to be able to communicate.

• No encryption is provided in order to be able to communicate.

• Flag dot11OCBActivated is set to "true".

All the nodes in the radio communication range (IP-OBU and IP-RSU) receive all the messages
transmitted (IP-OBU and IP-RSU) within the radio communication range. The MAC CDMA
function resolves any eventual conﬂict(s).

The message exchange diagram in Figure 1 illustrates a comparison between traditional 802.11
and 802.11 in OCB mode. The 'Data' messages can be IP packets such as HTTP or others. Other
802.11 management and control frames (non-IP) may be transmitted, as speciﬁed in the 802.11
standard. The names of these messages as currently speciﬁed by the 802.11 standard are listed in
Appendix F.

   STA                    AP              STA1                   STA2
   |                      |               |                      |
   |<------ Beacon -------|               |<------ Data -------->|
   |                      |               |                      |
   |---- Probe Req. ----->|               |<------ Data -------->|
   |<--- Probe Res. ------|               |                      |
   |                      |               |<------ Data -------->|
   |---- Auth Req. ------>|               |                      |
   |<--- Auth Res. -------|               |<------ Data -------->|
   |                      |               |                      |
   |---- Asso Req. ------>|               |<------ Data -------->|
   |<--- Asso Res. -------|               |                      |
   |                      |               |<------ Data -------->|
   |<------ Data -------->|               |                      |
   |<------ Data -------->|               |<------ Data -------->|

      (i) 802.11 Infrastructure mode         (ii) 802.11-OCB mode

Figure 1: Diﬀerence between Messages Exchanged on 802.11 (Left) and 802.11-OCB (Right)

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

The 802.11-OCB interface was speciﬁed in
Vehicular Environments, as an amendment to
has been integrated into

[IEEE-802.11-2012]

[IEEE-802.11p-2010]

[IEEE-802.11-2007]

 and

.
[IEEE-802.11-2016]

, Amendment 6: Wireless Access in
. Since then, this amendment

[IEEE-802.11p-2010]

In
of a basic service" that is set to be "true" actually refers to OCB aspects introduced to 802.11.

, anything qualiﬁed speciﬁcally as "OCBActivated" or "outside the context

. The amendment is concerned with vehicular communications, where the

In order to delineate the aspects introduced by 802.11-OCB to 802.11, we refer to the earlier
[IEEE-802.11p-2010]
wireless link is similar to that of Wireless LAN (using a PHY layer speciﬁed by 802.11a/b/g/n) but
needs to cope with the high mobility factor inherent in scenarios of communications between
moving vehicles and between vehicles and ﬁxed infrastructure deployed along roads. While 'p' is
a letter identifying the Amendment, just like 'a', 'b', 'g', and 'n' are, 'p' is concerned more with MAC
modiﬁcations and is slightly concerned with PHY modiﬁcations; the others are mainly about PHY
modiﬁcations. It is possible in practice to combine a 'p' MAC with an 'a' PHY by operating outside
the context of a BSS with Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) at 5.4 GHz and 5.9
GHz.

The 802.11-OCB links are speciﬁed to be as compatible as possible with the behavior of 802.11a/b/
g/n and future generation IEEE WLAN links. From the IP perspective, an 802.11-OCB MAC layer
oﬀers practically the same interface to IP as 802.11a/b/g/n and 802.3. A packet sent by an IP-OBU
may be received by one or multiple IP-RSUs. The link-layer resolution is performed by using the
IPv6 Neighbor Discovery protocol.

To support this similarity statement (IPv6 is layered on top of LLC on top of 802.11-OCB in the
same way that IPv6 is layered on top of LLC on top of 802.11a/b/g/n (for WLAN) or on top of LLC
on top of 802.3 (for Ethernet)), it is useful to analyze the diﬀerences between the 802.11-OCB and
802.11 speciﬁcations. During this analysis, we note that whereas 802.11-OCB lists relatively
complex and numerous changes to the MAC layer (and very few to the PHY layer), there are only
a few characteristics that may be important for an implementation transmitting IPv6 packets on
802.11-OCB links.

The most important 802.11-OCB aspect that inﬂuences the IPv6 functioning is the OCB
characteristic; an additional, less direct inﬂuence is the maximum bandwidth aﬀorded by the
PHY modulation/demodulation methods and channel access speciﬁed by 802.11-OCB. The
maximum bandwidth theoretically possible in 802.11-OCB is 54 Mbit/s (when using, for example,
the following parameters: a 20 MHz channel; modulation of 64-QAM; a coding rate R of 3/4). With
regard to IP over 802.11-OCB, in practice, a commonly observed ﬁgure is 12 Mbit/s; this
bandwidth allows the operation of a wide range of protocols relying on IPv6.

• Operation outside the context of a BSS (OCB): The 802.11-OCB links (previously 802.11p) are
operated without a BSS. This means that IEEE 802.11 beacon, Association Request/Response,
Authentication Request/Response, and similar frames are not used. The used identiﬁer of BSS
(BSSID) always has a hexadecimal value of 0xﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀﬀ (48 '1' bits, represented as MAC
address ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ; otherwise, the 'wildcard' BSSID), as opposed to an arbitrary BSSID
value set by an administrator (e.g., 'My-Home-AccessPoint'). The OCB operation -- namely, the
lack of beacon-based scanning and lack of authentication -- should be taken into account

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

when the Mobile IPv6 protocol
are used. The way these protocols adapt to OCB is not described in this document.

 and the protocols for IP layer security

[RFC6275]

[RFC4301]

• Timing Advertisement: This is a new message deﬁned in 802.11-OCB that does not exist in
802.11a/b/g/n. This message is used by stations to inform other stations about the value of
time. It is similar to the time delivered by a Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) (e.g.,
Galileo, GPS, etc.) or by a cellular system. This message is optional for implementation.

• Frequency range: This is a characteristic of the PHY layer; it has almost no impact on the

interface between MAC and IP. However, it is worth considering that the frequency range is
regulated by a regional authority (ARCEP, ECC/CEPT based on ENs from ETSI, FCC, etc.); as
part of the regulation process, speciﬁc applications are associated with speciﬁc frequency
ranges. In the case of 802.11-OCB, the regulator associates a set of frequency ranges or slots
within a band to the use of applications of vehicular communications in a band known as
"5.9 GHz". The 5.9 GHz band is diﬀerent from the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz bands used by Wireless
LAN. However, as with Wireless LAN, the operation of 802.11-OCB in 5.9 GHz bands does not
require a license in the EU (in the US, the 5.9 GHz is a licensed band of spectrum; for the
ﬁxed infrastructure, explicit FCC authorization is required; for an on-board device, a
'licensed-by-rule' concept applies, where rule certiﬁcation conformity is required). Technical
conditions are diﬀerent from those of the "2.4 GHz" or "5 GHz" bands. The allowed power
levels and, implicitly, the maximum allowed distance between vehicles is 33 dBm for 802.11-
OCB (in Europe) compared to 20 dBm for Wireless LAN 802.11a/b/g/n; this leads to a
maximum distance of approximately 1 km compared to approximately 50 m. Additionally,
speciﬁc conditions related to congestion avoidance, jamming avoidance, and radar detection
are imposed on the use of DSRC (in the US) and on the use of frequencies for Intelligent
Transportation Systems (in the EU) compared to Wireless LAN (802.11a/b/g/n).

• 'Half-rate' encoding: As the frequency range, this parameter is related to PHY and thus does

not have much impact on the interface between the IP layer and the MAC layer.

• In vehicular communications using 802.11-OCB links, there are strong privacy requirements

with respect to addressing. While the 802.11-OCB standard does not specify anything in
particular with respect to MAC addresses, in these settings, there is a strong need for a
dynamic change of these addresses (as opposed to the non-vehicular settings -- real wall
protection -- where ﬁxed MAC addresses do not currently pose privacy risks). This is further
described in Section 5. A relevant function is described in

[IEEE-1609.3]

[IEEE-1609.4]

 and

.

Appendix C.  Changes Needed on an 802.11a Software Driver to
Become an 802.11-OCB Driver

The 802.11p amendment modiﬁes both the 802.11 stack's physical and MAC layers, but all the
induced modiﬁcations can be quite easily obtained by modifying an existing 802.11a ad hoc
stack.

The conditions for 802.11a hardware to be compliant with 802.11-OCB are as follows:

• The PHY entity shall be an OFDM system. It must support the frequency bands on which the
regulator recommends the use of ITS communications -- for example, using an IEEE 802.11-
OCB layer of 5875 MHz to 5925 MHz in France.

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

• The OFDM system must provide a "half-clocked" operation using 10 MHz channel spacings.

• The chip transmit spectrum mask must be compliant with the "Transmit spectrum mask"

from the IEEE 802.11p amendment (but experimental environments do not require
compliance).

• The chip should be able to transmit up to 44.8 dBm when used in the United States and up to

33 dBm in Europe; other regional conditions apply.

Changes needed on the network stack in OCB mode are as follows:

• Physical layer:

◦ Orthogonal frequency-division multiple access The chip must use the Orthogonal

Frequency Division Multiple Access (OFDMA) encoding mode.

◦ The chip must be set to half-mode rate mode (the internal clock frequency is divided by

two).

◦ The chip must use dedicated channels and should allow the use of higher emission powers.

This may require modiﬁcations to the local computer ﬁle that describes regulatory
domains rules if used by the kernel to enforce local speciﬁc restrictions. Such
modiﬁcations to the local computer ﬁle must respect the location-speciﬁc regulatory rules.

• MAC layer:

◦ All management frames (beacons, join, leave, and others) emission and reception must be
disabled, except for frames of subtype Action and Timing Advertisement (deﬁned below).

◦ No encryption key or method must be used.
◦ Packet emission and reception must be performed as in ad hoc mode using the wildcard

BSSID (ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ).

◦ The functions related to joining a BSS (Association Request/Response) and authentication

(Authentication Request/Reply, Challenge) are not called.

◦ The beacon interval is always set to 0 (zero).
◦ Timing Advertisement frames, deﬁned in the amendment, should be supported. The upper
layer should be able to trigger such frames emission and retrieve information contained in
the received Timing Advertisements.

Appendix D.  Protocol Layering

A more theoretical and detailed view of layer stacking and interfaces between the IP layer and
802.11-OCB layers is illustrated in Figure 2. The IP layer operates on top of EtherType Protocol
[IEEE-802.3-2012]
Discrimination (EPD). This discrimination layer is described in
between IPv6 and EPD is the LLC_SAP (Link Layer Control Service Access Point).

. The interface

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                 IPv6                  |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-{            }+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
             {   LLC_SAP  }                 802.11-OCB
 +-+-+-+-+-+-{            }+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+  Boundary
 |            EPD          |       |     |
 |                         | MLME  |     |
 +-+-+-{  MAC_SAP   }+-+-+-|  MLME_SAP   |
 |      MAC Sublayer       |       |     |  802.11-OCB
 |     and ch. coord.      |       | SME |  Services
 +-+-+-{   PHY_SAP  }+-+-+-+-+-+-+-|     |
 |                         | PLME  |     |
 |            PHY Layer    |   PLME_SAP  |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: EtherType Protocol Discrimination

Appendix E.  Design Considerations

The networks deﬁned by 802.11-OCB are in many ways similar to other networks of the 802.11
family. In theory, the transportation of IPv6 over 802.11-OCB could be very similar to the
operation of IPv6 over other networks of the 802.11 family. However, the high mobility, strong
link asymmetry, and very short connection makes the 802.11-OCB link signiﬁcantly diﬀerent
from other 802.11 networks. Also, automotive applications have speciﬁc requirements for
reliability, security, and privacy, which further add to the particularity of the 802.11-OCB link.

Appendix F.  IEEE 802.11 Messages Transmitted in OCB Mode

At the time of writing, this is the list of IEEE 802.11 messages that may be transmitted in OCB
mode, i.e., when dot11OCBActivated is true in a STA:

• The STA may send management frames of subtype Action and, if the STA maintains a TSF

Timer, subtype Timing Advertisement.

• The STA may send control frames except those of subtype PS-Poll, CF-End, and CF-End plus

CFAck.

• The STA

MUST

 send data frames of subtype QoS Data.

Appendix G.  Examples of Packet Formats

This section describes an example of an IPv6 packet captured over an IEEE 802.11-OCB link.

By way of example, we show that there is no modiﬁcation in the headers when transmitted over
802.11-OCB networks -- they are transmitted like any other 802.11 and Ethernet packets.

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

We describe an experiment for capturing an IPv6 packet on an 802.11-OCB link. In the topology
depicted in Figure 3, the packet is an IPv6 Router Advertisement. This packet is emitted by a
router on its 802.11-OCB interface. The packet is captured on the host using a network protocol
analyzer (e.g., Wireshark). The capture is performed in two diﬀerent modes: direct mode and
monitor mode. The topology used during the capture is depicted below.

The packet is captured on the host. The host is an IP-OBU containing an 802.11 interface in
Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) Express format (an Industrial Technology Research
Institute (ITRI) product). The kernel runs the ath5k software driver with modiﬁcations for OCB
mode. The capture tool is Wireshark. The ﬁle format for saving and analyzing is .pcap. The
packet is generated by the router, which is an IP-RSU (an ITRI product).

   +--------+                                +-------+
   |        |        802.11-OCB Link         |       |
---| Router |--------------------------------| Host  |
   |        |                                |       |
   +--------+                                +-------+

Figure 3: Topology for Capturing IP Packets on 802.11-OCB

During several capture operations running from a few moments to several hours, no messages
relevant to the BSSID contexts were captured (Association Request/Response, Authentication Req/
Resp, or beacon). This shows that the operation of 802.11-OCB is outside the context of a BSSID.

Overall, the captured message is identical to a capture of an IPv6 packet emitted on an 802.11b
interface. The contents are exactly the same.

G.1.  Capture in Monitor Mode

The IPv6 RA packet captured in monitor mode is illustrated below. The Radiotap header provides
more ﬂexibility for reporting the characteristics of frames. The Radiotap header is prepended by
this particular stack and operating system on the host machine to the RA packet received from
the network (the Radiotap header is not present on the air). The implementation-dependent
Radiotap header is useful for piggybacking PHY information from the chip's registers as data in a
packet that is understandable by userland applications using socket interfaces (the PHY interface
can be, for example, power levels, data rate, or the ratio of signal to noise).

The packet present on the air is formed by the IEEE 802.11 Data header, Logical Link Control
header, IPv6 Base header, and ICMPv6 header.

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Header Revision|  Header Pad   |    Header Length              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                         Present Flags                         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Data Rate     |             Pad                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: Radiotap Header v0

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  Type/Subtype and Frame Ctrl  |          Duration             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Receiver Address...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
... Receiver Address           |      Transmitter Address...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 ... Transmitter Address                                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            BSS ID...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 ... BSS ID                     |  Frag Number and Seq Number   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: IEEE 802.11 Data Header

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      DSAP   |I|     SSAP    |C| Control Field | Org. Code...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 ... Organizational Code        |             Type              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: Logical Link Control Header

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Version| Traffic Class |           Flow Label                  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|         Payload Length        |  Next Header  |   Hop Limit   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+                         Source Address                        +
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+                      Destination Address                      +
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: IPv6 Base Header

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |     Code      |          Checksum             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Cur Hop Limit |M|O|  Reserved |       Router Lifetime         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                         Reachable Time                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          Retrans Timer                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Options ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Figure 8: Router Advertisement

The value of the Data Rate ﬁeld in the Radiotap header is set to 6 Mb/s. This indicates the rate at
which this RA was received.

The value of the Transmitter Address in the IEEE 802.11 Data header is set to a 48-bit value. The
value of the destination address is 33:33:00:00:00:1 (all-nodes multicast address). The value of the
BSS ID ﬁeld is ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ, which is recognized by the network protocol analyzer as being
"broadcast". The Fragment number and Sequence number ﬁelds together are set to 0x90C6.

The value of the Organization Code ﬁeld in the Logical Link Control header is set to 0x0,
recognized as "Encapsulated Ethernet". The value of the Type ﬁeld is 0x86DD (hexadecimal 86DD;
otherwise, #86DD), recognized as "IPv6".

A Router Advertisement is periodically sent by the router to multicast group address ﬀ02::1. It is
ICMP packet type 134. The IPv6 Neighbor Discovery's Router Advertisement message contains an
8-bit ﬁeld reserved for single-bit ﬂags, as described in

[RFC4861]

.

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

The IPv6 header contains the link-local address of the router (source) conﬁgured via the EUI-64
algorithm, and the destination address is set to ﬀ02::1.

The Ethernet Type ﬁeld in the Logical Link Control header is set to 0x86dd, which indicates that
the frame transports an IPv6 packet. In the IEEE 802.11 data, the destination address is
33:33:00:00:00:01, which is the corresponding multicast MAC address. The BSS ID is a broadcast
address of ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ:ﬀ. Due to the short link duration between vehicles and the roadside
infrastructure, there is no need in IEEE 802.11-OCB to wait for the completion of association and
authentication procedures before exchanging data. IEEE 802.11-OCB enabled nodes use the
wildcard BSSID (a value of all 1s) and may start communicating as soon as they arrive on the
communication channel.

G.2.  Capture in Normal Mode

The same IPv6 Router Advertisement packet described above (monitor mode) is captured on the
host in normal mode and is depicted below.

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       Destination...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
...Destination                 |           Source...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
...Source                                                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|          Type                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 9: Ethernet II Header

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Version| Traffic Class |           Flow Label                  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|         Payload Length        |  Next Header  |   Hop Limit   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+                         Source Address                        +
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+                      Destination Address                      +
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 10: IPv6 Base Header

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |     Code      |          Checksum             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Cur Hop Limit |M|O|  Reserved |       Router Lifetime         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                         Reachable Time                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          Retrans Timer                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Options ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Figure 11: Router Advertisement

One notices that the Radiotap header, the IEEE 802.11 Data header, and the Logical Link Control
headers are not present. On the other hand, a new header named the Ethernet II header is
present.

The Destination and Source addresses in the Ethernet II header contain the same values as the
Receiver Address and Transmitter Address ﬁelds present in the IEEE 802.11 Data header in the
monitor mode capture.

The value of the Type ﬁeld in the Ethernet II header is 0x86DD (recognized as "IPv6"); this value
is the same as the value of the Type ﬁeld in the Logical Link Control header in the monitor mode
capture.

The knowledgeable experimenter will no doubt notice the similarity of this Ethernet II header
with a capture in normal mode on a pure Ethernet cable interface.

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

A frame translation is inserted on top of a pure IEEE 802.11 MAC layer in order to adapt packets
before delivering the payload data to the applications. It adapts 802.11 LLC/MAC headers to
Ethernet II headers. Speciﬁcally, this adaptation consists of the elimination of the Radiotap,
802.11, and LLC headers and the insertion of the Ethernet II header. In this way, IPv6 runs
straight over LLC over the 802.11-OCB MAC layer; this is further conﬁrmed by the use of the
unique Type 0x86DD.

Appendix H.  Extra Terminology

The following terms are deﬁned outside the IETF. They are used to deﬁne the main terms in the
terminology section (Section 2).

DSRC (Dedicated Short Range Communication):

The US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Dedicated Short Range Communication
(DSRC) is deﬁned in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 47, Parts 90
[CFR-95]
document, the last update of this Code was dated December 6, 2019.

. This Code is referenced in the deﬁnitions below. At the time of the writing of this

[CFR-90]

 and 95

DSRCS (Dedicated Short-Range Communications Services):

Radio techniques are used to transfer data over short distances between roadside and
mobile units, between mobile units, and between portable and mobile units to perform
operations related to the improvement of traﬃc ﬂow, traﬃc safety, and other intelligent
transportation service applications in a variety of environments. DSRCS systems may also
transmit status and instructional messages related to the units involved.

[CFR-90.7]

OBU (On-Board Unit):

An On-Board Unit is a DSRCS transceiver that is normally mounted in or on a vehicle or
may be a portable unit in some instances. An OBU can be operational while a vehicle or
person is either mobile or stationary. The OBUs receive and contend for time to transmit
on one or more radio frequency (RF) channels. Except where speciﬁcally excluded, OBU
operation is permitted wherever vehicle operation or human passage is permitted. The
OBUs mounted in vehicles are licensed by rule under part 95 of
 and communicate
with Roadside Units (RSUs) and other OBUs. Portable OBUs are also licensed by rule under
part 95 of
. OBU operations in the Unlicensed National Information Infrastructure
(U-NII) Bands follow the rules in those bands.

[CFR-90.7]

[CFR-95]

[CFR-95]

RSU (Roadside Unit):

A Roadside Unit is a DSRC transceiver that is mounted along a road or pedestrian
passageway. An RSU may also be mounted on a vehicle or may be hand carried, but it may
only operate when the vehicle or hand-carried unit is stationary. Perhaps Furthermore, an
RSU is restricted to the location where it is licensed to operate. However, portable or
handheld RSUs are permitted to operate where they do not interfere with a site-licensed
operation. An RSU broadcasts data to OBUs or exchanges data with OBUs in its
communications zone. An RSU also provides channel assignments and operating
instructions to OBUs in its communications zone when required.

[CFR-90.7]

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

Appendix I.  Neighbor Discovery (ND) Potential Issues in
Wireless Links

[RFC4861] [RFC4862]

IPv6 Neighbor Discovery (IPv6 ND)
transit links, such as Ethernet, with the expectation of cheap and reliable support for multicast
from the lower layer.
 indicates that the operation on shared media and
on NBMA networks require additional support, e.g., for AR and DAD, which depend on multicast.
An infrastructureless radio network such as OCB shares properties with both shared media and
NBMA networks and then adds its own complexity, e.g., from movement and interference that
allow only transient and non-transitive reachability between any set of peers.

 was designed for point-to-point and

Section 3.2 of [RFC4861]

[RFC4861]

The uniqueness of an address within a scoped domain is a key pillar of IPv6 and is the basis for
unicast IP communication.
 details the DAD method to prevent an address from being
duplicated. For a link-local address, the scope is the link, whereas for a globally reachable
address, the scope is much larger. The underlying assumption for DAD to operate correctly is that
the node that owns an IPv6 address can reach any other node within the scope at the time it
claims its address, which is done by sending a Neighbor Solicitation (NS) multicast message, and
can hear any future claim for that address by another party within the scope for the duration of
the address ownership.

In the case of OCB, there is a potentially a need to deﬁne a scope that is compatible with DAD. The
scope cannot be the set of nodes that a transmitter can reach at a particular time because that set
varies all the time and does not meet the DAD requirements for a link-local address that can be
used anytime and anywhere. The generic expectation of a reliable multicast is not ensured, and
the operation of DAD and AR as speciﬁed by
 cannot be guaranteed. Moreover,
multicast transmissions that rely on broadcast are not only unreliable but are also often
detrimental to unicast traﬃc (see

[IEEE802-MCAST]

[RFC4861]

).

Early experience indicates that it should be possible to exchange IPv6 packets over OCB while
relying on IPv6 ND alone for DAD and AR (Address Resolution) in good conditions. In the absence
of a correct DAD operation, a node that relies only on IPv6 ND for AR and DAD over OCB should
ensure that the addresses that it uses are unique by means other than DAD. It must be noted that
deriving an IPv6 address from a globally unique MAC address has this property but may yield
privacy issues.

 provides a more recent approach to IPv6 ND, in particular DAD.

 is designed
[RFC8505]
to ﬁt wireless and otherwise constrained networks whereby multicast and/or continuous access
to the medium may not be guaranteed.
Registration") indicates that the scope of uniqueness for a link-local address is restricted to a pair
of nodes that uses it to communicate and provides a method to assert the uniqueness and resolve
the link-layer address using a unicast exchange.

 ("Link-Local Addresses and

[RFC8505], Section 5.6

[RFC8505]

 also enables a router (acting as a 6LR) to own a preﬁx and act as a registrar (acting as

[RFC8505]
a 6LBR) for addresses within the associated subnet. A peer host (acting as a 6LN) registers an
address derived from that preﬁx and can use it for the lifetime of the registration. The preﬁx is
advertised as not on-link, which means that the 6LN uses the 6LR to relay its packets within the

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

subnet, and participation to the subnet is constrained to the time of reachability to the 6LR. Note
that an RSU that provides internet connectivity
, whereas a car that does not provide that connectivity
[RFC4191]
presents similarities to that of an access point, but at Layer 3. This is why
for wireless in general.

 do so. This operation
 is well suited

 announce a default router preference

[RFC8505]

MUST NOT

MAY

[RFC8505]

 may be implemented on OCB. OCB nodes that support

Support of
support the 6LN operation in order to act as a host and may support the 6LR and 6LBR
operations in order to act as a router and in particular to own a preﬁx that can be used by hosts
that are compliant with

 for address autoconﬁguration and registration.

[RFC8505] SHOULD

[RFC8505]

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Alexandre Petrescu
lead author up to draft version 43 of this document.

 for initiating this work and for being the

The authors would like to thank
modiﬁcations for this document.

Pascal Thubert

 for reviewing, proofreading, and suggesting

The authors would like to thank
modiﬁcations for this document.

Mohamed Boucadair

 for proofreading and suggesting

The authors would like to thank
document.

Eric Vyncke

 for reviewing the suggesting modiﬁcations of this

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,
,

,
,

,
,

Witold Klaudel Ryuji Wakikawa Emmanuel Baccelli John

The authors would like to thank
,
,
Kenney John Moring Francois Simon Dan Romascanu Konstantin Khait Ralph Droms Richard
'Dick' Roy Ray Hunter Tom Kurihara Michal Sojka Jan de Jongh Suresh Krishnan Dino
,
Farinacci Vincent Park Jaehoon Paul Jeong Gloria Gwynne Hans-Joachim Fischer Russ
,
Housley Rex Buddenberg Erik Nordmark Bob Moskowitz Andrew Dryden Georg Mayer
,
Dorothy Stanley Sandra Cespedes Mariano Falcitelli Sri Gundavelli Abdussalam Baryun
,
Margaret Cullen Erik Kline Carlos Jesus Bernardos Cano Ronald in 't Velt Katrin Sjoberg
Roland Bless Tijink Jasja Kevin Smith Brian Carpenter Julian Reschke Mikael Abrahamsson
,
,
,
Dirk von Hugo Lorenzo Colitti Pascal Thubert Ole Troan Jinmei Tatuya Joel Halpern Eric Gray
and
. Their valuable comments clariﬁed particular issues and generally helped to
William Whyte
improve the document.

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Pierre Pﬁster Rostislav Lisovy

,

, and others wrote 802.11-OCB drivers for Linux.

For the multicast discussion, the authors would like to thank
Linkova Erik Kline Brian Haberman
groups.

,
Owen DeLong Joe Touch Jen
, and participants to discussions in network working

,

,

,

The authors would like to thank the participants of the Birds-of-a-Feather "Intelligent
Transportation Systems" meetings held at IETF in 2016.

The human rights protocol considerations review was done by

Amelia Andersdotter

.

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

The work of
grant funded by the Korea government (MSIT) (NRF-2018R1A4A1025632).

Jong-Hyouk Lee

 was supported by the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF)

Jérôme Härri

The work of
 was supported by EURECOM industrial members, namely BMW Group,
IABG, Monaco Telecom, Orange, SAP and Symantec. This RFC reﬂects the view of the IPWAVE WG
and does not necessarily reﬂect the oﬃcial policy or position of EURECOM industrial members.

Contributors

Christian Huitema

 and

Tony Li

 contributed to this document.

Romain Kuntz
the context of a BSS (802.11-OCB links).

 contributed extensively regarding IPv6 handovers between links running outside

Tim Leinmueller
certiﬁcates.

 contributed the idea of the use of IPv6 over 802.11-OCB for the distribution of

Marios Makassikis Jose Santa Lozano Albin Severinson
signiﬁcant feedback on the experience of using IP messages over 802.11-OCB in initial trials.

Alexey Voronov

 provided

, and

,

,

Michelle Wetterwald
perspective, and reviewed other parts of the document.

 contributed extensively to the MTU discussion, oﬀered the ETSI ITS

Authors' Addresses

Nabil Benamar
Moulay Ismail University of Meknes
Morocco
Phone:
Email:

 +212670832236
 n.benamar@est.umi.ac.ma

Jérôme Härri
EURECOM
06904 Sophia-Antipolis
France
Phone:
Email:

 +33493008134
 Jerome.Haerri@eurecom.fr

Jong-Hyouk Lee
Sangmyung University
31, Sangmyeongdae-gil, Dongnam-gu
Cheonan
31066
Republic of Korea
Email:

 jonghyouk@smu.ac.kr

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8691

IPv6 over 802.11-OCB

December 2019

Thierry ERNST
YoGoKo
1137A Avenue des Champs-Blancs
35510 CESON-SEVIGNE
France
Email:

 thierry.ernst@yogoko.fr

Benamar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

