Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8967
7298
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721

Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:
C. Dô
IRIF, University of Paris-Diderot

W. Kolodziejak
IRIF, University of Paris-Diderot

J. Chroboczek
IRIF, University of Paris-Diderot

RFC 8967
MAC Authentication for the Babel Routing Protocol

Abstract

This document describes a cryptographic authentication mechanism for the Babel routing
protocol that has provisions for replay avoidance. This document obsoletes RFC 7298.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8967

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Applicability

1.2.  Assumptions and Security Properties

1.3.  Speciﬁcation of Requirements

2.  Conceptual Overview of the Protocol

3.  Data Structures

3.1.  The Interface Table

3.2.  The Neighbour Table

4.  Protocol Operation

4.1.  MAC Computation

4.2.  Packet Transmission

4.3.  Packet Reception

4.4.  Expiring Per-Neighbour State

5.  Incremental Deployment and Key Rotation

6.  Packet Format

6.1.  MAC TLV

6.2.  PC TLV

6.3.  Challenge Request TLV

6.4.  Challenge Reply TLV

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informational References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

1.  Introduction

By default, the Babel routing protocol
datagram that it receives on the Babel port. An attacker can redirect traﬃc to itself or to a
diﬀerent node in the network, causing a variety of potential issues. In particular, an attacker
might:

 trusts the information contained in every UDP

[RFC8966]

•

spoof a Babel packet and redirect traﬃc by announcing a route with a smaller metric, a
larger sequence number, or a longer preﬁx;

•

spoof a malformed packet, which could cause an insuﬃciently robust implementation to
crash or interfere with the rest of the network;

•

replay a previously captured Babel packet, which could cause traﬃc to be redirected or
otherwise interfere with the network.

Protecting a Babel network is challenging due to the fact that the Babel protocol uses both
unicast and multicast communication. One possible approach, used notably by the Babel over
Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) protocol
for all semantically signiﬁcant communication, and then use a standard unicast security protocol
to protect the Babel traﬃc. In this document, we take the opposite approach: we deﬁne a
cryptographic extension to the Babel protocol that is able to protect both unicast and multicast
traﬃc and thus requires very few changes to the core protocol. This document obsoletes
.
[RFC7298]

, is to use unicast communication

[RFC8968]

1.1.  Applicability

The protocol deﬁned in this document assumes that all interfaces on a given link are equally
trusted and share a small set of symmetric keys (usually just one, and two during key rotation).
The protocol is inapplicable in situations where asymmetric keying is required, where the trust
relationship is partial, or where large numbers of trusted keys are provisioned on a single link at
the same time.

This protocol supports incremental deployment (where an insecure Babel network is made
secure with no service interruption), and it supports graceful key rotation (where the set of keys
is changed with no service interruption).

This protocol does not require synchronised clocks, it does not require persistently monotonic
clocks, and it does not require persistent storage except for what might be required for storing
cryptographic keys.

1.2.  Assumptions and Security Properties

The correctness of the protocol relies on the following assumptions:

•

that the Message Authentication Code (MAC) being used is invulnerable to forgery, i.e., that
an attacker is unable to generate a packet with a correct MAC without access to the secret
key;

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

•

that a node never generates the same index or nonce twice over the lifetime of a key.

The ﬁrst assumption is a property of the MAC being used. The second assumption can be met
either by using a robust random number generator
nonces, by using a reliable hardware clock, or by rekeying often enough that collisions are
unlikely.

 and suﬃciently large indices and

[RFC4086]

If the assumptions above are met, the protocol described in this document has the following
properties:

•

it is invulnerable to spooﬁng: any Babel packet accepted as authentic is the exact copy of a
packet originally sent by an authorised node;

•

locally to a single node, it is invulnerable to replay: if a node has previously accepted a given
packet, then it will never again accept a copy of this packet or an earlier packet from the
same sender;

•

among diﬀerent nodes, it is only vulnerable to immediate replay: if a node A has accepted an
authentic packet from C, then a node B will only accept a copy of that packet if B has
accepted an older packet from C, and B has received no later packet from C.

While this protocol makes eﬀorts to mitigate the eﬀects of a denial of service attack, it does not
fully protect against such attacks.

1.3.  Speciﬁcation of Requirements

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Conceptual Overview of the Protocol

When a node B sends out a Babel packet through an interface that is conﬁgured for MAC
cryptographic protection, it computes one or more MACs (one per key) that it appends to the
packet. When a node A receives a packet over an interface that requires MAC cryptographic
protection, it independently computes a set of MACs and compares them to the MACs appended
to the packet; if there is no match, the packet is discarded.

In order to protect against replay, B maintains a per-interface 32-bit integer known as the "packet
counter" (PC). Whenever B sends a packet through the interface, it embeds the current value of
the PC within the region of the packet that is protected by the MACs and increases the PC by at
least one. When A receives the packet, it compares the value of the PC with the one contained in
the previous packet received from B, and unless it is strictly greater, the packet is discarded.

By itself, the PC mechanism is not suﬃcient to protect against replay. Consider a peer A that has
no information about a peer B (e.g., because it has recently rebooted). Suppose that A receives a
packet ostensibly from B carrying a given PC; since A has no information about B, it has no way
to determine whether the packet is freshly generated or a replay of a previously sent packet.

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

In this situation, peer A discards the packet and challenges B to prove that it knows the MAC key.
It sends a "Challenge Request", a TLV containing a unique nonce, a value that has never been
used before and will never be used again. Peer B replies to the Challenge Request with a
"Challenge Reply", a TLV containing a copy of the nonce chosen by A, in a packet protected by
MAC and containing the new value of B's PC. Since the nonce has never been used before, B's
reply proves B's knowledge of the MAC key and the freshness of the PC.

By itself, this mechanism is safe against replay if B never resets its PC. In practice, however, this
is diﬃcult to ensure, as persistent storage is prone to failure, and hardware clocks, even when
available, are occasionally reset. Suppose that B resets its PC to an earlier value and sends a
packet with a previously used PC n. Peer A challenges B, B successfully responds to the challenge,
and A accepts the PC equal to n + 1. At this point, an attacker C may send a replayed packet with
PC equal to n + 2, which will be accepted by A.

Another mechanism is needed to protect against this attack. In this protocol, every PC is tagged
with an "index", an arbitrary string of octets. Whenever B resets its PC, or whenever B doesn't
know whether its PC has been reset, it picks an index that it has never used before (either by
drawing it randomly or by using a reliable hardware clock) and starts sending PCs with that
index. Whenever A detects that B has changed its index, it challenges B again.

With this additional mechanism, this protocol is invulnerable to replay attacks (see Section 1.2).

3.  Data Structures

Every Babel node maintains a set of conceptual data structures described in
[RFC8966]
. This protocol extends these data structures as follows.

Section 3.2 of

3.1.  The Interface Table

MUST

Every Babel node maintains an interface table, as described in
 allow each interface to be provisioned with a set of one
Implementations of this protocol
or more MAC keys and the associated MAC algorithms (see Section 4.1 for suggested algorithms
and Section 7 for suggested methods for key generation). In order to allow incremental
deployment of this protocol (see Section 5), implementations
 allow an interface to be
conﬁgured in a mode in which it participates in the MAC authentication protocol but accepts
packets that are not authenticated.

Section 3.2.3 of [RFC8966]

SHOULD

.

This protocol extends each table entry associated with an interface on which MAC authentication
has been conﬁgured with two new pieces of data:

•

a set of one or more MAC keys, each associated with a given MAC algorithm;

•

a pair (Index, PC), where Index is an arbitrary string of 0 to 32 octets, and PC is a 32-bit (4-
octet) integer.

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

We say that an index is fresh when it has never been used before with any of the keys currently
conﬁgured on the interface. The Index ﬁeld is initialised to a fresh index, for example, by
drawing a random string of suﬃcient length (see Section 7 for suggested sizes), and the PC is
initialised to an arbitrary value (typically 0).

3.2.  The Neighbour Table

Every Babel node maintains a neighbour table, as described in
protocol extends each entry in this table with two new pieces of data:

Section 3.2.4 of [RFC8966]

. This

•

a pair (Index, PC), where Index is a string of 0 to 32 octets, and PC is a 32-bit (4-octet) integer;

•

a Nonce, which is an arbitrary string of 0 to 192 octets, and an associated challenge expiry
timer.

The Index and PC are initially undeﬁned, and they are managed as described in Section 4.3. The
Nonce and challenge expiry timer are initially undeﬁned, and they are used as described in
Section 4.3.1.1.

4.  Protocol Operation

4.1.  MAC Computation

A Babel node computes the MAC of a Babel packet as follows.

First, the node builds a pseudo-header that will participate in MAC computation but will not be
sent. If the packet is carried over IPv6, the pseudo-header has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+                          Src address                          +
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|           Src port            |                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               +
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|                         Dest address                          |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               |           Dest port           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

If the packet is carried over IPv4, the pseudo-header has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          Src address                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|           Src port            |        Dest address           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               |           Dest port           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Fields:

Src address

The source IP address of the packet.

Src port

The source UDP port number of the packet.

Dest address

The destination IP address of the packet.

Src port

The destination UDP port number of the packet.

The node takes the concatenation of the pseudo-header and the Babel packet including the
packet header but excluding the packet trailer (from octet 0 inclusive up to (Body Length + 4)
exclusive) and computes a MAC with one of the implemented algorithms. Every implementation
MUST
implement keyed BLAKE2s
MAC algorithms.

 implement HMAC-SHA256 as deﬁned in

 with 128-bit (16-octet) digests, and

Section 2 of [RFC2104] SHOULD

 implement other

[RFC7693]

[RFC6234]

 and

MAY

,

4.2.  Packet Transmission

A Babel node might delay actually sending TLVs by a small amount, in order to aggregate
multiple TLVs in a single packet up to the interface MTU (
on which MAC protection is conﬁgured, the TLV aggregation logic
overhead due to PC TLVs (one in each packet) and MAC TLVs (one per conﬁgured key).

Section 4 of [RFC8966]
MUST

 take into account the

). For an interface

Before sending a packet, the following actions are performed:

•

a PC TLV containing the PC and Index associated with the outgoing interface
appended to the packet body;

MUST

 be

◦

◦

the PC

MUST

 be incremented by a strictly positive amount (typically just 1);

if the PC overﬂows, a fresh index

MUST

 be generated (as deﬁned in Section 3.1);

a node

MUST NOT

 include multiple PC TLVs in a single packet;

•

for each key conﬁgured on the interface, a MAC is computed as speciﬁed in Section 4.1 and
stored in a MAC TLV that
[RFC8966]

 be appended to the packet trailer (see

Section 4.2 of

MUST

).

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

4.3.  Packet Reception

When a packet is received on an interface that is conﬁgured for MAC protection, the following
steps are performed before the packet is passed to normal processing:

•

MUST

First, the receiver checks whether the trailer of the received packet carries at least one MAC
TLV; if not, the packet
 be immediately dropped and processing stops. Then, for each
key conﬁgured on the receiving interface, the receiver computes the MAC of the packet. It
then compares every generated MAC against every MAC included in the packet; if there is at
least one match, the packet passes the MAC test; if there is none, the packet
 be silently
dropped and processing stops at this point. In order to avoid memory exhaustion attacks, an
entry in the neighbour table
successfully. The MAC of the packet
the packet, but only once for each conﬁgured key.

 be computed for each MAC TLV contained in

 be created before the MAC test has passed

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST

•

 be created at this
If an entry for the sender does not exist in the neighbour table, it
point (or, alternatively, its creation can be delayed until a challenge needs to be sent, see
below).

MAY

•

The packet body is then parsed a ﬁrst time. During this "preparse" phase, the packet body is
traversed and all TLVs are ignored except PC, Challenge Request, and Challenge Reply TLVs.
When a PC TLV is encountered, the enclosed PC and Index are saved for later processing. If
multiple PCs are found (which should not happen, see Section 4.2), only the ﬁrst one is
processed, the remaining ones
encountered, a Challenge Reply
Challenge Reply is encountered, it is tested for validity as described in Section 4.3.1.3, and a
note is made of the result of the test.

 be scheduled, as described in Section 4.3.1.2. If a

 be silently ignored. If a Challenge Request is

MUST

MUST

•

The preparse phase above yields two pieces of data: the PC and Index from the ﬁrst PC TLV,
and a bit indicating whether the packet contains a successful Challenge Reply. If the packet
does not contain a PC TLV, the packet
 be dropped, and processing stops at this point. If
the packet contains a successful Challenge Reply, then the PC and Index contained in the PC
TLV
exists in this case), and the packet is accepted.

 be stored in the neighbour table entry corresponding to the sender (which already

MUST

MUST

•

Otherwise, if there is no entry in the neighbour table corresponding to the sender, or if such
an entry exists but contains no Index, or if the Index it contains is diﬀerent from the Index
contained in the PC TLV, then a challenge
MUST
packet

 be dropped, and processing stops at this stage.

 be sent as described in Section 4.3.1.1, the

MUST

•

At this stage, the packet contains no successful Challenge Reply, and the Index contained in
the PC TLV is equal to the Index in the neighbour table entry corresponding to the sender.
The receiver compares the received PC with the PC contained in the neighbour table; if the
received PC is smaller or equal than the PC contained in the neighbour table, the packet
 be dropped and processing stops (no challenge is sent in this case, since the mismatch
MUST
might be caused by harmless packet reordering on the link). Otherwise, the PC contained in
the neighbour table entry is set to the received PC, and the packet is accepted.

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

In the algorithm described above, Challenge Requests are processed and challenges are sent
before the (Index, PC) pair is veriﬁed against the neighbour table. This simpliﬁes the
implementation somewhat (the node may simply schedule outgoing requests as it walks the
packet during the preparse phase) but relies on the rate limiting described in Section 4.3.1.1 to
avoid sending too many challenges in response to replayed packets. As an optimisation, a node
 ignore a
MAY
Challenge Request in the case where it is contained in a packet with an Index that matches the
one in the neighbour table and a PC that is smaller or equal to the one contained in the
neighbour table. Since it is still possible to replay a packet with an obsolete Index, the rate
limiting described in Section 4.3.1.1 is required even if this optimisation is implemented.

 ignore all Challenge Requests contained in a packet except the last one, and it

MAY

The same is true of Challenge Replies. However, since validating a Challenge Reply has minimal
additional cost (it is just a bitwise comparison of two strings of octets), a similar optimisation for
Challenge Replies is not worthwhile.

After the packet has been accepted, it is processed as normal, except that any PC, Challenge
Request, and Challenge Reply TLVs that it contains are silently ignored.

4.3.1.  Challenge Requests and Replies

During the preparse stage, the receiver might encounter a mismatched Index, to which it will
react by scheduling a Challenge Request. It might encounter a Challenge Request TLV, to which it
will reply with a Challenge Reply TLV. Finally, it might encounter a Challenge Reply TLV, which it
will attempt to match with a previously sent Challenge Request TLV in order to update the
neighbour table entry corresponding to the sender of the packet.

4.3.1.1.  Sending Challenges

When it encounters a mismatched Index during the preparse phase, a node picks a nonce that it
has never used with any of the keys currently conﬁgured on the relevant interface, for example,
by drawing a suﬃciently large random string of bytes or by consulting a strictly monotonic
hardware clock. It
the neighbour (the entry might need to be created at this stage), initialise the neighbour's
challenge expiry timer to 30 seconds, and send a Challenge Request TLV to the unicast address
corresponding to the neighbour.

 then store the nonce in the entry of the neighbour table associated to

MUST

MAY

 aggregate a Challenge Request with other TLVs; in other words, if it has already

A node
buﬀered TLVs to be sent to the unicast address of the neighbour, it
the same packet as the Challenge Request. However, it
be sent in a timely manner, as any packets received from that neighbour will be silently ignored
until the challenge completes.

 send the buﬀered TLVs in
 arrange for the Challenge Request to

MUST

MAY

MUST

 impose a rate limitation to the challenges it sends; the limit

A node
Challenge Request every 300 ms and
First, since a challenge may be sent in response to a packet replayed by an attacker, it limits the
number of challenges that an attacker can cause a node to send. Second, it limits the number of
challenges sent when there are multiple packets in ﬂight from a single neighbour.

 be conﬁgurable. This rate limiting serves two purposes.

 default to one

SHOULD

MAY

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

4.3.1.2.  Replying to Challenges

When it encounters a Challenge Request during the preparse phase, a node constructs a
Challenge Reply TLV by copying the Nonce from the Challenge Request into the Challenge Reply.
 then send the Challenge Reply to the unicast address from which the Challenge Request
It
was sent. A challenge sent to a multicast address
MUST

 be silently ignored.

MUST

MAY

 aggregate a Challenge Reply with other TLVs; in other words, if it has already

A node
buﬀered TLVs to be sent to the unicast address of the sender of the Challenge Request, it
MAY
 arrange for
send the buﬀered TLVs in the same packet as the Challenge Reply. However, it
the Challenge Reply to be sent in a timely manner (within a few seconds) and
 send
any other packets over the same interface before sending the Challenge Reply, as those would be
dropped by the challenger.

SHOULD NOT

MUST

Since a Challenge Reply might be caused by a replayed Challenge Request, a node
rate limitation to the Challenge Replies it sends; the limit
for each peer every 300 ms and

 impose a
 default to one Challenge Reply

 be conﬁgurable.

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

4.3.1.3.  Receiving Challenge Replies

When it encounters a Challenge Reply during the preparse phase, a node consults the neighbour
table entry corresponding to the neighbour that sent the Challenge Reply. If no challenge is in
progress, i.e., if there is no Nonce stored in the neighbour table entry or the challenge timer has
expired, the Challenge Reply

 be silently ignored, and the challenge has failed.

MUST

Otherwise, the node compares the Nonce contained in the Challenge Reply with the Nonce
contained in the neighbour table entry. If the two are equal (they have the same length and
content), then the challenge has succeeded and the nonce stored in the neighbour table for this
neighbour
discarded).

 be discarded; otherwise, the challenge has failed (and the nonce is not

SHOULD

4.4.  Expiring Per-Neighbour State

The per-neighbour (Index, PC) pair is maintained in the neighbour table, and is normally
discarded when the neighbour table entry expires. Implementations
PC) pair is discarded within a ﬁnite time since the last time a packet has been accepted. In
particular, unsuccessful challenges
for unbounded periods of time.

 prevent an (Index, PC) pair from being discarded

 ensure that an (Index,

MUST NOT

MUST

A possible implementation strategy for implementations that use a Hello history (Appendix A of
) is to discard the (Index, PC) pair whenever the Hello history becomes empty. Another
[RFC8966]
implementation strategy is to use a timer that is reset whenever a packet is accepted and to
discard the (Index, PC) pair whenever the timer expires. If the latter strategy is used, the timer
SHOULD

 default to a value of 5 minutes and

 be conﬁgurable.

MAY

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

5.  Incremental Deployment and Key Rotation

In order to perform incremental deployment, the nodes in the network are ﬁrst conﬁgured in a
mode where packets are sent with authentication but not checked on reception. Once all the
nodes in the network are conﬁgured to send authenticated packets, nodes are reconﬁgured to
reject unauthenticated packets.

In order to perform key rotation, the new key is added to all the nodes. Once this is done, both
the old and the new key are sent in all packets, and packets are accepted if they are properly
signed by either of the keys. At that point, the old key is removed.

In order to support the procedures described above, implementations of this protocol
support an interface conﬁguration in which packets are sent authenticated but received packets
are accepted without veriﬁcation, and they
SHOULD
with an interface without a restart.

 allow changing the set of keys associated

SHOULD

6.  Packet Format

6.1.  MAC TLV

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type = 16   |    Length     |     MAC...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Fields:

Type

Set to 16 to indicate a MAC TLV.

Length

The length of the body, in octets, exclusive of the Type and Length ﬁelds. The length
depends on the MAC algorithm being used.

MAC

The body contains the MAC of the packet, computed as described in Section 4.1.

This TLV is allowed in the packet trailer (see
found in the packet body.

Section 4.2 of [RFC8966]

) and

MUST

 be ignored if it is

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

6.2.  PC TLV

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type = 17   |    Length     |             PC                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               |            Index...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Fields:

Type

Set to 17 to indicate a PC TLV.

Length

The length of the body, in octets, exclusive of the Type and Length ﬁelds.

PC

The Packet Counter (PC), a 32-bit (4-octet) unsigned integer that is increased with every
packet sent over this interface. A fresh index (as deﬁned in Section 3.1)
generated whenever the PC overﬂows.

MUST

 be

Index

The sender's Index, an opaque string of 0 to 32 octets.

Indices are limited to a size of 32 octets: a node
strictly larger than 32 octets, and a node
larger than 32 octets. Indices of length 0 are valid: if a node has reliable stable storage and the
packet counter never overﬂows, then only one index is necessary, and the value of length 0 is the
canonical choice.

 ignore a PC TLV with an index of length strictly

 send a TLV with an index of size

MUST NOT

MAY

6.3.  Challenge Request TLV

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type = 18   |    Length     |     Nonce...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Fields:

Type

Set to 18 to indicate a Challenge Request TLV.

Length

The length of the body, in octets, exclusive of the Type and Length ﬁelds.

Nonce

The nonce uniquely identifying the challenge, an opaque string of 0 to 192 octets.

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

Nonces are limited to a size of 192 octets: a node
nonce of size strictly larger than 192 octets, and a node
larger than 192 octets. Nonces of length 0 are valid: if a node has reliable stable storage, then it
may use a sequential counter for generating nonces that get encoded in the minimum number of
octets required; the value 0 is then encoded as the string of length 0.

 send a Challenge Request TLV with a
 ignore a nonce that is of size strictly

MUST NOT

MAY

6.4.  Challenge Reply TLV

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type = 19   |    Length     |     Nonce...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Fields:

Type

Set to 19 to indicate a Challenge Reply TLV.

Length

The length of the body, in octets, exclusive of the Type and Length ﬁelds.

Nonce

A copy of the nonce contained in the corresponding Challenge Request.

7.  Security Considerations

This document deﬁnes a mechanism that provides basic security properties for the Babel routing
protocol. The scope of this protocol is strictly limited: it only provides authentication (we assume
that routing information is not conﬁdential), it only supports symmetric keying, and it only
allows for the use of a small number of symmetric keys on every link. Deployments that need
more features, e.g., conﬁdentiality or asymmetric keying, should use a more feature-rich security
mechanism such as the one described in

.
[RFC8968]

This mechanism relies on two assumptions, as described in Section 1.2. First, it assumes that the
MAC being used is invulnerable to forgery (
HMAC-SHA256, which is mandatory to implement (Section 4.1), is believed to be safe against
practical attacks.

Section 1.1 of [RFC6039]

); at the time of writing,

Second, it assumes that indices and nonces are generated uniquely over the lifetime of a key used
for MAC computation (more precisely, indices must be unique for a given (key, source) pair, and
nonces must be unique for a given (key, source, destination) triple). This property can be satisﬁed
either by using a cryptographically secure random number generator to generate indices and
nonces that contain enough entropy (64-bit values are believed to be large enough for all
practical applications) or by using a reliably monotonic hardware clock. If uniqueness cannot be
guaranteed (e.g., because a hardware clock has been reset), then rekeying is necessary.

The expiry mechanism mandated in Section 4.4 is required to prevent an attacker from delaying
an authentic packet by an unbounded amount of time. If an attacker is able to delay the delivery
of a packet (e.g., because it is located at a Layer 2 switch), then the packet will be accepted as long

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

as the corresponding (Index, PC) pair is present at the receiver. If the attacker is able to cause the
(Index, PC) pair to persist for arbitrary amounts of time (e.g., by repeatedly causing failed
challenges), then it is able to delay the packet by arbitrary amounts of time, even after the sender
has left the network, which could allow it to redirect or blackhole traﬃc to destinations
previously advertised by the sender.

This protocol exposes large numbers of packets and their MACs to an attacker that is able to
capture packets; it is therefore vulnerable to brute-force attacks. Keys must be chosen in a
manner that makes them diﬃcult to guess. Ideally, they should have a length of 32 octets (both
for HMAC-SHA256 and BLAKE2s), and be chosen randomly. If, for some reason, it is necessary to
derive keys from a human-readable passphrase, it is recommended to use a key derivation
function that hampers dictionary attacks, such as PBKDF2
[RFC7914]
original passphrase itself should be kept on the host used to perform the key generation (e.g., an
administrator's secure laptop computer).

. In that case, only the derived keys should be communicated to the routers; the

[RFC8018]

[BCRYPT]

, bcrypt

, or scrypt

While it is probably not possible to be immune against denial of service (DoS) attacks in general,
this protocol includes a number of mechanisms designed to mitigate such attacks. In particular,
reception of a packet with no correct MAC creates no local Babel state (Section 4.3). Reception of
a replayed packet with correct MAC, on the other hand, causes a challenge to be sent; this is
mitigated somewhat by requiring that challenges be rate limited (Section 4.3.1.1).

Receiving a replayed packet with an obsolete index causes an entry to be created in the
neighbour table, which, at ﬁrst sight, makes the protocol susceptible to resource exhaustion
attacks (similarly to the familiar "TCP SYN Flooding" attack
computation includes the sender address (Section 4.1), and thus the amount of storage that an
attacker can force a node to consume is limited by the number of distinct source addresses used
with a single MAC key (see also
a link-local IPv6 address or a local IPv4 address).

, which mandates that the source address is

Section 4 of [RFC8966]

). However, the MAC

[RFC4987]

In order to make this kind of resource exhaustion attacks less eﬀective, implementations may
use a separate table of uncompleted challenges that is separate from the neighbour table used by
the core protocol (the data structures described in
 are conceptual, and
any data structure that yields the same result may be used). Implementers might also consider
using the fact that the nonces included in Challenge Requests and Replies can be fairly large (up
to 192 octets), which should in principle allow encoding the per-challenge state as a secure
"cookie" within the nonce itself; note, however, that any such scheme will need to prevent cookie
replay.

Section 3.2 of [RFC8966]

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has allocated the following values in the Babel TLV Types registry:

Type Name

Reference

16

MAC

RFC 8967

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

Type Name

Reference

PC

RFC 8967

Challenge Request

RFC 8967

Challenge Reply

RFC 8967

17

18

19

Table 1

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2104]

[RFC2119]

[RFC6234]

[RFC7693]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8966]

Krawczyk, H., Bellare, M., and R. Canetti "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message
Authentication" RFC 2104 DOI 10.17487/RFC2104
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2104>

, February 1997,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. and T. Hansen "US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and SHA-
based HMAC and HKDF)" RFC 6234 DOI 10.17487/RFC6234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6234>

, May 2011,

,

,

.

,

<https://

,
Saarinen, M-J., Ed. and J-P. Aumasson "The BLAKE2 Cryptographic Hash and
,
Message Authentication Code (MAC)" RFC 7693 DOI 10.17487/RFC7693
November 2015,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7693>

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Chroboczek, J. and D. Schinazi "The Babel Routing Protocol" RFC 8966 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8966>
10.17487/RFC8966

, January 2021,

,

,

,

9.2.  Informational References

[BCRYPT]

Niels, P. and D. Mazières "A Future-Adaptable Password Scheme" Proceedings
,
of the FREENIX Track: 1999 USENIX Annual Technical Conference
, June 1999.

,

[RFC4086]

[RFC4987]

Eastlake 3rd, D., Schiller, J., and S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, June 2005,

<https://

,

,

,

,

.

,
Eddy, W. "TCP SYN Flooding Attacks and Common Mitigations" RFC 4987 DOI
10.17487/RFC4987

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4987>

, August 2007,

,

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

[RFC6039]

[RFC7298]

[RFC7914]

[RFC8018]

[RFC8968]

Manral, V., Bhatia, M., Jaeggli, J., and R. White "Issues with Existing
Cryptographic Protection Methods for Routing Protocols" RFC 6039 DOI
10.17487/RFC6039

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6039>

, October 2010,

,

,

,

.

,

Ovsienko, D. "Babel Hashed Message Authentication Code (HMAC)
,
,
Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 7298 DOI 10.17487/RFC7298
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7298>

, July 2014,

Percival, C. and S. Josefsson "The scrypt Password-Based Key Derivation
Function" RFC 7914 DOI 10.17487/RFC7914
editor.org/info/rfc7914>

, August 2016,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

,

,

Moriarty, K., Ed., Kaliski, B., and A. Rusch "PKCS #5: Password-Based
Cryptography Speciﬁcation Version 2.1" RFC 8018 DOI 10.17487/RFC8018
January 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8018>

,

.

,

,

,

Décimo, A., Schinazi, D., and J. Chroboczek "Babel Routing Protocol over
,
Datagram Transport Layer Security" RFC 8968 DOI 10.17487/RFC8968
2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8968>

,

, January

Acknowledgments

The protocol described in this document is based on the original HMAC protocol deﬁned by
Ovsienko [RFC7298]
Markus Stenberg
index to avoid replay was suggested by
Antonin Décimo Donald Eastlake Toke Høiland-Jørgensen Florian Horn Benjamin Kaduk Dave
Taht

David Schinazi
. The authors are also indebted to
,
,

. The use of a pseudo-header was suggested by

Martin Vigoureux
.

. The use of an

, and

,

,

,

Denis

Authors' Addresses

Clara Dô
IRIF, University of Paris-Diderot
75205 Paris CEDEX 13
France
Email:

 clarado_perso@yahoo.fr

Weronika Kolodziejak
IRIF, University of Paris-Diderot
75205 Paris CEDEX 13
France
Email:

 weronika.kolodziejak@gmail.com

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8967

MAC Authentication for Babel

January 2021

Juliusz Chroboczek
IRIF, University of Paris-Diderot
Case 7014
75205 Paris CEDEX 13
France
Email:

 jch@irif.fr

Dô, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

