Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8706
5306
Standards Track
February 2020
2070-1721
L. Ginsberg
Cisco Systems, Inc.

P. Wells
Cisco Systems, Inc.

RFC 8706
Restart Signaling for IS-IS

Abstract

This document describes a mechanism for a restarting router to signal to its neighbors that it is
restarting, allowing them to reestablish their adjacencies without cycling through the DOWN
state while still correctly initiating database synchronization.

This document additionally describes a mechanism for a router to signal its neighbors that it is
preparing to initiate a restart while maintaining forwarding-plane state. This allows the
neighbors to maintain their adjacencies until the router has restarted but also allows the
neighbors to bring the adjacencies down in the event of other topology changes.

This document additionally describes a mechanism for a restarting router to determine when it
has achieved Link State Protocol Data Unit (LSP) database synchronization with its neighbors
and a mechanism to optimize LSP database synchronization while minimizing transient routing
disruption when a router starts.

This document obsoletes RFC 5306.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8706

.

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Overview

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Requirements Language

3.  Approach

3.1.  Timers

3.2.  Restart TLV

3.2.1.  Use of RR and RA Bits

3.2.2.  Use of the SA Bit

3.2.3.  Use of PR and PA Bits

3.3.  Adjacency (Re)Acquisition

3.3.1.  Adjacency Reacquisition during Restart

3.3.2.  Adjacency Acquisition during Start

3.3.3.  Multiple Levels

3.4.  Database Synchronization

3.4.1.  LSP Generation and Flooding and SPF Computation

4.  State Tables

4.1.  Running Router

4.2.  Restarting Router

4.3.  Starting Router

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  Manageability Considerations

8.  Normative References

Appendix A.  Summary of Changes from RFC 5306

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

1.  Overview

 is
The Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS) routing protocol
a link state intra-domain routing protocol. Normally, when an IS-IS router is restarted, temporary
disruption of routing occurs due to events in both the restarting router and the neighbors of the
restarting router.

[RFC1195] [ISO10589]

The router that has been restarted computes its own routes before achieving database
synchronization with its neighbors. The results of this computation are likely to be non-
convergent with the routes computed by other routers in the area/domain.

Neighbors of the restarting router detect the restart event and cycle their adjacencies with the
restarting router through the DOWN state. The cycling of the adjacency state causes the
neighbors to regenerate their LSPs describing the adjacency concerned. This in turn causes a
temporary disruption of routes passing through the restarting router.

In certain scenarios, the temporary disruption of the routes is highly undesirable. This document
describes mechanisms to avoid or minimize the disruption due to both of these causes.

When an adjacency is reinitialized as a result of a neighbor restarting, a router does three things:

1.

It causes its own LSP(s) to be regenerated, thus triggering Shortest Path First (SPF) runs
throughout the area (or in the case of Level 2, throughout the domain).

2.

It sets SRMﬂags on its own LSP database on the adjacency concerned.

3.

In the case of a Point-to-Point link, it transmits a complete set of Complete Sequence Number
PDUs (CSNPs), over the adjacency.

In the case of a restarting router process, the ﬁrst of these is highly undesirable, but the second is
essential in order to ensure synchronization of the LSP database.

The third action above minimizes the number of LSPs that must be exchanged and, if made
reliable, provides a means of determining when the LSP databases of the neighboring routers
have been synchronized. This is desirable whether or not the router is being restarted (so that
the overload bit can be cleared in the router's own LSP, for example).

This document describes a mechanism for a restarting router to signal to its neighbors that it is
restarting. The mechanism further allows the neighbors to reestablish their adjacencies with the
restarting router without cycling through the DOWN state while still correctly initiating database
synchronization.

This document additionally describes a mechanism for a restarting router to determine when it
has achieved LSP database synchronization with its neighbors and a mechanism to optimize LSP
database synchronization and minimize transient routing disruption when a router starts.

It is assumed that the three-way handshake

[RFC5303]

 is being used on Point-to-Point circuits.

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

If the control and forwarding functions in a router can be maintained independently, it is
possible for the forwarding function state to be maintained across a resumption of control
function operations. This functionality is assumed when the terms "restart/restarting" are used in
this document.

The terms "start/starting" are used to refer to a router in which the control function has either
commenced operations for the ﬁrst time or has resumed operations, but the forwarding
functions have not been maintained in a prior state.

The terms "(re)start/(re)starting" are used when the text is applicable to both a "starting" and a
"restarting" router.

The terms "normal IIH" or "IIH normal" refer to IS-IS Hellos (IIHs) in which the Restart TLV
(deﬁned later in this document) has no ﬂags set.

2.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Approach

3.1.  Timers

Three additional timers (T1, T2, and T3) are required to support the mechanisms deﬁned in this
document. Timers T1 and T2 are used both by a restarting router and a starting router. Timer T3
is used only by a restarting router.

NOTE: These timers are NOT applicable to a router that is preparing to do a planned restart.

An instance of the timer T1 is maintained per interface and indicates the time after which an
unacknowledged (re)start attempt will be repeated. A typical value is 3 seconds.

An instance of the timer T2 is maintained for each LSP database (LSPDB) present in the system.
For example, for a Level 1/2 system, there will be an instance of the timer T2 for Level 1 and an
instance for Level 2. This is the maximum time that the system will wait for LSPDB
synchronization. A typical value is 60 seconds.

A single instance of the timer T3 is maintained for the entire system. It indicates the time after
which the router will declare that it has failed to achieve database synchronization (by setting
the overload bit in its own LSP). This is initialized to 65535 seconds but is set to the minimum of

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

the remaining times of received IIHs containing a Restart TLV with the Restart Acknowledgement
(RA) set and an indication that the neighbor has an adjacency in the UP state to the restarting
router. (See item a in Section 3.2.1.)

3.2.  Restart TLV

A new TLV is deﬁned to be included in IIH PDUs. The TLV includes ﬂags that are used to convey
information during a (re)start. The absence of this TLV indicates that the sender supports none of
the functionality deﬁned in this document. Therefore, if a router supports any of the
functionality deﬁned in this document it

 include this TLV in all transmitted IIHs.

MUST

Type:

211

Length:

Number of octets in the Value ﬁeld (1 to (3 + ID Length))

Value:

                                      No. of octets
        +-----------------------+
        |   Flags               |     1
        +-----------------------+
        | Remaining Time        |     2
        +-----------------------+
        | Restarting Neighbor ID|     ID Length
        +-----------------------+

Flags (1 octet)

      0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7
     +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
     |Reserved|PA|PR|SA|RA|RR|
     +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+

RR -
RA -
SA -
PR -
PA -

Restart Request
Restart Acknowledgement
Suppress adjacency advertisement
Restart is planned
Planned restart acknowledgement

Remaining Time (2 octets)

Remaining Holding Time (in seconds).

Required when the RA, PR, or PA bit is set. Otherwise, this ﬁeld
when sent and

 be ignored when received.

MUST

SHOULD

 be omitted

Restarting Neighbor System ID (ID Length octets)

The System ID of the neighbor to which an RA/PA refers.

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

Required when the RA or PA bit is set. Otherwise, this ﬁeld
sent and

 be ignored when received.

MUST

SHOULD

 be omitted when

Note: Very early draft versions of the restart functionality did not include the
Restarting Neighbor System ID in the TLV. RFC 5306 allowed for the possibility of
interoperating with legacy implementations by stating that a router that is expecting
an RA on a LAN circuit should assume that the acknowledgement is directed at the
local system if the TLV is received with RA set and Restarting Neighbor System ID is
not present. It is an implementation choice whether to continue to accept (on a LAN)
a TLV with RA set and Restarting Neighbor System ID absent. Note that the omission
of the Restarting Neighbor System ID only introduces ambiguity in the case where
there are multiple systems on a LAN simultaneously performing restart.

The RR and SA ﬂags may both be set in the TLV under the conditions described in Section 3.3.2.
All other combinations where multiple ﬂags are set are invalid and
 be transmitted.
Received TLVs that have invalid ﬂag combinations set

 be ignored.

MUST NOT

MUST

3.2.1.  Use of RR and RA Bits

The RR bit is used by a (re)starting router to signal to its neighbors that a (re)start is in progress,
 be maintained even under circumstances when the normal
that an existing adjacency
operation of the adjacency state machine would require the adjacency to be reinitialized, to
request a set of CSNPs, and to request setting of the SRMﬂags.

SHOULD

The RA bit is sent by the neighbor of a (re)starting router to acknowledge the receipt of a Restart
TLV with the RR bit set.

When the neighbor of a (re)starting router receives an IIH with the Restart TLV having the RR bit
set, if there exists on this interface an adjacency in the UP state with the same System ID and, in
the case of a LAN circuit, with the same source LAN address, then irrespective of the other
contents of the "Intermediate System Neighbors" option (LAN circuits) or the "Point-to-Point
Three-Way Adjacency" option (Point-to-Point circuits):

a.

the state of the adjacency is not changed. If this is the ﬁrst IIH with the RR bit set that this
system has received associated with this adjacency, then the adjacency is marked as being in
"Restart mode" and the adjacency Holding Time is refreshed -- otherwise, the Holding Time is
not refreshed. The Remaining Time transmitted according to (b) below
actual time after which the adjacency will now expire. Receipt of an IIH with the RR bit reset
will clear the "Restart mode" state. This procedure allows the restarting router to cause the
neighbor to maintain the adjacency long enough for restart to successfully complete while
also preventing repetitive restarts from maintaining an adjacency indeﬁnitely. Whether or
not an adjacency is marked as being in "Restart mode" has no eﬀect on adjacency state
transitions.

 reﬂect the

MUST

b.

immediately (i.e., without waiting for any currently running timer interval to expire but
with a small random delay of a few tens of milliseconds on LANs to avoid "storms") transmit
over the corresponding interface an IIH including the Restart TLV with the RR bit clear and
the RA bit set, in the case of Point-to-Point adjacencies having updated the "Point-to-Point

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

MUST

Three-Way Adjacency" option to reﬂect any new values received from the (re)starting router.
(This allows a restarting router to quickly acquire the correct information to place in its
hellos.) The Remaining Time
timer on this adjacency is due to expire. If the corresponding interface is a LAN interface,
 be set to the System ID of the router from
then the Restarting Neighbor System ID
SHOULD
which the IIH with the RR bit set was received. This is required to correctly associate the
acknowledgement and Holding Time in the case where multiple systems on a LAN restart at
 be transmitted before any LSPs or SNPs are
approximately the same time. This IIH
transmitted as a result of the receipt of the original IIH.

 be set to the current time (in seconds) before the holding

SHOULD

c.

if the corresponding interface is a Point-to-Point interface, or if the receiving router has the
highest LnRouterPriority (with the highest source Media Access Control (MAC) address
breaking ties) among those routers to which the receiving router has an adjacency in the UP
state on this interface whose IIHs contain the Restart TLV, excluding adjacencies to all
routers that are considered in "Restart mode" (note the actual Designated Intermediate
System (DIS) is NOT changed by this process), initiate the transmission over the
corresponding interface of a complete set of CSNPs, and set SRMﬂags on the corresponding
interface for all LSPs in the local LSP database.

Otherwise (i.e., if there was no adjacency in the UP state to the System ID in question), process
the IIH as normal by reinitializing the adjacency and setting the RA bit in the returned IIH.

3.2.2.  Use of the SA Bit

The SA bit is used by a starting router to request that its neighbor suppress advertisement of the
adjacency to the starting router in the neighbor's LSPs.

A router that is starting has no maintained forwarding function state. This may or may not be the
ﬁrst time the router has started. If this is not the ﬁrst time the router has started, copies of LSPs
generated by this router in its previous incarnation may exist in the LSP databases of other
routers in the network. These copies are likely to appear "newer" than LSPs initially generated by
the starting router due to the reinitialization of LSP fragment sequence numbers by the starting
router. This may cause temporary blackholes to occur until the normal operation of the update
process causes the starting router to regenerate and ﬂood copies of its own LSPs with higher
sequence numbers. The temporary blackholes can be avoided if the starting router's neighbors
suppress advertising an adjacency to the starting router until the starting router has been able to
propagate newer versions of LSPs generated by previous incarnations.

When a router receives an IIH with the Restart TLV having the SA bit set, if there exists on this
interface an adjacency in the UP state with the same System ID and, in the case of a LAN circuit,
with the same source LAN address, then the router
adjacency to the neighbor in its own LSPs. Until an IIH with the SA bit clear has been received,
 continue to be suppressed. If the adjacency transitions to the
the neighbor advertisement
 be advertised until an IIH with the SA bit clear has been
UP state, the new adjacency
received.

 suppress advertisement of the

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

Note that a router that suppresses advertisement of an adjacency
when performing its SPF calculation. In particular, if an implementation follows the example
guidelines presented in
adjacency database", the suppressed adjacency

, Annex C.2.5, Step 0:b) "pre-load TENT with the local

 be loaded into TENT.

 use this adjacency

[ISO10589]

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

3.2.3.  Use of PR and PA Bits

The PR bit is used by a router that is planning to initiate a restart to signal to its neighbors that it
 set the Remaining Time to a
will be restarting. The router sending an IIH with PR bit set
value greater than the expected control-plane restart time. The PR bit
 remain set in IIHs
until the restart is initiated.

SHOULD

SHOULD

The PA bit is sent by the neighbor of a router planning to restart to acknowledge receipt of a
Restart TLV with the PR bit set.

When the neighbor of a router planning a restart receives an IIH with the Restart TLV having the
PR bit set, if there exists on this interface an adjacency in the UP state with the same System ID
and, in the case of a LAN circuit, with the same source LAN address, then:

a.

b.

if this is the ﬁrst IIH with the PR bit set that this system has received associated with this
adjacency, then the adjacency is marked as being in Planned Restart State and the adjacency
Holding Time is refreshed -- otherwise, the Holding Time is not refreshed. The Holding Time
 be set to the Remaining Time speciﬁed in the received IIH with PR set. The
SHOULD
Remaining Time transmitted according to (b) below
the adjacency will now expire. Receipt of an IIH with the PR bit reset will clear the Planned
Restart State and cause the receiving router to set the adjacency Holding Time to the locally
conﬁgured value. This procedure allows the router planning a restart to cause the neighbor
to maintain the adjacency long enough for restart to successfully complete. Whether or not
an adjacency is marked as being in Planned Restart State has no eﬀect on adjacency state
transitions.

 reﬂect the actual time after which

MUST

immediately (i.e., without waiting for any currently running timer interval to expire, but
with a small random delay of a few tens of milliseconds on LANs to avoid "storms") transmit
over the corresponding interface an IIH including the Restart TLV with the PR bit clear and
the PA bit set. The Remaining Time
 be set to the current time (in seconds) before the
holding timer on this adjacency is due to expire. If the corresponding interface is a LAN
 be set to the System ID of the
interface, then the Restarting Neighbor System ID
router from which the IIH with the PR bit set was received. This is required to correctly
associate the acknowledgement and Holding Time in the case where multiple systems on a
LAN are planning a restart at approximately the same time.

SHOULD

MUST

NOTE: Receipt of an IIH with PA bit set indicates to the router planning a restart that the
neighbor is aware of the planned restart and -- in the absence of topology changes as described
below -- will maintain the adjacency for the Remaining Time included in the IIH with PA set.

By deﬁnition, a restarting router maintains forwarding state across the control-plane restart (see
Section 2). But while a control-plane restart is in progress, it is expected that the restarting router
will be unable to respond to topology changes. It is therefore useful to signal a planned restart so

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

that the neighbors of the restarting router can determine whether it is safe to maintain the
adjacency if other topology changes occur prior to the completion of the restart. Signaling a
planned restart in the absence of maintained forwarding-plane state is likely to lead to
signiﬁcant traﬃc loss and

MUST NOT

 be done.

Neighbors of the router that have signaled planned restart
 maintain the adjacency in a
Planned Restart State until it receives an IIH with the RR bit set, it receives an IIH with both PR
and RR bits clear, or the adjacency Holding Time expires -- whichever occurs ﬁrst. Neighbors that
choose not to follow the recommended behavior need to consider the impact on traﬃc delivery
of not using the restarting router for forwarding traﬃc during the restart period.

SHOULD

While the adjacency is in Planned Restart State, some or all of the following actions
taken:

MAY

 be

a.

b.

If additional topology changes occur, the adjacency that is in Planned Restart State
 be
brought down even though the Holding Time has not yet expired. Given that the neighbor
that has signaled a planned restart is not expected to update its forwarding plane in
response to signaling of the topology changes (since it is restarting) traﬃc that transits that
node is at risk of being improperly forwarded. On a LAN circuit, if the router in Planned
Restart State is the DIS at any supported level, the adjacency or adjacencies
brought down whenever any LSP update is either generated or received so as to trigger a
new DIS election. Failure to do so will compromise the reliability of the update process on
that circuit. What other criteria are used to determine what topology changes will trigger
bringing the adjacency down is a local implementation decision.

SHOULD

MAY

 be

If a Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)
a planned restart is in the UP state and subsequently goes down, the event
since it is possible this is an expected side eﬀect of the restart. Use of the Control-Plane
Independent state as signaled in BFD control packets
to ignore a BFD Session DOWN event.

[RFC5880]

SHOULD

MAY

 Session to the neighbor that signals

 be considered in the decision

 be ignored

c.

On a Point-to-Point circuit, transmission of LSPs, CSNPs, and Partial Sequence Number PDU
 be suppressed. It is expected that the PDUs will not be received.
(PSNPs)

MAY

Use of the PR bit provides a means to safely support restart periods that are signiﬁcantly longer
than standard Holding Times.

3.3.  Adjacency (Re)Acquisition

Adjacency (re)acquisition is the ﬁrst step in (re)initialization. Restarting and starting routers will
make use of the RR bit in the Restart TLV, though each will use it at diﬀerent stages of the
(re)start procedure.

3.3.1.  Adjacency Reacquisition during Restart

The restarting router explicitly notiﬁes its neighbor that the adjacency is being reacquired and,
hence, that it
 reinitialize the adjacency. This is achieved by setting the RR bit in the
Restart TLV. When the neighbor of a restarting router receives an IIH with the Restart TLV

SHOULD NOT

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

having the RR bit set, if there exists on this interface an adjacency in the UP state with the same
System ID and, in the case of a LAN circuit, with the same source LAN address, then the
procedures described in Section 3.2.1 are followed.

A router that does not support the restart capability will ignore the Restart TLV and reinitialize
the adjacency as normal, returning an IIH without the Restart TLV.

On restarting, a router initializes the timer T3, starts the timer T2 for each LSPDB, and for each
interface (and in the case of a LAN circuit, for each level) starts the timer T1 and transmits an IIH
containing the Restart TLV with the RR bit set.

On a Point-to-Point circuit, the restarting router
"Init", because the receipt of the acknowledging IIH (with RA set)
enter the UP state immediately.

SHOULD

 set the "Adjacency Three-Way State" to

MUST

 cause the adjacency to

On a LAN circuit, the LAN-ID assigned to the circuit
 be the same as that used prior to the
restart. In particular, for any circuits for which the restarting router was previously DIS, the use
of a diﬀerent LAN-ID would necessitate the generation of a new set of pseudonode LSPs and
corresponding changes in all the LSPs referencing them from other routers on the LAN. By
preserving the LAN-ID across the restart, this churn can be prevented. To enable a restarting
router to learn the LAN-ID used prior to restart, the LAN-ID speciﬁed in an IIH with RR set
be ignored.

SHOULD

MUST

Transmission of "normal IIHs" is inhibited until the conditions described below are met (in order
to avoid causing an unnecessary adjacency initialization). Upon expiry of the timer T1, it is
restarted and the IIH is retransmitted as above.

When a restarting router receives an IIH a local adjacency is established as usual, and if the IIH
contains a Restart TLV with the RA bit set (and on LAN circuits with a Restart Neighbor System ID
that matches that of the local system), the receipt of the acknowledgement over that interface is
noted. When the RA bit is set and the state of the remote adjacency is UP, then the timer T3 is set
to the minimum of its current value and the value of the Remaining Time ﬁeld in the received
IIH.

On a Point-to-Point link, receipt of an IIH not containing the Restart TLV is also treated as an
acknowledgement, since it indicates that the neighbor is not restart capable. However, since no
CSNP is guaranteed to be received over this interface, the timer T1 is canceled immediately
without waiting for a complete set of CSNPs. Synchronization may therefore be deemed complete
even though there are some LSPs that are held (only) by this neighbor (see Section 3.4). In this
case, we also want to be certain that the neighbor will reinitialize the adjacency in order to
guarantee that the SRMﬂags have been set on its database, thus ensuring eventual LSPDB
synchronization. This is guaranteed to happen except in the case where the Adjacency Three-
Way State in the received IIH is UP and the Neighbor Extended Local Circuit ID matches the
Extended Local Circuit ID assigned by the restarting router. In this case, the restarting router
MUST
and sending a normal IIH.

 force the adjacency to reinitialize by setting the local Adjacency Three-Way State to DOWN

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

In the case of a LAN interface, receipt of an IIH not containing the Restart TLV is unremarkable
since synchronization can still occur so long as at least one of the non-restarting neighboring
routers on the LAN supports restart. Therefore, T1 continues to run in this case. If none of the
neighbors on the LAN are restart capable, T1 will eventually expire after the locally deﬁned
number of retries.

In the case of a Point-to-Point circuit, the LocalCircuitID and Extended Local Circuit ID
information contained in the IIH can be used immediately to generate an IIH containing the
correct three-way handshake information. The presence of Neighbor Extended Local Circuit ID
information that does not match the value currently in use by the local system is ignored (since
the IIH may have been transmitted before the neighbor had received the new value from the
restarting router), but the adjacency remains in the initializing state until the correct
information is received.

In the case of a LAN circuit, the source neighbor information (e.g., SNPAAddress) is recorded and
used for adjacency establishment and maintenance as normal.

When BOTH a complete set of CSNPs (for each active level, in the case of a Point-to-Point circuit)
and an acknowledgement have been received over the interface, the timer T1 is canceled.

Once the timer T1 has been canceled, subsequent IIHs are transmitted according to the normal
algorithms but including the Restart TLV with both RR and RA clear.

If a LAN contains a mixture of systems, only some of which support the new algorithm, database
synchronization is still guaranteed, but the "old" systems will have reinitialized their adjacencies.

If an interface is active but does not have any neighboring router reachable over that interface,
the timer T1 would never be canceled, and according to Section 3.4.1.1, the SPF would never be
run. Therefore, timer T1 is canceled after some predetermined number of expirations (which
MAY

 be 1).

3.3.2.  Adjacency Acquisition during Start

The starting router wants to ensure that in the event that a neighboring router has an adjacency
to the starting router in the UP state (from a previous incarnation of the starting router), this
adjacency is reinitialized. The starting router also wants neighboring routers to suppress
advertisement of an adjacency to the starting router until LSP database synchronization is
achieved. This is achieved by sending IIHs with the RR bit clear and the SA bit set in the Restart
TLV. The RR bit remains clear and the SA bit remains set in subsequent transmissions of IIHs
until the adjacency has reached the UP state and the initial T1 timer interval (see below) has
expired.

Receipt of an IIH with the RR bit clear will result in the neighboring router utilizing normal
operation of the adjacency state machine. This will ensure that any old adjacency on the
neighboring router will be reinitialized.

Upon receipt of an IIH with the SA bit set, the behavior described in Section 3.2.2 is followed.

Upon starting, a router starts timer T2 for each LSPDB.

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

For each interface (and in the case of a LAN circuit, for each level), when an adjacency reaches
the UP state, the starting router starts a timer T1 and transmits an IIH containing the restart TLV
with the RR bit clear and SA bit set. Upon expiry of the timer T1, it is restarted and the IIH is
retransmitted with both RR and SA bits set (only the RR bit has changed state from earlier IIHs).

Upon receipt of an IIH with the RR bit set (regardless of whether or not the SA bit is set), the
behavior described in Section 3.2.1 is followed.

When an IIH is received by the starting router and the IIH contains a Restart TLV with the RA bit
set (and on LAN circuits with a Restart Neighbor System ID that matches that of the local system),
the receipt of the acknowledgement over that interface is noted.

On a Point-to-Point link, receipt of an IIH not containing the Restart TLV is also treated as an
acknowledgement, since it indicates that the neighbor is not restart capable. Since the neighbor
will have reinitialized the adjacency, this guarantees that SRMﬂags have been set on its database,
thus ensuring eventual LSPDB synchronization. However, since no CSNP is guaranteed to be
received over this interface, the timer T1 is canceled immediately without waiting for a complete
set of CSNPs. Synchronization may therefore be deemed complete even though there are some
LSPs that are held (only) by this neighbor (see Section 3.4).

In the case of a LAN interface, receipt of an IIH not containing the Restart TLV is unremarkable
since synchronization can still occur so long as at least one of the non-restarting neighboring
routers on the LAN supports restart. Therefore, T1 continues to run in this case. If none of the
neighbors on the LAN are restart capable, T1 will eventually expire after the locally deﬁned
number of retries. The usual operation of the update process will ensure that synchronization is
eventually achieved.

When BOTH a complete set of CSNPs (for each active level, in the case of a Point-to-Point circuit)
and an acknowledgement have been received over the interface, the timer T1 is canceled.
Subsequent IIHs sent by the starting router have the RR and RA bits clear and the SA bit set in the
Restart TLV.

Timer T1 is canceled after some predetermined number of expirations (which

MAY

 be 1).

When the T2 timer(s) are canceled or expire, transmission of "normal IIHs" will begin.

3.3.3.  Multiple Levels

A router that is operating as both a Level 1 and a Level 2 router on a particular interface
perform the above operations for each level.

MUST

On a LAN interface, it
CSNP synchronizations independently for each level.

MUST

 send and receive both Level 1 and Level 2 IIHs and perform the

On a Point-to-Point interface, only a single IIH (indicating support for both levels) is required, but
it

 perform the CSNP synchronizations independently for each level.

MUST

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

3.4.  Database Synchronization

When a router is started or restarted, it can expect to receive a complete set of CSNPs over each
interface. The arrival of the CSNP(s) is now guaranteed, since an IIH with the RR bit set will be
retransmitted until the CSNP(s) are correctly received.

The CSNPs describe the set of LSPs that are currently held by each neighbor. Synchronization
will be complete when all these LSPs have been received.

When (re)starting, a router starts an instance of timer T2 for each LSPDB, as described in Section
3.3.1 or Section 3.3.2. In addition to normal processing of the CSNPs, the set of LSPIDs contained
in the ﬁrst complete set of CSNPs received over each interface is recorded, together with their
remaining lifetime. In the case of a LAN interface, a complete set of CSNPs
received from neighbors that are not restarting. If there are multiple interfaces on the
(re)starting router, the recorded set of LSPIDs is the union of those received over each interface.
LSPs with a remaining lifetime of zero are NOT so recorded.

 consist of CSNPs

MUST

As LSPs are received (by the normal operation of the update process) over any interface, the
corresponding LSPID entry is removed (it is also removed if an LSP arrives before the CSNP
containing the reference). When an LSPID has been held in the list for its indicated remaining
lifetime, it is removed from the list. When the list of LSPIDs is empty and the timer T1 has been
canceled for all the interfaces that have an adjacency at this level, the timer T2 is canceled.

At this point, the local database is guaranteed to contain all the LSP(s) (either the same sequence
number or a more recent sequence number) that were present in the neighbors' databases at the
time of (re)starting. LSPs that arrived in a neighbor's database after the time of (re)starting may
or may not be present, but the normal operation of the update process will guarantee that they
will eventually be received. At this point, the local database is deemed to be "synchronized".

Since LSPs mentioned in the CSNP(s) with a zero remaining lifetime are not recorded and those
with a short remaining lifetime are deleted from the list when the lifetime expires, cancellation
of the timer T2 will not be prevented by waiting for an LSP that will never arrive.

3.4.1.  LSP Generation and Flooding and SPF Computation

The operation of a router starting, as opposed to restarting, is somewhat diﬀerent. These two
cases are dealt with separately below.

3.4.1.1.  Restarting

In order to avoid causing unnecessary routing churn in other routers, it is highly desirable that
the router's own LSPs generated by the restarting system are the same as those previously
present in the network (assuming no other changes have taken place). It is important therefore
not to regenerate and ﬂood the LSPs until all the adjacencies have been reestablished and any
information required for propagation into the local LSPs is fully available. Ideally, the
information is loaded into the LSPs in a deterministic way, such that the same information
occurs in the same place in the same LSP (and hence the LSPs are identical to their previous

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

versions). If this can be achieved, the new versions may not even cause SPF to be run in other
systems. However, provided the same information is included in the set of LSPs (albeit in a
diﬀerent order, and possibly diﬀerent LSPs), the result of running the SPF will be the same and
will not cause churn to the forwarding tables.

In the case of a restarting router, none of the router's own LSPs are transmitted, nor are the
router's own forwarding tables updated while the timer T3 is running.

Redistribution of inter-level information
to other nodes. Therefore, the Level-n non-pseudonode LSP(s)
 be ﬂooded until the
other level's T2 timer has expired and its SPF has been run. This ensures that any inter-level
information that is to be propagated can be included in the Level-n LSP(s).

 be regenerated before this router's LSP is ﬂooded

MUST NOT

MUST

During this period, if one of the router's own (including pseudonodes) LSPs is received, which the
local router does not currently have in its own database, it is NOT purged. Under normal
operation, such an LSP would be purged, since the LSP clearly should not be present in the global
LSP database. However, in the present circumstances, this would be highly undesirable, because
it could cause premature removal of a router's own LSP -- and hence churn in remote routers.
Even if the local system has one or more of the router's own LSPs (which it has generated but not
yet transmitted), it is still not valid to compare the received LSP against this set, since it may be
that as a result of propagation between Level 1 and Level 2 (or vice versa), a further router's own
LSP will need to be generated when the LSP databases have synchronized.

During this period, a restarting router
about the router's own LSPs
have been received, not on versions that have been generated (but not yet transmitted). This
restriction is necessary to prevent premature removal of an LSP from the global LSP database.

 send CSNPs as it normally would. Information
MUST

 be included, but if it is included, it

 be based on LSPs that

SHOULD

MAY

When the timer T2 expires or is canceled, indicating that synchronization for that level is
complete, the SPF for that level is run in order to derive any information that is required to be
propagated to another level, but the forwarding tables are not yet updated.

Once the other level's SPF has run and any inter-level propagation has been resolved, the router's
own LSPs can be generated and ﬂooded. Any own LSPs that were previously ignored, but that are
not part of the current set of own LSPs (including pseudonodes),
 then be purged. Note that
it is possible that a Designated Router change may have taken place and, consequently, the router
SHOULD
of its set of pseudonode LSPs.

 purge those pseudonode LSPs that it previously owned but that are now no longer part

MUST

When all the T2 timers have expired or been canceled, the timer T3 is canceled, and the local
forwarding tables are updated.

If the timer T3 expires before all the T2 timers have expired or been canceled, this indicates that
the synchronization process is taking longer than the minimum Holding Time of the neighbors.
The router's own LSP(s) for levels that have not yet completed their ﬁrst SPF computation are
then ﬂooded with the overload bit set to indicate that the router's LSPDB is not yet synchronized
 compute routes through this router). Normal operation of
(and therefore other routers
the update process resumes, and the local forwarding tables are updated. In order to prevent the

MUST NOT

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

neighbor's adjacencies from expiring, IIHs with the normal interface value for the Holding Time
are transmitted over all interfaces with neither RR nor RA set in the Restart TLV. This will cause
the neighbors to refresh their adjacencies. The router's own LSP(s) will continue to have the
overload bit set until timer T2 has expired or been canceled.

3.4.1.2.  Starting

In the case of a starting router, as soon as each adjacency is established, and before any CSNP
exchanges, the router's own zeroth LSP is transmitted with the overload bit set. This prevents
other routers from computing routes through the router until it has reliably acquired the
complete set of LSPs. The overload bit remains set in subsequent transmissions of the zeroth LSP
(such as will occur if a previous copy of the router's own zeroth LSP is still present in the
network) while any timer T2 is running.

When all the T2 timers have been canceled, the router's own LSP(s)
overload bit clear (assuming the router is not in fact overloaded, and there is no other reason,
such as incomplete BGP convergence, to keep the overload bit set) and ﬂooded as normal.

 be regenerated with the

MAY

Other LSPs owned by this router (including pseudonodes) are generated and ﬂooded as normal,
irrespective of the timer T2. The SPF is also run as normal and the Routing Information Base
(RIB) and Forwarding Information Base (FIB) updated as routes become available.

To avoid the possible formation of temporary blackholes, the starting router sets the SA bit in the
Restart TLV (as described in Section 3.3.2) in all IIHs that it sends.

When all T2 timers have been canceled, the starting router
clear.

MUST

 transmit IIHs with the SA bit

4.  State Tables

This section presents state tables that summarize the behaviors described in this document.
Other behaviors, in particular adjacency state transitions and LSP database update operations,
are NOT included in the state tables except where this document modiﬁes the behaviors
described in

[ISO10589]

[RFC5303]

 and

.

The states named in the columns of the tables below are a mixture of states that are speciﬁc to a
single adjacency (ADJ suppressed, ADJ Seen RA, ADJ Seen CSNP) and states that are indicative of
the state of the protocol instance (Running, Restarting, Starting, SPF Wait).

Three state tables are presented from the point of view of a running router, a restarting router,
and a starting router.

4.1.  Running Router

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

Event

RX PR

Running

ADJ suppressed

Set Planned Restart State
Update Holding Time
Send PA

RX PR clr and RR
clr

Clear Planned Restart State
Restore Holding Time to local
value

RX RR

Maintain ADJ State
Send RA
Set SRM, send CSNP (Note 1)
Update Holding Time,
set Restart Mode (Note 2)

RX RR clr

Clr Restart mode

RX SA

RX SA clr

Suppress IS neighbor TLV in
LSP (s)
Goto ADJ Suppressed

Unsuppress IS neighbor TLV in
LSP (s)
Goto Running

Table 1: Running Router

Note 1:
Note 2:

CSNPs are sent by routers in accordance with item c in Section 3.2.1
If Restart Mode clear

ADJ Seen
RA

ADJ Seen
CSNP

SPF Wait

4.2.  Restarting Router

Event

Restarting

Restart planned

Send PR

Planned restart
canceled

Send PR clr

RX PA

Proceed with planned
restart

Router restarts

Send IIH/RR
ADJ Init
Start T1, T2, T3

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

Event

Restarting

ADJ Seen
RA

ADJ Seen
CSNP

SPF Wait

RX RR

RX RA

Send RA

Adjust T3
Goto ADJ Seen RA

Cancel T1
Adjust T3

RX CSNP set

Goto ADJ Seen CSNP

Cancel T1

RX IIH w/o Restart
TLV

Cancel T1 (Point-to-
point only)

T1 expires

Send IIH/RR
Restart T1

Send IIH/RR
Restart T1

Send IIH/RR
Restart T1

T1 expires nth
time

T2 expires

T3 expires

LSP DB Sync

All SPF done

Send IIH/normal

Send IIH/
normal

Send IIH/
normal

Trigger SPF
Goto SPF Wait

Set overload bit
Flood local LSPs
Update fwd plane

Cancel T2 and T3
Trigger SPF
Goto SPF wait

Clear
overload bit
Update fwd
plane
Flood local
LSPs
Goto Running

Table 2: Restarting Router

4.3.  Starting Router

Event

Starting

ADJ Seen RA

ADJ Seen CSNP

Router starts

Send IIH/SA
Start T1 and T2

RX RR

Send RA

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

Event

RX RA

Starting

ADJ Seen RA

ADJ Seen CSNP

Goto ADJ Seen RA

Cancel T1

RX CSNP Set

Goto ADJ Seen CSNP

Cancel T1

RX IIH w no Restart
TLV

ADJ UP

Cancel T1 (Point-to-Point only)

Start T1
Send local LSPs with overload
bit set

T1 expires

Send IIH/RR and SA
Restart T1

Send IIH/RR and
SA
Restart T1

Send IIH/RR and
SA
Restart T1

T1 expires nth time

Send IIH/SA

Send IIH/SA

Send IIH/SA

T2 expires

LSP DB Sync

Clear overload bit
Send IIH normal
Goto Running

Cancel T2
Clear overload bit
Send IIH normal

Table 3: Starting Router

5.  IANA Considerations

This document deﬁnes the following IS-IS TLV that is listed in the "IS-IS TLV Codepoints" registry.

Type Description

IIH LSP

SNP

Purge

211

Restart TLV

y

n

n

n

Table 4

IANA has updated the entry in registry to point to this document.

6.  Security Considerations

Any new security issues raised by the procedures in this document depend upon the ability of an
attacker to inject a false but apparently valid IIH, the ease/diﬃculty of which has not been
altered.

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

If the RR bit is set in a false IIH, neighbors who receive such an IIH will continue to maintain an
existing adjacency in the UP state and may (re)send a complete set of CSNPs. While the latter
action is wasteful, neither action causes any disruption in correct protocol operation.

If the RA bit is set in a false IIH, a (re)starting router that receives such an IIH may falsely believe
that there is a neighbor on the corresponding interface that supports the procedures described in
this document. In the absence of receipt of a complete set of CSNPs on that interface, this could
delay the completion of (re)start procedures by requiring the timer T1 to time out the locally
deﬁned maximum number of retries. This behavior is the same as would occur on a LAN where
none of the (re)starting router's neighbors support the procedures in this document and is
covered in Sections 3.3.1 and 3.3.2.

If the SA bit is set in a false IIH, this could cause suppression of the advertisement of an IS
neighbor, which could either continue for an indeﬁnite period or occur intermittently with the
result being a possible loss of reachability to some destinations in the network and/or increased
frequency of LSP ﬂooding and SPF calculation.

If the PR bit is set in a false IIH, neighbors who receive such an IIH could modify the Holding
Time of an existing adjacency inappropriately. In the event of topology changes, the neighbor
might also choose to not ﬂood the topology updates and/or bring the adjacency down in the false
belief that the forwarding plane of the router identiﬁed as the source of the false IIH is not
currently processing announced topology changes. This would result in unnecessary forwarding
disruption.

If the PA bit is set in a false IIH, a router that receives such an IIH may falsely believe that the
neighbor on the corresponding interface supports the planned restart procedures deﬁned in this
document. If such a router is planning to restart, it might then proceed to initiate a restart in the
false expectation that the neighbor has updated its Holding Time as requested. This may result in
the neighbor bringing down the adjacency while the receiving router is restarting, causing
unnecessary disruption to forwarding.

The possibility of IS-IS PDU spooﬁng can be reduced by the use of authentication, as described in
[RFC1195]
described in

, and especially by the use of cryptographic authentication, as

[ISO10589]

[RFC5310]

[RFC5304]

 and

 and

.

7.  Manageability Considerations

These extensions that have been designed, developed, and deployed for many years do not have
any new impact on management and operation of the IS-IS protocol via this standardization
process.

8.  Normative References

[ISO10589]

,

ISO "Information technology -- Telecommunications and information exchange
between systems -- Intermediate System to Intermediate System intra-domain
routeing information exchange protocol for use in conjunction with the protocol

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

for providing the connectionless-mode network service (ISO 8473)" ISO/IEC
10589:2002, Second Edition

, November 2002.

,

[RFC1195]

[RFC2119]

[RFC5303]

[RFC5304]

[RFC5310]

[RFC5880]

[RFC8174]

,

Callon, R. "Use of OSI IS-IS for routing in TCP/IP and dual environments" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
1195 DOI 10.17487/RFC1195
,
rfc1195>

, December 1990,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Katz, D., Saluja, R., and D. Eastlake 3rd "Three-Way Handshake for IS-IS Point-to-
Point Adjacencies" RFC 5303 DOI 10.17487/RFC5303
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5303>

, October 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

.

Li, T. and R. Atkinson "IS-IS Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5304 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5304>
10.17487/RFC5304

, October 2008,

,

,

,

.

Bhatia, M., Manral, V., Li, T., Atkinson, R., White, R., and M. Fanto "IS-IS Generic
,
,
Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5310 DOI 10.17487/RFC5310
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5310>

,
, February 2009,

Katz, D. and D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)" RFC 5880 DOI
10.17487/RFC5880

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5880>

, June 2010,

.

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

Appendix A.  Summary of Changes from RFC 5306

This document extends RFC 5306 by introducing support for signaling the neighbors of a
restarting router that a planned restart is about to occur. This allows the neighbors to be aware
of the state of the restarting router so that appropriate action may be taken if other topology
changes occur while the planned restart is in progress. Since the forwarding plane of the
restarting router is maintained based upon the pre-restart state of the network, additional
topology changes introduce the possibility that traﬃc may be lost if paths via the restarting
router continue to be used while the restart is in progress.

In support of this new functionality, two new ﬂags have been introduced:

PR -

Restart is planned

PA -

Planned restart acknowledgement

No changes to the post-restart exchange between the restarting router and its neighbors have
been introduced.

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8706

Restart Signaling for IS-IS

February 2020

Acknowledgements

For RFC 5306, the authors acknowledged contributions made by
Schaefer Naiming Shen Nischal Sheth Russ White
,

, and

Rena Yang
.

,

,

Jeﬀ Parker Radia Perlman Mark

,

,

The authors of this updated document acknowledge the contribution of
RFC 5306.

Mike Shand

, coauthor of

Authors' Addresses

Les Ginsberg
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

 ginsberg@cisco.com

Paul Wells
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

 pauwells@cisco.com

Ginsberg & Wells

Standards Track

Page 22

