Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8759
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721
J. Sandford
British Broadcasting Corporation

RFC 8759
RTP Payload for Timed Text Markup Language
(TTML)

Abstract

This memo describes a Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) payload format for Timed Text
Markup Language (TTML), an XML-based timed text format from W3C. This payload format is
speci’¼ücally targeted at streaming work’¼éows using TTML.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8759

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identi’¼üed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in e’¼Ćect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpli’¼üed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpli’¼üed BSD License.

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March
2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and De’¼ünitions

3.  Media Format Description

3.1.  Relation to Other Text Payload Types

3.2.  TTML2

4.  Payload Format

4.1.  RTP Header Usage

4.2.  Payload Data

5.  Payload Content Restrictions

6.  Payload Processing Requirements

6.1.  TTML Processor Pro’¼üle

6.1.1.  Feature Extension Designation

6.1.2.  Processor Pro’¼üle Document

6.1.3.  Processor Pro’¼üle Signalling

7.  Payload Examples

8.  Fragmentation of TTML Documents

9.  Protection against Loss of Data

10. Congestion Control Considerations

11. Payload Format Parameters

11.1.  Clock Rate

11.2.  Session Description Protocol (SDP) Considerations

11.2.1.  Examples

12. IANA Considerations

13. Security Considerations

14. Normative References

15. Informative References

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

[TTML2]

 is a media type for describing timed text, such as

TTML (Timed Text Markup Language)
closed captions and subtitles in television work’¼éows or broadcasts, as XML. This document
speci’¼ües how TTML should be mapped into an RTP stream in streaming work’¼éows, including
(but not restricted to) those described in the television-broadcast-oriented European
Broadcasting Union Timed Text (EBU-TT) Part 3
not de’¼üne a media type for TTML but makes use of the existing application/ttml+xml media type
[TTML-MTPR]

 speci’¼ücation. This document does

[TECH3370]

.

2.  Conventions and De’¼ünitions

Unless otherwise stated, the term "document" refers to the TTML document being transmitted in
the payload of the RTP packet(s).

The term "word" refers to a data word aligned to a speci’¼üed number of bits in a computing sense
and not to linguistic words that might appear in the transported text.

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Media Format Description

3.1.  Relation to Other Text Payload Types

Prior payload types for text are not suited to the carriage of closed captions in television
work’¼éows. "RTP Payload for Text Conversation"
 is intended for low data rate
conversation with its own session management and minimal formatting capabilities. "De’¼ünition
of Events for Modem, Fax, and Text Telephony Signals"
control signalling of facsimile and other systems. "RTP Payload Format for 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP) Timed Text"
[RFC4396]
with much more restricted formatting capabilities than TTML. The lack of an existing format for
TTML or generic XML has necessitated the creation of this payload format.

 describes the carriage of a timed text format

 deals in large parts with the

[RFC4103]

[RFC4734]

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

3.2.  TTML2

TTML2 (Timed Text Markup Language, Version 2)
describing textual information with associated timing metadata. One of its primary use cases is
the description of subtitles and closed captions. A number of pro’¼üles exist that adapt TTML2 for
use in speci’¼üc contexts

. These include both ’¼üle-based and streaming work’¼éows.

 is an XML-based markup language for

[TTML-MTPR]

[TTML2]

4.  Payload Format

In addition to the required RTP headers, the payload contains a section for the TTML document
being transmitted (User Data Words) and a ’¼üeld for the length of that data. Each RTP payload
contains one or part of one TTML document.

A representation of the payload format for TTML is Figure 1.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|V=2|P|X| CC    |M|    PT       |        Sequence Number        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                           Timestamp                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|           Synchronization Source (SSRC) Identifier            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|           Reserved            |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       User Data Words...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: RTP Payload Format for TTML

4.1.  RTP Header Usage

RTP packet header ’¼üelds

SHALL

 be interpreted, as per

[RFC3550]

, with the following speci’¼ücs:

Marker Bit (M): 1 bit

The marker bit is set to "1" to indicate the last packet of a document. Otherwise, set to "0".
Note: The ’¼ürst packet might also be the last.

Timestamp: 32 bits

The RTP Timestamp encodes the epoch of the TTML document in User Data Words. Further
detail on its usage may be found in Section 6. The clock frequency used is dependent on
the application and is speci’¼üed in the media type rate parameter, as per Section 11.1.
Documents spread across multiple packets
consecutive Sequence Numbers. Sequential documents
Because packets do not represent any constant duration, the timestamp cannot be used to
directly infer packet loss.

 use the same timestamp but di’¼Ćerent

 use the same timestamp.

MUST NOT

MUST

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

Reserved: 16 bits

These bits are reserved for future use and

MUST

 be set to 0x0 and ignored upon reception.

Length: 16 bits

The length of User Data Words in bytes.

User Data Words: The length of User Data Words
’¼üeld

MUST

 match the value speci’¼üed in the Length

The User Data Words section contains the text of the whole document being transmitted or
a part of the document being transmitted. Documents using character encodings where
characters are not represented by a single byte
 be serialised in big-endian order,
a.k.a., network byte order. Where a document will not ’¼üt within the Path MTU, it may be
fragmented across multiple packets. Further detail on fragmentation may be found in
Section 8.

MUST

4.2.  Payload Data

TTML documents de’¼üne a series of changes to text over time. TTML documents carried in User
Data Words are encoded in accordance with one or more of the de’¼üned TTML pro’¼üles speci’¼üed
in the TTML registry
. These pro’¼üles specify the document structure used, systems
models, timing, and other considerations. TTML pro’¼üles may restrict the complexity of the
changes, and operational requirements may limit the maximum duration of TTML documents by
a deployment con’¼üguration. Both of these cases are out of scope of this document.

[TTML-MTPR]

Documents carried over RTP
used.

MUST

 conform to the following pro’¼üle, in addition to any others

5.  Payload Content Restrictions

This section de’¼ünes constraints on the content of TTML documents carried over RTP.

Multiple TTML subtitle streams

MUST NOT

 be interleaved in a single RTP stream.

The TTML document instance's root tt element in the http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml namespace
MUST
containing the value media.

 include a timeBase attribute in the http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml#parameter namespace

This is equivalent to the TTML2 content pro’¼üle de’¼ünition document in Figure 2.

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<profile xmlns="http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml#parameter"
    xmlns:ttm="http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml#metadata"
    xmlns:tt="http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml"
    type="content"
    designator="urn:ietf:rfc:8759#content"
    combine="mostRestrictive">
    <features xml:base="http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml/feature/">
        <tt:metadata>
            <ttm:desc>
                This document is a minimal TTML2 content profile
                definition document intended to express the
                minimal requirements to apply when carrying TTML
                over RTP.
            </ttm:desc>
        </tt:metadata>
        <feature value="required">#timeBase-media</feature>
        <feature value="prohibited">#timeBase-smpte</feature>
        <feature value="prohibited">#timeBase-clock</feature>
    </features>
</profile>

Figure 2: TTML2 Content Pro’¼üle De’¼ünition for Documents Carried over RTP

6.  Payload Processing Requirements

This section de’¼ünes constraints on the processing of the TTML documents carried over RTP.

If a TTML document is assessed to be invalid, then it
documents, i.e., those of zero length. When processing a valid document, the following
requirements apply.

 be discarded. This includes empty

MUST

 be set to the RTP Timestamp in the
Each TTML document becomes active at its epoch E. E
header of the RTP packet carrying the TTML document. Computed TTML media times are o’¼Ćset
relative to E, in accordance with Section I.2 of

[TTML2]

MUST

.

When processing a sequence of TTML documents, where each is delivered in the same RTP
stream, exactly zero or one document
 be considered active at each moment in the RTP
time line. In the event that a document Dn-1 with En-1 is active, and document Dn is delivered
with En where En-1 < En, processing of Dn-1
MUST
MUST
begin.

 be stopped at En and processing of Dn

SHALL

When all de’¼üned content within a document has ended, then processing of the document
stopped. This can be tested by constructing the intermediate synchronic document sequence
from the document, as de’¼üned by
sequence is both active and contains no region elements, then all de’¼üned content within the
document has ended.

. If the last intermediate synchronic document in the

[TTML2]

MAY

 be

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

As described above, the RTP Timestamp does not specify the exact timing of the media in this
payload format. Additionally, documents may be fragmented across multiple packets. This
renders the RTCP jitter calculation unusable.

6.1.  TTML Processor Pro’¼üle

6.1.1.  Feature Extension Designation

This speci’¼ücation de’¼ünes the following TTML feature extension designation:

urn:ietf:rfc:8759#rtp-relative-media-time

The namespace urn:ietf:rfc:8759 is as de’¼üned by

[RFC2648]
.

A TTML content processor supports the #rtp-relative-media-time feature extension if it
processes media times in accordance with the payload processing requirements speci’¼üed in this
document, i.e., that the epoch E is set to the time equivalent to the RTP Timestamp, as detailed
above in Section 6.

6.1.2.  Processor Pro’¼üle Document

The required syntax and semantics declared in the minimal TTML2 processor pro’¼üle in Figure 3
 be supported by the receiver, as signi’¼üed by those feature or extension elements whose
MUST
value attribute is set to required.

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<profile xmlns="http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml#parameter"
    xmlns:ttm="http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml#metadata"
    xmlns:tt="http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml"
    type="processor"
    designator="urn:ietf:rfc:8759#processor"
    combine="mostRestrictive">
    <features xml:base="http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml/feature/">
        <tt:metadata>
            <ttm:desc>
                This document is a minimal TTML2 processor profile
                definition document intended to express the
                minimal requirements of a TTML processor able to
                process TTML delivered over RTP according to
                RFC 8759.
            </ttm:desc>
        </tt:metadata>
        <feature value="required">#timeBase-media</feature>
        <feature value="optional">
            #profile-full-version-2
        </feature>
    </features>
    <extensions xml:base="urn:ietf:rfc:8759">
        <extension restricts="#timeBase-media" value="required">
            #rtp-relative-media-time
        </extension>
    </extensions>
</profile>

Figure 3: TTML2 Processor Pro’¼üle De’¼ünition for Processing Documents Carried over RTP

Note that this requirement does not imply that the receiver needs to support either TTML1 or
TTML2 pro’¼üle processing, i.e., the TTML2 #profile-full-version-2 feature or any of its
dependent features.

6.1.3.  Processor Pro’¼üle Signalling

MUST
[TTML-MTPR]

 specify at least one processor pro’¼üle. Short codes for
. The processor pro’¼üles speci’¼üed in codecs
MUST

The codecs media type parameter
TTML pro’¼üles are registered at
be compatible with the processor pro’¼üle speci’¼üed in this document. Where multiple options
exist in codecs for possible processor pro’¼üle combinations (i.e., separated by | operator), every
permitted option
Where processor pro’¼üles (other than the one speci’¼üed in this document) are advertised in the
codecs parameter, the requirements of the processor pro’¼üle speci’¼üed in this document
 be
signalled, additionally using the + operator with its registered short code.

 be compatible with the processor pro’¼üle speci’¼üed in this document.

MUST

MAY

A processor pro’¼üle (X) is compatible with the processor pro’¼üle speci’¼üed here (P) if X includes all
the features and extensions in P (identi’¼üed by their character content) and the value attribute of
each is, at least, as restrictive as the value attribute of the feature or extension in P that has the
same character content. The term "restrictive" here is as de’¼üned in Section 6 of

.
[TTML2]

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

7.  Payload Examples

Figure 4 is an example of a valid TTML document that may be carried using the payload format
described in this document.

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<tt xml:lang="en"
 xmlns="http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml"
 xmlns:ttm="http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml#metadata"
 xmlns:ttp="http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml#parameter"
 xmlns:tts="http://www.w3.org/ns/ttml#styling"
 ttp:timeBase="media"
 >
  <head>
    <metadata>
      <ttm:title>Timed Text TTML Example</ttm:title>
      <ttm:copyright>The Authors (c) 2006</ttm:copyright>
    </metadata>
    <styling>
      <!--
        s1 specifies default color, font, and text alignment
      -->
      <style xml:id="s1"
        tts:color="white"
        tts:fontFamily="proportionalSansSerif"
        tts:fontSize="100%"
        tts:textAlign="center"
      />
    </styling>
    <layout>
      <region xml:id="subtitleArea"
        style="s1"
        tts:extent="78% 11%"
        tts:padding="1% 5%"
        tts:backgroundColor="black"
        tts:displayAlign="after"
      />
    </layout>
  </head>
  <body region="subtitleArea">
    <div>
      <p xml:id="subtitle1" dur="5.0s" style="s1">
        How truly delightful!
      </p>
    </div>
  </body>
</tt>

Figure 4: Example TTML Document

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

8.  Fragmentation of TTML Documents

Many of the use cases for TTML are low bit-rate with RTP packets expected to ’¼üt within the Path
MTU. However, some documents may exceed the Path MTU. In these cases, they may be split
between multiple packets. Where fragmentation is used, the following guidelines
followed:

MUST

 be

ŌĆó

RECOMMENDED

It is
possible number of fragments is created out of a document.

 that documents be fragmented as seldom as possible, i.e., the least

ŌĆó

MUST

Text strings
As a consequence, document fragmentation requires knowledge of the UTF-8/UTF-16
encoding formats to determine character boundaries.

 split at character boundaries. This enables decoding of partial documents.

ŌĆó

Document fragments
found in Section 9.

SHOULD

 be protected against packet losses. More information can be

When a document spans more than one RTP packet, the entire document is obtained by
concatenating User Data Words from each consecutive contributing packet in ascending order of
Sequence Number.

MUST

As described in Section 6, only zero or one TTML document may be active at any point in time. As
 only be one document transmitted for a given RTP Timestamp. Furthermore, as
such, there
stated in Section 4.1, the marker bit
 be set for a packet containing the last fragment of a
document. A packet following one where the marker bit is set contains the ’¼ürst fragment of a
new document. The ’¼ürst fragment might also be the last.

MUST

9.  Protection against Loss of Data

Consideration must be devoted to keeping loss of documents due to packet loss within acceptable
limits. What is deemed acceptable limits is dependent on the TTML pro’¼üle(s) used and use case,
among other things. As such, speci’¼üc limits are outside the scope of this document.

MAY

 be sent without additional protection if end-to-end network conditions
Documents
guarantee that document loss will be within acceptable limits under all anticipated load
conditions. Where such guarantees cannot be provided, implementations
to protect against packet loss. Potential mechanisms include Forward Error Correction (FEC)
[RFC5109]

, or an equivalent technique.

, retransmission

, duplication

[ST2022-7]

[RFC4588]

MUST

 use a mechanism

10.  Congestion Control Considerations

Congestion control for RTP
[RFC3551]
RTP pro’¼üle, e.g.,
Sessions"
[RFC3550]

 be used in accordance with

SHALL
. "Multimedia Congestion Control: Circuit Breakers for Unicast RTP

 and with any applicable

[RFC3550]

[RFC8083]
, which de’¼ünes criteria for when one is required to stop sending RTP packet streams.

 is an update to "RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-time Applications"

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

Applications implementing this standard
paid to Section 4.4 on Media Usability.
practices for applying congestion control to UDP streams.

MUST
[RFC8085]

 comply with

[RFC8083]

, with particular attention

 provides additional information on the best

11.  Payload Format Parameters

This RTP payload format is identi’¼üed using the existing application/ttml+xml media type as
registered with IANA

 and de’¼üned in

[TTML-MTPR]

[IANA]

.

11.1.  Clock Rate

The default clock rate for TTML over RTP is 1000 Hz. The clock rate
advertisements of the RTP stream where possible. This parameter has not been added to the
media type de’¼ünition as it is not applicable to TTML usage other than within RTP streams. In
other contexts, timing is de’¼üned within the TTML document.

 be included in any

SHOULD

When choosing a clock rate, implementers should consider what other media their TTML
streams may be used in conjunction with (e.g., video or audio). In these situations, it is
 that streams use the same clock source and clock rate as the related media. As
RECOMMENDED
TTML streams may be aperiodic, implementers should also consider the frequency range over
which they expect packets to be sent and the temporal resolution required.

11.2.  Session Description Protocol (SDP) Considerations

The mapping of the application/ttml+xml media type and its parameters
done according to

.
Section 3 of [RFC4855]

[TTML-MTPR] SHALL

 be

ŌĆó

The type name "application" goes in SDP "m=" as the media name.

ŌĆó

The media subtype "ttml+xml" goes in SDP "a=rtpmap" as the encoding name.

ŌĆó

The clock rate also goes in "a=rtpmap" as the clock rate.

Additional format-speci’¼üc parameters, as described in the media type speci’¼ücation,
included in the SDP ’¼üle in "a=fmtp" as a semicolon-separated list of "parameter=value" pairs, as
described in
’¼üle. Speci’¼üc requirements for the "codecs" parameter are included in Section 6.1.3.

 be included in the a=fmtp line of the SDP

. The codecs parameter

[RFC4855]

SHALL

MUST

 be

11.2.1.  Examples

A sample SDP mapping is presented in Figure 5.

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

m=application 30000 RTP/AVP 112
a=rtpmap:112 ttml+xml/90000
a=fmtp:112 charset=utf-8;codecs=im2t

Figure 5: Example SDP Mapping

In this example, a dynamic payload type 112 is used. The 90 kHz RTP timestamp rate is speci’¼üed
in the "a=rtpmap" line after the subtype. The codecs parameter de’¼üned in the "a=fmtp" line
indicates that the TTML data conforms to Internet Media and Captions (IMSC) 1.1 Text pro’¼üle
.
[TTML-IMSC1.1]

12.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

13.  Security Considerations

[RFC3551]

, RTP/AVPF

[RFC3550]
, RTP/SAVP

 and in any applicable RTP pro’¼üle,
, or RTP/SAVPF
[RFC3711]

RTP packets using the payload format de’¼üned in this speci’¼ücation are subject to the security
considerations discussed in the RTP speci’¼ücation
such as RTP/AVP
.
[RFC5124]
[RFC4585]
However, as "Securing the RTP Protocol Framework: Why RTP Does Not Mandate a Single Media
Security Solution"
 discusses, it is not an RTP payload format's responsibility to discuss
or mandate what solutions are used to meet the basic security goals (like con’¼üdentiality,
integrity, and source authenticity) for RTP in general. This responsibility lays on anyone using
RTP in an application. They can ’¼ünd guidance on available security mechanisms and important
considerations in "Options for Securing RTP Sessions"
 use one
or more appropriate strong security mechanisms. The rest of this Security Considerations section
discusses the security impacting properties of the payload format itself.

. Applications

[RFC7201]

[RFC7202]

SHOULD

To avoid potential bu’¼Ćer over’¼éow attacks, receivers should take care to validate that the User
Data Words in the RTP payload are of the appropriate length (using the Length ’¼üeld).

[RFC4732]

This payload format places no speci’¼üc restrictions on the size of TTML documents that may be
transmitted. As such, malicious implementations could be used to perform denial-of-service
(DoS) attacks.
mitigation strategies. Implementers should take into consideration that the size and frequency of
documents transmitted using this format may vary over time. As such, sender implementations
should avoid producing streams that exhibit DoS-like behaviour, and receivers should avoid false
identi’¼ücation of a legitimate stream as malicious.

 provides more information on DoS attacks and describes some

As with other XML types and as noted in
expansion of maliciously constructed XML entities can be used to consume large amounts of
memory, which may cause XML processors in constrained environments to fail.

Section 10 of "XML Media Types" [RFC7303]

, repeated

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

In addition, because of the extensibility features for TTML and of XML in general, it is possible
that "application/ttml+xml" may describe content that has security implications beyond those
described here. However, TTML does not provide for any sort of active or executable content,
and if the processor follows only the normative semantics of the published speci’¼ücation, this
content will be outside TTML namespaces and may be ignored. Only in the case where the
processor recognizes and processes the additional content or where further processing of that
content is dispatched to other processors would security issues potentially arise. And in that case,
they would fall outside the domain of this RTP payload format and the application/ttml+xml
registration document.

Although not prohibited, there are no expectations that XML signatures or encryption would
normally be employed.

Further information related to privacy and security at a document level can be found in
Appendix P of

[TTML2]

.

14.  Normative References

[IANA]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3550]

[RFC4103]

[RFC4855]

[RFC7303]

[RFC8083]

[RFC8085]

[RFC8174]

IANA "Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types>

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
,
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

.

,

,

,

Hellstrom, G. and P. Jones "RTP Payload for Text Conversation" RFC 4103 DOI
10.17487/RFC4103

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4103>

, June 2005,

.

,

,

,

Casner, S. "Media Type Registration of RTP Payload Formats" RFC 4855 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4855>
10.17487/RFC4855

, February 2007,

,

,

,

Thompson, H. and C. Lilley "XML Media Types" RFC 7303 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7303

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7303>

, July 2014,

.

,

,

,

Perkins, C. and V. Singh "Multimedia Congestion Control: Circuit Breakers for
,
<https://
Unicast RTP Sessions" RFC 8083 DOI 10.17487/RFC8083
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8083>

, March 2017,

,

.

,

Eggert, L., Fairhurst, G., and G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
,
8085 DOI 10.17487/RFC8085
rfc8085>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, March 2017,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

[TECH3370]

[TTML-MTPR]

[TTML2]

European Broadcasting Union "EBU-TT, Part 3, Live Subtitling Applications:
System Model and Content Pro’¼üle for Authoring and Contribution" EBU-TT Part
3 Tech 3370

,
<https://tech.ebu.ch/publications/tech3370>
.

, May 2017,

,

,

Adams, G., Ed. and M. Dolan, Ed. "TTML Media Type De’¼ünition and Pro’¼üle
Registry" W3C Working Group Note
pro’¼üle-registry/>
.

<https://www.w3.org/TR/ttml-

, April 2019,

,

,

Adams, G., Ed. and C. Concolato, Ed. "Timed Text Markup Language 2 (TTML2)"
W3C Recommendation REC-ttml2-20181108
www.w3.org/TR/ttml2/>

, November 2018,

<https://

,

.

,

15.  Informative References

[RFC2648]

[RFC3551]

[RFC3711]

[RFC4396]

[RFC4585]

[RFC4588]

[RFC4732]

[RFC4734]

[RFC5109]

Moats, R. "A URN Namespace for IETF Documents" RFC 2648 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2648

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2648>

,
, August 1999,

,

,

.

Schulzrinne, H. and S. Casner "RTP Pro’¼üle for Audio and Video Conferences
, July 2003,
,
with Minimal Control" STD 65 RFC 3551 DOI 10.17487/RFC3551
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3551>

,
,

,

Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K. Norrman "The Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, March

,
.

,

,

Rey, J. and Y. Matsui "RTP Payload Format for 3rd Generation Partnership
,
Project (3GPP) Timed Text" RFC 4396 DOI 10.17487/RFC4396
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4396>

, February 2006,

,

.

,

Ott, J., Wenger, S., Sato, N., Burmeister, C., and J. Rey "Extended RTP Pro’¼üle for
Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" RFC
,
4585 DOI 10.17487/RFC4585
rfc4585>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2006,

,

.

,

Rey, J., Leon, D., Miyazaki, A., Varsa, V., and R. Hakenberg "RTP Retransmission
<https://www.rfc-
Payload Format" RFC 4588 DOI 10.17487/RFC4588
.
editor.org/info/rfc4588>

, July 2006,

,

,

,

Handley, M., Ed., Rescorla, E., Ed., and IAB "Internet Denial-of-Service
,
Considerations" RFC 4732 DOI 10.17487/RFC4732
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4732>

, December 2006,

,

.

,

<https://

Schulzrinne, H. and T. Taylor "De’¼ünition of Events for Modem, Fax, and Text
Telephony Signals" RFC 4734 DOI 10.17487/RFC4734
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4734>

, December 2006,

,
,

<https://

,

.

,

Li, A., Ed. "RTP Payload Format for Generic Forward Error Correction" RFC
, December 2007,
,
5109 DOI 10.17487/RFC5109
rfc5109>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

.

,

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8759

RTP Payload for TTML Timed Text

March 2020

[RFC5124]

[RFC7201]

[RFC7202]

[ST2022-7]

Ott, J. and E. Carrara "Extended Secure RTP Pro’¼üle for Real-time Transport
Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/SAVPF)" RFC 5124 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5124

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5124>

, February 2008,

,

.

,

,

Westerlund, M. and C. Perkins "Options for Securing RTP Sessions" RFC 7201
DOI 10.17487/RFC7201
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7201>

, April 2014,

,

,

,

Perkins, C. and M. Westerlund "Securing the RTP Framework: Why RTP Does
Not Mandate a Single Media Security Solution" RFC 7202 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7202

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7202>

, April 2014,

,

,

.

,

,

SMPTE "Seamless Protection Switching of RTP Datagrams" ST 2022-7:2019 DOI
10.5594/SMPTE.ST2022-7.2019
document/8716822>

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/

, May 2019,

.

,

,

[TTML-IMSC1.1]

Lemieux, P., Ed. "TTML Pro’¼üles for Internet Media Subtitles and Captions 1.1"

,

,

W3C Recommendation REC-ttml-imsc1.1-20181108
www.w3.org/TR/ttml-imsc1.1/>

.

, November 2018,

<https://

Acknowledgements

,

Nigel Megitt James Gruessing Robert Wadge Andrew Bonney James Weaver John

Thanks to
,
Fletcher Frans de Jong
, and
development of this document. Thanks to the W3C Timed Text Working Group and EBU Timed
Text Working Group for their substantial e’¼Ćorts in developing the timed text format this payload
format is intended to carry.

,
 for their valuable feedback throughout the

Willem Vermost

,

,

,

Author's Address

James Sandford
British Broadcasting Corporation
Dock House, MediaCityUK
Salford
United Kingdom
Phone:
Email:

 +44 30304 09549
 james.sandford@bbc.co.uk

Sandford

Standards Track

Page 15

