Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8798
Standards Track
June 2020
2070-1721
C. Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI

RFC 8798
Additional Units for Sensor Measurement Lists
(SenML)

Abstract

The Sensor Measurement Lists (SenML) media type supports the indication of units for a
quantity represented. This short document registers a number of additional unit names in the
IANA registry for units in SenML. It also deﬁnes a registry for secondary units that cannot be in
SenML's main registry, as they are derived by linear transformation from units already in that
registry.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8798

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8798

Additional Units for SenML

June 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  New Primary Units

2.1.  Rationale

3.  New Registry for Secondary Units

4.  Operational Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

[RFC8428]
The Sensor Measurement Lists (SenML)
using the SenML ﬁeld "u", for the quantity given as a data value in a SenML record. For this
purpose, SenML deﬁnes an IANA registry of deﬁned unit names and their meanings; in the
present document, we call the unit names registered there "primary unit names".

 media type supports the indication of a unit,

This short document registers a number of additional units in the IANA registry for units in
SenML that appear to be necessary for further adopting SenML in other Standards Development
Organizations (SDOs).

The document also deﬁnes a registry for secondary unit names that cannot be in SenML's main
registry, as they are derived by linear transformation from units already in that registry.
Although SenML version 10
 does not provide for the direct use of these secondary
units, future support is intended via the use of SenML extension mechanisms, one of which is
proposed in

[SENML-VERSIONS]

[RFC8428]

.

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8798

Additional Units for SenML

June 2020

2.  New Primary Units

IANA has assigned new units in the "SenML Units" subregistry of the "Sensor Measurement Lists
(SenML)" registry

[IANA.SENML]

 (as deﬁned in

[RFC8428]

):

Symbol Description

B

VA

VAs

var

Byte (information content)

volt-ampere (Apparent Power)

volt-ampere second (Apparent Energy)

volt-ampere reactive (Reactive Power)

Type

Reference

ﬂoat

RFC 8798

ﬂoat

RFC 8798

ﬂoat

RFC 8798

ﬂoat

RFC 8798

vars

volt-ampere-reactive second (Reactive Energy)

ﬂoat

RFC 8798

J/m

joule per meter (Energy per distance)

kg/m3

kilogram per cubic meter (mass density, mass
concentration)

ﬂoat

RFC 8798

ﬂoat

RFC 8798

deg

degree (angle)*

ﬂoat

RFC 8798

Table 1: New Units Registered for SenML

2.1.  Rationale

[RFC8428]

SenML
 takes the position that unscaled SI units should always be used. However,
SenML makes one exception: The degree Celsius (as Cel) is allowed as an alternative to the K
(Kelvin).

This document takes the position that the same should apply to a small number of alternative
units in wide use:

The Byte:

[IEC-80000-13]

 deﬁnes both the bit (item 13-9.b) and the byte (item 13-9.c, also called

octet) as alternative names for the coherent unit used for dimensionless quantities, for the
purpose of giving storage capacity and related quantities. While the name octet is
associated with the symbol o, this is in wide use only in French-speaking countries.
Globally more widespread is the symbol B for byte, even though B is already taken in SI for
bel.
leaving B free for the usage proposed here. While this is potentially confusing, the
situation is widely understood in engineering circles and is unlikely to cause actual
problems.

 therefore registers dB as the SenML unit for logarithmic relative power,

[RFC8428]

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8798

Additional Units for SenML

June 2020

The Volt-Ampere:

[IEC-80000-6]

 deﬁnes the volt ampere (VA) (item 6-57.a) as a unit for apparent

power; items 6-59.a, 6-60.a, and 6-61.a also use the unit for complex, reactive, and non-
active power.

The Volt-Ampere Reactive:

[IEC-80000-6]

 item 6-60.b deﬁnes the volt-ampere reactive (var) as
an alternative (and fully equivalent) unit to VA speciﬁcally for reactive power (with the
primary unit VA); it has become clear that there is strong interest in using this unit
speciﬁcally for the imaginary content of complex power, i.e., reactive power

[IEEE-1459]

.

The Joule per meter is not a traditional electromagnetic unit. It and its scaled derivatives (in
particular Wh/km) are used to describe the energy expended for achieving motion over a given
distance, e.g., as an equivalent for electrical cars of the inverse of "mileage".

The unit "degree" is in wide use in practice for plane angles (as in heading, bearing, etc.). It is
marked with an asterisk because the preferred coherent SI unit is radian ("rad").

3.  New Registry for Secondary Units

IANA has created a "Secondary Units" subregistry in the "Sensor Measurement Lists (SenML)"
registry

[IANA.SENML]

 deﬁned in

[RFC8428]

.

The registry has six columns:

•

Secondary Unit: a newly registered name allocated within the same namespace as SenML
units

•

Description: a short description (usually just the expansion of an abbreviation)

•

SenML Unit: an existing SenML unit from the SenML Units registry

•

Scale, Oﬀset: two rational numbers, expressed in decimal (optionally, with a decimal
exponent given) or as a fraction represented using a "/" character to separate numerator and
denominator

•

Reference: where the entry comes from

Quantities expressed in the secondary unit can be converted into the SenML unit by ﬁrst
multiplying their value with the scale number and then adding the oﬀset, yielding the value in
the given SenML unit.

The initial content of the "Secondary Units" subregistry is provided in Table 2:

Secondary
Unit

Description

SenML
Unit

Scale Oﬀset

Reference

ms

min

h

millisecond

minute

hour

s

s

s

1/1000

60

3600

0

0

0

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8798

Additional Units for SenML

June 2020

Secondary
Unit

Description

SenML
Unit

Scale Oﬀset

Reference

MHz

kW

kVA

kvar

Ah

Wh

kWh

varh

kvarh

kVAh

megahertz

kilowatt

kilovolt-ampere

kilovar

ampere-hour

watt-hour

kilowatt-hour

var-hour

kilovar-hour

Hz

W

VA

var

C

J

J

vars

vars

kilovolt-ampere-hour

VAs

Wh/km

watt-hour per kilometer

J/m

KiB

GB

kibibyte

gigabyte

Mbit/s

megabit per second

B

B

bit/s

bit/s

bit/s

V

A

byte per second

megabyte per second

millivolt

milliampere

B/s

MB/s

mV

mA

dBm

ug/m3

1000000

1000

1000

1000

3600

3600

3600000

3600

3600000

3600000

3.6

1024

1e9

1000000

8

8000000

1/1000

1/1000

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

decibel (milliwatt)

dBW

1

-30

RFC 8798

microgram per cubic
meter

kg/m3

1e-9

0

RFC 8798

mm/h

millimeter per hour

m/h

ppm

meter per hour

parts per million

m/s

m/s

/

1/3600000

1/3600

1e-6

0

0

0

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8798

Additional Units for SenML

June 2020

Secondary
Unit

Description

SenML
Unit

Scale Oﬀset

Reference

/100

/1000

hPa

mm

cm

km

percent (Note 1)

permille

hectopascal

millimeter

centimeter

kilometer

/

/

Pa

m

m

m

km/h

kilometer per hour

m/s

Table 2: Secondary Units Registered for SenML

1/100

1/1000

100

1/1000

1/100

1000

1/3.6

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

RFC 8798

[RFC8428]

Note 1: This registration does not use the obvious name "%" because this name has
 synonym for "/"
been taken in
(unity) for legacy reasons. Note that the presence of both "%" and "/100" with
diﬀerent meanings is likely to create confusion, so the present document adds some
weight to the recommendation against using the counterintuitive unit name "%".

 already, where it is a

NOT RECOMMENDED

Example: The value of a quantity given as 100 ms is ﬁrst multiplied by 1/1000, yielding the
number 0.1, and the oﬀset 0 is then added, yielding the number 0.1 again, leading to a quantity of
0.1 s. The value of a quantity given as 10 dBm is ﬁrst multiplied by 1, yielding the number 10, and
the oﬀset -30 is then added, yielding the number -20, leading to a quantity of -20 dBW.

New entries can be added to the registration by Expert Review as deﬁned in
should exercise their own good judgment, with the same guidelines as used for SenML units
(
Section 12.1 of [RFC8428]
of what could be understood as preﬁxes on their own, not the use of preﬁxes inside secondary
unit names. Guidelines to the diﬀerence between units (which can go into the registry) and
quantities (which cannot) are widely available; see, for instance,

), but without applying rules 4, 5, and 8. Note that rule 7 limits the use

[RFC8126]

. Experts

.
[BIPM]

 and

[RS]

[RFC8428]

As of SenML version 10
The use of primary units enables direct comparison of measurements from diﬀerent sources.
Also, it facilitates implementations that trigger on the presence of a quantity in a certain unit,
without the need to track any additional secondary units that may be registered for this quantity.

, SenML packs are limited to using primary units in "u" ﬁelds.

Where the beneﬁts of directly using a secondary unit in a SenML pack outweigh the above
 be enabled by indicating a new
considerations, the use of secondary units in "u" ﬁelds
SenML version that speciﬁcally allows this and/or by using a ﬁeld with a label name that ends
with the "_" character ("must-understand" ﬁeld) whose deﬁnition speciﬁcally allows this. The
deﬁnition of these versions and ﬁelds is outside the scope of the present speciﬁcation; one such
deﬁnition is proposed in

.
[SENML-VERSIONS]

MAY

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8798

Additional Units for SenML

June 2020

4.  Operational Considerations

The "Secondary Units" subregistry is expected to grow at a faster pace than the subregistry of
primary unit names. It also is amenable to automatic interpretation, by making use of the scale
and oﬀset columns.

Implementers may be tempted to equip each instance of their systems with code to download
new versions of the registry from IANA frequently in order to be able to make use of newly
deﬁned secondary unit names. This can create high load at IANA and a potential single point of
failure. Instead of pulling the registry in each individual instance of the code, the software
update mechanism (or a similar mechanism that leads to less frequent IANA visits)
SHOULD
used to disseminate updated units registries obtained from IANA towards the instances via
common repositories.

 be

5.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of

[RFC8428]

 apply.

The introduction of new measurement units poses no additional security considerations except a
potential for additional confusion about the proper unit to use and the risk that an
implementation based on the assumption described in the penultimate paragraph of Section 3 no
longer works properly. However, an implementation processing a pack while making use of
secondary units is guaranteed to have been developed with an awareness of the risks of having
multiple units available for the same logical type. In any case, the existing risk of an existing
SenML implementation not understanding a unit that was not in the initial registry content
provided in
potential use of secondary units by the need for a must-understand ﬁeld or an updated version
ﬁeld.

 is unchanged, and implementations are warned properly about the

[RFC8428]

6.  IANA Considerations

See Section 2 and Section 3.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[IANA.SENML]

[IEC-80000-13]

,

IANA "Sensor Measurement Lists (SenML)" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/senml>

.

,

,

IEC "Quantities and units - Part 13: Information science and technology"
Edition 1.0 IEC 80000-13

, March 2008.

,

,

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8798

Additional Units for SenML

June 2020

[IEC-80000-6]

[IEEE-1459]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8428]

,

IEC "Quantities and units - Part 6: Electromagnetism" Edition 1.0 IEC 80000-6
March 2008.

,

,

,

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard Deﬁnitions for the Measurement of Electric Power
Quantities Under Sinusoidal, Nonsinusoidal, Balanced, or Unbalanced
Conditions" IEEE Std 1459-2010 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2010.5439063
2010,

<https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2010.5439063>

,

,

.

, March

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Jennings, C., Shelby, Z., Arkko, J., Keranen, A., and C. Bormann "Sensor
,
Measurement Lists (SenML)" RFC 8428 DOI 10.17487/RFC8428
, August 2018,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8428>

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[BIPM]

[RS]

Bureau International des Poids et Mesures "The International System of Units
,
(SI)" 9th edition version 1.06
brochure/SI-Brochure-9-EN.pdf>

<https://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/si-

, 2019,
.

,

,

,

Rohde & Schwarz "Standard-compliant usage of quantities, units and
,
equations" version 5.0
dl_downloads/dl_common_library/dl_brochures_and_datasheets/pdf_1/
Standard-
.
compliant_usage_of_quantities_units_and_equations_bro_en_5214-5061-62_v0500.pdf>

<https://scdn.rohde-schwarz.com/ur/pws/

, July 2017,

[SENML-VERSIONS]

Bormann, C. "SenML Features and Versions" Work in Progress Internet-
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/

,
Draft, draft-ietf-core-senml-versions-00
draft-ietf-core-senml-versions-00>

, 13 May 2020,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

Ari Keränen
well as by
helped improve the document.

 pointed out the need for additional units in SenML. Comments provided by him as

Thomas Fossati Joaquin Prado Jaime Jiménez Benjamin Kaduk
,

,

,

, and

Rob Wilton

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8798

Additional Units for SenML

June 2020

Author's Address

Carsten Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-421-218-63921
 cabo@tzi.org

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 9

