Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8770
6987
Standards Track
April 2020
2070-1721
K. Patel
Arrcus

P. Pillay-Esnault
PPE Consulting

M. Bhardwaj
Cisco Systems

S. Bayraktar
Cisco Systems

RFC 8770
Host Router Support for OSPFv2

Abstract

The Open Shortest Path First Version 2 (OSPFv2) protocol does not have a mechanism for a node
to repel transit tra’¼āc if it is on the shortest path. This document de’¼ünes a bit called the Host-bit
(H-bit). This bit enables a router to advertise that it is a non-transit router. This document also
describes the changes needed to support the H-bit in the domain. In addition, this document
updates RFC 6987 to advertise Type 2 External and Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Link State
Advertisements (LSAs) (RFC 3101) with a high cost in order to repel tra’¼āc e’¼Ćectively.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8770

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identi’¼üed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in e’¼Ćect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpli’¼üed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpli’¼üed BSD License.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8770

Host Router Support for OSPFv2

April 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Host-Bit Support

4.  SPF Modi’¼ücations

5.  Autodiscovery and Backward Compatibility

6.  OSPF AS-External-LSAs / NSSA-LSAs with Type 2 Metrics

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The OSPFv2 protocol speci’¼ües a Shortest Path First (SPF) algorithm that identi’¼ües transit vertices
based on their adjacencies. Therefore, OSPFv2 does not have a mechanism to prevent tra’¼āc
transiting a participating node if it is a transit vertex in the only existing or shortest path to the
destination. The use of metrics to make the node undesirable can help to repel tra’¼āc only if an
alternative better route exists.

A mechanism to move tra’¼āc away from the shortest path is particularly useful for a number of
use cases:

1.

Graceful isolation of a router, to avoid blackhole scenarios when there is a reload and
possible long reconvergence times.

2.

Closet switches that are not usually used for transit tra’¼āc but need to participate in the
topology.

3.

Overloaded routers that could use such a capability to temporarily repel tra’¼āc until they
stabilize.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8770

Host Router Support for OSPFv2

April 2020

4.

BGP route re’¼éectors, known as virtual Route Re’¼éectors, that are not in the forwarding path
but are in central locations such as data centers. Such route re’¼éectors are typically used for
route distribution and are not capable of forwarding transit tra’¼āc. However, they need to
learn the OSPF topology to perform SPF computation for optimal routes and reachability
resolution for their clients

[BGP-ORR]

.

This document describes the functionality provided by the Host-bit (H-bit); this functionality
prevents other OSPFv2 routers from using the host router by excluding it in path calculations for
transit tra’¼āc in OSPFv2 routing domains. If the H-bit is set, then the calculation of the shortest-
path tree for an area, as described in
, is modi’¼üed by including a check
to verify that transit vertices DO NOT have the H-bit set (see Section 4). Furthermore, in order to
repel tra’¼āc e’¼Ćectively, this document updates
Stubby Area (NSSA) Link State Advertisements (LSAs)
(see Section 6). OSPFv3
H-bit supports similar functionality.

 are advertised with a high cost
 de’¼ünes an option bit, known as the R-bit, for router-LSAs; the

 so that Type 2 External and Not-So-

Section 16.1 of [RFC2328]

[RFC5340]

[RFC6987]

[RFC3101]

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Host-Bit Support

This document de’¼ünes a new router-LSA bit, known as the Host-bit or the H-bit. An OSPFv2
router advertising a router-LSA with the H-bit set indicates that it
router (see Section 4) by other OSPFv2 routers in the area that support the H-bit functionality.

 be used as a transit

MUST NOT

If the H-bit is not set, then backward compatibility is achieved, as the behavior will be the same
as in

[RFC2328]

.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |            LS age             |     Options   |       1       |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                        Link State ID                          |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                     Advertising Router                        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                     LS sequence number                        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |         LS checksum           |             length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |H|0|0|N|W|V|E|B|        0      |            # links            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                          Link ID                              |

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8770

Host Router Support for OSPFv2

April 2020

  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                         Link Data                             |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |     Type      |     # TOS     |            metric             |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                              ...                              |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |      TOS      |        0      |          TOS metric           |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                          Link ID                              |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                         Link Data                             |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                              ...                              |

Figure 1: OSPF Router-LSA

Bit H is the high-order bit of the OSPF ’¼éags, as shown below.

                            0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
                            +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                            |H|0|0|N|W|V|E|B|
                            +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: OSPF Router-LSA Option Bits

When the H-bit is set, the OSPFv2 router is a host (non-transit) router and is incapable of
forwarding transit tra’¼āc. In this mode, the other OSPFv2 routers in the area
host router for transit tra’¼āc but may send tra’¼āc to its local destinations.

MUST NOT

 use the

An OSPFv2 router originating a router-LSA with the H-bit set
with a link cost of MaxLinkMetric

.
[RFC6987]

MUST

 advertise all its non-stub links

When the H-bit is set, an Area Border Router (ABR)
self-originated router-LSAs for all attached areas. The consistency of the setting will prevent
interŌĆæarea tra’¼āc transiting through the router by suppressing advertisements of pre’¼üxes from
other routers in the area in its summary-LSAs. Only IPv4 pre’¼üxes associated with its local
interfaces
MUST
a router with the H-bit set.

 be advertised in summary-LSAs to provide reachability to end hosts attached to

 advertise the same H-bit setting in its

MUST

When the H-bit is set, the host router cannot act as an Autonomous System Border Router (ASBR).
Indeed, ASBRs are transit routers to pre’¼üxes that are typically imported through redistribution
of pre’¼üxes from other routing protocols. Therefore, non-local IPv4 pre’¼üxes, e.g., those imported
from other routing protocols,
 be advertised in AS-external-LSAs if the H-bit is set.
Some use cases, such as an overloaded router or a router being gracefully isolated, may bene’¼üt
from continued advertisements of non-local pre’¼üxes. In these cases, the Type 2 metric in AS-
external-LSAs

 to repel tra’¼āc (see Section 6 of this document).

 be set to LSIn’¼ünity

SHOULD NOT

[RFC2328]

MUST

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8770

Host Router Support for OSPFv2

April 2020

4.  SPF Modi’¼ücations

 is modi’¼üed to ensure that the routers
The SPF calculation described in
originating router-LSAs with the H-bit set will not be used for transit tra’¼āc. Step (2) is modi’¼üed
to include a check on the H-bit, as shown below. (Please note that all of the sub-procedures of
Step (2) remain unchanged and are not included in the excerpt below.)

Section 16.1 of [RFC2328]

(2)

Call the vertex just added to the tree "vertex V". Examine the LSA associated with vertex
V. This is a lookup in Area A's link state database based on the Vertex ID. If this is a
router-LSA, and the H-bit of the router-LSA is set, and vertex V is not the root, then the
router should not be used for transit and Step (3) should be executed immediately. If
this is a router-LSA and bit V of the router-LSA (see Appendix A.4.2) is set, set Area A's
TransitCapability to TRUE. In any case, each link described by the LSA gives the cost to
an adjacent vertex. For each described link (say it joins vertex V to vertex W):

5.  Autodiscovery and Backward Compatibility

To reduce the possibility of any routing loops due to partial deployment, this document de’¼ünes
an OSPF Router Information (RI) LSA capability bit

. See Section 7 (Table 2).

[RFC7770]

The RI LSA

MUST

 be area-scoped.

Autodiscovery via announcement of the OSPF Host Router capability (Section 7) ensures that the
H-bit functionality and its associated SPF changes
given OSPF area support this functionality.

 only take e’¼Ćect if all the routers in a

MUST

In normal operation, it is possible that the RI LSA will fail to reach all routers in an area in a
timely manner. For example, if a new router without H-bit support joins an area that previously
had only H-bit-capable routers with the H-bit set, then it may take some time for the RI LSA to
propagate to all routers. While it is propagating, the routers in the area will gradually detect the
presence of a router that does not support the capability and will revert back to the normal SPF
calculation. During the propagation time, the area as a whole is unsure of the status of the new
router; this type of situation can cause temporary transient loops.

The following recommendations will mitigate transient routing loops:

ŌĆó

RECOMMENDED

Implementations are
override enforcement of the H-bit functionality in partial deployments where the topology
guarantees that OSPFv2 routers not supporting the H-bit do not compute routes resulting in
routing loops.

 to provide a con’¼üguration parameter to manually

ŌĆó

 advertise all of the router's non-stub links with a metric
All routers with the H-bit set
equal to MaxLinkMetric
 in its LSAs in order to prevent OSPFv2 routers (unless a
last-resort path) that do not support the H-bit from attempting to use the non-stub links for
transit tra’¼āc.

MUST
[RFC6987]

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8770

Host Router Support for OSPFv2

April 2020

ŌĆó

All routers supporting the H-bit
all nodes support the H-bit before actively using the H-bit feature. If any router does not
advertise the OSPF Host Router capability (Section 7), then the SPF modi’¼ücations described
in Section 4

 check the RI LSAs of all nodes in the area to verify that

 be used in the area.

MUST NOT

MUST

6.  OSPF AS-External-LSAs / NSSA-LSAs with Type 2 Metrics

 with a
When calculating the path to a pre’¼üx in an OSPF AS-external-LSA or NSSA-LSA
Type 2 metric, the advertised Type 2 metric is taken as more signi’¼ücant than the OSPF intra-area
or inter-area path. Hence, advertising the links with MaxLinkMetric as speci’¼üed in
does not discourage transit tra’¼āc when calculating AS-external or NSSA routes with Type 2
metrics.

[RFC6987]

[RFC3101]

Consequently, this document updates
AS-external-LSAs or NSSA-LSAs is advertised as LSIn’¼ünity-1
 be set to LSIn’¼ünity.
Type 2 metric

[RFC6987]

MUST

 so that the Type 2 metric in any self-originated

[RFC2328]

. If the H-bit is set, then the

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following value in the "OSPFv2 Router Properties Registry".

Value

Description

Reference

0x80

Host (H-bit)

RFC 8770

Table 1: H-Bit

IANA has registered the following in the "OSPF Router Informational Capability Bits" registry.

Bit Number

Capability Name

Reference

7

OSPF Host Router

RFC 8770

Table 2: OSPF Host Router Capability Bit

8.  Security Considerations

This document introduces the H-bit, which is a capability feature that restricts the use of a router
for transit, while only its local destinations are reachable. This is a subset of the operations of a
normal router and therefore should not introduce new security considerations beyond those
already known in OSPFv2
. The feature introduces the advertisement of host router
capability information to all OSPFv2 routers in an area. This information can be leveraged for

[RFC2328]

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8770

Host Router Support for OSPFv2

April 2020

discovery and veri’¼ücation that all routers in the area support the capability before the feature is
turned on. In the event that a rogue or buggy router incorrectly advertises its capability, possible
scenarios are as follows:

ŌĆó

The router does not have the capability but sends the H-bit set in its LSAs. In this case, a
routing loop is possible. However, this is mitigated by the fact that this router should be
avoided anyway. Moreover, the link metrics cost (MaxLinkMetric) of this router will mitigate
this situation. In any case, a router advertising the H-bit capability without its link metrics
cost equal to MaxLinkMetric could be a rogue router and should be avoided.

ŌĆó

The router has the capability but sends the H-bit clear in its LSAs. In this case, the router
merely prevents the support of other H-bit routers in the area and prevents all the routers
from running the modi’¼üed SPF. Any impacts are also mitigated in this scenario, as other H-
bit routers in the area also advertise the MaxLinkMetric cost, so they will still be avoided
unless they are the lastŌĆæresort path.

ŌĆó

The rogue router is on the only transit path for some destinations and sends the H-bit set (for
no good/valid reason) in its LSAs, and e’¼Ćectively partitions the network. This case is
indistinguishable from the normal case where an operator may consciously decide to set the
H-bit to perform maintenance on a router that is on the only transit path. The OSPF protocol
will continue to function within the partitioned domains.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2328]

[RFC6987]

[RFC7770]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,
Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

,

.

,

, April 1998,

Retana, A., Nguyen, L., Zinin, A., White, R., and D. McPherson "OSPF Stub Router
,
Advertisement" RFC 6987 DOI 10.17487/RFC6987
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6987>

, September 2013,

<https://

,

.

,

Lindem, A., Ed., Shen, N., Vasseur, JP., Aggarwal, R., and S. Sha’¼Ćer "Extensions to
OSPF for Advertising Optional Router Capabilities" RFC 7770 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7770

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7770>

, February 2016,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

[BGP-ORR]

Raszuk, R., Ed., Cassar, C., Aman, E., Decraene, B., and K. Wang "BGP Optimal
Route Re’¼éection (BGP-ORR)" Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-idr-bgp-

,

,

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8770

Host Router Support for OSPFv2

April 2020

optimal-route-re’¼éection-20
idr-bgp-optimal-route-re’¼éection-20>

.

, 8 January 2020,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-

[RFC3101]

[RFC5340]

Murphy, P. "The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option" RFC 3101 DOI
10.17487/RFC3101

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3101>

, January 2003,

,

,

,

.

Coltun, R., Ferguson, D., Moy, J., and A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI
10.17487/RFC5340

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

, July 2008,

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to acknowledge
[RFC6987]
, and
their comments.

,

Hasmit Grover
,
,

Acee Lindem Abhay Roy David Ward Burjiz Pithawala

, and

Michael Barnes

 for

 for discovering the limitation in

Authors' Addresses

Keyur Patel
Arrcus
Email:

 keyur@arrcus.com

Padma Pillay-Esnault
PPE Consulting
Email:

 padma.ietf@gmail.com

Manish Bhardwaj
Cisco Systems
170 W. Tasman Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

 manbhard@cisco.com

Serpil Bayraktar
Cisco Systems
170 W. Tasman Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
 serpil@cisco.com
Email:

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

