Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8777
7450
Standards Track
April 2020
2070-1721
J. Holland
Akamai Technologies, Inc.

RFC 8777
DNS Reverse IP Automatic Multicast Tunneling
(AMT) Discovery

Abstract

This document updates RFC 7450, "Automatic Multicast Tunneling" (or AMT), by modifying the
relay discovery process. A new DNS resource record named AMTRELAY is deﬁned for publishing
AMT relays for source-speciﬁc multicast channels. The reverse IP DNS zone for a multicast
sender's IP address is conﬁgured to use AMTRELAY resource records to advertise a set of AMT
relays that can receive and forward multicast traﬃc from that sender over an AMT tunnel. Other
extensions and clariﬁcations to the relay discovery process are also deﬁned.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8777

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Holland

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Background

1.2.  Terminology

1.2.1.  Relays and Gateways

1.2.2.  Deﬁnitions

1.2.3.  Requirements Language

2.  Relay Discovery Overview

2.1.  Basic Mechanics

2.2.  Signaling and Discovery

2.3.  Example Deployments

2.3.1.  Example Receiving Networks

2.3.2.  Example Sending Networks

3.  Relay Discovery Operation

3.1.  Optimal Relay Selection

3.1.1.  Overview

3.1.2.  Preference Ordering

3.1.3.  Connecting to Multiple Relays

3.2.  Happy Eyeballs

3.2.1.  Overview

3.2.2.  Algorithm Guidelines

3.2.3.  Connection Deﬁnition

3.3.  Guidelines for Restarting Discovery

3.3.1.  Overview

Holland

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

3.3.2.  Updates to Restarting Events

3.3.3.  Tunnel Stability

3.3.4.  Traﬃc Health

3.3.5.  Relay Loaded or Shutting Down

3.3.6.  Relay Discovery Messages vs. Restarting Discovery

3.3.7.  Independent Discovery per Traﬃc Source

3.4.  DNS Conﬁguration

3.5.  Waiting for DNS Resolution

4.  AMTRELAY Resource Record Deﬁnition

4.1.  AMTRELAY RRType

4.2.  AMTRELAY RData Format

4.2.1.  RData Format - Precedence

4.2.2.  RData Format - Discovery Optional (D-bit)

4.2.3.  RData Format - Type

4.2.4.  RData Format - Relay

4.3.  AMTRELAY Record Presentation Format

4.3.1.  Representation of AMTRELAY RRs

4.3.2.  Examples

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

6.1.  Use of AMT

6.2.  Record-Spooﬁng

6.3.  Congestion

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Unknown RRType Construction

Holland

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

This document deﬁnes DNS Reverse IP AMT Discovery (DRIAD), a mechanism for AMT gateways
to discover AMT relays that are capable of forwarding multicast traﬃc from a known source IP
address.

AMT (Automatic Multicast Tunneling) is deﬁned in
multicast traﬃc over a unicast tunnel in order to traverse network segments that are not
multicast capable.

[RFC7450]

 and provides a method to transport

 explains that the relay selection process for AMT is intended to be
Section 4.1.5 of [RFC7450]
more ﬂexible than the particular discovery method described in that document. That section
further explains that the selection process might need to depend on the source of the multicast
traﬃc in some deployments, since a relay must be able to receive multicast traﬃc from the
desired source in order to forward it.

 goes on to suggest DNS-based queries as a possible solution: DRIAD is
Section 4.1.5 of [RFC7450]
DNS based. This solution also addresses the relay discovery issues in the "Disadvantages of this
conﬁguration" lists in Sections 3.3 and 3.4 of

[RFC8313]
.

The goal for DRIAD is to enable multicast connectivity between separate multicast-enabled
networks without preconﬁguring any peering arrangements between the networks when neither
the sending nor the receiving network is connected to a multicast-enabled backbone.

This document extends the relay discovery procedure described in

Section 5.2.3.4 of [RFC7450]

.

1.1.  Background

The reader is assumed to be familiar with the basic DNS concepts described in
[RFC1035]

, and the subsequent documents that update them, particularly

[RFC1034]
[RFC2181]
.

,

The reader is also assumed to be familiar with the concepts and terminology regarding source-
speciﬁc multicast as described in
Version 3 (IGMPv3)
group management of source-speciﬁc multicast channels, as described in

 and Multicast Listener Discovery Version 2 (MLDv2)
[RFC3810]
[RFC4604]
.

 and the use of Internet Group Management Protocol
 for

[RFC3376]

[RFC4607]

The reader should also be familiar with AMT, particularly the terminology listed in Sections 3.2
and 3.3 of

[RFC7450]
.

Holland

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

1.2.  Terminology

1.2.1.  Relays and Gateways

When reading this document, it's especially helpful to recall that once an AMT tunnel is
established, the relay receives native multicast traﬃc and sends unicast tunnel-encapsulated
traﬃc to the gateway. The gateway receives the tunnel-encapsulated packets, decapsulates them,
and forwards them as native multicast packets, as illustrated in Figure 1.

  Multicast  +-----------+  Unicast  +-------------+  Multicast
 >---------> | AMT relay | >=======> | AMT gateway | >--------->
             +-----------+           +-------------+

Figure 1: AMT Tunnel Illustration

1.2.2.  Deﬁnitions

Term Deﬁnition

(S,G)

A source-speciﬁc multicast channel, as described in
addresses with a source host IP and destination group IP.

[RFC4607]

. A pair of IP

CMTS

Cable Modem Termination System

discovery
broker

A broker or load balancer for AMT relay discovery, as mentioned in
4.2.1.1 of [RFC7450]

.

Section

downstream Further from the source of traﬃc, as described in

.
[RFC7450]

FQDN Fully Qualiﬁed Domain Name, as described in

[RFC8499]
.

gateway

An AMT gateway, as described in

[RFC7450]
.

L ﬂag

The "Limit" ﬂag described in

Section 5.1.4.4 of [RFC7450]

.

OLT

Optical Line Terminal

relay

An AMT relay, as described in

[RFC7450]
.

RPF

Reverse Path Forwarding, as described in

[RFC5110]

.

RR

A DNS Resource Record, as described in

[RFC1034]
.

RRType

A DNS Resource Record Type, as described in

[RFC1034]

.

SSM Source-speciﬁc multicast, as described in

[RFC4607]
.

Holland

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

Term Deﬁnition

upstream Closer to the source of traﬃc, as described in

[RFC7450]
.

Table 1: Deﬁnitions

1.2.3.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Relay Discovery Overview

2.1.  Basic Mechanics

The AMTRELAY resource record (RR) deﬁned in this document is used to publish the IP address
or domain name of a set of AMT relays or discovery brokers that can receive, encapsulate, and
forward multicast traﬃc from a particular sender.

The sender is the owner of the RR and conﬁgures the zone so that it contains a set of RRs that
provide the addresses or domain names of AMT relays (or discovery brokers that advertise
relays) that can receive multicast IP traﬃc from that sender.

This enables AMT gateways in remote networks to discover an AMT relay that is capable of
forwarding traﬃc from the sender. This, in turn, enables those AMT gateways to receive the
multicast traﬃc tunneled over a unicast AMT tunnel from those relays and then pass the
multicast packets into networks or applications that are using the gateway to subscribe to traﬃc
from that sender.

This mechanism only works for source-speciﬁc multicast (SSM) channels. The source address of
the (S,G) is reversed and used as an index into one of the reverse mapping trees (in-addr.arpa for
IPv4, as described in
).
[RFC3596]

, or ip6.arpa for IPv6, as described in

Section 3.5 of [RFC1035]

Section 2.5 of

Section 5.2.3.4 of [RFC7450]

This mechanism should be treated as an extension of the AMT relay discovery procedure
described in
discovery
source IP addresses for desired (S,G)s are known to the gateway, and conditions match the
requirements outlined in Section 3.1.

. A gateway that supports this method of AMT relay

 use this method whenever it's performing the relay discovery procedure, the

SHOULD

Some detailed example use cases are provided in Section 2.3, and other applicable example
topologies appear in Sections 3.3, 3.4, and 3.5 of

[RFC8313]
.

Holland

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

2.2.  Signaling and Discovery

This section describes a typical example of the end-to-end process for signaling a receiver's join
of an SSM channel that relies on an AMTRELAY RR.

The example in Figure 2 contains two multicast-enabled networks that are both connected to the
internet with non-multicast-capable links and which have no direct association with each other.

A content provider operates a sender, which is a source of multicast traﬃc inside a multicast-
capable network.

An end user who is a customer of the content provider has a multicast-capable Internet Service
Provider (ISP), which operates a receiving network that uses an AMT gateway. The AMT gateway
is DRIAD capable.

The content provider provides the user with a receiving application that tries to subscribe to at
least one (S,G). This receiving application could, for example, be a ﬁle transfer system using File
Delivery over Unidirectional Transport (FLUTE)
[RFC3550]

, or any other application that might subscribe to an SSM channel.

, a live video stream using RTP

[RFC6726]

Holland

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

                  +---------------+
                  |    Sender     |
   |    |         |  2001:db8::a  |
   |    |         +---------------+
   |Data|                 |
   |Flow|      Multicast  |
  \|    |/      Network   |
   \    /                 |        5: Propagate RPF for Join(S,G)
    \  /          +---------------+
     \/           |   AMT relay   |
                  | 2001:db8:c::f |
                  +---------------+
                          |        4: Gateway connects to Relay,
                                      sends Join(S,G) over tunnel
                          |
                 Unicast
                  Tunnel  |        3: --> DNS Query: type=AMTRELAY,
                                  /        a.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.
      ^                   |      /         0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.
      |                         /          8.b.d.0.1.0.0.2.ip6.arpa
      |                   |    /      <-- Response:
  Join/Leave       +-------------+         AMTRELAY=2001:db8:c::f
   Signals         | AMT gateway |
      |            +-------------+
      |                   |        2: Propagate RPF for Join(S,G)
      |        Multicast  |
                Network   |
                          |     1: Join(S=2001:db8::a,G=ff3e::8000:d)
                   +-------------+
                   |   Receiver  |
                   |  (end user) |
                   +-------------+

Figure 2: DRIAD Messaging

In this simple example, the sender IP is 2001:db8::a, which is sending traﬃc to the group address
ﬀ3e::8000:d, and the relay IP is 2001:db8::c:f.

The content provider has previously conﬁgured the DNS zone that contains the reverse IP
domain name for the sender's IP address so that it provides an AMTRELAY RR with the relay's IP
address (see Section 4.3 for details about the AMTRELAY RR format and semantics). As described
in

, the reverse IP FQDN of the sender's address "2001:db8::a" is:

Section 2.5 of [RFC3596]

 a.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.8.b.d.0.1.0.0.2.ip6.
                                                                arpa.

The sequence of events depicted in Figure 2 is as follows:

1.

The end user starts the app, which issues a join to the (S,G): (2001:db8::a, ﬀ3e::8000:d).

Holland

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

2.

The join propagates with RPF through the receiver's multicast-enabled network with PIM
[RFC7761]
to join the (S,G).

 or another multicast routing mechanism until the AMT gateway receives a signal

3.

The AMT gateway performs a reverse DNS lookup for the AMTRELAY RRType by sending an
AMTRELAY RRType query for the reverse IP domain name for the sender's source IP address
(the S from the (S,G)).

The DNS resolver for the AMT gateway uses ordinary DNS recursive resolution until it has
the authoritative result that the content provider conﬁgured, which informs the AMT
gateway that the relay address is 2001:db8::c:f.

4.

The AMT gateway performs AMT handshakes with the AMT relay as described in
[RFC7450]
(S,G).

, then forwards a membership report to the relay, indicating subscription to the

Section 4 of

5.

The relay propagates the join through its network toward the sender and then forwards the
appropriate AMT-encapsulated traﬃc to the gateway, which decapsulates and forwards it as
a native multicast through its downstream network to the end user.

In the case of an IPv4 (S,G), the only diﬀerence in the AMT relay discovery process is the use of
the in-addr.arpa reverse IP domain name, as described in
in6.arpa domain name. For example, if the (S,G) is (198.51.100.12, 232.252.0.2), the reverse IP
FQDN for the AMTRELAY query would be "12.100.51.198.in-addr.arpa.".

Section 3.5 of [RFC1035]

, instead of the

Note that the address family of the AMT tunnel is independent of the address family for the
multicast traﬃc.

2.3.  Example Deployments

2.3.1.  Example Receiving Networks

2.3.1.1.  Internet Service Provider

One example of a receiving network is an Internet Service Provider (ISP) that oﬀers multicast
ingest services to its subscribers, illustrated in Figure 3.

In the example network below, subscribers can join (S,G)s with MLDv2 or IGMPv3 as described in
, and the AMT gateway in this ISP can receive and forward multicast traﬃc from one of
[RFC4604]
the example sending networks in Section 2.3.2 by discovering the appropriate AMT relays with a
DNS lookup for the AMTRELAY RR with the reverse IP of the source in the (S,G).

Holland

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

                     Internet
                  ^            ^      Multicast-enabled
                  |            |      Receiving Network
           +------|------------|-------------------------+
           |      |            |                         |
           |  +--------+   +--------+    +=========+     |
           |  | Border |---| Border |    |   AMT   |     |
           |  | Router |   | Router |    | gateway |     |
           |  +--------+   +--------+    +=========+     |
           |      |            |              |          |
           |      +-----+------+-----------+--+          |
           |            |                  |             |
           |      +-------------+    +-------------+     |
           |      | Agg Routers | .. | Agg Routers |     |
           |      +-------------+    +-------------+     |
           |            /     \ \     /         \        |
           | +---------------+         +---------------+ |
           | |Access Systems | ....... |Access Systems | |
           | |(CMTS/OLT/etc.)|         |(CMTS/OLT/etc.)| |
           | +---------------+         +---------------+ |
           |        |                        |           |
           +--------|------------------------|-----------+
                    |                        |
              +---+-+-+---+---+        +---+-+-+---+---+
              |   |   |   |   |        |   |   |   |   |
             /-\ /-\ /-\ /-\ /-\      /-\ /-\ /-\ /-\ /-\
             |_| |_| |_| |_| |_|      |_| |_| |_| |_| |_|

                            Subscribers

Figure 3: Receiving ISP Example

2.3.1.2.  Small Oﬃce

Another example receiving network is a small branch oﬃce that regularly accesses some
multicast content, illustrated in Figure 4.

This oﬃce has desktop devices that need to receive some multicast traﬃc, so an AMT gateway
runs on a LAN with these devices to pull traﬃc in through a non-multicast next hop.

The oﬃce also hosts some mobile devices that have AMT gateway instances embedded inside
apps in order to receive multicast traﬃc over their non-multicast wireless LAN. (Note that the
"Legacy Router" is a simpliﬁcation that's meant to describe a variety of possible conditions; for
example, it could be a device providing a split-tunnel VPN as described in
excluding multicast traﬃc for a VPN tunnel, rather than a device that is incapable of multicast
forwarding.)

[RFC7359]

, deliberately

Holland

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

                  Internet
               (non-multicast)
                      ^
                      |                  Office Network
           +----------|----------------------------------+
           |          |                                  |
           |    +---------------+ (Wifi)   Mobile apps   |
           |    | Modem+ | Wifi | - - - -  w/ embedded   |
           |    | Router |  AP  |          AMT gateways  |
           |    +---------------+                        |
           |          |                                  |
           |          |                                  |
           |     +----------------+                      |
           |     | Legacy Router  |                      |
           |     |   (unicast)    |                      |
           |     +----------------+                      |
           |      /        |      \                      |
           |     /         |       \                     |
           | +--------+ +--------+ +--------+=========+  |
           | | Phones | | ConfRm | | Desks  |   AMT   |  |
           | | subnet | | subnet | | subnet | gateway |  |
           | +--------+ +--------+ +--------+=========+  |
           |                                             |
           +---------------------------------------------+

Figure 4: Small O�ce (No Multicast Up)

By adding an AMT relay to this oﬃce network as in Figure 5, it's possible to make use of multicast
services from the example multicast-capable ISP in Section 2.3.1.1.

Holland

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

            Multicast-capable ISP
                      ^
                      |                  Office Network
           +----------|----------------------------------+
           |          |                                  |
           |    +---------------+ (Wifi)   Mobile apps   |
           |    | Modem+ | Wifi | - - - -  w/ embedded   |
           |    | Router |  AP  |          AMT gateways  |
           |    +---------------+                        |
           |          |               +=======+          |
           |          +---Wired LAN---|  AMT  |          |
           |          |               | relay |          |
           |     +----------------+   +=======+          |
           |     | Legacy Router  |                      |
           |     |   (unicast)    |                      |
           |     +----------------+                      |
           |      /        |      \                      |
           |     /         |       \                     |
           | +--------+ +--------+ +--------+=========+  |
           | | Phones | | ConfRm | | Desks  |   AMT   |  |
           | | subnet | | subnet | | subnet | gateway |  |
           | +--------+ +--------+ +--------+=========+  |
           |                                             |
           +---------------------------------------------+

Figure 5: Small O�ce Example

When multicast-capable networks are chained like this, with a network like the one in Figure 5
receiving Internet services from a multicast-capable network like the one in Figure 3, it's
important for AMT gateways to reach the more local AMT relay in order to avoid accidentally
tunneling multicast traﬃc from a more distant AMT relay with unicast and failing to utilize the
multicast transport capabilities of the network in Figure 3.

2.3.2.  Example Sending Networks

2.3.2.1.  Sender-Controlled Relays

When a sender network is also operating AMT relays to distribute multicast traﬃc, as in Figure 6,
each address could appear as an AMTRELAY RR for the reverse IP of the sender. Alternately, one
or more domain names could appear in AMTRELAY RRs, and the AMT relay addresses can be
discovered by ﬁnding A or AAAA records from those domain names.

Holland

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

                                       Sender Network
                 +-----------------------------------+
                 |                                   |
                 | +--------+   +=======+  +=======+ |
                 | | Sender |   |  AMT  |  |  AMT  | |
                 | +--------+   | relay |  | relay | |
                 |     |        +=======+  +=======+ |
                 |     |            |          |     |
                 |     +-----+------+----------+     |
                 |           |                       |
                 +-----------|-----------------------+
                             v
                          Internet
                       (non-multicast)

Figure 6: Small O�ce Example

2.3.2.2.  Provider-Controlled Relays

When an ISP oﬀers a service to transmit outbound multicast traﬃc through a forwarding
network, it might also oﬀer AMT relays in order to reach receivers without multicast
connectivity to the forwarding network, as in Figure 7. In this case, it's recommended that the ISP
also provide at least one domain name for the AMT relays for use with the AMTRELAY RR.

When the sender wishes to use the relays provided by the ISP for forwarding multicast traﬃc, an
AMTRELAY RR should be conﬁgured to use the domain name provided by the ISP to allow for
address reassignment of the relays without forcing the sender to reconﬁgure the corresponding
AMTRELAY RRs.

Holland

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

                   +--------+
                   | Sender |
                   +---+----+        Multicast-enabled
                       |              Sending Network
           +-----------|-------------------------------+
           |           v                               |
           |    +------------+     +=======+ +=======+ |
           |    | Agg Router |     |  AMT  | |  AMT  | |
           |    +------------+     | relay | | relay | |
           |           |           +=======+ +=======+ |
           |           |               |         |     |
           |     +-----+------+--------+---------+     |
           |     |            |                        |
           | +--------+   +--------+                   |
           | | Border |---| Border |                   |
           | | Router |   | Router |                   |
           | +--------+   +--------+                   |
           +-----|------------|------------------------+
                 |            |
                 v            v
                    Internet
                 (non-multicast)

Figure 7: Sending ISP Example

3.  Relay Discovery Operation

3.1.  Optimal Relay Selection

3.1.1.  Overview

The reverse source IP DNS query of an AMTRELAY RR is a good way for a gateway to discover a
relay that is known to the sender.

However, it is *not* necessarily a good way to discover the best relay for that gateway to use,
because the RR will only provide information about relays known to the source.

If there is an upstream relay in a network that is topologically closer to the gateway and is able to
receive and forward multicast traﬃc from the sender, that relay is better for the gateway to use
since more of the network path uses native multicast, allowing more chances for packet
replication. But since that relay is not known to the sender, it won't be advertised in the sender's
reverse IP DNS record. An example network that illustrates this scenario is outlined in Figure 5
from Section 2.3.1.2.

It's only appropriate for an AMT gateway to discover an AMT relay by querying an AMTRELAY
RR owned by a sender when all of these conditions are met:

1.

The gateway needs to propagate a join of an (S,G) over AMT because in the gateway's
network, no RPF next hop toward the source can propagate a native multicast join of the
(S,G);

Holland

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

2.

The gateway is not already connected to a relay that forwards multicast traﬃc from the
source of the (S,G);

3.

The gateway is not conﬁgured to use a particular IP address for AMT discovery, or a relay
discovered with that IP is not able to forward traﬃc from the source of the (S,G);

4.

5.

The gateway is not able to ﬁnd an upstream AMT relay with DNS-based Service Discovery
(DNS-SD)
discovered this way is not able to forward traﬃc from the source of the (S,G) (as described in
Section 3.3.4.1 and 3.3.5); and

 using "_amt._udp" as the Service section of the queries, or a relay

[RFC6763]

The gateway is not able to ﬁnd an upstream AMT relay with the well-known anycast
addresses from

Section 7 of [RFC7450]

.

When all of the above conditions are met, the gateway has no path within its local network that
can receive multicast traﬃc from the source IP of the (S,G).

In this situation, the best way to ﬁnd a relay that can forward the required traﬃc is to use
information that comes from the operator of the sender. When the sender has conﬁgured an
AMTRELAY RR, gateways can use the DRIAD mechanism deﬁned in this document to discover the
relay information provided by the sender.

Note that the above conditions are designed to prefer the use of a local AMT relay if one can be
discovered. However, note also that the network upstream of the locally discovered relay would
still need to receive traﬃc from the sender of the (S,G) in order to forward it. Therefore, unless
the upstream network contains the sender or has a multicast-capable peering with a network
that can forward traﬃc from the sender, the upstream network might still use AMT to ingest the
traﬃc from a network that can receive traﬃc from the sender. If this is the case, the upstream
AMT gateway could still rely on the AMTRELAY RR provided by the sender, even though the
AMTRELAY RR is not directly used by gateways topologically closer to the receivers. For a
concrete example of such a situation, consider the network in Figure 5 connected as one of the
customers to the network in Figure 3.

3.1.2.  Preference Ordering

This section deﬁnes a preference ordering for relay addresses during the relay discovery process.
Gateways are encouraged to implement a Happy Eyeballs
relays concurrently (see Section 3.2), but even gateways that do not implement a Happy Eyeballs
algorithm

 use this ordering, except as noted.

 algorithm to try candidate

[RFC8305]

SHOULD

When establishing an AMT tunnel to forward multicast data, it's very important for the discovery
process to prioritize network topology considerations ahead of address selection considerations
in order to gain the packet replication beneﬁts from using multicast instead of unicast tunneling
in the multicast-capable portions of the network path.

The intent of the advice and requirements in this section is to describe how a gateway should
make use of the concurrency provided by a Happy Eyeballs algorithm to reduce the join latency
while still prioritizing network eﬃciency considerations over address selection considerations.

Holland

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

Section 4 of [RFC8305]
Destination Address Selection deﬁned in
requirement is superseded in the AMT discovery use case by the following considerations:

 requires a Happy Eyeballs algorithm to sort the addresses with the

Section 6 of [RFC6724]

, but for the above reasons, that

•

Prefer Local Relays

[RFC6763]
Figure 5 and Section 2.3.1.2 provide a motivating example to prefer DNS-SD
discovery strictly ahead of using the AMTRELAY RR controlled by the sender for AMT
discovery.

 for

RECOMMENDED

For this reason, it's
using DNS Service Discovery (DNS-SD)
chosen as described in
in preference to AMT relays discoverable via the mechanism deﬁned in this document
(DRIAD).

 for _amt._udp.<domain> (with <domain>
) and use the AMT relays discovered that way

 that AMT gateways by default perform service discovery

Section 11 of [RFC6763]

[RFC6763]

•

Prefer Relays Managed by the Containing Network

When no local relay is discoverable with DNS-SD, it still may be the case that a relay local to
the receiver is operated by the network providing transit services to the receiver.

In this case, when the network cannot make the relay discoverable via DNS-SD, the network
SHOULD
discovery traﬃc to the relay most appropriate to the receiver's gateway.

 use the well-known anycast addresses from

Section 7 of [RFC7450]

 to route

Accordingly, the gateway
 by default discover a relay with the well-known AMT
anycast addresses as the next-best option after DNS-SD when searching for a local relay.

SHOULD

•

Let Sender Manage Relay Provisioning

A related motivating example is provided by considering a sender whose traﬃc can be
forwarded by relays in a sender-controlled network like Figure 6 in Section 2.3.2.1 and by
relays in a provider-controlled network like Figure 7 in Section 2.3.2.2, with diﬀerent cost
and scalability proﬁles for the diﬀerent options.

In this example about the sending-side network, the precedence ﬁeld described in Section
4.2.1 is a critical method of control so that senders can provide the appropriate guidance to
gateways during the discovery process in order to manage load and failover scenarios in a
manner that operates well with the sender's provisioning strategy for horizontal scaling of
AMT relays.

Therefore, after DNS-SD, the precedence from the RR
MUST
ahead of the Destination Address Selection ordering from
relay IPs with the same precedence are directly compared according to the Destination
Address Selection ordering.

 be used for sorting preference
Section 6 of [RFC6724]

 so that only

Accordingly, AMT gateways

SHOULD

 by default prefer relays in this order:

1.

DNS-SD

Holland

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

2.

Anycast addresses from

Section 7 of [RFC7450]

3.

DRIAD

This default behavior
is more appropriate for the gateway within its network.

MAY

 be overridden by administrative conﬁguration where other behavior

Among relay addresses that have an equivalent preference as described above, a Happy Eyeballs
algorithm for AMT
[RFC6724]
.

 use the Destination Address Selection deﬁned in

Section 6 of

SHOULD

Among relay addresses that still have an equivalent preference after the above orderings, a
gateway
preference ordering in order to support load balancing by DNS conﬁgurations that provide many
relay options.

 make a non-deterministic choice (such as a pseudorandom selection) for relay

SHOULD

MAY

The gateway
 introduce a bias in the non-deterministic choice according to information that
indicates expected beneﬁts from selecting some relays in preference to others. Details about the
structure and collection of this information are out of scope for this document but could, for
example, be obtained by out-of-band methods or from a historical record about network
topology, timing information, or the response to a probing mechanism. A gateway in possession
of such information

 use it to prefer topologically closer relays.

MAY

Within the above constraints, gateways
[RFC8305]
candidate relay addresses.

, such as the address family interleaving strategies, to produce a ﬁnal ordering of

MAY

 make use of other considerations from

Section 4 of

Note also that certain relay addresses might be excluded from consideration by the hold-down
timers described in Section 3.3.4.1 or 3.3.5. These relays constitute "unusable destinations" under
Rule 1 of the Destination Address Selection and are also not part of the superseding
considerations described above.

The discovery and connection process for the relay addresses in the above described ordering
 operate in parallel, subject to delays prescribed by the Happy Eyeballs requirements
MAY
described in

 for successively launched concurrent connection attempts.

Section 5 of [RFC8305]

3.1.3.  Connecting to Multiple Relays

In some deployments, it may be useful for a gateway to connect to multiple upstream relays and
subscribe to the same traﬃc in order to support an active/active failover model. A gateway
SHOULD NOT

 be conﬁgured to do so without guaranteeing that adequate bandwidth is available.

A gateway conﬁgured to do this
 still use the same preference-ordering logic from
Section 3.1.2 for each connection. (Note that this ordering allows for overriding by explicit
administrative conﬁguration where required.)

SHOULD

Holland

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

3.2.  Happy Eyeballs

3.2.1.  Overview

[RFC8305]

Often, multiple choices of relay will exist for a gateway using DRIAD for relay discovery. Happy
Eyeballs
 provides a widely deployed and generalizable strategy for probing multiple
possible connections in parallel. Therefore, it is
implement a Happy Eyeballs algorithm to support fast discovery of the most preferred available
relay by probing multiple relays concurrently.

 that DRIAD-capable gateways

RECOMMENDED

The parallel discovery logic of a Happy Eyeballs algorithm serves to reduce join latency for the
initial join of an SSM channel. This section and the preference ordering of relays deﬁned in
Section 3.1.2 together provide guidance on use of a Happy Eyeballs algorithm for the case of
establishing AMT connections.

Note that according to the deﬁnition in Section 3.2.3 of this document, establishing the
connection occurs before sending a membership report. As described in
only one of the successful connections will be used, and the others are all canceled or ignored. In
the context of an AMT connection, this means the gateway will send the membership reports that
subscribe to traﬃc only for the chosen connection after the Happy Eyeballs algorithm resolves.

,
Section 5 of [RFC8305]

3.2.2.  Algorithm Guidelines

, a
During the "Initiation of asynchronous DNS queries" phase described in
gateway attempts to resolve the domain names listed in Section 3.1. This consists of resolving the
SRV queries for DNS-SD domains for the AMT service, as well as the AMTRELAY query for the
reverse IP domain deﬁned in this document.

Section 3 of [RFC8305]

Each of the SRV and AMTRELAY responses might contain:

•

one or more IP addresses (as with type 1 or type 2 AMTRELAY responses or when the SRV
Additional Data section of the SRV response contains the address records for the target, as
urged by

[RFC2782]

), or

•

only domain names (as with type 3 responses from Section 4.2.3 or an SRV response without
an additional data section).

When present, IP addresses in the initial response provide resolved destination address
candidates for the "Sorting of resolved destination addresses" phase described in
[RFC8305]
set of queries for AAAA and A records, whose responses provide the candidate resolved
destination addresses.

), whereas domain names without IP addresses in the initial response result in another

Section 4 of

Since the SRV or AMTRELAY responses don't have a bound on the count of queries that might be
generated aside from the bounds imposed by the DNS resolver, it's important for the gateway to
provide a rate limit on the DNS queries. The DNS query functionality is expected to follow
ordinary standards and best practices for DNS clients. A gateway
implementation that does so and

 rely on that client's rate-limiting logic to avoid issuing

 use an existing DNS client

MAY

MAY

Holland

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

excessive queries. Otherwise, a gateway
default settings
(though this

SHOULD NOT

MAY

MUST

 provide a rate limit for the DNS queries, and its

 permit more than 10 queries for any 100-millisecond period

 be overridable by the administrative conﬁguration).

As the resolved IP addresses arrive, the Happy Eyeballs algorithm sorts them according to the
requirements and recommendations given in Section 3.1.2 and attempts connections with the
corresponding relays under the algorithm restrictions and guidelines given in
"Establishment of one connection, which cancels all other attempts" phase. As described in
Section 3 of [RFC8305]
not wait for lagging DNS responses.

, DNS resolution is treated as asynchronous, and connection initiation does

[RFC8305]

 for the

3.2.3.  Connection Deﬁnition

Section 5 of [RFC8305]
when the TCP handshake completes".

 non-normatively describes a successful connection attempt as "generally

There is no normative deﬁnition of a connection in the AMT speciﬁcation
no TCP connection involved in an AMT tunnel.

[RFC7450]

, and there is

However, the concept of an AMT connection in the context of a Happy Eyeballs algorithm is a
useful one, and so this section provides the following normative deﬁnition:

•

An AMT connection is established successfully when the gateway receives from a newly
discovered relay a valid Membership Query message (
not have the L ﬂag set.

Section 5.1.4 of [RFC7450]

) that does

See Section 3.3.5 of this document for further information about the relevance of the L ﬂag to the
establishment of a Happy Eyeballs connection. See Section 3.3.4 for an overview of how to
respond if the connection does not provide multicast connectivity to the source.

To "cancel" this kind of AMT connection for the Happy Eyeballs algorithm, a gateway that has not
sent a membership report with a subscription would simply stop sending AMT packets for that
connection. A gateway only sends a membership report to a connection it has chosen as the most
preferred available connection.

3.3.  Guidelines for Restarting Discovery

3.3.1.  Overview

It's expected that gateways deployed in diﬀerent environments will use a variety of heuristics to
decide when it's appropriate to restart the relay discovery process in order to meet diﬀerent
performance goals (for example, to fulﬁll diﬀerent kinds of service level agreements).

In general, restarting the discovery process is always safe for the gateway and relay during any
of the events listed in this section but may cause a disruption in the forwarded traﬃc if the
discovery process results in choosing a diﬀerent relay because this changes the RPF forwarding
tree for the multicast traﬃc upstream of the gateway. This is likely to result in some dropped or
duplicated packets from channels actively being tunneled from the old relay to the gateway.

Holland

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

The degree of impact on the traﬃc from choosing a diﬀerent relay may depend on network
conditions between the gateway and the new relay, as well as the network conditions and
topology between the sender and the new relay, as this may cause the relay to propagate a new
RPF join toward the sender.

Balancing the expected impact on the tunneled traﬃc against likely or observed problems with
an existing connection to the relay is the goal of the heuristics that gateways use to determine
when to restart the discovery process.

The non-normative advice in this section should be treated as guidelines to operators and
implementors working with AMT systems that can use DRIAD as part of the relay discovery
process.

3.3.2.  Updates to Restarting Events

Section 5.2.3.4.1 of [RFC7450]
discovery procedure.

 lists several events that may cause a gateway to start or restart the

This document provides some updates and recommendations regarding the handling of these
and similar events. The ﬁrst ﬁve events are copied here and numbered for easier reference, and
the remaining four events are newly added for consideration in this document:

1.

When a gateway pseudo-interface is started (enabled).

2.

When the gateway wishes to report a group subscription when none currently exists.

3.

Before sending the next Request message in a membership update cycle.

4.

After the gateway fails to receive a response to a Request message.

5.

After the gateway receives a Membership Query message with the L ﬂag set to 1.

6.

When the gateway wishes to report an (S,G) subscription with a source address that does not
currently have other group subscriptions.

7.

When there is a network change detected; for example, when a gateway is operating inside
an end user device or application and the device joins a diﬀerent network or when the
domain portion of a DNS-SD domain name changes in response to a DHCP message or
administrative conﬁguration.

8.

When substantial loss, persistent congestion, or network overload is detected in the stream
of AMT packets from a relay.

9.

When the gateway has reported one or more (S,G) subscriptions but no traﬃc is received
from the source for some timeout (see Section 3.3.4.1).

This list is not exhaustive, nor are any of the listed events strictly required to always force a
restart of the discovery process.

Note that during event #1, a gateway may use DNS-SD but does not have suﬃcient information to
use DRIAD, since no source is known.

Holland

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

3.3.3.  Tunnel Stability

In general, subscribers to active traﬃc ﬂows that are being forwarded by an AMT gateway are
less likely to experience a degradation in service (for example, from missing or duplicated
packets) when the gateway continues using the same relay as long as the relay is not overloaded
and the network conditions remain stable.

Therefore, gateways
routine cases of event #3 (sending a new Request message), since it occurs frequently in normal
operation.

 avoid performing a full restart of the discovery process during

SHOULD

However, see Sections 3.3.4, 3.3.6, and 3.3.4.3 for more information about exceptional cases when
it may be appropriate to use event #3.

3.3.4.  Traﬃc Health

3.3.4.1.  Absence of Traﬃc

If a gateway indicates one or more (S,G) subscriptions in a Membership Update message but no
traﬃc for any of the (S,G)s is received in a reasonable time, it's appropriate for the gateway to
restart the discovery process.

If the gateway restarts the discovery process multiple times consecutively for this reason, the
timeout period

 be adjusted to provide a random exponential back-oﬀ.

SHOULD

RECOMMENDED

The
* 2^retry_count, maximum_timeout)], with a
RECOMMENDED
mapping timeout described in

[RFC4787]

).

 timeout is a random value in the range [initial_timeout, MIN(initial_timeout
 initial_timeout of 4 seconds and a

RECOMMENDED

 maximum_timeout of 120 seconds (which is the recommended minimum NAT

Section 5.2.3.4.3 of [RFC7450]

Note that the recommended initial_timeout is larger than the initial timeout recommended in the
similar algorithm from
propagation in the sending network. Although the timeout values may be administratively
adjusted to support performance requirements, operators are advised to consider the possibility
of join propagation delays between the sender and the relay when choosing an appropriate
timeout value.

. This is to provide time for RPF Join

Gateways restarting the discovery process because of an absence of traﬃc
timer that removes this relay from consideration during subsequent rounds of discovery while
active. The hold-down

 last for no less than 3 minutes and no more than 10 minutes.

 use a hold-down

SHOULD

MUST

3.3.4.2.  Loss and Congestion

In some gateway deployments, it is also feasible to monitor the health of traﬃc ﬂows through the
gateway -- for example, by detecting the rate of packet loss by communicating out of band with
receivers or monitoring the packets of known protocols with sequence numbers. Where feasible,
it's encouraged for gateways to use such traﬃc health information to trigger a restart of the
discovery process during event #3 (before sending a new Request message).

Holland

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

However, if a transient network event that aﬀects the tunneled multicast stream -- as opposed to
an event that aﬀects the tunnel connection between the relay and gateway -- occurs, poor health
detection could be triggered for many gateways simultaneously. In this situation, adding a
random delay to avoid synchronized rediscovery by many gateways is recommended.

The span of the random portion of the delay should be no less than 10 seconds by default but
may be administratively conﬁgured to support diﬀerent performance requirements.

3.3.4.3.  Ancient Discovery Information

In most cases, a gateway actively receiving healthy traﬃc from a relay that has not indicated load
with the L ﬂag should prefer to remain connected to the same relay, as described in Section 3.3.3.

However, a relay that appears healthy but has been forwarding traﬃc for days or weeks may
have an increased chance of becoming unstable. Gateways may beneﬁt from restarting the
discovery process during event #3 (before sending a Request message) after the expiration of a
long-term timeout on the order of multiple hours or even days in some deployments.

It may be beneﬁcial for such timers to consider the amount of traﬃc currently being forwarded
and to give a higher probability of restarting discovery during periods with an unusually low
data rate to reduce the impact on active traﬃc while still avoiding relying on the results of a very
old discovery.

Other issues may also be worth considering as part of this heuristic; for example, if the DNS
expiry time of the record that was used to discover the current relay has not passed, the long-
term timer might be restarted without restarting the discovery process.

3.3.5.  Relay Loaded or Shutting Down

The L ﬂag (see
overloading or a graceful shutdown to gateways.

Section 5.1.4.4 of [RFC7450]

) is the preferred mechanism for a relay to signal

A gateway that supports handling of the L ﬂag should generally restart the discovery process
when it processes a Membership Query packet with the L ﬂag set. If an L ﬂag is received while a
concurrent Happy Eyeballs discovery process is underway for multiple candidate relays (Section
3.2), the relay sending the L ﬂag

 be considered for the relay selection.

SHOULD NOT

RECOMMENDED

It is also
with approximately a 10-minute hold-down. Gateways
 treat this hold-down timer in the
same way as the hold-down in Section 3.3.4.1 so that the relay is removed from consideration for
subsequent short-term rounds of discovery.

 that gateways avoid choosing a relay that has recently sent an L ﬂag,
SHOULD

3.3.6.  Relay Discovery Messages vs. Restarting Discovery

All AMT relays are required by
).
in
Section 5.3.3.2 of [RFC7450]

[RFC7450]

 to support handling of Relay Discovery messages (e.g.,

So a gateway with an existing connection to a relay can send a Relay Discovery message to the
unicast address of that AMT relay. Under stable conditions with an unloaded relay, it's expected
that the relay will return its own unicast address in the Relay Advertisement in response to such

Holland

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

a Relay Discovery message. Since this will not result in the gateway changing to another relay
unless the relay directs the gateway away, this is a reasonable exception to the advice against
handling event #3 described in Section 3.3.3.

This behavior is discouraged for gateways that do support the L ﬂag to avoid sending
unnecessary packets over the network.

However, gateways that do not support the L ﬂag may be able to avoid a disruption in the
forwarded traﬃc by sending such Relay Discovery messages regularly. When a relay is under
load or has started a graceful shutdown, it may respond with a diﬀerent relay address, which the
gateway can use to connect to a diﬀerent relay. This kind of coordinated handoﬀ will likely result
in a smaller disruption to the traﬃc than if the relay simply stops responding to Request
messages and stops forwarding traﬃc.

This style of Relay Discovery message (one sent to the unicast address of a relay that's already
forwarding traﬃc to this gateway)
discovery process. It is
not support the L ﬂag, sending this message during event #3 may help mitigate service
degradation when relays become unstable.

 be considered a full restart of the relay
 that gateways support the L ﬂag, but for gateways that do

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD NOT

3.3.7.  Independent Discovery per Traﬃc Source

Relays discovered via the AMTRELAY RR are source-speciﬁc relay addresses and may use
diﬀerent pseudo-interfaces from each other and from relays discovered via DNS-SD or via a non-
source-speciﬁc address, as described in

Section 4.1.2.1 of [RFC7450]

.

Restarting the discovery process for one pseudo-interface does not require restarting the
discovery process for other pseudo-interfaces. Gateway heuristics about restarting the discovery
process should operate independently for diﬀerent tunnels to relays when responding to events
that are speciﬁc to the diﬀerent tunnels.

3.4.  DNS Conﬁguration

Often, an AMT gateway will only have access to the source and group IP addresses of the desired
traﬃc and will not know any other name for the source of the traﬃc. Because of this, typically,
the best way of looking up AMTRELAY RRs will be by using the source IP address as an index into
one of the reverse mapping trees (in-addr.arpa for IPv4, as described in
,
or ip6.arpa for IPv6, as described in

Section 2.5 of [RFC3596]

Section 3.5 of [RFC1035]

).

MAY

RECOMMENDED

 that AMTRELAY RRs be added to reverse IP zones as appropriate.

 also appear in other zones, since this may be necessary to perform

Therefore, it is
AMTRELAY records
delegation from the reverse zones (see, for example,
enabled by this document requires a reverse IP mapping for the source from an (S,G) in order to
be useful to most AMT gateways. This document does not deﬁne semantics for the use of
AMTRELAY records obtained in a way other than by a reverse IP lookup.

Section 5.2 of [RFC2317]

), but the use case

Holland

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

When performing the AMTRELAY RR lookup, any CNAMEs or DNAMEs found
This is necessary to support zone delegation. Some examples outlining this need are described in
.
[RFC2317]

 be followed.

MUST

See Sections 4 and 4.3 for a detailed explanation of the contents of a DNS zone ﬁle.

3.5.  Waiting for DNS Resolution

DNS query functionality is expected to follow ordinary standards and best practices for DNS
clients. A gateway
that client's retry logic to determine the timeouts between retries.

 use an existing DNS client implementation that does so and

MAY

MAY

 rely on

Otherwise, a gateway
response within some timeout period. If the gateway retries multiple times, the timeout period
SHOULD

 resend a DNS query if it does not receive an appropriate DNS

 be adjusted to provide a random exponential back-oﬀ.

MAY

As with the waiting process for the Relay Advertisement message from
[RFC7450]
(initial_timeout * 2^retry_count, maximum_timeout)], with a
second and a

 maximum_timeout of 120 seconds.

RECOMMENDED

RECOMMENDED

, the

 timeout is a random value in the range [initial_timeout, MIN

Section 5.2.3.4.3 of

RECOMMENDED

 initial_timeout of 1

4.  AMTRELAY Resource Record Deﬁnition

4.1.  AMTRELAY RRType

The AMTRELAY RRType has the mnemonic AMTRELAY and type code 260 (decimal).

The AMTRELAY RR is class independent.

4.2.  AMTRELAY RData Format

The AMTRELAY RData consists of an 8-bit precedence ﬁeld, a 1-bit "Discovery Optional" ﬁeld, a 7-
bit type ﬁeld, and a variable length relay ﬁeld.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   precedence  |D|    type     |                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               +
~                            relay                              ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

4.2.1.  RData Format - Precedence

This is an 8-bit precedence for this record. It is interpreted in the same way as the PREFERENCE
ﬁeld described in

Section 3.3.9 of [RFC1035]

.

Relays listed in AMTRELAY records with a lower value for precedence are to be attempted ﬁrst.

Holland

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

4.2.2.  RData Format - Discovery Optional (D-bit)

The D-bit is a "Discovery Optional" ﬂag.

If the D-bit is set to 0, a gateway using this RR
Section 4.2.1.1 of [RFC7450]

 rather than directly sending an AMT Request message to the relay.

MUST

 perform AMT relay discovery as described in

MUST

 receive an AMT Relay Advertisement message (

) for an address before sending an AMT Request message (

That is, the gateway
Section 5.1.2 of
[RFC7450]
Section 5.1.3 of [RFC7450]
that address. Before receiving the Relay Advertisement message, this record has only indicated
that the address can be used for AMT relay discovery, not for a Request message. This is
necessary for devices that are not fully functional AMT relays but rather load balancers or
brokers, as mentioned in

.
Section 4.2.1.1 of [RFC7450]

) to

If the D-bit is set to 1, the gateway
relay address without ﬁrst sending an AMT Discovery message.

MAY

 send an AMT Request message directly to the discovered

This bit should be set according to advice from the AMT relay operator. The D-bit
MUST
zero when no information is available from the AMT relay operator about its suitability.

 be set to

4.2.3.  RData Format - Type

The type ﬁeld indicates the format of the information that is stored in the relay ﬁeld.

The following values are deﬁned:

•

type = 0: The relay ﬁeld is empty (0 bytes).

•

type = 1: The relay ﬁeld contains a 4-octet IPv4 address.

•

type = 2: The relay ﬁeld contains a 16-octet IPv6 address.

•

type = 3: The relay ﬁeld contains a wire-encoded domain name. The wire-encoded format is
self-describing, so the length is implicit. The domain name
Section 3.3 of [RFC1035]

Section 4 of [RFC3597]

 be compressed (see

MUST NOT

 and

).

RRs with an undeﬁned value in the Type ﬁeld
for AMT relay discovery.

SHOULD NOT

 be considered by receiving gateways

4.2.4.  RData Format - Relay

The relay ﬁeld is the address or domain name of the AMT relay. It is formatted according to the
type ﬁeld.

When the type ﬁeld is 0, the length of the relay ﬁeld is 0, and it indicates that no AMT relay
should be used for multicast traﬃc from this source.

When the type ﬁeld is 1, the length of the relay ﬁeld is 4 octets, and a 32-bit IPv4 address is
present. This is an IPv4 address as described in
in network byte order.

Section 3.4.1 of [RFC1035]

. This is a 32-bit number

Holland

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

When the type ﬁeld is 2, the length of the relay ﬁeld is 16 octets, and a 128-bit IPv6 address is
present. This is an IPv6 address as described in
in network byte order.

Section 2.2 of [RFC3596]

. This is a 128-bit number

When the type ﬁeld is 3, the relay ﬁeld is a normal wire-encoded domain name, as described in
Section 3.3 of [RFC1035]
MUST NOT
be used.

. For the reasons given in

Section 4 of [RFC3597]

, compression

For a type 3 record, the D-bit and preference ﬁelds carry over to all A or AAAA records for the
domain name. There is no diﬀerence in the result of the discovery process when it's obtained by
type 1 or type 2 AMTRELAY records with identical D-bit and preference ﬁelds vs. when the result
is obtained by a type 3 AMTRELAY record that resolves to the same set of IPv4 and IPv6
addresses via A and AAAA lookups.

4.3.  AMTRELAY Record Presentation Format

4.3.1.  Representation of AMTRELAY RRs

AMTRELAY RRs may appear in a zone data master ﬁle. The precedence, D-bit, relay type, and
relay ﬁelds are

REQUIRED

.

If the relay type ﬁeld is 0, the relay ﬁeld

MUST

 be ".".

The presentation for the record is as follows:

  IN AMTRELAY precedence D-bit type relay

4.3.2.  Examples

In a DNS authoritative nameserver that understands the AMTRELAY type, the zone might contain
a set of entries like this:

    $ORIGIN 100.51.198.in-addr.arpa.
    12     IN AMTRELAY  10 0 1 203.0.113.15
    12     IN AMTRELAY  10 0 2 2001:db8::15
    12     IN AMTRELAY 128 1 3 amtrelays.example.com.

This conﬁguration advertises an IPv4 discovery address, an IPv6 discovery address, and a
domain name for AMT relays that can receive traﬃc from the source 198.51.100.12. The IPv4 and
IPv6 addresses are conﬁgured with a D-bit of 0 (meaning discovery is mandatory, as described in
Section 4.2.2) and a precedence 10 (meaning they're preferred ahead of the last entry, which has
precedence 128).

Holland

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

For zone ﬁles in name servers that don't support the AMTRELAY RRType natively, it's possible to
use the format for unknown RR types, as described in
the AMTRELAY entries in the example above with the entries below:

. This approach would replace

[RFC3597]

    10   IN TYPE260  \# (
           6  ; length
           0a ; precedence=10
           01 ; D=0, relay type=1, an IPv4 address
           cb00710f ) ; 203.0.113.15
    10   IN TYPE260  \# (
           18 ; length
           0a ; precedence=10
           02 ; D=0, relay type=2, an IPv6 address
           20010db800000000000000000000000f ) ; 2001:db8::15
    10   IN TYPE260  \# (
           24 ; length
           80 ; precedence=128
           83 ; D=1, relay type=3, a wire-encoded domain name
         09616d7472656c617973076578616d706c6503636f6d ) ; domain name

See Appendix A for more details.

5.  IANA Considerations

This document updates the DNS "Resource Record (RR) TYPEs" registry by assigning type 260 to
the AMTRELAY record.

This document creates a new registry named "AMTRELAY Resource Record Parameters" with a
subregistry for the "Relay Type Field". The initial values in the subregistry are:

Value Description

0

1

2

3

No relay is present

A 4-byte IPv4 address is present

A 16-byte IPv6 address is present

A wire-encoded domain name is present

4-255

Unassigned

Table 2: Initial Contents of the "Relay Type Field"
Registry

Values 0, 1, 2, and 3 are further explained in Sections 4.2.3 and 4.2.4. Relay type numbers 4
through 255 can be assigned with a policy of Speciﬁcation Required (as described in

[RFC8126]

).

Holland

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

6.  Security Considerations

6.1.  Use of AMT

This document deﬁnes a mechanism that enables a more widespread and automated use of AMT,
even without access to a multicast backbone. Operators of networks and applications that
include a DRIAD-capable AMT gateway are advised to carefully consider the security
considerations in

.
Section 6 of [RFC7450]

AMT gateway operators also are encouraged to take appropriate steps to ensure the integrity of
the data received via AMT, for example, by the opportunistic use of IPsec
traﬃc received from AMT relays when IPSECKEY records
relationship with the AMT relays can be otherwise established and secured.

 are available or when a trust

[RFC4025]

[RFC4301]

 to secure

Note that AMT does not itself provide any integrity protection for Multicast Data packets (
5.1.6 of [RFC7450]
who discovers the gateway IP, the relay IP, and the relay source port for an active AMT
connection can inject multicast data packets for a joined (S,G) into the data stream if he can get
data packets delivered to the gateway IP that spoof the relay as the source.

), so absent protections like those mentioned above, even an oﬀ-path attacker

Section

6.2.  Record-Spooﬁng

 be communicated to the DNS
The AMTRELAY resource record contains information that
client without being modiﬁed. The method used to ensure the result was unmodiﬁed is up to the
client.

SHOULD

There must be a trust relationship between the end consumer of this resource record and the
DNS server. This relationship may be end-to-end DNSSEC validation or a secure connection to a
trusted DNS server that provides end-to-end safety to prevent record-spooﬁng of the response
from the trusted server. The connection to the trusted server can use any secure channel, such as
 channel, a secure local channel on the host, DNS over
with a TSIG
TLS
, or some other mechanism that provides
authentication of the RR.

 or SIG(0)
, DNS over HTTPS

[RFC2931]
[RFC8484]

[RFC7858]

[RFC2845]

If an AMT gateway accepts a maliciously crafted AMTRELAY record, the result could be a Denial
of Service or receivers processing multicast traﬃc from a source under the attacker's control.

6.3.  Congestion

Multicast traﬃc, particularly interdomain multicast traﬃc, carries some congestion risks, as
described in

Section 4 of [RFC8085]

.

Application implementors and network operators that use AMT gateways are advised to take
precautions, including monitoring of application traﬃc behavior, traﬃc authentication at ingest,
rate-limiting of multicast traﬃc, and the use of circuit-breaker techniques such as those

Holland

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

Section 3.1.10 of [RFC8085]

described in
ensure network health in the event of misconﬁguration, poorly written applications that don't
follow UDP congestion control principles, or a deliberate attack.

 and similar protections at the network level in order to

Section 4.1.4.2 of [RFC7450]
and advice about mitigating congestion risk.

 and

Section 6.1 of [RFC7450]

 provide some further considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2181]

[RFC2782]

[RFC3376]

[RFC3596]

[RFC3597]

[RFC3810]

[RFC4604]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

.

,

,
Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation" STD 13
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Elz, R. and R. Bush "Clariﬁcations to the DNS Speciﬁcation" RFC 2181 DOI
10.17487/RFC2181

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2181>

,
, July 1997,

,

.

,
Gulbrandsen, A., Vixie, P., and L. Esibov "A DNS RR for specifying the location of
services (DNS SRV)" RFC 2782 DOI 10.17487/RFC2782
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2782>

, February 2000,

<https://

,

,

.

Cain, B., Deering, S., Kouvelas, I., Fenner, B., and A. Thyagarajan "Internet Group
,
Management Protocol, Version 3" RFC 3376 DOI 10.17487/RFC3376
2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3376>

, October

.

,

,

Thomson, S., Huitema, C., Ksinant, V., and M. Souissi "DNS Extensions to Support
IP Version 6" STD 88 RFC 3596 DOI 10.17487/RFC3596
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3596>

, October 2003,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

,
Gustafsson, A. "Handling of Unknown DNS Resource Record (RR) Types" RFC
,
3597 DOI 10.17487/RFC3597
rfc3597>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2003,

,

.

Vida, R., Ed. and L. Costa, Ed. "Multicast Listener Discovery Version 2 (MLDv2)
for IPv6" RFC 3810 DOI 10.17487/RFC3810
editor.org/info/rfc3810>

<https://www.rfc-

, June 2004,

,

,

.

,

,
Holbrook, H., Cain, B., and B. Haberman "Using Internet Group Management
Protocol Version 3 (IGMPv3) and Multicast Listener Discovery Protocol Version 2
, August
,
(MLDv2) for Source-Speciﬁc Multicast" RFC 4604 DOI 10.17487/RFC4604
2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4604>

,

.

Holland

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

[RFC4607]

[RFC6724]

[RFC6763]

[RFC7450]

[RFC8085]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8305]

[RFC8499]

Holbrook, H. and B. Cain "Source-Speciﬁc Multicast for IP" RFC 4607 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4607>
10.17487/RFC4607
.

,
, August 2006,

,

,

Thaler, D., Ed., Draves, R., Matsumoto, A., and T. Chown "Default Address
Selection for Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 6724 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6724

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6724>

, September 2012,

,

,

.

Cheshire, S. and M. Krochmal "DNS-Based Service Discovery" RFC 6763 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6763>
10.17487/RFC6763
.

, February 2013,

,

,

,

Bumgardner, G. "Automatic Multicast Tunneling" RFC 7450 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7450

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7450>

,
, February 2015,

,

,

.

Eggert, L., Fairhurst, G., and G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
8085 DOI 10.17487/RFC8085
,
rfc8085>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, March 2017,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,
Schinazi, D. and T. Pauly "Happy Eyeballs Version 2: Better Connectivity Using
,
Concurrency" RFC 8305 DOI 10.17487/RFC8305
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8305>

, December 2017,

<https://

,

.

Hoﬀman, P., Sullivan, A., and K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
8499 DOI 10.17487/RFC8499
rfc8499>

, January 2019,

.

,

,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC2317]

[RFC2845]

[RFC2931]

[RFC3550]

[RFC4025]

Eidnes, H., de Groot, G., and P. Vixie "Classless IN-ADDR.ARPA delegation" BCP
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
20 RFC 2317 DOI 10.17487/RFC2317
, March 1998,
,
.
info/rfc2317>

,

,

Vixie, P., Gudmundsson, O., Eastlake 3rd, D., and B. Wellington "Secret Key
Transaction Authentication for DNS (TSIG)" RFC 2845 DOI 10.17487/RFC2845
May 2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2845>

,

,

.

,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "DNS Request and Transaction Signatures ( SIG(0)s )" RFC 2931
DOI 10.17487/RFC2931
rfc2931>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2000,

.

,

,

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
,
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

.

,

,

,

Richardson, M. "A Method for Storing IPsec Keying Material in DNS" RFC 4025
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4025

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4025>

, March 2005,

,

,

,

Holland

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

[RFC4301]

[RFC4787]

[RFC5110]

[RFC6726]

[RFC7359]

[RFC7761]

[RFC7858]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8313]

[RFC8484]

Kent, S. and K. Seo "Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol" RFC 4301
DOI 10.17487/RFC4301
rfc4301>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2005,

,

,

.

,

Audet, F., Ed. and C. Jennings "Network Address Translation (NAT) Behavioral
Requirements for Unicast UDP" BCP 127 RFC 4787 DOI 10.17487/RFC4787
January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4787>

.

,

,

,

,

,

,
Savola, P. "Overview of the Internet Multicast Routing Architecture" RFC 5110
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5110>
DOI 10.17487/RFC5110

, January 2008,

,

,

Paila, T., Walsh, R., Luby, M., Roca, V., and R. Lehtonen "FLUTE - File Delivery
, November
,
over Unidirectional Transport" RFC 6726 DOI 10.17487/RFC6726
2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6726>

.

,

,

,

Gont, F. "Layer 3 Virtual Private Network (VPN) Tunnel Traﬃc Leakages in
Dual-Stack Hosts/Networks" RFC 7359 DOI 10.17487/RFC7359
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7359>

, August 2014,

,

,

.

,

Fenner, B., Handley, M., Holbrook, H., Kouvelas, I., Parekh, R., Zhang, Z., and L.
Zheng "Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
,
Speciﬁcation (Revised)" STD 83 RFC 7761 DOI 10.17487/RFC7761
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7761>

, March 2016,

,
.

,

Hu, Z., Zhu, L., Heidemann, J., Mankin, A., Wessels, D., and P. Hoﬀman
"Speciﬁcation for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

,

.

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

Tarapore, P., Ed., Sayko, R., Shepherd, G., Eckert, T., Ed., and R. Krishnan "Use of
Multicast across Inter-domain Peering Points" BCP 213 RFC 8313 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8313

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8313>

, January 2018,

,
.

,

,

,

Hoﬀman, P. and P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI
10.17487/RFC8484

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

Appendix A.  Unknown RRType Construction

In a DNS resolver that understands the AMTRELAY type, the zone ﬁle might contain this line:

  IN AMTRELAY 128 0 3 amtrelays.example.com.

Holland

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

In order to translate this example to appear as an unknown RRType as deﬁned in
could run the following program:

[RFC3597]

, one

<CODE BEGINS>
  $ cat translate.py
  #!/usr/bin/env python3
  import sys
  name=sys.argv[1]
  wire=''
  for dn in name.split('.'):
    if len(dn) > 0:
      wire += ('%02x' % len(dn))
      wire += (''.join('%02x'%ord(x) for x in dn))
  print(len(wire)//2) + 2
  print(wire)

  $ ./translate.py amtrelays.example.com
  24
  09616d7472656c617973076578616d706c6503636f6d

<CODE ENDS>

The length of the RData and the hex string for the domain name "amtrelays.example.com" are
the outputs of this program.

The length of the wire-encoded domain name is 22, so 2 was added to that value (1 for the
precedence ﬁeld and 1 for the combined D-bit and relay type ﬁelds) to get the full length 24 of the
RData. For the 2 octets ahead of the domain name, we encode the precedence, D-bit, and relay
type ﬁelds, as described in Section 4.

This results in a zone ﬁle entry like this:

  IN TYPE260  \# ( 24 ; length
          80 ; precedence = 128
          03 ; D-bit=0, relay type=3 (wire-encoded domain name)
        09616d7472656c617973076578616d706c6503636f6d ) ; domain name

Acknowledgements

This speciﬁcation was inspired by the previous work of
Segelstein

Percy Tarapore

, and

, presented in the MBONED Working Group at IETF 93.

Doug Nortz Robert Sayko David

,

,

,

,

Jeﬀ Goldsmith Toerless Eckert Mikael Abrahamsson Lenny Giuliano Mark Andrews

Thanks to
Sandy Zheng Kyle Rose Ben Kaduk Bill Atwood Tim Chown Christian Worm Mortensen
,
Warren Kumari Dan Romanescu Bernard Aboba Carlos Pignataro Niclas Comstedt Mirja
Kühlewind Henning Rogge Eric Vyncke Barry Lieba Roman Danyliw Alissa Cooper Suresh
,
Krishnan Adam Roach

 for their very helpful reviews and comments.

Daniel Franke

,
, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Holland

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8777

DRIAD

April 2020

Author's Address

Jake Holland
Akamai Technologies, Inc.
150 Broadway
Cambridge MA 02144
,
United States of America
Email:

 jakeholland.net@gmail.com

Holland

Standards Track

Page 33

