Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8796
4090
Standards Track
July 2020
2070-1721

M. Taillon
Cisco Systems, Inc.

 Ed.

T. Saad,
Juniper Networks

R. Gandhi
Cisco Systems, Inc.

A. Deshmukh
Juniper Networks

M. Jork
128 Technology

V. Beeram
Juniper Networks

RFC 8796
RSVP-TE Summary Fast Reroute Extensions for Label
Switched Path (LSP) Tunnels

Abstract

This document updates RFC 4090 for the Resource Reservation Protocol (RSVP) Tra’¼āc
Engineering (TE) procedures de’¼üned for facility backup protection. The updates include
extensions that reduce the amount of signaling and processing that occurs during Fast Reroute
(FRR); as a result, scalability when undergoing FRR convergence after a link or node failure is
improved. These extensions allow the RSVP message exchange between the Point of Local Repair
(PLR) and the Merge Point (MP) nodes to be independent of the number of protected Label
Switched Paths (LSPs) traversing between them when facility bypass FRR protection is used. The
signaling extensions are fully backwards compatible with nodes that do not support them.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8796

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identi’¼üed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in e’¼Ćect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpli’¼üed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpli’¼üed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Terminology

2.2.  Acronyms and Abbreviations

3.  Extensions for Summary FRR Signaling

3.1.  B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION Object

3.1.1.  IPv4 B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID

3.1.2.  IPv6 B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID

3.1.3.  Processing Rules for B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION Object

3.2.  B-SFRR-Active Extended ASSOCIATION Object

3.2.1.  IPv4 B-SFRR-Active Extended Association ID

3.2.2.  IPv6 B-SFRR-Active Extended Association ID

3.3.  Signaling Procedures prior to Failure

3.3.1.  PLR Signaling Procedure

3.3.2.  MP Signaling Procedure

3.4.  Signaling Procedures Post-Failure

3.4.1.  PLR Signaling Procedure

3.4.2.  MP Signaling Procedure

3.5.  Refreshing Summary FRR Active LSPs

4.  Backwards Compatibility

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC4090]

The Fast Reroute (FRR) procedures de’¼üned in
of Local Repair (PLR) to reroute tra’¼āc and signaling of a protected RSVP-TE Label Switched Path
(LSP) onto the bypass tunnel in the event of a TE link or node failure. Such signaling procedures
are performed individually for each a’¼Ćected protected LSP. This may eventually lead to control-
plane scalability and latency issues on the PLR and/or the Merge Point (MP) nodes due to limited
memory and CPU processing resources. This condition is exacerbated when the failure a’¼Ćects a
large number of protected LSPs that traverse the same PLR and MP nodes.

 describe the mechanisms for the Point

For example, in a large-scale deployment of RSVP-TE LSPs, a single Label Switching Router (LSR)
acting as a PLR node may host tens of thousands of protected RSVP-TE LSPs egressing the same
protected link and also act as an MP node for a similar number of LSPs that ingress on the same
link. In the event of the failure of the link or neighbor node, the RSVP-TE control plane of the
node (when acting as a PLR node) becomes busy rerouting protected LSPs over the bypass tunnel
(s) in one direction and (when acting as an MP node) becomes busy merging RSVP states from
signaling received over bypass tunnels for one or more LSPs in the reverse direction.
Subsequently, the head-end Label Edge Routers (LERs) that are noti’¼üed of the local repair at any
downstream LSRs will attempt to (re)converge the a’¼Ćected RSVP-TE LSPs onto newly computed
paths -- possibly traversing the same previously a’¼Ćected LSR(s). As a result, the RSVP-TE control
plane becomes overwhelmed (1) by the amount of FRR RSVP-TE processing overhead following
the link or node failure and (2) due to other control-plane protocols (e.g., IGP) that undergo
convergence on the same node at the same time.

Today, each protected RSVP-TE LSP is signaled individually over the bypass tunnel after FRR. The
changes introduced in this document allow the PLR node to assign multiple protected LSPs to a
bypass tunnel group and to communicate this assignment to the MP, such that upon failure, the
signaling over the bypass tunnel happens on one or more bypass tunnel groups. This document
de’¼ünes new extensions that

1.

update the procedures de’¼üned in
node to become aware of the PLR node's bypass tunnel assignment group or groups.

 for facility backup protection, to enable the MP

[RFC4090]

2.

allow FRR procedures between the PLR and the MP nodes to be signaled and processed on
one or more per-bypass tunnel groups.

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

[RFC2961]

, summary refresh procedures use MESSAGE_ID to refresh the RSVP Path
As de’¼üned in
and Resv states to help with scaling. The Summary FRR procedures introduced in this document
build on those concepts to allow the MESSAGE_ID(s) to be exchanged on one or more per-bypass
tunnel assignment groups and continue to use summary refresh procedures while reducing the
amount of messaging that occurs after rerouting signaling over the bypass tunnel post-FRR.

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.2.  Acronyms and Abbreviations

It is assumed that the reader is familiar with the terms and abbreviations used in
[RFC4090]
.

[RFC3209]

 and

The following abbreviations are also used in this document:

LSR:

Label Switching Router

LER:

Label Edge Router

MPLS:

Multiprotocol Label Switching

LSP:

Label Switched Path

MP:

Merge Point node as de’¼üned in

[RFC4090]

PLR:

Point of Local Repair node as de’¼üned in

[RFC4090]

FRR:

Fast Reroute as de’¼üned in

[RFC4090]

B-SFRR-Ready:

Bypass Summary FRR Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object. Added by the PLR

node for each LSP protected by the bypass tunnel

B-SFRR-Active:

Bypass Summary FRR Active Extended ASSOCIATION object. Used to notify the

MP node that one or more groups of protected LSPs have been rerouted over the
associated bypass tunnel

MTU:

Maximum Transmission Unit

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

3.  Extensions for Summary FRR Signaling

The RSVP ASSOCIATION object is de’¼üned in
other. For example, in the context of one or more GMPLS-controlled LSPs, the ASSOCIATION
object is used to associate a recovery LSP with the LSP(s) it is protecting. The Extended
ASSOCIATION object is introduced in
 to expand on the possible usage of the
[RFC6780]
ASSOCIATION object and generalize the de’¼ünition of the Extended Association ID ’¼üeld.

 as a means to associate LSPs with each

[RFC4872]

This document de’¼ünes the use of the Extended ASSOCIATION object to carry the Summary FRR
information and associate the protected LSP or LSPs with the bypass tunnel that protects them.
Two new Association Types for the Extended ASSOCIATION object, and new Extended
Association IDs, are de’¼üned in this document to describe the Bypass Summary FRR Ready (B-
SFRR-Ready) and Bypass Summary FRR Active (BŌĆæSFRR-Active) associations.

The PLR node creates and manages the Summary FRR LSP groups (identi’¼üed by
Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üers) and shares the group identi’¼üers with the MP via signaling.

A PLR node
the protected LSPs:

SHOULD

 assign the same Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer to all protected LSPs provided that

ŌĆó

share the same outgoing protected interface,

ŌĆó

are protected by the same bypass tunnel, and

ŌĆó

are assigned the same tunnel sender address that is used for backup path identi’¼ücation after
FRR as described in

[RFC4090]

.

This minimizes the number of bypass tunnel Summary FRR groups and optimizes the amount of
signaling that occurs between the PLR and the MP nodes after FRR.

A PLR node that supports Summary FRR procedures adds an Extended ASSOCIATION object with
a B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID in the RSVP Path message of the protected LSP. The PLR
node adds the protected LSP Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer, information from the assigned bypass
tunnel, and a MESSAGE_ID object into the B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID. The MP uses
the information contained in the received B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID to refresh and
merge the protected LSP Path state after FRR occurs.

An MP node that supports Summary FRR procedures adds the B-SFRR-Ready Extended
ASSOCIATION object and respective Extended Association ID in the RSVP Resv message of the
protected LSP to acknowledge the PLR's bypass tunnel assignment and provide the MESSAGE_ID
object that the MP node will use to refresh the protected LSP Resv state after FRR occurs.

The MP maintains the PLR node group assignments learned from signaling and acknowledges
the group assignments to the PLR node via signaling. Once the PLR node receives the group
assignment acknowledgment from the MP, the FRR signaling can proceed based on Summary
FRR procedures as described in this document.

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

The B-SFRR-Active Extended ASSOCIATION object with Extended Association ID is sent by the
PLR node after activating the Summary FRR procedures. The B-SFRR-Active Extended
ASSOCIATION object with Extended Association ID is sent within the RSVP Path message of the
bypass tunnel to inform the MP node that one or more groups of protected LSPs protected by the
bypass tunnel are now being rerouted over the bypass tunnel.

3.1.  B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION Object

The Extended ASSOCIATION object is populated using the rules de’¼üned below to associate a
protected LSP with the bypass tunnel that is protecting it when Summary FRR procedures are
enabled.

The Association Type, Association ID, and Association Source
for the ASSOCIATION object. More speci’¼ücally:

MUST

 be set as de’¼üned in

[RFC4872]

Association Source:

The Association Source is set to an address of the PLR node.

Association Type:

A new Association Type is de’¼üned for B-SFRR-Ready as follows:

Value

Type

5

Bypass Summary FRR Ready Association (B-SFRR-Ready)

Table 1: The B-SFRR-Ready Association Type

The Extended ASSOCIATION object's Global Association Source
de’¼üned in

[RFC6780]

.

MUST

 be set according to the rules

The B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID is populated by the PLR node when performing
Bypass Summary FRR Ready association for a protected LSP. The rules governing its population
are described in the subsequent sections.

3.1.1.  IPv4 B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID

The IPv4 Extended Association ID for the B-SFRR-Ready Association Type is carried inside the
IPv4 Extended ASSOCIATION object and has the following format:

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |         Bypass_Tunnel_ID      |           Reserved            |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                Bypass_Source_IPv4_Address                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                Bypass_Destination_IPv4_Address                |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                Bypass_Group_Identifier                        |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                MESSAGE_ID                                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: The IPv4 Extended Association ID for B-SFRR-Ready

Bypass_Tunnel_ID:

16 bits

The bypass tunnel identi’¼üer.

Reserved:

16 bits

Reserved for future use.

MUST

 be set to zero when sending and ignored on receipt.

Bypass_Source_IPv4_Address:

32 bits

The bypass tunnel source IPv4 address.

Bypass_Destination_IPv4_Address:

32 bits

The bypass tunnel destination IPv4 address.

Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer:

32 bits

The bypass tunnel group identi’¼üer that is assigned to the LSP.

MESSAGE_ID:

A MESSAGE_ID object as de’¼üned by

[RFC2961]

.

3.1.2.  IPv6 B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID

The IPv6 Extended Association ID for the B-SFRR-Ready Association Type is carried inside the
IPv6 Extended ASSOCIATION object and has the following format:

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |         Bypass_Tunnel_ID      |           Reserved            |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                                                               |
   +                                                               +
   |                                                               |
   +                Bypass_Source_IPv6_Address                     +
   |                                                               |
   +                                                               +
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                                                               |
   +                                                               +
   |                                                               |
   +                Bypass_Destination_IPv6_Address                +
   |                                                               |
   +                                                               +
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                Bypass_Group_Identifier                        |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                MESSAGE_ID                                     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: The IPv6 Extended Association ID for B-SFRR-Ready

Bypass_Tunnel_ID:

16 bits

The bypass tunnel identi’¼üer.

Reserved:

16 bits

Reserved for future use.

MUST

 be set to zero when sending and ignored on receipt.

Bypass_Source_IPv6_Address:

128 bits

The bypass tunnel source IPv6 address.

Bypass_Destination_IPv6_Address:

128 bits

The bypass tunnel destination IPv6 address.

Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer:

32 bits

The bypass tunnel group identi’¼üer that is assigned to the LSP.

MESSAGE_ID:

A MESSAGE_ID object as de’¼üned by

[RFC2961]

.

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

3.1.3.  Processing Rules for B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION Object

A PLR node assigns a bypass tunnel and Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer for each protected LSP. The
same Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer is used for the set of protected LSPs that share the same bypass
tunnel, traverse the same egress link, and are not already rerouted. The PLR node
a MESSAGE_ID object with Epoch and Message_Identi’¼üer set according to
MESSAGE_ID object Flags
received at the MP node.

 be cleared when transmitted by the PLR node and ignored when

MUST
. The

[RFC2961]

MUST

 generate

A PLR node
 generate a new Message_Identi’¼üer each time the contents of the B-SFRR-Ready
Extended Association ID change (e.g., when the PLR node changes the bypass tunnel assignment).

MUST

A PLR node noti’¼ües the MP node of the bypass tunnel assignment via adding a B-SFRR-Ready
Extended ASSOCIATION object and Extended Association ID in the RSVP Path message for the
protected LSP, using the procedures described in Section 3.3.

An MP node acknowledges the assignment to the PLR node by signaling the B-SFRR-Ready
Extended ASSOCIATION object and Extended Association ID within the RSVP Resv message of the
protected LSP. With the exception of the MESSAGE_ID object, all other ’¼üelds from the received B-
SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID in the RSVP Path message are copied into the B-SFRR-Ready
Extended Association ID to be added in the Resv message. The MESSAGE_ID object is set
according to
MP node and ignored when received at the PLR node. A new Message_Identi’¼üer
acknowledge an updated PLR node's assignment.

 be cleared when transmitted by the
 be used to

. The MESSAGE_ID object Flags

[RFC2961]

MUST

MUST

A PLR node considers the protected LSP as Summary FRR capable only if all the ’¼üelds in the B-
SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID that are sent in the RSVP Path message match the ’¼üelds
received in the RSVP Resv message (with the exception of the MESSAGE_ID). If the ’¼üelds do not
match or if the B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object is absent in a subsequent refresh,
 consider the protected LSP as not Summary FRR capable.
the PLR node

MUST

A race condition may arise for a previously Summary FRR-capable protected LSP when the MP
node triggers a refresh that does not contain the B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object,
while at the same time the PLR triggers Summary FRR procedures due to a fault occurring
concurrently. In this case, it is possible that the PLR triggers Summary FRR procedures on the
protected LSP before it can receive and process the refresh from the MP node. As a result, the MP
will receive an Srefresh with a Message_Identi’¼üer that is not associated with any state. As per
, this results in the MP generating an Srefresh NACK for this Message_Identi’¼üer and
[RFC2961]
sending it back to the PLR. The PLR processes the Srefresh NACK, replays the full Path state
associated with the Message_Identi’¼üer, and subsequently recovers from this condition.

3.2.  B-SFRR-Active Extended ASSOCIATION Object

The Extended ASSOCIATION object for the B-SFRR-Active Association Type is populated by a PLR
node to indicate to the MP node (the bypass tunnel destination) that one or more groups of
Summary FRRŌĆæcapable protected LSPs that are being protected by the bypass tunnel are being
rerouted over the bypass tunnel.

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

The B-SFRR-Active Extended ASSOCIATION object is carried in the RSVP Path message of the
bypass tunnel and signaled downstream towards the MP (the bypass tunnel destination).

The Association Type, Association ID, and Association Source
for the ASSOCIATION object. More speci’¼ücally:

MUST

 be set as de’¼üned in

[RFC4872]

Association Source:

The Association Source is set to an address of the PLR node.

Association Type:

A new Association Type is de’¼üned for B-SFRR-Active as follows:

Value

Type

6

Bypass Summary FRR Active Association (B-SFRR-Active)

Table 2: The B-SFRR-Active Association Type

Extended Association ID for B-SFRR-Active:

The B-SFRR-Active Extended Association ID is populated by the PLR node for the Bypass
Summary FRR Active association. The rules to populate the Extended Association ID in this
case are described below.

3.2.1.  IPv4 B-SFRR-Active Extended Association ID

The IPv4 Extended Association ID for the B-SFRR-Active Association Type is carried inside the
IPv4 Extended ASSOCIATION object and has the following format:

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |            Num-BGIDs          |          Reserved             |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                       Bypass_Group_Identifier                 |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                               :                               |
   //                              :                              //
   |                               :                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                       Bypass_Group_Identifier                 |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   //                      RSVP_HOP_Object                        //
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   //                      TIME_VALUES                            //
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                       IPv4 tunnel sender address              |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: The IPv4 Extended Association ID for B-SFRR-Active

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

Num-BGIDs:

16 bits

Number of Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer ’¼üelds.

Reserved:

16 bits

Reserved for future use.

Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer:

32 bits each

A Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer that was previously signaled by the PLR using the Extended
ASSOCIATION object in the B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID. One or more
Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üers

 be included.

MAY

RSVP_HOP_Object:

Class 3, as de’¼üned by

[RFC2205]

Replacement RSVP_HOP object to be applied to all LSPs associated with each of the
following Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üers. This corresponds to C-Type = 1 for IPv4 RSVP_HOP.

TIME_VALUES object:

Class 5, as de’¼üned by

[RFC2205]

Replacement TIME_VALUES object to be applied to all LSPs associated with each of the
preceding Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üers after receiving the B-SFRR-Active Extended
ASSOCIATION object.

IPv4 tunnel sender address:

The IPv4 address that the PLR node sets to identify one or more backup paths as described
in
Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üers carried in the B-SFRR-Active Extended Association ID.

. This address is applicable to all groups identi’¼üed by any

Section 6.1.1 of [RFC4090]

3.2.2.  IPv6 B-SFRR-Active Extended Association ID

The IPv6 Extended Association ID for the B-SFRR-Active Association Type is carried inside the
IPv6 Extended ASSOCIATION object and has the following format:

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |            Num-BGIDs          |          Reserved             |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                       Bypass_Group_Identifier                 |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                               :                               |
   //                              :                              //
   |                               :                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                       Bypass_Group_Identifier                 |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   //                      RSVP_HOP_Object                        //
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   //                      TIME_VALUES                            //
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                                                               |
   +                                                               +
   |                                                               |
   +                       IPv6 tunnel sender address              +
   |                                                               |
   +                                                               +
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: The IPv6 Extended Association ID for B-SFRR-Active

Num-BGIDs:

16 bits

Number of Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer ’¼üelds.

Reserved:

16 bits

Reserved for future use.

Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer:

32 bits each

A Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer that was previously signaled by the PLR using the Extended
ASSOCIATION object in the B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID. One or more
Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üers

 be included.

MAY

RSVP_HOP_Object:

Class 3, as de’¼üned by

[RFC2205]

Replacement RSVP_HOP object to be applied to all LSPs associated with each of the
following Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üers. This corresponds to C-Type = 2 for IPv6 RSVP_HOP.

TIME_VALUES object:

Class 5, as de’¼üned by

[RFC2205]

Replacement TIME_VALUES object to be applied to all LSPs associated with each of the
following Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üers after receiving the B-SFRR-Active Extended
ASSOCIATION object.

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

IPv6 tunnel sender address:

The IPv6 address that the PLR node sets to identify one or more backup paths as described
in
Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üers carried in the B-SFRR-Active Extended Association ID.

. This address is applicable to all groups identi’¼üed by any

Section 6.1.1 of [RFC4090]

3.3.  Signaling Procedures prior to Failure

 be completed between the PLR
Before Summary FRR procedures can be used, a handshake
and MP nodes. This handshake is performed using the Extended ASSOCIATION object that carries
the B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID in both the RSVP Path and Resv messages of the
protected LSP.

MUST

[RFC4090]
The facility backup method introduced in
PLR node imposes additional MPLS labels post-FRR) to allow rerouting of protected tra’¼āc over
the backup path. The backup path may have stricter MTU requirements; due to label stacking at
the PLR node, the protected tra’¼āc may exceed the backup path MTU. It is assumed that the
operator engineers their network to allow rerouting of protected tra’¼āc and the additional label
stacking at the PLR node in order to not exceed the backup path MTU.

 takes advantage of MPLS label stacking (the

 ensure that the bypass
When using the procedures de’¼üned in this document, the PLR node
tunnel assignment can satisfy the protected LSP MTU requirements post-FRR. This prevents any
packets from being dropped due to exceeding the MTU size of the backup path after tra’¼āc is
rerouted onto the bypass tunnel post-failure.
determine whether a node needs to fragment or drop a packet when it exceeds the path MTU
discovered using RSVP signaling on the primary LSP path. A PLR can leverage the RSVP-
discovered path MTU on the backup and primary LSP paths to ensure that the MTU is not
exceeded before or after rerouting the protected tra’¼āc onto the bypass tunnel.

 describes a mechanism to

Section 2.6 of [RFC3209]

MUST

3.3.1.  PLR Signaling Procedure

The B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object is added by each PLR node in the RSVP Path
message of the protected LSP to record the bypass tunnel assignment. This object is updated
every time the PLR node updates the bypass tunnel assignment. This results in triggering an
RSVP Path change message.

Upon receiving an RSVP Resv message with a B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object, the
PLR node checks to see if the expected subobjects from the B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association
ID are present. If present, the PLR node determines if the MP has acknowledged the current PLR
node's assignment.

To be a valid acknowledgment, the received B-SFRR-Ready Extended Association ID contents
within the RSVP Resv message of the protected LSP
Extended ASSOCIATION object and Association ID contents that the PLR node had sent within the
RSVP Path message (with the exception of the MESSAGE_ID).

 match the latest B-SFRR-Ready

MUST

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

Note that when forwarding an RSVP Resv message upstream, the PLR node
all B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION objects whose Bypass_Source_IPv4_Address or
Bypass_Source_IPv6_Address ’¼üeld matches any of the PLR node addresses.

SHOULD

 remove any/

3.3.2.  MP Signaling Procedure

Upon receiving an RSVP Path message with a B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object, an
MP node processes all (there may be multiple PLR nodes for a single MP node) B-SFRR-Ready
Extended ASSOCIATION objects that have the MP node address as the bypass destination address
in the Extended Association ID.

The MP node ’¼ürst ensures the existence of the bypass tunnel and that the
Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer is not already FRR Active. That is, an LSP cannot join a group that is
already FRR rerouted.

The MP node builds a mirrored Summary FRR group database per PLR node by associating the
Bypass_Source_IPv4_Address or Bypass_Source_IPv6_Address that is carried in the IPv4 or IPv6
BŌĆæSFRR-Ready Extended Association IDs, respectively.

The MESSAGE_ID is extracted and recorded for the protected LSP Path state. The MP node signals
a B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object and Extended Association ID in the RSVP Resv
message of the protected LSP. With the exception of the MESSAGE_ID objects, all other ’¼üelds of
the received B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object in the RSVP Path message are copied
into the B-SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION object to be added in the Resv message. The
MESSAGE_ID object is set according to

 with the Flags cleared.

[RFC2961]

Note that an MP may receive more than one RSVP Path message with the B-SFRR-Ready Extended
ASSOCIATION object from one or more di’¼Ćerent upstream PLR nodes. In this case, the MP node is
expected to save all the received MESSAGE_IDs received from the di’¼Ćerent upstream PLR nodes.
After a failure, the MP node determines and activates the state(s) associated with the
Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer(s) received in the RSVP Path message containing the B-SFRR-Active
Extended ASSOCIATION object that is signaled over the bypass tunnel from the PLR node, as
described in Section 3.4.

When forwarding an RSVP Path message downstream, the MP node
SFRR-Ready Extended ASSOCIATION objects whose Bypass_Destination_IPv4_Address or
Bypass_Destination_IPv6_Address ’¼üeld matches any of the MP node addresses.

SHOULD

 remove any/all B-

3.4.  Signaling Procedures Post-Failure

Upon detection of a fault (egress link or node failure), the PLR node will ’¼ürst perform the object
modi’¼ücation procedures described by
 for all a’¼Ćected protected LSPs.
For the Summary FRR-capable LSPs that are assigned to the same bypass tunnel, a common
 be used.
RSVP_HOP and SENDER_TEMPLATE

Section 6.4.3 of [RFC4090]

MUST

MUST

The PLR node
signaling the Summary FRR-capable LSPs. This is needed to allow for the case where the PLR
node recently changed a bypass assignment and the MP has not processed the change yet.

 signal non-Summary FRR-capable LSPs over the bypass tunnel before

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

The B-SFRR-Active Extended ASSOCIATION object is sent within the RSVP Path message of the
bypass tunnel to reroute the RSVP state of Summary FRR-capable LSPs.

3.4.1.  PLR Signaling Procedure

After a failure event, when using the Summary FRR path signaling procedures, an individual
RSVP Path message is not signaled for each Summary FRR LSP. Instead, to reroute Summary FRR
LSPs via the bypass tunnel, the PLR node adds the B-SFRR-Active Extended ASSOCIATION object
in the RSVP Path message of the RSVP session of the bypass tunnel.

The RSVP_HOP_Object ’¼üeld in the B-SFRR-Active Extended Association ID is set to a common
object that will be applied to all LSPs associated with the Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üers that are
carried in the B-SFRR-Active Extended Association ID.

The PLR node adds the Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer(s) of any group or groups that have common
group attributes, including the tunnel sender address, to the same B-SFRR-Active Extended
Association ID. Note that multiple ASSOCIATION objects, each carrying a B-SFRR-Active Extended
Association ID, can be carried within a single RSVP Path message of the bypass tunnel and sent
towards the MP as described in

[RFC6780]
.

Any previously received MESSAGE_IDs from the MP are activated on the PLR. As a result, the PLR
starts sending Srefresh messages containing the speci’¼üc Message_Identi’¼üer(s) for the states to be
refreshed.

3.4.2.  MP Signaling Procedure

Upon receiving an RSVP Path message with a B-SFRR-Active Extended ASSOCIATION object, the
MP performs normal merge point processing for each protected LSP associated with each
Bypass_Group_Identi’¼üer, as if it had received an individual RSVP Path message for that LSP.

For each Summary FRR-capable LSP that is being merged, the MP ’¼ürst modi’¼ües the Path state as
follows:

1.

The RSVP_HOP object is copied from the RSVP_HOP_Object ’¼üeld in the B-SFRR-Active
Extended Association ID.

2.

The TIME_VALUES object is copied from the TIME_VALUES ’¼üeld in the B-SFRR-Active
Extended Association ID. The TIME_VALUES object contains the refresh period of the PLR
node, and it is used to generate periodic refreshes. The TIME_VALUES object carried in the B-
SFRR-Active Extended Association ID matches the one that would have been exchanged in a
full Path message sent to the MP after the failure when no Summary FRR procedures are
used.

3.

The tunnel sender address ’¼üeld in the SENDER_TEMPLATE object is copied from the tunnel
sender address ’¼üeld of the B-SFRR-Active Extended Association ID.

4.

5.

The Explicit Route Object (ERO) is modi’¼üed as per
modi’¼ücations are completed, the MP node performs merge processing as per

Section 6.4.4 of [RFC4090]

. Once the above

[RFC4090]

.

Any previously received MESSAGE_IDs from the PLR node are activated. The MP is allowed
to send Srefresh messages containing the speci’¼üc Message_Identi’¼üer(s) for the states to be
refreshed.

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

A failure during merge processing of any individual rerouted LSP
PathErr message.

MUST

 result in an RSVP

An individual RSVP Resv message for each successfully merged Summary FRR LSP is not
signaled. The MP node
protected LSP Resv state.

 immediately use summary refresh procedures to refresh the

SHOULD

3.5.  Refreshing Summary FRR Active LSPs

The refreshing of Summary FRR Active LSPs is performed using summary refresh as de’¼üned by
[RFC2961]
.

4.  Backwards Compatibility

The (Extended) ASSOCIATION object is de’¼üned in
11bbbbbb, where b=0 or 1. This ensures compatibility with nodes that do not provide support, in
accordance with the procedures speci’¼üed in
 regarding unknown-class
objects. Such nodes will ignore the object and forward it without any modi’¼ücation.

 with a class number in the form

Section 3.10 of [RFC2205]

[RFC4872]

5.  Security Considerations

This document updates an existing RSVP object -- the Extended ASSOCIATION object as described
in Section 3. Thus, in the event of the interception of a signaling message, slightly more
information could be deduced about the state of the network than was previously the case.

When using the procedures de’¼üned in this document, FRR signaling for rerouting of the states of
one or more protected LSPs onto the bypass tunnel can be performed on a group of protected
LSPs with a single RSVP message. This allows an intruder to potentially impact and manipulate a
set of protected LSPs that are assigned to the same bypass tunnel group. Note that such an attack
is possible even without the mechanisms de’¼üned in this document, albeit at an extra cost
resulting from the excessive per-LSP signaling that will occur.

Existing mechanisms for maintaining the integrity and authenticity of RSVP messages
can be applied. Other considerations mentioned in

[RFC5920]

[RFC4090]

 also apply.

 and

[RFC2747]

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA maintains the "Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling Parameters"
registry. The "Association Type" subregistry is included in this registry.

This registry has been updated with the new Association Types for the Extended ASSOCIATION
objects de’¼üned in this document as follows:

Value Name

Reference

5

B-SFRR-Ready Association

Section 3.1

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

Value Name

Reference

6

B-SFRR-Active Association

Section 3.2

Table 3: New Extended ASSOCIATION Object
Association Types

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2205]

[RFC2747]

[RFC2961]

[RFC3209]

[RFC4090]

[RFC4872]

[RFC6780]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Braden, R., Ed., Zhang, L., Berson, S., Herzog, S., and S. Jamin "Resource
ReSerVation Protocol (RSVP) -- Version 1 Functional Speci’¼ücation" RFC 2205
DOI 10.17487/RFC2205
rfc2205>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 1997,

,

.

,

,

Baker, F., Lindell, B., and M. Talwar "RSVP Cryptographic Authentication" RFC
,
2747 DOI 10.17487/RFC2747
rfc2747>

,
, January 2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

.

Berger, L., Gan, D., Swallow, G., Pan, P., Tommasi, F., and S. Molendini "RSVP
,
Refresh Overhead Reduction Extensions" RFC 2961 DOI 10.17487/RFC2961
April 2001,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2961>

,

.

,

,
Awduche, D., Berger, L., Gan, D., Li, T., Srinivasan, V., and G. Swallow "RSVP-TE:
Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels" RFC 3209 DOI 10.17487/RFC3209
December 2001,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3209>

.

,

,

Pan, P., Ed., Swallow, G., Ed., and A. Atlas, Ed. "Fast Reroute Extensions to RSVP-
TE for LSP Tunnels" RFC 4090 DOI 10.17487/RFC4090
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4090>

, May 2005,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Lang, J.P., Ed., Rekhter, Y., Ed., and D. Papadimitriou, Ed. "RSVP-TE Extensions in
Support of End-to-End Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)
,
Recovery" RFC 4872 DOI 10.17487/RFC4872
editor.org/info/rfc4872>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2007,

,

.

,

,
Berger, L., Le Faucheur, F., and A. Narayanan "RSVP ASSOCIATION Object
, October 2012,
,
,
Extensions" RFC 6780 DOI 10.17487/RFC6780
editor.org/info/rfc6780>

.

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8796

RSVP-TE Summary FRR

July 2020

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC5920]

Fang, L., Ed. "Security Framework for MPLS and GMPLS Networks" RFC 5920
DOI 10.17487/RFC5920

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5920>

, July 2010,

.

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
Mach Chen
Gregory Mirsky
document.

, and

Alexander Okonnikov Loa Andersson Lou Berger Eric Osborne
 for reviewing and providing valuable comments on this

,

,

,

,

Contributors

Nicholas Tan
Arista Networks
Email:

 ntan@arista.com

Authors' Addresses

Mike Taillon
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

 mtaillon@cisco.com

’┐Į’┐Į’┐Į’┐Į’┐Į’┐Į
)

Tarek Saad (
Juniper Networks
Email:

 tsaad@juniper.net

Rakesh Gandhi
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

 rgandhi@cisco.com

Abhishek Deshmukh
Juniper Networks
Email:

 adeshmukh@juniper.net

Markus Jork
128 Technology
Email:

 mjork@128technology.com

Vishnu Pavan Beeram
Juniper Networks
Email:

 vbeeram@juniper.net

Taillon, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

