Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8784
Standards Track
June 2020
2070-1721
S. Fluhrer
Cisco Systems

P. Kampanakis
Cisco Systems

D. McGrew
Cisco Systems

V. Smyslov
ELVIS-PLUS

RFC 8784
Mixing Preshared Keys in the Internet Key Exchange
Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2) for Post-quantum Security

Abstract

The possibility of quantum computers poses a serious challenge to cryptographic algorithms
deployed widely today. The Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2) is one example of a
cryptosystem that could be broken; someone storing VPN communications today could decrypt
them at a later time when a quantum computer is available. It is anticipated that IKEv2 will be
extended to support quantum-secure key exchange algorithms; however, that is not likely to
happen in the near term. To address this problem before then, this document describes an
extension of IKEv2 to allow it to be resistant to a quantum computer by using preshared keys.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8784

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Assumptions

3.  Exchanges

4.  Upgrade Procedure

5.  PPK

5.1.  PPK_ID Format

5.2.  Operational Considerations

5.2.1.  PPK Distribution

5.2.2.  Group PPK

5.2.3.  PPK-Only Authentication

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Discussion and Rationale

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Recent achievements in developing quantum computers demonstrate that it is probably feasible
to build one that is cryptographically signiﬁcant. If such a computer is implemented, many of the
cryptographic algorithms and protocols currently in use would be insecure. A quantum
computer would be able to solve Diﬃe-Hellman (DH) and Elliptic Curve Diﬃe-Hellman (ECDH)
, and this would imply that the security of existing IKEv2
problems in polynomial time

[C2PQ]

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

 systems would be compromised. IKEv1

[RFC7296]
keys, is not vulnerable to quantum attacks because those keys are one of the inputs to the key
derivation function. If the preshared key has suﬃcient entropy and the Pseudorandom Function
(PRF), encryption, and authentication transforms are quantum secure, then the resulting system
is believed to be quantum secure -- that is, secure against classical attackers of today or future
attackers with a quantum computer.

, when used with strong preshared

[RFC2409]

This document describes a way to extend IKEv2 to have a similar property; assuming that the
two end systems share a long secret key, then the resulting exchange is quantum secure. By
bringing post-quantum security to IKEv2, this document removes the need to use an obsolete
version of IKE in order to achieve that security goal.

The general idea is that we add an additional secret that is shared between the initiator and the
responder; this secret is in addition to the authentication method that is already provided within
IKEv2. We stir this secret into the SK_d value, which is used to generate the key material
(KEYMAT) for the Child Security Associations (SAs) and the SKEYSEED for the IKE SAs created as
a result of the initial IKE SA rekey. This secret provides quantum resistance to the IPsec SAs and
any subsequent IKE SAs. We also stir the secret into the SK_pi and SK_pr values; this allows both
sides to detect a secret mismatch cleanly.

It was considered important to minimize the changes to IKEv2. The existing mechanisms to
perform authentication and key exchange remain in place (that is, we continue to perform
(EC)DH and potentially PKI authentication if conﬁgured). This document does not replace the
authentication checks that the protocol does; instead, they are strengthened by using an
additional secret key.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Assumptions

We assume that each IKE peer has a list of Post-quantum Preshared Keys (PPKs) along with their
identiﬁers (PPK_ID), and any potential IKE initiator selects which PPK to use with any speciﬁc
responder. In addition, implementations have a conﬁgurable ﬂag that determines whether this
PPK is mandatory. This PPK is independent of the preshared key (if any) that the IKEv2 protocol
uses to perform authentication (because the preshared key in IKEv2 is not used for any key
derivation and thus doesn't protect against quantum computers). The PPK-speciﬁc conﬁguration
that is assumed to be on each node consists of the following tuple:

Peer, PPK, PPK_ID, mandatory_or_not

We assume the reader is familiar with the payload notation deﬁned in

Section 1.2 of [RFC7296]

.

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

3.  Exchanges

If the initiator is conﬁgured to use a PPK with the responder (whether or not the use of the PPK is
mandatory), then it
follows:

 include a notiﬁcation USE_PPK in the IKE_SA_INIT request message as

MUST

Initiator                       Responder
------------------------------------------------------------------
HDR, SAi1, KEi, Ni, N(USE_PPK)  --->

N(USE_PPK) is a status notiﬁcation payload with the type 16435; it has a protocol ID of 0, no
Security Parameter Index (SPI), and no notiﬁcation data associated with it.

If the initiator needs to resend this initial message with a COOKIE notiﬁcation, then the resend
would include the USE_PPK notiﬁcation if the original message did (see

Section 2.6 of [RFC7296]

).

If the responder does not support this speciﬁcation or does not have any PPK conﬁgured, then it
ignores the received notiﬁcation (as deﬁned in
 for unknown status notiﬁcations) and
continues with the IKEv2 protocol as normal. Otherwise, the responder replies with the
IKE_SA_INIT message, including a USE_PPK notiﬁcation in the response:

[RFC7296]

Initiator                       Responder
------------------------------------------------------------------
                <--- HDR, SAr1, KEr, Nr, [CERTREQ,] N(USE_PPK)

When the initiator receives this reply, it checks whether the responder included the USE_PPK
notiﬁcation. If the responder did not include the USE_PPK notiﬁcation and the ﬂag
mandatory_or_not indicates that using PPKs is mandatory for communication with this
responder, then the initiator
misconﬁguration, i.e., when the initiator believes it has a mandatory-to-use PPK for the
responder and the responder either doesn't support PPKs at all or doesn't have any PPK
conﬁgured for the initiator. See Section 6 for discussion of the possible impacts of this situation.

 abort the exchange. This situation may happen in case of

MUST

If the responder did not include the USE_PPK notiﬁcation and using a PPK for this particular
responder is optional, then the initiator continues with the IKEv2 protocol as normal, without
using PPKs.

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

If the responder did include the USE_PPK notiﬁcation, then the initiator selects a PPK, along with
its identiﬁer PPK_ID. Then, it computes this modiﬁcation of the standard IKEv2 key derivation
from

:
Section 2.14 of [RFC7296]

 SKEYSEED = prf(Ni | Nr, g^ir)
 {SK_d' | SK_ai | SK_ar | SK_ei | SK_er | SK_pi' | SK_pr'}
                 = prf+ (SKEYSEED, Ni | Nr | SPIi | SPIr)

 SK_d  = prf+ (PPK, SK_d')
 SK_pi = prf+ (PPK, SK_pi')
 SK_pr = prf+ (PPK, SK_pr')

That is, we use the standard IKEv2 key derivation process, except that the three resulting subkeys
SK_d, SK_pi, and SK_pr (marked with primes in the formula above) are then run through the prf+
again, this time using the PPK as the key. The result is the unprimed versions of these keys, which
are then used as inputs to subsequent steps of the IKEv2 exchange.

Using a prf+ construction ensures that it is always possible to get the resulting keys of the same
size as the initial ones, even if the underlying PRF has an output size diﬀerent from its key size.
Note that at the time of this writing, all PRFs deﬁned for use in IKEv2 (see the "Transform Type 2
- Pseudorandom Function Transform IDs" subregistry
) have an output size equal to
the (preferred) key size. For such PRFs, only the ﬁrst iteration of prf+ is needed:

[IANA-IKEV2]

 SK_d  = prf (PPK, SK_d'  | 0x01)
 SK_pi = prf (PPK, SK_pi' | 0x01)
 SK_pr = prf (PPK, SK_pr' | 0x01)

Note that the PPK is used in SK_d, SK_pi, and SK_pr calculations only during the initial IKE SA
setup. It
resumption, or other similar operations.

 be used when these subkeys are calculated as result of IKE SA rekey,

MUST NOT

The initiator then sends the IKE_AUTH request message, including the PPK_ID value as follows:

Initiator                       Responder
------------------------------------------------------------------
HDR, SK {IDi, [CERT,] [CERTREQ,]
    [IDr,] AUTH, SAi2,
    TSi, TSr, N(PPK_IDENTITY, PPK_ID), [N(NO_PPK_AUTH)]}  --->

PPK_IDENTITY is a status notiﬁcation with the type 16436; it has a protocol ID of 0, no SPI, and
notiﬁcation data that consists of the identiﬁer PPK_ID.

A situation may happen when the responder has some PPKs but doesn't have a PPK with the
PPK_ID received from the initiator. In this case, the responder cannot continue with the PPK (in
particular, it cannot authenticate the initiator), but the responder could be able to continue with
the normal IKEv2 protocol if the initiator provided its authentication data computed as in the
normal IKEv2 without using PPKs. For this purpose, if using PPKs for communication with this

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

responder is optional for the initiator (based on the mandatory_or_not ﬂag), then the initiator
 include a NO_PPK_AUTH notiﬁcation in the above message. This notiﬁcation informs the
MUST
responder that PPKs are optional and allows for authenticating the initiator without using PPKs.

NO_PPK_AUTH is a status notiﬁcation with the type 16437; it has a protocol ID of 0 and no SPI.
The Notiﬁcation Data ﬁeld contains the initiator's authentication data computed using SK_pi',
which has been computed without using PPKs. This is the same data that would normally be
placed in the Authentication Data ﬁeld of an AUTH payload. Since the Auth Method ﬁeld is not
present in the notiﬁcation, the authentication method used for computing the authentication
data
 be the same as the method indicated in the AUTH payload. Note that if the initiator
decides to include the NO_PPK_AUTH notiﬁcation, the initiator needs to perform authentication
data computation twice, which may consume computation power (e.g., if digital signatures are
involved).

MUST

When the responder receives this encrypted exchange, it ﬁrst computes the values:

 SKEYSEED = prf(Ni | Nr, g^ir)
 {SK_d' | SK_ai | SK_ar | SK_ei | SK_er | SK_pi' | SK_pr'}
                 = prf+ (SKEYSEED, Ni | Nr | SPIi | SPIr)

The responder then uses the SK_ei/SK_ai values to decrypt/check the message and then scans
through the payloads for the PPK_ID attached to the PPK_IDENTITY notiﬁcation. If no
PPK_IDENTITY notiﬁcation is found and the peers successfully exchanged USE_PPK notiﬁcations
in the IKE_SA_INIT exchange, then the responder
 send back an AUTHENTICATION_FAILED
notiﬁcation and then fail the negotiation.

MUST

If the PPK_IDENTITY notiﬁcation contains a PPK_ID that is not known to the responder or is not
conﬁgured for use for the identity from the IDi payload, then the responder checks whether
using PPKs for this initiator is mandatory and whether the initiator included a NO_PPK_AUTH
notiﬁcation in the message. If using PPKs is mandatory or no NO_PPK_AUTH notiﬁcation is
found, then the responder
fail the negotiation. Otherwise (when a PPK is optional and the initiator included a
NO_PPK_AUTH notiﬁcation), the responder
it uses the data from the NO_PPK_AUTH notiﬁcation as the authentication data (which usually
resides in the AUTH payload) for the purpose of the initiator authentication. Note that the
authentication method is still indicated in the AUTH payload.

 send back an AUTHENTICATION_FAILED notiﬁcation and then

 continue the regular IKEv2 protocol, except that

MUST

MAY

Table 1 summarizes the above logic for the responder:

Received
USE_PPK

Received
NO_PPK_AUTH

Conﬁgured
with PPK

PPK is
Mandatory

Action

No

*

No

*

Standard IKEv2
protocol

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

Received
USE_PPK

Received
NO_PPK_AUTH

Conﬁgured
with PPK

PPK is
Mandatory

Action

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Table 1

*

*

No

Yes

Yes

*

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

*

Yes

No

*

Standard IKEv2
protocol

Abort
negotiation

Abort
negotiation

Abort
negotiation

Standard IKEv2
protocol

Use PPK

If a PPK is in use, then the responder extracts the corresponding PPK and computes the following
values:

 SK_d  = prf+ (PPK, SK_d')
 SK_pi = prf+ (PPK, SK_pi')
 SK_pr = prf+ (PPK, SK_pr')

The responder then continues with the IKE_AUTH exchange (validating the AUTH payload that
the initiator included) as usual and sends back a response, which includes the PPK_IDENTITY
notiﬁcation with no data to indicate that the PPK is used in the exchange:

Initiator                       Responder
------------------------------------------------------------------
                           <--  HDR, SK {IDr, [CERT,]
                                AUTH, SAr2,
                                TSi, TSr, N(PPK_IDENTITY)}

When the initiator receives the response, it checks for the presence of the PPK_IDENTITY
notiﬁcation. If it receives one, it marks the SA as using the conﬁgured PPK to generate SK_d,
SK_pi, and SK_pr (as shown above); the content of the received PPK_IDENTITY (if any)
MUST
ignored. If the initiator does not receive the PPK_IDENTITY, it
 either fail the IKE SA
negotiation sending the AUTHENTICATION_FAILED notiﬁcation in the INFORMATIONAL
exchange (if the PPK was conﬁgured as mandatory) or continue without using the PPK (if the PPK
was not conﬁgured as mandatory and the initiator included the NO_PPK_AUTH notiﬁcation in
the request).

MUST

 be

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

If the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) is used in the IKE_AUTH exchange, then the
initiator doesn't include the AUTH payload in the ﬁrst request message; however, the responder
sends back the AUTH payload in the ﬁrst reply. The peers then exchange AUTH payloads after
EAP is successfully completed. As a result, the responder sends the AUTH payload twice -- in the
ﬁrst and last IKE_AUTH reply message -- while the initiator sends the AUTH payload only in the
last IKE_AUTH request. See more details about EAP authentication in IKEv2 in
[RFC7296]
.

Section 2.16 of

The general rule for using a PPK in the IKE_AUTH exchange, which covers the EAP
authentication case too, is that the initiator includes a PPK_IDENTITY (and optionally a
NO_PPK_AUTH) notiﬁcation in the request message containing the AUTH payload. Therefore, in
case of EAP, the responder always computes the AUTH payload in the ﬁrst IKE_AUTH reply
message without using a PPK (by means of SK_pr'), since PPK_ID is not yet known to the
responder. Once the IKE_AUTH request message containing the PPK_IDENTITY notiﬁcation is
received, the responder follows the rules described above for the non-EAP authentication case.

   Initiator                         Responder
   ----------------------------------------------------------------
   HDR, SK {IDi, [CERTREQ,]
       [IDr,] SAi2,
       TSi, TSr}  -->
                                <--  HDR, SK {IDr, [CERT,] AUTH,
                                         EAP}
   HDR, SK {EAP}  -->
                                <--  HDR, SK {EAP (success)}
   HDR, SK {AUTH,
       N(PPK_IDENTITY, PPK_ID)
       [, N(NO_PPK_AUTH)]}  -->
                                <--  HDR, SK {AUTH, SAr2, TSi, TSr
                                     [, N(PPK_IDENTITY)]}

Note that the diagram above shows both the cases when the responder uses a PPK and when it
chooses not to use it (provided the initiator has included the NO_PPK_AUTH notiﬁcation); thus,
the responder's PPK_IDENTITY notiﬁcation is marked as optional. Also, note that the IKE_SA_INIT
exchange using a PPK is as described above (including exchange of the USE_PPK notiﬁcations),
regardless of whether or not EAP is employed in the IKE_AUTH.

4.  Upgrade Procedure

This algorithm was designed so that someone can introduce PPKs into an existing IKE network
without causing network disruption.

In the initial phase of the network upgrade, the network administrator would visit each IKE node
and conﬁgure:

•

The set of PPKs (and corresponding PPK_IDs) that this node would need to know.

•

The PPK that will be used for each peer that this node would initiate to.

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

•

The value "false" for the mandatory_or_not ﬂag for each peer that this node would initiate to
(thus indicating that the use of PPKs is not mandatory).

With this conﬁguration, the node will continue to operate with nodes that have not yet been
upgraded. This is due to the USE_PPK notiﬁcation and the NO_PPK_AUTH notiﬁcation; if the
initiator has not been upgraded, it will not send the USE_PPK notiﬁcation (and so the responder
will know that the peers will not use a PPK). If the responder has not been upgraded, it will not
send the USE_PPK notiﬁcation (and so the initiator will know to not use a PPK). If both peers have
been upgraded but the responder isn't yet conﬁgured with the PPK for the initiator, then the
responder could continue with the standard IKEv2 protocol if the initiator sent a NO_PPK_AUTH
notiﬁcation. If both the responder and initiator have been upgraded and properly conﬁgured,
they will both realize it, and the Child SAs will be quantum secure.

As an optional second step, after all nodes have been upgraded, the administrator should then go
back through the nodes and mark the use of a PPK as mandatory. This will not aﬀect the strength
against a passive attacker, but it would mean that an active attacker with a quantum computer
(which is suﬃciently fast to be able to break the (EC)DH in real time) would not be able to
perform a downgrade attack.

5.  PPK

5.1.  PPK_ID Format

This standard requires that both the initiator and the responder have a secret PPK value, with
the responder selecting the PPK based on the PPK_ID that the initiator sends. In this standard,
both the initiator and the responder are conﬁgured with ﬁxed PPK and PPK_ID values and
perform the lookup based on the PPK_ID value. It is anticipated that later speciﬁcations will
extend this technique to allow dynamically changing PPK values. To facilitate such an extension,
we specify that the PPK_ID the initiator sends will have its ﬁrst octet be the PPK_ID type value.
This document deﬁnes two values for the PPK_ID type:

•

PPK_ID_OPAQUE (1) - For this type, the format of the PPK_ID (and the PPK itself) is not
speciﬁed by this document; it is assumed to be mutually intelligible by both the initiator and
the responder. This PPK_ID type is intended for those implementations that choose not to
disclose the type of PPK to active attackers.

•

PPK_ID_FIXED (2) - In this case, the format of the PPK_ID and the PPK are ﬁxed octet strings;
the remaining bytes of the PPK_ID are a conﬁgured value. We assume that there is a ﬁxed
mapping between PPK_ID and PPK, which is conﬁgured locally to both the initiator and the
responder. The responder can use the PPK_ID to look up the corresponding PPK value. Not
all implementations are able to conﬁgure arbitrary octet strings; to improve the potential
interoperability, it is recommended that, in the PPK_ID_FIXED case, both the PPK and the
PPK_ID strings be limited to the base64 character set

[RFC4648]

.

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

5.2.  Operational Considerations

The need to maintain several independent sets of security credentials can signiﬁcantly
complicate a security administrator's job and can potentially slow down widespread adoption of
this speciﬁcation. It is anticipated that administrators will try to simplify their job by decreasing
the number of credentials they need to maintain. This section describes some of the
considerations for PPK management.

5.2.1.  PPK Distribution

PPK_IDs of the type PPK_ID_FIXED (and the corresponding PPKs) are assumed to be conﬁgured
within the IKE device in an out-of-band fashion. While the method of distribution is a local
matter and is out of scope of this document or IKEv2,
 describes a format for the
transport and provisioning of symmetric keys. That format could be reused using the PIN proﬁle
(deﬁned in
PPK_ID (without the PPK_ID type octet for a PPK_ID_FIXED) and the <Secret> element containing
the PPK.

) with the "Id" attribute of the <Key> element being the

Section 10.2 of [RFC6030]

[RFC6030]

5.2.2.  Group PPK

This document doesn't explicitly require that the PPK be unique for each pair of peers. If this is
the case, then this solution provides full peer authentication, but it also means that each host
must have as many independent PPKs as peers it is going to communicate with. As the number of
peers grows, the PPKs will not scale.

It is possible to use a single PPK for a group of users. Since each peer uses classical public key
cryptography in addition to a PPK for key exchange and authentication, members of the group
can neither impersonate each other nor read each other's traﬃc unless they use quantum
computers to break public key operations. However, group members can record any traﬃc they
have access to that comes from other group members and decrypt it later, when they get access
to a quantum computer.

In addition, the fact that the PPK is known to a (potentially large) group of users makes it more
susceptible to theft. When an attacker equipped with a quantum computer gets access to a group
PPK, all communications inside the group are revealed.

For these reasons, using a group PPK is

.
NOT RECOMMENDED

5.2.3.  PPK-Only Authentication

If quantum computers become a reality, classical public key cryptography will provide little
security, so administrators may ﬁnd it attractive not to use it at all for authentication. This will
reduce the number of credentials they need to maintain because they only need to maintain PPK
credentials. Combining group PPK and PPK-only authentication is
this case, any member of the group can impersonate any other member, even without the help of
quantum computers.

NOT RECOMMENDED

 since, in

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

PPK-only authentication can be achieved in IKEv2 if the NULL Authentication method
is employed. Without PPK, the NULL Authentication method provides no authentication of the
peers; however, since a PPK is stirred into the SK_pi and the SK_pr, the peers become
authenticated if a PPK is in use. Using PPKs
support for PPKs in IKE_SA_INIT and use NULL Authentication. Additionally, since the peers are
authenticated via PPKs, the ID Type in the IDi/IDr payloads
using the NULL Authentication method.

 be mandatory for the peers if they advertise

 be ID_NULL, despite

SHOULD NOT

MUST

[RFC7619]

6.  Security Considerations

A critical consideration is how to ensure the randomness of this post-quantum preshared key.
; that eﬀectively halves
Quantum computers are able to perform Grover's algorithm
the size of a symmetric key. In addition, an adversary impersonating the server, even with a
conventional computer, can perform a dictionary search over plausible post-quantum preshared
key values. The strongest practice is to ensure that any post-quantum preshared key contains at
least 256 bits of entropy; this will provide 128 bits of post-quantum security, while providing
security against conventional dictionary attacks. That provides the security equivalent to
Category 5 as deﬁned in the NIST Post-Quantum Cryptography Call for Proposals
Deriving a post-quantum preshared key from a password, name, or other low-entropy source is
not secure because of these known attacks.

.
[NISTPQCFP]

[GROVER]

With this protocol, the computed SK_d is a function of the PPK. Assuming that the PPK has
suﬃcient entropy (for example, at least 2256 possible values), even if an attacker was able to
recover the rest of the inputs to the PRF function, it would be infeasible to use Grover's algorithm
with a quantum computer to recover the SK_d value. Similarly, all keys that are a function of
SK_d, which include all Child SA keys and all keys for subsequent IKE SAs (created when the
initial IKE SA is rekeyed), are also quantum secure (assuming that the PPK was of high enough
entropy and that all the subkeys are suﬃciently long).

An attacker with a quantum computer that can decrypt the initial IKE SA has access to all the
information exchanged over it, such as identities of the peers, conﬁguration parameters, and all
negotiated IPsec SA information (including traﬃc selectors), with the exception of the
cryptographic keys used by the IPsec SAs, which are protected by the PPK.

MUST

 rekey the IKE SA before the sensitive information is sent

Deployments that treat this information as sensitive or that send other sensitive data (like
cryptographic keys) over IKE SAs
to ensure this information is protected by the PPK. It is possible to create a childless IKE SA as
speciﬁed in
in the original IKE SA that is not protected by a PPK. Some information related to IKE SA that is
sent in the IKE_AUTH exchange, such as peer identities, feature notiﬁcations, vendor IDs, etc.,
cannot be hidden from the attack described above, even if the additional IKE SA rekey is
performed.

. This prevents Child SA conﬁguration information from being transmitted

[RFC6023]

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

SHOULD

 be set to negotiate only quantum-secure symmetric algorithms;

In addition, the policy
while this RFC doesn't claim to give advice as to what algorithms are secure (as that may change
based on future cryptographical results), below is a list of deﬁned IKEv2 and IPsec algorithms
that should not be used, as they are known to provide less than 128 bits of post-quantum
security:

•

Any IKEv2 encryption algorithm, PRF, or integrity algorithm with a key size less than 256
bits.

•

Any ESP transform with a key size less than 256 bits.

•

PRF_AES128_XCBC and PRF_AES128_CBC: even though they can use as input a key of
arbitrary size, such input keys are converted into a 128-bit key for internal use.

Section 3 requires the initiator to abort the initial exchange if using PPKs is mandatory for it but
the responder does not include the USE_PPK notiﬁcation in the response. In this situation, when
the initiator aborts the negotiation, it leaves a half-open IKE SA on the responder (because
IKE_SA_INIT completes successfully from the responder's point of view). This half-open SA will
eventually expire and be deleted, but if the initiator continues its attempts to create IKE SA with
a high enough rate, then the responder may consider it a denial-of-service (DoS) attack and take
protective measures (see
 that
the initiator cache the negative result of the negotiation and not attempt to create it again for
some time. This period of time may vary, but it is believed that waiting for at least few minutes
will not cause the responder to treat it as a DoS attack. Note that this situation would most likely
be a result of misconﬁguration, and some reconﬁguration of the peers would probably be
needed.

 for more details). In this situation, it is

RECOMMENDED

[RFC8019]

If using PPKs is optional for both peers and they authenticate themselves using digital signatures,
then an attacker in between, equipped with a quantum computer capable of breaking public key
operations in real time, is able to mount a downgrade attack by removing the USE_PPK
notiﬁcation from the IKE_SA_INIT and forging digital signatures in the subsequent exchange. If
using PPKs is mandatory for at least one of the peers or if a preshared key mode is used for
authentication, then the attack will be detected and the SA won't be created.

If using PPKs is mandatory for the initiator, then an attacker able to eavesdrop and inject packets
into the network can prevent creation of an IKE SA by mounting the following attack. The
attacker intercepts the initial request containing the USE_PPK notiﬁcation and injects a forged
response containing no USE_PPK. If the attacker manages to inject this packet before the
responder sends a genuine response, then the initiator would abort the exchange. To thwart this
kind of attack, it is
received response doesn't contain the USE_PPK notiﬁcation, the initiator not abort the exchange
immediately. Instead, it waits for more response messages, retransmitting the request as if no
responses were received at all, until either the received message contains the USE_PPK
notiﬁcation or the exchange times out (see
retransmission timers in IKEv2). If none of the received responses contains USE_PPK, then the
exchange is aborted.

 that, if using PPKs is mandatory for the initiator and the

Section 2.4 of [RFC7296]

 for more details about

RECOMMENDED

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

If using a PPK is optional for both peers, then in case of misconﬁguration (e.g., mismatched
PPK_ID), the IKE SA will be created without protection against quantum computers. It is advised
that if a PPK was conﬁgured but was not used for a particular IKE SA, then implementations
SHOULD

 audit this event.

7.  IANA Considerations

This document deﬁnes three new Notify Message Types in the "IKEv2 Notify Message Types -
Status Types" subregistry under the "Internet Key Exchange Version 2 (IKEv2) Parameters"
registry

[IANA-IKEV2]

:

Value NOTIFY MESSAGES - STATUS TYPES

Reference

16435

USE_PPK

16436

PPK_IDENTITY

16437

NO_PPK_AUTH

Table 2

RFC 8784

RFC 8784

RFC 8784

Per this document, IANA has created a new subregistry titled "IKEv2 Post-quantum Preshared
Key ID Types" under the "Internet Key Exchange Version 2 (IKEv2) Parameters" registry
[IANA-
IKEV2]
deﬁned in this speciﬁcation. The initial contents of the new subregistry are as follows:

. This new subregistry is for the PPK_ID types used in the PPK_IDENTITY notiﬁcation

Value

PPK_ID Type

Reference

0

1

2

Reserved

RFC 8784

PPK_ID_OPAQUE

RFC 8784

PPK_ID_FIXED

3-127

Unassigned

RFC 8784

RFC 8784

128-255

Reserved for Private Use

RFC 8784

Table 3

The PPK_ID type value 0 is reserved; values 3-127 are to be assigned by IANA; and values 128-255
are for private use among mutually consenting parties. To register new PPK_IDs in the
Unassigned range, a type name, a value between 3 and 127, and a reference speciﬁcation need to
be deﬁned. Changes and additions to the Unassigned range of this registry are made using the
Expert Review policy
this registry are made using the Private Use policy

. Changes and additions to the Reserved for Private Use range of

.
[RFC8126]

[RFC8126]

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7296]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Kaufman, C., Hoﬀman, P., Nir, Y., Eronen, P., and T. Kivinen "Internet Key
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" STD 79 RFC 7296 DOI 10.17487/RFC7296
October 2014,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7296>

,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

8.2.  Informative References

[C2PQ]

[GROVER]

[IANA-IKEV2]

[NISTPQCFP]

[RFC2409]

[RFC4648]

[RFC6023]

[RFC6030]

,

Hoﬀman, P. "The Transition from Classical to Post-Quantum Cryptography"
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-hoﬀman-c2pq-07
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-hoﬀman-c2pq-07>

, 26 May 2020,

,

.

,

<https://

,

Grover, L. "A Fast Quantum Mechanical Algorithm for Database Search" STOC
'96: Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth Annual ACM Symposium on the Theory of
Computing, pp. 212-219" DOI 10.1145/237814.237866
doi.org/10.1145/237814.237866>

, July 1996,

<https://

,

.

,

,

IANA "Internet Key Exchange Version 2 (IKEv2) Parameters" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/ikev2-parameters/>

.

,

,

NIST "Submission Requirements and Evaluation Criteria for the Post-Quantum
Cryptography Standardization Process"
CSRC/media/Projects/Post-Quantum-Cryptography/documents/call-for-proposals-
ﬁnal-dec-2016.pdf>

<https://csrc.nist.gov/

, December 2016,

.

Harkins, D. and D. Carrel "The Internet Key Exchange (IKE)" RFC 2409 DOI
10.17487/RFC2409

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2409>

, November 1998,

,

,

,

.

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

Nir, Y., Tschofenig, H., Deng, H., and R. Singh "A Childless Initiation of the
Internet Key Exchange Version 2 (IKEv2) Security Association (SA)" RFC 6023
DOI 10.17487/RFC6023

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6023>

, October 2010,

,

,

.

Hoyer, P., Pei, M., and S. Machani "Portable Symmetric Key Container (PSKC)"
RFC 6030 DOI 10.17487/RFC6030
rfc6030>

,
, October 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

[RFC7619]

[RFC8019]

[RFC8126]

Smyslov, V. and P. Wouters "The NULL Authentication Method in the Internet
Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" RFC 7619 DOI 10.17487/RFC7619
,
August 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7619>

.

,

,

,

,

Nir, Y. and V. Smyslov "Protecting Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2
(IKEv2) Implementations from Distributed Denial-of-Service Attacks" RFC 8019
DOI 10.17487/RFC8019
rfc8019>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2016,

,

.

,

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

.

,

,

,

, June

Appendix A.  Discussion and Rationale

The primary goal of this document is to augment the IKEv2 protocol to provide protection
against quantum computers without requiring novel cryptographic algorithms. The idea behind
this document is that while a quantum computer can easily reconstruct the shared secret of an
(EC)DH exchange, it cannot as easily recover a secret from a symmetric exchange. This document
makes the SK_d (and thus also the IPsec KEYMAT and any subsequent IKE SA's SKEYSEED)
depend on both the symmetric PPK and the Diﬃe-Hellman exchange. If we assume that the
attacker knows everything except the PPK during the key exchange and there are 2n plausible
PPKs, then a quantum computer (using Grover's algorithm) would take O(2n/2) time to recover
the PPK. So, even if the (EC)DH can be trivially solved, the attacker still can't recover any key
material (except for the SK_ei, SK_er, SK_ai, and SK_ar values for the initial IKE exchange) unless
they can ﬁnd the PPK, which is too diﬃcult if the PPK has enough entropy (for example, 256 bits).
Note that we do allow an attacker with a quantum computer to rederive the keying material for
the initial IKE SA; this was a compromise to allow the responder to select the correct PPK quickly.

Another goal of this protocol is to minimize the number of changes within the IKEv2 protocol, in
particular, within the cryptography of IKEv2. By limiting our changes to notiﬁcations and only
adjusting the SK_d, SK_pi, and SK_pr, it is hoped that this would be implementable, even on
systems that perform most of the IKEv2 processing in hardware.

A third goal is to be friendly to incremental deployment in operational networks for which we
might not want to have a global shared key or for which quantum-secure IKEv2 is rolled out
incrementally. This is why we speciﬁcally try to allow the PPK to be dependent on the peer and
why we allow the PPK to be conﬁgured as optional.

A fourth goal is to avoid violating any of the security properties provided by IKEv2.

Acknowledgements

We would like to thank
and the rest of the IPSECME Working Group for their feedback and suggestions for the scheme.

Tero Kivinen Paul Wouters Graham Bartlett Tommy Pauly Quynh Dang
,

,

,

,

,

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8784

Mixing PSKs in IKEv2 for PQ Security

June 2020

Authors' Addresses

Scott Fluhrer
Cisco Systems
Email:

 sﬂuhrer@cisco.com

Panos Kampanakis
Cisco Systems
Email:

 pkampana@cisco.com

David McGrew
Cisco Systems
Email:

 mcgrew@cisco.com

Valery Smyslov
ELVIS-PLUS
Phone:
Email:

 +7 495 276 0211
 svan@elvis.ru

Fluhrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

