Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8687
5786
Standards Track
November 2019
2070-1721
A. Smirnov
Cisco Systems, Inc.

A. Retana
Futurewei Technologies, Inc.

M. Barnes

RFC 8687
OSPF Routing with Cross-Address Family Traﬃc
Engineering Tunnels

Abstract

When using Traﬃc Engineering (TE) in a dual-stack IPv4/IPv6 network, the Multiprotocol Label
Switching (MPLS) TE Label Switched Path (LSP) infrastructure may be duplicated, even if the
destination IPv4 and IPv6 addresses belong to the same remote router. In order to achieve an
integrated MPLS TE LSP infrastructure, OSPF routes must be computed over MPLS TE tunnels
created using information propagated in another OSPF instance. This issue is solved by
advertising cross-address family (X-AF) OSPF TE information.

This document describes an update to RFC 5786 that allows for the easy identiﬁcation of a
router's local X-AF IP addresses.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8687
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2019 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Smirnov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8687

OSPF Routing with Cross-AF TE Tunnels

November 2019

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Smirnov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8687

OSPF Routing with Cross-AF TE Tunnels

November 2019

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Operation

4.  Backward Compatibility

4.1.  Automatically Switched Optical Networks

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

OSPFv2 [RFC3630]

TE extensions to
area TE in IPv4 and IPv6 networks, respectively. In both cases, the TE database provides a tight
coupling between the routed protocol and advertised TE signaling information. In other words,
any use of the TE database is limited to IPv4 for
[RFC5340]

 have been described to support intra-

OSPFv2 [RFC2328]

OSPFv3 [RFC5329]

 and IPv6 for

OSPFv3

 and

.

In a dual-stack network, it may be desirable to set up common MPLS TE LSPs to carry traﬃc
destined to addresses from diﬀerent address families on a router. The use of common LSPs eases
potential scalability and management concerns by halving the number of LSPs in the network.
Besides, it allows operators to group traﬃc based on business characteristics, class of service,
and/or applications; the operators are not constrained by the network protocol used.

For example, an LSP created based on MPLS TE information propagated by an OSPFv2 instance
can be used to transport both IPv4 and IPv6 traﬃc, as opposed to using both OSPFv2 and OSPFv3
to provision a separate LSP for each address family. Even if, in some cases, the address-family-
speciﬁc traﬃc is to be separated, calculation from a common TE database may prove to be
operationally beneﬁcial.

Smirnov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8687

OSPF Routing with Cross-AF TE Tunnels

November 2019

During the SPF calculation on the TE tunnel head-end router, OSPF computes shortcut routes
using TE tunnels. A commonly used algorithm for computing shortcuts is deﬁned in
For that or any similar algorithm to work with a common MPLS TE infrastructure in a dual-stack
network, a requirement is to reliably map the X-AF addresses to the corresponding tail-end
router. This mapping is a challenge because the Link State Advertisements (LSAs) containing the
routing information are carried in one OSPF instance, while the TE calculations may be done
using a TE database from a diﬀerent OSPF instance.

[RFC3906]

.

A simple solution to this problem is to rely on the Router ID to identify a node in the
corresponding OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 Link State Databases (LSDBs). This solution would mandate
both instances on the same router to be conﬁgured with the same Router ID. However, relying on
the correctness of conﬁguration puts additional burden and cost on the operation of the network.
The network becomes even more diﬃcult to manage if OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 topologies do not
match exactly, for example, if area borders are chosen diﬀerently in the two protocols. Also, if
the routing processes do fall out of sync (e.g., having diﬀerent Router IDs for local administrative
reasons), there is no deﬁned way for other routers to discover such misalignment and to take
corrective measures (such as to avoid routing traﬃc through aﬀected TE tunnels or alerting the
network administrators). The use of misaligned Router IDs may result in delivering the traﬃc to
the wrong tail-end router, which could lead to suboptimal routing or even traﬃc loops.

[RFC5786]

 that allows for the easy identiﬁcation of a
This document describes an update to
router's local X-AF IP addresses.
 deﬁned the Node IPv4 Local Address and Node IPv6
Local Address sub-TLVs of the Node Attribute TLV for a router to advertise additional local IPv4
 did not describe the advertisement and usage of these
and IPv6 addresses. However,
sub-TLVs when the address family of the advertised local address diﬀered from the address
family of the OSPF traﬃc engineering protocol.

[RFC5786]

[RFC5786]

[RFC5786]

This document updates
addresses using the corresponding Local Address sub-TLV. Routers using the
Node Attribute TLV
 can include non-TE-enabled interface addresses in their OSPF TE advertisements and
[RFC5786]
also use the same sub-TLVs to carry X-AF information, facilitating the mapping described above.

 so that a router can also announce one or more local X-AF

The method speciﬁed in this document can also be used to compute the X-AF mapping of the
egress Label Switching Router (LSR) for sub-LSPs of a Point-to-Multipoint LSP
Considerations of using Point-to-Multipoint MPLS TE for X-AF traﬃc forwarding is outside the
scope of this document.

[RFC4461]

.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Smirnov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8687

OSPF Routing with Cross-AF TE Tunnels

November 2019

3.  Operation

To implement the X-AF routing technique described in this document, OSPFv2 will advertise the
Node IPv6 Local Address sub-TLV and OSPFv3 will advertise the Node IPv4 Local Address sub-
TLV, possibly in addition to advertising other IP addresses as documented by

[RFC5786]

.

Multiple instances of OSPFv3 are needed if it is used for both IPv4 and IPv6
operation in this section is described with OSPFv2 as the protocol used for IPv4; that is the most
common case. The case of OSPFv3 being used for IPv4 follows the same procedure as what is
indicated for OSPFv2 below.

[RFC5838]

. The

On a node that implements X-AF routing, each OSPF instance advertises, using the Node Local
Address sub-TLV, all X-AF IPv6 (for OSPFv2 instance) or IPv4 (for OSPFv3) addresses local to the
router that can be used by the Constrained Shortest Path First (CSPF) to calculate MPLS TE LSPs:

• The OSPF instance

MUST

 advertise the IP address listed in the Router Address TLV

[RFC3630]

[RFC5329]

 of the X-AF instance maintaining the TE database.

• The OSPF instance

SHOULD
instance in its Node Local Address sub-TLVs.

 include additional local addresses advertised by the X-AF OSPF

• An implementation

MAY

 advertise other local X-AF addresses.

When TE information is advertised in an OSPF instance, both natively (i.e., as per RFC
or
TE database is used to compute routes for the OSPF instance.

[RFC3630]
) and as X-AF Node Attribute TLV, it is left to local conﬁguration to determine which

[RFC5329]

On Area Border Routers (ABRs), each advertised X-AF IP address
most, one area. If OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 ABRs coincide (i.e., the areas for all OSPFv2 and OSPFv3
interfaces are the same), then the X-AF addresses
 be advertised into the same area in both
instances. This allows other ABRs connected to the same set of areas to know with which area to
associate computed MPLS TE tunnels.

 be advertised into, at

MUST

MUST

During the X-AF routing calculation, X-AF IP addresses are used to map locally created LSPs to
tail-end routers in the LSDB. The mapping algorithm can be described as:

Walk the list of all MPLS TE tunnels for which the computing router is a head end. For each
MPLS TE tunnel T:

1. If T's destination address is from the same address family as the OSPF instance associated

with the LSDB, then the extensions deﬁned in this document do not apply.

2. Otherwise, it is a X-AF MPLS TE tunnel. Note the tunnel's destination IP address.

3. Walk the X-AF IP addresses in the LSDBs of all connected areas. If a matching IP address is
found, advertised by router R in area A, then mark the tunnel T as belonging to area A and
terminating on tail-end router R. Assign the intra-area SPF cost to reach router R within
area A as the IGP cost of tunnel T.

After completing this calculation, each TE tunnel is associated with an area and tail-end router in
terms of the routing LSDB of the computing OSPF instance and has a cost.

Smirnov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8687

OSPF Routing with Cross-AF TE Tunnels

November 2019

The algorithm described above is to be used only if the Node Local Address sub-TLV includes X-
AF information.

Note that, for clarity of description, the mapping algorithm is speciﬁed as a single calculation.
Implementations may choose to support equivalent mapping functionality without
implementing the algorithm as described.

As an example, consider a router in a dual-stack network using OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 for IPv4 and
IPv6 routing, respectively. Suppose the OSPFv2 instance is used to propagate MPLS TE
information and the router is conﬁgured to accept TE LSPs terminating at local addresses
198.51.100.1 and 198.51.100.2. The router advertises in OSPFv2 the IPv4 address 198.51.100.1 in
the Router Address TLV, the additional local IPv4 address 198.51.100.2 in the Node IPv4 Local
Address sub-TLV, and other TE TLVs as required by
network is enabled for X-AF TE routing (that is, to use MPLS TE LSPs computed by OSPFv2 for
IPv6 routing), then the OSPFv3 instance of the router will advertise the Node IPv4 Local Address
sub-TLV listing the local IPv4 addresses 198.51.100.1 and 198.51.100.2. Other routers in the
OSPFv3 network will use this information to reliably identify this router as the egress LSR for
MPLS TE LSPs terminating at either 198.51.100.1 or 198.51.100.2.

. If the OSPFv3 instance in the

[RFC3630]

4.  Backward Compatibility

Only routers that serve as endpoints for one or more TE tunnels
the procedures described herein:

MUST

 be upgraded to support

• Tunnel tail-end routers advertise the Node IPv4 Local Address sub-TLV and/or the Node IPv6

Local Address sub-TLV.

• Tunnel head-end routers perform the X-AF routing calculation.

Both the endpoints
Other routers in the network do not need to support X-AF procedures.

 be upgraded before the tail end starts advertising the X-AF information.

MUST

4.1.  Automatically Switched Optical Networks

 updates

[RFC5786]

 by deﬁning extensions to be used in an Automatically Switched

[RFC6827]
Optical Network (ASON). The Local TE Router ID sub-TLV is required for determining ASON
reachability. The implication is that if the Local TE Router ID sub-TLV is present in the Node
Attribute TLV, then the procedures in
information is advertised.

 apply, regardless of whether any X-AF

[RFC6827]

5.  Security Considerations

This document describes the use of the Local Address sub-TLVs to provide X-AF information. The
advertisement of these sub-TLVs, in any OSPF instance, is not precluded by
no new security threats are introduced beyond the considerations in
[RFC5340]

OSPFv2 [RFC2328] OSPFv3

.
[RFC5786]

[RFC5786]

. As such,

, and

,

Smirnov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8687

OSPF Routing with Cross-AF TE Tunnels

November 2019

The X-AF information is not used for SPF computation or normal routing, so the mechanism
speciﬁed here has no eﬀect on IP routing. However, generating incorrect information or
tampering with the sub-TLVs may have an eﬀect on traﬃc engineering computations.
Speciﬁcally, TE traﬃc may be delivered to the wrong tail-end router, which could lead to
suboptimal routing, traﬃc loops, or exposing the traﬃc to attacker inspection or modiﬁcation.
These threats are already present in other TE-related speciﬁcations, and their considerations
apply here as well, including

[RFC3630]

[RFC5329]

 and

.

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3630]

[RFC5329]

[RFC5786]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Katz, D., Kompella, K., and D. Yeung "Traﬃc Engineering (TE) Extensions to
OSPF Version 2" RFC 3630 DOI 10.17487/RFC3630
<https://
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3630>

, September 2003,

,

,

.

Ishiguro, K., Manral, V., Davey, A., and A. Lindem, Ed. "Traﬃc Engineering
Extensions to OSPF Version 3" RFC 5329 DOI 10.17487/RFC5329
2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5329>

, September

,

,

.

,

Aggarwal, R. and K. Kompella "Advertising a Router's Local Addresses in OSPF
, March
Traﬃc Engineering (TE) Extensions" RFC 5786 DOI 10.17487/RFC5786
2010,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5786>

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

7.2.  Informative References

,

Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

,

,

.

, April 1998,

Shen, N. and H. Smit "Calculating Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) Routes Over
Traﬃc Engineering Tunnels" RFC 3906 DOI 10.17487/RFC3906
, October 2004,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3906>

,

,

.

[RFC2328]

[RFC3906]

[RFC4461]

Smirnov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8687

OSPF Routing with Cross-AF TE Tunnels

November 2019

,

Yasukawa, S., Ed. "Signaling Requirements for Point-to-Multipoint Traﬃc-
Engineered MPLS Label Switched Paths (LSPs)" RFC 4461 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4461

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4461>

, April 2006,

,

,

.

[RFC5340]

[RFC5838]

[RFC6827]

Coltun, R., Ferguson, D., Moy, J., and A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI
10.17487/RFC5340

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

, July 2008,

,

,

,

.

Lindem, A., Ed., Mirtorabi, S., Roy, A., Barnes, M., and R. Aggarwal "Support of
Address Families in OSPFv3" RFC 5838 DOI 10.17487/RFC5838
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5838>

, April 2010,

,

,

.

Malis, A., Ed., Lindem, A., Ed., and D. Papadimitriou, Ed. "Automatically
Switched Optical Network (ASON) Routing for OSPFv2 Protocols" RFC 6827 DOI
10.17487/RFC6827

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6827>

, January 2013,

,
.

,

,

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank Peter Psenak and Eric Osborne for early discussions and Acee
Lindem for discussing compatibility with ASON extensions. Also, Eric Vyncke, Ben Kaduk, and
Roman Danyliw provided useful comments.

We would also like to thank the authors of RFC 5786 for laying down the foundation for this
work.

Authors' Addresses

Anton Smirnov
Cisco Systems, Inc.
De Kleetlaan 6a
1831 Diegem
Belgium
Email:

 as@cisco.com

Alvaro Retana
Futurewei Technologies, Inc.
2330 Central Expressway
Santa Clara CA 95050
,
United States of America
Email:

 alvaro.retana@futurewei.com

Michael Barnes
Email:

 michael_barnes@usa.net

Smirnov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

