Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8702
3370
Standards Track
January 2020
2070-1721
P. Kampanakis
Cisco Systems

Q. Dang
NIST

RFC 8702
Use of the SHAKE One-Way Hash Functions in the
Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)

Abstract

This document updates the "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) Algorithms" (RFC 3370) and
describes the conventions for using the SHAKE family of hash functions in the Cryptographic
Message Syntax as one-way hash functions with the RSA Probabilistic Signature Scheme
(RSASSA-PSS) and Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA). The conventions for the
associated signer public keys in CMS are also described.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8702

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

2.  Identiﬁers

3.  Use in CMS

3.1.  Message Digests

3.2.  Signatures

3.2.1.  RSASSA-PSS Signatures

3.2.2.  ECDSA Signatures

3.3.  Public Keys

3.4.  Message Authentication Codes

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC5652]

[RFC3370]

 describes syntax used to digitally sign, digest,

"Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)"
authenticate, or encrypt arbitrary message contents. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)
Algorithms"
 deﬁnes the use of common cryptographic algorithms with CMS. This
speciﬁcation updates RFC 3370 and describes the use of the SHAKE128 and SHAKE256 speciﬁed
in
 as new hash functions in CMS. In addition, it describes the use of these functions with
the RSA Probabilistic Signature Scheme (RSASSA-PSS) signature algorithm
Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)

 with the CMS signed-data content type.

[RFC8017]

 and the

[SHA3]

[X9.62]

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

In the SHA-3 family, two extendable-output functions (SHAKEs), SHAKE128 and SHAKE256, are
deﬁned. Four other hash function instances (SHA3-224, SHA3-256, SHA3-384, and SHA3-512) are
also deﬁned but are out of scope for this document. A SHAKE is a variable-length hash function
deﬁned as SHAKE(M, d) where the output is a d-bit-long digest of message M. The corresponding
collision and second-preimage-resistance strengths for SHAKE128 are min(d/2,128) and min
(d,128) bits, respectively (see Appendix A.1 of
). And the corresponding collision and
second-preimage-resistance strengths for SHAKE256 are min(d/2,256) and min(d,256) bits,
respectively. In this speciﬁcation, we use d=256 (for SHAKE128) and d=512 (for SHAKE256).

[SHA3]

A SHAKE can be used in CMS as the message digest function (to hash the message to be signed) in
RSASSA-PSS and ECDSA, as the message authentication code, and as the mask generation
function (MGF) in RSASSA-PSS. This speciﬁcation describes the identiﬁers for SHAKEs to be used
in CMS and their meanings.

1.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Identiﬁers

This section identiﬁes eight new object identiﬁers (OIDs) for using SHAKE128 and SHAKE256 in
CMS.

Two object identiﬁers for SHAKE128 and SHAKE256 hash functions are deﬁned in
oids]

, and we include them here for convenience.

[shake-nist-

  id-shake128 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2)
       country(16) us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3)
       nistAlgorithm(4) 2 11 }

  id-shake256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2)
       country(16) us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3)
       nistAlgorithm(4) 2 12 }

In this speciﬁcation, when using the id-shake128 or id-shake256 algorithm identiﬁers, the
parameters
OID.

 be absent. That is, the identiﬁer

 be a SEQUENCE of one component, the

SHALL

MUST

[RFC8692]
here for convenience.

 deﬁnes two identiﬁers for RSASSA-PSS signatures using SHAKEs, which we include

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

  id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
            identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
            security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6) 30 }

  id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
            identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
            security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6) 31 }

The same RSASSA-PSS algorithm identiﬁers can be used for identifying public keys and
signatures.

[RFC8692]
include here for convenience.

 also deﬁnes two algorithm identiﬁers of ECDSA signatures using SHAKEs, which we

  id-ecdsa-with-shake128 OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
            identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
            security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6) 32 }

  id-ecdsa-with-shake256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
            identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
            security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6) 33 }

The parameters for the four RSASSA-PSS and ECDSA identiﬁers
identiﬁer

 be a SEQUENCE of one component, the OID.

SHALL

MUST

 be absent. That is, each

[shake-nist-oids]

In
identiﬁers for Keccak message authentication codes (KMACs) using SHAKE128 and SHAKE256,
and we include them here for convenience.

, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) deﬁnes two object

   id-KmacWithSHAKE128 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2)
       country(16) us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3)
       nistAlgorithm(4) 2 19 }

   id-KmacWithSHAKE256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2)
       country(16) us(840) organization(1) gov(101) csor(3)
       nistAlgorithm(4) 2 20 }

The parameters for id-KmacWithSHAKE128 and id-KmacWithSHAKE256 are

.
OPTIONAL

Sections 3.1, 3.2.1, 3.2.2, and 3.4 specify the required output length for each use of SHAKE128 or
SHAKE256 in message digests, RSASSA-PSS, ECDSA, and KMAC.

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

3.  Use in CMS

3.1.  Message Digests

The id-shake128 and id-shake256 OIDs (see Section 2) can be used as the digest algorithm
identiﬁers located in the SignedData, SignerInfo, DigestedData, and the AuthenticatedData
digestAlgorithm ﬁelds in CMS
the output length of SHAKE128 or SHAKE256 as the message digest
respectively.

. The OID encoding

 be 32 or 64 bytes,

[RFC5652]

MUST

MUST

 omit the parameters ﬁeld and

The digest values are located in the DigestedData ﬁeld and the Message Digest authenticated
attribute included in the signedAttributes of the SignedData signerInfos. In addition, digest
values are input to signature algorithms. The digest algorithm
hash algorithms used in signatures.

 be the same as the message

MUST

3.2.  Signatures

In CMS, signature algorithm identiﬁers are located in the SignerInfo signatureAlgorithm ﬁeld of
signed-data content type and countersignature attribute. Signature values are located in the
SignerInfo signature ﬁeld of signed-data content type and countersignature attribute.

Conforming implementations that process RSASSA-PSS and ECDSA with SHAKE signatures when
processing CMS data

 recognize the corresponding OIDs speciﬁed in Section 2.

MUST

When using RSASSA-PSS or ECDSA with SHAKEs, the RSA modulus or ECDSA curve order
be chosen in line with the SHAKE output length. Refer to Section 5 for more details.

SHOULD

3.2.1.  RSASSA-PSS Signatures

[RFC8017]

The RSASSA-PSS algorithm is deﬁned in
RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256 (speciﬁed in Section 2) is used, the encoding
ﬁeld. That is, the AlgorithmIdentiﬁer
SHAKE128 or id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256.
[RFC4055]
deﬁne the algorithms and inputs to the algorithm. This speciﬁcation does not use parameters
because the hash, mask generation algorithm, trailer, and salt are embedded in the OID
deﬁnition.

 omit the parameters
 be a SEQUENCE of one component: id-RSASSA-PSS-
 deﬁnes RSASSA-PSS-params that are used to

. When id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128 or id-
MUST

SHALL

The hash algorithm used to hash a message being signed and the hash algorithm as the mask
generation function used in RSASSA-PSS
The output length of the hash algorithm that hashes the message
64 bytes (for SHAKE256).

 be the same: both SHAKE128 or both SHAKE256.

 be 32 (for SHAKE128) or

SHALL

MUST

The mask generation function takes an octet string of variable length and a desired output length
as input, and outputs an octet string of the desired length. In RSASSA-PSS with SHAKEs, the
SHAKEs
function in multiple iterations, as speciﬁed in
MGF is deﬁned as the SHAKE128 or SHAKE256 with input being the mgfSeed for id-RSASSA-PSS-

 be used natively as the MGF, instead of the MGF1 algorithm that uses the hash

Appendix B.2.1 of [RFC8017]

. In other words, the

MUST

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

[RFC8017]

. As explained in Step 9 of

SHAKE128 and id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256, respectively. The mgfSeed is an octet string used as the
seed to generate the mask
output length of the MGF is emLen - hLen - 1 bytes. emLen is the maximum message length ceil
((n-1)/8), where n is the RSA modulus in bits. hLen is 32 and 64 bytes for id-RSASSA-PSS-
SHAKE128 and id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256, respectively. Thus, when SHAKE is used as the MGF,
the SHAKE output length maskLen is (8*emLen - 264) or (8*emLen - 520) bits, respectively. For
example, when RSA modulus n is 2048, the output length of SHAKE128 or SHAKE256 as the MGF
will be 1784 or 1528 bits when id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128 or id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256 is used,
respectively.

Section 9.1.1 of [RFC8017]

, the

The RSASSA-PSS saltLength
RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256. Finally, the trailerField
hexadecimal value 0xBC

[RFC8017]

MUST

.

 be 32 bytes for id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128 or 64 bytes for id-

MUST

 be 1, which represents the trailer ﬁeld with

3.2.2.  ECDSA Signatures

The Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) is deﬁned in
with-shake128 or id-ecdsa-with-shake256 (speciﬁed in Section 2) algorithm identiﬁer appears, the
respective SHAKE function is used as the hash. The encoding
That is, the AlgorithmIdentiﬁer
shake128 or id-ecdsa-with-shake256.

 be a SEQUENCE of one component, the OID id-ecdsa-with-

 omit the parameters ﬁeld.

. When the id-ecdsa-

[X9.62]

SHALL

MUST

For simplicity and compliance with the ECDSA standard speciﬁcation
of the hash function must be explicitly determined. The output length for SHAKE128 or
SHAKE256 used in ECDSA

 be 32 or 64 bytes, respectively.

[X9.62]

MUST

, the output length

Conforming Certiﬁcation Authority (CA) implementations that generate ECDSA with SHAKE
signatures in certiﬁcates or Certiﬁcate Revocation Lists (CRLs)
with a deterministically generated, nonrandom k in accordance with all the requirements
speciﬁed in
[RFC6979]
recommendations in
those standards. Those standards have not speciﬁed SHAKE128 and SHAKE256 as hash algorithm
options. However, SHAKE128 and SHAKE256 with output length being 32 and 64 octets,
respectively, can be used instead of 256 and 512-bit output hash algorithms, such as SHA256 and
SHA512.

 also generate such signatures in accordance with all other

 if they have a stated policy that requires conformance to

 generate such signatures

. They
[X9.62]

MAY
 or

SHOULD

[SEC1]

3.3.  Public Keys

In CMS, the signer's public key algorithm identiﬁers are located in the OriginatorPublicKey's
algorithm attribute. The conventions and encoding for RSASSA-PSS and ECDSA public keys
algorithm identiﬁers are as speciﬁed in
Section 2.1 of [RFC5480]

,
Section 2.3 of [RFC3279] Section 3.1 of [RFC4055]

.

, and

Traditionally, the rsaEncryption object identiﬁer is used to identify RSA public keys. The
rsaEncryption object identiﬁer continues to identify the public key when the RSA private key
owner does not wish to limit the use of the public key exclusively to RSASSA-PSS with SHAKEs.
When the RSA private key owner wishes to limit the use of the public key exclusively to RSASSA-
PSS, the AlgorithmIdentiﬁer for RSASSA-PSS deﬁned in Section 2

 be used as the

SHOULD

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

algorithm attribute in the OriginatorPublicKey sequence. Conforming client implementations
that process RSASSA-PSS with SHAKE public keys in CMS message
corresponding OIDs in Section 2.

 recognize the

MUST

Conforming implementations
OIDs speciﬁed in Section 2 when encoding ECDSA with SHAKE public keys in CMS messages.

 specify and process the algorithms explicitly by using the

MUST

The identiﬁer parameters, as explained in Section 2,

MUST

 be absent.

3.4.  Message Authentication Codes

Keccak message authentication code (KMAC) is speciﬁed in
identiﬁers are located in the AuthenticatedData macAlgorithm ﬁeld. The KMAC values are
located in the AuthenticatedData mac ﬁeld.

[SP800-185]

. In CMS, KMAC algorithm

When the id-KmacWithSHAKE128 or id-KmacWithSHAKE256 OID is used as the MAC algorithm
identiﬁer, the parameters ﬁeld is optional (absent or present). If absent, the SHAKE256 output
length used in KMAC is 32 or 64 bytes, respectively, and the customization string is an empty
string by default.

Conforming implementations that process KMACs with the SHAKEs when processing CMS data
MUST

 recognize these identiﬁers.

When calculating the KMAC output, the variable N is 0xD2B282C2, S is an empty string, and L
(the integer representing the requested output length in bits) is 256 or 512 for
KmacWithSHAKE128 or KmacWithSHAKE256, respectively, in this speciﬁcation.

4.  IANA Considerations

One object identiﬁer for the ASN.1 module in Appendix A was updated in the "Structure of
Management Information (SMI) Security for S/MIME Module Identiﬁer (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)"
registry:

Decimal

Description

References

70

CMSAlgsForSHAKE-2019

RFC 8702

Table 1

5.  Security Considerations

This document updates
to this speciﬁcation as well.

[RFC3370]

. The security considerations section of that document applies

NIST has deﬁned appropriate use of the hash functions in terms of the algorithm strengths and
[SP800-107]
expected time frames for secure use in Special Publications (SPs)
.
These documents can be used as guides to choose appropriate key sizes for various security
scenarios.

[SP800-78-4]

 and

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

SHAKE128 with an output length of 32 bytes oﬀers 128 bits of collision and preimage resistance.
Thus, SHAKE128 OIDs in this speciﬁcation are
 with a 2048- (112-bit security) or
3072-bit (128-bit security) RSA modulus or curves with a group order of 256 bits (128-bit
security). SHAKE256 with a 64-byte output length oﬀers 256 bits of collision and preimage
 with 4096-bit RSA
resistance. Thus, the SHAKE256 OIDs in this speciﬁcation are
modulus or higher or curves with group order of at least 512 bits, such as NIST curve P-521 (256-
bit security). Note that we recommended a 4096-bit RSA because we would need a 15360-bit
modulus for 256 bits of security, which is impractical for today's technology.

RECOMMENDED

RECOMMENDED

When more than two parties share the same message-authentication key, data origin
authentication is not provided. Any party that knows the message-authentication key can
compute a valid MAC; therefore, the content could originate from any one of the parties.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3370]

[RFC4055]

[RFC5480]

[RFC5652]

[RFC8017]

[RFC8174]

[SHA3]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) Algorithms" RFC 3370 DOI
10.17487/RFC3370

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3370>

, August 2002,

,

,

,
Schaad, J., Kaliski, B., and R. Housley "Additional Algorithms and Identiﬁers for
RSA Cryptography for use in the Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure
Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC 4055 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4055>
RFC4055

, June 2005,

,

,

.

Turner, S., Brown, D., Yiu, K., Housley, R., and T. Polk "Elliptic Curve
,
Cryptography Subject Public Key Information" RFC 5480 DOI 10.17487/RFC5480
March 2009,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5480>

,

,

.

,

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

Moriarty, K., Ed., Kaliski, B., Jonsson, J., and A. Rusch "PKCS #1: RSA
Cryptography Speciﬁcations Version 2.2" RFC 8017 DOI 10.17487/RFC8017
November 2016,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8017>

.

,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "SHA-3 Standard:
Permutation-Based Hash and Extendable-Output Functions" FIPS PUB 202 DOI
10.6028/NIST.FIPS.202
NIST.FIPS.202.pdf>

,
<https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/

, August 2015,

,

.

,

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

[SP800-185]

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "SHA-3 Derived
Functions: cSHAKE, KMAC, TupleHash and ParallelHash" NIST Special
,
Publication 800-185 DOI 10.6028/NIST.SP.800-185
, December 2016,
nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-185.pdf>

<http://
.

,

,

6.2.  Informative References

[CMS-SHA3]

[RFC3279]

[RFC5753]

[RFC5911]

[RFC6268]

[RFC6979]

[RFC8692]

[SEC1]

,

Housley, R. "Use of the SHA3 One-way Hash Functions in the Cryptographic
Message Syntax (CMS)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-housley-lamps-
cms-sha3-hash-00
lamps-cms-sha3-hash-00>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-housley-

, 27 March 2017,
.

,

,

Bassham, L., Polk, W., and R. Housley "Algorithms and Identiﬁers for the
Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation
List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC 3279 DOI 10.17487/RFC3279
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3279>

, April 2002,

<https://

.

,

,

,

Turner, S. and D. Brown "Use of Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) Algorithms
in Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" RFC 5753 DOI 10.17487/RFC5753
January 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5753>

,

,

,

.

,

Hoﬀman, P. and J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for Cryptographic Message
,
Syntax (CMS) and S/MIME" RFC 5911 DOI 10.17487/RFC5911
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5911>

, June 2010,

,

.

,

<https://

,

Schaad, J. and S. Turner "Additional New ASN.1 Modules for the Cryptographic
,
Message Syntax (CMS) and the Public Key Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)"
, July 2011,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 6268 DOI 10.17487/RFC6268
rfc6268>

,
.

,

Pornin, T. "Deterministic Usage of the Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) and
Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)" RFC 6979 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6979

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6979>

, August 2013,

,

,

.

Kampanakis, P. and Q. Dang "Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure:
Additional Algorithm Identiﬁers for RSASSA-PSS and ECDSA Using SHAKEs" RFC
,
8692 DOI 10.17487/RFC8692
rfc8692>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2019,

,

.

,

Standards for Eﬃcient Cryptography Group "SEC 1: Elliptic Curve
Cryptography"

,
<http://www.secg.org/sec1-v2.pdf>

, May 2009,

.

[shake-nist-oids]

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Computer Security

,

, October 2019,
Objects Register"
Security-Objects-Register/Algorithm-Registration>

.

<https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Computer-

[SP800-107]

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Recommendation for
Applications Using Approved Hash Algorithms" Draft NIST Special Publication

,

,

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

800-107 Revised
nistspecialpublication800-107r1.pdf>

, August 2012,

.

<https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/

[SP800-78-4]

[X9.62]

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Cryptographic
Algorithms and Key Sizes for Personal Identity Veriﬁcation" NIST Special
Publication 800-78-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.SP.800-78-4
nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-78-4.pdf>

, May 2015,

<https://

.

,

,

,

American National Standard for Financial Services (ANSI) "Public Key
Cryptography for the Financial Services Industry: the Elliptic Curve Digital
Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)" ANSI X9.62

, November 2005.

,

,

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

This appendix includes the ASN.1 modules for SHAKEs in CMS. This module includes some ASN.1
from other standards for reference.

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

CMSAlgsForSHAKE-2019 { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840)
     rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9) smime(16) modules(0)
     id-mod-cms-shakes-2019(70) }

DEFINITIONS EXPLICIT TAGS ::=

BEGIN

-- EXPORTS ALL;

IMPORTS

DIGEST-ALGORITHM, MAC-ALGORITHM, SMIME-CAPS
FROM AlgorithmInformation-2009
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1) security(5)
    mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
    id-mod-algorithmInformation-02(58) }

RSAPublicKey, rsaEncryption, id-ecPublicKey
FROM PKIXAlgs-2009 { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6)
     internet(1) security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
     id-mod-pkix1-algorithms2008-02(56) }

sa-rsassapssWithSHAKE128, sa-rsassapssWithSHAKE256,
sa-ecdsaWithSHAKE128, sa-ecdsaWithSHAKE256
FROM PKIXAlgsForSHAKE-2019 {
   iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6)
   internet(1) security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
   id-mod-pkix1-shakes-2019(94) } ;

-- Message digest Algorithms (mda-)
-- used in SignedData, SignerInfo, DigestedData,
-- and the AuthenticatedData digestAlgorithm
-- fields in CMS
--
--  This expands MessageAuthAlgs from [RFC5652] and
--  MessageDigestAlgs in [RFC5753]
--
-- MessageDigestAlgs DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
--  mda-shake128   |
--  mda-shake256,
--  ...
-- }

--
-- One-Way Hash Functions
-- SHAKE128
mda-shake128 DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {
  IDENTIFIER id-shake128  -- with output length 32 bytes.
}
id-shake128 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2) country(16)
                                    us(840) organization(1) gov(101)
                                    csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4)
                                    hashAlgs(2) 11 }

-- SHAKE256
mda-shake256 DIGEST-ALGORITHM ::= {

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

  IDENTIFIER id-shake256  -- with output length 64 bytes.
}
id-shake256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2) country(16)
                                    us(840) organization(1) gov(101)
                                    csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4)
                                    hashAlgs(2) 12 }

--
-- Public key algorithm identifiers located in the
-- OriginatorPublicKey's algorithm attribute in CMS.
-- And Signature identifiers used in SignerInfo
-- signatureAlgorithm field of signed-data content
-- type and countersignature attribute in CMS.
--
-- From RFC 5280, for reference:
-- rsaEncryption OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=  { pkcs-1 1 }
   -- When the rsaEncryption algorithm identifier is used
   -- for a public key, the AlgorithmIdentifier parameters
   -- field MUST contain NULL.
--
id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE128  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
         identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
         security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6) 30 }

id-RSASSA-PSS-SHAKE256  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
         identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
         security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6) 31 }

   -- When the id-RSASSA-PSS-* algorithm identifiers are used
   -- for a public key or signature in CMS, the AlgorithmIdentifier
   -- parameters field MUST be absent.  The message digest algorithm
   -- used in RSASSA-PSS MUST be SHAKE128 or SHAKE256 with a 32- or
   -- 64-byte output length, respectively.  The mask generation
   -- function MUST be SHAKE128 or SHAKE256 with an output length
   -- of (8*ceil((n-1)/8) - 264) or (8*ceil((n-1)/8) - 520) bits,
   -- respectively, where n is the RSA modulus in bits.
   -- The RSASSA-PSS saltLength MUST be 32 or 64 bytes, respectively.
   -- The trailerField MUST be 1, which represents the trailer
   -- field with hexadecimal value 0xBC.  Regardless of
   -- id-RSASSA-PSS-* or rsaEncryption being used as the
   -- AlgorithmIdentifier of the OriginatorPublicKey, the RSA
   -- public key MUST be encoded using the RSAPublicKey type.

-- From RFC 4055, for reference:
-- RSAPublicKey ::= SEQUENCE {
--   modulus INTEGER, -- -- n
--   publicExponent INTEGER } -- -- e

id-ecdsa-with-shake128 OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
         identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
         security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6) 32 }

id-ecdsa-with-shake256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { iso(1)
         identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
         security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) algorithms(6) 33 }

   -- When the id-ecdsa-with-shake* algorithm identifiers are
   -- used in CMS, the AlgorithmIdentifier parameters field

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

   -- MUST be absent and the signature algorithm should be
   -- deterministic ECDSA [RFC6979].  The message digest MUST
   -- be SHAKE128 or SHAKE256 with a 32- or 64-byte output
   -- length, respectively.  In both cases, the ECDSA public key,
   -- MUST be encoded using the id-ecPublicKey type.

-- From RFC 5480, for reference:
-- id-ecPublicKey OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {
--    iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) ansi-X9-62(10045) keyType(2) 1 }
     -- The id-ecPublicKey parameters must be absent or present
     -- and are defined as:
-- ECParameters ::= CHOICE {
--     namedCurve         OBJECT IDENTIFIER
--     -- -- implicitCurve   NULL
--     -- -- specifiedCurve  SpecifiedECDomain
--  }

-- This expands SignatureAlgs from [RFC5912]
--
-- SignatureAlgs SIGNATURE-ALGORITHM ::= {
--   sa-rsassapssWithSHAKE128 |
--   sa-rsassapssWithSHAKE256 |
--   sa-ecdsaWithSHAKE128 |
--   sa-ecdsaWithSHAKE256,
--   ...
-- }

-- This expands MessageAuthAlgs from [RFC5652] and [RFC6268]
--
-- Message Authentication (maca-) Algorithms
-- used in AuthenticatedData macAlgorithm in CMS
--
MessageAuthAlgs MAC-ALGORITHM ::= {
    maca-KMACwithSHAKE128   |
    maca-KMACwithSHAKE256,
    ...
}

-- This expands SMimeCaps from [RFC5911]
--
SMimeCaps SMIME-CAPS ::= {
   -- sa-rsassapssWithSHAKE128.&smimeCaps |
   -- sa-rsassapssWithSHAKE256.&smimeCaps |
   -- sa-ecdsaWithSHAKE128.&smimeCaps |
   -- sa-ecdsaWithSHAKE256.&smimeCaps,
   maca-KMACwithSHAKE128.&smimeCaps   |
   maca-KMACwithSHAKE256.&smimeCaps,
   ...
 }

--
-- KMAC with SHAKE128
maca-KMACwithSHAKE128 MAC-ALGORITHM ::= {
      IDENTIFIER id-KMACWithSHAKE128
      PARAMS TYPE KMACwithSHAKE128-params ARE optional
        -- If KMACwithSHAKE128-params parameters are absent,
        -- the SHAKE128 output length used in KMAC is 256 bits
        -- and the customization string is an empty string.

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

      IS-KEYED-MAC TRUE
      SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY id-KMACWithSHAKE128}
}
id-KMACWithSHAKE128 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=  { joint-iso-itu-t(2)
                             country(16) us(840) organization(1)
                             gov(101) csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4)
                             hashAlgs(2) 19 }
KMACwithSHAKE128-params ::= SEQUENCE {
  kMACOutputLength     INTEGER DEFAULT 256, -- Output length in bits
  customizationString  OCTET STRING DEFAULT ''H
}

-- KMAC with SHAKE256
maca-KMACwithSHAKE256 MAC-ALGORITHM ::= {
      IDENTIFIER id-KMACWithSHAKE256
      PARAMS TYPE KMACwithSHAKE256-params ARE optional
         -- If KMACwithSHAKE256-params parameters are absent,
         -- the SHAKE256 output length used in KMAC is 512 bits
         -- and the customization string is an empty string.
      IS-KEYED-MAC TRUE
      SMIME-CAPS {IDENTIFIED BY id-KMACWithSHAKE256}
}
id-KMACWithSHAKE256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=  { joint-iso-itu-t(2)
                            country(16) us(840) organization(1)
                            gov(101) csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4)
                            hashAlgs(2) 20 }
KMACwithSHAKE256-params ::= SEQUENCE {
   kMACOutputLength     INTEGER DEFAULT 512, -- Output length in bits
   customizationString  OCTET STRING DEFAULT ''H
}

END

Acknowledgements

[CMS-SHA3]
This document is based on
Russ Housley
functions by SHAKE128 and SHAKE256, as the LAMPS WG agreed.

's document

. It replaces SHA3 hash

Russ Housley
The authors would like to thank
with the ASN.1 module. Valuable feedback was also provided by Eric Rescorla.

 for his guidance and very valuable contributions

Authors' Addresses

Panos Kampanakis
Cisco Systems
Email:

 pkampana@cisco.com

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8702

SHAKEs in CMS

January 2020

Quynh Dang
NIST
100 Bureau Drive
Gaithersburg MD 20899
United States of America
Email:

,

 quynh.Dang@nist.gov

Kampanakis & Dang

Standards Track

Page 16

