Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8835
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
H. Alvestrand
Google

RFC 8835
Transports for WebRTC

Abstract

This document describes the data transport protocols used by Web Real-Time Communication
(WebRTC), including the protocols used for interaction with intermediate boxes such as ﬁrewalls,
relays, and NAT boxes.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8835

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8835

WebRTC Transports

January 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Transport and Middlebox Speciﬁcation

3.1.  System-Provided Interfaces

3.2.  Ability to Use IPv4 and IPv6

3.3.  Usage of Temporary IPv6 Addresses

3.4.  Middlebox-Related Functions

3.5.  Transport Protocols Implemented

4.  Media Prioritization

4.1.  Local Prioritization

4.2.  Usage of Quality of Service -- DSCP and Multiplexing

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

WebRTC is a protocol suite aimed at real-time multimedia exchange between browsers, and
between browsers and other entities.

WebRTC is described in the WebRTC overview document
terminology used in this document, including the terms "WebRTC endpoint" and "WebRTC
browser".

, which also deﬁnes

[RFC8825]

Terminology for RTP sources is taken from

.
[RFC7656]

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8835

WebRTC Transports

January 2021

This document focuses on the data transport protocols that are used by conforming
implementations, including the protocols used for interaction with intermediate boxes such as
ﬁrewalls, relays, and NAT boxes.

This protocol suite is intended to satisfy the security considerations described in the WebRTC
.
security documents,

[RFC8827]

[RFC8826]

 and

This document describes requirements that apply to all WebRTC endpoints. When there are
requirements that apply only to WebRTC browsers, this is called out explicitly.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Transport and Middlebox Speciﬁcation

3.1.  System-Provided Interfaces

The protocol speciﬁcations used here assume that the following protocols are available to the
implementations of the WebRTC protocols:

UDP

[RFC0768]

:

This is the protocol assumed by most protocol elements described.

TCP

[RFC0793]

:

This is used for HTTP/WebSockets, as well as TURN/TLS and ICE-TCP.

For both protocols, IPv4 and IPv6 support is assumed.

For UDP, this speciﬁcation assumes the ability to set the Diﬀerentiated Services Code Point (DSCP)
of the sockets opened on a per-packet basis, in order to achieve the prioritizations described in
 (see Section 4.2 of this document) when multiple media types are multiplexed. It does
[RFC8837]
not assume that the DSCPs will be honored and does assume that they may be zeroed or changed,
since this is a local conﬁguration issue.

Platforms that do not give access to these interfaces will not be able to support a conforming
WebRTC endpoint.

This speciﬁcation does not assume that the implementation will have access to ICMP or raw IP.

The following protocols may be used, but they can be implemented by a WebRTC endpoint and
are therefore not deﬁned as "system-provided interfaces":

TURN:

Traversal Using Relays Around NAT

[RFC8656]

STUN:

Session Traversal Utilities for NAT

[RFC5389]

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8835

WebRTC Transports

January 2021

ICE:

Interactive Connectivity Establishment

[RFC8445]

TLS:

Transport Layer Security

[RFC8446]

DTLS:

Datagram Transport Layer Security

[RFC6347]

3.2.  Ability to Use IPv4 and IPv6

Web applications running in a WebRTC browser
where available -- that is, when two peers have only IPv4 connectivity to each other, or they have
only IPv6 connectivity to each other, applications running in the WebRTC browser
to communicate.

 be able to utilize both IPv4 and IPv6

 be able

MUST

MUST

When TURN is used, and the TURN server has IPv4 or IPv6 connectivity to the peer or the peer's
TURN server, candidates of the appropriate types
speciﬁcation for ICE

 be supported. The "Happy Eyeballs"

[RFC8421] SHOULD

 be supported.

MUST

3.3.  Usage of Temporary IPv6 Addresses

[RFC6724]

[RFC3484]

 are to be preferred over permanent addresses. This is a change from the rules

The IPv6 default address selection speciﬁcation
[RFC4941]
speciﬁed by
IPV6_PREFER_SRC_TMP preference ﬂag speciﬁed in
intended to ensure that privacy-enhanced addresses are used in preference to static addresses,
doesn't have the right eﬀect in ICE, where all addresses are gathered and therefore revealed to
the application. Therefore, the following rule is applied instead:

. For applications that select a single address, this is usually done by the

 speciﬁes that temporary addresses

. However, this rule, which is

[RFC5014]

When a WebRTC endpoint gathers all IPv6 addresses on its host, and both nondeprecated
temporary addresses and permanent addresses of the same scope are present, the WebRTC
endpoint
application or using them in ICE. This is consistent with the default policy described in
.
[RFC6724]

 discard the permanent addresses before exposing addresses to the

SHOULD

If some, but not all, of the temporary IPv6 addresses are marked deprecated, the WebRTC
endpoint
connection. In an ICE restart, deprecated addresses that are currently in use

 discard the deprecated addresses, unless they are used by an ongoing

SHOULD

MAY

 be retained.

3.4.  Middlebox-Related Functions

The primary mechanism for dealing with middleboxes is ICE, which is an appropriate way to
deal with NAT boxes and ﬁrewalls that accept traﬃc from the inside, but only from the outside if
it is in response to inside traﬃc (simple stateful ﬁrewalls).

[RFC8445] MUST

ICE
ICE-Lite. A full ICE implementation allows interworking with both ICE and ICE-Lite
implementations when they are deployed appropriately.

 be supported. The implementation

MUST

 be a full ICE implementation, not

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8835

WebRTC Transports

January 2021

In order to deal with situations where both parties are behind NATs of the type that perform
endpoint-dependent mapping (as deﬁned in
supported.

[RFC5128], Section 2.4

[RFC8656] MUST

), TURN

 be

WebRTC browsers
conﬁguration and an application.

MUST

 support conﬁguration of STUN and TURN servers, from both browser

Note that other work exists around STUN and TURN server discovery and management,
including

 for server discovery, as well as

.
[RETURN]

[RFC8155]

In order to deal with ﬁrewalls that block all UDP traﬃc, the mode of TURN that uses TCP between
the WebRTC endpoint and the TURN server
TLS over TCP between the WebRTC endpoint and the TURN server
Section 3.1 of [RFC8656]

 be supported, and the mode of TURN that uses

 be supported. See

, for details.

MUST

MUST

In order to deal with situations where one party is on an IPv4 network and the other party is on
an IPv6 network, TURN extensions for IPv6

 be supported.

MUST

TURN TCP candidates, where the connection from the WebRTC endpoint's TURN server to the
peer is a TCP connection,

[RFC6062] MAY

 be supported.

However, such candidates are not seen as providing any signiﬁcant beneﬁt, for the following
reasons.

First, use of TURN TCP candidates would only be relevant in cases where both peers are required
to use TCP to establish a connection.

Second, that use case is supported in a diﬀerent way by both sides establishing UDP relay
candidates using TURN over TCP to connect to their respective relay servers.

Third, using TCP between the WebRTC endpoint's TURN server and the peer may result in more
performance problems than using UDP, e.g., due to head of line blocking.

ICE-TCP candidates
to peers with public IP addresses across UDP-blocking ﬁrewalls without using a TURN server.

 be supported; this may allow applications to communicate

[RFC6544] MUST

If TCP connections are used, RTP framing according to
This includes the RTP packets, DTLS packets used to carry data channels, and STUN connectivity
check packets.

 be used for all packets.

[RFC4571] MUST

The ALTERNATE-SERVER mechanism speciﬁed in
MUST

 be supported.

Section 11 of [RFC5389]

 (300 Try Alternate)

The WebRTC endpoint
MUST
described in

 include the "ALPN" header as speciﬁed in
Section 4.3.6 of [RFC7231]

 and

[RFC7639]

, and proxy authentication as

[RFC7235] MUST

 also be supported.

MAY

 support accessing the Internet through an HTTP proxy. If it does so, it

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8835

WebRTC Transports

January 2021

3.5.  Transport Protocols Implemented

For transport of media, secure RTP is used. The details of the RTP proﬁle used are described in
"Media Transport and Use of RTP in WebRTC"
breaker

, which mandates the use of a circuit

 and congestion control (see

 for further guidance).

[RFC8834]

[RFC8836]

[RFC8083]

Key exchange

MUST

 be done using DTLS-SRTP, as described in

.
[RFC8827]

For data transport over the WebRTC data channel
[RFC8831]
SCTP over DTLS over ICE. This encapsulation is speciﬁed in
transport in the Session Description Protocol (SDP) is deﬁned in
for I-DATA

[RFC8260] MUST

 be supported.

, WebRTC endpoints
[RFC8261]

. Negotiation of this

MUST

 support

[RFC8841]

. The SCTP extension

The setup protocol for WebRTC data channels described in

[RFC8832] MUST

 be supported.

[RFC8445]

Note: The interaction between DTLS-SRTP as deﬁned in
deﬁned in
 is described in
speciﬁcation is that all ICE candidate pairs associated with a single component are
part of the same DTLS association. Thus, there will only be one DTLS handshake,
even if there are multiple valid candidate pairs.

 and ICE as
. The eﬀect of this

Section 6 of [RFC8842]

[RFC5764]

WebRTC endpoints
described in the DTLS-SRTP speciﬁcation
[RFC7983]

MUST

[RFC5764], Section 5.1.2
. All application-layer protocol payloads over this DTLS connection are SCTP packets.

, with clariﬁcations in

 support multiplexing of DTLS and RTP over the same port pair, as

Protocol identiﬁcation
.
[RFC8833]

MUST

 be supplied as part of the DTLS handshake, as speciﬁed in

4.  Media Prioritization

In the WebRTC prioritization model, the application tells the WebRTC endpoint about the priority
of media and data that is controlled from the API.

In this context, a "ﬂow" is used for the units that are given a speciﬁc priority through the WebRTC
API.

For media, a "media ﬂow", which can be an "audio ﬂow" or a "video ﬂow", is what
calls a "media source", which results in a "source RTP stream" and one or more "redundancy RTP
streams". This speciﬁcation does not describe prioritization between the RTP streams that come
from a single media source.

[RFC7656]

All media ﬂows in WebRTC are assumed to be interactive, as deﬁned in
browser API support for indicating whether media is interactive or noninteractive.

[RFC4594]

; there is no

A "data ﬂow" is the outgoing data on a single WebRTC data channel.

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8835

WebRTC Transports

January 2021

The priority associated with a media ﬂow or data ﬂow is classiﬁed as "very-low", "low",
"medium", or "high". There are only four priority levels in the API.

The priority settings aﬀect two pieces of behavior: packet send sequence decisions and packet
markings. Each is described in its own section below.

4.1.  Local Prioritization

Local prioritization is applied at the local node, before the packet is sent. This means that the
prioritization has full access to the data about the individual packets and can choose diﬀering
treatment based on the stream a packet belongs to.

When a WebRTC endpoint has packets to send on multiple streams that are congestion controlled
under the same congestion control regime, the WebRTC endpoint
emitted in such a way that each stream at each level of priority is being given approximately
twice the transmission capacity (measured in payload bytes) of the level below.

 cause data to be

SHOULD

Thus, when congestion occurs, a high-priority ﬂow will have the ability to send 8 times as much
data as a very-low-priority ﬂow if both have data to send. This prioritization is independent of
the media type. The details of which packet to send ﬁrst are implementation deﬁned.

For example, if there is a high-priority audio ﬂow sending 100-byte packets and a low-priority
video ﬂow sending 1000-byte packets, and outgoing capacity exists for sending > 5000 payload
bytes, it would be appropriate to send 4000 bytes (40 packets) of audio and 1000 bytes (one
packet) of video as the result of a single pass of sending decisions.

Conversely, if the audio ﬂow is marked low priority and the video ﬂow is marked high priority,
the scheduler may decide to send 2 video packets (2000 bytes) and 5 audio packets (500 bytes)
when outgoing capacity exists for sending > 2500 payload bytes.

If there are two high-priority audio ﬂows, each will be able to send 4000 bytes in the same period
where a low-priority video ﬂow is able to send 1000 bytes.

Two example implementation strategies are:

•

When the available bandwidth is known from the congestion control algorithm, conﬁgure
each codec and each data channel with a target send rate that is appropriate to its share of
the available bandwidth.

•

When congestion control indicates that a speciﬁed number of packets can be sent, send
packets that are available to send using a weighted round-robin scheme across the
connections.

Any combination of these, or other schemes that have the same eﬀect, is valid, as long as the
distribution of transmission capacity is approximately correct.

For media, it is usually inappropriate to use deep queues for sending; it is more useful to, for
instance, skip intermediate frames that have no dependencies on them in order to achieve a
lower bitrate. For reliable data, queues are useful.

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8835

WebRTC Transports

January 2021

Note that this speciﬁcation doesn't dictate when disparate streams are to be "congestion
controlled under the same congestion control regime". The issue of coupling congestion
.
controllers is explored further in

[RFC8699]

4.2.  Usage of Quality of Service -- DSCP and Multiplexing

When the packet is sent, the network will make decisions about queueing and/or discarding the
packet that can aﬀect the quality of the communication. The sender can attempt to set the DSCP
ﬁeld of the packet to inﬂuence these decisions.

Implementations
[RFC8837]
where QoS marking is not implemented.

SHOULD

 attempt to set QoS on the packets sent, according to the guidelines in

. It is appropriate to depart from this recommendation when running on platforms

MAY

The implementation
 turn oﬀ use of DSCP markings if it detects symptoms of unexpected
behavior such as priority inversion or blocking of packets with certain DSCP markings. Some
examples of such behaviors are described in
implementation dependent.

. The detection of these conditions is

[ANRW16]

[RFC8837]

. Implementations need to diagnose this scenario; one possible

A particularly hard problem is when one media transport uses multiple DSCPs, where one may
be blocked and another may be allowed. This is allowed even within a single media ﬂow for
video in
implementation is to send initial ICE probes with DSCP 0, and send ICE probes on all the DSCPs
that are intended to be used once a candidate pair has been selected. If one or more of the DSCP-
marked probes fail, the sender will switch the media type to using DSCP 0. This can be carried
out simultaneously with the initial media traﬃc; on failure, the initial data may need to be
resent. This switch will, of course, invalidate any congestion information gathered up to that
point.

Failures can also start happening during the lifetime of the call; this case is expected to be rarer
and can be handled by the normal mechanisms for transport failure, which may involve an ICE
restart.

Note that when a DSCP causes nondelivery, one has to switch the whole media ﬂow to DSCP 0,
since all traﬃc for a single media ﬂow needs to be on the same queue for congestion control
purposes. Other ﬂows on the same transport, using diﬀerent DSCPs, don't need to change.

 use a
All packets carrying data from the SCTP association supporting the data channels
MUST
single DSCP. The code point used
 for the highest-
priority data channel carried. Note that this means that all data packets, no matter what their
relative priority is, will be treated the same by the network.

 be that recommended by

[RFC8837]

SHOULD

All packets on one TCP connection, no matter what it carries,

MUST

 use a single DSCP.

More advice on the use of DSCPs with RTP, as well as the relationship between DSCP and
congestion control, is given in

[RFC7657]

.

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8835

WebRTC Transports

January 2021

There exist a number of schemes for achieving quality of service that do not depend solely on
DSCPs. Some of these schemes depend on classifying the traﬃc into ﬂows based on 5-tuple
(source address, source port, protocol, destination address, destination port) or 6-tuple (5-tuple +
DSCP). Under diﬀering conditions, it may therefore make sense for a sending application to
choose any of the following conﬁgurations:

•

Each media stream carried on its own 5-tuple

•

Media streams grouped by media type into 5-tuples (such as carrying all audio on one 5-
tuple)

•

All media sent over a single 5-tuple, with or without diﬀerentiation into 6-tuples based on
DSCPs

In each of the conﬁgurations mentioned, data channels may be carried in their own 5-tuple or
multiplexed together with one of the media ﬂows.

More complex conﬁgurations, such as sending a high-priority video stream on one 5-tuple and
sending all other video streams multiplexed together over another 5-tuple, can also be
envisioned. More information on mapping media ﬂows to 5-tuples can be found in

[RFC8834]
.

A sending implementation

MUST

 be able to support the following conﬁgurations:

•

Multiplex all media and data on a single 5-tuple (fully bundled)

•

Send each media stream on its own 5-tuple and data on its own 5-tuple (fully unbundled)

The sending implementation
media type (audio, video, or data) into its own 5-tuple (bundling by media type).

 choose to support other conﬁgurations, such as bundling each

MAY

Sending data channel data over multiple 5-tuples is not supported.

A receiving implementation

MUST

 be able to receive media and data in all these conﬁgurations.

5.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

6.  Security Considerations

WebRTC security considerations are enumerated in

[RFC8826]
.

Security considerations pertaining to the use of DSCP are enumerated in

[RFC8837]
.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC0768]

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8835

WebRTC Transports

January 2021

,

Postel, J. "User Datagram Protocol" STD 6 RFC 768 DOI 10.17487/RFC0768
August 1980,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc768>

,

,

,

.

,

[RFC0793]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4571]

[RFC4594]

[RFC4941]

[RFC5389]

[RFC5764]

[RFC6062]

[RFC6347]

[RFC6544]

[RFC6724]

[RFC7231]

Postel, J. "Transmission Control Protocol" STD 7 RFC 793 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC0793
, September 1981,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc793>

.

,

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Lazzaro, J. "Framing Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) and RTP Control
Protocol (RTCP) Packets over Connection-Oriented Transport" RFC 4571 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC4571

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4571>

, July 2006,

,

.

Babiarz, J., Chan, K., and F. Baker "Conﬁguration Guidelines for DiﬀServ Service
Classes" RFC 4594 DOI 10.17487/RFC4594
editor.org/info/rfc4594>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2006,

,

,

,

.

Narten, T., Draves, R., and S. Krishnan "Privacy Extensions for Stateless Address
Autoconﬁguration in IPv6" RFC 4941 DOI 10.17487/RFC4941
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4941>

, September 2007,

,
,

,

.

Rosenberg, J., Mahy, R., Matthews, P., and D. Wing "Session Traversal Utilities for
NAT (STUN)" RFC 5389 DOI 10.17487/RFC5389
,
editor.org/info/rfc5389>
.

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2008,

,

,

McGrew, D. and E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)"
RFC 5764 DOI 10.17487/RFC5764
rfc5764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2010,

,
.

,

,

Perreault, S., Ed. and J. Rosenberg "Traversal Using Relays around NAT (TURN)
,
Extensions for TCP Allocations" RFC 6062 DOI 10.17487/RFC6062
2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6062>

, November

.

,

,

,
Rescorla, E. and N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
, January 2012,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
rfc6347>

,
.

,

Rosenberg, J., Keranen, A., Lowekamp, B. B., and A. B. Roach "TCP Candidates
with Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)" RFC 6544 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6544

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6544>

, March 2012,

,
,

,

.

Thaler, D., Ed., Draves, R., Matsumoto, A., and T. Chown "Default Address
Selection for Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 6724 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6724

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6724>

, September 2012,

,

.

,

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Semantics and Content" RFC 7231 DOI 10.17487/RFC7231
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7231>

, June 2014,

,
,
.

<https://

,

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8835

WebRTC Transports

January 2021

[RFC7235]

[RFC7639]

[RFC7656]

[RFC7983]

[RFC8083]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8260]

[RFC8261]

[RFC8421]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8446]

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Authentication" RFC 7235 DOI 10.17487/RFC7235
.
editor.org/info/rfc7235>

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,
Hutton, A., Uberti, J., and M. Thomson "The ALPN HTTP Header Field" RFC
,
7639 DOI 10.17487/RFC7639
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc7639>

, August 2015,

,

.

Lennox, J., Gross, K., Nandakumar, S., Salgueiro, G., and B. Burman, Ed. "A
Taxonomy of Semantics and Mechanisms for Real-Time Transport Protocol
(RTP) Sources" RFC 7656 DOI 10.17487/RFC7656
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7656>

, November 2015,

,

,

.

,

Petit-Huguenin, M. and G. Salgueiro "Multiplexing Scheme Updates for Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) Extension for Datagram Transport Layer
,
Security (DTLS)" RFC 7983 DOI 10.17487/RFC7983
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7983>

, September 2016,

,

.

,

Perkins, C. and V. Singh "Multimedia Congestion Control: Circuit Breakers for
,
<https://
Unicast RTP Sessions" RFC 8083 DOI 10.17487/RFC8083
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8083>

, March 2017,

.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Stewart, R., Tuexen, M., Loreto, S., and R. Seggelmann "Stream Schedulers and
User Message Interleaving for the Stream Control Transmission Protocol" RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
8260 DOI 10.17487/RFC8260
rfc8260>

, November 2017,

,

.

,

Tuexen, M., Stewart, R., Jesup, R., and S. Loreto "Datagram Transport Layer
Security (DTLS) Encapsulation of SCTP Packets" RFC 8261 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8261

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8261>

, November 2017,

,

.

Martinsen, P., Reddy, T., and P. Patil "Guidelines for Multihomed and IPv4/IPv6
Dual-Stack Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)" BCP 217 RFC 8421 DOI
10.17487/RFC8421

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8421>

, July 2018,

,

,

,

.

,

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8835

WebRTC Transports

January 2021

[RFC8656]

[RFC8825]

[RFC8826]

[RFC8827]

[RFC8831]

[RFC8832]

[RFC8833]

[RFC8834]

[RFC8836]

[RFC8837]

[RFC8841]

[RFC8842]

Reddy, T., Ed., Johnston, A., Ed., Matthews, P., and J. Rosenberg "Traversal Using
Relays around NAT (TURN): Relay Extensions to Session Traversal Utilities for
NAT (STUN)" RFC 8656 DOI 10.17487/RFC8656
,
editor.org/info/rfc8656>
.

, February 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

Alvestrand, H. "Overview: Real-Time Protocols for Browser-Based Applications"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 8825 DOI 10.17487/RFC8825
, January 2021,
rfc8825>

,
.

Rescorla, E. "Security Considerations for WebRTC" RFC 8826 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8826

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8826>

, January 2021,

,

,

,

.

Rescorla, E. "WebRTC Security Architecture" RFC 8827 DOI 10.17487/RFC8827
January 2021,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8827>
.

,

,

,

Jesup, R., Loreto, S., and M. Tüxen "WebRTC Data Channels" RFC 8831 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8831>
10.17487/RFC8831
.

, January 2021,

,

,

Jesup, R., Loreto, S., and M. Tüxen "WebRTC Data Channel Establishment
Protocol" RFC 8832 DOI 10.17487/RFC8832
editor.org/info/rfc8832>

, January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,
Thomson, M. "Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) for WebRTC" RFC
,
8833 DOI 10.17487/RFC8833
rfc8833>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2021,

.

,
Perkins, C., Westerlund, M., and J. Ott "Media Transport and Use of RTP in
WebRTC" RFC 8834 DOI 10.17487/RFC8834
editor.org/info/rfc8834>

, January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

Jesup, R. and Z. Sarker, Ed. "Congestion Control Requirements for Interactive
Real-Time Media" RFC 8836 DOI 10.17487/RFC8836
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8836>

, January 2021,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Jones, P., Dhesikan, S., Jennings, C., and D. Druta "Diﬀerentiated Services Code
Point (DSCP) Packet Markings for WebRTC QoS" RFC 8837 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8837

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8837>

, January 2021,

,
,

,

.

Holmberg, C., Shpount, R., Loreto, S., and G. Camarillo "Session Description
Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer Procedures for Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP) over Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Transport" RFC
,
8841 DOI 10.17487/RFC8841
rfc8841>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2021,

.

,

Holmberg, C. and R. Shpount "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer
Considerations for Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) and Transport
,
Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 8842 DOI 10.17487/RFC8842
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8842>

, January 2021,

<https://

,

.

,

7.2.  Informative References

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8835

WebRTC Transports

January 2021

[ANRW16]

[RETURN]

[RFC3484]

[RFC5014]

[RFC5128]

[RFC7657]

[RFC8155]

[RFC8699]

Barik, R., Welzl, M., and A. Elmokashﬁ "How to say that you're special: Can we
,
use bits in the IPv4 header?" ANRW '16: Proceedings of the 2016 Applied
Networking Research Workshop, pages 68-70 DOI 10.1145/2959424.2959442
July 2016,

<https://irtf.org/anrw/2016/anrw16-ﬁnal17.pdf>

,

,

,

.

,

Schwartz, B. and J. Uberti "Recursively Encapsulated TURN (RETURN) for
Connectivity and Privacy in WebRTC" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
,
,
ietf-rtcweb-return-02
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-
, 27 March 2017,
rtcweb-return-02>

.

,

Draves, R. "Default Address Selection for Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6)" RFC
3484 DOI 10.17487/RFC3484
,
rfc3484>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2003,

.

Nordmark, E., Chakrabarti, S., and J. Laganier "IPv6 Socket API for Source
Address Selection" RFC 5014 DOI 10.17487/RFC5014
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5014>

, September 2007,

.

,

,

,

<https://

Srisuresh, P., Ford, B., and D. Kegel "State of Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Communication
,
across Network Address Translators (NATs)" RFC 5128 DOI 10.17487/RFC5128
March 2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5128>

,
.

,

,

,
Black, D., Ed. and P. Jones "Diﬀerentiated Services (Diﬀserv) and Real-Time
,
Communication" RFC 7657 DOI 10.17487/RFC7657
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7657>

, November 2015,

<https://

,

.

Patil, P., Reddy, T., and D. Wing "Traversal Using Relays around NAT (TURN)
Server Auto Discovery" RFC 8155 DOI 10.17487/RFC8155
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8155>

, April 2017,

,
.

,

,

<https://

,
Islam, S., Welzl, M., and S. Gjessing "Coupled Congestion Control for RTP Media"
, January 2020,
RFC 8699 DOI 10.17487/RFC8699
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8699>

,
.

,

Acknowledgements

This document is based on earlier draft versions embedded in
of contributions from many RTCWEB Working Group members.

[RFC8825]

, which were the result

Special thanks for reviews of earlier draft versions of this document go to
Magnus Westerlund Markus Isomaki
also deserve special mention.

; the contributions from

Dan Wing

, and

,

Eduardo Gueiros

,
Andrew Hutton

Author's Address

Harald Alvestrand
Google
Email:

 harald@alvestrand.no

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 13

