Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8765
Standards Track
June 2020
2070-1721
T. Pusateri
Una’┐Įliated

S. Cheshire
Apple Inc.

RFC 8765
DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

Abstract

The Domain Name System (DNS) was designed to return matching records e’¼āciently for queries
for data that are relatively static. When those records change frequently, DNS is still e’¼ācient at
returning the updated results when polled, as long as the polling rate is not too high. But, there
exists no mechanism for a client to be asynchronously noti’¼üed when these changes occur. This
document de’¼ünes a mechanism for a client to be noti’¼üed of such changes to DNS records, called
DNS Push Noti’¼ücations.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8765

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identi’¼üed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in e’¼Ćect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpli’¼üed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpli’¼üed BSD License.

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Fatal Errors

2.  Motivation

3.  Overview

4.  State Considerations

5.  Transport

6.  Protocol Operation

6.1.  Discovery

6.2.  DNS Push Noti’¼ücation SUBSCRIBE

6.2.1.  SUBSCRIBE Request

6.2.2.  SUBSCRIBE Response

6.3.  DNS Push Noti’¼ücation Updates

6.3.1.  PUSH Message

6.4.  DNS Push Noti’¼ücation UNSUBSCRIBE

6.4.1.  UNSUBSCRIBE Message

6.5.  DNS Push Noti’¼ücation RECONFIRM

6.5.1.  RECONFIRM Message

6.6.  DNS Stateful Operations TLV Context Summary

6.7.  Client-Initiated Termination

6.8.  Client Fallback to Polling

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Security Services

7.2.  TLS Name Authentication

7.3.  TLS Early Data

7.4.  TLS Session Resumption

8.  IANA Considerations

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Domain Name System (DNS) records may be updated using DNS Update
mechanisms such as a Discovery Proxy
 can also generate changes to a DNS zone. This
document speci’¼ües a protocol for DNS clients to subscribe to receive asynchronous noti’¼ücations
of changes to RRsets of interest. It is immediately relevant in the case of DNS-based Service
Discovery
DNS record change noti’¼ücations. Familiarity with the DNS protocol and DNS packet formats is
assumed

 but is not limited to that use case; it provides a general DNS mechanism for

[RFC1034] [RFC1035] [RFC6895]

[RFC6763]

[RFC8766]

[RFC2136]

. Other

.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Fatal Errors

Certain invalid situations are described in this speci’¼ücation, such as a server sending a Push
Noti’¼ücation subscription request to a client, or a client sending a Push Noti’¼ücation response to a
server. These should never occur with a correctly implemented client and server, and if they do
occur, then they indicate a serious implementation error. In these extreme cases, there is no
reasonable expectation of a graceful recovery, and the recipient detecting the error should
respond by unilaterally aborting the session without regard for data loss. Such cases are
addressed by having an engineer investigate the cause of the failure and ’¼üxing the problem in
the software.

Where this speci’¼ücation says "forcibly abort", it means sending a TCP RST to terminate the TCP
connection and the TLS session running over that TCP connection. In the BSD Sockets API, this is
achieved by setting the SO_LINGER option to zero before closing the socket.

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

2.  Motivation

[OBS]

As the domain name system continues to adapt to new uses and changes in deployment, polling
has the potential to burden DNS servers at many levels throughout the network. Other network
protocols have successfully deployed a publish/subscribe model following the Observer design
pattern
and Atom
a high rate of query/response tra’¼āc, adding a publish/subscribe model for tracking changes to
DNS records can deliver more timely noti’¼ücations of changes with reduced CPU usage and lower
network tra’¼āc.

[XEP0060]
 are examples. While DNS servers are generally highly tuned and capable of

. Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP) Publish-Subscribe

[RFC4287]

The guiding design principle of DNS Push Noti’¼ücations is that clients that choose to use DNS Push
Noti’¼ücations, instead of repeated polling with DNS queries, will receive the same results as they
could via su’¼āciently rapid polling, except more e’¼āciently. This means that the rules for which
records match a given DNS Push Noti’¼ücation subscription are the same as the already
established rules used to determine which records match a given DNS query
example, name comparisons are done in a case-insensitive manner, and a record of type CNAME
in a zone matches any DNS TYPE in a query or subscription.

[RFC1034]

. For

[RFC6762]

 implementations always listen on a well-known link-local IP multicast

Multicast DNS
group address, and changes are sent to that multicast group address for all group members to
receive. Therefore, Multicast DNS already has asynchronous change noti’¼ücation capability.
When DNS-based Service Discovery
[RFC6763]
DNS (possibly facilitated via a Discovery Proxy
equivalent capability for Unicast DNS in order to allow clients to learn about DNS record changes
in a timely manner without polling.

 is used across a wide area network using Unicast
[RFC8766]

), it would be bene’¼ücial to have an

[RFC8764]

 is an existing deployed solution to
The DNS Long-Lived Queries (LLQ) mechanism
provide asynchronous change noti’¼ücations; it was used by Apple's Back to My Mac
[RFC6281]
service introduced in Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard in 2007. Back to My Mac was designed in an era
when the data center operations sta’¼Ć asserted that it was impossible for a server to handle large
numbers of TCP connections, even if those connections carried very little tra’¼āc and spent most
of their time idle. Consequently, LLQ was de’¼üned as a UDP-based protocol, e’¼Ćectively replicating
much of TCP's connection state management logic in user space and creating its own imitation of
existing TCP features like ’¼éow control, reliability, and the three-way handshake.

This document builds on experience gained with the LLQ protocol, with an improved design.
Instead of using UDP, this speci’¼ücation uses DNS Stateful Operations (DSO)
 running
over TLS over TCP, and therefore doesn't need to reinvent existing TCP functionality. Using TCP
also gives long-lived low-tra’¼āc connections better longevity through NAT gateways without
depending on the gateway to support NAT Port Mapping Protocol (NAT-PMP)
Control Protocol (PCP)

, or resorting to excessive keepalive tra’¼āc.

[RFC8490]

[RFC6886]

[RFC6887]

 or Port

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

3.  Overview

A DNS Push Noti’¼ücation client subscribes for Push Noti’¼ücations for a particular RRset by
connecting to the appropriate Push Noti’¼ücation server for that RRset and sending DSO message
(s) indicating the RRset(s) of interest. When the client loses interest in receiving further updates
to these records, it unsubscribes.

The DNS Push Noti’¼ücation server for a DNS zone is any server capable of generating the correct
change noti’¼ücations for a name. It may be a primary, secondary, or stealth name server
[RFC8499]
.

MAY

 reference the same target host and

The _dnsŌĆæpushŌĆætls._tcp.<zone> SRV record for a zone
port as that zone's _dnsŌĆæupdateŌĆætls._tcp.<zone> SRV record. When the same target host and
port is o’¼Ćered for both DNS Updates and DNS Push Noti’¼ücations, a client
 use a single DSO
session to that server for both DNS Updates and DNS Push Noti’¼ücation subscriptions. DNS
Updates and DNS Push Noti’¼ücations may be handled on di’¼Ćerent ports on the same target host,
in which case they are not considered to be the "same server" for the purposes of this
speci’¼ücation, and communications with these two ports are handled independently. Supporting
DNS Updates and DNS Push Noti’¼ücations on the same server is
Noti’¼ücation server is not required to support DNS Update.

. A DNS Push

OPTIONAL

MAY

MAY

 be sent over a DNS Push Noti’¼ücation (i.e., DSO) session. For any zone

Standard DNS Queries
for which the server is authoritative, it
falling within that zone (e.g., the _dnsŌĆæpushŌĆætls._tcp.<zone> SRV record) both for normal DNS
queries and for DNS Push Noti’¼ücation subscriptions. For names for which the server is acting as
a recursive resolver (e.g., when the server is the local recursive resolver) for any query for which
it supports DNS Push Noti’¼ücation subscriptions, it

 respond authoritatively for queries for names

 also support standard queries.

MUST

MUST

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations impose less load on the responding server than rapid polling would, but
Push Noti’¼ücations do still have a cost. Therefore, DNS Push Noti’¼ücation clients
recklessly create an excessive number of Push Noti’¼ücation subscriptions. Speci’¼ücally:

MUST NOT

(a)

(b)

SHOULD

A subscription should only be active when there is a valid reason to need live data (for
example, an on-screen display is currently showing the results to the user), and the
subscription
when the user dismisses that display). In the case of a device like a smartphone that, after
some period of inactivity, goes to sleep or otherwise darkens its screen, it should cancel its
subscriptions when darkening the screen (since the user cannot see any changes on the
display anyway) and reinstate its subscriptions when reawakening from display sleep.

 be canceled as soon as the need for that data ends (for example,

SHOULD NOT

A DNS Push Noti’¼ücation client
subscription active 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, just to keep a list in memory up to date
so that if the user does choose to bring up an on-screen display of that data, it can be
displayed really fast. DNS Push Noti’¼ücations are designed to be fast enough that there is no
need to pre-load a "warm" list in memory just in case it might be needed later.

 routinely keep a DNS Push Noti’¼ücation

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

Generally, as described in the DNS Stateful Operations speci’¼ücation
keep a DSO session to a server open inde’¼ünitely if it has no subscriptions (or other operations)
active on that session. A client should begin closing a DSO session immediately after it becomes
idle, and then, if needed in the future, open a new session when required. Alternatively, a client
may speculatively keep an idle DSO session open for some time, subject to the constraint that it
must not keep a session open that has been idle for more than the session's idle timeout (15
seconds by default)

, a client must not

[RFC8490]

[RFC8490]

.

Note that a DSO session that has an active DNS Push Noti’¼ücation subscription is not considered
idle, even if there is no tra’¼āc ’¼éowing for an extended period of time. In this case, the DSO
inactivity timeout does not apply, because the session is not inactive, but the keepalive interval
does still apply, to ensure the generation of su’¼ācient messages to maintain state in middleboxes
(such at NAT gateways or ’¼ürewalls) and for the client and server to periodically verify that they
still have connectivity to each other. This is described in
.
[RFC8490]

Section 6.2 of the DSO speci’¼ücation

4.  State Considerations

Each DNS Push Noti’¼ücation server is capable of handling some ’¼ünite number of Push
Noti’¼ücation subscriptions. This number will vary from server to server and is based on physical
machine characteristics, network capacity, and operating system resource allocation. After a
client establishes a session to a DNS server, each subscription is individually accepted or
rejected. Servers may employ various techniques to limit subscriptions to a manageable level.
Correspondingly, the client is free to establish simultaneous sessions to alternate DNS servers
that support DNS Push Noti’¼ücations for the zone and distribute subscriptions at the client's
discretion. In this way, both clients and servers can react to resource constraints.

5.  Transport

Other DNS operations like DNS Update
Protocol (UDP)
[RFC0768]
transport protocol, provided they follow the historical precedent that DNS queries must ’¼ürst be
sent using DNS over UDP and only switch to DNS over TCP if needed
to prefer UDP has subsequently been relaxed

 or DNS over Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)

 use either DNS over User Datagram

[RFC2136] MAY

.
[RFC7766]

[RFC1123]

[RFC0793]

 as the

. This requirement

In keeping with the more recent precedent, DNS Push Noti’¼ücation is de’¼üned only for TCP. DNS
Push Noti’¼ücation clients
.
[RFC7858]

 use DNS Stateful Operations

 running over TLS over TCP

[RFC8490]

MUST

Connection setup over TCP ensures return reachability and alleviates concerns of state overload
at the server, a potential problem with connectionless protocols, which can be more vulnerable
to being exploited by attackers using spoofed source addresses. All subscribers are guaranteed to
be reachable by the server by virtue of the TCP three-way handshake. Flooding attacks are
possible with any protocol, and a bene’¼üt of TCP is that there are already established industry
best practices to guard against SYN ’¼éooding and similar attacks

.
[SYN] [RFC4953]

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

Use of TCP also allows DNS Push Noti’¼ücations to take advantage of current and future
developments in TCP such as Multipath TCP (MPTCP)
, TCP Fast Open (TFO)
[TCPRACK]
the TCP RACK fast loss detection algorithm

[RFC8684]
, and so on.

[RFC7413]
,

[RFC8446]

Transport Layer Security (TLS)
layer protocols running over TCP. TLS is designed to prevent eavesdropping, tampering, and
message forgery. TLS is
 for every connection between a client subscriber and server in
this protocol speci’¼ücation. Additional security measures such as client authentication during TLS
negotiation may also be employed to increase the trust relationship between client and server.

 is well understood and is used by many application-

REQUIRED

6.  Protocol Operation

The DNS Push Noti’¼ücation protocol is a session-oriented protocol and makes use of DNS Stateful
Operations (DSO)

.
[RFC8490]

For details of the DSO message format, refer to the DNS Stateful Operations speci’¼ücation
[RFC8490]

. Those details are not repeated here.

DNS Push Noti’¼ücation clients and servers
Queries, DNS Updates, and DNS Push Noti’¼ücations (using DSO) on the same TCP port.

 support DSO. A single server can support DNS

MUST

A DNS Push Noti’¼ücation exchange begins with the client discovering the appropriate server,
using the procedure described in Section 6.1, and then making a TLS/TCP connection to it.

After making the TLS/TCP connection to the server, a typical DNS Push Noti’¼ücation client will
then immediately issue a DSO Keepalive operation to establish the DSO session and request a
session timeout and/or keepalive interval longer than the 15-second default values, but this is not
 issue other requests on the session ’¼ürst, and only
required. A DNS Push Noti’¼ücation client
issue a DSO Keepalive operation later if it determines that to be necessary. Sending either a DSO
Keepalive operation or a Push Noti’¼ücation subscription request over the TLS/TCP connection to
the server signals the client's support of DSO and serves to establish a DSO session.

MAY

In accordance with the current set of active subscriptions, the server sends relevant
asynchronous Push Noti’¼ücations to the client. Note that a client
(and silently ignore) Push Noti’¼ücations for subscriptions it has previously removed, since there is
no way to prevent the situation where a Push Noti’¼ücation is in ’¼éight from server to client while
the client's UNSUBSCRIBE message canceling that subscription is simultaneously in ’¼éight from
client to server.

 be prepared to receive

MUST

6.1.  Discovery

The ’¼ürst step in establishing a DNS Push Noti’¼ücation subscription is to discover an appropriate
DNS server that supports DNS Push Noti’¼ücations for the desired zone.

The client begins by opening a DSO session to its normal con’¼ügured DNS recursive resolver and
requesting a Push Noti’¼ücation subscription. This connection is made to TCP port 853, the default
. If the request for a Push Noti’¼ücation subscription is successful,
port for DNS over TLS

[RFC7858]

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

and the recursive resolver doesn't already have an active subscription for that name, type, and
class, then the recursive resolver will make a corresponding Push Noti’¼ücation subscription on
the client's behalf. Results received are relayed to the client. This is closely analogous to how a
client sends a normal DNS query to its con’¼ügured DNS recursive resolver, which, if it doesn't
already have appropriate answer(s) in its cache, issues an upstream query to satisfy the request.

In many contexts, the recursive resolver will be able to handle Push Noti’¼ücations for all names
that the client may need to follow. Use of VPN tunnels and Private DNS
some additional complexity in the client software here; the techniques to handle VPN tunnels
and Private DNS for DNS Push Noti’¼ücations are the same as those already used to handle this for
normal DNS queries.

 can create

[RFC8499]

If the recursive resolver does not support DNS over TLS, or supports DNS over TLS but is not
listening on TCP port 853, or supports DNS over TLS on TCP port 853 but does not support DSO on
that port, then the DSO session establishment will fail

.
[RFC8490]

If the recursive resolver does support DSO on TCP port 853 but does not support Push
Noti’¼ücation subscriptions, then when the client attempts to create a subscription, the server will
return the DSO error code DSOTYPENI (11).

In some cases, the recursive resolver may support DSO and Push Noti’¼ücation subscriptions but
may not be able to subscribe for Push Noti’¼ücations for a particular name. In this case, the
recursive resolver should return SERVFAIL to the client. This includes being unable to establish a
connection to the zone's DNS Push Noti’¼ücation server or establishing a connection but receiving
a non-success response code. In some cases, where the client has a pre-established trust
relationship with the owner of the zone (that is not handled via the usual mechanisms for VPN
software), the client may handle these failures by contacting the zone's DNS Push Noti’¼ücation
server directly.

In any of the cases described above where the client fails to establish a DNS Push Noti’¼ücation
subscription via its con’¼ügured recursive resolver, the client should proceed to discover the
appropriate server for direct communication. The client
the server is listening for connections, which need not be, and often is not, TCP port 53
(traditionally used for conventional DNS) or TCP port 853 (traditionally used for DNS over TLS).

 also determine on which TCP port

MUST

The discovery algorithm described here is an iterative algorithm, which starts with the full name
of the record to which the client wishes to subscribe. Successive SOA queries are then issued,
trimming one label each time, until the closest enclosing authoritative server is discovered.
There is also an optimization to enable the client to take a "short cut" directly to the SOA record
of the closest enclosing authoritative server in many cases.

1.

[RFC1035]

The client begins the discovery by sending a DNS query to its local resolver, with record type
 for the record name to which it wishes to subscribe. As an example, suppose
SOA
the client wishes to subscribe to PTR records with the name
_ipp._tcp.headoffice.example.com (to discover Internet Printing Protocol (IPP) printers
[RFC8010] [RFC8011]
begins by sending an SOA query for _ipp._tcp.headoffice.example.com to the local

 being advertised in the head o’¼āce of Example Company). The client

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

recursive resolver. The goal is to determine the server that is authoritative for the name
_ipp._tcp.headoffice.example.com. The closest enclosing DNS zone containing the name
_ipp._tcp.headoffice.example.com could be example.com, or headoffice.example.com,
or _tcp.headoffice.example.com, or even _ipp._tcp.headoffice.example.com. The
client does not know in advance where the closest enclosing zone cut occurs, which is why it
uses the iterative procedure described here to discover this information.

2.

If the requested SOA record exists, it will be returned in the Answer Section with a NOERROR
response code, and the client has succeeded in discovering the information it needs.

(This language is not placing any new requirements on DNS recursive resolvers. This text
merely describes the existing operation of the DNS protocol

[RFC1034] [RFC1035]

.)

3.

If the requested SOA record does not exist, the client will get back a NOERROR/NODATA
response or an NXDOMAIN/Name Error response. In either case, the local resolver would
normally include the SOA record for the closest enclosing zone of the requested name in the
Authority Section. If the SOA record is received in the Authority Section, then the client has
succeeded in discovering the information it needs.

(This language is not placing any new requirements on DNS recursive resolvers. This text
merely describes the existing operation of the DNS protocol regarding negative responses
[RFC2308]

.)

4.

If the client receives a response containing no SOA record, then it proceeds with the iterative
approach. The client strips the leading label from the current query name, and if the
resulting name has at least two labels in it, then the client sends an SOA query for that new
name and processing continues at step 2 above, repeating the iterative search until either an
SOA is received or the query name consists of a single label, i.e., a Top-Level Domain (TLD).
In the case of a single-label name (TLD), this is a network con’¼üguration error, which should
not happen, and the client gives up. The client may retry the operation at a later time of the
client's choosing, such as after a change in network attachment.

5.

6.

7.

Once the SOA is known (by virtue of being seen either in the Answer Section or in the
Authority Section), the client sends a DNS query with type SRV
name _dnsŌĆæpushŌĆætls._tcp.<zone>, where <zone> is the owner name of the discovered SOA
record.

 for the record

[RFC2782]

If the zone in question is set up to o’¼Ćer DNS Push Noti’¼ücations, then this SRV record
exist. (If this SRV record does not exist, then the zone is not correctly con’¼ügured for DNS
Push Noti’¼ücations as speci’¼üed in this document.) The SRV target contains the name of the
server providing DNS Push Noti’¼ücations for the zone. The port number on which to contact
the server is in the SRV record port ’¼üeld. The address(es) of the target host
 be included
MAY
 be authenticated before use
in the Additional Section, however, the address records
as described in Section 7.2 and in the speci’¼ücation for using DNS-Based Authentication of
Named Entities (DANE) TLSA Records with SRV Records

, if applicable.

[RFC7673]

SHOULD

MUST

More than one SRV record may be returned. In this case, the priority and weight values in
the returned SRV records are used to determine the order in which to contact the servers for
subscription requests. As described in the SRV speci’¼ücation
lowest priority is ’¼ürst contacted. If more than one server has the same priority, the

, the server with the

[RFC2782]

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

weight indicates the weighted probability that the client should contact that server. Higher
weights have higher probabilities of being selected. If a server is not willing to accept a
subscription request, or is not reachable within a reasonable time, as determined by the
client, then a subsequent server is to be contacted.

Each time a client makes a new DNS Push Noti’¼ücation subscription, it
discovery process in order to determine the preferred DNS server for that subscription at that
time. If a client already has a DSO session with that DNS server, the client
existing DSO session for the new subscription; otherwise, a new DSO session is established. The
client
process and store them in its local cache with this lifetime (as it will generally do anyway for all
DNS queries it performs). This means that, as long as the DNS TTL values on the authoritative
records are set to reasonable values, repeated application of the discovery process can be
completed practically instantaneously by the client, using only locally stored cached data.

 respect the DNS TTL values on records it receives while performing the discovery

 repeat the

 reuse that

SHOULD

SHOULD

MUST

6.2.  DNS Push Noti’¼ücation SUBSCRIBE

After connecting, and requesting a longer idle timeout and/or keepalive interval if necessary, a
DNS Push Noti’¼ücation client then indicates its desire to receive DNS Push Noti’¼ücations for a
given domain name by sending a SUBSCRIBE request to the server. A SUBSCRIBE request is
encoded in a DSO message
Noti’¼ücation SUBSCRIBE Requests (DSO Type Code 0x0040).

. This speci’¼ücation de’¼ünes a DSO Primary TLV for DNS Push

[RFC8490]

DSO messages with the SUBSCRIBE TLV as the Primary TLV are permitted in TLS early data,
provided that the precautions described in Section 7.3 are followed.

The entity that initiates a SUBSCRIBE request is by de’¼ünition the client. A server
a SUBSCRIBE request over an existing session from a client. If a server does send a SUBSCRIBE
request over a DSO session initiated by a client, this is a fatal error and the client
 forcibly
abort the connection immediately.

MUST NOT

MUST

 send

Each SUBSCRIBE request generates exactly one SUBSCRIBE response from the server. The entity
that initiates a SUBSCRIBE response is by de’¼ünition the server. A client
SUBSCRIBE response. If a client does send a SUBSCRIBE response, this is a fatal error and the
server

 forcibly abort the connection immediately.

MUST NOT

 send a

MUST

6.2.1.  SUBSCRIBE Request

A SUBSCRIBE request begins with the standard DSO 12-byte header
SUBSCRIBE Primary TLV. A SUBSCRIBE request is illustrated in Figure 1.

[RFC8490]

, followed by the

MUST

 be set to a unique value that the client is not using for any other

The MESSAGE ID ’¼üeld
active operation on this DSO session. For the purposes here, a MESSAGE ID is in use on this
session if either the client has used it in a request for which it has not yet received a response, or
if the client has used it for a subscription that it has not yet canceled using UNSUBSCRIBE. In the
SUBSCRIBE response, the server

 echo back the MESSAGE ID value unchanged.

MUST

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

The other header ’¼üelds
OPCODE ’¼üeld contains the OPCODE value for DNS Stateful Operations (6). The four count ’¼üelds
must be zero, and the corresponding four sections must be empty (i.e., absent).

DSO speci’¼ücation [RFC8490]

 be set as described in the

. The DNS

MUST

The DSO-TYPE is SUBSCRIBE (0x0040).

The DSO-LENGTH is the length of the DSO-DATA that follows, which speci’¼ües the name, type, and
class of the record(s) being sought.

                                   1  1  1  1  1  1
     0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  1  2  3  4  5
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  \
   |                  MESSAGE ID                   |   \
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |QR| OPCODE(6) |         Z          |   RCODE   |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             QDCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+     > HEADER
   |             ANCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             NSCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             ARCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |   /
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  /
   |         DSO-TYPE = SUBSCRIBE (0x0040)         |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
   |   DSO-LENGTH (number of octets in DSO-DATA)   |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  \
   \                     NAME                      \   \
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |                     TYPE                      |     > DSO-DATA
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |                     CLASS                     |   /
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  /

Figure 1: SUBSCRIBE Request

The DSO-DATA for a SUBSCRIBE request
SUBSCRIBE requests are sent over TCP, multiple SUBSCRIBE DSO request messages can be
concatenated in a single TCP stream and packed e’¼āciently into TCP segments.

 contain exactly one NAME, TYPE, and CLASS. Since

MUST

If accepted, the subscription will stay in e’¼Ćect until the client cancels the subscription using
UNSUBSCRIBE or until the DSO session between the client and the server is closed.

MUST

SUBSCRIBE requests on a given session
 send a SUBSCRIBE
message that duplicates the name, type and class of an existing active subscription on that DSO
session. For the purpose of this matching, the established DNS case insensitivity for US-ASCII
letters
receives such a duplicate SUBSCRIBE message, this is a fatal error and the server
abort the connection immediately.

 applies (e.g., "example.com" and "Example.com" are the same). If a server

 be unique. A client

[RFC0020]

MUST NOT

 forcibly

MUST

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

DNS wildcarding is not supported. That is, an asterisk character ("*") in a SUBSCRIBE message
matches only a literal asterisk character ("*") in a name and nothing else. Similarly, a CNAME in a
SUBSCRIBE message matches only a CNAME record with that name in the zone and no other
records with that name.

A client may SUBSCRIBE to records that are unknown to the server at the time of the request
(providing that the name falls within one of the zone(s) the server is responsible for), and this is
not an error. The server
 accept these
requests and send Push Noti’¼ücations if and when matching records are found in the future.

 return NXDOMAIN in this case. The server

MUST NOT

MUST

If neither TYPE nor CLASS are ANY (255), then this is a speci’¼üc subscription to changes for the
given name, type, and class. If one or both of TYPE or CLASS are ANY (255), then this subscription
matches all types and/or all classes as appropriate.

NOTE: A little-known quirk of DNS is that in DNS QUERY requests, QTYPE and QCLASS 255 mean
"ANY", not "ALL". They indicate that the server should respond with ANY matching records of its
choosing, not necessarily ALL matching records. This can lead to some surprising and
unexpected results, where a query returns some valid answers, but not all of them, and makes
QTYPE = 255 (ANY) queries less useful than people sometimes imagine.

When used in conjunction with SUBSCRIBE, TYPE 255 and CLASS 255 should be interpreted to
mean "ALL", not "ANY". After accepting a subscription where one or both of TYPE or CLASS are
255, the server
MUST
subscription, not just some of them.

 send Push Noti’¼ücation Updates for ALL record changes that match the

6.2.2.  SUBSCRIBE Response

[RFC8490]
A SUBSCRIBE response begins with the standard DSO 12-byte header
 be followed by one or more optional
header is set indicating it is a response. The header
Additional TLVs such as a Retry Delay Additional TLV. A SUBSCRIBE response is illustrated in
Figure 2.

MAY

. The QR bit in the

The MESSAGE ID ’¼üeld
request. This is how the client knows which request is being responded to.

 echo the value given in the MESSAGE ID ’¼üeld of the SUBSCRIBE

MUST

The other header ’¼üelds
OPCODE ’¼üeld contains the OPCODE value for DNS Stateful Operations (6). The four count ’¼üelds
must be zero, and the corresponding four sections must be empty (i.e., absent).

DSO speci’¼ücation [RFC8490]

 be set as described in the

. The DNS

MUST

 include a SUBSCRIBE TLV. If a client receives a
A SUBSCRIBE response message
SUBSCRIBE response message containing a SUBSCRIBE TLV, then the response message is
processed but the SUBSCRIBE TLV

 be silently ignored.

MUST NOT

MUST

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

                                   1  1  1  1  1  1
     0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  1  2  3  4  5
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  \
   |                  MESSAGE ID                   |   \
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |QR| OPCODE(6) |         Z          |   RCODE   |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             QDCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+     > HEADER
   |             ANCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             NSCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             ARCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |   /
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  /

Figure 2: SUBSCRIBE Response

In the SUBSCRIBE response, the RCODE indicates whether or not the subscription was accepted.
Supported RCODEs are as follows:

Mnemonic

Value Description

NOERROR

FORMERR

SERVFAIL

NOTIMP

REFUSED

NOTAUTH

0

1

2

4

5

9

SUBSCRIBE successful.

Server failed to process request due to a malformed request.

Server failed to process request due to a problem with the server.

Server does not implement DSO.

Server refuses to process request for policy or security reasons.

Server is not authoritative for the requested name.

DSOTYPENI

11

SUBSCRIBE operation not supported.

Table 1: SUBSCRIBE Response Codes

SHOULD

This document speci’¼ües only these RCODE values for SUBSCRIBE Responses. Servers sending
SUBSCRIBE Responses
RCODE in response to a SUBSCRIBE Request. However, future circumstances may create
situations where other RCODE values are appropriate in SUBSCRIBE Responses, so clients
be prepared to accept and handle SUBSCRIBE Responses with any other nonzero RCODE error
values.

 use one of these values. Note that NXDOMAIN is not a valid

MUST

If the server sends a nonzero RCODE in the SUBSCRIBE response, that means:

a.
b.

the client is (at least partially) miscon’¼ügured, or
the server resources are exhausted, or

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

c.

there is some other unknown failure on the server.

In any case, the client shouldn't retry the subscription to this server right away. If multiple SRV
records were returned as described in Section 6.1, Paragraph 9, Item 7, a subsequent server
be tried immediately.

MAY

If the client has other successful subscriptions to this server, these subscriptions remain even
though additional subscriptions may be refused. Neither the client nor the server is required to
close the connection, although either end may choose to do so.

 append a Retry Delay Additional TLV
 to the response specifying a delay before the client attempts this operation again.

If the server sends a nonzero RCODE, then it
[RFC8490]
Recommended values for the delay for di’¼Ćerent RCODE values are given below. These
recommended values apply both to the default values a server should place in the Retry Delay
Additional TLV and the default values a client should assume if the server provides no Retry
Delay Additional TLV.

SHOULD

For RCODE = 1 (FORMERR), the delay may be any value selected by the implementer. A value
of ’¼üve minutes is

 to reduce the risk of high load from defective clients.

RECOMMENDED

For RCODE = 2 (SERVFAIL), the delay should be chosen according to the level of server
overload and the anticipated duration of that overload. By default, a value of one minute is
RECOMMENDED
accordance with the speci’¼üc problem encountered.

. If a more serious server failure occurs, the delay may be longer in

[RFC8490]

For RCODE = 4 (NOTIMP), which occurs on a server that doesn't implement DNS Stateful
Operations
minutes, so the retry delay
doesn't implement DSO is unlikely to place a Retry Delay Additional TLV in its response, so
this recommended value in particular applies to what a client should assume by default.

, it is unlikely that the server will begin supporting DSO in the next few

 be one hour. Note that in such a case, a server that

SHOULD

For RCODE = 5 (REFUSED), which occurs on a server that implements DNS Push Noti’¼ücations
but is currently con’¼ügured to disallow DNS Push Noti’¼ücations, the retry delay may be any
value selected by the implementer and/or con’¼ügured by the operator.

If the server being queried is listed in a _dnsŌĆæpushŌĆætls._tcp.<zone> SRV record for the
zone, then this is a miscon’¼üguration, since this server is being advertised as supporting DNS
Push Noti’¼ücations for this zone, but the server itself is not currently con’¼ügured to perform
that task. Since it is possible that the miscon’¼üguration may be repaired at any time, the retry
delay should not be set too high. By default, a value of 5 minutes is

RECOMMENDED

.

For RCODE = 9 (NOTAUTH), which occurs on a server that implements DNS Push
Noti’¼ücations but is not con’¼ügured to be authoritative for the requested name, the retry delay
may be any value selected by the implementer and/or con’¼ügured by the operator.

If the server being queried is listed in a _dnsŌĆæpushŌĆætls._tcp.<zone> SRV record for the
zone, then this is a miscon’¼üguration, since this server is being advertised as supporting DNS
Push Noti’¼ücations for this zone, but the server itself is not currently con’¼ügured to perform
that task. Since it is possible that the miscon’¼üguration may be repaired at any time, the retry
delay should not be set too high. By default, a value of 5 minutes is

RECOMMENDED

.

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

For RCODE = 11 (DSOTYPENI), which occurs on a server that implements DSO but doesn't
implement DNS Push Noti’¼ücations, it is unlikely that the server will begin supporting DNS
Push Noti’¼ücations in the next few minutes, so the retry delay

 be one hour.

SHOULD

For other RCODE values, the retry delay should be set by the server as appropriate for that
error condition. By default, a value of 5 minutes is

RECOMMENDED

.

For RCODE = 9 (NOTAUTH), the time delay applies to requests for other names falling within the
same zone. Requests for names falling within other zones are not subject to the delay. For all
other RCODEs, the time delay applies to all subsequent requests to this server.

After sending an error response, the server
 follow
it with a DSO Retry Delay operation (using the Retry Delay Primary TLV) instructing the client to
close the session as described in the
 correctly handle
both cases. Note that the DSO Retry Delay operation (using the Retry Delay Primary TLV) is
di’¼Ćerent to the Retry Delay Additional TLV mentioned above.

 allow the session to remain open, or

DSO speci’¼ücation [RFC8490]

. Clients

MUST

MAY

MAY

6.3.  DNS Push Noti’¼ücation Updates

Once a subscription has been successfully established, the server generates PUSH messages to
send to the client as appropriate. In the case that the answer set was already non-empty at the
moment the subscription was established, an initial PUSH message will be sent immediately
following the SUBSCRIBE Response. Subsequent changes to the answer set are then
communicated to the client in subsequent PUSH messages.

MUST NOT

A client
message is sent with the QR bit set indicating that it is a response, this is a fatal error and the
receiver

 send a PUSH message. If a client does send a PUSH message, or a PUSH

 forcibly abort the connection immediately.

MUST

6.3.1.  PUSH Message

A PUSH unidirectional message begins with the standard DSO 12-byte header
followed by the PUSH Primary TLV. A PUSH message is illustrated in Figure 3.

,
[RFC8490]

In accordance with the de’¼ünition of DSO unidirectional messages, the MESSAGE ID ’¼üeld
zero. There is no client response to a PUSH message.

MUST

 be

The other header ’¼üelds
OPCODE ’¼üeld contains the OPCODE value for DNS Stateful Operations (6). The four count ’¼üelds
must be zero, and the corresponding four sections must be empty (i.e., absent).

 be set as described in the DSO speci’¼ücation

[RFC8490]

. The DNS

MUST

The DSO-TYPE is PUSH (0x0041).

The DSO-LENGTH is the length of the DSO-DATA that follows, which speci’¼ües the changes being
communicated.

The DSO-DATA contains one or more change noti’¼ücations. A PUSH Message
 contain at least
one change noti’¼ücation. If a PUSH Message is received that contains no change noti’¼ücations, this
is a fatal error and the client

 forcibly abort the connection immediately.

MUST

MUST

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

The change noti’¼ücation records are formatted similarly to how DNS Resource Records are
conventionally expressed in DNS messages, as illustrated in Figure 3, and are interpreted as
described below.

The TTL ’¼üeld holds an unsigned 32-bit integer
2,147,483,647 seconds (0 to 231 - 1, or 0x7FFFFFFF), then a new DNS Resource Record with the
given name, type, class, and RDATA is added. Type and class
 be 255 (ANY). If either
 forcibly abort the connection
type or class are 255 (ANY), this is a fatal error and the client
immediately. A TTL of 0 means that this record should be retained for as long as the subscription
is active and should be discarded immediately the moment the subscription is canceled.

. If the TTL is in the range 0 to

[RFC2181]

MUST NOT

MUST

If the TTL has the value 0xFFFFFFFF, then the DNS Resource Record with the given name, type,
class, and RDATA is removed. Type and class
 be 255 (ANY). If either type or class are
255 (ANY), this is a fatal error and the client

 forcibly abort the connection immediately.

MUST NOT

MUST

If the TTL has the value 0xFFFFFFFE, then this is a 'collective' remove noti’¼ücation. For collective
remove noti’¼ücations, RDLEN
 be empty. If a
change noti’¼ücation is received where TTL = 0xFFFFFFFE and RDLEN is not zero, this is a fatal
 forcibly abort the connection immediately.
error and the client

 be zero, and consequently, the RDATA

MUST

MUST

MUST

There are three types of collective remove noti’¼ücation. For collective remove noti’¼ücations:

ŌĆó

If CLASS is not 255 (ANY) and TYPE is not 255 (ANY), then for the given name, this removes
all records of the speci’¼üed type in the speci’¼üed class.

ŌĆó

If CLASS is not 255 (ANY) and TYPE is 255 (ANY), then for the given name, this removes all
records of all types in the speci’¼üed class.

ŌĆó

If CLASS is 255 (ANY), then for the given name, this removes all records of all types in all
classes. In this case, TYPE
on reception.

 be set to zero on transmission and

 be silently ignored

MUST

MUST

Summary of change noti’¼ücation types:

ŌĆó

Remove all RRsets from a name in all classes:
TTL = 0xFFFFFFFE, RDLEN = 0, CLASS = 255 (ANY).

ŌĆó

Remove all RRsets from a name in given class:
TTL = 0xFFFFFFFE, RDLEN = 0, CLASS gives class, TYPE = 255 (ANY).

ŌĆó

Remove speci’¼üed RRset from a name in given class:
TTL = 0xFFFFFFFE, RDLEN = 0,
CLASS and TYPE specify the RRset being removed.

ŌĆó

Remove an individual RR from a name:
TTL = 0xFFFFFFFF,
CLASS, TYPE, RDLEN, and RDATA specify the RR being removed.

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

ŌĆó

Add individual RR to a name:
TTL >= 0 and TTL <= 0x7FFFFFFF,
CLASS, TYPE, RDLEN, RDATA, and TTL specify the RR being added.

Note that it is valid for the RDATA of an added or removed DNS Resource Record to be empty
(zero length). For example, an Address Pre’¼üx List Resource Record
RDATA. Therefore, a change noti’¼ücation with RDLEN = 0 does not automatically indicate a
remove noti’¼ücation. If RDLEN = 0 and TTL is in the range 0 to 0x7FFFFFFF, this change
noti’¼ücation signals the addition of a record with the given name, type, class, and empty RDATA. If
RDLEN = 0 and TTL = 0xFFFFFFFF, this change noti’¼ücation signals the removal speci’¼ücally of that
single record with the given name, type, class, and empty RDATA.

 may have empty

[RFC3123]

If the TTL is any value other than 0xFFFFFFFF, 0xFFFFFFFE, or a value in the range 0 to
0x7FFFFFFF, then the receiver
The connection is not terminated and other valid change noti’¼ücation records within this PUSH
message are processed as usual.

 silently ignore this particular change noti’¼ücation record.

SHOULD

In the case where a single change a’¼Ćects more than one active subscription, only one PUSH
message is sent. For example, a PUSH message adding a given record may match both a
SUBSCRIBE request with the same TYPE and a di’¼Ćerent SUBSCRIBE request with TYPE = 255
(ANY). It is not the case that two PUSH messages are sent because the new record matches two
active subscriptions.

SHOULD

 encode change noti’¼ücations in the most e’¼ācient manner possible. For

The server
example, when three AAAA records are removed from a given name, and no other AAAA records
exist for that name, the server
class" PUSH message, not three separate "Remove an individual RR from a name" PUSH
messages. Similarly, when both an SRV and a TXT record are removed from a given name, and no
other records of any kind exist for that name in that class, the server
 send a "Remove all
RRsets from a name in given class" PUSH message, not two separate "Remove speci’¼üed RRset
from a name in given class" PUSH messages.

 send a "Remove speci’¼üed RRset from a name in given

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

For e’¼āciency, when generating a PUSH message, rather than sending each change noti’¼ücation as
a separate DSO message, a server
immediately available to send to that client, even if those change noti’¼ücations apply to di’¼Ćerent
subscriptions from that client. Conceptually, a PUSH message is a session-level mechanism, not a
subscription-level mechanism. Once it has exhausted the list of change noti’¼ücations immediately
available to send to that client, a server
 then send the PUSH message immediately rather
than waiting speculatively to see if additional change noti’¼ücations become available.

 include as many change noti’¼ücations as it has

SHOULD

For e’¼āciency, when generating a PUSH message a server
compression, with o’¼Ćsets relative to the beginning of the DNS message
change noti’¼ücations in a single PUSH message have the same owner name, this name
compression can yield signi’¼ücant savings. Name compression should be performed as speci’¼üed
in
always be compressed, and names appearing within RDATA should be compressed for only the
RR types listed below:

Section 18.14 of the Multicast DNS speci’¼ücation [RFC6762]

; namely, owner names should

 use standard DNS name

[RFC1035]

SHOULD

. When multiple

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

NS, CNAME, PTR, DNAME, SOA, MX, AFSDB, RT, KX, RP, PX, SRV, NSEC

 generate PUSH messages larger than this. Where the immediately available change

Servers may generate PUSH messages up to a maximum DNS message length of 16,382 bytes,
counting from the start of the DSO 12-byte header. Including the two-byte length pre’¼üx that is
used to frame DNS over a byte stream like TLS, this makes a total of 16,384 bytes. Servers
NOT
noti’¼ücations are su’¼ācient to exceed a DNS message length of 16,382 bytes, the change
noti’¼ücations
name compression becomes less e’¼Ćective for messages larger than 16,384 bytes, so little
e’¼āciency bene’¼üt is gained by sending messages larger than this.

 be communicated in separate PUSH messages of up to 16,382 bytes each. DNS

MUST

MUST

If a client receives a PUSH message with a DNS message length larger than 16,382 bytes, this is a
fatal error and the client

 forcibly abort the connection immediately.

MUST

                                   1  1  1  1  1  1
     0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  1  2  3  4  5
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  \
   |           MESSAGE ID (MUST BE ZERO)           |   \
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |QR| OPCODE(6) |         Z          |   RCODE   |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             QDCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+     > HEADER
   |             ANCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             NSCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             ARCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |   /
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  /
   |            DSO-TYPE = PUSH (0x0041)           |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
   |   DSO-LENGTH (number of octets in DSO-DATA)   |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  \
   \                     NAME                      \   \
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |                     TYPE                      |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |                     CLASS                     |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |                      TTL                      |    |
   |     (32-bit unsigned big-endian integer)      |     > DSO-DATA
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |  RDLEN (16-bit unsigned big-endian integer)   |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   \           RDATA (sized as necessary)          \    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   :     NAME, TYPE, CLASS, TTL, RDLEN, RDATA      :    |
   :             Repeated As Necessary             :   /
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  /

Figure 3: PUSH Message

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

MUST

 validate that

 match the name given in the SUBSCRIBE

When processing the records received in a PUSH Message, the receiving client
the records being added or removed correspond with at least one currently active subscription
on that session. Speci’¼ücally, the record name
MUST
request, subject to the usual established DNS case-insensitivity for US-ASCII letters. For
individual additions and removals, if the TYPE in the SUBSCRIBE request was not ANY (255), then
the TYPE of the record must either be CNAME or match the TYPE given in the SUBSCRIBE
request, and if the CLASS in the SUBSCRIBE request was not ANY (255), then the CLASS of the
record must match the CLASS given in the SUBSCRIBE request. For collective removals, at least
one of the records being removed must match an active subscription. If a matching active
subscription on that session is not found, then that particular addition/removal record is silently
ignored. The processing of other additions and removal records in this message is not a’¼Ćected.
The DSO session is not closed. This is to allow for the unavoidable race condition where a client
sends an outbound UNSUBSCRIBE while inbound PUSH messages for that subscription from the
server are still in ’¼éight.

The TTL of an added record is stored by the client. While the subscription is active the TTL is not
decremented, because a change to the TTL would produce a new update. For as long as a
relevant subscription remains active, the client
 assume that when a record goes away,
the server will notify it of that fact. Consequently, a client does not have to poll to verify that the
record is still there. Once a subscription is canceled (individually, or as a result of the DSO session
being closed), record aging for records covered by the subscription resumes and records are
removed from the local cache when their TTL reaches zero.

SHOULD

6.4.  DNS Push Noti’¼ücation UNSUBSCRIBE

To cancel an individual subscription without closing the entire DSO session, the client sends an
UNSUBSCRIBE message over the established DSO session to the server.

The entity that initiates an UNSUBSCRIBE message is by de’¼ünition the client. A server
send an UNSUBSCRIBE message over an existing session from a client. If a server does send an
UNSUBSCRIBE message over a DSO session initiated by a client, or an UNSUBSCRIBE message is
sent with the QR bit set indicating that it is a response, this is a fatal error and the receiver
forcibly abort the connection immediately.

MUST NOT

MUST

6.4.1.  UNSUBSCRIBE Message

An UNSUBSCRIBE unidirectional message begins with the standard DSO 12-byte header
[RFC8490]
in Figure 4.

, followed by the UNSUBSCRIBE Primary TLV. An UNSUBSCRIBE message is illustrated

In accordance with the de’¼ünition of DSO unidirectional messages, the MESSAGE ID ’¼üeld
zero. There is no server response to an UNSUBSCRIBE message.

MUST

 be

The other header ’¼üelds
OPCODE ’¼üeld contains the OPCODE value for DNS Stateful Operations (6). The four count ’¼üelds
must be zero, and the corresponding four sections must be empty (i.e., absent).

DSO speci’¼ücation [RFC8490]

 be set as described in the

. The DNS

MUST

The DSO-TYPE is UNSUBSCRIBE (0x0042).

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

The DSO-LENGTH ’¼üeld contains the value 2, the length of the 2-octet MESSAGE ID contained in
the DSO-DATA.

The DSO-DATA contains the value previously given in the MESSAGE ID ’¼üeld of an active
SUBSCRIBE request. This is how the server knows which SUBSCRIBE request is being canceled.
After receipt of the UNSUBSCRIBE message, the SUBSCRIBE request is no longer active.

It is allowable for the client to issue an UNSUBSCRIBE message for a previous SUBSCRIBE request
for which the client has not yet received a SUBSCRIBE response. This is to allow for the case
where a client starts and stops a subscription in less than the round-trip time to the server. The
client is NOT required to wait for the SUBSCRIBE response before issuing the UNSUBSCRIBE
message.

Consequently, it is possible for a server to receive an UNSUBSCRIBE message that does not match
any currently active subscription. This can occur when a client sends a SUBSCRIBE request,
which subsequently fails and returns an error code, but the client sent an UNSUBSCRIBE
message before it became aware that the SUBSCRIBE request had failed. Because of this, servers
MUST
subscription.

 silently ignore UNSUBSCRIBE messages that do not match any currently active

                                   1  1  1  1  1  1
     0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  1  2  3  4  5
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  \
   |           MESSAGE ID (MUST BE ZERO)           |   \
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |QR| OPCODE(6) |         Z          |   RCODE   |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             QDCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+     > HEADER
   |             ANCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             NSCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             ARCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |   /
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  /
   |         DSO-TYPE = UNSUBSCRIBE (0x0042)       |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
   |                DSO-LENGTH (2)                 |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  \
   |              SUBSCRIBE MESSAGE ID             |   > DSO-DATA
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  /

Figure 4: UNSUBSCRIBE Message

6.5.  DNS Push Noti’¼ücation RECONFIRM

Sometimes, particularly when used with a Discovery Proxy
stale data. When a client encounters data that it believes may be stale (e.g., an SRV record
referencing a target host+port that is not responding to connection requests), the client can send
a RECONFIRM message to ask the server to re-verify that the data is still valid. For a Discovery

, a DNS Zone may contain

[RFC8766]

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

Proxy, this causes it to issue new Multicast DNS queries to ascertain whether the target device is
still present. How the Discovery Proxy causes these new Multicast DNS queries to be issued
depends on the details of the underlying Multicast DNS implementation being used. For example,
a Discovery Proxy built on Apple's dns_sd.h API
 responds to a DNS Push Noti’¼ücation
RECONFIRM message by calling the underlying API's DNSServiceRecon’¼ürmRecord() routine.

[SD-API]

For other types of DNS server, the RECONFIRM operation is currently unde’¼üned and
result in a NOERROR response, but it need not cause any other action to occur.

SHOULD

Frequent use of RECONFIRM operations may be a sign of network unreliability, or some kind of
miscon’¼üguration, so RECONFIRM operations
MAY
human administrator to assist in detecting and remedying such network problems.

 be logged or otherwise communicated to a

If, after receiving a valid RECONFIRM message, the server determines that the disputed records
are in fact no longer valid, then subsequent DNS PUSH Messages will be generated to inform
interested clients. Thus, one client discovering that a previously advertised device (like a
network printer) is no longer present has the side e’¼Ćect of informing all other interested clients
that the device in question is now gone.

The entity that initiates a RECONFIRM message is by de’¼ünition the client. A server
send a RECONFIRM message over an existing session from a client. If a server does send a
RECONFIRM message over a DSO session initiated by a client, or a RECONFIRM message is sent
with the QR bit set indicating that it is a response, this is a fatal error and the receiver
forcibly abort the connection immediately.

MUST NOT

MUST

6.5.1.  RECONFIRM Message

A RECONFIRM unidirectional message begins with the standard DSO 12-byte header
followed by the RECONFIRM Primary TLV. A RECONFIRM message is illustrated in Figure 5.

,
[RFC8490]

In accordance with the de’¼ünition of DSO unidirectional messages, the MESSAGE ID ’¼üeld
zero. There is no server response to a RECONFIRM message.

MUST

 be

The other header ’¼üelds
OPCODE ’¼üeld contains the OPCODE value for DNS Stateful Operations (6). The four count ’¼üelds
must be zero, and the corresponding four sections must be empty (i.e., absent).

DSO speci’¼ücation [RFC8490]

 be set as described in the

. The DNS

MUST

The DSO-TYPE is RECONFIRM (0x0043).

The DSO-LENGTH is the length of the data that follows, which speci’¼ües the name, type, class, and
content of the record being disputed.

A DNS Push Noti’¼ücations RECONFIRM message contains exactly one RECONFIRM Primary TLV.
The DSO-DATA in a RECONFIRM Primary TLV
a RECONFIRM Primary TLV has no count ’¼üeld to specify more than one record. Since
RECONFIRM messages are sent over TCP, multiple RECONFIRM messages can be concatenated in
a single TCP stream and packed e’¼āciently into TCP segments. Note that this means that DNS
name compression cannot be used between di’¼Ćerent RECONFIRM messages. However, when a

 contain exactly one record. The DSO-DATA in

MUST

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

client is sending multiple RECONFIRM messages this indicates a situation with serious network
problems, and this is not expected to occur frequently enough that optimizing e’¼āciency in this
case is important.

TYPE

MUST NOT

 be the value ANY (255) and CLASS

MUST NOT

 be the value ANY (255).

DNS wildcarding is not supported. That is, an asterisk character ("*") in a RECONFIRM message
matches only a literal asterisk character ("*") in a name and nothing else. Similarly, a CNAME in a
RECONFIRM message matches only a CNAME record with that name in the zone and no other
records with that name.

Note that there is no RDLEN ’¼üeld, since the length of the RDATA can be inferred from DSO-
LENGTH, so an additional RDLEN ’¼üeld would be redundant.

Following the same rules as for PUSH messages, DNS name compression SHOULD be used within
the RDATA of the RECONFIRM message, with o’¼Ćsets relative to the beginning of the DNS message
.
[RFC1035]

                                   1  1  1  1  1  1
     0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  0  1  2  3  4  5
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  \
   |           MESSAGE ID (MUST BE ZERO)           |   \
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |QR| OPCODE(6) |         Z          |   RCODE   |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             QDCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+     > HEADER
   |             ANCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             NSCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |             ARCOUNT (MUST BE ZERO)            |   /
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  /
   |         DSO-TYPE = RECONFIRM (0x0043)         |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
   |   DSO-LENGTH (number of octets in DSO-DATA)   |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  \
   \                     NAME                      \   \
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   |                     TYPE                      |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+     > DSO-DATA
   |                     CLASS                     |    |
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+    |
   \                     RDATA                     \   /
   +--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+  /

Figure 5: RECONFIRM Message

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

6.6.  DNS Stateful Operations TLV Context Summary

This document de’¼ünes four new DSO TLVs. As recommended in
Operations speci’¼ücation [RFC8490]
below.

Section 8.2 of the DNS Stateful
, the valid contexts of these new TLV types are summarized

The client TLV contexts are:

C-P:
C-U:
C-A:
CRP:
CRA:

Client request message, Primary TLV
Client Unidirectional message, primary TLV
Client request or unidirectional message, Additional TLV
Response back to client, Primary TLV
Response back to client, Additional TLV

TLV Type

C-P

C-U

C-A CRP

CRA

SUBSCRIBE

X

PUSH

UNSUBSCRIBE

RECONFIRM

X

X

Table 2: DSO TLV Client Context Summary

The server TLV contexts are:

S-P:
S-U:
S-A:
SRP:
SRA:

Server request message, Primary TLV
Server Unidirectional message, primary TLV
Server request or unidirectional message, Additional TLV
Response back to server, Primary TLV
Response back to server, Additional TLV

TLV Type

S-P

S-U

S-A SRP

SRA

SUBSCRIBE

PUSH

X

UNSUBSCRIBE

RECONFIRM

Table 3: DSO TLV Server Context Summary

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

6.7.  Client-Initiated Termination

An individual subscription is terminated by sending an UNSUBSCRIBE TLV for that speci’¼üc
subscription, or all subscriptions can be canceled at once by the client closing the DSO session.
When a client terminates an individual subscription (via UNSUBSCRIBE) or all subscriptions on
that DSO session (by ending the session), it is signaling to the server that it is no longer interested
in receiving those particular updates. It is informing the server that the server may release any
state information it has been keeping with regards to these particular subscriptions.

After terminating its last subscription on a session via UNSUBSCRIBE, a client
session immediately or it may keep it open if it anticipates performing further operations on that
session in the future. If a client wishes to keep an idle session open, it
maximum idle time required by the server

 respect the

.
[RFC8490]

 close the

MUST

MAY

If a client plans to terminate one or more subscriptions on a session and doesn't intend to keep
that session open, then as an e’¼āciency optimization, it
 instead choose to simply close the
session, which implicitly terminates all subscriptions on that session. This may occur because the
client computer is being shut down, is going to sleep, the application requiring the subscriptions
has terminated, or simply because the last active subscription on that session has been canceled.

MAY

When closing a session, a client should perform an orderly close of the TLS session. Typical APIs
will provide a session close method that will send a TLS close_notify alert as described in
Section
6.1 of the TLS 1.3 speci’¼ücation [RFC8446]
send any more data over the session. After sending the TLS close_notify alert, the client
gracefully close the underlying connection using a TCP FIN so that the TLS close_notify is reliably
delivered. The mechanisms for gracefully closing a TCP connection with a TCP FIN vary
depending on the networking API. For example, in the BSD Sockets API, sending a TCP FIN is
achieved by calling "shutdown(s,SHUT_WR)" and keeping the socket open until all remaining
data has been read from it.

. This instructs the recipient that the sender will not
MUST

If the session is forcibly closed at the TCP level by sending a RST from either end of the
connection, data may be lost.

6.8.  Client Fallback to Polling

There are cases where a client may exhaust all avenues for establishing a DNS Push Noti’¼ücation
subscription without success. This can happen if the client's con’¼ügured recursive resolver does
not support DNS over TLS, or supports DNS over TLS but is not listening on TCP port 853, or
supports DNS over TLS on TCP port 853 but does not support DSO on that port, or for some other
reason is unable to provide a DNS Push Noti’¼ücation subscription. In this case, the client will
attempt to communicate directly with an appropriate server, and it may be that the zone apex
discovery fails, or there is no _dnsŌĆæpushŌĆætls._tcp.<zone> SRV record, or the server indicated
in the SRV record is miscon’¼ügured, overloaded, or is unresponsive for some other reason.

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

Regardless of the reason for the failure, after being unable to establish the desired DNS Push
Noti’¼ücation subscription, it is likely that the client will still wish to know the answer it seeks,
even if that answer cannot be obtained with the timely change noti’¼ücations provided by DNS
Push Noti’¼ücations. In such cases, it is likely that the client will obtain the answer it seeks via a
conventional DNS query instead, repeated at some interval to detect when the answer RRset
changes.

In the case where a client responds to its failure to establish a DNS Push Noti’¼ücation subscription
by falling back to polling with conventional DNS queries instead, the polling rate should be
controlled to avoid placing excessive burden on the server. The interval between successive DNS
queries for the same name, type, and class
minutes) or two seconds more than the TTL of the answer RRset.

 be at least the minimum of 900 seconds (15

SHOULD

The reason that for TTLs up to 898 seconds the query should not be reissued until two seconds
after the answer RRset has expired, is to ensure that the answer RRset has also expired from the
cache on the client's con’¼ügured recursive resolver. Otherwise (particularly if the clocks on the
client and the recursive resolver do not run at precisely the same rate), there's a risk of a race
condition where the client queries its con’¼ügured recursive resolver just as the answer RRset has
one second remaining in the recursive resolver's cache. The client would receive a reply telling it
that the answer RRset has one second remaining; the client would then requery the recursive
resolver again one second later. If by this time the answer RRset has actually expired from the
recursive resolver's cache, the recursive resolver would then issue a new query to fetch fresh
data from the authoritative server. Waiting until the answer RRset has de’¼ünitely expired from
the cache on the client's con’¼ügured recursive resolver avoids this race condition and any
unnecessary additional queries it causes.

Each time a client is about to reissue its query to discover changes to the answer RRset, it should
’¼ürst make a new attempt to establish a DNS Push Noti’¼ücation subscription using previously
cached DNS answers as appropriate. After a temporary miscon’¼üguration has been remedied, this
allows a client that is polling to return to using DNS Push Noti’¼ücations for asynchronous
noti’¼ücation of changes.

7.  Security Considerations

The Strict Privacy pro’¼üle for DNS over TLS is
Cleartext connections for DNS Push Noti’¼ücations are not permissible. Since this is a new
protocol, transition mechanisms from the Opportunistic Privacy pro’¼üle are unnecessary.

 for DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

REQUIRED

[RFC8310]
.

Also, see
recommendations for various versions of TLS usage.

Section 9 of the document Usage Pro’¼üles for DNS over (D)TLS [RFC8310]

 for additional

As a consequence of requiring TLS, client certi’¼ücate authentication and veri’¼ücation may also be
enforced by the server for stronger client-server security or end-to-end security. However,
recommendations for security in particular deployment scenarios are outside the scope of this
document.

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

RECOMMENDED

 for the authentication of DNS Push Noti’¼ücation servers. TLS alone

DNSSEC is
does not provide complete security. TLS certi’¼ücate veri’¼ücation can provide reasonable assurance
that the client is really talking to the server associated with the desired host name, but since the
desired host name is learned via a DNS SRV query, if the SRV query is subverted, then the client
may have a secure connection to a rogue server. DNSSEC can provide added con’¼üdence that the
SRV query has not been subverted.

7.1.  Security Services

It is the goal of using TLS to provide the following security services:

Con’¼üdentiality:

All application-layer communication is encrypted with the goal that no party

should be able to decrypt it except the intended receiver.

Data integrity protection:
the receiver.

Any changes made to the communication in transit are detectable by

Authentication:

An endpoint of the TLS communication is authenticated as the intended entity

to communicate with.

Anti-replay protection:

TLS provides for the detection of and prevention against messages sent

previously over a TLS connection (such as DNS Push Noti’¼ücations). If prior messages are
re-sent at a later time as a form of a man-in-the-middle attack, then the receiver will detect
this and reject the replayed messages.

Deployment recommendations on the appropriate key lengths and cipher suites are beyond the
scope of this document. Please refer to the current TLS Recommendations
 for the best
current practices. Keep in mind that best practices only exist for a snapshot in time, and
recommendations will continue to change. Updated versions or errata may exist for these
recommendations.

[BCP195]

7.2.  TLS Name Authentication

As described in Section 6.1, the client discovers the DNS Push Noti’¼ücation server using an SRV
lookup for the record name _dnsŌĆæpushŌĆætls._tcp.<zone>. The server connection endpoint
 then be authenticated using DANE TLSA records for the associated SRV record. This
SHOULD
associates the target's name and port number with a trusted TLS certi’¼ücate
procedure uses the TLS Server Name Indication (SNI) extension
 to inform the server
of the name the client has authenticated through the use of TLSA records. Therefore, if the SRV
record passes DNSSEC validation and a TLSA record matching the target name is usable, an SNI
extension must be used for the target name to ensure the client is connecting to the server it has
authenticated. If the target name does not have a usable TLSA record, then the use of the SNI
extension is optional. See Usage Pro’¼üles for DNS over TLS and DNS over DTLS
 for
more information on authenticating domain names.

[RFC6066]

[RFC8310]

[RFC7673]

. This

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

7.3.  TLS Early Data

DSO messages with the SUBSCRIBE TLV as the Primary TLV are permitted in TLS early data.
Using TLS early data can save one network round trip and can result in the client obtaining
results faster.

However, there are some factors to consider before using TLS early data.

TLS early data is not forward secret. In cases where forward secrecy of DNS Push Noti’¼ücation
subscriptions is required, the client should not use TLS early data.

With TLS early data, there are no guarantees of non-replay between connections. If packets are
duplicated and delayed in the network, the later arrivals could be mistaken for new subscription
requests. Generally, this is not a major concern since the amount of state generated on the server
for these spurious subscriptions is small and short lived since the TCP connection will not
complete the three-way handshake. Servers
that are activated when the server detects an excessive number of spurious subscription
requests.

 choose to implement rate-limiting measures

MAY

For further guidance on use of TLS early data, please see discussion of zero round-trip data in
Sections 2.3 and 8, and Appendix E.5, of

the TLS 1.3 speci’¼ücation [RFC8446]

.

7.4.  TLS Session Resumption

[RFC8446]

TLS session resumption
 is permissible on DNS Push Noti’¼ücation servers. However,
closing the TLS connection terminates the DSO session. When the TLS session is resumed, the
DNS Push Noti’¼ücation server will not have any subscription state and will proceed as with any
other new DSO session. Use of TLS session resumption may allow a TLS connection to be set up
more quickly, but the client will still have to recreate any desired subscriptions.

8.  IANA Considerations

This document de’¼ünes a new service name, only applicable for the TCP protocol, which has been
recorded in the IANA "Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry"
.
[SRVTYPE]

[RFC6335]

Name

Port

Value

Section

DNS Push Noti’¼ücation Service Type None

_dnsŌĆæpushŌĆætls._tcp

6.1

Table 4: IANA Service Type Assignments

This document de’¼ünes four new DNS Stateful Operation TLV types, which have been recorded in
the IANA "DSO Type Codes" registry

[RFC8490] [DSOTYPE]

.

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

Name

Value

Early Data

Status

Section

SUBSCRIBE

0x0040

PUSH

0x0041

UNSUBSCRIBE

0x0042

RECONFIRM

0x0043

OK

NO

NO

NO

Standards Track

Standards Track

Standards Track

Standards Track

6.2

6.3

6.4

6.5

Table 5: IANA DSO TLV Type Code Assignments

This document de’¼ünes no new DNS OPCODEs or RCODEs.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[DSOTYPE]

[RFC0020]

[RFC0768]

[RFC0793]

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC1123]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2136]

,

IANA "Domain Name System (DNS) Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/dns-parameters/>

,

.

,
Cerf, V. "ASCII format for network interchange" STD 80 RFC 20 DOI 10.17487/
RFC0020

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc20>

, October 1969,

,
.

,

,

,

Postel, J. "User Datagram Protocol" STD 6 RFC 768 DOI 10.17487/RFC0768
August 1980,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc768>

.

,

,

,

,

,
Postel, J. "Transmission Control Protocol" STD 7 RFC 793 DOI 10.17487/
, September 1981,
RFC0793

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc793>

.

,

,

,

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

.

,

,
Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speci’¼ücation" STD 13
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

,

Braden, R., Ed. "Requirements for Internet Hosts - Application and Support"
STD 3 RFC 1123 DOI 10.17487/RFC1123
editor.org/info/rfc1123>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 1989,

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Vixie, P., Ed., Thomson, S., Rekhter, Y., and J. Bound "Dynamic Updates in the
,
Domain Name System (DNS UPDATE)" RFC 2136 DOI 10.17487/RFC2136
1997,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2136>

, April

,

.

,

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

[RFC2181]

[RFC2782]

[RFC6066]

[RFC6335]

[RFC6895]

[RFC7673]

[RFC7766]

[RFC7858]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8310]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8490]

[SRVTYPE]

Elz, R. and R. Bush "Clari’¼ücations to the DNS Speci’¼ücation" RFC 2181 DOI
10.17487/RFC2181

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2181>

,
, July 1997,

,

.

Gulbrandsen, A., Vixie, P., and L. Esibov "A DNS RR for specifying the location of
,
services (DNS SRV)" RFC 2782 DOI 10.17487/RFC2782
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2782>

, February 2000,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
De’¼ünitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6066>

, January 2011,

.

<https://www.rfc-

Cotton, M., Eggert, L., Touch, J., Westerlund, M., and S. Cheshire "Internet
Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Procedures for the Management of the
Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry" BCP 165 RFC 6335
DOI 10.17487/RFC6335

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6335>

, August 2011,

,

,

,

.

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Domain Name System (DNS) IANA Considerations" BCP 42
,
RFC 6895 DOI 10.17487/RFC6895
, April 2013,
rfc6895>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

Finch, T., Miller, M., and P. Saint-Andre "Using DNS-Based Authentication of
Named Entities (DANE) TLSA Records with SRV Records" RFC 7673 DOI
10.17487/RFC7673

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7673>

, October 2015,

,

,

.

,

Dickinson, J., Dickinson, S., Bellis, R., Mankin, A., and D. Wessels "DNS Transport
over TCP - Implementation Requirements" RFC 7766 DOI 10.17487/RFC7766
March 2016,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7766>

,

,

,

.

Hu, Z., Zhu, L., Heidemann, J., Mankin, A., Wessels, D., and P. Ho’¼Ćman
"Speci’¼ücation for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,
Dickinson, S., Gillmor, D., and T. Reddy "Usage Pro’¼üles for DNS over TLS and
,
DNS over DTLS" RFC 8310 DOI 10.17487/RFC8310
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8310>

, March 2018,

<https://

,

.

,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Bellis, R., Cheshire, S., Dickinson, J., Dickinson, S., Lemon, T., and T. Pusateri
,
"DNS Stateful Operations" RFC 8490 DOI 10.17487/RFC8490
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8490>

, March 2019,

,

.

,

,

IANA "Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/service-names-port-numbers/>

.

,

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

9.2.  Informative References

[BCP195]

[OBS]

[RFC2308]

[RFC3123]

[RFC4287]

[RFC4953]

[RFC6281]

[RFC6762]

[RFC6763]

[RFC6886]

[RFC6887]

[RFC7413]

[RFC8010]

[RFC8011]

She’¼Ćer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp195>

, May 2015,

.

,

Wikipedia "Observer pattern"
index.php?title=Observer_pattern&oldid=939702131>

, February 2020,

,

.

<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/

Andrews, M. "Negative Caching of DNS Queries (DNS NCACHE)" RFC 2308 DOI
10.17487/RFC2308

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2308>

, March 1998,

,
.

,

,

,
Koch, P. "A DNS RR Type for Lists of Address Pre’¼üxes (APL RR)" RFC 3123 DOI
10.17487/RFC3123

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3123>

, June 2001,

,

,

.

Nottingham, M., Ed. and R. Sayre, Ed. "The Atom Syndication Format" RFC 4287
DOI 10.17487/RFC4287
rfc4287>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2005,

.

,

,

,

,
Touch, J. "Defending TCP Against Spoo’¼üng Attacks" RFC 4953 DOI 10.17487/
, July 2007,
RFC4953

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4953>

,
.

,

Cheshire, S., Zhu, Z., Wakikawa, R., and L. Zhang "Understanding Apple's Back to
My Mac (BTMM) Service" RFC 6281 DOI 10.17487/RFC6281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6281>

, June 2011,

<https://

,

,

.

,

,
Cheshire, S. and M. Krochmal "Multicast DNS" RFC 6762 DOI 10.17487/RFC6762
February 2013,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6762>

,

,

Cheshire, S. and M. Krochmal "DNS-Based Service Discovery" RFC 6763 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6763>
10.17487/RFC6763

, February 2013,

,

,

,

Cheshire, S. and M. Krochmal "NAT Port Mapping Protocol (NAT-PMP)" RFC
,
6886 DOI 10.17487/RFC6886
rfc6886>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, April 2013,

.

,

,

Wing, D., Ed., Cheshire, S., Boucadair, M., Penno, R., and P. Selkirk "Port Control
<https://www.rfc-
Protocol (PCP)" RFC 6887 DOI 10.17487/RFC6887
.
editor.org/info/rfc6887>

, April 2013,

,

,

,

Cheng, Y., Chu, J., Radhakrishnan, S., and A. Jain "TCP Fast Open" RFC 7413 DOI
10.17487/RFC7413

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7413>

, December 2014,

,

,

.

,
Sweet, M. and I. McDonald "Internet Printing Protocol/1.1: Encoding and
Transport" STD 92 RFC 8010 DOI 10.17487/RFC8010
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8010>

, January 2017,

,

,

,

.

<https://

,
Sweet, M. and I. McDonald "Internet Printing Protocol/1.1: Model and
Semantics" STD 92 RFC 8011 DOI 10.17487/RFC8011
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8011>

, January 2017,

,

,

,

.

<https://

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

[RFC8499]

[RFC8684]

[RFC8764]

[RFC8766]

[SD-API]

[SYN]

[TCPRACK]

[XEP0060]

Ho’¼Ćman, P., Sullivan, A., and K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
8499 DOI 10.17487/RFC8499
,
rfc8499>

, January 2019,

,

,

,

.

Ford, A., Raiciu, C., Handley, M., Bonaventure, O., and C. Paasch "TCP Extensions
for Multipath Operation with Multiple Addresses" RFC 8684 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8684

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8684>

, March 2020,

,

,

,

.

Cheshire, S. and M. Krochmal "Apple's DNS Long-Lived Queries Protocol" RFC
8764 DOI 10.17487/RFC8764
,
rfc8764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2020,

,

,

.

,

Cheshire, S. "Discovery Proxy for Multicast DNS-Based Service Discovery" RFC
8766 DOI 10.17487/RFC8766
,
rfc8766>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2020,

,

.

Apple Inc. "dns_sd.h" <https://opensource.apple.com/source/mDNSResponder/
mDNSResponder-878.70.2/mDNSShared/dns_sd.h.auto.html>

.

,

,

,
,

Eddy, W. "Defenses Against TCP SYN Flooding Attacks" The Internet Protocol
Journal Cisco Systems Volume 9 Number 4
,
www.cisco.com/web/about/ac123/ac147/archived_issues/ipj_9-4/ipj_9-4.pdf>

, December 2006,

<https://

.

,

,

Cheng, Y., Cardwell, N., Dukkipati, N., and P. Jha "RACK: a time-based fast loss
detection algorithm for TCP" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tcpm-
rack-08

,
,
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-tcpm-rack-08>

, 9 March 2020,

,

.

Millard, P., Saint-Andre, P., and R. Meijer "Publish-Subscribe" XSF XEP 0060
October 2019,

<https://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0060.html>

.

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
this ’¼üeld.

Kiren Sekar

 and

Marc Krochmal

 for previous work completed in

,

This document has been improved due to comments from
Dickinson Mark Delany Ralph Droms Jan Komissar Eric Rescorla Michael Richardson David
Schinazi Manju Shankar Rao Robert Sparks Markus Stenberg Andrew Sullivan Michael Sweet
,
Dave Thaler Brian Trammell Bernie Volz ├ēric Vyncke Christopher Wood Liang Xia
Soraia
,
Zlatkovic Ted Lemon
.

,
 provided clarifying text that was greatly appreciated.

Ran Atkinson Tim Chown Sara

, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8765

DNS Push Noti’¼ücations

June 2020

Authors' Addresses

Tom Pusateri
Una’¼āliated
Raleigh NC 27608
,
United States of America
 +1 919 867 1330
Phone:
Email:
 pusateri@bangj.com

Stuart Cheshire
Apple Inc.
One Apple Park Way
Cupertino CA 95014
,
United States of America
 +1 (408) 996-1010
Phone:
 cheshire@apple.com
Email:

Pusateri & Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 32

