Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8739
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721

Y. Sheﬀer
Intuit

D. Lopez
Telefonica I+D

O. Gonzalez de Dios
Telefonica I+D

A. Pastor Perales
Telefonica I+D

T. Fossati
ARM

RFC 8739
Support for Short-Term, Automatically Renewed
(STAR) Certiﬁcates in the Automated Certiﬁcate
Management Environment (ACME)

Abstract

Public key certiﬁcates need to be revoked when they are compromised, that is, when the
associated private key is exposed to an unauthorized entity. However, the revocation process is
often unreliable. An alternative to revocation is issuing a sequence of certiﬁcates, each with a
short validity period, and terminating the sequence upon compromise. This memo proposes an
Automated Certiﬁcate Management Environment (ACME) extension to enable the issuance of
Short-Term, Automatically Renewed (STAR) X.509 certiﬁcates.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8739

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Name Delegation Use Case

1.2.  Terminology

1.3.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.  Protocol Flow

2.1.  Bootstrap

2.2.  Auto Renewal

2.3.  Termination

3.  Protocol Details

3.1.  ACME Extensions

3.1.1.  Extending the Order Resource

3.1.2.  Canceling an Auto-renewal Order

3.2.  Capability Discovery

3.3.  Fetching the Certiﬁcates

3.4.  Negotiating an Unauthenticated GET

3.5.  Computing notBefore and notAfter of STAR Certiﬁcates

3.5.1.  Example

4.  Operational Considerations

4.1.  The Meaning of "Short Term" and the Impact of Skewed Clocks

4.2.  Impact on Certiﬁcate Transparency (CT) Logs

4.3.  HTTP Caching and Dependability

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  New Registries

5.2.  New Error Types

5.3.  New Fields in Order Objects

5.4.  Fields in the "auto-renewal" Object within an Order Object

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

5.5.  New Fields in the "meta" Object within a Directory Object

5.6.  Fields in the "auto-renewal" Object within a Directory Metadata Object

5.7.  Cert-Not-Before and Cert-Not-After HTTP Headers

6.  Security Considerations

6.1.  No Revocation

6.2.  Denial-of-Service Considerations

6.3.  Privacy Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The ACME protocol
Identiﬁer Owner or IdO). Typically, but not always, the identiﬁer is a domain name.

 automates the process of issuing a certiﬁcate to a named entity (an

[RFC8555]

[TOPALOVIC]

 about why using short-lived certiﬁcates might be preferable to explicit

If the IdO wishes to obtain a string of short-term certiﬁcates originating from the same private
key (see
revocation), she must go through the whole ACME protocol each time a new short-term
certiﬁcate is needed, e.g., every 2-3 days. If done this way, the process would involve frequent
interactions between the registration function of the ACME Certiﬁcation Authority (CA) and the
identity provider infrastructure (e.g., DNS, web servers), therefore making the issuance of short-
term certiﬁcates exceedingly dependent on the reliability of both.

This document presents an extension of the ACME protocol that optimizes this process by making
short-term certiﬁcates ﬁrst-class objects in the ACME ecosystem. Once the Order for a string of
short-term certiﬁcates is accepted, the CA is responsible for publishing the next certiﬁcate at an
agreed upon URL before the previous one expires. The IdO can terminate the automatic renewal
before the negotiated deadline if needed, e.g., on key compromise.

For a more generic treatment of STAR certiﬁcates, readers are referred to

[SHORT-TERM-CERTS]

.

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

1.1.  Name Delegation Use Case

The proposed mechanism can be used as a building block of an eﬃcient name-delegation
protocol, for example, one that exists between a Content Distribution Network (CDN) or a cloud
provider and its customers
. At any time, the service customer (i.e., the IdO)
can terminate the delegation by simply instructing the CA to stop the automatic renewal and
letting the currently active certiﬁcate expire shortly thereafter.

[STAR-DELEGATION]

Note that in the name delegation use case, the delegated entity needs to access the auto-renewed
certiﬁcate without being in possession of the ACME account key that was used for initiating the
STAR issuance. This leads to the optional use of unauthenticated GET in this protocol (Section
3.4).

1.2.  Terminology

IdO

STAR

Identiﬁer Owner, the owner of an identiﬁer, e.g., a domain name, a telephone number,
etc.
Short-Term, Automatically Renewed X.509 certiﬁcates.

1.3.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Protocol Flow

The following subsections describe the three main phases of the protocol:

•

Bootstrap: the IdO asks an ACME CA to create a short-term, automatically renewed (STAR)
certiﬁcate (Section 2.1);

•

Auto-renewal: the ACME CA periodically reissues the short-term certiﬁcate and posts it to the
star-certiﬁcate URL (Section 2.2);

•

Termination: the IdO requests the ACME CA to discontinue the automatic renewal of the
certiﬁcate (Section 2.3).

2.1.  Bootstrap

The IdO, in its role as an ACME client, requests the CA to issue a STAR certiﬁcate, i.e., one that:

•

Has a short validity, e.g., 24 to 72 hours. Note that the exact deﬁnition of "short" depends on
the use case;

•

Is automatically renewed by the CA for a certain period of time;

•

Is downloadable from a (highly available) location.

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

Other than that, the ACME protocol ﬂows as usual between IdO and CA. In particular, IdO is
responsible for satisfying the requested ACME challenges until the CA is willing to issue the
requested certiﬁcate. Per normal ACME processing, the IdO is given back an Order resource
associated with the STAR certiﬁcate to be used in subsequent interaction with the CA (e.g., if the
certiﬁcate needs to be terminated.)

The bootstrap phase ends when the ACME CA updates the Order resource to include the URL for
the issued STAR certiﬁcate.

2.2.  Auto Renewal

The CA issues the initial certiﬁcate after the authorization completes successfully. It then
automatically reissues the certiﬁcate using the same Certiﬁcate Signing Request (CSR) (and
therefore the same identiﬁer and public key) before the previous one expires and publishes it to
the URL that was returned to the IdO at the end of the bootstrap phase. The certiﬁcate user,
which could be either the IdO itself or a delegated third party as described in
, obtains the certiﬁcate (Section 3.3) and uses it.
DELEGATION]

[STAR-

The auto-renewal process (Figure 1) goes on until either:

•

IdO explicitly terminates the automatic renewal (Section 2.3); or

•

Automatic renewal expires.

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

   Certificate             ACME/STAR
   User                    Server
   |     Retrieve cert     |                     [...]
   |---------------------->|                      |
   |                       +------.              /
   |                       |      |             /
   |                       | Automatic renewal :
   |                       |      |             \
   |                       |<-----'              \
   |     Retrieve cert     |                      |
   |---------------------->|            short validity period
   |                       |                      |
   |                       +------.              /
   |                       |      |             /
   |                       | Automatic renewal :
   |                       |      |             \
   |                       |<-----'              \
   |     Retrieve cert     |                      |
   |---------------------->|            short validity period
   |                       |                      |
   |                       +------.              /
   |                       |      |             /
   |                       | Automatic renewal :
   |                       |      |             \
   |                       |<-----'              \
   |                       |                      |
   |         [...]         |                    [...]

Figure 1: Auto-renewal

2.3.  Termination

The IdO may request early termination of the STAR certiﬁcate by sending a cancellation request
to the Order resource as described in Section 3.1.2. After the CA receives and veriﬁes the request,
it shall:

•

Cancel the automatic renewal process for the STAR certiﬁcate;

•

Change the certiﬁcate publication resource to return an error indicating the termination of
the issuance;

•

Change the status of the Order to "canceled".

Note that it is not necessary to explicitly revoke the short-term certiﬁcate.

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

   Certificate                                     ACME/STAR
   User                    IdO                     Server
   |                       |                       |
   |                       |      Cancel Order     |
   |                       +---------------------->|
   |                       |                       +-------.
   |                       |                       |       |
   |                       |                       | End auto-renewal
   |                       |                       | Remove cert link
   |                       |                       | etc.
   |                       |                       |       |
   |                       |         Done          |<------'
   |                       |<----------------------+
   |                       |                       |
   |                                               |
   |              Retrieve cert                    |
   +---------------------------------------------->|
   |              Error: autoRenewalCanceled       |
   |<----------------------------------------------+
   |                                               |

Figure 2: Termination

3.  Protocol Details

This section describes the protocol details, namely the extensions to the ACME protocol required
to issue STAR certiﬁcates.

3.1.  ACME Extensions

This protocol extends the ACME protocol to allow for automatically renewed Orders.

3.1.1.  Extending the Order Resource

The Order resource is extended with a new "auto-renewal" object that
certiﬁcates. The "auto-renewal" object has the following structure:

MUST

 be present for STAR

•

start-date (optional, string): The earliest date of validity of the ﬁrst certiﬁcate issued, in
 format. When omitted, the start date is as soon as authorization is complete.
[RFC3339]

•

end-date (required, string): The latest date of validity of the last certiﬁcate issued, in
[RFC3339]

 format.

•

lifetime (required, integer): The maximum validity period of each STAR certiﬁcate, an integer
that denotes a number of seconds. This is a nominal value that does not include any extra
validity time due to server or client adjustment (see below).

•

lifetime-adjust (optional, integer): The amount of "left pad" added to each STAR certiﬁcate, an
integer that denotes a number of seconds. The default is 0. If present, the value of the
notBefore ﬁeld that would otherwise appear in the STAR certiﬁcates is pre-dated by the
speciﬁed number of seconds. See Section 4.1 for why a client might want to use this control,
and Section 3.5 for how the eﬀective certiﬁcate lifetime is computed. The value reﬂected by

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

the server, together with the value of the lifetime attribute, can be used by the client as a
hint to conﬁgure its polling timer.

•

allow-certiﬁcate-get (optional, boolean): See Section 3.4.

These attributes are included in a POST message when creating the Order as part of the object
encoded as "payload". They are returned when the Order has been created. The ACME server
MAY

 adjust them at will according to its local policy (see also Section 3.2).

The optional notBefore and notAfter ﬁelds deﬁned in
present in a STAR Order. If they are included, the server
400 (Bad Request) and type "malformedRequest".

Section 7.1.3 of [RFC8555] MUST NOT

 be

MUST

 return an error with status code

 deﬁnes the following values for the Order resource's status: "pending",

Section 7.1.6 of [RFC8555]
"ready", "processing", "valid", and "invalid". In the case of auto-renewal Orders, the status
MUST
be "valid" as long as STAR certiﬁcates are being issued. This document adds a new status value:
"canceled" (see Section 3.1.2).

A STAR certiﬁcate is by deﬁnition a dynamic resource, i.e., it refers to an entity that varies over
time. Instead of overloading the semantics of the "certiﬁcate" attribute, this document deﬁnes a
new attribute, "star-certiﬁcate", to be used instead of "certiﬁcate".

•

star-certiﬁcate (optional, string): A URL for the (rolling) STAR certiﬁcate that has been issued
in response to this Order.

3.1.2.  Canceling an Auto-renewal Order

An important property of the auto-renewal Order is that it can be canceled by the IdO with no
need for certiﬁcate revocation. To cancel the Order, the ACME client sends a POST to the Order
URL as shown in Figure 3.

  POST /acme/order/ogfr8EcolOT HTTP/1.1
  Host: example.com
  Content-Type: application/jose+json

  {
    "protected": base64url({
      "alg": "ES256",
      "kid": "https://example.com/acme/acct/gw06UNhKfOve",
      "nonce": "Alc00Ap6Rt7GMkEl3L1JX5",
      "url": "https://example.com/acme/order/ogfr8EcolOT"
    }),
    "payload": base64url({
      "status": "canceled"
    }),
    "signature": "g454e3hdBlkT4AEw...nKePnUyZTjGtXZ6H"
  }

Figure 3: Canceling an Auto-renewal Order

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

After a successful cancellation, the server
Order.

When the Order is canceled, the server:

MUST NOT

 issue any additional certiﬁcates for this

• MUST

 update the status of the Order resource to "canceled" and

MUST

 set an appropriate

"expires" date;

• MUST

 respond with 403 (Forbidden) to any requests to the star-certiﬁcate endpoint. The
[RFC7807]

 provide additional information using a problem document

response
type "urn:ietf:params:acme:error:autoRenewalCanceled".

SHOULD

 with

Issuing a cancellation for an Order that is not in "valid" state is not allowed. A client
send such a request, and a server
Request) and type "urn:ietf:params:acme:error:autoRenewalCancellationInvalid".

 return an error response with status code 400 (Bad

MUST

MUST NOT

The state machine described in

Section 7.1.6 of [RFC8555]

 is extended as illustrated in Figure 4.

    pending --------------+
       |                  |
       | All authz        |
       | "valid"          |
       V                  |
     ready ---------------+
       |                  |
       | Receive          |
       | finalize         |
       | request          |
       V                  |
   processing ------------+
       |                  |
       | First            |
       | certificate      | Error or
       | issued           | Authorization failure
       |                  |
       |                  V
       |               invalid
       V
     valid----------------+
       |                  |
       | STAR             |
       | Certificate      | Natural
       | canceled         | Expiration
       V                  |
    canceled             ='=

Figure 4: State Transitions for STAR Order Objects

Explicit certiﬁcate revocation using the revokeCert interface (
supported for STAR certiﬁcates. A server receiving a revocation request for a STAR certiﬁcate
MUST
"urn:ietf:params:acme:error:autoRenewalRevocationNotSupported".

 return an error response with status code 403 (Forbidden) and type

Section 7.6 of [RFC8555]

) is not

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

3.2.  Capability Discovery

In order to support the discovery of STAR capabilities, the "meta" ﬁeld inside the directory object
deﬁned in
renewal" object

 be present if the server supports STAR. Its structure is as follows:

 is extended with a new "auto-renewal" object. The "auto-

Section 9.7.6 of [RFC8555]

MUST

•

min-lifetime (required, integer): Minimum acceptable value for auto-renewal lifetime, in
seconds.

•

max-duration (required, integer): Maximum allowed delta between the end-date and start-
date attributes of the Order's auto-renewal object.

•

allow-certiﬁcate-get (optional, boolean): See Section 3.4.

An example directory object advertising STAR support with one-day min-lifetime and one-year
max-duration and supporting certiﬁcate fetching with an HTTP GET is shown in Figure 5.

 {
    "new-nonce": "https://example.com/acme/new-nonce",
    "new-account": "https://example.com/acme/new-account",
    "new-order": "https://example.com/acme/new-order",
    "new-authz": "https://example.com/acme/new-authz",
    "revoke-cert": "https://example.com/acme/revoke-cert",
    "key-change": "https://example.com/acme/key-change",
    "meta": {
      "terms-of-service": "https://example.com/acme/terms/2017-5-30",
      "website": "https://www.example.com/",
      "caa-identities": ["example.com"],
      "auto-renewal": {
        "min-lifetime": 86400,
        "max-duration":  31536000,
        "allow-certificate-get": true
      }
    }
 }

Figure 5: Directory Object with STAR Support

3.3.  Fetching the Certiﬁcates

Section 7.4.2
 unless the client and server have successfully negotiated the "unauthenticated GET"

The certiﬁcate is fetched from the star-certiﬁcate endpoint with POST-as-GET as per
of [RFC8555]
option described in Section 3.4. In such case, the client can simply issue a GET to the star-
certiﬁcate resource without authenticating itself to the server as illustrated in Figure 6.

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

  GET /acme/cert/g7m3ZQeTEqa HTTP/1.1
  Host: example.com
  Accept: application/pem-certificate-chain

  HTTP/1.1 200 OK
  Content-Type: application/pem-certificate-chain
  Link: <https://example.com/acme/some-directory>;rel="index"
  Cert-Not-Before: Thu, 3 Oct 2019 00:00:00 GMT
  Cert-Not-After: Thu, 10 Oct 2019 00:00:00 GMT

  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  [End-entity certificate contents]
  -----END CERTIFICATE-----
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  [Issuer certificate contents]
  -----END CERTIFICATE-----
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  [Other certificate contents]
  -----END CERTIFICATE-----

Figure 6: Fetching a STAR Certiﬁcate with Unauthenticated GET

 include the "Cert-Not-Before" and "Cert-Not-After" HTTP header ﬁelds in the

The server
SHOULD
response. When they exist, they
certiﬁcate. Their format is "HTTP-date" as deﬁned in
is to enable client implementations that do not parse the certiﬁcate.

MUST

 be equal to the respective ﬁelds inside the end-entity

Section 7.1.1.2 of [RFC7231]

. Their purpose

The following are further clariﬁcations regarding usage of these header ﬁelds as per
of [RFC7231]

. All apply to both headers.

Section 8.3.1

•

This header ﬁeld is a single value, not a list.

•

The header ﬁeld is used only in responses to GET, HEAD, and POST-as-GET requests, and only
for MIME types that denote public key certiﬁcates.

•

Header ﬁeld semantics are independent of context.

•

The header ﬁeld is not hop-by-hop.

•

Intermediaries

MAY

 insert or delete the value;

•

If an intermediary inserts the value, it
corresponding value in the certiﬁcate.

MUST

 ensure that the newly added value matches the

•

The header ﬁeld is not appropriate for a Vary ﬁeld.

•

The header ﬁeld is allowed within message trailers.

•

The header ﬁeld is not appropriate within redirects.

•

The header ﬁeld does not introduce additional security considerations. It discloses in a
simpler form information that is already available inside the certiﬁcate.

To improve robustness, the next certiﬁcate
 be made available by the ACME CA at the URL
indicated by "star-certiﬁcate" halfway through the lifetime of the currently active certiﬁcate at
the latest. It is worth noting that this has an implication in case of cancellation; in fact, from the
time the next certiﬁcate is made available, the cancellation is not completely eﬀective until the

MUST

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

"next" certiﬁcate also expires. To avoid the client accidentally entering a broken state, the
notBefore of the "next" certiﬁcate
published at the "star-certiﬁcate" URL. Note that the server might need to increase the auto-
renewal lifetime-adjust value to satisfy the latter requirement. For a detailed description of the
renewal scheduling logic, see Section 3.5. For further rationale on the need for adjusting the
certiﬁcate validity, see Section 4.1.

 be set so that the certiﬁcate is already valid when it is

MUST

The server
end-date.

MUST NOT

 issue any certiﬁcates for this Order with notAfter after the auto-renewal

For expired Orders, the server
certiﬁcate endpoint. The response
document
Order resource's state remains "valid", as per the base protocol.

[RFC7807]

SHOULD

MUST

 respond with 403 (Forbidden) to any requests to the star-

 provide additional information using a problem

 with type "urn:ietf:params:acme:error:autoRenewalExpired". Note that the

3.4.  Negotiating an Unauthenticated GET

In order to enable the name delegation workﬂow deﬁned in
the reliability of the STAR ecosystem (see Section 4.3 for details), this document deﬁnes a
mechanism that allows a server to advertise support for accessing star-certiﬁcate resources via
unauthenticated GET (in addition to POST-as-GET), and a client to enable this service with per-
Order granularity.

[STAR-DELEGATION]

 and to increase

Speciﬁcally, a server states its availability to grant unauthenticated access to a client's Order star-
certiﬁcate by setting the allow-certiﬁcate-get attribute to "true" in the auto-renewal object of the
meta ﬁeld inside the directory object:

•

allow-certiﬁcate-get (optional, boolean): If this ﬁeld is present and set to "true", the server
allows GET (and HEAD) requests to star-certiﬁcate URLs.

A client states its desire to access the issued star-certiﬁcate via unauthenticated GET by adding an
allow-certiﬁcate-get attribute to the auto-renewal object of the payload of its newOrder request
and setting it to "true".

•

allow-certiﬁcate-get (optional, boolean): If this ﬁeld is present and set to "true", the client
requests the server to allow unauthenticated GET (and HEAD) to the star-certiﬁcate
associated with this Order.

If the server accepts the request, it

MUST

 reﬂect the attribute setting in the resulting order object.

Note that even when the use of unauthenticated GET has been agreed upon, the server
allow POST-as-GET requests to the star-certiﬁcate resource.

MUST

 also

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

3.5.  Computing notBefore and notAfter of STAR Certiﬁcates

We deﬁne "nominal renewal date" as the point in time when a new short-term certiﬁcate for a
given STAR Order is due. Its cadence is a multiple of the Order's auto-renewal lifetime that starts
with the issuance of the ﬁrst short-term certiﬁcate and is upper-bounded by the Order's auto-
renewal end-date (Figure 7).

    T      - STAR Order's auto-renewal lifetime
    end    - STAR Order's auto-renewal end-date
    nrd[i] - nominal renewal date of the i-th STAR certificate

                 .- T -.   .- T -.   .- T -.   .__.
                /       \ /       \ /       \ /  end
    -----------o---------o---------o---------o----X-------> t
              nrd[0]    nrd[1]    nrd[2]    nrd[3]

Figure 7: Nominal Renewal Date

The rules to determine the notBefore and notAfter values of the i-th STAR certiﬁcate are as
follows:

    notAfter  = min(nrd[i] + T, end)
    notBefore = nrd[i] - max(adjust_client, adjust_server)

Where "adjust_client" is the minimum value between the auto-renewal lifetime-adjust value
("la"), optionally supplied by the client, and the auto-renewal lifetime of each short-term
certiﬁcate ("T"); "adjust_server" is the amount of padding added by the ACME server to make sure
that all certiﬁcates being published are valid at the time of publication. The server padding is a
fraction (f) of T (i.e., f * T with .5 <= f < 1; see Section 3.3):

    adjust_client = min(T, la)
    adjust_server = f * T

Note that the ACME server
to the auto-renewal start-date.

MUST NOT

3.5.1.  Example

 set the notBefore of the ﬁrst STAR certiﬁcate to a date prior

Given a server that intends to publish the next STAR certiﬁcate halfway through the lifetime of
the previous one, and a STAR Order with the following attributes:

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

     "auto-renewal": {
       "start-date": "2019-01-10T00:00:00Z",
       "end-date": "2019-01-20T00:00:00Z",
       "lifetime": 345600,          // 4 days
       "lifetime-adjust": 259200    // 3 days
     }

The amount of time that needs to be subtracted from each nominal renewal date is 3 days, i.e.,
max(min(345600, 259200), 345600 * .5).

The notBefore and notAfter of each short-term certiﬁcate are:

notBefore

notAfter

2019-01-10T00:00:00Z

2019-01-14T00:00:00Z

2019-01-11T00:00:00Z

2019-01-18T00:00:00Z

2019-01-15T00:00:00Z

2019-01-20T00:00:00Z

Table 1

The value of the notBefore is also the time at which the client should expect the new certiﬁcate to
be available from the star-certiﬁcate endpoint.

4.  Operational Considerations

4.1.  The Meaning of "Short Term" and the Impact of Skewed Clocks

"Short Term" is a relative concept; therefore, trying to deﬁne a cutoﬀ point that works in all cases
would be a useless exercise. In practice, the expected lifetime of a STAR certiﬁcate will be
counted in minutes, hours, or days, depending on diﬀerent factors: the underlying requirements
for revocation, how much clock synchronization is expected among relying parties and the
issuing CA, etc.

Nevertheless, this section attempts to provide reasonable suggestions for the Web use case,
informed by current operational and research experience.

[ACER]

 ﬁnd that one of the main causes of "HTTPS error" warnings in browsers is

Acer et al.
misconﬁgured client clocks. In particular, they observe that roughly 95% of the "severe" clock
skews -- the 6.7% of clock-related breakage reports that account for clients that are more than 24
hours behind -- happen to be within 6-7 days.

In order to avoid these spurious warnings about a not yet valid server certiﬁcate, site owners
could use the auto-renewal lifetime-adjust attribute to control the eﬀective lifetime of their Web-
facing certiﬁcates. The exact number depends on the percentage of the "clock-skewed"
population that the site owner expects to protect -- 5 days cover 97.3%, 7 days cover 99.6% -- as
well as the nominal auto-renewal lifetime of the STAR Order. Note that exact choice is also likely

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

to depend on the kinds of client that are prevalent for a given site or app -- for example, Android
and Mac OS clients are known to behave better than Windows clients. These considerations are
clearly out of scope of this document.

[RFC7633]

In terms of security, STAR certiﬁcates and certiﬁcates with the Online Certiﬁcate Status Protocol
(OCSP) "must-staple" ﬂag asserted
certiﬁcate's and the OCSP response's lifetimes are the same. (Here, "must-staple" refers to a
certiﬁcate carrying a TLS feature extension with the "status_request" extension identiﬁer
[RFC6066]
RECOMMENDED
(excluding any adjustment to account for clock skews) no longer than 4 days.

 that a STAR certiﬁcate that is used on the Web has an "eﬀective" lifetime

.) Given OCSP responses can be cached, on average, for 4 days

 can be considered roughly equivalent if the STAR

[STARK]

, it is

4.2.  Impact on Certiﬁcate Transparency (CT) Logs

Even in the highly unlikely case STAR becomes the only certiﬁcate issuance model, discussion
with the IETF TRANS Working Group and implementers of Certiﬁcate Transparency (CT) logs
suggests that existing CT Log server implementations are capable of sustaining the resulting 100-
fold increase in ingestion rate. Additionally, such a future higher load could be managed with a
variety of techniques (e.g., sharding by modulo of certiﬁcate hash, using "smart" load-balancing
CT proxies, etc.). With regards to the increase in the log size, current CT log growth is already
being managed with schemes like Chrome's Log Policy
, which allow Operators to
deﬁne their log life cycle, as well as allowing the CAs, User Agents, Monitors, and any other
interested entities to build in support for that life cycle ahead of time.

[OBRIEN]

4.3.  HTTP Caching and Dependability

When using authenticated POST-as-GET, the HTTPS endpoint from where the STAR certiﬁcate is
fetched can't be easily replicated by an on-path HTTP cache. Reducing the caching properties of
the protocol makes STAR clients increasingly dependent on the ACME server availability. This
might be problematic given the relatively high rate of client-server interactions in a STAR
ecosystem, especially when multiple endpoints (e.g., a high number of CDN edge nodes) end up
requesting the same certiﬁcate. Clients and servers should consider using the mechanism
described in Section 3.4 to mitigate the risk.

When using unauthenticated GET to fetch the STAR certiﬁcate, the server
appropriate cache directives to set the freshness lifetime of the response (
[RFC7234]
lifetime is due to expire.

) such that on-path caches will consider it stale before or at the time its eﬀective

 use the
SHALL
Section 5.2 of

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  New Registries

Per this document, IANA has created the following new registries:

•

ACME Order Auto-Renewal Fields (Section 5.4)

•

ACME Directory Metadata Auto-Renewal Fields (Section 5.6)

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

These registries are administered under a Speciﬁcation Required policy

[RFC8126]
.

5.2.  New Error Types

Per this document, IANA has added the following entries to the "ACME Error Types" registry:

Type

Description

autoRenewalCanceled

autoRenewalExpired

autoRenewalCancellationInvalid

The short-term certiﬁcate is no longer
available because the auto-renewal
Order has been explicitly canceled by
the IdO

The short-term certiﬁcate is no longer
available because the auto-renewal
Order has expired

A request to cancel an auto-renewal
Order that is not in state "valid" has
been received

Reference

RFC 8739

RFC 8739

RFC 8739

autoRenewalRevocationNotSupported

A request to revoke an auto-renewal
Order has been received

RFC 8739

Table 2

5.3.  New Fields in Order Objects

Per this document, IANA has added the following entries to the "ACME Order Object Fields"
registry:

Field Name

Field Type

Conﬁgurable

Reference

auto-renewal

object

star-certiﬁcate

string

true

false

RFC 8739

RFC 8739

Table 3

5.4.  Fields in the "auto-renewal" Object within an Order Object

The "ACME Order Auto-Renewal Fields" registry lists ﬁeld names that are deﬁned for use in the
JSON object included in the "auto-renewal" ﬁeld of an ACME order object.

Template:

•

Field name: The string to be used as a ﬁeld name in the JSON object

•

Field type: The type of value to be provided, e.g., string, boolean, array of string

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

•

Conﬁgurable: Boolean indicating whether the server should accept values provided by the
client

•

Reference: Where this ﬁeld is deﬁned

Initial contents: The ﬁelds and descriptions deﬁned in Section 3.1.1.

Field Name

Field Type

Conﬁgurable

Reference

start-date

end-date

lifetime

string

string

integer

lifetime-adjust

integer

allow-certiﬁcate-get

boolean

Table 4

true

true

true

true

true

RFC 8739

RFC 8739

RFC 8739

RFC 8739

RFC 8739

5.5.  New Fields in the "meta" Object within a Directory Object

Per this document, IANA has added the following entry to the "ACME Directory Metadata Fields":

Field Name

Field Type

Reference

auto-renewal

object

RFC 8739

Table 5

5.6.  Fields in the "auto-renewal" Object within a Directory Metadata Object

The "ACME Directory Metadata Auto-Renewal Fields" registry lists ﬁeld names that are deﬁned
for use in the JSON object included in the "auto-renewal" ﬁeld of an ACME directory "meta"
object.

Template:

•

Field name: The string to be used as a ﬁeld name in the JSON object

•

Field type: The type of value to be provided, e.g., string, boolean, array of string

•

Reference: Where this ﬁeld is deﬁned

Initial contents: The ﬁelds and descriptions deﬁned in Section 3.2.

Field Name

Field Type

Reference

min-lifetime

integer

RFC 8739

max-duration

integer

RFC 8739

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

Field Name

Field Type

Reference

allow-certiﬁcate-get

boolean

RFC 8739

Table 6

5.7.  Cert-Not-Before and Cert-Not-After HTTP Headers

The "Message Headers" registry has been updated with the following additional values:

Header Field Name

Protocol

Status

Reference

Cert-Not-Before

Cert-Not-After

http

http

standard

RFC 8739, Section 3.3

standard

RFC 8739, Section 3.3

Table 7

6.  Security Considerations

6.1.  No Revocation

STAR certiﬁcates eliminate an important security feature of PKI, which is the ability to revoke
certiﬁcates. Revocation allows the administrator to limit the damage done by a rogue node or an
adversary who has control of the private key. With STAR certiﬁcates, expiration replaces
revocation so there is potential for lack of timeliness in the revocation taking eﬀect. To that end,
see also the discussion on clock skew in Section 4.1.

It should be noted that revocation also has timeliness issues because both Certiﬁcate Revocation
Lists (CRLs) and OCSP responses have nextUpdate ﬁelds that tell relying parties (RPs) how long
they should trust this revocation data. These ﬁelds are typically set to hours, days, or even weeks
in the future. Any revocation that happens before the time in nextUpdate goes unnoticed by the
RP.

One situation where the lack of explicit revocation could create a security risk to the IdO is when
the Order is created with a start-date of some appreciable amount of time in the future. Recall
that when authorizations have been fulﬁlled, the Order moves to the "valid" state and the star-
certiﬁcate endpoint is populated with the ﬁrst cert (Figure 4). So, if an attacker manages to get
hold of the private key as well as the ﬁrst (post-dated) certiﬁcate, there is a time window in the
future when they will be able to successfully impersonate the IdO. Note that cancellation is
pointless in this case. In order to mitigate the described threat, it is
 that IdO
place their Orders at a time that is close to the Order's start-date.

RECOMMENDED

More discussion of the security of STAR certiﬁcates is available in

.
[TOPALOVIC]

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

6.2.  Denial-of-Service Considerations

STAR adds a new attack vector that increases the threat of denial-of-service attacks, caused by
the change to the CA's behavior. Each STAR request ampliﬁes the resource demands upon the CA,
where one Order produces not one but potentially dozens or hundreds of certiﬁcates, depending
on the auto-renewal "lifetime" parameter. An attacker can use this property to aggressively
reduce the auto-renewal "lifetime" (e.g., 1 second) jointly with other ACME attack vectors
identiﬁed in
. Other collateral impact is related to the certiﬁcate endpoint
resource where the client can retrieve the certiﬁcates periodically. If this resource is external to
the CA (e.g., a hosted web server), the previous attack will be reﬂected to that resource.

Section 10 of [RFC8555]

Mitigation recommendations from ACME still apply, but some of them need to be adjusted. For
example, applying rate limiting to the initial request, due to the nature of the auto-renewal
behavior, cannot solve the above problem. The CA server needs complementary mitigation, and
speciﬁcally, it
can set a rate limit for internal certiﬁcate generation processes. Note that this limit has to take
account of already scheduled renewal issuances as well as new incoming requests.

 enforce a minimum value on auto-renewal "lifetime". Alternatively, the CA

SHOULD

6.3.  Privacy Considerations

In order to avoid correlation of certiﬁcates by account, if unauthenticated GET is negotiated
(Section 3.4), the recommendation in
 regarding the choice of URL
structure applies, i.e., servers
SHOULD
way, for example, using capability URLs

Section 10.5 of [RFC8555]
 choose URLs of certiﬁcate resources in a non-guessable
.

[W3C.CAPABILITY-URLS]

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Klyne, G. and C. Newman "Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps" RFC
,
3339 DOI 10.17487/RFC3339
rfc3339>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2002,

.

,

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Semantics and Content" RFC 7231 DOI 10.17487/RFC7231
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7231>

, June 2014,

,
,
.

<https://

,

Fielding, R., Ed., Nottingham, M., Ed., and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer
,
Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Caching" RFC 7234 DOI 10.17487/RFC7234
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7234>

, June 2014,

.

,

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC3339]

[RFC7231]

[RFC7234]

[RFC7807]

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

Nottingham, M. and E. Wilde "Problem Details for HTTP APIs" RFC 7807 DOI
10.17487/RFC7807

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7807>
.

, March 2016,

,

,

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8555]

Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

,

.

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Barnes, R., Hoﬀman-Andrews, J., McCarney, D., and J. Kasten "Automatic
Certiﬁcate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8555 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8555

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8555>

, March 2019,

,

,

.

,

7.2.  Informative References

[ACER]

[OBRIEN]

[RFC6066]

[RFC7633]

Acer, M.E., Stark, E., Felt, A.P., Fahl, S., Bhargava, R., Dev, B., Braithwaite, M.,
Sleevi, R., and P. Tabriz "Where the Wild Warnings Are: Root Causes of Chrome
HTTPS Certiﬁcate Errors" DOI 10.1145/3133956.3134007
<https://
acmccs.github.io/papers/p1407-acerA.pdf>

, October 2017,

.

,

,

O'Brien, D. and R. Sleevi "Chromium Certiﬁcate Transparency Policy"
2017,

<https://github.com/chromium/ct-policy>

.

,

, April

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
,
,
Deﬁnitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
editor.org/info/rfc6066>

, January 2011,

.

<https://www.rfc-

,
Hallam-Baker, P. "X.509v3 Transport Layer Security (TLS) Feature Extension"
RFC 7633 DOI 10.17487/RFC7633
rfc7633>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2015,

,
.

,

[SHORT-TERM-CERTS]

Nir, Y., Fossati, T., Sheﬀer, Y., and T. Eckert "Considerations For Using
,

Short Term Certiﬁcates" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-nir-saag-star-01
5 March 2018,
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-nir-saag-star-01>

,

.

,

,

[STAR-DELEGATION]

Sheﬀer, Y., Lopez, D., Pastor, A., and T. Fossati "An ACME Proﬁle for
,
Generating Delegated STAR Certiﬁcates" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
ietf-acme-star-delegation-03
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-
acme-star-delegation-03>

, 8 March 2020,

.

,

,

[STARK]

[TOPALOVIC]

Stark, E., Huang, L.S., Israni, D., Jackson, C., and D. Boneh "The case for
, February 2012,
prefetching and prevalidating TLS server certiﬁcates"
crypto.stanford.edu/~dabo/pubs/abstracts/ssl-prefetch.html>

.

,

<https://

Topalovic, E., Saeta, B., Huang, L.S., Jackson, C., and D. Boneh "Towards Short-
Lived Certiﬁcates"
<https://www.ieee-security.org/TC/W2SP/2012/papers/
w2sp12-ﬁnal9.pdf>

, 2012,
.

,

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8739

Support for ACME STAR

March 2020

[W3C.CAPABILITY-URLS]

Tennison, J. "Good Practices for Capability URLs" W3C First Public

,

,

,
, February 2014,

Working Draft Latest version available at <https://www.w3.org/TR/capability-
urls/>
urls-20140218>

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2014/WD-capability-

.

Acknowledgments

This work is partially supported by the European Commission under Horizon 2020 grant
agreement no. 688421 Measurement and Architecture for a Middleboxed Internet (MAMI). This
support does not imply endorsement.

Ben Kaduk Richard Barnes Roman Danyliw Jon Peterson Eric Rescorla Ryan Sleevi

,

,

Thanks to
Sean Turner Alexey Melnikov Adam Roach Martin Thomson
,
comments and discussions that have shaped this document.

,

,

,

,

,

, and

Mehmet Ersue

,
 for helpful

Authors' Addresses

Yaron Sheﬀer
Intuit
Email:

 yaronf.ietf@gmail.com

Diego Lopez
Telefonica I+D
Email:

 diego.r.lopez@telefonica.com

Oscar Gonzalez de Dios
Telefonica I+D
Email:

 oscar.gonzalezdedios@telefonica.com

Antonio Agustin Pastor Perales
Telefonica I+D
Email:

 antonio.pastorperales@telefonica.com

Thomas Fossati
ARM
Email:

 thomas.fossati@arm.com

Sheffer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

