Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8853
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
B. Burman
Ericsson

M. Westerlund
Ericsson

S. Nandakumar
Cisco

M. Zanaty
Cisco

RFC 8853
Using Simulcast in Session Description Protocol
(SDP) and RTP Sessions

Abstract

In some application scenarios, it may be desirable to send multiple diﬀerently encoded versions
of the same media source in diﬀerent RTP streams. This is called simulcast. This document
describes how to accomplish simulcast in RTP and how to signal it in the Session Description
Protocol (SDP). The described solution uses an RTP/RTCP identiﬁcation method to identify RTP
streams belonging to the same media source and makes an extension to SDP to indicate that
those RTP streams are diﬀerent simulcast formats of that media source. The SDP extension
consists of a new media-level SDP attribute that expresses capability to send and/or receive
simulcast RTP streams.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8853

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Deﬁnitions

2.1.  Terminology

2.2.  Requirements Language

3.  Use Cases

3.1.  Reaching a Diverse Set of Receivers

3.2.  Application-Speciﬁc Media Source Handling

3.3.  Receiver Media-Source Preferences

4.  Overview

5.  Detailed Description

5.1.  Simulcast Attribute

5.2.  Simulcast Capability

5.3.  Oﬀer/Answer Use

5.3.1.  Generating the Initial SDP Oﬀer

5.3.2.  Creating the SDP Answer

5.3.3.  Oﬀerer Processing the SDP Answer

5.3.4.  Modifying the Session

5.4.  Use with Declarative SDP

5.5.  Relating Simulcast Streams

5.6.  Signaling Examples

5.6.1.  Single-Source Client

5.6.2.  Multisource Client

5.6.3.  Simulcast and Redundancy

6.  RTP Aspects

6.1.  Outgoing from Endpoint with Media Source

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

6.2.  RTP Middlebox to Receiver

6.2.1.  Media-Switching Mixer

6.2.2.  Selective Forwarding Middlebox

6.3.  RTP Middlebox to RTP Middlebox

7.  Network Aspects

7.1.  Bitrate Adaptation

8.  Limitation

9.  IANA Considerations

10. Security Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Requirements

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Most of today's multiparty video-conference solutions make use of centralized servers to reduce
the bandwidth and CPU consumption in the endpoints. Those servers receive RTP streams from
each participant and send some suitable set of possibly modiﬁed RTP streams to the rest of the
participants, which usually have heterogeneous capabilities (screen size, CPU, bandwidth, codec,
etc.). One of the biggest issues is how to perform RTP stream adaptation to diﬀerent participants'
constraints with the minimum possible impact on both video quality and server performance.

Simulcast is deﬁned in this memo as the act of simultaneously sending multiple diﬀerent
encoded streams of the same media source -- e.g., the same video source encoded with diﬀerent
video-encoder types or image resolutions. This can be done in several ways and for diﬀerent
purposes. This document focuses on the case where it is desirable to provide a media source as
multiple encoded streams over
can provide the wanted functionality by selecting which RTP stream(s) to forward to other
participants in the session, and more speciﬁcally how the identiﬁcation and grouping of the
involved RTP streams are done.

 towards an intermediary so that the intermediary

RTP [RFC3550]

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

The intended scope of the deﬁned mechanism is to support negotiation and usage of simulcast
when using SDP oﬀer/answer and media transport over RTP. The media transport topologies
considered are point-to-point RTP sessions, as well as centralized multiparty RTP sessions, where
a media sender will provide the simulcasted streams to an RTP middlebox or endpoint, and
middleboxes may further distribute the simulcast streams to other middleboxes or endpoints.
Simulcast could be used point to point between middleboxes as part of a distributed multiparty
scenario. Usage of multicast or broadcast transport is out of scope and left for future extensions.

This document describes a few scenarios that motivate the use of simulcast and also deﬁnes the
needed RTP/RTCP and SDP signaling for it.

2.  Deﬁnitions

2.1.  Terminology

This document makes use of the terminology deﬁned in
Mechanisms for Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) Sources" [RFC7656]
[RFC7667]

. The following terms are especially noted or here deﬁned:

"A Taxonomy of Semantics and

 and

"RTP Topologies"

RTP mixer:

An RTP middlebox, in the wide sense of the term, encompassing Sections 3.6 to 3.9

of

[RFC7667]

.

RTP session:

An association among a group of participants communicating with RTP, as deﬁned

in

[RFC3550]

 and amended by

[RFC7656]

.

RTP stream:

A stream of RTP packets containing media data, as deﬁned in

[RFC7656]

.

RTP switch:

A common short term for the terms "switching RTP mixer", "source projecting

middlebox", and "video switching Multipoint Control Unit (MCU)", as discussed in

[RFC7667]

.

Simulcast stream:

One encoded stream or dependent stream from a set of concurrently

transmitted encoded streams and optional dependent streams, all sharing a common media
source, as deﬁned in
single media source sent concurrently as separate RTP streams.

. For example, HD and thumbnail video simulcast versions of a

[RFC7656]

Simulcast format:

Diﬀerent formats of a simulcast stream serve the same purpose as

alternative RTP payload types in nonsimulcast SDP: to allow multiple alternative media
formats for a given RTP stream. As for multiple RTP payload types on the "m=" line in
answer [RFC3264]
stream at a given point in time, but not more than one (based on RTP timestamp). What
format is used can change dynamically from one RTP packet to another.

oﬀer/
, any one of the negotiated alternative formats can be used in a single RTP

2.2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

3.  Use Cases

The use cases of simulcast described in this document relate to a multiparty communication
session where one or more central nodes are used to adapt the view of the communication
session towards individual participants and facilitate the media transport between participants.
Thus, these cases target the RTP mixer type of topology.

There are two principal approaches for an RTP mixer to provide this adapted view of the
communication session to each receiving participant:

•

Transcoding (decoding and re-encoding) received RTP streams with characteristics adapted
to each receiving participant. This often includes mixing or composition of media sources
from multiple participants into a mixed media source originated by the RTP mixer. The main
advantage of this approach is that it achieves close-to-optimal adaptation to individual
receiving participants. The main disadvantages are that it can be very computationally
expensive to the RTP mixer, typically degrades media Quality of Experience (QoE) such as
creating end-to-end delay for the receiving participants, and requires the RTP mixer to have
access to media content.

•

Switching a subset of all received RTP streams or substreams to each receiving participant,
where the used subset is typically speciﬁc to each receiving participant. The main
advantages of this approach are that it is computationally cheap to the RTP mixer, has very
limited impact on media QoE, and does not require the RTP mixer to have (full) access to
media content. The main disadvantage is that it can be diﬃcult to combine a subset of
received RTP streams into a perfect ﬁt for the resource situation of a receiving participant. It
is also a disadvantage that sending multiple RTP streams consumes more network resources
from the sending participant to the RTP mixer.

The use of simulcast relates to the latter approach, where it is more important to reduce the load
on the RTP mixer and/or minimize QoE impact than to achieve an optimal adaptation of resource
usage.

3.1.  Reaching a Diverse Set of Receivers

The media sources provided by a sending participant potentially need to reach several receiving
participants that diﬀer in terms of available resources. The receiver resources that typically
diﬀer include, but are not limited to:

Codec:

This includes codec type (such as RTP payload format MIME type) and can include codec

conﬁguration. A couple of codec resources that diﬀer only in codec conﬁguration will be
"diﬀerent" if they are somehow not "compatible", such as if they diﬀer in video codec proﬁle
or the transport packetization conﬁguration.

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

Sampling:

This relates to how the media source is sampled, in spatial as well as temporal

domain. For video streams, spatial sampling aﬀects image resolution, and temporal sampling
aﬀects video frame rate. For audio, spatial sampling relates to the number of audio channels,
and temporal sampling aﬀects audio bandwidth. This may be used to suit diﬀerent rendering
capabilities or needs at the receiving endpoints.

Bitrate:

This relates to the number of bits sent per second to transmit the media source as an

RTP stream, which typically also aﬀects the QoE for the receiving user.

Letting the sending participant create a simulcast of a few diﬀerently conﬁgured RTP streams
per media source can be a good trade-oﬀ when using an RTP switch as middlebox, instead of
sending a single RTP stream and using an RTP mixer to create individual transcodings to each
receiving participant.

This requires that the receiving participants can be categorized in terms of available resources
and that the sending participant can choose a matching conﬁguration for a single RTP stream per
category and media source. For example, a set of receiving participants diﬀer only in screen
resolution; some are able to display video with at most 360p resolution, and some support 720p
resolution. A sending participant can then reach all receivers with best possible resolution by
creating a simulcast of RTP streams with 360p and 720p resolution for each sent video media
source.

The maximum number of simulcasted RTP streams that can be sent is mainly limited by the
amount of processing and uplink network resources available to the sending participant.

3.2.  Application-Speciﬁc Media Source Handling

The application logic that controls the communication session may include special handling of
some media sources. It is, for example, commonly the case that the media from a sending
participant is not sent back to itself.

It is also common that a currently active speaker participant is shown in larger size or higher
quality than other participants (the sampling or bitrate aspects of Section 3.1) in a receiving
client. Many conferencing systems do not send the active speaker's media back to the sender
itself, which means there is some other participant's media that instead is forwarded to the
active speaker -- typically the previous active speaker. This way, the previously active speaker is
needed both in larger size (to current active speaker) and in small size (to the rest of the
participants), which can be solved with a simulcast from the previously active speaker to the RTP
switch.

3.3.  Receiver Media-Source Preferences

The application logic that controls the communication session may allow receiving participants
to state preferences on the characteristics of the RTP stream they like to receive, for example in
terms of the aspects listed in Section 3.1. Sending a simulcast of RTP streams is one way of
accommodating receivers with conﬂicting or otherwise incompatible preferences.

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

4.  Overview

 signaling that covers the above described simulcast use cases
This memo deﬁnes
and functionalities. A number of requirements for such signaling are elaborated in Appendix A.

SDP [RFC4566]

The Restriction Identiﬁer (RID) mechanism, as deﬁned in
answerer to specify a number of diﬀerent RTP stream restrictions for a rid-id by using the
"a=rid" line. Examples of such restrictions are maximum bitrate, maximum spatial video
resolution (width and height), maximum video frame rate, etc. Each rid-id may also be restricted
to use only a subset of the RTP payload types in the associated SDP media description. Those RTP
payload types can have their own conﬁgurations and parameters aﬀecting what can be sent or
received, using the "a=fmtp" line as well as other SDP attributes.

, enables an SDP oﬀerer or

[RFC8851]

A new SDP media-level attribute, "a=simulcast", is deﬁned. The attribute describes,
independently for "send" and "receive" directions, the number of simulcast RTP streams as well
as potential alternative formats for each simulcast RTP stream. Each simulcast RTP stream,
including alternatives, is identiﬁed using the RID identiﬁer (rid-id), deﬁned in

.
[RFC8851]

a=simulcast:send 1;2,3 recv 4

If this line is included in an SDP oﬀer, the "send" part indicates the oﬀerer's capability and
proposal to send two simulcast RTP streams. Each simulcast stream is described by one or more
RTP stream identiﬁers (rid-ids), and each group of rid-ids for a simulcast stream is separated by a
semicolon (";"). When a simulcast stream has multiple rid-ids that are separated by a comma (","),
they describe alternative representations for that particular simulcast RTP stream. Thus, the
"send" part shown above is interpreted as an intention to send two simulcast RTP streams. The
ﬁrst simulcast RTP stream is identiﬁed and restricted according to rid-id 1. The second simulcast
RTP stream can be sent as two alternatives, identiﬁed and restricted according to rid-ids 2 and 3.
The "recv" part of the line shown here indicates that the oﬀerer desires to receive a single RTP
stream (no simulcast) according to rid-id 4.

A more complete example SDP-oﬀer media description is provided in Figure 1.

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

m=video 49300 RTP/AVP 97 98 99
a=rtpmap:97 H264/90000
a=rtpmap:98 H264/90000
a=rtpmap:99 VP8/90000
a=fmtp:97 profile-level-id=42c01f;max-fs=3600;max-mbps=108000
a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=42c00b;max-fs=240;max-mbps=3600
a=fmtp:99 max-fs=240; max-fr=30
a=rid:1 send pt=97;max-width=1280;max-height=720
a=rid:2 send pt=98;max-width=320;max-height=180
a=rid:3 send pt=99;max-width=320;max-height=180
a=rid:4 recv pt=97
a=simulcast:send 1;2,3 recv 4
a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:rtp-stream-id

Figure 1: Example Simulcast Media Description in Oﬀer

The SDP media description in Figure 1 can be interpreted at a high level to say that the oﬀerer is
capable of sending two simulcast RTP streams: one H.264 encoded stream in up to 720p
resolution, and one additional stream encoded as either H.264 or VP8 with a maximum
resolution of 320x180 pixels. The oﬀerer can receive one H.264 stream with maximum 720p
resolution.

The receiver of this SDP oﬀer can generate an SDP answer that indicates what it accepts. It uses
the "a=simulcast" attribute to indicate simulcast capability and specify what simulcast RTP
streams and alternatives to receive and/or send. An example of such an answering "a=simulcast"
attribute, corresponding to the above oﬀer, is:

a=simulcast:recv 1;2 send 4

With this SDP answer, the answerer indicates in the "recv" part that it wants to receive the two
simulcast RTP streams. It has removed an alternative that it doesn't support (rid-id 3). The "send"
part conﬁrms to the oﬀerer that it will receive one stream for this media source according to rid-
id 4. The corresponding, more complete example SDP answer media description could look like
Figure 2.

m=video 49674 RTP/AVP 97 98
a=rtpmap:97 H264/90000
a=rtpmap:98 H264/90000
a=fmtp:97 profile-level-id=42c01f;max-fs=3600;max-mbps=108000
a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=42c00b;max-fs=240;max-mbps=3600
a=rid:1 recv pt=97;max-width=1280;max-height=720
a=rid:2 recv pt=98;max-width=320;max-height=180
a=rid:4 send pt=97
a=simulcast:recv 1;2 send 4
a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:rtp-stream-id

Figure 2: Example Simulcast Media Description in Answer

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

It is assumed that a single SDP media description is used to describe a single media source. This
is aligned with the concepts deﬁned in
 and will work in a WebRTC context, both with
and without BUNDLE grouping of media descriptions

[RFC8843]
.

[RFC7656]

To summarize, the "a=simulcast" line describes "send"- and "receive"-direction simulcast streams
separately. Each direction can in turn describe one or more simulcast streams, separated by
semicolons. The identiﬁers describing simulcast streams on the "a=simulcast" line are rid-ids, as
deﬁned by "a=rid" lines in
. Each simulcast stream can be oﬀered as a list of alternative
rid-ids, with each alternative separated by a comma as shown in the example oﬀer in Figure 1. A
detailed speciﬁcation can be found in Section 5, and more detailed examples are outlined in
Section 5.6.

[RFC8851]

5.  Detailed Description

This section provides further details to the overview in Section 4. First, formal syntax is
"Relating
(Section 5.1)
Simulcast Streams" (Section 5.5)
section concludes with a number of examples.

, followed by the rest of the SDP attribute deﬁnition in Section 5.2.

 provides the deﬁnition of the RTP/RTCP mechanisms used. The

provided

5.1.  Simulcast Attribute

This document deﬁnes a new SDP media-level "a=simulcast" attribute, with value according to
the syntax in Figure 3, which uses
in ABNF" [RFC7405]

"Case-Sensitive String Support

ABNF [RFC5234]

 and its update,

:

sc-value     = ( sc-send [SP sc-recv] ) / ( sc-recv [SP sc-send] )
sc-send      = %s"send" SP sc-str-list
sc-recv      = %s"recv" SP sc-str-list
sc-str-list  = sc-alt-list *( ";" sc-alt-list )
sc-alt-list  = sc-id *( "," sc-id )
sc-id-paused = "~"
sc-id        = [sc-id-paused] rid-id
; SP defined in [RFC5234]
; rid-id defined in [RFC8851]

Figure 3: ABNF for Simulcast Value

The "a=simulcast" attribute has a parameter in the form of one or two simulcast stream
descriptions, each consisting of a direction ("send" or "recv"), followed by a list of one or more
simulcast streams. Each simulcast stream consists of one or more alternative simulcast formats.
Each simulcast format is identiﬁed by a simulcast stream identiﬁer (rid-id). The rid-id
the form of an RTP stream identiﬁer, as described by
.
[RFC8851]

"RTP Payload Format Restrictions"

MUST

 have

In the list of simulcast streams, each simulcast stream is separated by a semicolon (";"). Each
simulcast stream can, in turn, be oﬀered in one or more alternative formats, represented by rid-
ids, separated by commas (","). Each rid-id can also be speciﬁed as initially

,
paused [RFC7728]

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

indicated by prepending a "~" to the rid-id. The reason to allow separate initial pause states for
each rid-id is that pause capability can be speciﬁed individually for each RTP payload type
referenced by a rid-id. Since pause capability speciﬁed via the "a=rtcp-fb" attribute applies only
to speciﬁed payload types, and a rid-id speciﬁed by "a=rid" can refer to multiple diﬀerent
payload types, it is unfeasible to pause streams with rid-id where any of the related RTP payload
type(s) do not have pause capability.

5.2.  Simulcast Capability

. The use of this attribute at the session level is undeﬁned. Implementations of this

Simulcast capability is expressed through a new media-level
5.1)
speciﬁcation
level. Extensions to this speciﬁcation may deﬁne such session-level usage. Each SDP media
description

 contain at most one "a=simulcast" line.

 use it at the session level and

 ignore it if received at the session

MUST NOT

SDP attribute, "a=simulcast" (Section

MUST

MUST

There are separate and independent sets of simulcast streams in the "send" and "receive"
directions. When listing multiple directions, each direction
the same line.

MUST NOT

 occur more than once on

Simulcast streams using undeﬁned rid-ids
RTP stream receiver. The direction for a rid-id
the corresponding RTP stream identiﬁer on the "a=rid" line.

MUST NOT

MUST

 be used as valid simulcast streams by an
 be aligned with the direction speciﬁed for

The listed number of simulcast streams for a direction sets a limit to the number of supported
simulcast streams in that direction. The order of the listed simulcast streams in the "send"
direction suggests a proposed order of preference, in decreasing order: the rid-id listed ﬁrst is the
most preferred, and subsequent streams have progressively lower preference. The order of the
listed rid-ids in the "recv" direction expresses which simulcast streams are preferred, with the
leftmost being most preferred. This can be of importance if the number of actually sent simulcast
streams has to be reduced for some reason.

rid-ids that have explicit
media description)

MAY

 be used.

dependencies [RFC5583] [RFC8851]

 to other rid-ids (even in the same

Use of more than a single, alternative simulcast format for a simulcast stream
as part of the attribute parameters by expressing the simulcast stream as a comma-separated list
of alternative rid-ids. The order of the rid-id alternatives within a simulcast stream is signiﬁcant;
the rid-id alternatives are listed from (left) most preferred to (right) least preferred. For the use
of simulcast, this overrides the normal codec preference as expressed by format-type ordering
on the "m=" line, using regular SDP rules. This is to enable a separation of general codec
preferences and simulcast-stream conﬁguration preferences. However, the choice of which
alternative to use per simulcast stream is independent, and there is currently no mechanism for
the oﬀerer to force the answerer to choose the same alternative for multiple simulcast streams.

 be speciﬁed

MAY

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

A simulcast stream can use a codec deﬁned such that the same RTP synchronization source
(SSRC) can change RTP payload type multiple times during a session, possibly even on a per-
packet basis. A typical example is a speech codec that makes use of formats for
dual-tone multifrequency (DTMF) [RFC4733]
[RFC3389]

 and/or

Comfort Noise

.

 is supported, any rid-id

RTP stream pause/resume [RFC7728]

If
character to indicate that the corresponding simulcast stream is paused already from the start of
the RTP session. In this case, support for RTP stream pause/resume
 also be included under
the same "m=" line where "a=simulcast" is included. All RTP payload types related to such an
initially paused simulcast stream
by

 be listed in the SDP as pause/resume capable as speciﬁed

 -- e.g., by using the "*" wildcard format for "a=rtcp-fb".

 be preﬁxed by a "~"

[RFC7728]

MUST

MUST

MAY

 be considered equivalent to an unsolicited locally paused stream and handled accordingly.

An initially paused simulcast stream in the "send" direction for the endpoint sending the SDP
MUST
Initially paused simulcast streams are resumed as described by the RTP pause/resume
speciﬁcation. An RTP stream receiver that wishes to resume an unsolicited locally paused stream
needs to know the SSRC of that stream. The SSRC of an initially paused simulcast stream can be
obtained from an RTP stream sender RTCP Sender Report (SR) or Receiver Report (RR) that
includes both the desired SSRC as initial SSRC in the source description (SDES) chunk, optionally
a
value in an

 (if used and if rid-ids are not unique across "m=" lines), and the rid-id

RtpStreamId RTCP SDES item [RFC8852]

MID SDES item [RFC8843]

.

SHOULD

 put its RTP stream in an

If the endpoint sending the SDP includes a "recv"-direction simulcast stream that is initially
paused, then the remote RTP sender receiving the SDP
unsolicited locally paused state. The simulcast stream sender does not put the stream in the
locally paused state if there are other RTP stream receivers in the session that do not mark the
simulcast stream as initially paused. However, in centralized conferencing, the RTP sender
usually does not see the SDP signaling from RTP receivers and cannot make this determination.
The reason for requiring that an initially paused "recv" stream be considered locally paused by
the remote RTP sender instead of making it equivalent to implicitly sending a pause request is
that the pausing RTP sender cannot know which receiving SSRC owns the restriction when
Temporary Maximum Media Stream Bit Rate Request (TMMBR) and Temporary Maximum Media
Stream Bit Rate Notiﬁcation (TMMBN) are used for pause/resume signaling (
[RFC7728]
known.

); this is because the RTP receiver's SSRC in the "send" direction is sometimes not yet

Section 5.6 of

Use of the redundant audio data format
protection purposes, but it is not considered conﬂicting with the mechanisms described in this
memo and
the carried formats,

 therefore be used as any other format. In this case, the "red" format, rather than

 be the one to list as a simulcast stream on the "a=simulcast" line.

 could be seen as a form of simulcast for loss-

[RFC2198]

SHOULD

MAY

The media formats and corresponding characteristics of simulcast streams
such that they are diﬀerent -- e.g., as diﬀerent SDP formats with diﬀering "a=rtpmap" and/or
"a=fmtp" lines, or as diﬀerently deﬁned RTP payload format restrictions. If this diﬀerence is not
 instead of simulcast.
 to use RTP duplication procedures
required, it is

RECOMMENDED

 be chosen

[RFC7104]

SHOULD

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

To avoid complications in implementations, a single rid-id
"a=simulcast" line. Note that this does not eliminate use of simulcast as an RTP duplication
mechanism, since it is possible to deﬁne multiple diﬀerent rid-ids that are eﬀectively equivalent.

 occur more than once per

MUST NOT

5.3.  Oﬀer/Answer Use

Note:

The inclusion of "a=simulcast" or the use of simulcast does not change any of the
interpretation or Oﬀer/Answer procedures for other SDP attributes, such as "a=fmtp" or
"a=rid".

5.3.1.  Generating the Initial SDP Oﬀer

An oﬀerer wanting to use simulcast for a media description
attribute in that media description in the oﬀer. An oﬀerer listing a set of receive simulcast
streams and/or alternative formats as rid-ids in the oﬀer
 be prepared to receive RTP
streams for any of those simulcast streams and/or alternative formats from the answerer.

 include one "a=simulcast"

SHALL

MUST

5.3.2.  Creating the SDP Answer

An answerer that does not understand the concept of simulcast will also not know the attribute
and will remove it in the SDP answer, as deﬁned in existing SDP oﬀer/answer procedures
[RFC3264]
. Since SDP session-level simulcast is undeﬁned in this memo, an answerer that
receives an oﬀer with the "a=simulcast" attribute on the SDP session level
answer. An answerer that understands the attribute but receives multiple "a=simulcast"
attributes in the same media description
 disable use of simulcast by removing all
SHALL
"a=simulcast" lines for that media description in the answer.

SHALL

 remove it in the

An answerer that does understand the attribute and wants to support simulcast in an indicated
direction
becomes "recv" and vice versa -- and include it in the answer.

 reverse directionality of the unidirectional direction parameters -- "send"

SHALL

MAY

An answerer that receives an oﬀer with simulcast containing an "a=simulcast" attribute listing
alternative rid-ids
 also choose to
 keep all the alternative rid-ids in the answer, but it
remove any nondesirable alternative rid-ids in the answer. The answerer
alternative rid-ids in the "send" direction in the answer that were not present in the oﬀer receive
direction. The answerer
alternatives and

 be prepared to receive any of the receive-direction rid-id
 send any of the "send"-direction alternatives that are part of the answer.

MUST NOT

 add any

MUST

MAY

MAY

An answerer that receives an oﬀer with simulcast that lists a number of simulcast streams
reduce the number of simulcast streams in the answer, but it

MAY
 add simulcast streams.

MUST NOT

An answerer that receives an oﬀer without RTP stream pause/resume capability
any simulcast streams as initially paused in the answer.

MUST NOT

 mark

An RTP stream answerer capable of pause/resume that receives an oﬀer with RTP stream pause/
resume capability
MAY
paused in the answer.

 mark any rid-ids that refer to pause/resume capable formats as initially

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

An answerer that receives indication in an oﬀer of a rid-id being initially paused
SHOULD
that rid-id as initially paused also in the answer, regardless of direction, unless it has good
reason for the rid-id not being initially paused. One reason to remove an initial pause in the
answer compared to the oﬀer could be, for example, that all "receive"-direction simulcast
streams for a media source the answerer accepts in the answer would otherwise be paused.

 mark

5.3.3.  Oﬀerer Processing the SDP Answer

An oﬀerer that receives an answer without "a=simulcast"
answerer. An oﬀerer that receives an answer with "a=simulcast" without any rid-id in a speciﬁed
direction

 use simulcast in that direction.

 use simulcast towards the

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

An oﬀerer that receives an answer where some rid-id alternatives are kept
receive any of the kept "send"-direction rid-id alternatives and
"receive"-direction rid-id alternatives.

MAY

MUST
 send any of the kept

 be prepared to

An oﬀerer that receives an answer where some of the rid-ids are removed compared to the oﬀer
 release the corresponding resources (codec, transport, etc) in its "receive" direction and
MAY

MUST NOT

 send any RTP packets corresponding to the removed rid-ids.

An oﬀerer that oﬀered some of its rid-ids as initially paused and receives an answer that does not
indicate RTP stream pause/resume capability

 initially pause any simulcast streams.

MUST NOT

An oﬀerer with RTP stream pause/resume capability that receives an answer where some rid-ids
are marked as initially paused
marked as initially paused also in the oﬀer, unless it has good reason for those RTP streams not
being initially paused. One such reason could be, for example, that the answerer would
otherwise initially not receive any media of that type at all.

 initially pause those RTP streams, even if they were

SHOULD

5.3.4.  Modifying the Session

Oﬀers inside an existing session follow the same rules as for initial SDP oﬀer, with these
additions:

1.

2.

rid-ids marked as initially paused in the oﬀerer's "send" direction
opinion of the current pause state at the time of creating the oﬀer. This is purely
informational, and RTP stream pause/resume signaling
SHALL

 take precedence in case of any conﬂict or ambiguity.

[RFC7728]

SHALL

 in the ongoing session

 reﬂect the oﬀerer's

rid-ids marked as initially paused in the oﬀerer's "receive" direction
oﬀer) reﬂect the oﬀerer's desired rid-id pause state. Except for the case where the oﬀerer
already paused the corresponding RTP stream through
signaling, this is identical to the conditions at an initial oﬀer.

RTP stream pause/resume [RFC7728]

 (as in an initial

SHALL

Creation of SDP answers and processing of SDP answers inside an existing session follow the
same rules as described above for initial SDP oﬀer/answer.

Session modiﬁcation restrictions in
also apply.

Section 6.5 of "RTP Payload Format Restrictions" [RFC8851]

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

5.4.  Use with Declarative SDP

simulcast format identiﬁcation [RFC8851]

This document does not deﬁne the use of "a=simulcast" in declarative SDP, partly because use of
the
use cases for simulcast in declarative SDP are identiﬁed in the future, the authors of this memo
expect that additional speciﬁcations will address such use.

 is not deﬁned for use in declarative SDP. If concrete

5.5.  Relating Simulcast Streams

MUST

 be related on the RTP level through

RtpStreamId [RFC8852]
 parameters. This is suﬃcient as long as
,
BUNDLE [RFC8843]

Simulcast RTP streams
speciﬁed in the SDP
"a=simulcast" attribute (Section 5.2)
there is only a single media source per SDP media description. When using
where multiple SDP media descriptions jointly specify a single RTP session, the SDES MID (Media
Identiﬁcation) mechanism in BUNDLE allows relating RTP streams back to individual media
descriptions, after which the RtpStreamId relations described above can be used. Use of the RTP
header extension for the
 for both MID and RtpStreamId
identiﬁcations can be important to ensure rapid initial reception, required to correctly interpret
and process the RTP streams. Implementers of this speciﬁcation
description (SDES) item method and
RtpStreamId on the RTP level.

 support RTP header extension method to signal

RTCP source description items [RFC7941]

 support the RTCP source

SHOULD

MUST

, as

NOTE:

For the case where it is clear from SDP that the RTP PT uniquely maps to a

corresponding RtpStreamId, an RTP receiver can use RTP PT to relate simulcast streams. This
can sometimes enable decoding even in advance of receiving RtpStreamId information in
RTCP SDES and/or RTP header extensions.

MUST

 only use a single alternative rid-id at a time (based on RTP timestamps) but

 change format (and rid-id) on a per-RTP packet basis. This corresponds to the existing

RTP streams
MAY
(nonsimulcast) SDP oﬀer/answer case when multiple formats are included on the "m=" line in the
SDP answer, enabling per-RTP packet change of RTP payload type.

5.6.  Signaling Examples

These examples describe a client-to-video-conference service, using a centralized media topology
with an RTP mixer.

+---+      +-----------+      +---+
| A |<---->|           |<---->| B |
+---+      |           |      +---+
           |   Mixer   |
+---+      |           |      +---+
| F |<---->|           |<---->| J |
+---+      +-----------+      +---+

Figure 4: Four-Party Mixer-Based Conference

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

5.6.1.  Single-Source Client

Alice is calling in to the mixer with a simulcast-enabled client capable of a single media source
per media type. The client can send a simulcast of 2 video resolutions and frame rates: HD
1280x720p 30fps and thumbnail 320x180p 15fps. This is deﬁned below using the
[RFC6236]
formats, eﬀectively achieving a 1:1 mapping between RtpStreamId and media formats (RTP
payload types). Alice's Oﬀer:

. In this example, only the "pt" "a=rid" parameter is used to describe simulcast stream

"imageattr"

v=0
o=alice 2362969037 2362969040 IN IP4 192.0.2.156
s=Simulcast-Enabled Client
c=IN IP4 192.0.2.156
t=0 0
m=audio 49200 RTP/AVP 0
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
m=video 49300 RTP/AVP 97 98
a=rtpmap:97 H264/90000
a=rtpmap:98 H264/90000
a=fmtp:97 profile-level-id=42c01f;max-fs=3600;max-mbps=108000
a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=42c00b;max-fs=240;max-mbps=3600
a=imageattr:97 send [x=1280,y=720] recv [x=1280,y=720]
a=imageattr:98 send [x=320,y=180] recv [x=320,y=180]
a=rid:1 send pt=97
a=rid:2 send pt=98
a=rid:3 recv pt=97
a=simulcast:send 1;2 recv 3
a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:rtp-stream-id

Figure 5: Single-Source Simulcast Oﬀer

The only thing in the SDP that indicates simulcast capability is the line in the video media
description containing the "simulcast" attribute. The included "a=fmtp" and "a=imageattr"
parameters indicate that sent simulcast streams can diﬀer in video resolution. The RTP header
extension for RtpStreamId is oﬀered to avoid issues with the initial binding between RTP streams
(SSRCs) and the RtpStreamId identifying the simulcast stream and its format.

The answer from the server indicates that it, too, is simulcast capable. Should it not have been
simulcast capable, the "a=simulcast" line would not have been present, and communication
would have started with the media negotiated in the SDP. Also, the usage of the RtpStreamId RTP
header extension is accepted.

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

v=0
o=server 823479283 1209384938 IN IP4 192.0.2.2
s=Answer to Simulcast-Enabled Client
c=IN IP4 192.0.2.43
t=0 0
m=audio 49672 RTP/AVP 0
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
m=video 49674 RTP/AVP 97 98
a=rtpmap:97 H264/90000
a=rtpmap:98 H264/90000
a=fmtp:97 profile-level-id=42c01f;max-fs=3600;max-mbps=108000
a=fmtp:98 profile-level-id=42c00b;max-fs=240;max-mbps=3600
a=imageattr:97 send [x=1280,y=720] recv [x=1280,y=720]
a=imageattr:98 send [x=320,y=180] recv [x=320,y=180]
a=rid:1 recv pt=97
a=rid:2 recv pt=98
a=rid:3 send pt=97
a=simulcast:recv 1;2 send 3
a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:rtp-stream-id

Figure 6: Single-Source Simulcast Answer

Since the server is the simulcast media receiver, it reverses the direction of the "simulcast" and
"rid" attribute parameters.

5.6.2.  Multisource Client

Fred is calling in to the same conference as in the example above with a two-camera, two-display
system, thus capable of handling two separate media sources in each direction, where each
media source is simulcast enabled in the "send" direction. Fred's client is restricted to a single
media source per media description.

 and

H264 [RFC6184]

The ﬁrst two simulcast streams for the ﬁrst media source use diﬀerent codecs,
[RFC6190]
 and H264, are oﬀered as alternatives for the third
Two diﬀerent video codecs,
simulcast stream for the ﬁrst media source. Only the highest-ﬁdelity simulcast stream is sent
from start, the lower-ﬁdelity streams being initially paused.

. These two simulcast streams also have a temporal dependency.

VP8 [RFC7741]

H264-SVC

The second media source is oﬀered with three diﬀerent simulcast streams. All video streams of
this second media source are loss protected by
the highest-ﬁdelity simulcast stream are initially paused. Note that the lower resolution is more
prioritized than the medium-resolution simulcast stream.

RTP retransmission [RFC4588]

. In addition, all but

Fred's client is also using BUNDLE to send all RTP streams from all media descriptions in the
same RTP session on a single media transport. Although using many diﬀerent simulcast streams
in this example, the use of RtpStreamId as simulcast stream identiﬁcation enables use of a low
number of RTP payload types. Note that when using both
[RFC8851]

, it is recommended to use the RTP header extension for the

RTCP source descriptions

BUNDLE [RFC8843]

"a=rid"

 and

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

 for carrying these RTP stream-identiﬁcation ﬁelds, which is consequently also

items [RFC7941]
included in the SDP. Note also that for "a=rid", the corresponding RtpStreamId SDES attribute RTP
header extension is named

rtp-stream-id [RFC8852]

.

v=0
o=fred 238947129 823479223 IN IP6 2001:db8::c000:27d
s=Offer from Simulcast-Enabled Multi-Source Client
c=IN IP6 2001:db8::c000:27d
t=0 0
a=group:BUNDLE foo bar zen
m=audio 49200 RTP/AVP 99
a=mid:foo
a=rtpmap:99 G722/8000
m=video 49600 RTP/AVPF 100 101 103
a=mid:bar
a=rtpmap:100 H264-SVC/90000
a=rtpmap:101 H264/90000
a=rtpmap:103 VP8/90000
a=fmtp:100 profile-level-id=42400d;max-fs=3600;max-mbps=216000; \
    mst-mode=NI-TC
a=fmtp:101 profile-level-id=42c00d;max-fs=3600;max-mbps=108000
a=fmtp:103 max-fs=900; max-fr=30
a=rid:1 send pt=100;max-width=1280;max-height=720;max-fps=60;depend=2
a=rid:2 send pt=101;max-width=1280;max-height=720;max-fps=30
a=rid:3 send pt=101;max-width=640;max-height=360
a=rid:4 send pt=103;max-width=640;max-height=360
a=depend:100 lay bar:101
a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid
a=extmap:2 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:rtp-stream-id
a=rtcp-fb:* ccm pause nowait
a=simulcast:send 1;2;~4,3
m=video 49602 RTP/AVPF 96 104
a=mid:zen
a=rtpmap:96 VP8/90000
a=fmtp:96 max-fs=3600; max-fr=30
a=rtpmap:104 rtx/90000
a=fmtp:104 apt=96;rtx-time=200
a=rid:1 send max-fs=921600;max-fps=30
a=rid:2 send max-fs=614400;max-fps=15
a=rid:3 send max-fs=230400;max-fps=30
a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid
a=extmap:2 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:rtp-stream-id
a=extmap:3 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:repaired-rtp-stream-id
a=rtcp-fb:* ccm pause nowait
a=simulcast:send 1;~3;~2

Figure 7: Fred's Multisource Simulcast Oﬀer

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

5.6.3.  Simulcast and Redundancy

The example in this section looks at applying simulcast with audio and video redundancy
formats. The audio media description uses codec and bitrate restrictions, combined with the
payload for redundant audio data [RFC2198]
media description applies both resolution and bitrate restrictions, combined with Forward Error
Correction (FEC) in the form of

 for enhanced packet-loss resilience. The video

.
RTP retransmission [RFC4588]

ﬂexible FEC [RFC8627]

 and

RTP

The audio source is oﬀered to be sent as two simulcast streams. The ﬁrst simulcast stream is
encoded with Opus, restricted to 64 kbps (rid-id=1), and the second simulcast stream (rid-id=2) is
encoded with either G.711, or G.711 combined with linear predictive coding (LPC) for
redundancy and explicit comfort noise (CN). Both simulcast streams include telephone-event
capability. In this example, stand-alone LPC is not oﬀered as a possible payload type for the
second simulcast stream's RID, which could be motivated by, for example, not providing
suﬃcient quality.

The video source is oﬀered to be sent as two simulcast streams, both with two alternative
simulcast formats. Redundancy and repair are oﬀered in the form of both ﬂexible FEC and RTP
retransmission. The ﬂexible FEC is not bound to any particular RTP streams and is therefore able
to be used across all RTP streams that are being sent as part of this media description.

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

o=fred 238947129 823479223 IN IP6 2001:db8::c000:27d
s=Offer from Simulcast-Enabled Client using Redundancy
c=IN IP6 2001:db8::c000:27d
t=0 0
a=group:BUNDLE foo bar
m=audio 49200 RTP/AVP 97 98 99 100 101 102
a=mid:foo
a=rtpmap:97 G711/8000
a=rtpmap:98 LPC/8000
a=rtpmap:99 OPUS/48000/1
a=rtpmap:100 RED/8000/1
a=rtpmap:101 CN/8000
a=rtpmap:102 telephone-event/8000
a=fmtp:99 useinbandfec=1;usedtx=0
a=fmtp:100 97/98
a=fmtp:102 0-15
a=ptime:20
a=maxptime:40
a=rid:1 send pt=99,102;max-br=64000
a=rid:2 send pt=100,97,101,102
a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid
a=extmap:2 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:rtp-stream-id
a=simulcast:send 1;2
m=video 49600 RTP/AVPF 103 104 105 106 107
a=mid:bar
a=rtpmap:103 H264/90000
a=rtpmap:104 VP8/90000
a=rtpmap:105 rtx/90000
a=rtpmap:106 rtx/90000
a=rtpmap:107 flexfec/90000
a=fmtp:103 profile-level-id=42c00d;max-fs=3600;max-mbps=108000
a=fmtp:104 max-fs=3600; max-fr=30
a=fmtp:105 apt=103;rtx-time=200
a=fmtp:106 apt=104;rtx-time=200
a=fmtp:107 repair-window=100000
a=rid:1 send pt=103;max-width=1280;max-height=720;max-fps=30
a=rid:2 send pt=104;max-width=1280;max-height=720;max-fps=30
a=rid:3 send pt=103;max-width=640;max-height=360;max-br=300000
a=rid:4 send pt=104;max-width=640;max-height=360;max-br=300000
a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid
a=extmap:2 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:rtp-stream-id
a=extmap:3 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:repaired-rtp-stream-id
a=rtcp-fb:* ccm pause nowait
a=simulcast:send 1,2;3,4

Figure 8: Simulcast and Redundancy Example

6.  RTP Aspects

This section discusses what the diﬀerent entities in a simulcast media path can expect to happen
on the RTP level. This is explored from source to sink by starting in an endpoint with a media
source that is simulcasted to an RTP middlebox. That RTP middlebox sends media sources to

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

other RTP middleboxes (cascaded middleboxes), as well as selecting some simulcast format of the
media source and sending it to receiving endpoints. Diﬀerent types of RTP middleboxes and their
usage of the diﬀerent simulcast formats results in several diﬀerent behaviors.

6.1.  Outgoing from Endpoint with Media Source

The most straightforward simulcast case is the RTP streams being emitted from the endpoint that
originates a media source. When simulcast has been negotiated in the sending direction, the
endpoint can transmit up to the number of RTP streams needed for the negotiated simulcast
streams for that media source. Each RTP stream (SSRC) is identiﬁed by associating it (Section 5.5)
with an RtpStreamId SDES item, transmitted in RTCP and possibly also as an RTP header
extension. In cases where multiple media sources have been negotiated for the same RTP session
and thus
RtpStreamId.

 is used, the MID SDES item will also be sent, similarly to the

BUNDLE [RFC8843]

Pause/Resume [RFC7728]

Each RTP stream might not be continuously transmitted due to any of the following reasons:
temporarily paused using
pausing it, or lack of network resources to transmit this simulcast stream. However, all simulcast
streams that have been negotiated have active and maintained SSRCs (at least in regular RTCP
reports), even if no RTP packets are currently transmitted. The relation between an RTP stream
(SSRC) and a particular simulcast stream is not expected to change, except in exceptional
situations such as SSRC collisions. At SSRC changes, the usage of MID and RtpStreamId should
enable the receiver to correctly identify the RTP streams even after an SSRC change.

, sender-side application logic temporarily

6.2.  RTP Middlebox to Receiver

RTP streams in a multiparty RTP session can be used in multiple diﬀerent ways when the session
utilizes simulcast at least on the media-source-to-middlebox legs. This is to a large degree due to
the diﬀerent RTP middlebox behaviors, but also the needs of the application. This text assumes
that the RTP middlebox will select a media source and choose which simulcast stream for that
media source to deliver to a speciﬁc receiver. In many cases, at most one simulcast stream per
media source will be forwarded to a particular receiver at any instant in time, even if the
selected simulcast stream may vary. For cases where this does not hold due to application needs,
the RTP stream aspects will fall under the middlebox-to-middlebox case (Section 6.3).

The selection of which simulcast streams to forward towards the receiver is application speciﬁc.
However, in conferencing applications, active speaker selection is common. In case the number
of media sources possible to forward, N, is less than the total number of media sources available
in a multimedia session, the current and previous speakers (up to N in total) are often the ones
forwarded. To avoid the need for media-speciﬁc processing to determine the current speaker(s)
in the RTP middlebox, the endpoint providing a media source may include metadata, such as the
RTP header extension for client-to-mixer audio level indication [RFC6464]

.

The possibilities for stream switching are media type speciﬁc, but for media types with
signiﬁcant interframe dependencies in the encoding, like most video coding, the switching needs
to be made at suitable switching points in the media stream that breaks or otherwise deals with

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

the dependency structure. Even if switching points can be included periodically, it is common to
use mechanisms like
performing the encoding of the media source.

 to request switching points from the endpoint

Full Intra Requests [RFC5104]

Inclusion of the RtpStreamId SDES item for an SSRC in the middlebox-to-receiver direction
should only occur when use of RtpStreamId has been negotiated in that direction. It is worth
noting that one can signal multiple RtpStreamIds when simulcast signaling indicates only a
single simulcast stream, allowing one to use all of the RtpStreamIds as alternatives for that
simulcast stream. One reason for including the RtpStreamId in the middlebox-to-receiver
direction for an RTP stream is to let the receiver know which restrictions apply to the currently
delivered RTP stream. In case the RtpStreamId is negotiated to be used, it is important to
remember that the used identiﬁers will be speciﬁc to each signaling session. Even if the central
entity can attempt to coordinate, it is likely that the RtpStreamIds need to be translated to the leg-
speciﬁc values. The below cases will assume that RtpStreamId is not used in the mixer to receiver
direction.

6.2.1.  Media-Switching Mixer

This section discusses the behavior in cases where the RTP middlebox behaves like the media-
). The fundamental aspect here is
switching mixer in RTP topologies (
Section 3.6.2 of [RFC7667]
that the media sources delivered from the middlebox will be the mixer's conceptual or functional
ones. For example, one media source may be the main speaker in high-resolution video, while a
number of other media sources are thumbnails of each participant.

The above results in the RTP stream produced by the mixer being one that switches between a
number of received incoming RTP streams for diﬀerent media sources and in diﬀerent simulcast
versions. The mixer selects the media source to be sent as one of the RTP streams and then
selects among the available simulcast streams for the most appropriate one. The selection
criteria include available bandwidth on the mixer-to-receiver path and restrictions based on the
functional usage of the RTP stream delivered to the receiver. As an example of the latter, it is
unnecessary to forward a full HD video to a receiver if the display area is just a thumbnail. Thus,
restrictions may exist to not allow some simulcast streams to be forwarded for some of the
mixer's media sources.

This will result in a single RTP stream being used for each of the RTP mixer's media sources. At
any point in time, this RTP stream is a selection of one particular RTP stream arriving to the
mixer, where the RTP header-ﬁeld values are rewritten to provide a consistent, single RTP
stream. If the RTP mixer doesn't receive any incoming stream matched to this media source, the
SSRC will not transmit but be kept alive using RTCP. The SSRC and thus RTP stream for the
mixer's media source is expected to be long-term stable. It will only be changed by signaling or
other disruptive events. Note that although the above talks about a single RTP stream, there can
in some cases be multiple RTP streams carrying the selected simulcast stream for the originating
media source, including redundancy or other auxiliary RTP streams.

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

The mixer may communicate the identity of the originating media source to the receiver by
including the Contributing Source (CSRC) ﬁeld with the originating media source's SSRC value.
Note that due to the possibility that the RTP mixer switches between simulcast versions of the
media source, the CSRC value may change, even if the media source is kept the same.

It is important to note that any MID SDES item from the originating media source needs to be
removed and not be associated with the RTP stream's SSRC. That is, there is nothing in the
signaling between the mixer and the receiver that is structured around the originating media
sources, only the mixer's media sources. If they were associated with the SSRC, the receiver
would likely believe that there has been an SSRC collision and the RTP stream is spurious,
because it doesn't carry the identiﬁers used to relate it to the correct context. However, this is not
true for CSRC values, as long as they are never used as an SSRC. In these cases, one could provide
CNAME and MID as SDES items. A receiver could use this to determine which CSRC values that
are associated with the same originating media source.

If RtpStreamIds are used in the scenario described by this section, it should be noted that the
RtpStreamId on a particular SSRC will change based on the actual simulcast stream selected for
switching. These RtpStreamId identiﬁers will be local to this leg's signaling context. In addition,
the deﬁned RtpStreamIds and their parameters need to cover all the media sources and
simulcast streams received by the RTP mixer that can be switched into this media source, sent by
the RTP mixer.

6.2.2.  Selective Forwarding Middlebox

Section 3.7 of [RFC7667]

This section discusses the behavior in cases where the RTP middlebox behaves like the Selective
Forwarding Middlebox in RTP topologies (
). Applications for this type of
RTP middlebox result in each originating media source having a corresponding media source on
the leg between the middlebox and the receiver. A Selective Forwarding Middlebox (SFM) could
go as far as exposing all the simulcast streams for a media source; however, this section will
focus on having a single simulcast stream that can contain any of the simulcast formats. This
section will assume that the SFM projection mechanism works on the media-source level and
maps one of the media source's simulcast streams onto one RTP stream from the SFM to the
receiver.

This usage will result in the individual RTP stream(s) for one media source being able to switch
between being active and paused, based on the subset of media sources the SFM wants to
provide the receiver for the moment. With SFMs, there exist no reasons to use CSRC to indicate
the originating stream, as there is a one-to-one media-source mapping. If the application requires
knowing the simulcast version received to function well, then RtpStreamId should be negotiated
on the SFM to receiver leg. Which simulcast stream that is being forwarded is not made explicit
unless RtpStreamId is used on the leg.

Any MID SDES items being sent by the SFM to the receiver are only those agreed between the
SFM and the receiver, and no MID values from the originating side of the SFM are to be
forwarded.

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

An SFM could expose corresponding RTP streams for all the media sources and their simulcast
streams and then, for any media source that is to be provided, forward one selected simulcast
stream. However, this is not recommended, as it would unnecessarily increase the number of
RTP streams and require the receiver to timely detect switching between simulcast streams. The
above usage requires the same SFM functionality for switching, while avoiding the uncertainties
of timely detecting that an RTP stream ends. The beneﬁt would be that the received simulcast
stream would be implicitly provided by which RTP stream would be active for a media source.
However, using RtpStreamId to make this explicit also exposes which alternative format is used.
The conclusion is that using one RTP stream per simulcast stream is unnecessary. The issue with
timely detecting end of streams, independent of whether they are stopped temporarily or long
term, is that there is no explicit indication that the transmission has intentionally been stopped.
The RTCP-based
provides the last RTP sequence number transmitted prior to the pause. Due to usage, the
timeliness of this solution depends on when delivery using RTCP can occur in relation to the
transmission of the last RTP packet. If no explicit information is provided at all, then detection
based on nonincreasing RTCP SR ﬁeld values and timers need to be used to determine pause in
RTP packet delivery. As a result, when the last RTP packet arrives (if it arrives), one usually
cannot determine that this will be the last. That it was the last is something that one learns later.

pause and resume mechanism [RFC7728]

 includes a PAUSED indication that

6.3.  RTP Middlebox to RTP Middlebox

This relates to the transmission of simulcast streams between RTP middleboxes or other usages
where one wants to enable the delivery of multiple simultaneous simulcast streams per media
source, but the transmitting entity is not the originating endpoint. For a particular direction
between middleboxes A and B, this looks very similar to the originating-to-middlebox case on a
media-source basis. However, in this case, there are usually multiple media sources, originating
from multiple endpoints. This can create situations where limitations in the number of
simultaneously received media streams can arise -- for example, due to limitation in network
bandwidth. In this case, a subset of not only the simulcast streams but also media sources can be
selected. As a result, individual RTP streams can become paused at any point and later be
resumed based on various criteria.

The MIDs used between A and B are the ones agreed between these two identities in signaling.
The RtpStreamId values will also be provided to ensure explicit information about which
simulcast stream they are. The RTP-stream-to-MID and -RtpStreamId associations should here be
long-term stable.

7.  Network Aspects

Simulcast is in this memo deﬁned as the act of sending multiple alternative encoded streams of
the same underlying media source. Transmitting multiple independent streams that originate
from the same source could potentially be done in several diﬀerent ways using RTP. A general
discussion on considerations for use of the diﬀerent RTP multiplexing alternatives can be found
in
"Guidelines for Using the Multiplexing Features of RTP to Support Multiple Media Streams"
[RFC8872]
be found in

. Discussion and clariﬁcation on how to handle multiple streams in an RTP session can

.
[RFC8108]

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

The network aspects that are relevant for simulcast are:

Quality of Service (QoS):

When using simulcast, it might be of interest to prioritize a particular

simulcast stream, rather than applying equal treatment to all streams. For example, lower-
bitrate streams may be prioritized over higher-bitrate streams to minimize congestion or
packet losses in the low-bitrate streams. Thus, there is a beneﬁt to using a simulcast solution
with good QoS support.

NAT/FW Traversal (Network Address Translator / Firewall Traversal):

Using multiple RTP

sessions incurs more cost for NAT/FW traversal unless they can reuse the same transport ﬂow,
which can be achieved by

multiplexing negotiation using SDP port numbers [RFC8843]

.

7.1.  Bitrate Adaptation

Use of multiple simulcast streams can require a signiﬁcant amount of network resources. The
aggregate bandwidth for all simulcast streams for a media source (and thus SDP media
description) is bounded by any SDP "b=" line applicable to that media source. It is assumed that a
suitable congestion-control mechanism is used by the application to ensure that it doesn't cause
persistent congestion. If the amount of available network resources varies during an RTP session
such that it does not match what is negotiated in SDP, the bitrate used by the diﬀerent simulcast
streams may have to be reduced dynamically. When a simulcasting media source uses a single
media transport for all of the simulcast streams, it is likely that a joint congestion control across
all simulcast streams is used for that media source. What simulcast streams to prioritize when
allocating available bitrate among the simulcast streams in such adaptation
 be taken
from the simulcast stream order on the "a=simulcast" line and ordering of alternative simulcast
formats (Section 5.2). Simulcast streams that have pause/resume capability and that would be
given such low bitrate by the adaptation process that they are considered not really useful can be
temporarily paused until the limiting condition clears.

SHOULD

8.  Limitation

The chosen approach has a limitation that relates to the use of a single RTP session for all
simulcast formats of a media source, which comes from sending all simulcast streams related to
a media source under the same SDP media description.

It is not possible to use diﬀerent simulcast streams on diﬀerent media transports, which limits
the possibilities for applying diﬀerent QoS to diﬀerent simulcast streams. When using unicast,
QoS mechanisms based on individual packet marking are feasible, since they do not require
separation of simulcast streams into diﬀerent RTP sessions to apply diﬀerent QoS.

It is also not possible to separate diﬀerent simulcast streams into diﬀerent multicast groups to
allow a multicast receiver to pick the stream it wants, rather than receive all of them. In this
case, the only reasonable implementation is to use diﬀerent RTP sessions for each multicast
group so that reporting and other RTCP functions operate as intended. Such simulcast usage in a
multicast context is out of scope for the current document and would require additional
speciﬁcation.

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

9.  IANA Considerations

This document registers a new media-level SDP attribute, "simulcast", in the "att-ﬁeld (media
level only)" registry within the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry,
 and
according to the procedures of

.
[RFC8859]

[RFC4566]

Contact name, email:

The IESG (iesg@ietf.org)

Attribute name:

simulcast

Long-form attribute name:

Simulcast stream description

Charset dependent:

No

Attribute value:

sc-value; see Section 5.1 of RFC 8853.

Purpose:

Signals simulcast capability for a set of RTP streams

Mux category:

NORMAL

10.  Security Considerations

The simulcast capability, conﬁguration attributes, and parameters are vulnerable to attacks in
signaling.

A false inclusion of the "a=simulcast" attribute may result in simultaneous transmission of
multiple RTP streams that would otherwise not be generated. The impact is limited by the media
description joint bandwidth, shared by all simulcast streams irrespective of their number.
However, there may be a large number of unwanted RTP streams that will impact the share of
bandwidth allocated for the originally wanted RTP stream.

A hostile removal of the "a=simulcast" attribute will result in simulcast not being used.

Integrity protection and source authentication of all SDP signaling, including simulcast
attributes, can mitigate the risks of such attacks that attempt to alter signaling.

Security considerations related to the use of "a=rid" and the RtpStreamId SDES item are covered
[RFC8851]
in
speciﬁcation.

. There are no additional security concerns related to their use in this

[RFC8852]

 and

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

[RFC3264]

[RFC3550]

[RFC4566]

[RFC5234]

[RFC7405]

[RFC7728]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8843]

[RFC8851]

[RFC8852]

[RFC8859]

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

,

,

,

.

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
,
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

,

.

,

,

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

Kyzivat, P. "Case-Sensitive String Support in ABNF" RFC 7405 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7405

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7405>

, December 2014,

.

,

,

,

Burman, B., Akram, A., Even, R., and M. Westerlund "RTP Stream Pause and
Resume" RFC 7728 DOI 10.17487/RFC7728
<https://www.rfc-
editor.org/info/rfc7728>

, February 2016,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Holmberg, C., Alvestrand, H., and C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8843 DOI 10.17487/RFC8843
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8843>

,
,

,

Roach, A.B., Ed. "RTP Payload Format Restrictions" RFC 8851 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8851

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8851>

,
, January 2021,

,

,

.

Roach, A.B., Nandakumar, S., and P. Thatcher "RTP Stream Identiﬁer Source
<https://
Description (SDES)" RFC 8852 DOI 10.17487/RFC8852
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8852>

, January 2021,

,

,

.

,

,

Nandakumar, S. "A Framework for Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
,
Attributes When Multiplexing" RFC 8859 DOI 10.17487/RFC8859
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8859>

, January 2021,

11.2.  Informative References

[RFC2198]

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

Perkins, C., Kouvelas, I., Hodson, O., Hardman, V., Handley, M., Bolot, J.C., Vega-
Garcia, A., and S. Fosse-Parisis "RTP Payload for Redundant Audio Data" RFC
2198 DOI 10.17487/RFC2198
,
rfc2198>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 1997,

,

,

.

,

Zopf, R. "Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) Payload for Comfort Noise (CN)"
RFC 3389 DOI 10.17487/RFC3389
info/rfc3389>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, September 2002,

,

.

Rey, J., Leon, D., Miyazaki, A., Varsa, V., and R. Hakenberg "RTP Retransmission
Payload Format" RFC 4588 DOI 10.17487/RFC4588
<https://www.rfc-
.
editor.org/info/rfc4588>

, July 2006,

,

,

,

,
Schulzrinne, H. and T. Taylor "RTP Payload for DTMF Digits, Telephony Tones,
and Telephony Signals" RFC 4733 DOI 10.17487/RFC4733
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4733>

, December 2006,

,

,

.

Wenger, S., Chandra, U., Westerlund, M., and B. Burman "Codec Control
Messages in the RTP Audio-Visual Proﬁle with Feedback (AVPF)" RFC 5104 DOI
10.17487/RFC5104

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5104>

, February 2008,

,

.

,

,

Li, A., Ed. "RTP Payload Format for Generic Forward Error Correction" RFC
, December 2007,
,
5109 DOI 10.17487/RFC5109
rfc5109>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

.

,

Schierl, T. and S. Wenger "Signaling Media Decoding Dependency in the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 5583 DOI 10.17487/RFC5583
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5583>

, July 2009,

,

,

.

,

Wang, Y.-K., Even, R., Kristensen, T., and R. Jesup "RTP Payload Format for H.264
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
Video" RFC 6184 DOI 10.17487/RFC6184
info/rfc6184>

, May 2011,

,

.

,

Wenger, S., Wang, Y.-K., Schierl, T., and A. Eleftheriadis "RTP Payload Format for
Scalable Video Coding" RFC 6190 DOI 10.17487/RFC6190
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6190>

, May 2011,

<https://

,
.

,

,

Johansson, I. and K. Jung "Negotiation of Generic Image Attributes in the
,
Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 6236 DOI 10.17487/RFC6236
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6236>

,

.

,

, May 2011,

,
Lennox, J., Ed., Ivov, E., and E. Marocco "A Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP)
Header Extension for Client-to-Mixer Audio Level Indication" RFC 6464 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6464>
10.17487/RFC6464

, December 2011,

,

,

.

,
Begen, A., Cai, Y., and H. Ou "Duplication Grouping Semantics in the Session
,
Description Protocol" RFC 7104 DOI 10.17487/RFC7104
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7104>

, January 2014,

,

.

<https://

[RFC3389]

[RFC4588]

[RFC4733]

[RFC5104]

[RFC5109]

[RFC5583]

[RFC6184]

[RFC6190]

[RFC6236]

[RFC6464]

[RFC7104]

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

[RFC7656]

[RFC7667]

[RFC7741]

[RFC7941]

[RFC8108]

[RFC8627]

[RFC8872]

Lennox, J., Gross, K., Nandakumar, S., Salgueiro, G., and B. Burman, Ed. "A
Taxonomy of Semantics and Mechanisms for Real-Time Transport Protocol
(RTP) Sources" RFC 7656 DOI 10.17487/RFC7656
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7656>

, November 2015,

,

,

.

,

Westerlund, M. and S. Wenger "RTP Topologies" RFC 7667 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7667

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7667>

, November 2015,

.

,

,

,

Westin, P., Lundin, H., Glover, M., Uberti, J., and F. Galligan "RTP Payload Format
<https://www.rfc-
for VP8 Video" RFC 7741 DOI 10.17487/RFC7741
,
editor.org/info/rfc7741>
.

, March 2016,

,

,

Westerlund, M., Burman, B., Even, R., and M. Zanaty "RTP Header Extension for
the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Source Description Items" RFC 7941 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7941>
10.17487/RFC7941

, August 2016,

.

,

,

,

Lennox, J., Westerlund, M., Wu, Q., and C. Perkins "Sending Multiple RTP
,
Streams in a Single RTP Session" RFC 8108 DOI 10.17487/RFC8108
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8108>

,

.

,

, March 2017,

Zanaty, M., Singh, V., Begen, A., and G. Mandyam "RTP Payload Format for
Flexible Forward Error Correction (FEC)" RFC 8627 DOI 10.17487/RFC8627
2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8627>

,

,

.

,

, July

Westerlund, M., Burman, B., Perkins, C., Alvestrand, H., and R. Even "Guidelines
,
for Using the Multiplexing Features of RTP to Support Multiple Media Streams"
, January 2021,
RFC 8872 DOI 10.17487/RFC8872
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8872>

,
.

,

Appendix A.  Requirements

The following requirements are met by the deﬁned solution to support the

use cases (Section 3)

:

REQ-1:

Identiﬁcation:

REQ-1.1:

It must be possible to identify a set of simulcasted RTP streams as originating from

the same media source in SDP signaling.

REQ-1.2:

An RTP endpoint must be capable of identifying the simulcast stream that a
received RTP stream is associated with, knowing the content of the SDP signaling.

REQ-2:

Transport usage. The solution must work when using:

REQ-2.1:

Legacy SDP with separate media transports per SDP media description.

REQ-2.2:

Bundled [RFC8843]

 SDP media descriptions.

REQ-3:

Capability negotiation. The following must be possible:

REQ-3.1:

The sender can express capability of sending simulcast.

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

REQ-3.2:

The receiver can express capability of receiving simulcast.

REQ-3.3:

The sender can express the maximum number of simulcast streams that can be

provided.

REQ-3.4:

The receiver can express the maximum number of simulcast streams that can be

received.

REQ-3.5:

The sender can detail the characteristics of the simulcast streams that can be

provided.

REQ-3.6:

The receiver can detail the characteristics of the simulcast streams that it prefers to

receive.

REQ-4:

Distinguishing features. It must be possible to have diﬀerent simulcast streams use
diﬀerent codec parameters, as can be expressed by SDP format values and RTP payload types.

REQ-5:

Compatibility. It must be possible to use simulcast in combination with other RTP

mechanisms that generate additional RTP streams:

REQ-5.1:

RTP retransmission [RFC4588]

.

REQ-5.2:

RTP Forward Error Correction [RFC5109]

.

REQ-5.3:

Related payload types such as audio Comfort Noise and/or DTMF.

REQ-5.4:

A single simulcast stream can consist of multiple RTP streams, to support codecs

where a dependent stream is dependent on a set of encoded and dependent streams, each
potentially carried in their own RTP stream.

REQ-6:

Interoperability. The solution must be possible to use in:

REQ-6.1:

Interworking with nonsimulcast legacy clients using a single media source per

media type.

REQ-6.2:

WebRTC environment with a single media source per SDP media description.

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Baz Castillo Paul Kyzivat
, and
,
development of this document.

Bernard Aboba Thomas Belling Roni Even Adam Roach Iñaki
,

,

,

,

Arun Arunachalam

 for the feedback they provided during the

Contributors

 and

Fredrik Jansson

Morgan Lindqvist
material to the ﬁrst draft versions of this document.
Adam Roach
Peter Thatcher
Cisco,
subsequent versions.

 from Google, and

, both from Ericsson, have contributed with important
Robert Hanton
 from
 from Mozilla contributed signiﬁcantly to

Cullen Jennings

 and

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8853

Simulcast

January 2021

Authors' Addresses

Bo Burman
Ericsson
Gronlandsgatan 31
SE-164 60 Stockholm
Sweden
Email:

 bo.burman@ericsson.com

Magnus Westerlund
Ericsson
Torshamnsgatan 23
SE-164 83 Stockholm
Sweden
Email:

 magnus.westerlund@ericsson.com

Suhas Nandakumar
Cisco
170 West Tasman Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

 snandaku@cisco.com

Mo Zanaty
Cisco
170 West Tasman Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

 mzanaty@cisco.com

Burman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

