Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8780
Standards Track
July 2020
2070-1721
Y. Lee,
 Ed.
Samsung Electronics

R. Casellas,
CTTC

 Ed.

RFC 8780
The Path Computation Element Communication
Protocol (PCEP) Extension for Wavelength Switched
Optical Network (WSON) Routing and Wavelength
Assignment (RWA)

Abstract

This document provides Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) extensions
for the support of Routing and Wavelength Assignment (RWA) in Wavelength Switched Optical
Networks (WSONs). Path provisioning in WSONs requires an RWA process. From a path
computation perspective, wavelength assignment is the process of determining which
wavelength can be used on each hop of a path and forms an additional routing constraint to
optical path computation.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8780

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identi’¼üed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in e’¼Ćect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpli’¼üed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpli’¼üed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Requirements Language

4.  Encoding of an RWA Path Request

4.1.  Wavelength Assignment (WA) Object

4.2.  Wavelength Selection TLV

4.3.  Wavelength Restriction TLV

4.3.1.  Link Identi’¼üer Field

4.3.2.  Wavelength Constraint Field

4.4.  Signal Processing Capability Restrictions

4.4.1.  Signal Processing Exclusion

4.4.2.  Signal Processing Inclusion

5.  Encoding of an RWA Path Reply

5.1.  Wavelength Allocation TLV

5.2.  Error Indicator

5.3.  NO-PATH Indicator

6.  Manageability Considerations

6.1.  Control of Function and Policy

6.2.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

6.3.  Verifying Correct Operation

6.4.  Requirements on Other Protocols and Functional Components

6.5.  Impact on Network Operation

7.  Security Considerations

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  New PCEP Object: Wavelength Assignment Object

8.2.  WA Object Flag Field

8.3.  New PCEP TLV: Wavelength Selection TLV

8.4.  New PCEP TLV: Wavelength Restriction TLV

8.5.  Wavelength Restriction TLV Action Values

8.6.  New PCEP TLV: Wavelength Allocation TLV

8.7.  Wavelength Allocation TLV Flag Field

8.8.  New PCEP TLV: Optical Interface Class List TLV

8.9.  New PCEP TLV: Client Signal Information TLV

8.10. New Bit Flag for NO-PATH-VECTOR TLV

8.11. New Error-Types and Error-Values

8.12. New Subobjects for the Exclude Route Object

8.13. New Subobjects for the Include Route Object

8.14. Request for Updated Note for LMP TE Link Object Class Type

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC5440]
 speci’¼ües the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) for
communications between a Path Computation Client (PCC) and a PCE, or between two PCEs. Such
interactions include Path Computation Requests (PCReqs) and Path Computation Replies
(PCReps) as well as noti’¼ücations of speci’¼üc states related to the use of a PCE in the context of
Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) and Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) Tra’¼āc Engineering (TE).

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

A PCC is said to be any network component that makes such a request and may be, for instance,
an optical switching element within a Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) network. The
PCE, itself, can be located anywhere within the network and may be within an optical switching
element, a Network Management System (NMS), or an Operational Support System (OSS), or it
may be an independent network server.

This document provides the PCEP extensions for the support of Routing and Wavelength
Assignment (RWA) in Wavelength Switched Optical Networks (WSONs) based on the
requirements speci’¼üed in

[RFC7449]

[RFC6163]

 and

.

WSON refers to WDM-based optical networks in which switching is performed selectively based
on the wavelength of an optical signal. The devices used in WSONs that are able to switch signals
based on signal wavelength are known as Lambda Switch Capable (LSC). WSONs can be
transparent or translucent. A transparent optical network is made up of optical devices that can
switch but not convert from one wavelength to another, all within the optical domain. On the
other hand, translucent networks include 3R regenerators (reampli’¼ücation, reshaping, and
retiming) that are sparsely placed. The main function of the 3R regenerators is to convert one
optical wavelength to another.

An LSC Label Switched Path (LSP) may span one or several transparent segments, which are
delimited by 3R regenerators typically with electronic regenerator and optional wavelength
conversion. Each transparent segment or path in WSON is referred to as an optical path. An
optical path may span multiple ’¼über links, and the path should be assigned the same wavelength
for each link. In a case, the optical path is said to satisfy the wavelength-continuity constraint.
Figure 1 illustrates the relationship between an LSC LSP and transparent segments (optical
paths).

+---+       +-----+       +-----+      +-----+         +-----+
|   |I1     |     |       |     |      |     |       I2|     |
|   |o------|     |-------[(3R) ]------|     |--------o|     |
|   |       |     |       |     |      |     |         |     |
+---+       +-----+       +-----+      +-----+         +-----+
    (X  LSC)     (LSC  LSC)    (LSC  LSC)     (LSC  X)
     <------->   <------->       <----->     <------->
     <-----------------------><---------------------->
      Transparent Segment         Transparent Segment
    <------------------------------------------------->
                           LSC LSP

Figure 1: Illustration of an LSC LSP and Transparent Segments

Note that two transparent segments within a WSON LSP do not need to operate on the same
wavelength (due to wavelength conversion capabilities). Two optical channels that share a
common ’¼über link cannot be assigned the same wavelength; otherwise, the two signals would
interfere with each other. Note that advanced additional multiplexing techniques such as
polarization-based multiplexing are not addressed in this document since the physical-layer
aspects are not currently standardized. Therefore, assigning the proper wavelength on a path is
an essential requirement in the optical path computation process.

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

When a switching node has the ability to perform wavelength conversion, the wavelength-
continuity constraint can be relaxed, and an LSP may use di’¼Ćerent wavelengths on di’¼Ćerent
links along its route from origin to destination. It is, however, to be noted that wavelength
converters may be limited due to their relatively high cost, while the number of WDM channels
that can be supported in a ’¼über is also limited. As a WSON can be composed of network nodes
that cannot perform wavelength conversion, nodes with limited wavelength conversion, and
nodes with full wavelength conversion abilities, wavelength assignment is an additional routing
constraint to be considered in all optical path computation.

For example (see Figure 1), within a translucent WSON, an LSC LSP may be established between
interfaces I1 and I2, spanning two transparent segments (optical paths) where the wavelength
continuity constraint applies (i.e., the same unique wavelength must be assigned to the LSP at
each TE link of the segment). If the LSC LSP induced a Forwarding Adjacency / TE link, the
switching capabilities of the TE link would be (X X), where X refers to the switching capability of
I1 and I2. For example, X can be Packet Switch Capable (PSC), Time-Division Multiplexing (TDM),
etc.

This document aligns with
assignment, noting that a wavelength is a type of label. Wavelength restrictions and constraints
.
are also formulated in terms of labels per
[RFC7579]

 for generic properties such as label, label set, and label

[RFC8779]

 and

[RFC7581]

[RFC7688]

. In order to improve the signal quality

The optical modulation properties, which are also referred to as signal compatibility, are already
considered in the signaling in
and limit some optical e’¼Ćects, several advanced modulation processing capabilities are used by
the mechanisms speci’¼üed in this document. These modulation capabilities not only contribute to
optical signal quality checks but also constrain the selection of sender and receiver, as they
should have matching signal processing capabilities. This document includes signal compatibility
constraints as part of RWA path computation. That is, the signal processing capabilities (e.g.,
modulation and Forward Error Correction (FEC)) indicated by means of the Optical Interface
Class (OIC) must be compatible between the sender and the receiver of the optical path across all
optical elements.

This document, however, does not address optical impairments as part of RWA path
computation. See

 for the framework for optical impairments.

[RFC6566]

2.  Terminology

This document uses the terminology de’¼üned in

[RFC4655]

 and

[RFC5440]
.

3.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

4.  Encoding of an RWA Path Request

Figure 2 shows one typical PCE-based implementation, which is referred to as the Combined
Process (R&WA). With this architecture, the two processes of routing and wavelength assignment
are accessed via a single PCE. This architecture is the base architecture speci’¼üed in
and the PCEP extensions that are speci’¼üed in this document are based on this architecture.

[RFC6163]
,

                       +----------------------------+
         +-----+       |     +-------+     +--+     |
         |     |       |     |Routing|     |WA|     |
         | PCC |<----->|     +-------+     +--+     |
         |     |       |                            |
         +-----+       |             PCE            |
                       +----------------------------+

Figure 2: Combined Process (R&WA) Architecture

4.1.  Wavelength Assignment (WA) Object

Wavelength allocation can be performed by the PCE by means of:

(a)

(b)

Explicit Label Control
interface/node along the path. The allocated labels
subobject.

[RFC3471]

 where the PCE allocates which label to use for each

MAY

 appear after an interface route

A Label Set where the PCE provides a range of potential labels to be allocated by each node
along the path.

Option (b) allows distributed label allocation (performed during signaling) to complete
wavelength assignment.

Additionally, given a range of potential labels to allocate, a PCReq
or mechanism used for the allocation.

SHOULD

 convey the heuristic

[RFC5440]

Per
(WA) object is as follows:

, the format of a PCReq message after incorporating the Wavelength Assignment

<PCReq Message> ::= <Common Header>

                       [<svec-list>]

                       <request-list>

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

Where:

      <request-list>::=<request>[<request-list>]

      <request>::= <RP>
                   <END-POINTS>

                   <WA>

                   [other optional objects...]

If the WA object is present in the request, it
de’¼üned in
[RFC8779]
optional objects are irrelevant.

 be encoded after the END-POINTS object as
. The WA object is mandatory in this document. Orderings for the other

MUST

For the WA object, the Object-Class is 42, and the Object-Type is 1.

The format of the WA object body is as follows:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|          Reserved             |            Flags            |M|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
//                            TLVs                             //
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: WA Object

Reserved (16 bits):

Reserved for future use and

SHOULD

 be zeroed and ignored on receipt.

Flags ’¼üeld (16 bits):

One ’¼éag bit is allocated as follows:

M (1 bit):

Wavelength Allocation Mode. The M bit is used to indicate the mode of
wavelength assignment. When the M bit is set to 1, this indicates that the label
assigned by the PCE must be explicit. That is, the selected way to convey the
allocated wavelength is by means of Explicit Label Control for each hop of a
computed LSP. Otherwise (M bit is set to 0), the label assigned by the PCE need not be
explicit (i.e., it can be suggested in the form of Label Set objects in the corresponding
response, to allow distributed WA. If M is 0, the PCE
 return a Label Set Field as
described in
 in the response. See Section 5 of this document
for the encoding discussion of a Label Set Field in a PCRep message.

Section 2.6 of [RFC7579]

MUST

All unused ’¼éags
’¼üeld of the WA object.

SHOULD

 be zeroed. IANA has created a new registry to manage the Flags

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

TLVs (variable):

In the TLVs ’¼üeld, the following two TLVs are de’¼üned. At least one TLV

MUST

 be

present.

Wavelength Selection TLV:

The type of this TLV is 8, and it has a ’¼üxed length of 32 bits.

This TLV indicates the wavelength selection. See Section 4.2 for details.

Wavelength Restriction TLV:

The type of this TLV is 9, and it has a variable length. This

TLV indicates wavelength restrictions. See Section 4.3 for details.

4.2.  Wavelength Selection TLV

The Wavelength Selection TLV is used to indicate the wavelength selection constraint in regard to
the order of wavelength assignment to be returned by the PCE. This TLV is only applied when the
M bit is set in the WA object speci’¼üed in Section 4.1. This TLV
is cleared.

 be used when the M bit

MUST NOT

The encoding of this TLV is speci’¼üed as the WavelengthSelection sub-TLV in
[RFC7689]

. IANA has allocated a new TLV type for the Wavelength Selection TLV (Type 8).

Section 4.2.2 of

4.3.  Wavelength Restriction TLV

For any request that contains a wavelength assignment, the requester (PCC)
restriction on the wavelengths to be used. This restriction is to be interpreted by the PCE as a
constraint on the tuning ability of the origination laser transmitter or on any other maintenance-
related constraints. Note that if the LSC LSP spans di’¼Ćerent segments, the PCE must have
mechanisms to know the tunability restrictions of the involved wavelength converters/
regenerators, e.g., by means of the Tra’¼āc Engineering Database (TED) via either IGP or NMS.
Even if the PCE knows the tunability of the transmitter, the PCC must be able to apply additional
constraints to the request.

 specify a

MUST

The format of the Wavelength Restriction TLV is as follows:

<Wavelength Restriction> ::=

               (<Action> <Count> <Reserved>

               <Link Identifiers> <Wavelength Constraint>)...

Where:

<Link Identifiers> ::= <Link Identifier> [<Link Identifiers>]

See Section 4.3.1 for the encoding of the Link Identi’¼üer ’¼üeld.

These ’¼üelds (i.e., <Action>, <Link Identi’¼üers>, and <Wavelength Constraint>, etc.)
together more than once to be able to specify multiple actions and their restrictions.

MAY

 appear

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

IANA has allocated a new TLV type for the Wavelength Restriction TLV (Type 9).

The TLV data is de’¼üned as follows:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Action        |    Count      |           Reserved            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Link Identifiers                         |
//                          . . .                              //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Wavelength Constraint                      |
//                        . . . .                              //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~                         . . . .                               ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Action        |    Count      |           Reserved            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Link Identifiers                         |
//                          . . .                              //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Wavelength Constraint                      |
//                        . . . .                              //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: Wavelength Restriction TLV Encoding

Action (8 bits):
0:

Inclusive List. Indicates that one or more link identi’¼üers are included in the Link
Set. Each identi’¼ües a separate link that is part of the set.

1:

Inclusive Range. Indicates that the Link Set de’¼ünes a range of links. It contains two
link identi’¼üers. The ’¼ürst identi’¼üer indicates the start of the range (inclusive). The
second identi’¼üer indicates the end of the range (inclusive). All links with numeric
values between the bounds are considered to be part of the set. A value of zero in
either position indicates that there is no bound on the corresponding portion of the
range.

2-255:

Unassigned.

IANA has created a new registry to manage the Action values of the Wavelength
Restriction TLV.

If a PCE receives an unrecognized Action value, the PCE
message with a PCEP-ERROR object with Error-Type=27 and an Error-value=3. See Section
5.2 for details.

 send a PCEP Error (PCErr)

MUST

Note that "links" are assumed to be bidirectional.

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

Count (8 bits):

The number of the link identi’¼üers.

Note that a PCC
Count ’¼üeld to zero and specifying just a set of wavelengths.

MAY

 add a Wavelength restriction that applies to all links by setting the

Note that all link identi’¼üers in the same list

MUST

 be of the same type.

Reserved (16 bits):

Reserved for future use and

SHOULD

 be zeroed and ignored on receipt.

Link Identi’¼üers:

Identi’¼ües each link ID for which restriction is applied. The length is dependent on the link
format and the Count ’¼üeld. See Section 4.3.1 for encoding of the Link Identi’¼üer ’¼üeld.

Wavelength Constraint:

See Section 4.3.2 for the encoding of the Wavelength Constraint ’¼üeld.

Various encoding errors are possible with this TLV (e.g., not exactly two link identi’¼üers with the
range case, unknown identi’¼üer types, no matching link for a given identi’¼üer, etc.). To indicate
 send a PCErr message with Error-
errors associated with this encoding, a PCEP speaker
Type=27 and Error-value=3. See Section 5.2 for details.

MUST

4.3.1.  Link Identi’¼üer Field

The Link Identi’¼üer ’¼üeld can be an IPv4
[RFC4203]
.

[RFC3630]

<Link Identifier> ::=

, IPv6

[RFC5329]

, or unnumbered interface ID

            <IPv4 Address> | <IPv6 Address> | <Unnumbered IF ID>

The encoding of each case is as follows.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  Type = 1     |    Reserved  (24 bits)                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| IPv4 address (4 bytes)                                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: IPv4 Address Field

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  Type = 2     |    Reserved  (24 bits)                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| IPv6 address (16 bytes)                                       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| IPv6 address (continued)                                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| IPv6 address (continued)                                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| IPv6 address (continued)                                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: IPv6 Address Field

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  Type = 3     |    Reserved (24 bits)                         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                        TE Node ID (32 bits)                   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                        Interface ID (32 bits)                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: Unnumbered Interface ID Address Field

Type (8 bits):

Indicates the type of the link identi’¼üer.

Reserved (24 bits):

Reserved for future use and

SHOULD

 be zeroed and ignored on receipt.

Link Identi’¼üer:

When the Type ’¼üeld is 1, a 4-byte IPv4 address is encoded; when the Type ’¼üeld

is 2, a 16-byte IPv6 address is encoded; and when the Type ’¼üeld is 3, a tuple of a 4-byte TE
node ID and a 4-byte interface ID is encoded.

The Type ’¼üeld is extensible and matches the "TE_LINK Object Class type name space (Value 11)"
registry created for the Link Management Protocol (LMP)
). IANA
has added an introductory note before the aforementioned registry stating that the values have
additional usage for the Link Identi’¼üer Type ’¼üeld. See Section 8.14.

[LMP-PARAM]

[RFC4204]

 (see

4.3.2.  Wavelength Constraint Field

The Wavelength Constraint ’¼üeld of the Wavelength Restriction TLV is encoded as a Label Set
Field as speci’¼üed in
[RFC6205]
de’¼üned in
internal structure included. See
Identi’¼üer, and n, and see

Section 2.6 of [RFC7579]
 with the base label encoded as a 32-bit LSC label, as
. The Label Set format is repeated here for convenience, with the base label

 for a description of Grid, Channel Spacing (C.S.),

 for the details of each action.

[RFC6205]

[RFC7579]

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Action|    Num Labels         |          Length               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Grid | C.S.  |    Identifier   |              n                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Additional fields as necessary per action                 |
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 8: Wavelength Constraint Field

Action (4 bits):
0:

Inclusive List

1:

2:

3:

4:

Exclusive List

Inclusive Range

Exclusive Range

Bitmap Set

Num Labels (12 bits):

It is generally the number of labels. It has a speci’¼üc meaning depending on the action
value.

Length (16 bits):

It is the length in bytes of the entire Wavelength Constraint ’¼üeld.

Identi’¼üer (9 bits):

The Identi’¼üer is always set to 0. If PCC receives the value of the identi’¼üer other than 0, it
will ignore.

See Sections 2.6.1-2.6.3 of

[RFC7579]

 for details on additional ’¼üeld discussion for each action.

4.4.  Signal Processing Capability Restrictions

Path computation for WSON includes the checking of signal processing capabilities at each
interface against requested capability; the PCE
 have mechanisms to know the signal
processing capabilities at each interface, e.g., by means of (TED) via either IGP or NMS. Moreover,
a PCC should be able to indicate additional restrictions to signal processing compatibility, on
either the endpoint or any given link.

MUST

The supported signal processing capabilities considered in the RWA Information Model
[RFC7446]

 are:

ŌĆó

Optical Interface Class List

ŌĆó

Bit Rate

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

ŌĆó

Client Signal

The bit rate restriction is already expressed in the BANDWIDTH object in

[RFC8779]
.

In order to support the optical interface class information and the client signal information, new
TLVs are introduced as endpoint restrictions in the END-POINTS type Generalized Endpoint:

ŌĆó

Client Signal Information TLV

ŌĆó

Optical Interface Class List TLV

The END-POINTS type Generalized Endpoint is extended as follows:

<endpoint-restriction> ::=
                      <LABEL-REQUEST> <label-restriction-list>

<label-restriction-list> ::= <label-restriction>
                             [<label-restriction-list>]

<label-restriction> ::= (<LABEL-SET>|
                        [<Wavelength Restriction>]
                        [<signal-compatibility-restriction>])

Where:

<signal-compatibility-restriction> ::=
    [<Optical Interface Class List>] [<Client Signal Information>]

The Wavelength Restriction TLV is de’¼üned in Section 4.3.

A new Optical Interface Class List TLV (Type 11) is de’¼üned; the encoding of the value part of this
TLV is described in

Section 4.1 of [RFC7581]
.

A new Client Signal Information TLV (Type 12) is de’¼üned; the encoding of the value part of this
TLV is described in

Section 4.2 of [RFC7581]
.

4.4.1.  Signal Processing Exclusion

The PCC/PCE should be able to exclude particular types of signal processing along the path in
order to handle client restriction or multi-domain path computation.
Exclude Route Object (XRO) subobject is used. In this document, we add two new XRO Signal
Processing Exclusion subobjects.

[RFC5521]

 de’¼ünes how the

The ’¼ürst XRO subobject type (8) is the Optical Interface Class List, which is de’¼üned as follows:

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|X|  Type=8     |     Length    |   Reserved    | Attribute     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//              Optical Interface Class List                   //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 9: Optical Interface Class List XRO Subobject

Refer to

[RFC5521]

 for the de’¼ünitions of X, Length, and Attribute.

Type (7 bits):

The type of the Signaling Processing Exclusion ’¼üeld. IANA has assigned value 8 for

the Optical Interface Class List XRO subobject type.

Reserved bits (8 bits):

These are for future use and

SHOULD

 be zeroed and ignored on receipt.

Attribute (8 bits):

[RFC5521]

 de’¼ünes several Attribute values; the only permitted Attribute

values for this ’¼üeld are 0 (Interface) or 1 (Node).

Optical Interface Class List:

This ’¼üeld is encoded as described in

Section 4.1 of [RFC7581]

.

The second XRO subobject type (9) is the Client Signal Information, which is de’¼üned as follows:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|X|  Type=9     |     Length    |   Reserved    |  Attribute    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//                Client Signal Information                    //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 10: Client Signal Information XRO Subobject

Refer to

[RFC5521]

 for the de’¼ünitions of X, Length, and Attribute.

Type (7 bits):

The type of the Signaling Processing Exclusion ’¼üeld. IANA has assigned value 9 for

the Client Signal Information XRO subobject type.

Reserved bits (8 bits):

These are for future use and

SHOULD

 be zeroed and ignored on receipt.

Attribute (8 bits):

[RFC5521]

 de’¼ünes several Attribute values; the only permitted Attribute

values for this ’¼üeld are 0 (Interface) or 1 (Node).

Client Signal Information:

This ’¼üeld is encoded as described in

Section 4.2 of [RFC7581]

.

The XRO needs to support the new Signaling Processing Exclusion XRO subobject types:

8:

Optical Interface Class List

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

9:

Client Signal Information

4.4.2.  Signal Processing Inclusion

Similar to the XRO subobject, the PCC/PCE should be able to include particular types of signal
processing along the path in order to handle client restriction or multi-domain path
computation.
document, we add two new Signal Processing Inclusion subobjects.

 de’¼ünes how the Include Route Object (IRO) subobject is used. In this

[RFC5440]

The IRO needs to support the new IRO subobject types (8 and 9) for the PCEP IRO object
:
[RFC5440]

8:

9:

Optical Interface Class List

Client Signal Information

The encoding of the Signal Processing Inclusion subobjects is similar to the process in Section
4.4.1 where the 'X' ’¼üeld is replaced with the 'L' ’¼üeld; all the other ’¼üelds remain the same. The 'L'
’¼üeld is described in

[RFC3209]

.

5.  Encoding of an RWA Path Reply

This section provides the encoding of an RWA Path Reply for a wavelength allocation request as
discussed in Section 4.

5.1.  Wavelength Allocation TLV

Recall that wavelength allocation can be performed by the PCE by means of:

(a)

(b)

Explicit Label Control (ELC) where the PCE allocates which label to use for each interface/
node along the path.

A Label Set where the PCE provides a range of potential labels to be allocated by each node
along the path.

Option (b) allows distributed label allocation (performed during signaling) to complete
wavelength allocation.

The type for the Wavelength Allocation TLV is 10 (see Section 8.4). Note that this TLV is used for
both (a) and (b) above. The TLV data is de’¼üned as follows:

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|            Reserved           |          Flags              |M|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       Link Identifier                         |
//                          . . .                              //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Allocated Wavelength(s)                    |
//                        . . . .                              //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 11: Wavelength Allocation TLV Encoding

Reserved (16 bits):

Reserved for future use.

Flags ’¼üeld (16 bits):

One ’¼éag bit is allocated as follows:

M (1 bit):

Wavelength Allocation Mode.

0:

1:

Indicates the allocation relies on the use of Label Sets.

Indicates the allocation is done using Explicit Label Control.

IANA has created a new registry to manage the Flags ’¼üeld of the Wavelength Allocation
TLV.

Link Identi’¼üer:

Identi’¼ües the interface to which the assignment wavelength(s) is applied. See

Section 4.3.1 for encoding of the Link Identi’¼üer ’¼üeld.

Allocated Wavelength(s):

Indicates the allocated wavelength(s) to be associated with the link

identi’¼üer. See Section 4.3.2 for encoding details.

This TLV is carried in a PCRep message as an Attribute TLV
subobjects

 in the Explicit Route Object (ERO)

[RFC7570]

[RFC5440]

.

[RFC5420]

 in the Hop Attribute

5.2.  Error Indicator

To indicate errors associated with the RWA request, a new Error-Type 27 (WSON RWA Error) and
subsequent Error-values are de’¼üned as follows for inclusion in the PCEP-ERROR object:

ŌĆó

Error-Type=27; Error-value=1: If a PCE receives an RWA request and the PCE is not capable
of processing the request due to insu’¼ācient memory, the PCE
 send a PCErr message
with a PCEP-ERROR object with Error-Type=27 and Error-value=1. The PCE stops processing
the request. The corresponding RWA request

 be canceled at the PCC.

MUST

MUST

ŌĆó

Error-Type=27; Error-value=2: If a PCE receives an RWA request and the PCE is not capable
of RWA computation, the PCE
Error-Type=27 and Error-value=2. The PCE stops processing the request. The corresponding
RWA computation

 send a PCErr message with a PCEP-ERROR object with

 be canceled at the PCC.

MUST

MUST

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

ŌĆó

Error-Type=27; Error-value=3: If a PCE receives an RWA request and there are syntactical
encoding errors (e.g., not exactly two link identi’¼üers with the range case, unknown identi’¼üer
types, no matching link for a given identi’¼üer, unknown Action value, etc.), the PCE
MUST
send a PCErr message with a PCEP-ERROR object with Error-Type=27 and Error-value=3.

5.3.  NO-PATH Indicator

To communicate the reason(s) for not being able to ’¼ünd RWA for the path request, the NO-PATH
object can be used in the corresponding response. The format of the NO-PATH object body is
de’¼üned in
. The object may contain a NO-PATH-VECTOR TLV to provide additional
information about why a path computation has failed.

[RFC5440]

This document de’¼ünes a new bit ’¼éag to be carried in the Flags ’¼üeld in the NO-PATH-VECTOR TLV,
which is carried in the NO-PATH object:

Bit 23:

When set, the PCE indicates no feasible route was found that meets all the constraints

(e.g., wavelength restriction, signal compatibility, etc.) associated with RWA.

6.  Manageability Considerations

Manageability of WSON RWA with PCE must address the considerations in the following
subsections.

6.1.  Control of Function and Policy

In addition to the parameters already listed in
SHOULD

 allow con’¼üguration of the following PCEP session parameters on a PCC:

Section 8.1 of [RFC5440]

, a PCEP implementation

ŌĆó

The ability to send a WSON RWA request.

In addition to the parameters already listed in
SHOULD

 allow con’¼üguration of the following PCEP session parameters on a PCE:

Section 8.1 of [RFC5440]

, a PCEP implementation

ŌĆó

The support for WSON RWA.

ŌĆó

A set of WSON-RWA-speci’¼üc policies (authorized sender, request rate limiter, etc).

These parameters may be con’¼ügured as default parameters for any PCEP session the PCEP
speaker participates in, or they may apply to a speci’¼üc session with a given PCEP peer or a
speci’¼üc group of sessions with a speci’¼üc group of PCEP peers.

6.2.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

Mechanisms de’¼üned in this document do not imply any new liveness detection and monitoring
requirements, aside from those already listed in

Section 8.3 of [RFC5440]

.

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

6.3.  Verifying Correct Operation

Mechanisms de’¼üned in this document do not imply any new veri’¼ücation requirements, aside
from those already listed in

Section 8.4 of [RFC5440]
.

6.4.  Requirements on Other Protocols and Functional Components

The PCEP Link-State mechanism
computation capabilities to PCCs.

[PCEP-LS]

 may be used to advertise WSON RWA path

6.5.  Impact on Network Operation

Mechanisms de’¼üned in this document do not imply any new network operation requirements,
aside from those already listed in

Section 8.6 of [RFC5440]
.

7.  Security Considerations

The security considerations discussed in
 are relevant for this document; this
document does not introduce any new security issues. If an operator wishes to keep the
information distributed by WSON private, PCEPS (Usage of TLS to Provide a Secure Transport for
PCEP)

[RFC8253] SHOULD

[RFC5440]

 be used.

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA maintains a registry of PCEP parameters. IANA has made allocations from the subregistries
as described in the following sections.

8.1.  New PCEP Object: Wavelength Assignment Object

As described in Section 4.1, a new PCEP object is de’¼üned to carry wavelength-assignment-related
[PCEP-NUMBERS]
:
constraints. IANA has allocated the following in the "PCEP Objects" subregistry

Object-Class Value Name Object-Type

Reference

42

WA

0: Reserved

RFC 8780

1: Wavelength Assignment

RFC 8780

Table 1

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

8.2.  WA Object Flag Field

As described in Section 4.1, IANA has created the "WA Object Flag Field" subregistry under the
"Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry
Flags ’¼üeld of the WA object. New values are to be assigned by Standards Action
bit should be tracked with the following qualities:

 to manage the
. Each

[PCEP-NUMBERS]

[RFC8126]

ŌĆó

Bit number (counting from bit 0 as the most signi’¼ücant bit)

ŌĆó

Capability description

ŌĆó

De’¼üning RFC

The initial contents of this registry are shown below. One bit has been allocated for the ’¼éag
de’¼üned in this document:

Bit

Description

Reference

0-14

Unassigned

15

Wavelength Allocation Mode

RFC 8780

Table 2

8.3.  New PCEP TLV: Wavelength Selection TLV

In Section 4.2, a new PCEP TLV is de’¼üned to indicate wavelength selection constraints. IANA has
:
made the following allocation in the "PCEP TLV Type Indicators" subregistry

[PCEP-NUMBERS]

Value Description

Reference

8

Wavelength Selection

RFC 8780

Table 3

8.4.  New PCEP TLV: Wavelength Restriction TLV

In Section 4.3, a new PCEP TLV is de’¼üned to indicate wavelength restrictions. IANA has made the
following allocation in the "PCEP TLV Type Indicators" subregistry

[PCEP-NUMBERS]
:

Value Description

Reference

9

Wavelength Restriction

RFC 8780

Table 4

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

8.5.  Wavelength Restriction TLV Action Values

As described in Section 4.3, IANA has created the new "Wavelength Restriction TLV Action
Values" subregistry under the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry
[PCEP-NUMBERS]
TLV. New values are assigned by Standards Action
the following qualities:

 to manage the Action values of the Action ’¼üeld of the Wavelength Restriction
[RFC8126]

. Each value should be tracked with

ŌĆó

Value

ŌĆó

Meaning

ŌĆó

De’¼üning RFC

The initial contents of this registry are shown below:

Value Meaning

Reference

0

1

Inclusive List

RFC 8780

Inclusive Range

RFC 8780

2-255

Unassigned

Table 5

8.6.  New PCEP TLV: Wavelength Allocation TLV

In Section 5.1, a new PCEP TLV is de’¼üned to indicate the allocation of the wavelength(s) by the
PCE in response to a request by the PCC. IANA has made the following allocation in "PCEP TLV
:
Type Indicators" subregistry
[PCEP-NUMBERS]

Value Description

Reference

10

Wavelength Allocation

RFC 8780

Table 6

8.7.  Wavelength Allocation TLV Flag Field

As described in Section 5.1, IANA has created a new "Wavelength Allocation TLV Flag Field"
[PCEP-
subregistry under the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry
NUMBERS]
 to manage the Flags ’¼üeld of the Wavelength Allocation TLV. New values are to be
assigned by Standards Action

. Each bit should be tracked with the following qualities:

[RFC8126]

ŌĆó

Bit number (counting from bit 0 as the most signi’¼ücant bit)

ŌĆó

Capability description

ŌĆó

De’¼üning RFC

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

One bit is de’¼üned for the ’¼éag de’¼üned in this document. The initial contents of this registry are
shown below:

Bit

Description

Reference

0-14

Unassigned

15

Wavelength Allocation Mode

RFC 8780

Table 7

8.8.  New PCEP TLV: Optical Interface Class List TLV

In Section 4.4, a new PCEP TLV is de’¼üned to indicate the Optical Interface Class List. IANA has
[PCEP-NUMBERS]
made the following allocation in the "PCEP TLV Type Indicators" subregistry

:

Value Description

Reference

11

Optical Interface Class List

RFC 8780

Table 8

8.9.  New PCEP TLV: Client Signal Information TLV

In Section 4.4, a new PCEP TLV is de’¼üned to indicate the Client Signal Information. IANA has
made the following allocation in the "PCEP TLV Type Indicators" subregistry

[PCEP-NUMBERS]

:

Value Description

Reference

12

Client Signal Information

RFC 8780

Table 9

8.10.  New Bit Flag for NO-PATH-VECTOR TLV

In Section 5.3, a new bit ’¼éag is de’¼üned to be carried in the Flags ’¼üeld in the NO-PATH-VECTOR
TLV, which is carried in the NO-PATH object. This ’¼éag, when set, indicates that no feasible route
was found that meets all the RWA constraints (e.g., wavelength restriction, signal compatibility,
etc.) associated with an RWA path computation request.

IANA has made the following allocation for this new bit ’¼éag in the "NO-PATH-VECTOR TLV Flag
Field" subregistry

[PCEP-NUMBERS]

:

Bit Description

Reference

23

No RWA constraints met

RFC 8780

Table 10

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

8.11.  New Error-Types and Error-Values

In Section 5.2, new PCEP error codes are de’¼üned for WSON RWA errors. IANA has made the
[PCEP-
following allocations in the "PCEP-ERROR Object Error Types and Values" subregistry
NUMBERS]
:

Error-Type Meaning

Error-value

27

WSON RWA error

0: Unassigned

1: Insu’¼ācient memory

Reference

RFC 8780

RFC 8780

2: RWA computation not supported

RFC 8780

3: Syntactical encoding error

RFC 8780

4-255: Unassigned

RFC 8780

Table 11

8.12.  New Subobjects for the Exclude Route Object

The "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry contains a subregistry titled
. Per Section 4.4.1, IANA has added the following subobjects
"XRO Subobjects"
that can be carried in the XRO:

[PCEP-NUMBERS]

Value Description

Reference

Optical Interface Class List

RFC 8780

Client Signal Information

RFC 8780

8

9

Table 12

8.13.  New Subobjects for the Include Route Object

The "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry contains a subregistry titled
"IRO Subobjects"
that can be carried in the IRO:

. Per Section 4.4.2, IANA has added the following subobjects

[PCEP-NUMBERS]

Value Description

Reference

Optical Interface Class List

RFC 8780

Client Signal Information

RFC 8780

8

9

Table 13

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

8.14.  Request for Updated Note for LMP TE Link Object Class Type

The "TE_LINK Object Class type name space (Value 11)" registry was created for the Link
Management Protocol (LMP)
following note at the top of the "TE_LINK Object Class type name space (Value 11)" registry
PARAM]

. As discussed in Section 4.3.1, IANA has added the

[RFC4204]

:

[LMP-

These values have additional usage for the Link Identi’¼üer Type ’¼üeld.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3209]

[RFC3630]

[RFC5329]

[RFC5440]

[RFC6205]

[RFC7570]

[RFC7579]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Awduche, D., Berger, L., Gan, D., Li, T., Srinivasan, V., and G. Swallow "RSVP-TE:
Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels" RFC 3209 DOI 10.17487/RFC3209
December 2001,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3209>

.

,

,

Katz, D., Kompella, K., and D. Yeung "Tra’¼āc Engineering (TE) Extensions to
,
<https://
OSPF Version 2" RFC 3630 DOI 10.17487/RFC3630
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3630>

, September 2003,

,

.

,

Ishiguro, K., Manral, V., Davey, A., and A. Lindem, Ed. "Tra’¼āc Engineering
Extensions to OSPF Version 3" RFC 5329 DOI 10.17487/RFC5329
2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5329>

, September

,

,

.

,

,
Vasseur, JP., Ed. and JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)
,
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

,

.

, March 2009,

Otani, T., Ed. and D. Li, Ed. "Generalized Labels for Lambda-Switch-Capable
,
(LSC) Label Switching Routers" RFC 6205 DOI 10.17487/RFC6205
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6205>

, March 2011,

,
.

,

Margaria, C., Ed., Martinelli, G., Balls, S., and B. Wright "Label Switched Path
(LSP) Attribute in the Explicit Route Object (ERO)" RFC 7570 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7570

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7570>

, July 2015,

,

.

,

Bernstein, G., Ed., Lee, Y., Ed., Li, D., Imajuku, W., and J. Han "General Network
Element Constraint Encoding for GMPLS-Controlled Networks" RFC 7579 DOI
10.17487/RFC7579

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7579>

, June 2015,

,

,

.

,

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

[RFC7581]

[RFC7688]

[RFC7689]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8253]

[RFC8779]

Bernstein, G., Ed., Lee, Y., Ed., Li, D., Imajuku, W., and J. Han "Routing and
Wavelength Assignment Information Encoding for Wavelength Switched Optical
Networks" RFC 7581 DOI 10.17487/RFC7581
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7581>

<https://www.rfc-

, June 2015,

,

.

Lee, Y., Ed. and G. Bernstein, Ed. "GMPLS OSPF Enhancement for Signal and
Network Element Compatibility for Wavelength Switched Optical Networks"
RFC 7688 DOI 10.17487/RFC7688
info/rfc7688>

, November 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

,

.

,

Bernstein, G., Ed., Xu, S., Lee, Y., Ed., Martinelli, G., and H. Harai "Signaling
Extensions for Wavelength Switched Optical Networks" RFC 7689 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7689

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7689>

, November 2015,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Lopez, D., Gonzalez de Dios, O., Wu, Q., and D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
,
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

, October 2017,

<https://

,

.

,

Margaria, C., Ed., Gonzalez de Dios, O., Ed., and F. Zhang, Ed. "Path Computation
Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for GMPLS" RFC 8779 DOI
10.17487/RFC8779

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8779>

, July 2020,

,

,

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

[LMP-PARAM]

[PCEP-LS]

,

IANA "Link Management Protocol (LMP) Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/lmp-parameters/>

,

.

Lee, Y., Zheng, H., Ceccarelli, D., Wang, W., Park, P., and B. Yoon "PCEP Extension
for Distribution of Link-State and TE information for Optical Networks" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-lee-pce-pcep-ls-optical-09
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-lee-pce-pcep-ls-optical-09>

,
<https://

, 9 March 2020,

,

.

,

[PCEP-NUMBERS]

IANA "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" <https://

,

,

[RFC3471]

[RFC4203]

[RFC4204]

www.iana.org/assignments/pcep/>

.

,

Berger, L., Ed. "Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling
Functional Description" RFC 3471 DOI 10.17487/RFC3471
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3471>

, January 2003,

,

,

.

Kompella, K., Ed. and Y. Rekhter, Ed. "OSPF Extensions in Support of
Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)" RFC 4203 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4203

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4203>

, October 2005,

,

.

,

Lang, J., Ed. "Link Management Protocol (LMP)" RFC 4204 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4204

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4204>

, October 2005,

.

,

,

,

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

[RFC4655]

[RFC5420]

[RFC5521]

[RFC6163]

[RFC6566]

[RFC7446]

[RFC7449]

[RFC8126]

Farrel, A., Vasseur, J.-P., and J. Ash "A Path Computation Element (PCE)-Based
Architecture" RFC 4655 DOI 10.17487/RFC4655
,
editor.org/info/rfc4655>
.

, August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Farrel, A., Ed., Papadimitriou, D., Vasseur, JP., and A. Ayyangar "Encoding of
Attributes for MPLS LSP Establishment Using Resource Reservation Protocol
Tra’¼āc Engineering (RSVP-TE)" RFC 5420 DOI 10.17487/RFC5420
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5420>
.

,

, February 2009,

Oki, E., Takeda, T., and A. Farrel "Extensions to the Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) for Route Exclusions" RFC 5521 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5521

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5521>

, April 2009,

,

,

.

,

Lee, Y., Ed., Bernstein, G., Ed., and W. Imajuku "Framework for GMPLS and Path
Computation Element (PCE) Control of Wavelength Switched Optical Networks
(WSONs)" RFC 6163 DOI 10.17487/RFC6163
editor.org/info/rfc6163>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2011,

,

.

,

,

Lee, Y., Ed., Bernstein, G., Ed., Li, D., and G. Martinelli "A Framework for the
Control of Wavelength Switched Optical Networks (WSONs) with Impairments"
, March 2012,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 6566 DOI 10.17487/RFC6566
rfc6566>

,
.

,

,

Lee, Y., Ed., Bernstein, G., Ed., Li, D., and W. Imajuku "Routing and Wavelength
Assignment Information Model for Wavelength Switched Optical Networks"
RFC 7446 DOI 10.17487/RFC7446
info/rfc7446>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2015,

,

.

,

,

Lee, Y., Ed., Bernstein, G., Ed., Martensson, J., Takeda, T., Tsuritani, T., and O.
Gonzalez de Dios "Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP)
Requirements for Wavelength Switched Optical Network (WSON) Routing and
Wavelength Assignment" RFC 7449 DOI 10.17487/RFC7449
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7449>

, February 2015,

,

,

.

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
Kaduk

,
 for many helpful comments that greatly improved the contents of this document.

Adrian Farrel Julien Meuric Dhruv Dhody

, and

Benjamin

,

Contributors

Fatai Zhang
Huawei Technologies
Email:

 zhangfatai@huawei.com

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8780

PCEP Extension for WSON RWA

July 2020

Cyril Margaria
Nokia Siemens Networks
St. Martin Strasse 76
81541 Munich
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49 89 5159 16934
 cyril.margaria@nsn.com

Oscar Gonzalez de Dios
Telefonica Investigacion y Desarrollo
C/ Emilio Vargas 6
28043 Madrid
Spain
Phone:
Email:

 +34 91 3374013
 ogondio@tid.es

Greg Bernstein
Grotto Networking
Fremont CA
,
United States of America
 +1 510 573 2237
Phone:
Email:
 gregb@grotto-networking.com

Authors' Addresses

Young Lee (
’┐Į’┐Į’┐Į’┐Į’┐Į’┐Į
)
Samsung Electronics
Email:

 younglee.tx@gmail.com

)

’┐Į’┐Į’┐Į’┐Į’┐Į’┐Į

Ramon Casellas, Editor (
CTTC
Carl Friedrich Gauss 7
PMT Ed B4 Av.
08860 Castelldefels Barcelona
Spain
Phone:
Email:

 +34 936452916
 ramon.casellas@cttc.es

Lee & Casellas

Standards Track

Page 26

