Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8860
3550, 3551
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
M. Westerlund
Ericsson

C. Perkins
University of Glasgow

J. Lennox
8x8 / Jitsi

RFC 8860
Sending Multiple Types of Media in a Single RTP
Session

Abstract

This document speciﬁes how an RTP session can contain RTP streams with media from multiple
media types such as audio, video, and text. This has been restricted by the RTP speciﬁcations
(RFCs 3550 and 3551), and thus this document updates RFCs 3550 and 3551 to enable this
behaviour for applications that satisfy the applicability for using multiple media types in a single
RTP session.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8860

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Background and Motivation

4.  Applicability

5.  Using Multiple Media Types in a Single RTP Session

5.1.  Allowing Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

5.2.  Demultiplexing Media Types within an RTP Session

5.3.  Per-SSRC Media Type Restrictions

5.4.  RTCP Considerations

6.  Extension Considerations

6.1.  RTP Retransmission Payload Format

6.2.  RTP Payload Format for Generic FEC

6.3.  RTP Payload Format for Redundant Audio

7.  Signalling

8.  Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

1.  Introduction

[RFC3550]

 was designed to use separate RTP sessions to

The Real-time Transport Protocol
transport diﬀerent types of media. This implies that diﬀerent transport-layer ﬂows are used for
diﬀerent RTP streams. For example, a video conferencing application might send audio and
video traﬃc RTP ﬂows on separate UDP ports. With increased use of network address/port
translation, ﬁrewalls, and other middleboxes, it is, however, becoming diﬃcult to establish
multiple transport-layer ﬂows between endpoints. Hence, there is pressure to reduce the number
of concurrent transport ﬂows used by RTP applications.

 and

[RFC3550]

This memo updates
RTP session in certain cases, thereby reducing the number of transport-layer ﬂows that are
needed. It makes no changes to RTP behaviour when using multiple RTP streams containing
media of the same type (e.g., multiple audio streams or multiple video streams) in a single RTP
session. However,

 provides important clariﬁcations to RTP behaviour in that case.

 to allow multiple media types to be sent in a single

[RFC3551]

[RFC8108]

This memo is structured as follows. Section 2 deﬁnes terminology. Section 3 further describes the
background to, and motivation for, this memo; Section 4 describes the scenarios where this
memo is applicable. Section 5 discusses issues arising from the base RTP and RTP Control
Protocol (RTCP) speciﬁcations
single RTP session, while Section 6 considers the impact of RTP extensions. We discuss signalling
in Section 7. Finally, security considerations are discussed in Section 8.

 when using multiple types of media in a

[RFC3550] [RFC3551]

2.  Terminology

The terms "encoded stream", "endpoint", "media source", "RTP session", and "RTP stream" are
. We also deﬁne the following terms:
used as deﬁned in

[RFC7656]

Media Type:

The general type of media data used by a real-time application. The media type
corresponds to the value used in the <media> ﬁeld of a Session Description Protocol (SDP)
"m=" line. The media types deﬁned at the time of this writing are "audio", "video", "text",
"image", "application", and "message"

[RFC4566] [RFC6466]

.

Quality of Service (QoS):

Network mechanisms that are intended to ensure that the packets

within a ﬂow or with a speciﬁc marking are transported with certain properties.

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

3.  Background and Motivation

RTP was designed to support multimedia sessions, containing multiple types of media sent
simultaneously, by using multiple transport-layer ﬂows. The existence of network address
translators, ﬁrewalls, and other middleboxes complicates this, however, since a mechanism is
needed to ensure that all the transport-layer ﬂows needed by the application can be established.
This has three consequences:

1.

increased delay to establish a complete session, since each of the transport-layer ﬂows needs
to be negotiated and established;

2.

increased state and resource consumption in the middleboxes that can lead to unexpected
behaviour when middlebox resource limits are reached; and

3.

increased risk that a subset of the transport-layer ﬂows will fail to be established, thus
preventing the application from communicating.

Using fewer transport-layer ﬂows can hence be seen to reduce the risk of communication failure
and can lead to improved reliability and performance.

One of the beneﬁts of using multiple transport-layer ﬂows is that it makes it easy to use network-
layer QoS mechanisms to give diﬀerentiated performance for diﬀerent ﬂows. However, we note
that many applications that use RTP don't use network QoS features and don't expect or desire
any separation in network treatment of their media packets, independent of whether they are
audio, video, or text. When an application has no such desire, it doesn't need to provide a
transport ﬂow structure that simpliﬁes ﬂow-based QoS.

Given the above issues, it might seem appropriate for RTP-based applications to send all their
RTP streams bundled into one RTP session, running over a single transport-layer ﬂow. However,
this is prohibited by the RTP speciﬁcations
makes certain assumptions that can be incompatible with sending multiple media types in a
single RTP session. Speciﬁcally, the RTCP timing rules assume that all RTP media ﬂows in a single
RTP session have broadly similar RTCP reporting and feedback requirements, which can be
problematic when diﬀerent types of media are multiplexed together. Various RTP extensions also
make assumptions about Synchronisation Source (SSRC) use and RTCP reporting that are
incompatible with sending diﬀerent media types in a single RTP session.

, because the design of RTP

[RFC3550] [RFC3551]

This memo updates
media type in certain circumstances and gives guidance on when it is safe to send multiple
media types in a single RTP session.

 to allow RTP sessions to contain more than one

[RFC3551]

[RFC3550]

 and

4.  Applicability

This speciﬁcation has limited applicability, and anyone intending to use it needs to ensure that
their application and use case meet the following criteria:

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

Equal treatment of media:

The use of a single RTP session normally results in similar network

treatment for all types of media used within the session. Applications that require
signiﬁcantly diﬀerent network QoS or RTCP conﬁguration for diﬀerent RTP streams are better
suited to sending those RTP streams in separate RTP sessions, using separate transport-layer
ﬂows for each, since that method provides greater ﬂexibility. Further guidance on how to
provide diﬀerential treatment for some media streams is given in

[RFC8872]

[RFC7657]

 and

.

Compatible RTCP behaviour:

The RTCP timing rules enforce a single RTCP reporting interval for

all participants in an RTP session. Flows with very diﬀerent media sending rates or RTCP
feedback requirements cannot be multiplexed together, since this leads to either excessive or
insuﬃcient RTCP for some ﬂows, depending on how the RTCP session bandwidth, and hence
the reporting interval, are conﬁgured. For example, it is likely infeasible to ﬁnd a single RTCP
conﬁguration that simultaneously suits both a low-rate audio ﬂow with no feedback and a
high-quality video ﬂow with sophisticated RTCP-based feedback. Thus, combining these into a
single RTP session is diﬃcult and/or inadvisable.

Signalled support:

The extensions deﬁned in this memo are not compatible with unmodiﬁed

[RFC3550]

. Their use requires signalling and mutual

endpoints that are compatible with
agreement by all participants within an RTP session. This requirement can be a problem for
signalling solutions that can't negotiate with all participants. For declarative signalling
solutions, mandating that the session use multiple media types in one RTP session can be a
way of attempting to ensure that all participants in the RTP session follow the requirement.
However, for signalling solutions that lack methods for enforcing a requirement that a
receiver support a speciﬁc feature, this can still cause issues.

Consistent support for multiparty RTP sessions:

If it is desired to send multiple types of media

in a multiparty RTP session, then all participants in that session need to support sending
multiple types of media in a single RTP session. It is not possible, in the general case, to
implement a gateway that can interconnect an endpoint that uses multiple types of media
sent using separate RTP sessions with one or more endpoints that send multiple types of
media in a single RTP session.

One reason for this is that the same SSRC value can safely be used for diﬀerent streams in
multiple RTP sessions, but when collapsed to a single RTP session there is an SSRC collision.
This would not be an issue, since SSRC collision detection will resolve the conﬂict, except that
some RTP payload formats and extensions use matching SSRCs to identify related ﬂows and
will break when a single RTP session is used.

A middlebox that remaps SSRC values when combining multiple RTP sessions into one also
needs to be aware of all possible RTCP packet types that might be used, so that it can remap
the SSRC values in those packets. This is impossible to do without restricting the set of RTCP
packet types that can be used to those that are known by the middlebox. Such a middlebox
might also have diﬃculty due to diﬀerences in conﬁgured RTCP bandwidth and other
parameters between the RTP sessions.

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

Finally, the use of a middlebox that translates SSRC values can negatively impact the
possibility of loop detection, as SSRC/CSRC (Contributing Source) can't be used to detect the
loops; instead, some other RTP stream or media source identity namespace that is common
across all interconnected parts is needed.

Ability to operate with limited payload type space:

An RTP session has only a single 7-bit

payload type space for all its payload type numbers. Some applications might ﬁnd this space
to be limiting (i.e., overly restrictive) when using diﬀerent media types and RTP payload
formats within a single RTP session.

Avoidance of incompatible extensions:

Some RTP and RTCP extensions rely on the existence of

multiple RTP sessions and relate RTP streams between sessions. Others report on particular
media types and cannot be used with other media types. Applications that send multiple types
of media into a single RTP session need to avoid such extensions.

5.  Using Multiple Media Types in a Single RTP Session

This section deﬁnes what needs to be done or avoided to make an RTP session with multiple
media types function without issues.

5.1.  Allowing Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

Section 5.2 of "RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Applications" [RFC3550]

 states:

For example, in a teleconference composed of audio and video media encoded
separately, each medium
destination transport address.

 be carried in a separate RTP session with its own

SHOULD

Separate audio and video streams
demultiplexed based on the payload type or SSRC ﬁelds.

SHOULD NOT

 be carried in a single RTP session and

This speciﬁcation changes both of these sentences. The ﬁrst sentence is changed to:

For example, in a teleconference composed of audio and video media encoded
separately, each medium
destination transport address, unless the guidelines speciﬁed in [RFC8860] are followed
and the application meets the applicability constraints.

 be carried in a separate RTP session with its own

SHOULD

The second sentence is changed to:

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

Separate audio and video media sources
unless the guidelines speciﬁed in [RFC8860] are followed.

SHOULD NOT

 be carried in a single RTP session,

The second paragraph of
Control" [RFC3551]
 says:

Section 6 of "RTP Proﬁle for Audio and Video Conferences with Minimal

The payload types currently deﬁned in this proﬁle are assigned to exactly one of three
categories or media types: audio only, video only and those combining audio and video.
The media types are marked in Tables 4 and 5 as "A", "V" and "AV", respectively. Payload
 be interleaved or multiplexed within a single
types of diﬀerent media types
RTP session, but multiple RTP sessions
 be used in parallel to send multiple media
types. An RTP source
 change payload types within the same media type during a
session. See the section "Multiplexing RTP Sessions" of RFC 3550 for additional
explanation.

SHALL NOT

MAY

MAY

" under certain conditions.
This speciﬁcation's purpose is to override the above-listed "
Thus, this sentence also has to be changed to allow for multiple media types' payload types in the
same session. The sentence containing "

" in the above paragraph is changed to:

SHALL NOT

SHALL NOT

Payload types of diﬀerent media types
a single RTP session unless [RFC8860] is used and the application conforms to the
applicability constraints. Multiple RTP sessions
media types.

SHALL NOT

 be interleaved or multiplexed within

 be used in parallel to send multiple

MAY

5.2.  Demultiplexing Media Types within an RTP Session

When receiving packets from a transport-layer ﬂow, an endpoint will ﬁrst separate the RTP and
RTCP packets from the non-RTP packets and pass them to the RTP/RTCP protocol handler. The
RTP and RTCP packets are then demultiplexed into the diﬀerent RTP streams based on their SSRC.
For each RTP stream, incoming RTCP packets are processed, and the RTP payload type is used to
select the appropriate media decoder. This process remains the same irrespective of whether
multiple media types are sent in a single RTP session or not.

As explained below, it is important to note that the RTP payload type is never used to distinguish
RTP streams. The RTP packets are demultiplexed into RTP streams based on their SSRC; the RTP
payload type is then used to select the correct media-decoding pathway for each RTP stream.

5.3.  Per-SSRC Media Type Restrictions

An SSRC in an RTP session can change between media formats of the same type, subject to
certain restrictions
 change its media type during its lifetime. For
example, an SSRC can change between diﬀerent audio formats, but it cannot start sending audio

[RFC7160]

MUST NOT

, but

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

and then change to sending video. The lifetime of an SSRC ends when an RTCP BYE packet for
that SSRC is sent or when it ceases transmission for long enough that it times out for the other
participants in the session.

The main motivation is that a given SSRC has its own RTP timestamp and sequence number
spaces. The same way that you can't send two encoded streams of audio with the same SSRC, you
can't send one encoded audio and one encoded video stream with the same SSRC. Each encoded
stream, when made into an RTP stream, needs to have sole control over the sequence number
and timestamp space. If not, one would not be able to detect packet loss for that particular
encoded stream, nor could one easily determine which clock rate a particular SSRC's timestamp
will increase with. For additional arguments regarding why multiplexing of multiple media
sources that is based on RTP payload type doesn't work, see

[RFC8872]
.

Within an RTP session where multiple media types have been conﬁgured for use, an SSRC can
only send one type of media during its lifetime (i.e., it can switch between diﬀerent audio codecs,
since those are both the same type of media, but it cannot switch between audio and video).
Diﬀerent SSRCs
 be used for the diﬀerent media sources, the same way multiple media
sources of the same media type already have to do. The payload type will inform a receiver
which media type the SSRC is being used for. Thus, the payload type
the payload conﬁgurations, independent of the media type that is used in the RTP session.

 be unique across all of

MUST

MUST

5.4.  RTCP Considerations

When sending multiple types of media that have diﬀerent rates in a single RTP session, endpoints
MUST

 follow the guidelines for handling RTCP as provided in

Section 7 of [RFC8108]
.

6.  Extension Considerations

This section outlines known issues and incompatibilities with RTP and RTCP extensions when
multiple media types are used in a single RTP session. Future extensions to RTP and RTCP need to
consider, and document, any potential incompatibilities.

6.1.  RTP Retransmission Payload Format

The RTP retransmission payload format
or session-multiplexed mode.

[RFC4588]

 can operate in either SSRC-multiplexed mode

In SSRC-multiplexed mode, retransmitted RTP packets are sent in the same RTP session as the
original packets but use a diﬀerent SSRC with the same RTCP Source Description (SDES) CNAME.
If each endpoint sends only a single original RTP stream and a single retransmission RTP stream
in the session, this is suﬃcient. If an endpoint sends multiple original and retransmission RTP
streams, as would occur when sending multiple media types in a single RTP session, then each
original RTP stream and the retransmission RTP stream have to be associated using heuristics. By
having retransmission requests outstanding for only one SSRC not yet mapped, a receiver can
determine the binding between the original and retransmission RTP streams. Another

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

alternative is the use of diﬀerent RTP payload types, allowing the signalled "apt" (associated
payload type) parameter
 of the RTP retransmission payload format to be used to
associate retransmitted and original packets.

[RFC4588]

Session-multiplexed mode sends the retransmission RTP stream in a separate RTP session to the
original RTP stream, but using the same SSRC for each, with the association being done by
matching SSRCs between the two sessions. This is unaﬀected by the use of multiple media types
in a single RTP session, since each media type will be sent using a diﬀerent SSRC in the original
RTP session, and the same SSRCs can be used in the retransmission session, allowing the streams
to be associated. This can be signalled using SDP with the BUNDLE grouping extension
[RFC8843]
and the Flow Identiﬁcation (FID) grouping extension
each "m=" line to only be included in a single FID group, but the RTP retransmission payload
format uses FID groups to indicate the "m=" lines that form an original and retransmission pair.
Accordingly, when using the BUNDLE extension to allow multiple media types to be sent in a
single RTP session, each original media source ("m=" line) that is retransmitted needs a
corresponding "m=" line in the retransmission RTP session. If there are multiple media lines for
retransmission, these media lines will form an independent BUNDLE group from the BUNDLE
group with the source streams.

. These SDP extensions require

[RFC5888]

An example SDP fragment showing the grouping structures is provided in Figure 1. This example
is not legal SDP, and only the most important attributes have been left in place. Note that this SDP
is not an initial BUNDLE oﬀer. As can be seen in this example, there are two bundle groups -- one
for the source RTP session and one for the retransmissions. Then, each of the media sources is
grouped with its retransmission ﬂow using FID, resulting in three more groupings.

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

       a=group:BUNDLE foo bar fiz
       a=group:BUNDLE zoo kelp glo
       a=group:FID foo zoo
       a=group:FID bar kelp
       a=group:FID fiz glo
       m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 0
       a=mid:foo
       a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
       m=video 10000 RTP/AVP 31
       a=mid:bar
       a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
       m=video 10000 RTP/AVP 31
       a=mid:fiz
       a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
       m=audio 40000 RTP/AVPF 99
       a=rtpmap:99 rtx/90000
       a=fmtp:99 apt=0;rtx-time=3000
       a=mid:zoo
       m=video 40000 RTP/AVPF 100
       a=rtpmap:100 rtx/90000
       a=fmtp:199 apt=31;rtx-time=3000
       a=mid:kelp
       m=video 40000 RTP/AVPF 100
       a=rtpmap:100 rtx/90000
       a=fmtp:199 apt=31;rtx-time=3000
       a=mid:glo

Figure 1: SDP Example of Session-Multiplexed RTP Retransmission

6.2.  RTP Payload Format for Generic FEC

The RTP payload format for generic Forward Error Correction (FEC), as deﬁned in
(and its predecessor,
send the FEC combined with the original RTP stream as a redundant encoding

[RFC5109]
), can either send the FEC stream as a separate RTP stream or

[RFC2733]

[RFC2198]

.

When sending FEC as a separate stream, the RTP payload format for generic FEC requires that
FEC stream to be sent in a separate RTP session to the original stream, using the same SSRC, with
the FEC stream being associated by matching the SSRC between sessions. The RTP session used
for the original streams can include multiple RTP streams, and those RTP streams can use
multiple media types. The repair session only needs one RTP payload type to indicate FEC data,
irrespective of the number of FEC streams sent, since the SSRC is used to associate the FEC
streams with the original streams. Hence, it is
 that the FEC stream use the
"application/ulpfec" media type in the case of support for
"application/ parityfec" media type in the case of support for
RECOMMENDED
the "audio/ulpfec" and "video/ulpfec" payload formats for a single RTP session containing both
audio and video ﬂows), since this (1) unnecessarily uses up RTP payload type values and (2) adds
no value for demultiplexing because there might be multiple streams of the same media type).

, to send FEC streams using media-speciﬁc payload format names (e.g., using both

. It is legal, but

RECOMMENDED

[RFC2733]

[RFC5109]

 and the

NOT

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

The combination of an original RTP session using multiple media types with an associated
generic FEC session can be signalled using SDP with the BUNDLE extension
case, the RTP session carrying the FEC streams will be its own BUNDLE group. The "m=" line for
each original stream and the "m=" line for the corresponding FEC stream are grouped using the
SDP Grouping Framework, using either the
compatibility, the FEC grouping
[RFC4756]
retransmission with session-based multiplexing as discussed in Section 6.1.

. This is similar to the situation that arises for RTP

FEC-FR grouping [RFC5956]

 or, for backwards

[RFC8843]

. In this

source-speciﬁc media attributes speciﬁcation [RFC5576]

 deﬁnes an SDP extension (the "FEC"
The
semantic of the "ssrc-group" attribute) to signal FEC relationships between multiple RTP streams
within a single RTP session. This cannot be used with generic FEC, since the FEC repair packets
need to have the same SSRC value as the source packets being protected. There existed a proposal
(now abandoned) for an Uneven Level Protection (ULP) extension to enable transmission of the
FEC RTP streams within the same RTP session as the source stream

.
[FEC-Src-Multiplexing]

When the FEC is sent as a redundant encoding, the considerations in Section 6.3 apply.

6.3.  RTP Payload Format for Redundant Audio

The RTP payload format for redundant audio
can also be used along with the generic FEC payload format to send original and repair data in
the same RTP packets. Both are compatible with RTP sessions containing multiple media types.

 can be used to protect audio streams. It

[RFC2198]

This payload format requires each diﬀerent redundant encoding to use a diﬀerent RTP payload
type number. When used with generic FEC in sessions that contain multiple media types, this
requires each media type to use a diﬀerent payload type for the FEC stream. For example, if
audio and text are sent in a single RTP session with generic ULP FEC sent as a redundant
encoding for each, then payload types need to be assigned for FEC using the audio/ulpfec and
text/ ulpfec payload formats. If multiple original payload types are used in the session, diﬀerent
redundant payload types need to be allocated for each one. This has potential to rapidly exhaust
the available RTP payload type numbers.

7.  Signalling

Establishing a single RTP session using multiple media types requires signalling. This signalling
has to:

1.

ensure that any participant in the RTP session is aware that this is an RTP session with
multiple media types;

2.

ensure that the payload types in use in the RTP session are using unique values, with no
overlap between the media types;

3.

ensure that RTP session-level parameters -- for example, the RTCP RR and RS bandwidth
modiﬁers
extensions in use, and any security parameters -- are consistent across the session; and

, the RTP/AVPF trr-int parameter

, transport protocol, RTCP

[RFC3556]

[RFC4585]

4.

ensure that RTP and RTCP functions that can be bound to a particular media type are reused
where possible, rather than conﬁguring multiple code points for the same thing.

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

When using SDP signalling, the BUNDLE extension
containing multiple media types.

[RFC8843]

 is used to signal RTP sessions

8.  Security Considerations

RTP provides a range of strong security mechanisms that can be used to secure sessions
[RFC7201] [RFC7202]
. The majority of these are independent of the type of media sent in the RTP
session; however, it is important to check that the security mechanism chosen is compatible with
all types of media sent within the session.

Sending multiple media types in a single RTP session will generally require that all use the same
security mechanism, whereas media sent using diﬀerent RTP sessions can be secured in diﬀerent
ways. When diﬀerent media types have diﬀerent security requirements, it might be necessary to
send them using separate RTP sessions to meet those diﬀerent requirements. This can have
signiﬁcant costs in terms of resource usage, session setup time, etc.

9.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3551]

[RFC8108]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8843]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
,
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

.

,

,

,

Schulzrinne, H. and S. Casner "RTP Proﬁle for Audio and Video Conferences
, July 2003,
,
with Minimal Control" STD 65 RFC 3551 DOI 10.17487/RFC3551
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3551>

,
,

,

Lennox, J., Westerlund, M., Wu, Q., and C. Perkins "Sending Multiple RTP
,
Streams in a Single RTP Session" RFC 8108 DOI 10.17487/RFC8108
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8108>

,

.

,

, March 2017,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Holmberg, C., Alvestrand, H., and C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8843 DOI 10.17487/RFC8843
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8843>

,
,

,

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

10.2.  Informative References

[FEC-Src-Multiplexing]

,

Lennox, J. "Supporting Source-Multiplexing of the Real-Time
Transport Protocol (RTP) Payload for Generic Forward Error Correction" Work
,
in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-lennox-payload-ulp-ssrc-mux-00
, 18 February
2013,
.

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-lennox-payload-ulp-ssrc-mux-00>

,

[RFC2198]

[RFC2733]

[RFC3556]

[RFC4566]

[RFC4585]

[RFC4588]

[RFC4756]

[RFC5109]

[RFC5576]

[RFC5888]

Perkins, C., Kouvelas, I., Hodson, O., Hardman, V., Handley, M., Bolot, J.C., Vega-
Garcia, A., and S. Fosse-Parisis "RTP Payload for Redundant Audio Data" RFC
2198 DOI 10.17487/RFC2198
,
rfc2198>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 1997,

,

,

.

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An RTP Payload Format for Generic Forward
Error Correction" RFC 2733 DOI 10.17487/RFC2733
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2733>

, December 1999,

<https://

,

,

.

,

,

Casner, S. "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Bandwidth Modiﬁers for RTP
Control Protocol (RTCP) Bandwidth" RFC 3556 DOI 10.17487/RFC3556
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3556>

,

,

.

, July 2003,

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Ott, J., Wenger, S., Sato, N., Burmeister, C., and J. Rey "Extended RTP Proﬁle for
Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" RFC
,
4585 DOI 10.17487/RFC4585
rfc4585>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2006,

,

.

,

Rey, J., Leon, D., Miyazaki, A., Varsa, V., and R. Hakenberg "RTP Retransmission
Payload Format" RFC 4588 DOI 10.17487/RFC4588
<https://www.rfc-
.
editor.org/info/rfc4588>

, July 2006,

,

,

,

,

Li, A. "Forward Error Correction Grouping Semantics in Session Description
Protocol" RFC 4756 DOI 10.17487/RFC4756
editor.org/info/rfc4756>

, November 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Li, A., Ed. "RTP Payload Format for Generic Forward Error Correction" RFC
, December 2007,
,
5109 DOI 10.17487/RFC5109
rfc5109>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

.

,

,
Lennox, J., Ott, J., and T. Schierl "Source-Speciﬁc Media Attributes in the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 5576 DOI 10.17487/RFC5576
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5576>

, June 2009,

,

,

.

,
Camarillo, G. and H. Schulzrinne "The Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
Grouping Framework" RFC 5888 DOI 10.17487/RFC5888
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5888>

, June 2010,

,

<https://

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

[RFC5956]

[RFC6466]

[RFC7160]

[RFC7201]

[RFC7202]

[RFC7656]

[RFC7657]

[RFC8872]

,

Begen, A. "Forward Error Correction Grouping Semantics in the Session
Description Protocol" RFC 5956 DOI 10.17487/RFC5956
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5956>

, September 2010,

,

,

.

,

Salgueiro, G. "IANA Registration of the 'image' Media Type for the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 6466 DOI 10.17487/RFC6466
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6466>

,

,

.

, December 2011,

Petit-Huguenin, M. and G. Zorn, Ed. "Support for Multiple Clock Rates in an RTP
Session" RFC 7160 DOI 10.17487/RFC7160
editor.org/info/rfc7160>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2014,

,

,

,

.

Westerlund, M. and C. Perkins "Options for Securing RTP Sessions" RFC 7201
DOI 10.17487/RFC7201
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7201>

, April 2014,

,

,

,

Perkins, C. and M. Westerlund "Securing the RTP Framework: Why RTP Does
Not Mandate a Single Media Security Solution" RFC 7202 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7202

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7202>

, April 2014,

,

,

.

,

Lennox, J., Gross, K., Nandakumar, S., Salgueiro, G., and B. Burman, Ed. "A
Taxonomy of Semantics and Mechanisms for Real-Time Transport Protocol
(RTP) Sources" RFC 7656 DOI 10.17487/RFC7656
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7656>

, November 2015,

,

,

.

,

,
Black, D., Ed. and P. Jones "Diﬀerentiated Services (Diﬀserv) and Real-Time
,
Communication" RFC 7657 DOI 10.17487/RFC7657
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7657>

, November 2015,

<https://

,

.

Westerlund, M., Burman, B., Perkins, C., Alvestrand, H., and R. Even "Guidelines
,
for Using the Multiplexing Features of RTP to Support Multiple Media Streams"
, January 2021,
RFC 8872 DOI 10.17487/RFC8872
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8872>

,
.

,

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Asveren Warren Kumari

, and

Christer Holmberg Gunnar Hellström Charles Eckel Tolga

,
 for their feedback on this document.

Meral Shirazipour

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Magnus Westerlund
Ericsson
Torshamnsgatan 23
164 80 Stockholm
SE-
Sweden
Email:

 magnus.westerlund@ericsson.com

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8860

Multiple Media Types in an RTP Session

January 2021

Colin Perkins
University of Glasgow
School of Computing Science
Glasgow
G12 8QQ
United Kingdom
Email:

 csp@csperkins.org

Jonathan Lennox
8x8, Inc. / Jitsi
Jersey City NJ 07302
,
United States of America
Email:

 jonathan.lennox@8x8.com

Westerlund, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

