Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8987
Standards Track
February 2021
2070-1721

I. Farrer
Deutsche Telekom AG

N. Kottapalli
Benu Networks

M. Hunek
Technical University of Liberec

R. Patterson
Sky UK Ltd.

RFC 8987
DHCPv6 Preﬁx Delegating Relay Requirements

Abstract

This document describes operational problems that are known to occur when using DHCPv6
relays with preﬁx delegation. These problems can prevent successful delegation and result in
routing failures. To address these problems, this document provides necessary functional
requirements for operating DHCPv6 relays with preﬁx delegation.

It is recommended that any network operator using DHCPv6 preﬁx delegation with relays ensure
that these requirements are followed on their networks.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8987

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Farrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8987

DHCPv6 PD Relay

February 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

2.1.  General

2.2.  Topology

2.3.  Requirements Language

3.  Problems Observed with Existing Delegating Relay Implementations

3.1.  DHCP Messages Not Being Forwarded by the Delegating Relay

3.2.  Delegating Relay Loss of State on Reboot

3.3.  Multiple Delegated Preﬁxes for a Single Client

3.4.  Dropping Messages from Devices with Duplicate MAC Addresses and DUIDs

3.5.  Forwarding Loops between Client and Relay

4.  Requirements for Delegating Relays

4.1.  General Requirements

4.2.  Routing Requirements

4.3.  Service Continuity Requirements

4.4.  Operational Requirements

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Farrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8987

DHCPv6 PD Relay

February 2021

1.  Introduction

For Internet service providers that oﬀer native IPv6 access with preﬁx delegation to their
customers, a common deployment architecture is to have a DHCPv6 relay agent function located
in the ISP's Layer 3 customer edge device and a separate, centralized DHCPv6 server
infrastructure.
[RFC8415]
functional requirements that the relay needs to fulﬁll to operate deterministically in this
deployment scenario.

 describes the functionality of a DHCPv6 relay, and
 mentions this deployment scenario, but it does not provide details for all of the

Section 19.1.3 of

[RFC8415]

A DHCPv6 relay agent for preﬁx delegation is a function commonly implemented in routing
devices, but implementations vary in their functionality and client/server interworking. This can
result in operational problems such as messages not being forwarded by the relay or
unreachability of the delegated preﬁxes. This document provides a set of requirements for
devices implementing a relay function for use with preﬁx delegation.

The mechanisms for a relay to inject routes (including aggregated ones) on its network-facing
interface based on preﬁxes learned from a server via DHCP preﬁx delegation (DHCP-PD) are out
of scope of the document.

Multi-hop DHCPv6 relaying is not aﬀected. The requirements in this document are solely
applicable to the DHCP relay agent co-located with the ﬁrst-hop router to which the DHCPv6
client requesting the preﬁx is connected, so no changes to any subsequent relays in the path are
needed.

2.  Terminology

2.1.  General

This document uses the terminology deﬁned in
functional elements for preﬁx delegation,
router" as:

[RFC8415]
[RFC8415], Section 4.2

. However, when deﬁning the

 deﬁnes the term "delegating

The router that acts as a DHCP server and responds to requests for delegated preﬁxes.

This document is concerned with deployment scenarios in which the DHCPv6 relay and DHCPv6
server functions are separated, so the term "delegating router" is not used. Instead, a new term is
introduced to describe the relaying function:

Farrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8987

DHCPv6 PD Relay

February 2021

Delegating relay:

A delegating relay acts as an intermediate device, forwarding DHCPv6 messages containing
IA_PD and IAPREFIX options between the client and server. The delegating relay does not
implement a DHCPv6 server function. The delegating relay is also responsible for routing
traﬃc for the delegated preﬁxes.

Where the term "relay" is used on its own within this document, it should be understood to be a
delegating relay unless speciﬁcally stated otherwise.

In CableLabs DOCSIS environments, the Cable Modem Termination System (CMTS) would be
considered a delegating relay with respect to Customer Premises Devices (CPEs) (
,
[DOCSIS_3.1]
Section 5.2.7.2). A Broadband Network Gateway (BNG) in a DSL-based access network may be a
delegating relay if it does not implement a local DHCPv6 server function (

[TR-092]

, Section 4.10).

[RFC8415]

 deﬁnes the "DHCP server" (or "server") as:

A node that responds to requests from clients. It may or may not be on the same link as
the client(s). Depending on its capabilities, if it supports preﬁx delegation it may also
feature the functionality of a delegating router.

This document serves the deployment cases where a DHCPv6 server is not located on the same
link as the client (necessitating the delegating relay). The server supports preﬁx delegation and is
capable of leasing preﬁxes to clients, but it is not responsible for other functions required of a
delegating router, such as managing routes for the delegated preﬁxes.

The term "requesting router" has previously been used to describe the DHCP client requesting
preﬁxes for use. This document adopts the terminology of
 and uses "DHCP client" or
"client" interchangeably for this element.

[RFC8415]

2.2.  Topology

The following diagram shows the deployment topology relevant to this document.

+
|             ------- uplink ------>
|                                       _    ,--,_
|   +--------+       +------------+   _(  `'      )_    +--------+
+---+   PD   |-------| Delegating |--(   Operator   )---| DHCPv6 |
|   | Client |       |    relay   |   `(_ Network_)'    | server |
|   +--------+       +----------- +      `--'`---'      +--------+
|
|             <----- downlink ------
+                 (client facing)
Client
Network
Figure 1: Topology Overview

Farrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8987

DHCPv6 PD Relay

February 2021

The client requests preﬁxes via the downlink interface of the delegating relay. The resulting
preﬁxes will be used for addressing the client network. The delegating relay is responsible for
forwarding DHCP messages, including preﬁx delegation requests and responses between the
client and server. Messages are forwarded from the delegating relay to the server using multicast
or unicast via the operator uplink interface.

The delegating relay provides the operator's Layer 3 edge towards the client and is responsible
for routing traﬃc to and from clients connected to the client network using addresses from the
delegated preﬁxes.

2.3.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Problems Observed with Existing Delegating Relay
Implementations

The following sections of the document describe problems that have been observed with
delegating relay implementations in commercially available devices.

3.1.  DHCP Messages Not Being Forwarded by the Delegating Relay

Delegating relay implementations have been observed not to forward messages between the
client and server. This generally occurs if a client sends a message that is unexpected by the
delegating relay. For example, the delegating relay already has an active PD lease entry for an
existing client on a port. A new client is connected to this port and sends a Solicit message. The
delegating relay then drops the Solicit messages until either it receives a DHCP Release message
from the original client or the existing lease times out. This causes a particular problem when a
client device needs to be replaced due to a failure.

In addition to dropping messages, in some cases, the delegating relay will generate error
messages and send them to the client, e.g., "NoBinding" messages being sent in the event that the
delegating relay does not have an active delegated preﬁx lease.

3.2.  Delegating Relay Loss of State on Reboot

For proper routing of client traﬃc, the delegating relay requires a corresponding routing table
entry for each active preﬁx delegated to a connected client. A delegating relay that does not store
this state persistently across reboots will not be able to forward traﬃc to the client's delegated
leases until the state is reestablished through new DHCP messages.

Farrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8987

DHCPv6 PD Relay

February 2021

3.3.  Multiple Delegated Preﬁxes for a Single Client

[RFC8415]

 allows a client to include more than one instance of OPTION_IA_PD in

DHCPv6
messages in order to request multiple preﬁx delegations by the server. If conﬁgured for this, the
server supplies one (or more) instance of OPTION_IAPREFIX for each received instance of
OPTION_IA_PD, each containing information for a diﬀerent delegated preﬁx.

In some delegating relay implementations, only a single delegated preﬁx per DHCP Unique
Identiﬁer (DUID) is supported. In those cases, only one IPv6 route for one of the delegated
preﬁxes is installed, meaning that other preﬁxes delegated to a client are unreachable.

3.4.  Dropping Messages from Devices with Duplicate MAC Addresses and
DUIDs

It is an operational reality that client devices with duplicate Media Access Control (MAC)
addresses and/or DUIDs exist and have been deployed. In some networks, the operational costs of
locating and swapping out such devices are prohibitive.

Delegating relays have been observed to restrict forwarding client messages originating from
one client DUID to a single interface. In this case, if the same client DUID appears from a second
client on another interface while there is already an active lease, messages originating from the
second client are dropped, causing the second client to be unable to obtain a preﬁx delegation.

It should be noted that in some access networks, the MAC address and/or DUID are used as part
of device identiﬁcation and authentication. In such networks, enforcing uniqueness of the MAC
address and/or DUID is a necessary function and is not considered a problem.

3.5.  Forwarding Loops between Client and Relay

If the client loses information about an active preﬁx lease it has been delegated while the lease
entry and associated route are still active in the delegating relay, then the relay will forward
traﬃc to the client. The client will return this traﬃc to the relay, which is the client's default
gateway (learned via a Router Advertisement (RA)). The loop will continue until either the client
is successfully reprovisioned via DHCP or the lease ages out in the relay.

4.  Requirements for Delegating Relays

To resolve the problems described in Section 3 and to preempt other undesirable behavior, the
following section of the document describes a set of functional requirements for the delegating
relay.

In addition, relay implementers are reminded that
 makes it clear that relays
Section 19 of
forward packets that either contain message codes it may not understand (
[RFC8415]
Section 16 of [RFC8415]
).

) or options that it does not understand (

[RFC8415]

MUST

Farrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8987

DHCPv6 PD Relay

February 2021

4.1.  General Requirements

G-1:

G-2:

G-3:

G-4:

G-5:

G-6:

G-7:

G-8:

G-9:

The delegating relay
MUST
without changing the contents of the message.

 forward messages bidirectionally between the client and server

The relay
delegations may have diﬀerent lifetimes.

MUST

 allow for multiple preﬁxes to be delegated for the same client IA_PD. These

MUST

 allow for multiple preﬁxes (with or without separate IA_PDs) to be

The relay
delegated to a single client connected to a single interface, identiﬁed by its DHCPv6 Client
Identiﬁer (DUID).

A delegating relay may have one or more interfaces on which it acts as a relay, as well as
one or more interfaces on which it does not (for example, in an ISP, it might act as a relay
on all southbound interfaces but not on the northbound interfaces). The relay
allow the same client identiﬁer (DUID) to have active delegated preﬁx leases on more than
one interface simultaneously unless client DUID uniqueness is necessary for the
functioning or security of the network. This is to allow client devices with duplicate DUIDs
to function on separate broadcast domains.

SHOULD

The maximum number of simultaneous preﬁxes delegated to a single client
conﬁgurable.

MUST

 be

MUST

 implement a mechanism to limit the maximum number of active preﬁx

The relay
delegations on a single port for all client identiﬁers and IA_PDs. This value
conﬁgurable.

MUST

 be

RECOMMENDED

It is
client device and use this as the default limit.

 that delegating relays support at least 8 active delegated leases per

The delegating relay
forwards to the client and only expire the delegated preﬁxes when the valid lifetime has
elapsed.

 update the lease lifetimes based on the client's reply messages it

MUST

On receipt of a Release message from the client, the delegating relay
active leases for each of the IA_PDs in the message.

MUST

 expire the

4.2.  Routing Requirements

R-1:

R-2:

R-3:

MUST

 maintain a local routing table that is dynamically updated with leases and

The relay
the associated next hops as they are delegated to clients. When a delegated preﬁx is
released or expires, the associated route

 be removed from the relay's routing table.

MUST

The delegating relay's routing entry
preﬁx as given in the IA_PD.

MUST

 use the same preﬁx length for the delegated

MUST

The relay
 provide a mechanism to dynamically update ingress ﬁlters permitting
ingress traﬃc sourced from client delegated leases and blocking packets from invalid
source preﬁxes. This is to implement anti-spooﬁng as described in
relay's ingress ﬁlter entry
given in the IA_PD.

 use the same preﬁx length for the delegated preﬁx as

[BCP38]

MUST

. The delegating

Farrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8987

DHCPv6 PD Relay

February 2021

R-4:

R-5:

MAY

 provide a mechanism to dynamically advertise delegated leases into a

The relay
routing protocol as they are learned. If such a mechanism is implemented, when a
delegated lease is released or expires, the delegated route
routing protocol. The mechanism by which the routes are inserted and deleted is out of the
scope of this document.

 be withdrawn from the

MUST

To prevent routing loops, the relay
potential looping packets received on any DHCP-PD client-facing interfaces.

 implement a conﬁgurable policy to drop

SHOULD

The policy

SHOULD

 be conﬁgurable on a per-client or per-destination basis.

Looping packets are those with a destination address in a preﬁx delegated to a client
connected to that interface, as follows:

•

For point-to-point links, when the packet's ingress and egress interfaces match.

•

For multi-access links, when the packet's ingress and egress interface match, and the
source link-layer and next-hop link-layer addresses match.

An ICMPv6 Type 1, Code 6 (Destination Unreachable, reject route to destination) error
message
MAY
conﬁgurable.

[RFC4443], Section 3.1

. The ICMP policy

 be sent as per

SHOULD

 be

4.3.  Service Continuity Requirements

S-1:

To preserve active client preﬁx delegations across relay restarts, the relay
implement at least one of the following:

SHOULD

•

Implement DHCPv6 Bulk Leasequery as deﬁned in

[RFC5460]

.

•

Store active preﬁx delegations in persistent storage so they can be reread after the
reboot.

If a client's next-hop link-local address becomes unreachable (e.g., due to a link-down
event on the relevant physical interface), routes for the client's delegated preﬁxes
 be
retained by the delegating relay unless they are released or removed due to expiring DHCP
timers. This is to reestablish routing for the delegated preﬁx if the client next hop becomes
reachable without the delegated preﬁxes needing to be relearned.

MUST

The relay
the local lease database in sync with the DHCPv6 server.

 implement DHCPv6 Active Leasequery as deﬁned in

SHOULD

[RFC7653]

 to keep

S-2:

S-3:

4.4.  Operational Requirements

O-1:

SHOULD

 implement an interface allowing the operator to view the active

The relay
 provide information about the delegated lease and client
delegated preﬁxes. This
details such as the client identiﬁer, next-hop address, connected interface, and remaining
lifetimes.

SHOULD

Farrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8987

DHCPv6 PD Relay

February 2021

O-2:

O-3:

The relay
individual lease, client, or all bindings on a port.

SHOULD

 provide a method for the operator to clear active bindings for an

To facilitate troubleshooting of operational problems between the delegating relay and
other elements, it is
RECOMMENDED
delegating relays and DHCP servers.

 that a time synchronization protocol be used by the

5.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

6.  Security Considerations

This document does not add any new security considerations beyond those mentioned in
4 of [RFC8213]

Section 22 of [RFC8415]

 and

.

Section

If the delegating relay implements
dynamically updated as delegated preﬁxes are leased.

[BCP38]

 ﬁltering, then the ﬁltering rules will need to be

[RFC8213]
DHCP messages over an IPsec tunnel. It is
delegating relay.

 describes a method for securing traﬃc between the relay agent and server by sending

RECOMMENDED

 that this be implemented by the

Failure to implement requirement G-6 may have speciﬁc security implications, such as a
resource depletion attack on the relay.

The operational requirements in Section 4.4 may introduce additional security considerations. It
is

 that the operational security practices described in

 be implemented.

RECOMMENDED

[RFC4778]

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4443]

[RFC4778]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Conta, A., Deering, S., and M. Gupta, Ed. "Internet Control Message Protocol
(ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD 89 RFC
,
4443 DOI 10.17487/RFC4443
rfc4443>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2006,

,

.

,

,

Kaeo, M. "Operational Security Current Practices in Internet Service Provider
,
Environments" RFC 4778 DOI 10.17487/RFC4778
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4778>

, January 2007,

<https://

,

.

Farrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8987

DHCPv6 PD Relay

February 2021

[RFC5460]

[RFC7653]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8213]

[RFC8415]

Stapp, M. "DHCPv6 Bulk Leasequery" RFC 5460 DOI 10.17487/RFC5460
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5460>
February 2009,

.

,

,

,

,

Raghuvanshi, D., Kinnear, K., and D. Kukrety "DHCPv6 Active Leasequery" RFC
7653 DOI 10.17487/RFC7653
,
rfc7653>

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2015,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Volz, B. and Y. Pal "Security of Messages Exchanged between Servers and Relay
Agents" RFC 8213 DOI 10.17487/RFC8213
editor.org/info/rfc8213>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2017,

,
,

,

.

Mrugalski, T., Siodelski, M., Volz, B., Yourtchenko, A., Richardson, M., Jiang, S.,
Lemon, T., and T. Winters "Dynamic Host Conﬁguration Protocol for IPv6
(DHCPv6)" RFC 8415 DOI 10.17487/RFC8415
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8415>

, November 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[BCP38]

[DOCSIS_3.1]

[TR-092]

Ferguson, P. and D. Senie "Network Ingress Filtering: Defeating Denial of Service
Attacks which employ IP Source Address Spooﬁng" BCP 38 RFC 2827
, May 2000.

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp38>

CableLabs "MAC and Upper Layer Protocols Interface Speciﬁcation" Version 10
,
DOCSIS 3.1
, January 2017,
MULPIv3.1>

<https://www.cablelabs.com/speciﬁcation/CM-SP-

.

,

,

,
Broadband Forum "Broadband Remote Access Server (BRAS) Requirements
<https://www.broadband-
Document" Technical Report TR-092
forum.org/download/TR-092.pdf>

, August 2004,

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors of this document would like to thank
Richardson

 for their valuable comments.

Bernie Volz Ted Lemon
,

, and

Michael

Farrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8987

DHCPv6 PD Relay

February 2021

Authors' Addresses

Ian Farrer
Deutsche Telekom AG
Landgrabenweg 151
53227 Bonn
Germany
Email:

 ian.farrer@telekom.de

Naveen Kottapalli
Benu Networks
WeWork Galaxy, 43 Residency Road
Bangalore 560025
Karnataka
India
Email:

 nkottapalli@benunets.com

Martin Hunek
Technical University of Liberec
Studentska 1402/2
46017 Liberec
Czech Republic
Email:

 martin.hunek@tul.cz

Richard Patterson
Sky UK Ltd.
1 Brick Lane
London
E1 6PU
United Kingdom
Email:

 richard.patterson@sky.uk

Farrer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

