Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8786
8231
Standards Track
May 2020
2070-1721
A. Farrel
Old Dog Consulting

RFC 8786
Updated Rules for Processing Stateful PCE Request
Parameters Flags

Abstract

Extensions to the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) to support stateful
Path Computation Elements (PCEs) are deﬁned in RFC 8231. One of the extensions is the Stateful
PCE Request Parameters (SRP) object. That object includes a Flags ﬁeld that is a set of 32 bit ﬂags,
and RFC 8281 deﬁnes an IANA registry for tracking assigned ﬂags. However, RFC 8231 does not
explain how an implementation should set unassigned ﬂags in transmitted messages, nor how an
implementation should process unassigned, unknown, or unsupported ﬂags in received
messages.

This document updates RFC 8231 by deﬁning the correct behaviors.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8786

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Farrel

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8786

Stateful PCEP Flags

May 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Updated Procedures

3.1.  Advice for Speciﬁcation of New Flags

3.2.  Flags Field of the SRP Object

4.  Compatibility Considerations

5.  Management Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

 describes the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP). PCEP

[RFC5440]
deﬁnes the communication between a Path Computation Client (PCC) and a Path Computation
Element (PCE), or between PCEs, enabling computation of Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS)
for Traﬃc Engineering Label Switched Path (TE LSP) characteristics.

Farrel

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8786

Stateful PCEP Flags

May 2020

 speciﬁes a set of extensions to PCEP to enable stateful control of LSPs within and
. It includes mechanisms to eﬀect Label

[RFC8231]
[RFC4657]
across PCEP sessions in compliance with
Switched Path (LSP) State Synchronization between PCCs and PCEs, delegation of control over
LSPs to PCEs, and PCE control of timing and sequence of path computations within and across
PCEP sessions.

[RFC8231]

One of the extensions deﬁned in
That object includes a Flags ﬁeld that is a set of 32 bit ﬂags, and RFC 8281 deﬁnes an IANA
registry for tracking assigned ﬂags. However, RFC 8231 does not explain how an implementation
should set unassigned ﬂags in transmitted messages, nor how an implementation should process
unassigned or unknown ﬂags in received messages.

 is the Stateful PCE Request Parameters (SRP) object.

[RFC8231]

Furthermore,
describe the interaction between ﬂags that have already been deﬁned and ﬂags being deﬁned in
the new speciﬁcations.

 gives no guidance to the authors of future speciﬁcations about how to

This document updates RFC 8231 by deﬁning the correct behaviors.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Updated Procedures

3.1.  Advice for Speciﬁcation of New Flags

Section 7 of [RFC8231]
and TLVs in support of stateful PCE functionality. That text does not advise future speciﬁcations
on how to describe the interaction between ﬂags that may be deﬁned.

 introduces changes to existing PCEP objects and deﬁnes new PCEP objects

The text in

Section 7 of [RFC8231]

 is updated to read as follows:

The PCEP objects deﬁned in this document are compliant with the PCEP object format
deﬁned in
MUST
exclusively related to path computation requests.

. The P and I ﬂags of the PCEP objects deﬁned in the current document

 be ignored on receipt since they are

 be set to 0 on transmission and

[RFC5440]

SHOULD

The sections that follow deﬁne PCEP objects and TLVs that contain Flags ﬁelds, and some ﬂag
values are deﬁned. Future speciﬁcations may deﬁne further ﬂags, and each new
speciﬁcation that deﬁnes additional ﬂags is expected to describe the interaction between
these new ﬂags and any existing ﬂags. In particular, new speciﬁcations are expected to
explain how to handle the cases when both new and pre-existing ﬂags are set.

Farrel

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8786

Stateful PCEP Flags

May 2020

3.2.  Flags Field of the SRP Object

Section 7.2 of [RFC8231]

 deﬁnes the PCEP SRP object. It describes the Flags ﬁeld as:

Flags (32 bits): None deﬁned yet.

This document updates that text as follows:

Flags (32 bits): This document does not deﬁne any ﬂags. Unassigned ﬂags
on transmission and
any particular ﬂag

 ignore the ﬂag.

MUST

MUST

 be ignored on receipt. Implementations that do not understand

MUST

 be set to zero

4.  Compatibility Considerations

While one of the main objectives of the changes made by this document is to enable backward
compatibility, there remains an issue of compatibility between existing implementations of RFC
8231 and implementations that are consistent with this document.

It should be noted that common behavior for Flags ﬁelds is as described by the updated text
presented in Section 3. Thus, many implementations, lacking guidance from RFC 8231, will still
have implemented a consistent and future-proof approach. However, for completeness, it is
worth noting how behaviors might interact between implementations.

SRP objects generated by an implementation of this document will set all unknown ﬂag bits to
zero and will therefore cause no issues to an older implementation even if it inspects those bits.
Similarly, an implementation of this document will not inspect any unknown ﬂag bits and will
therefore be unaﬀected by older implementations no matter how they set the ﬂags.

There will remain an issue with compatibility between implementations and how they set the
ﬂags. An implementation of RFC 8231 might set any of the unassigned ﬂags, but an
) assigns
implementation of a future or current speciﬁcation (such as
speciﬁc meanings to a ﬂag if set. That problem cannot be ﬁxed in old implementations by any
amount of documentation and can only be handled for future speciﬁcations by obsoleting the
Flags ﬁeld and using a new technique. Fortunately, however, most implementations will have
been constructed to set unused ﬂags to zero, which is consistent with the behavior described in
this document, and so the risk of bad interactions is suﬃciently small that there is no need to
obsolete the existing Flags ﬁeld.

[RFC8741]

[RFC8281]

 or

5.  Management Considerations

Implementations receiving set SRP ﬂags that they do not recognize
helpful for diagnosing backward compatibility issues with future features that utilize those ﬂags.

 log this. That could be

MAY

Farrel

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8786

Stateful PCEP Flags

May 2020

6.  Security Considerations

[RFC8231]
stateful PCE. This document does not change those considerations.

 sets out security considerations for PCEP when used for communication with a

However, by deﬁning the expected behavior of implementations, this document may improve
the stability of networks and thus reduce the attack surface. That is, by reminding
implementations to ignore unset bits, it is less possible to attack them by randomly tweaking bits.
Furthermore, by reminding implementations to leave undeﬁned bits unset, the network is
future-proofed against new deﬁnitions of previously undeﬁned bits.

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA maintains a registry called the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers"
registry with a subregistry called "SRP Object Flag Field". IANA has updated the reference for
that subregistry to list this document in addition to

[RFC8281]
.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8281]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Crabbe, E., Minei, I., Medved, J., and R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

,

,

,

.

Crabbe, E., Minei, I., Sivabalan, S., and R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

,

,

.

,

<https://

8.2.  Informative References

[RFC4657]

Ash, J., Ed. and J.L. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)
Communication Protocol Generic Requirements" RFC 4657 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4657

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4657>

, September 2006,

,

,

,

.

Farrel

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8786

Stateful PCEP Flags

May 2020

[RFC5440]

[RFC8741]

Vasseur, JP., Ed. and JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)
,
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

,

.

, March 2009,

Raghuram, A., Goddard, A., Karthik, J., Sivabalan, S., and M. Negi "Ability for a
Stateful Path Computation Element (PCE) to Request and Obtain Control of a
,
Label Switched Path (LSP)" RFC 8741 DOI 10.17487/RFC8741
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8741>

, March 2020,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

[RFC8741]

Julien Meuric

Thanks to the authors of
and
for his Shepherd's review. Thanks to
during IESG review.

 for exposing the need for this work. Thanks to

 for discussing the solution. Additional thanks to

Benjamin Kaduk

 and

Alvaro Retana

Dhruv Dhody
Hariharan Ananthakrishnan
 for helpful comments

Author's Address

Adrian Farrel
Old Dog Consulting
Email:

 adrian@olddog.co.uk

Farrel

Standards Track

Page 6

