Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8917
5222
Standards Track
October 2020
2070-1721
R. Gellens
Core Technology Consulting

B. Rosen

RFC 8917
The LoST-Validation Straightforward-Naming
Authority PoinTeR (S-NAPTR) Application Service
Tag

Abstract

This document adds the 'LoST-Validation' service tag to the Straightforward-Naming Authority
PoinTeR (S-NAPTR) Application Service Tag IANA registry. This tag can appear in a Naming
Authority Pointer (NAPTR) Domain Name System (DNS) record to assist clients of the Location-to-
Service Translation (LoST) Protocol in identifying LoST servers designated for location validation.
This tag and the information about its use update RFC 5222, which enables the explicit discovery
of a server that supports location validation.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8917

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Gellens & Rosen

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8917

LoST-Validation

October 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Document Scope

2.  Introduction

2.1.  Requirements Language

3.  The LoST-Validation Application Service Tag

4.  Backwards Compatibility

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  S-NAPTR Registration

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Document Scope

This document adds 'LoST-Validation' to the S-NAPTR Application Service Tag IANA registry and
describes how this tag ﬁts in the LoST server discovery procedure described in
. This
tag is used with Naming Authority Pointer (NAPTR) Domain Name System (DNS) records so that
clients of the Location-to-Service Translation (LoST) Protocol
designated for location validation. This tag and the information on its use is an update to
 that enables the explicit discovery of a server that supports location validation.
[RFC5222]

 can identify servers

[RFC5222]

[RFC5222]

Gellens & Rosen

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8917

LoST-Validation

October 2020

2.  Introduction

[NENA-i3]

[RFC5222]

), which deﬁnes the

 deﬁnes a mapping service with the additional ability for a client to
The LoST Protocol
request that a civic address be validated. The LoST protocol allows servers to ignore a request to
perform location validation. The National Emergency Number Association (NENA) has deﬁned
an architecture for all-IP emergency services (known as "i3"
mapping (routing) and validation functions as two distinct functional elements, deﬁned as an
Emergency Call Routing Function (ECRF) and a Location Validation Function (LVF). NENA i3
requires that the mapping (ECRF) and validation (LVF) functions be separable; an entity
responsible for a LoST server cluster can decide to provide mapping and validation services
using consolidated or separate server clusters (i.e., using the same or separate boxes). The
rationale is that the mapping service is used in real time during emergency call routing, while
the validation service is used in advance, typically when data is provisioned; therefore, the
mapping service has much higher availability and response-time requirements than the
validation service. An organization might choose to deploy these services using diﬀerent server
clusters to make it easier to provide higher levels of service for the mapping function while
shielding it from the potentially bursty load of validation. Another organization might choose to
use the same sets of servers for both services, conﬁgured and deployed to oﬀer the high service
level demanded of the mapping service.

In order to permit this separability, any entity querying a LoST server needs to be able to resolve
an Application Unique String (AUS) into a URL for a LoST server designated for the required
service (mapping or validation). This separability needs to be maintained throughout the LoST
tree structure, from forest guide to leaf node (LoST architecture is described in
Because LoST referrals return an AUS rather than a URL, either a diﬀerent service tag or a DNS
name convention (e.g., "ecrf.example.org" and "lvf.example.org") is needed to diﬀerentiate
between the services. DNS name conventions are inﬂexible and fragile, making a diﬀerent
service tag the preferred approach.

[RFC5582]

).

Because LoST servers may ignore a request to perform location validation, a service tag explicitly
for location validation also reduces the likelihood (which has existed since
client needing location validation will reach servers that are not doing so (due to conﬁguration
and/or conditions).

[RFC5582]

) that a

2.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Gellens & Rosen

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8917

LoST-Validation

October 2020

3.  The LoST-Validation Application Service Tag

[RFC3958]

This document adds 'LoST-Validation' to the "S-NAPTR Application Service Tags" registry created
by
[RFC5222]
'LoST-Validation' identiﬁes servers designated for the validation function.

. The 'LoST-Validation' tag serves as a counterpart to the 'LoST' tag added by
: the 'LoST' tag identiﬁes servers able to perform the core mapping function, while

Because some servers might be conﬁgured to provide both mapping and validation functions, a
server identiﬁed using the 'LoST' service tag might also perform the validation function (and
resolving the two tags might result in the same URL). Because the two functions might be
separate, clients seeking a LoST server for location validation can ﬁrst try a URI-Enabled NAPTR
(U-NAPTR) resolution using the 'LoST-Validation' service tag and can fall back to the 'LoST'
service tag if this does not resolve to a usable LoST server.

[RFC5222]

[RFC4848]

 and deﬁnes the 'LoST'

 speciﬁes that LoST servers are located by resolving an AUS using U-NAPTR/DDDS

LoST
(URI-Enabled NAPTR / Dynamic Delegation Discovery Service)
application service tag. In order to permit separability of the mapping and validation services
performed using LoST, this document deﬁnes the 'LoST-Validation' service tag. This tag also
reduces the likelihood that a client needing location validation might reach servers that are not
performing validation (due to conﬁguration and/or conditions). NAPTR records for LoST servers
available for location validation contain the 'LoST-Validation' service tag. An entity needing to
perform location validation using LoST performs the discovery procedure as described in
[RFC5222]
tag. For both service tags, the HTTP and HTTPS URL schemes are used. In the absence of any
NAPTR records containing the 'LoST-Validation' service tag, the 'LoST' service tag is used. Fallback
to the 'LoST' service tag may follow if the 'LoST-Validation' service tag fails to result in a usable
LoST server. The discovery procedure with the 'LoST-Validation' service tag might result in the
same URL as the 'LoST' service tag, or it may result in a diﬀerent URL. When the URLs are
diﬀerent, they could lead to the same physical servers or diﬀerent servers.

, except that the 'LoST-Validation' service tag is used in preference to the 'LoST' service

4.  Backwards Compatibility

The primary use of LoST in general, and the location validation functionality in particular, is
within the emergency services area. Within North America, the NENA i3
 document
speciﬁes how protocols including LoST are used. The i3 document is expected to reference the
'LoST-Validation' service tag and specify its use in both server NAPTR DNS records and client
resolution of AUS.

[NENA-i3]

LoST allows a server to refuse to perform location validation and deﬁnes the
'locationValidationUnavailable' warning. LoST also allows a server to refer to another server
rather than answering itself. So, in a deployment where a LoST tree has separate server clusters
for mapping and for validation, mapping servers receiving a request for validation could either
perform the validation as requested or return the 'locationValidationUnavailable' warning and
potentially also include a <redirect> element to redirect to a validation server. However, the

Gellens & Rosen

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8917

LoST-Validation

October 2020

<redirect> element contains an AUS, so unless the AUSs for validation and mapping are diﬀerent
(e.g., 'ecrf.example.org' and 'lvf.example.org'), we still need a diﬀerent service tag to allow for
ﬂexible deployment choices (i.e., not requiring a DNS name convention).

LoST clients performing emergency services operations in North America are expected to comply
with the NENA i3 speciﬁcation and hence support the 'LoST-Validation' service tag when deﬁned.
A LoST client implemented prior to the addition of the 'LoST-Validation' tag would use the 'LoST'
tag to resolve an AUS. Such a client might not be performing location validation, but if it is, the
LoST server it contacts may perform the service. Even in a deployment where mapping and
validation are split, the data is identical; the split is a load and deployment optimization strategy.
Servers designated for mapping might perform validation when requested (potentially
depending on load or other factors). If an older client attempts validation using a designated
mapping server that refuses the request, the client will retry later, at which point the server
might provide the function (e.g., if its load or other conditions have changed). Even in the case of
a designated mapping server that refuses to perform validation at any time, the server could
return a redirect with a diﬀerent AUS (e.g., "lvf.example.com") that resolves to a designated
validation server. In the worst case, the client will be unable to reach a server willing to perform
validation and will follow up (e.g., submit a discrepancy report as speciﬁed in NENA i3). The
resolution may be to update the client with the 'LoST-Validation' service tag, update the AUS
returned in a redirect and DNS to use a diﬀerent DNS host name, or permit the server to perform
validation when not under stress (or a combination). Note that, because LoST does not require
servers to perform validation, the situation described can exist regardless of the addition of the
'LoST-Validation' service tag. Use of the tag improves the likelihood that a client is able to validate
a location when needed.

5.  Security Considerations

[RFC3958] [RFC4848]
,

The security considerations described in
 apply here. No
additional security aspects are foreseen by the addition of an extra tag. Separation of services
might be desired, for example, to be able to allocate diﬀerent levels of resources (such as server
capacity, attack mitigation, bandwidth, etc.) to the mapping and validation services, in which
case separate tags are needed to allow LoST clients (which may include other LoST servers) to
identify the correct server cluster.

[RFC5222]

, and

 descriptively discusses the use of DNS security

 to mitigate the risk of DNS-
[RFC5222]
based attacks. Because DNS security has become more widely deployed since the publication of
 be used when performing NAPTR resolution. Note that, while
[RFC5222]
there are valid reasons to proceed with a LoST mapping query despite security failures while
initiating or processing an emergency call, these concerns generally do not apply to a LoST
validation query done in advance of an emergency call.

, such measures

[RFC4033]

SHOULD

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added 'LoST-Validation' to the "S-NAPTR Application Service Tags" registry created by
[RFC3958]

. This tag serves as a counterpart to the 'LoST' tag added by

[RFC5222]

.

Gellens & Rosen

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8917

LoST-Validation

October 2020

(Note that IANA and
[RFC5222]

 calls it "U-NAPTR application service tag".)

[RFC3958]

 call this registry "S-NAPTR Application Service Tags", while

6.1.  S-NAPTR Registration

This document registers an S-NAPTR application service tag:

Application Service Tag:

LoST-Validation

Deﬁning Publication:

This document

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3958]

[RFC4033]

[RFC4848]

[RFC5222]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Daigle, L. and A. Newton "Domain-Based Application Service Location Using
SRV RRs and the Dynamic Delegation Discovery Service (DDDS)" RFC 3958 DOI
10.17487/RFC3958

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3958>

, January 2005,

,

,

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "DNS Security
,
Introduction and Requirements" RFC 4033 DOI 10.17487/RFC4033
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4033>

,

.

,

, March 2005,

,

Daigle, L. "Domain-Based Application Service Location Using URIs and the
Dynamic Delegation Discovery Service (DDDS)" RFC 4848 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4848

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4848>

, April 2007,

,

,

.

Hardie, T., Newton, A., Schulzrinne, H., and H. Tschofenig "LoST: A Location-to-
,
Service Translation Protocol" RFC 5222 DOI 10.17487/RFC5222
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5222>

, August 2008,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

7.2.  Informative References

[NENA-i3]

National Emergency Number Association (NENA) Interconnection and Security
Committee, i3 Architecture Working Group "Detailed Functional and Interface
Standards for the NENA i3 Solution"
, 2016,
i3_Stage3>

,
<https://www.nena.org/page/

.

Gellens & Rosen

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8917

LoST-Validation

October 2020

[RFC5582]

,

Schulzrinne, H. "Location-to-URL Mapping Architecture and Framework" RFC
5582 DOI 10.17487/RFC5582
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc5582>

, September 2009,

.

,

Acknowledgements

Many thanks to
Wilton Roman Danyliw
,
Barry Leiba

,
, and
 for shepherding the document.

Benjamin Kaduk

,

Ted Hardie Ben Campbell Dan Banks Pete Resnick Shawn Emery Robert

,

,

,

 for their helpful reviews and suggestions and to

Authors' Addresses

Randall Gellens
Core Technology Consulting
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 rg+ietf@coretechnologyconsulting.com
 http://www.coretechnologyconsulting.com

Brian Rosen
470 Conrad Dr.
Mars PA 16046
United States of America
Email:

 br@brianrosen.net

,

Gellens & Rosen

Standards Track

Page 7

