Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8977
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
M. Loﬀredo
IIT-CNR/Registro.it

M. Martinelli
IIT-CNR/Registro.it

S. Hollenbeck
Verisign Labs

RFC 8977
Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query
Parameters for Result Sorting and Paging

Abstract

The Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) does not include core functionality for clients to
provide sorting and paging parameters for control of large result sets. This omission can lead to
unpredictable server processing of queries and client processing of responses. This
unpredictability can be greatly reduced if clients can provide servers with their preferences for
managing large responses. This document describes RDAP query extensions that allow clients to
specify their preferences for sorting and paging result sets.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8977

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.  RDAP Query Parameter Speciﬁcation

2.1.  Sorting and Paging Metadata

2.1.1.  RDAP Conformance

2.2.  "count" Parameter

2.3.  "sort" Parameter

2.3.1.  Sorting Properties Declaration

2.3.2.  Representing Sorting Links

2.4.  "cursor" Parameter

2.4.1.  Representing Paging Links

3.  Negative Answers

4.  Implementation Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  JSONPath Operators

Appendix B.  Approaches to Result Pagination

B.1.  Speciﬁc Issues Raised by RDAP

Appendix C.  Implementation Notes

C.1.  Sorting

C.2.  Counting

C.3.  Paging

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The availability of functionality for result sorting and paging provides beneﬁts to both clients
and servers in the implementation of RESTful services

. These beneﬁts include:

[REST]

•

reducing the server response bandwidth requirements

•

improving server response time

•

improving query precision and, consequently, obtaining more relevant results

•

decreasing server query processing load

•

reducing client response processing time

Approaches to implementing features for result sorting and paging can be grouped into two
main categories:

1.

2.

Sorting and paging are implemented through the introduction of additional parameters in
the query string (e.g., the Open Data Protocol (ODATA)

[ODATA-PART1]

).

Information related to the number of results and the speciﬁc portion of the result set to be
returned, in addition to a set of ready-made links for the result set scrolling, are inserted in
[RFC7231]
the HTTP header of the request/response

.

However, there are some drawbacks associated with the use of the HTTP header. First, the
header properties cannot be set directly from a web browser. Moreover, in an HTTP session, the
information on the status (i.e., the session identiﬁer) is usually inserted in the header or a cookie,
while the information on the resource identiﬁcation or the search type is included in the query
string. Finally, providing custom information through HTTP headers assumes the client has prior
knowledge of the server implementation, which is widely considered a Representational State
Transfer (REST) design anti-pattern. As a result, this document describes a speciﬁcation based on
the use of query parameters.

Currently, RDAP

[RFC7482]

 deﬁnes two query types:

lookup:

the server returns only one object

search:

the server returns a collection of objects

While the lookup query does not raise issues regarding response size management, the search
query can potentially generate a large result set that is often truncated according to server limits.
Besides, it is not possible to obtain the total number of objects found that might be returned in a

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

search query response
most relevant objects at the beginning of the result set. Therefore, the client might traverse the
whole result set to ﬁnd the relevant objects or, due to truncation, might not ﬁnd them at all.

. Lastly, there is no way to specify sort criteria to return the

[RFC7483]

The speciﬁcation described in this document extends RDAP query capabilities to enable result
sorting and paging by adding new query parameters that can be applied to RDAP search path
segments. The service is implemented using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
and the conventions described in

.
[RFC7480]

[RFC7230]

The implementation of the new parameters is technically feasible, as operators for counting,
sorting, and paging rows are currently supported by the major relational database management
systems.

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  RDAP Query Parameter Speciﬁcation

The new query parameters are
They are as follows:

OPTIONAL

 extensions of path segments deﬁned in

[RFC7482]
.

"count":

a boolean value that allows a client to request the return of the total number of objects

found

"sort":

a string value that allows a client to request a speciﬁc sort order for the result set

"cursor":

a string value representing a pointer to a speciﬁc ﬁxed-size portion of the result set

Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF)
formal syntax of these new parameters.

[RFC5234]

 is used in the following sections to describe the

2.1.  Sorting and Paging Metadata

According to most advanced principles in REST design, collectively known as HATEOAS
, a client entering a REST application
(Hypermedia as the Engine of Application State)
through an initial URI should use server-provided links to dynamically discover available actions
and access the resources it needs. In this way, the client is neither required to have prior
knowledge of the service nor, consequently, to hard code the URIs of diﬀerent resources. This
allows the server to make URI changes as the API evolves without breaking clients. Deﬁnitively, a
REST service should be as self-descriptive as possible.

[HATEOAS]

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

Therefore, servers implementing the query parameters described in this speciﬁcation
SHOULD
provide additional information in their responses about both the available sorting criteria and
possible pagination. Such information is collected in two
 response elements named
"sorting_metadata" and "paging_metadata".

OPTIONAL

The "sorting_metadata" element contains the following properties:

"currentSort": "String" (

OPTIONAL

)

Either the value of the "sort" parameter as speciﬁed in the query string or the sort applied by
default, if any.

"availableSorts": "AvailableSort[]" (

OPTIONAL

)

An array of objects, with each element describing an available sort criterion. The
AvailableSort object includes the following members:

"property": "String" (

REQUIRED

)

The name that can be used by the client to request the sort criterion.

"default": "Boolean" (

REQUIRED

)

Indicator of whether the sort criterion is applied by default. An RDAP server
only one default sorting property for each object class.

MUST

 deﬁne

"jsonPath": "String" (

OPTIONAL

)

The JSONPath expression of the RDAP ﬁeld corresponding to the property.

"links": "Link[]" (

OPTIONAL

)

An array of links as described in
sort criterion.

[RFC8288]

 containing the query string that applies the

At least one of the "currentSort" and "availableSorts" properties

MUST

 be present.

The "paging_metadata" element contains the following ﬁelds:

"totalCount": "Numeric" (

)
A numeric value representing the total number of objects found. It
only if the query string contains the "count" parameter.

OPTIONAL

MUST

 be provided if and

"pageSize": "Numeric" (

OPTIONAL

)

MUST

A numeric value representing the number of objects that should have been returned in the
 be provided if and only if the total number of objects exceeds the page
current page. It
size. This property is redundant for RDAP clients because the page size can be derived from
the length of the search results array, but it can be helpful if the end user interacts with the
server through a web browser.

"pageNumber": "Numeric" (

OPTIONAL

)

A numeric value representing the number of the current page in the result set. It
provided if and only if the total number of objects found exceeds the page size.

MUST

 be

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

"links": "Link[]" (

OPTIONAL

)

An array of links as described in
speciﬁcation, only forward pagination is described because it is all that is necessary to
traverse the result set.

 containing the reference to the next page. In this

[RFC8288]

2.1.1.  RDAP Conformance

Servers returning the "paging_metadata" element in their response
literal "paging" in the rdapConformance array. Servers returning the "sorting_metadata" element
MUST

 include the string literal "sorting".

 include the string

MUST

2.2.  "count" Parameter

Currently, RDAP does not allow a client to determine the total number of results in a query
response when the result set is truncated. This is ineﬃcient because the user cannot determine if
the result set is complete.

The "count" parameter provides additional functionality that allows a client to request
information from the server that speciﬁes the total number of objects matching the search
pattern.

The following is an example of an RDAP query including the "count" parameter:

https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com&count=true

The ABNF syntax is the following:

   count = "count=" ( trueValue / falseValue )
   trueValue = ("true" / "yes" / "1")
   falseValue = ("false" / "no" / "0")

A trueValue means that the server
ﬁeld of the "paging_metadata" element (Figure 1). A falseValue means that the server
provide this number.

 provide the total number of objects in the "totalCount"
MUST NOT

MUST

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

{
  "rdapConformance": [
        "rdap_level_0",
        "paging"
  ],
  ...
  "paging_metadata": {
    "totalCount": 43
  },
  "domainSearchResults": [
    ...
  ]
}

Figure 1: Example of RDAP Response with "paging_metadata" Element Containing the "totalCount"
Field

2.3.  "sort" Parameter

RDAP does not provide any capability to specify the result set sort criteria. A server could
implement a default sorting scheme according to the object class, but this feature is not
mandatory and might not meet user requirements. Sorting can be addressed by the client, but
this solution is rather ineﬃcient. Sorting features provided by the RDAP server could help avoid
truncation of relevant results.

The "sort" parameter allows the client to ask the server to sort the results according to the values
of one or more properties and according to the sort direction of each property. The ABNF syntax
is the following:

   sort = "sort=" sortItem *( "," sortItem )
   sortItem = property-ref [":" ( "a" / "d" ) ]
   property-ref = ALPHA *( ALPHA / DIGIT / "_" )

"a" means that an ascending sort
applied. If the sort direction is absent, an ascending sort

MUST

MUST

 be applied.

 be applied; "d" means that a descending sort

MUST

 be

The following are examples of RDAP queries that include the "sort" parameter:

https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com&sort=name

https://example.com/rdap/ domains?name=example*.com&sort=registrationDate:d

https://example.com/rdap/ domains?name=example*.com&sort=lockedDate,name

Except for sorting IP addresses and values denoting dates and times, servers
sorting according to the JSON value type of the RDAP ﬁeld the sorting property refers to. That is,
JSON strings
 be sorted numerically.
MUST
Values denoting dates and times
represented as JSON strings, they

 be sorted in chronological order. If IP addresses are
 be sorted based on their numeric conversion.

 be sorted lexicographically, and JSON numbers

 implement

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

The conversion of an IPv4 address to a number is possible since each dotted format IPv4 address
is a representation of a number written in a 256-based manner; for example, 192.168.0.1 means
1*256^0 + 0*256^1 + 168*256^2 + 192*256^3 = 3232235521. Similarly, an IPv6 address can be
converted into a number by applying the base 65536. Therefore, the numerical representation of
the IPv6 address 2001:0db8:85a3:0:0:8a2e:0370:7334 is
42540766452641154071740215577757643572. Built-in functions and libraries for converting IP
addresses into numbers are available in most known programming languages and relational
database management systems.

If the "sort" parameter presents an allowed sorting property, it
"currentSort" ﬁeld of the "sorting_metadata" element.

MUST

 be provided in the

2.3.1.  Sorting Properties Declaration

In the "sort" parameter ABNF syntax, the element named "property-ref" represents a reference to
a property of an RDAP object. Such a reference could be expressed by using a JSONPath
expression (named "jsonpath" in the following).

JSONPath is a syntax, originally based on the XML XPath notation
which represents a path to select an element (or a set of elements) in a JSON document
. For example, the jsonpath to select the value of the ASCII name inside an RDAP
[RFC8259]
domain lookup response is "$.ldhName", where $ identiﬁes the root of the document object
model (DOM). Another way to select a value inside a JSON document is the JSON Pointer
.
[RFC6901]

[W3C.CR-xpath-31-20170321]

,

While JSONPath and JSON Pointer are both commonly adopted notations to select any value
inside JSON data, neither is particularly concise and easy to use (e.g., "$.domainSearchResults
[*].events[?(@.eventAction='registration')].eventDate" is the jsonpath of the registration date in
an RDAP domain search response).

Therefore, this speciﬁcation deﬁnes the "property-ref" element in terms of names identifying
RDAP properties. However, not all the RDAP properties are suitable to be used in sort criteria.
These properties include:

•

properties providing service information (e.g., links, notices, and remarks)

•

multivalued properties (e.g., status, roles, and variants)

•

properties representing relationships to other objects (e.g., entities)

On the contrary, properties expressed as values of other properties (e.g., registration date) could
be used in such a context.

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

A list of properties an RDAP server
two groups: object-common properties and object-speciﬁc properties.

MAY

 implement is deﬁned. The properties are divided into

•

Object-common properties. Object-common properties are derived from merging the
"eventAction" and the "eventDate" properties. The following values of the "sort" parameter
are deﬁned:

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

registrationDate

reregistrationDate

lastChangedDate

expirationDate

deletionDate

reinstantiationDate

transferDate

lockedDate

unlockedDate

•

Object-speciﬁc properties. Note that some of these properties are also deﬁned as query path
segments. These properties include:

◦

◦

◦

Domain: name

Nameserver: name, ipv4, ipv6

Entity: fn, handle, org, email, voice, country, cc, city

The correspondence between these sorting properties and the RDAP object classes is shown in
Table 1. Some of the sorting properties deﬁned for the RDAP entity class are related to jCard
elements
deﬁnitions are included in the vCard speciﬁcation

, but because jCard is the JSON format for vCard, the corresponding

[RFC7095]

[RFC6350]

.

An RDAP server
described in Table 1.

MUST NOT

 use the deﬁned sorting properties with a meaning other than that

RFC
6350

RFC
8605

Object class

Searchable
objects

Sorting
property

Common
properties

RDAP property

eventAction values
suﬃxed by "Date"

Domain

name

unicodeName/ ldhName

Nameserver

name

unicodeName/ ldhName

ipv4

ipv6

v4 ipAddress

v6 ipAddress

RFC
7483

4.5

5.3

5.2

5.2

5.2

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

Object class

Sorting
property

RDAP property

RFC
7483

RFC
6350

RFC
8605

Entity

handle

handle

fn

org

voice

jCard fn

jCard org

jCard tel with
type="voice"

email

jCard email

country

country name in jCard
adr

5.1

5.1

5.1

5.1

5.1

5.1

6.2.1

6.6.4

6.4.1

6.4.2

6.3.1

cc

city

country code in jCard adr

5.1

3.1

locality in jCard adr

5.1

6.3.1

Table 1: Deﬁnitions of Sorting Properties

Regarding the deﬁnitions in Table 1, some further considerations are needed to disambiguate
some cases:

•

[RFC5890]

Since the response to a search on either domains or nameservers might include both A-labels
 treat the unicodeName
and U-labels
 be
and ldhName as two representations of the same value. The unicodeName value
used while sorting if it is present; when the unicodeName is unavailable, the value of the
ldhName

 in general, a consistent sorting policy

 be used instead.

MUST

MUST

MUST

•

The jCard "sort-as" parameter
document.

MUST

 be ignored for the sorting capability described in this

•

Even if a nameserver can have multiple IPv4 and IPv6 addresses, the most common
conﬁguration includes one address for each IP version. Therefore, this speciﬁcation makes
the assumption that nameservers have a single IPv4 and/or IPv6 value. When more than one
address per IP version is presented, sorting
MUST

 be applied to the ﬁrst value.

•

Multiple events with a given action on an object might be returned. If this occurs, sorting
MUST

 be applied to the most recent event.

•

Except for handle values, all the sorting properties deﬁned for entity objects can be
multivalued according to the deﬁnition of vCard as given in
value is presented, sorting
MUST
parameter pref="1". If the "pref" parameter is missing, sorting
value.

 be applied to the preferred value identiﬁed by the

[RFC6350]

MUST

 be applied to the ﬁrst

. When more than one

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

The "jsonPath" ﬁeld in the "sorting_metadata" element is used to clarify the RDAP response ﬁeld
the sorting property refers to. The mapping between the sorting properties and the jsonpaths of
the RDAP response ﬁelds is shown below. The JSONPath operators used herein are described in
Appendix A.

•

Searchable objects

registrationDate

$.domainSearchResults[*].events[?(@.eventAction=="registration")].eventDate

reregistrationDate

$.domainSearchResults[*].events[?(@.eventAction=="reregistration")].eventDate

lastChangedDate

$.domainSearchResults[*].events[?(@.eventAction=="last changed")].eventDate

expirationDate

$.domainSearchResults[*].events[?(@.eventAction=="expiration")].eventDate

deletionDate

$.domainSearchResults[*].events[?(@.eventAction=="deletion")].eventDate

reinstantiationDate

$.domainSearchResults[*].events[?(@.eventAction=="reinstantiation")].eventDate

transferDate

$.domainSearchResults[*].events[?(@.eventAction=="transfer")].eventDate

lockedDate

$.domainSearchResults[*].events[?(@.eventAction=="locked")].eventDate

unlockedDate

$.domainSearchResults[*].events[?(@.eventAction=="unlocked")].eventDate

•

Domain

name

$.domainSearchResults[*].[unicodeName,ldhName]

•

Nameserver

name

$.nameserverSearchResults[*].[unicodeName,ldhName]

ipv4

$.nameserverSearchResults[*].ipAddresses.v4[0]

ipv6

$.nameserverSearchResults[*].ipAddresses.v6[0]

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

•

Entity

handle

$.entitySearchResults[*].handle

fn

$.entitySearchResults[*].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=="fn")][3]

org

$.entitySearchResults[*].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=="org")][3]

voice

$.entitySearchResults[*].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=="tel" && @[1].type=="voice")][3]

email

$.entitySearchResults[*].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=="email")][3]

country

$.entitySearchResults[*].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=="adr")][3][6]

cc

$.entitySearchResults[*].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=="adr")][1].cc

city

$.entitySearchResults[*].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=="adr")][3][3]

Additional notes on the provided jsonpaths:

•

Those related to the event dates are deﬁned only for the "domain" object. To obtain the
equivalent jsonpaths for "entity" and "nameserver", the path segment
"domainSearchResults" must be replaced with "entitySearchResults" and
"nameserverSearchResults", respectively.

•

Those related to jCard elements are speciﬁed without taking into account the "pref"
parameter. Servers that sort those values identiﬁed by the "pref" parameter
a jsonpath by adding an appropriate ﬁlter. For example, if the email values identiﬁed by
pref="1" are considered for sorting, the jsonpath of the "email" sorting property should be
$.entitySearchResults[*].vcardArray[1][?(@[0]=="email" && @[1].pref=="1")][3].

SHOULD

 update

2.3.2.  Representing Sorting Links

An RDAP server
MAY
made references
[RFC8288]
reference to an alternate view of the results.

 use the "links" array of the "sorting_metadata" element to provide ready-
 to the available sort criteria (Figure 2). Each link represents a

The "value", "rel", and "href" JSON values

MUST

 be speciﬁed. All other JSON values are

.
OPTIONAL

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

{
  "rdapConformance": [
    "rdap_level_0",
    "sorting"
  ],
  ...
  "sorting_metadata": {
     "currentSort": "name",
     "availableSorts": [
       {
       "property": "registrationDate",
       "jsonPath": "$.domainSearchResults[*]
          .events[?(@.eventAction==\"registration\")].eventDate",
       "default": false,
       "links": [
         {
         "value": "https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com
                   &sort=name",
         "rel": "alternate",
         "href": "https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com
                  &sort=registrationDate",
         "title": "Result Ascending Sort Link",
         "type": "application/rdap+json"
         },
         {
         "value": "https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com
                   &sort=name",
         "rel": "alternate",
         "href": "https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com
                  &sort=registrationDate:d",
         "title": "Result Descending Sort Link",
         "type": "application/rdap+json"
         }
       ]
       },
       ...
     ]
  },
  "domainSearchResults": [
    ...
  ]
}

Figure 2: Example of a "sorting_metadata" Instance to Implement Result Sorting

2.4.  "cursor" Parameter

The "cursor" parameter deﬁned in this speciﬁcation can be used to encode information about
any pagination method. For example, in the case of a simple implementation of the "cursor"
parameter to represent oﬀset pagination information, the "cursor" value
"b2Zmc2V0PTEwMCxsaW1pdD01MA==" is the base64 encoding of "oﬀset=100,limit=50". Likewise,
in a simple implementation to represent keyset pagination information, the "cursor" value
"ZXhhbXBsZS1OLmNvbQ==" represents the base64 encoding of "key=example-N.com" whereby
the key value identiﬁes the last row of the current page.

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

Note that this speciﬁcation uses a base64 encoding for cursor obfuscation just for example. RDAP
 to obfuscate the "cursor" value through a mere base64 encoding.
servers are

NOT RECOMMENDED

This solution lets RDAP providers implement a pagination method according to their needs, a
user's access level, and the submitted query. Besides, servers can change the method over time
without announcing anything to clients. The considerations that have led to this solution are
described in more detail in Appendix B.

The ABNF syntax of the "cursor" parameter is the following:

   cursor = "cursor=" 1*( ALPHA / DIGIT / "/" / "=" / "-" / "_" )

The following is an example of an RDAP query including the "cursor" parameter:

https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com
&cursor=wJlCDLIl6KTWypN7T6vc6nWEmEYe99Hjf1XY1xmqV-M=

2.4.1.  Representing Paging Links

SHOULD

An RDAP server
ready-made reference
additional "rel" values a server

[RFC8288]

 use the "links" array of the "paging_metadata" element to provide a

 to the next page of the result set (Figure 3). Examples of

MAY

 implement are "ﬁrst", "last", and "prev".

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

{
  "rdapConformance": [
    "rdap_level_0",
    "paging"
  ],
  ...
  "notices": [
    {
      "title": "Search query limits",
      "type": "result set truncated due to excessive load",
      "description": [
      "search results for domains are limited to 50"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "paging_metadata": {
    "totalCount": 73,
    "pageSize": 50,
    "pageNumber": 1,
    "links": [
      {
      "value": "https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com",
      "rel": "next",
      "href": "https://example.com/rdap/domains?name=example*.com
              &cursor=wJlCDLIl6KTWypN7T6vc6nWEmEYe99Hjf1XY1xmqV-M=",
      "title": "Result Pagination Link",
      "type": "application/rdap+json"
      }
    ]
  },
  "domainSearchResults": [
    ...
  ]
}

Figure 3: Example of a "paging_metadata" Instance to Implement Cursor Pagination

3.  Negative Answers

The constraints for the values of parameters are deﬁned by their ABNF syntax. Therefore, each
request that includes an invalid value for a parameter
Request) response code. The same response

 be returned in the following cases:

 produce an HTTP 400 (Bad

SHOULD

SHOULD

•

if sorting by either single or multiple properties, the client provides an unsupported value
for the "sort" parameter, as well as a value related to an object property not included in the
response

•

if the client submits an invalid value for the "cursor" parameter

Optionally, the response
sorting properties or the correct "cursor" value in the HTTP entity body (Figure 4).

 include additional information regarding either the supported

MAY

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

{
    "errorCode": 400,
    "title": "Domain sorting property 'unknown' is not valid",
    "description": [
        "Supported domain sorting properties are:"
        "'aproperty', 'anotherproperty'"
    ]

}

Figure 4: Example of RDAP Error Response Due to an Invalid Domain Sorting Property Included in
the Request

4.  Implementation Considerations

Implementation of the new parameters is technically feasible, as operators for counting, sorting,
and paging are currently supported by the major relational database management systems.
Similar operators are completely or partially supported by the most well-known NoSQL
databases (e.g., MongoDB, CouchDB, HBase, Cassandra, Hadoop, etc.). Additional implementation
notes are included in Appendix C.

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following values in the "RDAP Extensions" registry:

paging

Extension identiﬁer:
Any
Registry operator:
Published speciﬁcation:
Contact:
Intended usage:

IETF <iesg@ietf.org>

RFC 8977

This extension describes a best practice for result set paging.

sorting

Extension identiﬁer:
Any
Registry operator:
Published speciﬁcation:
Contact:
Intended usage:

IETF <iesg@ietf.org>

RFC 8977

This extension describes a best practice for result set sorting.

6.  Security Considerations

Security services for the operations speciﬁed in this document are described in

[RFC7481]
.

A search query typically requires more server resources (such as memory, CPU cycles, and
network bandwidth) when compared to a lookup query. This increases the risk of server
resource exhaustion and subsequent denial of service. This risk can be mitigated by either
restricting search functionality or limiting the rate of search requests. Servers can also reduce

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

their load by truncating the results in a response. However, this last security policy can result in
a higher ineﬃciency or risk due to acting on incomplete information if the RDAP server does not
provide any functionality to return the truncated results.

The new parameters presented in this document provide RDAP operators with a way to
implement a server that reduces ineﬃciency risks. The "count" parameter gives the client the
ability to evaluate the completeness of a response. The "sort" parameter allows the client to
obtain the most relevant information at the beginning of the result set. This can reduce the
number of unnecessary search requests. Finally, the "cursor" parameter enables the user to scroll
the result set by submitting a sequence of sustainable queries within server-acceptable limits.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5234]

[RFC5890]

[RFC6350]

[RFC7095]

[RFC7230]

[RFC7231]

[RFC7480]

[RFC7481]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

.

,

,

,

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Deﬁnitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

,

,

.

,

,
Perreault, S. "vCard Format Speciﬁcation" RFC 6350 DOI 10.17487/RFC6350
August 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6350>

,

.

,

Kewisch, P. "jCard: The JSON Format for vCard" RFC 7095 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7095

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7095>

, January 2014,

.

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
, June 2014,
,
Message Syntax and Routing" RFC 7230 DOI 10.17487/RFC7230
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7230>

.

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Semantics and Content" RFC 7231 DOI 10.17487/RFC7231
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7231>

, June 2014,

,
,
.

<https://

,

,
Newton, A., Ellacott, B., and N. Kong "HTTP Usage in the Registration Data
Access Protocol (RDAP)" RFC 7480 DOI 10.17487/RFC7480
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7480>

, March 2015,

,
.

,

<https://

Hollenbeck, S. and N. Kong "Security Services for the Registration Data Access
,
Protocol (RDAP)" RFC 7481 DOI 10.17487/RFC7481
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7481>

, March 2015,

<https://

,
,

.

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

[RFC7482]

[RFC7483]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8288]

[RFC8605]

Newton, A. and S. Hollenbeck "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query
Format" RFC 7482 DOI 10.17487/RFC7482
editor.org/info/rfc7482>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2015,

,

,

.

,

Newton, A. and S. Hollenbeck "JSON Responses for the Registration Data Access
Protocol (RDAP)" RFC 7483 DOI 10.17487/RFC7483
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7483>

, March 2015,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,
Nottingham, M. "Web Linking" RFC 8288 DOI 10.17487/RFC8288
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>

,
.

,

, October 2017,

Hollenbeck, S. and R. Carney "vCard Format Extensions: ICANN Extensions for
the Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP)" RFC 8605 DOI 10.17487/RFC8605
May 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8605>

.

,

,

,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[CURSOR]

[CURSOR-API1]

[CURSOR-API2]

,

Nimesh, R. "Paginating Real-Time Data with Cursor Based Pagination"
2014,
pagination/>

<https://www.sitepoint.com/paginating-real-time-data-cursor-based-

.

, July

Facebook "Facebook for Developers -- Using the Graph API" <https://

,

,

developers.facebook.com/docs/graph-api/using-graph-api>

.

Twitter "Twitter Ads API" <https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/twitter-ads-

,

,

api>

.

[GOESSNER-JSON-PATH]

goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/>

Goessner, S. "JSONPath - XPath for JSON"
.

,

, February 2007,

<https://

[HATEOAS]

Jedrzejewski, B. "HATEOAS - a simple explanation"
www.e4developer.com/2018/02/16/hateoas-simple-explanation/>

, February 2018,

,

.

<https://

[JSONPATH-COMPARISON]

comparison/>

"JSONPath Comparison" <https://cburgmer.github.io/json-path-
.

,

[JSONPATH-WG]
>

.

IETF "JSON Path (jsonpath)" <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/jsonpath/about/

,

,

[ODATA-PART1]

Pizzo, M., Handl, R., and M. Zurmuehl "OData Version 4.0. Part 1: Protocol Plus

,

Errata 03"
complete/part1-protocol/odata-v4.0-errata03-os-part1-protocol-complete.pdf>

<https://docs.oasis-open.org/odata/odata/v4.0/errata03/os/

, June 2016,

.

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

[REST]

[RFC6901]

[SEEK]

,

Fielding, R. "Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-based Software
Architectures"
ﬁelding_dissertation.pdf>

<https://www.ics.uci.edu/~ﬁelding/pubs/dissertation/

, 2000,

.

Bryan, P., Ed., Zyp, K., and M. Nottingham, Ed. "JavaScript Object Notation
(JSON) Pointer" RFC 6901 DOI 10.17487/RFC6901
.
editor.org/info/rfc6901>

, April 2013,

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

,

EverSQL "Faster Pagination in Mysql - Why Order By With Limit and Oﬀset is
<https://www.eversql.com/faster-pagination-in-mysql-why-
Slow?"
order-by-with-limit-and-oﬀset-is-slow/>

, July 2017,

.

[W3C.CR-xpath-31-20170321]

Robie, J., Dyck, M., and J. Spiegel "XML Path Language (XPath)
,
3.1" World Wide Web Consortium Recommendation REC-xpath-31-20170321
March 2017,

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2017/REC-xpath-31-20170321/>

,

.

,

Appendix A.  JSONPath Operators

The jsonpaths used in this document are provided according to the Goessner proposal
.
[GOESSNER-JSON-PATH]

Such speciﬁcation requires that implementations support a set of "basic operators". These
operators are used to access the elements of a JSON structure like objects and arrays, as well as
their subelements (object members and array items, respectively). No operations are deﬁned for
retrieving parent or sibling elements of a given element. The root element is always referred to
as $ regardless of it being an object or array.

Additionally, the speciﬁcation permits implementations to support arbitrary script expressions.
These can be used to index into an object or array, or to ﬁlter elements from an array. While
script expression behavior is implementation-deﬁned, most implementations support the basic
relational and logical operators as well as both object member and array item access, suﬃciently
similar for the purpose of this document. Commonly supported operators/functions divided into
"top-level operators" and "ﬁlter operators" are documented in Tables 2 and 3, respectively.

For more information on implementation interoperability issues, see
At the time of writing, work is beginning on a standardization eﬀort too (see

[JSONPATH-COMPARISON]
.

[JSONPATH-WG]

).

Operator

Description

$

Root element

.<name>

Object member access (dot-notation)

['<name>']

Object member access (bracket-notation)

[<number>]

Array item access

*

All elements within the speciﬁed scope

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

Operator

Description

[?(<expression>)]

Filter expression

Table 2: JSONPath Top-Level Operators

Operator

Description

@

Current element being processed

.<name>

Object member access

.[<name1>,<name2>]

Union of object members

[<number>]

Array item access

==

!=

<

<=

>

>=

&&

||

Left is equal to right

Left is not equal to right

Left is less than right

Left is less than or equal to right

Left is greater than right

Left is greater than or equal to right

Logical conjunction

Logical disjunction

Table 3: JSONPath Filter Operators

Appendix B.  Approaches to Result Pagination

An RDAP query could return a response with hundreds, even thousands, of objects, especially
when partial matching is used. For this reason, the "cursor" parameter addressing result
pagination is deﬁned to make responses easier to handle.

Presently, the most popular methods to implement pagination in a REST API include oﬀset
pagination and keyset pagination. Neither pagination method requires the server to handle the
result set in a storage area across multiple requests since a new result set is generated each time
a request is submitted. Therefore, they are preferred to any other method requiring the
management of a REST session.

Using limit and oﬀset operators represents the traditionally used method to implement result
pagination. Both of them can be used individually:

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

"limit=N":

means that the server returns the ﬁrst N objects of the result set

"oﬀset=N":

means that the server skips the ﬁrst N objects and returns objects starting from

position N+1

When limit and oﬀset are used together, they provide the ability to identify a speciﬁc portion of
the result set. For example, the pair "oﬀset=100,limit=50" returns the ﬁrst 50 objects starting from
position 101 of the result set.

Though easy to implement, oﬀset pagination also includes drawbacks:

•

When oﬀset has a very high value, scrolling the result set could take some time.

•

It always requires fetching all rows before dropping as many rows as speciﬁed by oﬀset.

•

It may return inconsistent pages when data are frequently updated (i.e., real-time data).

[SEEK]

 adds a query condition that enables the selection of the only data not

Keyset pagination
yet returned. This method has been taken as the basis for the implementation of a "cursor"
parameter
URL-safe string opaque to the client and representing a logical pointer to the ﬁrst result of the
next page.

[CURSOR-API1] [CURSOR-API2]

 by some REST API providers

[CURSOR]

. The cursor is a

Nevertheless, even keyset pagination can be troublesome:

•

It needs at least one key ﬁeld.

•

It does not allow sorting simply by any ﬁeld because the sorting criterion must contain a key.

•

It works best with full composite values supported by database management systems (i.e.,
[x,y]>[a,b]); emulation is possible but inelegant and less eﬃcient.

•

It does not allow direct navigation to arbitrary pages because the result set must be scrolled
in sequential order starting from the initial page.

•

Implementing bidirectional navigation is tedious because all comparison and sort operations
have to be reversed.

B.1.  Speciﬁc Issues Raised by RDAP

Some additional considerations can be made in the RDAP context:

•

An RDAP object is a conceptual aggregation of information generally collected from more
than one data structure (e.g., table), and this makes it even harder to implement keyset
pagination, a task that is already quite diﬃcult. For example, the entity object can include
information from diﬀerent data structures (registrars, registrants, contacts, resellers), each
one with its key ﬁeld mapping the RDAP entity handle.

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

•

Depending on the number of page results as well as the number and the complexity of the
properties of each RDAP object in the response, the time required by oﬀset pagination to skip
the previous pages could be much faster than the processing time needed to build the
current page. In fact, RDAP objects are usually formed by information belonging to multiple
data structures and containing multivalued properties (i.e., arrays); therefore, data selection
might be a time-consuming process. This situation occurs even though the selection is
supported by indexes.

•

Depending on the access levels deﬁned by each RDAP operator, the increase in complexity
and the decrease in ﬂexibility of keyset pagination in comparison to oﬀset pagination could
be considered impractical.

Ultimately, both pagination methods have beneﬁts and drawbacks.

Appendix C.  Implementation Notes

This section contains an overview of the main choices made during the implementation of the
capabilities deﬁned in this document in the RDAP public test server of Registro.it at the Institute
of Informatics and Telematics of the National Research Council (IIT-CNR). The content of this
section can represent guidance for implementers who plan to provide RDAP users with those
capabilities. The RDAP public test server can be accessed at
documentation about the server features is available at
.
README.html>

<https://rdap.pubtest.nic.it/>
<https://rdap.pubtest.nic.it/doc/

. Further

C.1.  Sorting

If no sort criterion is speciﬁed in the query string, the results are sorted by a default property:
"name" for domains and nameservers, and "handle" for entities. The server supports multiple
property sorting but the "sorting_metadata" object includes only the links to alternative result set
views sorted by a single property just to show the list of sorting properties allowed for each
searchable object. The server supports all the object-speciﬁc sorting properties described in the
speciﬁcation except for nameserver sorting based on unicodeName, that is, the "name" sorting
property is mapped onto the "ldhName" response ﬁeld. Regarding the object-common properties,
sorting by registrationDate, expirationDate, lastChangedDate, and transferDate is supported.

C.2.  Counting

The counting operation is implemented through a separate query. Some relational database
management systems support custom operators to get the total count together with the rows, but
the resulting query can be considerably more expensive than that performed without the total
count. Therefore, as "totalCount" is an optional response information, always fetching the total
number of rows has been considered an ineﬃcient solution. Furthermore, to avoid the
processing of unnecessary queries, when the "count" parameter is included in the submitted
query, it is not also repeated in the query strings of the "links" array provided in both
"paging_metadata" and "sorting_metadata" objects.

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8977

RDAP Sorting and Paging

January 2021

C.3.  Paging

The server implements the cursor pagination through the keyset pagination when sorting by a
unique property is requested or the default sort is applied. Otherwise, it implements the cursor
pagination through the oﬀset pagination. As most relational database management systems don't
support the comparison of full composite values natively, the implementation of full keyset
pagination seem to be troublesome so, at least initially, a selective applicability of keyset
pagination is advisable. Moreover, the "cursor" value encodes not only information about
pagination but also about the search pattern and the other query parameters in order to check
the consistency of the entire query string. If the "cursor" value is inconsistent with the rest of the
query string, the server returns an error response.

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to acknowledge
Singh Erik Kline Éric Vyncke Benjamin Kaduk
,
the development of this document.

,

,

Brian Mountford Tom Harrison Karl Heinz Wolf Jasdip

,

,

,

, and

Roman Danyliw

 for their contributions to

Authors' Addresses

Mario Loﬀredo
IIT-CNR/Registro.it
Via Moruzzi,1
56124 Pisa
Italy
Email:
URI:

 mario.loﬀredo@iit.cnr.it

 https://www.iit.cnr.it

Maurizio Martinelli
IIT-CNR/Registro.it
Via Moruzzi,1
56124 Pisa
Italy
Email:
URI:

 https://www.iit.cnr.it

 maurizio.martinelli@iit.cnr.it

Scott Hollenbeck
Verisign Labs
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
Email:
URI:

,

 shollenbeck@verisign.com
 https://www.verisignlabs.com/

Loﬀredo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

