Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8888
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
Z. Sarker
Ericsson AB

C. Perkins
University of Glasgow

V. Singh
callstats.io

M. Ramalho
AcousticComms

RFC 8888
RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Feedback for
Congestion Control

Abstract

An eﬀective RTP congestion control algorithm requires more ﬁne-grained feedback on packet
loss, timing, and Explicit Congestion Notiﬁcation (ECN) marks than is provided by the standard
RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Sender Report (SR) and Receiver Report (RR) packets. This document
describes an RTCP feedback message intended to enable congestion control for interactive real-
time traﬃc using RTP. The feedback message is designed for use with a sender-based congestion
control algorithm, in which the receiver of an RTP ﬂow sends back to the sender RTCP feedback
packets containing the information the sender needs to perform congestion control.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8888

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8888

Congestion Control Feedback in RTCP

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  RTCP Feedback for Congestion Control

3.1.  RTCP Congestion Control Feedback Report

4.  Feedback Frequency and Overhead

5.  Response to Loss of Feedback Packets

6.  SDP Signaling

7.  Relationship to RFC 6679

8.  Design Rationale

9.  IANA Considerations

10. Security Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC3550]

For interactive real-time traﬃc, such as video conferencing ﬂows, the typical protocol choice is
 running over the User Datagram Protocol
the Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP)
(UDP). RTP does not provide any guarantee of Quality of Service (QoS), reliability, or timely
delivery, and expects the underlying transport protocol to do so. UDP alone certainly does not
meet that expectation. However, the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP)
mechanism by which the receiver of an RTP ﬂow can periodically send transport and media
quality metrics to the sender of that RTP ﬂow. This information can be used by the sender to
perform congestion control. In the absence of standardized messages for this purpose, designers
of congestion control algorithms have developed proprietary RTCP messages that convey only
those parameters needed for their respective designs. As a direct result, the diﬀerent congestion

 provides a

[RFC3550]

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8888

Congestion Control Feedback in RTCP

January 2021

control designs are not interoperable. To enable algorithm evolution as well as interoperability
across designs (e.g., diﬀerent rate adaptation algorithms), it is highly desirable to have a generic
congestion control feedback format.

To help achieve interoperability for unicast RTP congestion control, this memo speciﬁes a
common RTCP feedback packet format that can be used by Network-Assisted Dynamic
, Self-Clocked Rate Adaptation for Multimedia (SCReAM)
Adaptation (NADA)
Google Congestion Control
, and Shared Bottleneck Detection
hopefully, also by future RTP congestion control algorithms.

[Google-GCC]

[RFC8698]

[RFC8382]

, and,

[RFC8298]

,

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

In addition, the terminology deﬁned in

,
[RFC3550] [RFC4585]

, and

[RFC5506]

 applies.

3.  RTCP Feedback for Congestion Control

Based on an analysis of NADA
GCC]
control feedback information has been determined to be necessary:

, and Shared Bottleneck Detection

[RFC8298]

[RFC8382]

[RFC8698]

, SCReAM

, Google Congestion Control

[Google-

, the following per-RTP packet congestion

RTP Sequence Number:

The receiver of an RTP ﬂow needs to feed the sequence numbers of the

received RTP packets back to the sender, so the sender can determine which packets were
received and which were lost. Packet loss is used as an indication of congestion by many
congestion control algorithms.

Packet Arrival Time:

The receiver of an RTP ﬂow needs to feed the arrival time of each RTP

packet back to the sender. Packet delay and/or delay variation (jitter) is used as a congestion
signal by some congestion control algorithms.

Packet Explicit Congestion Notiﬁcation (ECN) Marking:

If ECN

[RFC3168] [RFC6679]

 is used, it is

necessary to feed back the 2-bit ECN mark in received RTP packets, indicating for each RTP
packet whether it is marked not-ECT, ECT(0), ECT(1), or ECN Congestion Experienced (ECN-CE).
("ECT" stands for "ECN-Capable Transport".) If the path used by the RTP traﬃc is ECN capable,
the sender can use ECN-CE marking information as a congestion control signal.

Every RTP ﬂow is identiﬁed by its Synchronization Source (SSRC) identiﬁer. Accordingly, the
RTCP feedback format needs to group its reports by SSRC, sending one report block per received
SSRC.

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8888

Congestion Control Feedback in RTCP

January 2021

As a practical matter, we note that host operating system (OS) process interruptions can occur at
inopportune times. Accordingly, recording RTP packet send times at the sender, and the
corresponding RTP packet arrival times at the receiver, needs to be done with deliberate care.
This is because the time duration of host OS interruptions can be signiﬁcant relative to the
precision desired in the one-way delay estimates. Speciﬁcally, the send time needs to be recorded
at the last opportunity prior to transmitting the RTP packet at the sender, and the arrival time at
the receiver needs to be recorded at the earliest available opportunity.

3.1.  RTCP Congestion Control Feedback Report

Congestion control feedback can be sent as part of a regular scheduled RTCP report or in an RTP/
 be sent in
AVPF early feedback packet. If sent as early feedback, congestion control feedback
a non-compound RTCP packet
proﬁle

 if the RTP/AVPF proﬁle

 or the RTP/SAVPF

[RFC5506]

[RFC4585]

[RFC5124]

 is used.

MAY

Irrespective of how it is transported, the congestion control feedback is sent as a Transport-Layer
Feedback Message (RTCP packet type 205). The format of this RTCP packet is shown in Figure 1:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |V=2|P| FMT=11  |   PT = 205    |          length               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                 SSRC of RTCP packet sender                    |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                   SSRC of 1st RTP Stream                      |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |          begin_seq            |          num_reports          |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |R|ECN|  Arrival time offset    | ...                           .
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  .                                                               .
  .                                                               .
  .                                                               .
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                   SSRC of nth RTP Stream                      |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |          begin_seq            |          num_reports          |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |R|ECN|  Arrival time offset    | ...                           |
  .                                                               .
  .                                                               .
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                 Report Timestamp (32 bits)                    |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: RTCP Congestion Control Feedback Packet Format

The ﬁrst 8 octets comprise a standard RTCP header, with PT=205 and FMT=11 indicating that this
is a congestion control feedback packet, and with the SSRC set to that of the sender of the RTCP
packet.

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8888

Congestion Control Feedback in RTCP

January 2021

Section 6.1 of [RFC4585]
being reported upon. Accordingly, the RTCP header is followed by a report block for each SSRC
from which RTP packets have been received, followed by a Report Timestamp.

 requires the RTCP header to be followed by the SSRC of the RTP ﬂow

Each report block begins with the SSRC of the received RTP stream on which it is reporting.
Following this, the report block contains a 16-bit packet metric block for each RTP packet that has
a sequence number in the range begin_seq to begin_seq+num_reports inclusive (calculated using
arithmetic modulo 65536 to account for possible sequence number wrap-around). If the number
of 16-bit packet metric blocks included in the report block is not a multiple of two, then 16 bits of
zero padding
metric blocks with the next 32-bit boundary. The value of num_reports
MAY
there are no packet metric blocks included for that SSRC. Each report block
more than 16384 packet metric blocks (i.e., it
sequence number space in a single report).

 be added after the last packet metric block, to align the end of the packet

 be 0, indicating that
MUST NOT

 report on more than one quarter of the

MUST NOT

 include

MUST

The contents of each 16-bit packet metric block comprise the R, ECN, and ATO ﬁelds as follows:

Received (R, 1 bit):

A boolean that indicates whether the packet was received.  0 indicates that

the packet was not yet received and the subsequent 15 bits (ECN and ATO) in this 16-bit packet
metric block are also set to 0 and
and the subsequent bits in the block need to be parsed.

 be ignored. 1 indicates that the packet was received

MUST

ECN (2 bits):

The echoed ECN mark of the packet. These bits are set to 00 if not received or if

ECN is not used.

Arrival time oﬀset (ATO, 13 bits):

The arrival time of the RTP packet at the receiver, as an oﬀset

before the time represented by the Report Timestamp (RTS) ﬁeld of this RTCP congestion
control feedback report. The ATO ﬁeld is in units of 1/1024 seconds (this unit is chosen to give
exact oﬀsets from the RTS ﬁeld) so, for example, an ATO value of 512 indicates that the
corresponding RTP packet arrived exactly half a second before the time instant represented
by the RTS ﬁeld. If the measured value is greater than 8189/1024 seconds (the value that
would be coded as 0x1FFD), the value 0x1FFE
 be reported to indicate an over-range
measurement. If the measurement is unavailable or if the arrival time of the RTP packet is
after the time represented by the RTS ﬁeld, then an ATO value of 0x1FFF
the packet.

MUST

MUST

 be reported for

The RTCP congestion control feedback report packet concludes with the Report Timestamp ﬁeld
(RTS, 32 bits). This denotes the time instant on which this packet is reporting and is the instant
from which the arrival time oﬀset values are calculated. The value of the RTS ﬁeld is derived
from the same clock used to generate the NTP timestamp ﬁeld in RTCP Sender Report (SR)
packets. It is formatted as the middle 32 bits of an NTP format timestamp, as described in
.
4 of [RFC3550]

Section

RTCP Congestion Control Feedback Packets
 include a report block for every active SSRC.
SHOULD
The sequence number ranges reported on in consecutive reports for a given SSRC will generally
be contiguous, but overlapping reports
packet reordering occurs across the boundary between consecutive reports). If an RTP packet

 be sent (and need to be sent in cases where RTP

MAY

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8888

Congestion Control Feedback in RTCP

January 2021

was reported as received in one report, that packet
overlapping reports sent later that cover its sequence number range. If feedback reports
covering overlapping sequence number ranges are sent, information in later feedback reports
may update any data sent in previous reports for RTP packets included in both feedback reports.

 also be reported as received in any

MUST

RTCP Congestion Control Feedback Packets can be large if they are sent infrequently relative to
the number of RTP data packets. If an RTCP Congestion Control Feedback Packet is too large to ﬁt
within the path MTU, its sender
reporting interval
SHOULD
are small enough to ﬁt within the path MTU. (
 discusses how to
choose the reporting interval; speciﬁcations for RTP congestion control algorithms can also
provide guidance.)

 be chosen such that feedback packets are sent often enough that they

 split it into multiple feedback packets. The RTCP

[RTCP-Multimedia-Feedback]

SHOULD

If duplicate copies of a particular RTP packet are received, then the arrival time of the ﬁrst copy
to arrive
an ECN-CE mark
arrive is reported.

 be reported. If any of the copies of the duplicated packet are ECN-CE marked, then

 be reported for that packet; otherwise, the ECN mark of the ﬁrst copy to

MUST

MUST

If no packets are received from an SSRC in a reporting interval, a report block
begin_seq set to the highest sequence number previously received from that SSRC and
num_reports set to 0 (or the report can simply be omitted). The corresponding Sender Report /
Receiver Report (SR/RR) packet will have a non-increased extended highest sequence number
received ﬁeld that will inform the sender that no packets have been received, but it can ease
processing to have that information available in the congestion control feedback reports too.

MAY

 be sent with

A report block indicating that certain RTP packets were lost is not to be interpreted as a request
to retransmit the lost packets. The receiver of such a report might choose to retransmit such
packets, provided a retransmission payload format has been negotiated, but there is no
requirement that it do so.

4.  Feedback Frequency and Overhead

There is a trade-oﬀ between speed and accuracy of reporting, and the overhead of the reports.
[RTCP-Multimedia-Feedback]
provides guidance on how to conﬁgure, for example, the RTCP bandwidth fraction to make
appropriate use of the reporting block described in this memo. Speciﬁcations for RTP congestion
control algorithms can also provide guidance.

 discusses this trade-oﬀ, suggests desirable RTCP feedback rates, and

It is generally understood that congestion control algorithms work better with more frequent
feedback. However, RTCP bandwidth and transmission rules put some upper limits on how
frequently the RTCP feedback messages can be sent from an RTP receiver to the RTP sender. In
many cases, sending feedback once per frame is an upper bound before the reporting overhead
becomes excessive, although this will depend on the media rate and more frequent feedback
might be needed with high-rate media ﬂows
requirements]
with less frequent feedback, using a feedback interval range of 50-200 ms. Applications need to

[feedback-
 has also shown that some candidate congestion control algorithms can operate

[RTCP-Multimedia-Feedback]

. Analysis

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8888

Congestion Control Feedback in RTCP

January 2021

negotiate an appropriate congestion control feedback interval at session setup time, based on the
choice of congestion control algorithm, the expected media bitrate, and the acceptable feedback
overhead.

5.  Response to Loss of Feedback Packets

Like all RTCP packets, RTCP Congestion Control Feedback Packets might be lost. All RTP
congestion control algorithms

 specify how they respond to the loss of feedback packets.

MUST

RTCP packets do not contain a sequence number, so loss of feedback packets has to be inferred
based on the time since the last feedback packet. If only a single congestion control feedback
packet is lost, an appropriate response is to assume that the level of congestion has remained
roughly the same as the previous report. However, if multiple consecutive congestion control
feedback packets are lost, then the media sender
likely indicates a path failure. The RTP circuit breaker speciﬁcation
guidance.

 rapidly reduce its sending rate as this
 provides further

[RFC8083]

SHOULD

6.  SDP Signaling

A new "ack" feedback parameter, "ccfb", is deﬁned for use with the "a=rtcp-fb:" Session
Description Protocol (SDP) extension to indicate the use of the RTP Congestion Control Feedback
Packet format deﬁned in Section 3. The ABNF deﬁnition
extension is:

 of this SDP parameter

[RFC5234]

        rtcp-fb-ack-param = <See Section 4.2 of [RFC4585]>
        rtcp-fb-ack-param =/ ccfb-par
        ccfb-par          = SP "ccfb"

The payload type used with "ccfb" feedback
congestion control feedback is sent for all payload types in use in the session, including any
Forward Error Correction (FEC) and retransmission payload types. An example of the resulting
SDP attribute is:

 be the wildcard type ("*"). This implies that the

MUST

        a=rtcp-fb:* ack ccfb

The oﬀer/answer rules for these SDP feedback parameters are speciﬁed in
AVPF proﬁle [RFC4585]

.

Section 4.2 of the RTP/

An SDP oﬀer might indicate support for both the congestion control feedback mechanism
speciﬁed in this memo and one or more alternative congestion control feedback mechanisms
that oﬀer substantially the same semantics. In this case, the answering party
 include
only one of the oﬀered congestion control feedback mechanisms in its answer. If a subsequent
oﬀer containing the same set of congestion control feedback mechanisms is received, the
generated answer
original answer where possible.

 choose the same congestion control feedback mechanism as in the

SHOULD

SHOULD

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8888

Congestion Control Feedback in RTCP

January 2021

When the SDP BUNDLE extension
has multiplexing category IDENTICAL-PER-PT

[RFC8843]

[RFC8859]

.

 is used for multiplexing, the "a=rtcp-fb:" attribute

7.  Relationship to RFC 6679

The use of Explicit Congestion Notiﬁcation (ECN) with RTP is described in
speciﬁes how to negotiate the use of ECN with RTP and deﬁnes an RTCP ECN Feedback Packet to
carry ECN feedback reports. It uses an SDP "a=ecn-capable-rtp:" attribute to negotiate the use of
ECN, and the "a=rtcp-fb:" attribute with the "nack" parameter "ecn" to negotiate the use of RTCP
ECN Feedback Packets.

[RFC6679]

, which

The RTCP ECN Feedback Packet is not useful when ECN is used with the RTP Congestion Control
Feedback Packet deﬁned in this memo, since it provides duplicate information. When congestion
control feedback is to be used with RTP and ECN, the SDP oﬀer generated
"a=ecn-capable-rtp:" attribute to negotiate ECN support, along with an "a=rtcp-fb:" attribute with
the "ack" parameter "ccfb" to indicate that the RTP Congestion Control Feedback Packet can be
used. The "a=rtcp-fb:" attribute
RTCP ECN Feedback Packet is also supported. If an SDP oﬀer signals support for both RTP
Congestion Control Feedback Packets and the RTCP ECN Feedback Packet, the answering party
 signal support for one, but not both, formats in its SDP answer to avoid sending
SHOULD
duplicate feedback.

 also include the "nack" parameter "ecn" to indicate that the

 include an

MUST

MAY

Section 7.2 of [RFC6679] MUST
Section 7.3 of [RFC6679]

When using ECN with RTP, the guidelines in
the use of ECN in an RTP session. The guidelines in
ongoing use of ECN within an RTP session
feedback is sent using the RTCP Congestion Control Feedback Packets described in this memo
rather than using RTP ECN Feedback Packets. Similarly, the guidance in
related to detecting failures
is retrieved from the RTCP Congestion Control Feedback Packets rather than from RTP ECN
Feedback Packets.

 be followed to initiate
 regarding the
 also be followed, with the exception that

 be followed, with the exception that the necessary information

Section 7.4 of [RFC6679]

MUST

MUST

8.  Design Rationale

The primary function of RTCP SR/RR packets is to report statistics on the reception of RTP
packets. The reception report blocks sent in these packets contain information about observed
jitter, fractional packet loss, and cumulative packet loss. It was intended that this information
could be used to support congestion control algorithms, but experience has shown that it is not
suﬃcient for that purpose. An eﬃcient congestion control algorithm requires more ﬁne-grained
information on per-packet reception quality than is provided by SR/RR packets to react
eﬀectively. The feedback format deﬁned in this memo provides such ﬁne-grained feedback.

Several other RTCP extensions also provide more detailed feedback than SR/RR packets:

TMMBR:

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8888

Congestion Control Feedback in RTCP

January 2021

[RFC5104]

. This approach requires the receiver of the RTP packets to monitor their reception,

 include a Temporary
The codec control messages for the RTP/AVPF proﬁle
Maximum Media Stream Bit Rate Request (TMMBR) message. This is used to convey a
temporary maximum bitrate limitation from a receiver of RTP packets to their sender. Even
though it was not designed to replace congestion control, TMMBR has been used as a means to
do receiver-based congestion control where the session bandwidth is high enough to send
frequent TMMBR messages, especially when used with non-compound RTCP packets
[RFC5506]
determine the level of congestion, and recommend a maximum bitrate suitable for current
available bandwidth on the path; it also assumes that the RTP sender can /will respect that
bitrate. This is the opposite of the sender-based congestion control approach suggested in this
memo, so TMMBR cannot be used to convey the information needed for sender-based
congestion control. TMMBR could, however, be viewed as a complementary mechanism that
can inform the sender of the receiver's current view of an acceptable maximum bitrate.
Mechanisms that convey the receiver's estimate of the maximum available bitrate provide
similar feedback.

Numerous RTCP XR blocks have been deﬁned to report details of

RTCP Extended Reports (XRs):
packet loss, arrival times
. It is
possible to combine several such XR blocks into a compound RTCP packet, to report the
detailed loss, arrival time, and ECN marking information needed for eﬀective sender-based
congestion control. However, the result has high overhead in terms of both bandwidth and
complexity, due to the need to stack multiple reports.

, and ECN marking

[RFC6679]

[RFC3611]

[RFC6843]

, delay

Transport-wide Congestion Control:

The format deﬁned in this memo provides individual

feedback on each SSRC. An alternative is to add a header extension to each RTP packet,
containing a single, transport-wide, packet sequence number, then have the receiver send
RTCP reports giving feedback on these additional sequence numbers
approach increases the size of each RTP packet by 8 octets, due to the header extension, but
reduces the size of the RTCP feedback packets, and can simplify the rate calculation at the
sender if it maintains a single rate limit that applies to all RTP packets sent, irrespective of
their SSRC. Equally, the use of transport-wide feedback makes it more diﬃcult to adapt the
sending rate, or respond to lost packets, based on the reception and/or loss patterns observed
on a per-SSRC basis (for example, to perform diﬀerential rate control and repair for audio and
video ﬂows, based on knowledge of what packets from each ﬂow were lost). Transport-wide
feedback is also a less natural ﬁt with the wider RTP framework, which makes extensive use
of per-SSRC sequence numbers and feedback.

[RTP-Ext-for-CC]

. Such an

Considering these issues, we believe it appropriate to design a new RTCP feedback mechanism to
convey information for sender-based congestion control algorithms. The new congestion control
feedback RTCP packet described in Section 3 provides such a mechanism.

9.  IANA Considerations

The IANA has registered one new RTP/AVPF Transport-Layer Feedback Message in the "FMT
Values for RTPFB Payload Types" table

 as deﬁned in Section 3.1:

[RFC4585]

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8888

Congestion Control Feedback in RTCP

January 2021

Name:
Long name:
Value:
Reference:

CCFB
RTP Congestion Control Feedback
11
RFC 8888

The IANA has also registered one new SDP "rtcp-fb" attribute "ack" parameter, "ccfb", in the SDP
'"ack" and "nack" Attribute Values' registry:

Value name:
Long name:
Usable with:
Mux:
Reference:

ccfb
Congestion Control Feedback
ack
IDENTICAL-PER-PT
RFC 8888

10.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of the RTP speciﬁcation
[RFC3551] [RFC3711]
[RFC4585]
,
[RFC8698] [RFC8298] [Google-GCC]
,

, the applicable RTP proﬁle (e.g.,
), and the RTP congestion control algorithm being used (e.g.,
, or

[RFC3550]

[RFC8382]

, or
,

) apply.

A receiver that intentionally generates inaccurate RTCP congestion control feedback reports
might be able to trick the sender into sending at a greater rate than the path can support, thereby
causing congestion on the path. This scenario will negatively impact the quality of experience of
that receiver, potentially causing both denial of service to other traﬃc sharing the path and
excessively increased resource usage at the media sender. Since RTP is an unreliable transport, a
sender can intentionally drop a packet, leaving a gap in the RTP sequence number space without
causing serious harm, to check that the receiver is correctly reporting losses. (This needs to be
done with care and some awareness of the media data being sent, to limit impact on the user
experience.)

An on-path attacker that can modify RTCP Congestion Control Feedback Packets can change the
reports to trick the sender into sending at either an excessively high or excessively low rate,
leading to denial of service. The secure RTCP proﬁle
packets to protect against this attack.

 can be used to authenticate RTCP

[RFC3711]

An oﬀ-path attacker that can spoof RTCP Congestion Control Feedback Packets can similarly trick
a sender into sending at an incorrect rate, leading to denial of service. This attack is diﬃcult,
since the attacker needs to guess the SSRC and sequence number in addition to the destination
transport address. As with on-path attacks, the secure RTCP proﬁle
authenticate RTCP packets to protect against this attack.

 can be used to

[RFC3711]

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8888

Congestion Control Feedback in RTCP

January 2021

[RFC2119]

[RFC3168]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3551]

[RFC3711]

[RFC4585]

[RFC5124]

[RFC5234]

[RFC5506]

[RFC6679]

[RFC8083]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Ramakrishnan, K., Floyd, S., and D. Black "The Addition of Explicit Congestion
Notiﬁcation (ECN) to IP" RFC 3168 DOI 10.17487/RFC3168
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3168>

, September 2001,

,

,

.

,

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
,
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

.

,

,

,

Schulzrinne, H. and S. Casner "RTP Proﬁle for Audio and Video Conferences
, July 2003,
,
with Minimal Control" STD 65 RFC 3551 DOI 10.17487/RFC3551
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3551>

,
,

,

Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K. Norrman "The Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, March

,
.

,

,

Ott, J., Wenger, S., Sato, N., Burmeister, C., and J. Rey "Extended RTP Proﬁle for
Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" RFC
,
4585 DOI 10.17487/RFC4585
rfc4585>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2006,

,

.

,

Ott, J. and E. Carrara "Extended Secure RTP Proﬁle for Real-time Transport
Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/SAVPF)" RFC 5124 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5124

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5124>

, February 2008,

,

,

.

,

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

Johansson, I. and M. Westerlund "Support for Reduced-Size Real-Time
,
Transport Control Protocol (RTCP): Opportunities and Consequences" RFC 5506
DOI 10.17487/RFC5506

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5506>

, April 2009,

.

,

,

Westerlund, M., Johansson, I., Perkins, C., O'Hanlon, P., and K. Carlberg "Explicit
Congestion Notiﬁcation (ECN) for RTP over UDP" RFC 6679 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6679

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6679>

, August 2012,

,

,

.

,

Perkins, C. and V. Singh "Multimedia Congestion Control: Circuit Breakers for
,
Unicast RTP Sessions" RFC 8083 DOI 10.17487/RFC8083
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8083>

, March 2017,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8888

Congestion Control Feedback in RTCP

January 2021

[RFC8843]

[RFC8859]

Holmberg, C., Alvestrand, H., and C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8843 DOI 10.17487/RFC8843
January 2021,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8843>
.

,
,

,

,

Nandakumar, S. "A Framework for Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Attributes When Multiplexing" RFC 8859 DOI 10.17487/RFC8859
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8859>
.

, January 2021,

11.2.  Informative References

[feedback-requirements]

"RMCAT Feedback Requirements" IETF 95

,

, April 2016,

<https://

[Google-GCC]

[RFC3611]

[RFC5104]

[RFC6843]

[RFC8298]

[RFC8382]

[RFC8698]

www.ietf.org/proceedings/95/slides/slides-95-rmcat-1.pdf>

.

Holmer, S., Lundin, H., Carlucci, G., De Cicco, L., and S. Mascolo "A Google
Congestion Control Algorithm for Real-Time Communication" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-rmcat-gcc-02
draft-ietf-rmcat-gcc-02>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/

, 8 July 2016,

,

,

.

,

Friedman, T., Ed., Caceres, R., Ed., and A. Clark, Ed. "RTP Control Protocol
Extended Reports (RTCP XR)" RFC 3611 DOI 10.17487/RFC3611
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3611>

.

,

,

, November 2003,

Wenger, S., Chandra, U., Westerlund, M., and B. Burman "Codec Control
Messages in the RTP Audio-Visual Proﬁle with Feedback (AVPF)" RFC 5104 DOI
10.17487/RFC5104

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5104>

, February 2008,

,

.

,

Clark, A., Gross, K., and Q. Wu "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended Report
,
(XR) Block for Delay Metric Reporting" RFC 6843 DOI 10.17487/RFC6843
January 2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6843>

,

,

.

,

,
Johansson, I. and Z. Sarker "Self-Clocked Rate Adaptation for Multimedia" RFC
,
8298 DOI 10.17487/RFC8298
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8298>

, December 2017,

,

.

Hayes, D., Ed., Ferlin, S., Welzl, M., and K. Hiorth "Shared Bottleneck Detection
for Coupled Congestion Control for RTP Media" RFC 8382 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8382

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8382>

, June 2018,

,

,

.

,

Zhu, X., Pan, R., Ramalho, M., and S. Mena "Network-Assisted Dynamic
Adaptation (NADA): A Uniﬁed Congestion Control Scheme for Real-Time Media"
RFC 8698 DOI 10.17487/RFC8698
info/rfc8698>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2020,

,

.

,

,

[RTCP-Multimedia-Feedback]

Perkins, C. "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Feedback for

,

,
Congestion Control in Interactive Multimedia Conferences" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-rmcat-rtp-cc-feedback-05
<https://
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-rmcat-rtp-cc-feedback-05>

,
, 4 November 2019,

.

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8888

Congestion Control Feedback in RTCP

January 2021

[RTP-Ext-for-CC]

Holmer, S., Flodman, M., and E. Sprang "RTP Extensions for Transport-wide

,

Congestion Control" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-holmer-rmcat-
transport-wide-cc-extensions-01
draft-holmer-rmcat-transport-wide-cc-extensions-01>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/

, 19 October 2015,

.

,

,

Acknowledgements

This document is based on the outcome of a design team discussion in the RTP Media Congestion
Avoidance Techniques (RMCAT) Working Group. The authors would like to thank
Stefan Holmer Randell Jesup Ingemar Johansson Jonathan Lennox Sergio Mena Nils Ohlmeier
Magnus Westerlund

David Hayes
,

 for their valuable feedback.

Xiaoqing Zhu

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Zaheduzzaman Sarker
Ericsson AB
Torshamnsgatan 23
SE-
164 83 Stockholm
Sweden
Phone:
Email:

 +46 10 717 37 43
 zaheduzzaman.sarker@ericsson.com

Colin Perkins
University of Glasgow
School of Computing Science
Glasgow
G12 8QQ
United Kingdom
Email:

 csp@csperkins.org

Varun Singh
CALLSTATS I/O Oy
Annankatu 31-33 C 42
00100 Helsinki
FI-
Finland
Email:
URI:

 varun.singh@iki.ﬁ
 https://www.callstats.io/

Michael A. Ramalho
AcousticComms Consulting
6310 Watercrest Way Unit 203
Lakewood Ranch FL 34202-5122
United States of America
 +1 732 832 9723
Phone:
Email:
 mar42@cornell.edu
URI:

 http://ramalho.webhop.info/

,

Sarker, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

