Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8801
Standards Track
July 2020
2070-1721
P. Pﬁster
Cisco

T. Pauly
Apple Inc.

É. Vyncke
Cisco

D. Schinazi
Google LLC

W. Shao
Cisco

RFC 8801
Discovering Provisioning Domain Names and Data

Abstract

Provisioning Domains (PvDs) are deﬁned as consistent sets of network conﬁguration
information. PvDs allows hosts to manage connections to multiple networks and interfaces
simultaneously, such as when a home router provides connectivity through both a broadband
and cellular network provider.

This document deﬁnes a mechanism for explicitly identifying PvDs through a Router
Advertisement (RA) option. This RA option announces a PvD identiﬁer, which hosts can compare
to diﬀerentiate between PvDs. The option can directly carry some information about a PvD and
can optionally point to PvD Additional Information that can be retrieved using HTTP over TLS.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8801

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Speciﬁcation of Requirements

2.  Terminology

3.  Provisioning Domain Identiﬁcation Using Router Advertisements

3.1.  PvD Option for Router Advertisements

3.2.  Router Behavior

3.3.  Non-PvD-Aware Host Behavior

3.4.  PvD-Aware Host Behavior

3.4.1.  DHCPv6 Conﬁguration Association

3.4.2.  DHCPv4 Conﬁguration Association

3.4.3.  Connection Sharing by the Host

3.4.4.  Usage of DNS Servers

4.  Provisioning Domain Additional Information

4.1.  Retrieving the PvD Additional Information

4.2.  Operational Consideration to Providing the PvD Additional Information

4.3.  PvD Additional Information Format

4.3.1.  Example

4.4.  Detecting Misconﬁguration and Misuse

5.  Operational Considerations

5.1.  Exposing Extra RA Options to PvD-Aware Hosts

5.2.  Diﬀerent RAs for PvD-Aware and Non-PvD-Aware Hosts

5.3.  Enabling Multihoming for PvD-Aware Hosts

5.4.  Providing Additional Information to PvD-Aware Hosts

6.  Security Considerations

7.  Privacy Considerations

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Change to IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Option Formats Registry

8.2.  New Entry in the Well-Known URIs Registry

8.3.  New Additional Information PvD Keys Registry

8.4.  New PvD Option Flags Registry

8.5.  PvD JSON Media Type Registration

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC7556]
Provisioning Domains (PvDs) are deﬁned in
conﬁguration information. This information includes properties that are traditionally associated
with a single networking interface, such as source addresses, DNS conﬁguration, proxy
conﬁguration, and gateway addresses.

 as consistent sets of network

Clients that are aware of PvDs can take advantage of multiple network interfaces simultaneously.
This enables using two PvDs in parallel for separate connections or for multi-path transports.

While most PvDs today are discovered implicitly (such as by receiving information via Router
Advertisements from a router on a network that a client host directly connects to),
[RFC7556]
also deﬁnes the notion of Explicit PvDs. IPsec Virtual Private Networks are considered Explicit
PvDs, but Explicit PvDs can also be discovered via the local network router. Discovering Explicit
PvDs allows two key advancements in managing multiple PvDs:

1.

The ability to discover and use multiple PvDs on a single interface, such as when a local
router can provide connectivity to two diﬀerent Internet Service Providers.

2.

The ability to associate Additional Information about PvDs to describe the properties of the
network.

[RFC7556]

While
discovering multiple Explicit PvDs on a single network and their Additional Information.

 deﬁnes the concept of Explicit PvDs, it does not deﬁne the mechanism for

This document speciﬁes a way to identify PvDs with Fully Qualiﬁed Domain Names (FQDNs),
called PvD IDs. Those identiﬁers are advertised in a new Router Advertisement (RA)
option called the PvD Option, which, when present, associates the PvD ID with all the

[RFC4861]

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

information present in the Router Advertisement as well as any conﬁguration object, such as
addresses, derived from it. The PvD Option may also contain a set of other RA options, along with
an optional inner Router Advertisement message header. These options and optional inner
header are only visible to 'PvD-aware' hosts, allowing such hosts to have a specialized view of the
network conﬁguration.

Since PvD IDs are used to identify diﬀerent ways to access the Internet, multiple PvDs (with
diﬀerent PvD IDs) can be provisioned on a single host interface. Similarly, the same PvD ID could
be used on diﬀerent interfaces of a host in order to inform that those PvDs ultimately provide
equivalent services.

This document also introduces a mechanism for hosts to retrieve optional Additional
Information related to a speciﬁc PvD by means of an HTTP-over-TLS query using a URI derived
from the PvD ID. The retrieved JSON object contains Additional Information that would typically
be considered too large to be directly included in the Router Advertisement but might be
considered useful to the applications, or even sometimes users, when choosing which PvD should
be used.

For example, if Alice has both a cellular network provider and a broadband provider in her
home, her PvD-aware devices and applications would be aware of both available uplinks. These
applications could fail-over between these networks or run connections over both (potentially
using multi-path transports). Applications could also select speciﬁc uplinks based on the
properties of the network; for example, if the cellular network provides free high-quality video
streaming, a video-streaming application could select that network while most of the other traﬃc
on Alice's device uses the broadband provider.

1.1.  Speciﬁcation of Requirements

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Terminology

This document uses the following terminology:

Provisioning Domain (PvD):

A set of network conﬁguration information; for more information,

see

[RFC7556]

.

PvD ID:

A Fully Qualiﬁed Domain Name (FQDN) used to identify a PvD.

Explicit PvD:

A PvD uniquely identiﬁed with a PvD ID. For more information, see

[RFC7556]

.

Implicit PvD:

A PvD that, in the absence of a PvD ID, is identiﬁed by the host interface to which

it is attached and the address of the advertising router. See also

[RFC7556]

.

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

PvD-aware host: A host that supports the association of network conﬁguration information into

PvDs and the use of these PvDs as described in this document. Also named "PvD-aware
node" in

[RFC7556]

.

3.  Provisioning Domain Identiﬁcation Using Router
Advertisements

Explicit PvDs are identiﬁed by a PvD ID. The PvD ID is a Fully Qualiﬁed Domain Name (FQDN)
that identiﬁes the network operator. Network operators
MUST
 be used in several access networks
manage to avoid naming conﬂicts. The same PvD ID
MAY
when they ultimately provide identical services (e.g., in all home networks subscribed to the
same service); else, the PvD ID

 use names that they own or

Section 2.4 of [RFC7556]

 be diﬀerent to follow

MUST

.

3.1.  PvD Option for Router Advertisements

This document introduces a Router Advertisement (RA) option called the PvD Option. It is used to
convey the FQDN identifying a given PvD (see Figure 1), bind the PvD ID with conﬁguration
information received over DHCPv4 (see Section 3.4.2), enable the use of HTTP over TLS to
retrieve the PvD Additional Information JSON object (see Section 4), as well as contain any other
RA options that would otherwise be valid in the RA.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |    Length     |H|L|R|     Reserved    | Delay |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       Sequence Number         |                             ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                             ...
...                         PvD ID FQDN                       ...
...             +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
...             |                  Padding                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                             ...
...            Router Advertisement message header            ...
...             (Only present when R-flag is set)             ...
...                                                             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Options ...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Figure 1: PvD Option Format

Type:

(8 bits) Set to 21.

Length:

(8 bits) The length of the option in units of 8 octets, including the Type and Length
ﬁelds, the Router Advertisement message header, if any, as well as the RA options that are
included within the PvD Option.

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

H-ﬂag:

(1 bit) 'HTTP' ﬂag stating whether some PvD Additional Information is made available

through HTTP over TLS, as described in Section 4.

L-ﬂag:

(1 bit) 'Legacy' ﬂag stating whether the PvD is associated with IPv4 information assigned

using DHCPv4 (see Section 3.4.2).

R-ﬂag:

(1 bit) 'Router Advertisement' ﬂag stating whether the PvD Option header is followed

(right after padding to the next 64-bit boundary) by a Router Advertisement message
header (see
in Section 3.4.

). The usage of the inner message header is described

Section 4.2 of [RFC4861]

Reserved:

(9 bits) Reserved for later use. It

MUST

 be set to zero by the sender and ignored by the

receiver.

Delay:

(4 bits) Unsigned integer used to delay HTTP GET queries from hosts by a randomized

backoﬀ (see Section 4.1). If the H-ﬂag is not set, senders
 ignore the value.
receivers

SHOULD

SHOULD

 set the delay to zero, and

Sequence Number:

(16 bits) Sequence number for the PvD Additional Information, as described
 set the Sequence Number to zero, and

SHOULD

in Section 4. If the H-ﬂag is not set, senders
receivers

 ignore the value.

SHOULD

PvD ID FQDN:

[RFC1035]
be used.

The FQDN used as PvD ID encoded in DNS format, as described in
. Domain name compression as described in

Section 4.1.4 of [RFC1035] MUST NOT

Section 3.1 of

Padding:

Zero or more padding octets to the next 8-octet boundary (see

Section 4.6 of

[RFC4861]

). It

MUST

 be set to zero by the sender and ignored by the receiver.

RA message header:

(16 octets) When the R-ﬂag is set, a full Router Advertisement message

[RFC4861]

. The sender

header as speciﬁed in
"Router Advertisement") and set the Code ﬁeld to 0. Receivers
ﬁelds. The Checksum ﬁeld
ignored by the receiver without causing the processing of the message to fail. All other
ﬁelds are to be set and parsed as speciﬁed in

 set the Type ﬁeld to 134 (the value for
 ignore both of these
 be

 be set to 0 by the sender; non-zero checksums

 or any updating documents.

[RFC4861]

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

Options:

Zero or more RA options that would otherwise be valid as part of the Router

Advertisement main body but are instead included in the PvD Option so as to be ignored
by hosts that are not PvD aware.

Figure 2 shows an example of a PvD Option with "example.org" as the PvD ID FQDN and includes
both a Recursive DNS Server (RDNSS) option and a Preﬁx Information Option. It has a Sequence
Number of 123 and indicates the presence of PvD Additional Information that is expected to be
fetched with a delay factor of 1.

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| Type: 21      |  Length: 12   |1|0|0|     Reserved    |Delay:1|
+---------------+-------------------------------+---------------+
|       Seq number: 123         |      7        |       e       |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------+
|      x        |       a       |      m        |       p       |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|      l        |       e       |      3        |       o       |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|      r        |       g       |      0        |   0 (padding) |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|   0 (padding) |  0 (padding)  |   0 (padding) |   0 (padding) |
+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
|  RDNSS option (RFC 8106) length: 5                          ...
...                                                           ...
...                                                             |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+
| Prefix Information Option (RFC 4861) length: 4              ...
...                                                             |
...                                                             |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 2: Example PvD Option

3.2.  Router Behavior

A router
Option in each RA. The PvD Option

MAY

 send RAs containing one PvD Option but

MUST NOT
 contain further PvD Options.

MUST NOT

 include more than one PvD

MAY

The PvD Option
 contain zero, one, or more RA options that would otherwise be valid as part
of the same RA. Such options are processed by PvD-aware hosts and ignored by other hosts as per
Section 4.2 of [RFC4861]

.

In order to provide multiple diﬀerent PvDs, a router
 send multiple RAs. RAs sent from
diﬀerent link-local source addresses establish distinct Implicit PvDs in the absence of a PvD
Option. Explicit PvDs
number of other Explicit PvDs.

 share link-local source addresses with an Implicit PvD and any

MUST

MAY

In other words, diﬀerent Explicit PvDs
source address, but diﬀerent Implicit PvDs, advertised by diﬀerent RAs,
 use diﬀerent link-
local addresses because these Implicit PvDs are identiﬁed by the source addresses of the RAs. If a
link-local address on the router is changed, then any new RA will be interpreted as a diﬀerent
Implicit PvD by PvD-aware hosts.

 be advertised with RAs using the same link-local

MUST

MAY

[RFC4861]

As speciﬁed in
[RFC6980]
advertisement to exceed the link MTU, multiple router advertisements
fragmentation, each containing a subset of the options. In such cases, the PvD Option header (i.e.,

, when the set of options causes the size of an

 be sent to avoid

MUST

 and

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

all ﬁelds except the Options ﬁeld)
within the Options ﬁeld
Options.

MAY

MUST

 be repeated in all the transmitted RAs. The options

 be transmitted only once, included in one of the transmitted PvD

3.3.  Non-PvD-Aware Host Behavior

As the PvD Option has a new option code, non-PvD-aware hosts will simply ignore the PvD
Option and all the options it contains (see
compatibility required in
network where a mix of PvD-aware and non-PvD-aware hosts coexist.

. This behavior allows for a mixed-mode

Section 4.2 of [RFC4861]

Section 3.3 of [RFC7556]

). This ensures the backward

3.4.  PvD-Aware Host Behavior

MUST

 associate received RAs and included conﬁguration information (e.g., Router Valid

Hosts
Lifetime, Preﬁx Information
Information
the received RA, if any, or with the Implicit PvD identiﬁed by the host interface and the source
address of the received RA otherwise. If an RA message header is present both within the PvD
Option and outside it, the header within the PvD Option takes precedence.

 options) with the Explicit PvD identiﬁed by the ﬁrst PvD Option present in

, Recursive DNS Server

, and Routing

[RFC4191]

[RFC4861]

[RFC8106]

In case multiple PvD Options are found in a given RA, hosts
Option.

MUST

 ignore all but the ﬁrst PvD

If a host receives PvD Options ﬂags that it does not recognize (currently in the Reserved ﬁeld), it
MUST

 ignore these ﬂags.

MUST

 associate all network conﬁguration objects (e.g., default routers, addresses,

Similarly, hosts
more speciﬁc routes, and DNS Recursive Resolvers) with the PvD associated with the RA that
provisioned the object. For example, addresses that are generated using a received Preﬁx
Information Option (PIO) are associated with the PvD of the last received RA that included the
given PIO.

PvD IDs
"pvd.example.com." or "PvD.Example.coM." would refer to the same PvD.

 be compared in a case-insensitive manner as deﬁned by

MUST

[RFC4343]

. For example,

, or executing the default router selection algorithm when

[RFC6724]
[RFC4861] [RFC4191] [RFC8028]

While performing PvD-speciﬁc operations such as resolving names, executing the default address
selection algorithm
forwarding packets
the conﬁguration associated with any non-empty subset of PvDs. For example, a host
associate a given process with a speciﬁc PvD, or a speciﬁc set of PvDs, while associating another
process with another PvD. A PvD-aware application might also be able to select, on a per-
connection basis, which PvDs should be used. In particular, constrained devices such as small
battery-operated devices (e.g., Internet of Things (IoT)) or devices with limited CPU or memory
resources may purposefully use a single PvD while ignoring some received RAs containing
diﬀerent PvD IDs.

 consider only
MAY

, hosts and applications

MAY

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

The way an application expresses its desire to use a given PvD, or a set of PvDs, and the way this
selection is enforced are out of the scope of this document. Useful insights about these
[MPVD-API]
.
considerations can be found in

3.4.1.  DHCPv6 Conﬁguration Association

When a host retrieves stateless conﬁguration elements using DHCPv6 (e.g., DNS recursive
resolvers or DNS domain search lists
and Implicit PvDs received on the same interface and contained in an RA with the O-ﬂag set
.
[RFC4861]

 be associated with all the Explicit

[RFC3646]

), they

MUST

When a host retrieves stateful assignments using DHCPv6, such assignments
with the received PvD that was received with RAs with the M-ﬂag set and including a matching
PIO. A PIO is considered to match a DHCPv6 assignment when the IPv6 preﬁx from the PIO
includes the assignment from DHCPv6. For example, if a PvD's associated PIO deﬁnes the preﬁx
2001:db8:cafe::/64, a DHCPv6 IA_NA message that assigns the address
2001:db8:cafe::1234:4567 would be considered to match.

 be associated

MUST

MAY

 associate the assigned address with any Implicit PvD received on the same interface or

In cases where an address would be assigned by DHCPv6 and no matching PvD could be found,
hosts
to multiple Implicit PvDs received on the same interface. This is intended to resolve backward-
compatibility issues with rare deployments choosing to assign addresses with DHCPv6 while not
sending any matching PIO. Implementations are suggested to ﬂag or log such scenarios as errors
to help detect misconﬁgurations.

3.4.2.  DHCPv4 Conﬁguration Association

[RFC2131]

 conﬁguration elements with Explicit PvDs allows hosts to treat a

Associating DHCPv4
set of IPv4 and IPv6 conﬁgurations as a single PvD with shared properties. For example, consider
a router that provides two diﬀerent uplinks. One could be a broadband network that has data
rate and streaming properties described in PvD Additional Information and that provides both
IPv4 and IPv6 network access. The other could be a cellular network that provides only IPv6
network access and uses NAT64
Explicit PvD that points to the Additional Information and also marks association with DHCPv4
information. The cellular network can be represented by a diﬀerent Explicit PvD that is not
associated with DHCPv4.

. The broadband network can be represented by an

[RFC6146]

When a PvD-aware host retrieves conﬁguration elements from DHCPv4, the information is
associated either with a single Explicit PvD on that interface or else with all Implicit PvDs on the
same interface.

An Explicit PvD indicates its association with DHCPv4 information by setting the L-ﬂag in the PvD
Option. If there is exactly one Explicit PvD that sets this ﬂag, hosts
 associate the DHCPv4
information with that PvD. Multiple Explicit PvDs on the same interface marking this ﬂag is a
misconﬁguration, and hosts
 associate the DHCPv4 information with any Explicit
PvD in this case.

SHOULD NOT

MUST

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

If no single Explicit PvD claims association with DHCPv4, the conﬁguration elements coming
from DHCPv4
DHCPv4 transaction happened. This maintains existing host behavior.

 be associated with all Implicit PvDs identiﬁed by the interface on which the

MUST

3.4.3.  Connection Sharing by the Host

The situation in which a host shares connectivity from an upstream interface (e.g., cellular) to a
downstream interface (e.g., Wi-Fi) is known as 'tethering'. Techniques such as ND Proxy
[RFC4389]
used for that purpose.

, or preﬁx delegation (e.g., using DHCPv6-PD

[RFC8415]

[RFC7278]

, 64share

) may be

Whenever the RAs received from the upstream interface contain a PvD Option, hosts that are
sharing connectivity

 include a PvD Option within the RAs sent downstream with:

SHOULD

•

The same PvD ID FQDN

•

The same H-ﬂag, Delay, and Sequence Number values

•

The L-ﬂag set whenever the host is sharing IPv4 connectivity received from the same
upstream interface

•

The bits in the Reserved ﬁeld set to 0

The values of the R-ﬂag, Router Advertisement message header, and Options ﬁeld depend on
whether or not the connectivity should be shared only with PvD-aware hosts (see Section 3.2). In
particular, all options received within the upstream PvD Option and included in the downstream
RA

 be included in the downstream PvD Option.

SHOULD

3.4.4.  Usage of DNS Servers

PvD-aware hosts can be provisioned with recursive DNS servers via RA options passed within an
Explicit PvD, via RA options associated with an Implicit PvD, via DHCPv6 or DHCPv4, or from
some other provisioning mechanism that creates an Explicit PvD (such as a VPN). In all of these
cases, the recursive DNS server addresses
Speciﬁcally, queries sent to a conﬁgured recursive DNS server
address that was provisioned for the PvD via RA or DHCP. Answers received from the DNS server
SHOULD

 be associated with the corresponding PvD.
 be sent from a local IP

 only be used on the same PvD.

SHOULD

SHOULD

PvD-aware applications will be able to select which PvD(s) to use for DNS resolution and
connections, which allows them to eﬀectively use multiple Explicit PvDs. In order to support non-
PvD-aware applications, however, PvD-aware hosts
resolution APIs like "getaddrinfo" only use resolvers from a single PvD for a given query.
Handling DNS across PvDs is discussed in
in

 ensure that non-PvD-aware name

, and PvD APIs are discussed

Section 5.2.1 of [RFC7556]

Section 6 of [RFC7556]

SHOULD

.

Maintaining the correct usage of DNS within PvDs avoids various practical errors such as:

•

A PvD associated with a VPN or otherwise private network may provide DNS answers that
contain addresses inaccessible over another PvD. This includes the DNS queries to retrieve
PvD Additional Information, which could otherwise send identifying information to the
recursive DNS system (see Section 4.1).

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

•

[RFC6146]

A PvD that uses a NAT64
DNS answers that are not globally routable and would be invalid on other PvDs. Conversely,
an IPv4 address resolved via DNS on another PvD cannot be directly used on a NAT64
network.

 will synthesize IPv6 addresses in

 and DNS64

[RFC6147]

4.  Provisioning Domain Additional Information

Additional information about the network characteristics can be retrieved based on the PvD ID.
This set of information is called PvD Additional Information and is encoded as a JSON object
[RFC8259]
. This JSON object is restricted to the Internet JSON (I-JSON) proﬁle, as deﬁned in
.
[RFC7493]

The purpose of this JSON object is to provide Additional Information to applications on a client
host about the connectivity that is provided using a given interface and source address. It
typically includes data that would be considered too large, or not critical enough, to be provided
within an RA option. The information contained in this object
system, network libraries, applications, or users in order to decide which set of PvDs should be
used for which connection, as described in Section 3.4.

 be used by the operating

MAY

The Additional Information related to a PvD is speciﬁcally intended to be optional and is targeted
at optimizing or informing the behavior of user-facing hosts. This information can be extended
to provide hints for host system behavior (such as captive portal or walled-garden PvD detection)
or application behavior (describing application-speciﬁc services oﬀered on a given PvD). This
content may not be appropriate for light-weight IoT devices. IoT devices might need only a subset
of the information and would in some cases prefer a smaller representation like Concise Binary
Object Representation (CBOR)
[RFC7049]
Information designed for such devices is not deﬁned in this document.

. Delivering a reduced version of the PvD Additional

4.1.  Retrieving the PvD Additional Information

When the H-ﬂag of the PvD Option is set, hosts
Information associated with a given PvD by performing an HTTP-over-TLS
to https://<PvD-ID>/.well-known/pvd. Inversely, hosts
not set.

MUST NOT

MAY

 attempt to retrieve the PvD Additional

[RFC2818]

 GET query
 do so whenever the H-ﬂag is

Recommendations for how to use TLS securely can be found in

[RFC7525]
.

When a host retrieves the PvD Additional Information, it
certiﬁcate is valid for the performed request, speciﬁcally, that a DNS-ID
certiﬁcate is equal to the PvD ID expressed as an FQDN. This validation indicates that the owner
of the FQDN authorizes its use with the preﬁx advertised by the router. If this validation fails,
hosts

 close the connection and treat the PvD as if it has no Additional Information.

 verify that the TLS server
 on the
[RFC6125]

MUST

MUST

HTTP requests and responses for PvD Additional Information use the "application/pvd+json"
media type (see Section 8.5). Clients
their GET requests, and servers
responses.

 include this media type as an Accept header ﬁeld in
 mark this media type as their Content-Type header ﬁeld in

SHOULD

MUST

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

[RFC6960]

), and the HTTP request itself

Note that the DNS name resolution of the PvD ID, any connections made for certiﬁcate validation
(such as Online Certiﬁcate Status Protocol (OCSP)
be performed using the considered PvD. In other words, the name resolution, PKI checks, source
address selection, as well as the next-hop router selection
 be performed while exclusively
using the set of conﬁguration information attached with the PvD, as deﬁned in Section 3.4. In
some cases, it may therefore be necessary to wait for an address to be available for use (e.g., once
the Duplicate Address Detection or DHCPv6 processes are complete) before initiating the HTTP-
over-TLS query. In order to address privacy concerns around linkability of the PvD HTTP
connection with future user-initiated connections, if the host has a temporary address per
 use a temporary address to fetch the PvD Additional
[RFC4941]
Information and
address afterward.

 deprecate the used temporary address and generate a new temporary

 in this PvD, then it
MAY

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

If the HTTP status of the answer is greater than or equal to 400, the host
connection and consider that there is no PvD Additional Information. If the HTTP status of the
 follow the redirection(s). If the HTTP status of
answer is between 300 and 399, inclusive, it
MUST
the answer is between 200 and 299, inclusive, the response is expected to be a single JSON object.

 close its

MUST

After retrieval of the PvD Additional Information, hosts
Number value received in an RA including the same PvD ID. Whenever a new RA for the same
PvD is received with a diﬀerent Sequence Number value, or whenever the expiry date for the
additional information is reached, hosts
 deprecate the Additional Information and stop
using it.

 remember the last Sequence

MUST

MUST

Hosts retrieving a new PvD Additional Information object
validity of the mandatory ﬁelds speciﬁed in Section 4.3. A retrieved object including an
 be ignored.
expiration time that is already past or missing a mandatory element

 check for the presence and

MUST

MUST

In order to avoid synchronized queries toward the server hosting the PvD Additional
Information when an object expires, object updates are delayed by a randomized backoﬀ time.

•

When a host performs a JSON object update after it detected a change in the PvD Option
Sequence Number, it
 add a delay before sending the query. The target time for the
delay is calculated as a random time between zero and 2(10 + Delay) milliseconds, where
'Delay' corresponds to the 4-bit unsigned integer in the last received PvD Option.

MUST

•

When a host last retrieved a JSON object at time A that includes an expiry time B using the
"expires" key, and the host is conﬁgured to keep the PvD Additional Information up to date, it
MUST
time for fetching the updated object is calculated as a uniformly random time in the interval
[(B-A)/2,B].

 add some randomness into its calculation of the time to fetch the update. The target

In the example in Figure 2, the Delay ﬁeld value is 1; this means that the host calculates its delay
by choosing a uniformly random time between 0 and 2(10 + 1) milliseconds, i.e., between 0 and
2048 milliseconds.

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

Since the Delay value is directly within the PvD Option rather than the object itself, an operator
may perform a push-based update by incrementing the Sequence Number value while changing
the Delay value depending on the criticality of the update and the capacity of its PvD Additional
Information servers.

In addition to adding a random delay when fetching Additional Information, hosts
a minimum time between requesting Additional Information for a given PvD on the same
network. This minimum time is
RECOMMENDED
a denial-of-service on the PvD server. Hosts also
made to diﬀerent PvD Additional Information servers on the same network within a short period
of time. A
requests in total on a given network within 10 seconds. For more discussion, see Section 6.

 to be 10 seconds, in order to avoid hosts causing
 limit the number of requests that are
MUST

 value is to issue no more than ﬁve PvD Additional Information

RECOMMENDED

 enforce

MUST

MUST

The PvD Additional Information object includes a set of IPv6 preﬁxes (under the key "preﬁxes")
that
 be checked against all the Preﬁx Information Options advertised in the RA. If any of
the preﬁxes included in any associated PIO is not covered by at least one of the listed preﬁxes,
the PvD Additional Information
used by the host. See Section 4.4 for more discussion on handling such misconﬁgurations.

 be considered to be a misconﬁguration and

MUST NOT

MUST

 be

If the request for PvD Additional Information fails due to a TLS certiﬁcate validation error, an
HTTP error, or because the retrieved ﬁle does not contain valid PvD JSON, hosts
connection used to fetch the PvD Additional Information and
for that PvD ID again for the duration of the local network attachment. If a host detects 10 or
more such failures to fetch PvD Additional Information, the local network is assumed to be
misconﬁgured or under attack and the host
Additional Information, belonging to any PvD ID, for the duration of the local network
attachment. For more discussion, see Section 6.

 make any further requests for any PvD

 close any
 request the information

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST

4.2.  Operational Consideration to Providing the PvD Additional
Information

Whenever the H-ﬂag is set in the PvD Option, a valid PvD Additional Information object
made available to all hosts receiving the RA by the network operator. In particular, when a
captive portal is present, hosts
HTTP-over-TLS operations related to the retrieval of the object, even before logging into the
captive portal.

 still be allowed to perform DNS, certiﬁcate validation, and

MUST

MUST

 be

SHOULD

 increment the PvD Option Sequence Number by one whenever a new PvD

Routers
Additional Information object is available and should be retrieved by hosts. If the value exceeds
what can be stored in the Sequence Number ﬁeld, it

 wrap back to zero.

MUST

The server providing the JSON ﬁles
by the preﬁxes listed in the Additional Information and
there is no match.

SHOULD

 also check whether the client address is contained
 return a 403 response code if

SHOULD

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

4.3.  PvD Additional Information Format

The PvD Additional Information is a JSON object.

The following table presents the mandatory keys, which

MUST

 be included in the object:

JSON
key

Description

Type

Example

identiﬁer

PvD ID FQDN

String

"pvd.example.com."

expires

Date after which this object is
no longer valid

[RFC3339]
Date

"2020-05-23T06:00:00Z"

preﬁxes

Array of IPv6 preﬁxes valid for
this PvD

Array of
strings

["2001:db8:1::/48",
"2001:db8:4::/48"]

Table 1

A retrieved object that does not include all three of these keys at the root of the JSON object
be ignored. All three keys need to be validated; otherwise, the object
stored for "identiﬁer"
using the comparison mechanism described in Section 3.4. The value stored for "expires"
be a valid date in the future. If the PIO of the received RA is not covered by at least one of the
"preﬁxes" key, the retrieved object

 be matched against the PvD ID FQDN presented in the PvD Option
MUST

MUST
 be ignored. The value

 be ignored.

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

The following table presents some optional keys that

MAY

 be included in the object.

JSON key

Description

Type

Example

dnsZones

DNS zones searchable and
accessible

Array of
strings

["example.com",
"sub.example.com"]

noInternet No Internet; set to "true" when

Boolean

true

the PvD is restricted

Table 2

It is worth noting that the JSON format allows for extensions. Whenever an unknown key is
encountered, it

 be ignored along with its associated elements.

MUST

MAY

 be used in the JSON dictionary. In order to avoid such keys

Private-use or experimental keys
colliding with the keys registered by IANA, implementers or vendors deﬁning private-use or
experimental keys
deﬁned by an organization that has a formal URN namespace
SHOULD
dictionary key

 create sub-dictionaries. If a set of PvD Additional Information keys are
, the URN namespace
 be used as the top-level JSON key for the sub-dictionary. For other private uses, the sub-

 follow the format of "vendor-*", where the "*" is replaced by the

[IANA-URN]

SHOULD

MUST

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

implementer's or vendor's identiﬁer. For example, keys speciﬁc to the FooBar organization could
use "vendor-foobar". If a host receives a sub-dictionary with an unknown key, the host
ignore the contents of the sub-dictionary.

MUST

4.3.1.  Example

The following two examples show how the JSON keys deﬁned in this document can be used:

{
  "identifier": "cafe.example.com.",
  "expires": "2020-05-23T06:00:00Z",
  "prefixes": ["2001:db8:1::/48", "2001:db8:4::/48"],
}

{
  "identifier": "company.foo.example.com.",
  "expires": "2020-05-23T06:00:00Z",
  "prefixes": ["2001:db8:1::/48", "2001:db8:4::/48"],
  "vendor-foo":
    {
        "private-key": "private-value",
    },
}

4.4.  Detecting Misconﬁguration and Misuse

MUST

Hosts
detailed in Section 4.1.

 validate the TLS server certiﬁcate when retrieving PvD Additional Information, as

MUST

 verify that all preﬁxes in all the RA PIOs are covered by a preﬁx from the PvD

Hosts
Additional Information. An adversarial router attempting to spoof the deﬁnition of an Explicit
PvD, without the ability to modify the PvD Additional Information, would need to perform IPv6-
to-IPv6 Network Preﬁx Translation (NPTv6)
[RFC6296]
this check cannot prevent all spooﬁng, but it can detect misconﬁguration or mismatched routers
that are not adding a NAT.

 in order to circumvent this check. Thus,

If NPTv6 is being added in order to spoof PvD ownership, the HTTPS server for Additional
Information can detect this misconﬁguration. The HTTPS server
addresses of incoming connections (see Section 4.1). This check gives reasonable assurance that
NPTv6 was not used and restricts the information to the valid network users.If the PvD does not
provision IPv4 (it does not include the L-ﬂag in the RA), the server cannot validate the source
addresses of connections using IPv4. Thus, the PvD ID FQDN for such PvDs
DNS A record.

 validate the source

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

 have a

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

5.  Operational Considerations

This section describes some example use cases of PvDs. For the sake of simplicity, the RA
messages will not be described in the usual ASCII art but rather in an indented list. Values in the
PvD Option header that are not included in the example are assumed to be zero or false (such as
the H-ﬂag, Sequence Number, and Delay ﬁelds).

5.1.  Exposing Extra RA Options to PvD-Aware Hosts

In this example, there is one RA message sent by the router. This message contains some options
applicable to all hosts on the network and also a PvD Option that also contains other options only
visible to PvD-aware hosts.

•

RA Header: router lifetime = 6000

•

Preﬁx Information Option: length = 4, preﬁx = 2001:db8:cafe::/64

•

PvD Option header: length = 3 + 5 + 4, PvD ID FQDN = example.org., R-ﬂag = 0 (actual length
of the header with padding 24 bytes = 3 * 8 bytes)

◦

◦

Recursive DNS Server: length = 5, addresses = [2001:db8:cafe::53, 2001:db8:f00d::53]

Preﬁx Information Option: length = 4, preﬁx = 2001:db8:f00d::/64

Note that a PvD-aware host will receive two diﬀerent preﬁxes, 2001:db8:cafe::/64 and
2001:db8:f00d::/64, both associated with the same PvD (identiﬁed by "example.org."). A non-
PvD-aware host will only receive one preﬁx, 2001:db8:cafe::/64.

5.2.  Diﬀerent RAs for PvD-Aware and Non-PvD-Aware Hosts

It is expected that for some years, networks will have a mixed environment of PvD-aware hosts
and non-PvD-aware hosts. If there is a need to give speciﬁc information to PvD-aware hosts only,
then it is
allows for two distinct sets of conﬁguration information to be sent in a way that will not disrupt
non-PvD-aware hosts. It also lowers the risk that a single RA message will approach its MTU limit
due to duplicated information.

 to send two RA messages, one for each class of hosts. This approach

RECOMMENDED

If two RA messages are sent for this reason, they
source addresses (Section 3.2). For example, here is the RA sent for non-PvD-aware hosts:

 be sent from two diﬀerent link-local

MUST

•

RA Header: router lifetime = 6000 (non-PvD-aware hosts will use this router as a default
router)

•

Preﬁx Information Option: length = 4, preﬁx = 2001:db8:cafe::/64

•

Recursive DNS Server Option: length = 3, addresses = [2001:db8:cafe::53]

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

•

PvD Option header: length = 3 + 2, PvD ID FQDN = foo.example.org., R-ﬂag = 1 (actual length
of the header 24 bytes = 3 * 8 bytes)

◦

RA Header: router lifetime = 0 (PvD-aware hosts will not use this router as a default
router), implicit length = 2

And here is the RA sent for PvD-aware hosts:

•

RA Header: router lifetime = 0 (non-PvD-aware hosts will not use this router as a default
router)

•

PvD Option header: length = 3 + 2 + 4 + 3, PvD ID FQDN = bar.example.org., R-ﬂag = 1 (actual
length of the header 24 bytes = 3 * 8 bytes)

◦

◦

◦

RA Header: router lifetime = 1600 (PvD-aware hosts will use this router as a default
router), implicit length = 2

Preﬁx Information Option: length = 4, preﬁx = 2001:db8:f00d::/64

Recursive DNS Server Option: length = 3, addresses = [2001:db8:f00d::53]

In the above example, non-PvD-aware hosts will only use the ﬁrst listed RA sent by their default
router and use the 2001:db8:cafe::/64 preﬁx. PvD-aware hosts will autonomously conﬁgure
addresses from both PIOs but will only use the source address in 2001:db8:f00d::/64 to
communicate past the ﬁrst-hop router since only the router sending the second RA will be used
as the default router; similarly, they will use the DNS server 2001:db8:f00d::53 when
communicating from this address.

5.3.  Enabling Multihoming for PvD-Aware Hosts

In this example, the goal is to have one preﬁx from one RA be usable by both non-PvD-aware and
PvD-aware hosts and to have another preﬁx usable only by PvD-aware hosts. This allows PvD-
aware hosts to be able to eﬀectively multihome on the network.

The ﬁrst RA is usable by all hosts. The only diﬀerence for PvD-aware hosts is that they can
explicitly identify the PvD ID associated with the RA. PvD-aware hosts will also use this preﬁx to
communicate with non-PvD-aware hosts on the same network.

•

RA Header: router lifetime = 6000 (non-PvD-aware hosts will use this router as a default
router)

•

Preﬁx Information Option: length = 4, preﬁx = 2001:db8:cafe::/64

•

Recursive DNS Server Option: length = 3, addresses = [2001:db8:cafe::53]

•

PvD Option header: length = 3, PvD ID FQDN = foo.example.org., R-ﬂag = 0 (actual length of
the header 24 bytes = 3 * 8 bytes)

The second RA contains a preﬁx usable only by PvD-aware hosts. Non-PvD-aware hosts will
ignore this RA; hence, only the PvD-aware hosts will be multihomed.

•

RA Header: router lifetime = 0 (non-PvD-aware hosts will not use this router as a default
router)

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

•

PvD Option header: length = 3 + 2 + 4 + 3, PvD ID FQDN = bar.example.org., R-ﬂag = 1 (actual
length of the header 24 bytes = 3 * 8 bytes)

◦

◦

◦

RA Header: router lifetime = 1600 (PvD-aware hosts will use this router as a default
router), implicit length = 2

Preﬁx Information Option: length = 4, preﬁx = 2001:db8:f00d::/64

Recursive DNS Server Option: length = 3, addresses = [2001:db8:f00d::53]

Note: the above examples assume that the router has received its PvD IDs from upstream routers
or via some other conﬁguration mechanism. Another document could deﬁne ways for the router
to generate its own PvD IDs to allow the above scenario in the absence of PvD ID provisioning.

5.4.  Providing Additional Information to PvD-Aware Hosts

In this example, the router indicates that it provides Additional Information using the H-ﬂag. The
Sequence Number on the PvD Option is set to 7 in this example.

•

RA Header: router lifetime = 6000

•

Preﬁx Information Option: length = 4, preﬁx = 2001:db8:cafe::/64

•

Recursive DNS Server Option: length = 3, addresses = [2001:db8:cafe::53]

•

PvD Option header: length = 3, PvD ID FQDN = cafe.example.com., Sequence Number = 7, R-
ﬂag = 0, H-ﬂag = 1 (actual length of the header with padding 24 bytes = 3 * 8 bytes)

A PvD-aware host will fetch <https://cafe.example.com/.well-known/pvd> to get the additional
information. The following example shows a GET request that the host sends, in HTTP/2 syntax
[RFC7540]
:

:method = GET
:scheme = https
:authority = cafe.example.com
:path = /.well-known/pvd
accept = application/pvd+json

The HTTP server will respond with the JSON Additional Information:

:status = 200
content-type = application/pvd+json
content-length = 116

{
  "identifier": "cafe.example.com.",
  "expires": "2020-05-23T06:00:00Z",
  "prefixes": ["2001:db8:cafe::/48"],
}

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

At this point, the host has the PvD Additional Information and knows the expiry time. When
either the expiry time passes or a new Sequence Number is provided in an RA, the host will re-
fetch the Additional Information.

For example, if the router sends a new RA with the Sequence Number set to 8, the host will re-
fetch the Additional Information:

•

PvD Option header: length = 3 + 5 + 4 , PvD ID FQDN = cafe.example.com., Sequence Number
= 8, R-ﬂag = 0, H-ﬂag = 1 (actual length of the header with padding 24 bytes = 3 * 8 bytes)

However, if the router sends a new RA, but the Sequence Number has not changed, the host
would not re-fetch the Additional Information (until and unless the expiry time of the Additional
Information has passed).

6.  Security Considerations

Since the PvD Option can contain an RA header and other RA options, any security
considerations that apply for speciﬁc RA options continue to apply when used within a PvD
Option.

Although some solutions such as IPsec or SEcure Neighbor Discovery (SeND)
 can be
used in order to secure the IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Protocol, in practice, actual deployments
largely rely on link-layer or physical-layer security mechanisms (e.g., 802.1x
.
conjunction with RA-Guard

[IEEE8021X]

[RFC6105]

[RFC3971]

) in

If multiple RAs are sent for a single PvD to avoid fragmentation, dropping packets can lead to
processing only part of a PvD Option, which could lead to hosts receiving only part of the
contained options. As discussed in Section 3.2, routers
 include the PvD Option in all
fragments generated.

MUST

This speciﬁcation does not improve the Neighbor Discovery Protocol security model but simply
validates that the owner of the PvD FQDN authorizes its use with the preﬁx advertised by the
router. In combination with implicit trust in the local router (if present), this gives the host some
level of assurance that the PvD is authorized for use in this environment. However, when the
local router cannot be trusted, no such guarantee is available.

It must be noted that Section 4.4 of this document only provides reasonable assurance against
misconﬁguration but does not prevent a hostile network access provider from advertising
incorrect information that could lead applications or hosts to select a hostile PvD. However, a
host that correctly implements the multiple PvD architecture
 using the mechanism
described in this document will be less susceptible to some attacks than a host that does not by
being able to check for the various misconﬁgurations or inconsistencies described in this
document.

[RFC7556]

Since expiration times provided in PvD Additional Information use absolute time, these values
can be skewed due to clock skew or for hosts without an accurate time base. Such time values
MUST NOT

 be used for security-sensitive functionality or decisions.

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

An attacker generating RAs on a local network can use the H-ﬂag and the PvD ID to cause hosts
on the network to make requests for PvD Additional Information from servers. This can become
a denial-of-service attack, in which an attacker can amplify its attack by triggering TLS
connections to arbitrary servers in response to sending UDP packets containing RA messages. To
mitigate this attack, hosts

MUST

:

•

limit the rate at which they fetch a particular PvD's Additional Information;

•

limit the rate at which they fetch any PvD Additional Information on a given local network;

•

stop making requests for a PvD ID that does not respond with valid JSON; and

•

stop making requests for all PvD IDs once a certain number of failures is reached on a
particular network.

Details are provided in Section 4.1. This attack can be targeted at generic web servers, in which
case the host behavior of stopping requesting for any server that doesn't behave like a PvD
Additional Information server is critical. Limiting requests for a speciﬁc PvD ID might not be
suﬃcient if the attacker changes the PvD ID values quickly, so hosts also need to stop requesting
if they detect consistent failure when on a network that is under attack. For cases in which an
attacker is pointing hosts at a valid PvD Additional Information server (but one that is not
actually associated with the local network), the server
originate from the expected IPv6 preﬁx as described in Section 4.2.

 reject any requests that do not

SHOULD

7.  Privacy Considerations

Retrieval of the PvD Additional Information over HTTPS requires early communications between
the connecting host and a server that may be located further than the ﬁrst-hop router. Although
this server is likely to be located within the same administrative domain as the default router,
this property can't be ensured. To minimize the leakage of identity information while retrieving
the PvD Additional Information, hosts
SHOULD NOT
cookie.

 include any privacy-sensitive data, such as a User-Agent header ﬁeld or an HTTP

 make use of an IPv6 temporary address and

SHOULD

Hosts might not always fetch PvD Additional Information, depending on whether or not they
expect to use the information. However, if a host allows requesting Additional Information for
certain PvD IDs, an attacker could send various PvD IDs in RAs to detect which PvD IDs are
allowed by the client. To avoid this, hosts
SHOULD
eligible PvD IDs on a given local network or fetch the information for none of them.

 either fetch Additional Information for all

From a user privacy perspective, retrieving the PvD Additional Information is not diﬀerent from
establishing a ﬁrst connection to a remote server or even performing a single DNS lookup. For
example, most operating systems already perform early queries to static web sites, such as
<http://captive.example.com/hotspot-detect.html>, in order to detect the presence of a captive
portal.

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

The DNS queries associated with the PvD Additional Information
indicated by the associated PvD, as described in Section 4.1. This ensures the name of the PvD
Additional Information server is not unintentionally sent on another network, thus leaking
identifying information about the networks with which the client is associated.

 use the DNS servers

MUST

There may be some cases where hosts, for privacy reasons, should refrain from accessing servers
that are located outside a certain network boundary. In practice, this could be implemented as an
allowed list of 'trusted' FQDNs and/or IP preﬁxes that the host is allowed to communicate with. In
such scenarios, the host
resolves into, are part of the allowed list.

 check that the provided PvD ID, as well as the IP address that it

SHOULD

SHOULD

Network operators
 restrict access to PvD Additional Information to only expose it to
hosts that are connected to the local network, especially if the Additional Information would
provide information about local network conﬁguration to attackers. This can be implemented by
allowing access from the addresses and preﬁxes that the router provides for the PvD, which will
match the preﬁxes contained in the PvD Additional Information. This technique is described in
Section 4.2.

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Change to IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Option Formats Registry

IANA has removed the 'reclaimable' tag for value 21 for the PvD Option in the "IPv6 Neighbor
Discovery Option Formats" registry.

8.2.  New Entry in the Well-Known URIs Registry

IANA has added a new entry in the "Well-Known URIs" registry
information:

[RFC8615]

 with the following

URI suﬃx: pvd

Change controller: IETF

Speciﬁcation document: RFC 8801

Status: permanent

Related information: N/A

8.3.  New Additional Information PvD Keys Registry

IANA has created and will maintain a new registry called "Additional Information PvD Keys",
which reserves JSON keys for use in PvD Additional Information. The initial contents of this
registry are given in Section 4.3 (both the table of mandatory keys and the table of optional keys).

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

The status of a key as mandatory or optional is intentionally not denoted in the table to allow for
ﬂexibility in future use cases. Any new assignments of keys will be considered as optional for the
purpose of the mechanism described in this document.

New assignments in the "Additional Information PvD Keys" registry will be administered by
IANA through Expert Review
overlap in names or semantics and that they represent non-vendor-speciﬁc use cases. Vendor-
speciﬁc keys

 use sub-dictionaries, as described in Section 4.3.

. Experts are requested to ensure that deﬁned keys do not

[RFC8126]

SHOULD

IANA has placed the "Additional Information PvD Keys" registry within a new registry entitled
"Provisioning Domains (PvDs)".

8.4.  New PvD Option Flags Registry

IANA has also created and will maintain a new registry entitled "PvD Option Flags". This new
registry reserves bit positions from 0 to 11 to be used in the PvD Option bitmask. This document
assigns bit positions 0, 1, and 2 as shown in the table below. Future assignments require
Standards Action

[RFC8126]

.

Bit

Name

Reference

0

1

2

H-ﬂag

L-ﬂag

R-ﬂag

RFC 8801

RFC 8801

RFC 8801

3-11

Unassigned

Table 3

Since these ﬂags apply to an IPv6 Router Advertisement Option, IANA has placed this registry
under the existing "Internet Control Message Protocol version 6 (ICMPv6) Parameters" registry
and provided a link on the new "Provisioning Domains (PvDs)" registry.

8.5.  PvD JSON Media Type Registration

This document registers the media type for PvD JSON text, "application/pvd+json".

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

pvd+json

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

Encoding considerations are identical to those speciﬁed for the

"application/json" media type.

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

Security considerations:

See Section 6 of RFC 8801.

Interoperability considerations:

This document speciﬁes the format of conforming messages

and the interpretation thereof.

Published speciﬁcation:

RFC 8801

Applications that use this media type:

This media type is intended to be used by networks
advertising additional Provisioning Domain information and clients looking up such
information.

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

See Authors' Addresses section

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Author:

IETF

Change controller:

IETF

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2818]

[RFC3339]

[RFC4191]

[RFC4343]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation" STD 13
,
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Rescorla, E. "HTTP Over TLS" RFC 2818 DOI 10.17487/RFC2818
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2818>

,

.

,

, May 2000,

Klyne, G. and C. Newman "Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps" RFC
,
3339 DOI 10.17487/RFC3339
rfc3339>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2002,

.

,

Draves, R. and D. Thaler "Default Router Preferences and More-Speciﬁc Routes"
RFC 4191 DOI 10.17487/RFC4191
info/rfc4191>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 2005,

.

,

,

,

,
Eastlake 3rd, D. "Domain Name System (DNS) Case Insensitivity Clariﬁcation"
RFC 4343 DOI 10.17487/RFC4343
rfc4343>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2006,

,
.

,

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

[RFC4861]

[RFC4941]

[RFC6724]

[RFC6980]

[RFC7493]

[RFC7525]

[RFC7556]

[RFC8028]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8615]

Narten, T., Nordmark, E., Simpson, W., and H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
<https://
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, September 2007,

,

,

.

,

Narten, T., Draves, R., and S. Krishnan "Privacy Extensions for Stateless Address
Autoconﬁguration in IPv6" RFC 4941 DOI 10.17487/RFC4941
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4941>

, September 2007,

,
,

,

.

Thaler, D., Ed., Draves, R., Matsumoto, A., and T. Chown "Default Address
Selection for Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 6724 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6724

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6724>

, September 2012,

,

.

,

,

Gont, F. "Security Implications of IPv6 Fragmentation with IPv6 Neighbor
,
,
Discovery" RFC 6980 DOI 10.17487/RFC6980
editor.org/info/rfc6980>

, August 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,
Bray, T., Ed. "The I-JSON Message Format" RFC 7493 DOI 10.17487/RFC7493
March 2015,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7493>

,

.

,

,
Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Anipko, D., Ed. "Multiple Provisioning Domain Architecture" RFC 7556 DOI
10.17487/RFC7556

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7556>

, June 2015,

,

,

Baker, F. and B. Carpenter "First-Hop Router Selection by Hosts in a Multi-Preﬁx
Network" RFC 8028 DOI 10.17487/RFC8028
editor.org/info/rfc8028>

, November 2016,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Nottingham, M. "Well-Known Uniform Resource Identiﬁers (URIs)" RFC 8615
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8615

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8615>

, May 2019,

,

,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[IANA-URN]

,

IANA "Uniform Resource Names (URN) Namespaces" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/urn-namespaces/>

,

.

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

[IEEE8021X]

[MPVD-API]

[MPVD-DNS]

[RFC2131]

[RFC3646]

[RFC3971]

[RFC4389]

[RFC6105]

[RFC6125]

[RFC6146]

[RFC6147]

[RFC6296]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks -- Port-Based
Network Access Control" IEEE 802.1X-2020 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2020.9018454
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9018454>

,

,

.

,

,

Kline, E. "Multiple Provisioning Domains API Requirements" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-kline-mif-mpvd-api-reqs-00
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kline-mif-mpvd-api-reqs-00>

, 1 November 2015,

<https://

,

.

,

Stenberg, M. and S. Barth "Multiple Provisioning Domains using Domain Name
System" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-stenberg-mif-mpvd-dns-00
, 15
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-stenberg-mif-mpvd-dns-00>
October 2015,
.

,
,

,

Droms, R. "Dynamic Host Conﬁguration Protocol" RFC 2131 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2131

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2131>

,
, March 1997,

,

,

.

,

Droms, R., Ed. "DNS Conﬁguration options for Dynamic Host Conﬁguration
Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)" RFC 3646 DOI 10.17487/RFC3646
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3646>

, December 2003,

,

,

.

Arkko, J., Ed., Kempf, J., Zill, B., and P. Nikander "SEcure Neighbor Discovery
(SEND)" RFC 3971 DOI 10.17487/RFC3971
editor.org/info/rfc3971>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2005,

.

,

,

,

Thaler, D., Talwar, M., and C. Patel "Neighbor Discovery Proxies (ND Proxy)"
, April 2006,
RFC 4389 DOI 10.17487/RFC4389
rfc4389>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

Levy-Abegnoli, E., Van de Velde, G., Popoviciu, C., and J. Mohacsi "IPv6 Router
Advertisement Guard" RFC 6105 DOI 10.17487/RFC6105
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6105>

,
, February 2011,

,

.

,

,

Saint-Andre, P. and J. Hodges "Representation and Veriﬁcation of Domain-Based
Application Service Identity within Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using
X.509 (PKIX) Certiﬁcates in the Context of Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
,
6125 DOI 10.17487/RFC6125
rfc6125>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

.

Bagnulo, M., Matthews, P., and I. van Beijnum "Stateful NAT64: Network
Address and Protocol Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers" RFC 6146
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6146

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6146>

, April 2011,

,

,

,

Bagnulo, M., Sullivan, A., Matthews, P., and I. van Beijnum "DNS64: DNS
Extensions for Network Address Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers"
, April 2011,
RFC 6147 DOI 10.17487/RFC6147
rfc6147>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

,

Wasserman, M. and F. Baker "IPv6-to-IPv6 Network Preﬁx Translation" RFC
,
6296 DOI 10.17487/RFC6296
rfc6296>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, June 2011,

.

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

[RFC6960]

[RFC7049]

[RFC7278]

[RFC7540]

[RFC8106]

[RFC8415]

Santesson, S., Myers, M., Ankney, R., Malpani, A., Galperin, S., and C. Adams
,
"X.509 Internet Public Key Infrastructure Online Certiﬁcate Status Protocol -
OCSP" RFC 6960 DOI 10.17487/RFC6960
,
info/rfc6960>

, June 2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

.

Bormann, C. and P. Hoﬀman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
RFC 7049 DOI 10.17487/RFC7049
rfc7049>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2013,

,
.

,

,

Byrne, C., Drown, D., and A. Vizdal "Extending an IPv6 /64 Preﬁx from a Third
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Mobile Interface to a LAN Link" RFC
7278 DOI 10.17487/RFC7278
,
rfc7278>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2014,

,

.

Belshe, M., Peon, R., and M. Thomson, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version
,
,
2 (HTTP/2)" RFC 7540 DOI 10.17487/RFC7540
editor.org/info/rfc7540>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

.

,

Jeong, J., Park, S., Beloeil, L., and S. Madanapalli "IPv6 Router Advertisement
,
Options for DNS Conﬁguration" RFC 8106 DOI 10.17487/RFC8106
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8106>

, March 2017,

,
.

,

Mrugalski, T., Siodelski, M., Volz, B., Yourtchenko, A., Richardson, M., Jiang, S.,
Lemon, T., and T. Winters "Dynamic Host Conﬁguration Protocol for IPv6
,
,
(DHCPv6)" RFC 8415 DOI 10.17487/RFC8415
editor.org/info/rfc8415>

, November 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

Acknowledgments

Many thanks to
as to

Basile Bruneau

Markus Stenberg

 and

Steven Barth

 for their earlier work on

[MPVD-DNS]

, as well

, who was author of an early draft version of this document.

Marcus Keane Mikael Abrahamsson Ray Bellis Zhen Cao Tim Chown Lorenzo

Thanks also to
Colitti Michael Di Bartolomeo Ian Farrer Phillip Hallam-Baker Bob Hinden Tatuya Jinmei Erik
,
Kline Ted Lemon Paul Hoﬀman Dave Thaler Suresh Krishnan Gorry Fairhurst Jen Lenkova
,
,
,
,
Veronika McKillop Mark Townsley
 for useful and interesting discussions
and reviews.

James Woodyatt

, and

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Thierry Danis
 for his integration eﬀort into the NEAT project, and

Finally, special thanks to
Jones
work.

 for his valuable input and implementation eﬀorts,

Tom

Rigil Salim

 for his implementation

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8801

Provisioning Domains

July 2020

Authors' Addresses

Pierre Pﬁster
Cisco
11 Rue Camille Desmoulins
92130 Issy-les-Moulineaux
France
Email:

 ppﬁster@cisco.com

Éric Vyncke
Cisco
De Kleetlaan, 6
1831 Diegem
Belgium
Email:

 evyncke@cisco.com

Tommy Pauly
Apple Inc.
One Apple Park Way
Cupertino California 95014
,
United States of America
Email:

 tpauly@apple.com

David Schinazi
Google LLC
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View California 94043
,
United States of America
Email:

 dschinazi.ietf@gmail.com

Wenqin Shao
Cisco
11 Rue Camille Desmoulins
92130 Issy-les-Moulineaux
France
Email:

 wenshao@cisco.com

Pﬁster, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

