Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8737
Standards Track
February 2020
2070-1721
R.B. Shoemaker
ISRG

RFC 8737
Automated Certiﬁcate Management Environment
(ACME) TLS Application‑Layer Protocol Negotiation
(ALPN) Challenge Extension

Abstract

This document speciﬁes a new challenge for the Automated Certiﬁcate Management
Environment (ACME) protocol that allows for domain control validation using TLS.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8737

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Shoemaker

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8737

ACME-TLS-ALPN

February 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  TLS with Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (TLS ALPN) Challenge

4.  acme-tls/1 Protocol Deﬁnition

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  SMI Security for PKIX Certiﬁcate Extension OID

6.2.  ALPN Protocol ID

6.3.  ACME Validation Method

7.  Normative References

Appendix A.  Design Rationale

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

The Automatic Certiﬁcate Management Environment (ACME)
methods for validating control of domain names via HTTP and DNS. Deployment experience has
shown it is also useful to be able to validate domain control using the TLS layer alone. In
particular, this allows hosting providers, Content Distribution Networks (CDNs), and TLS-
terminating load balancers to validate domain control without modifying the HTTP handling
behavior of their backends.

 speciﬁcation describes

[RFC8555]

This document speciﬁes a new TLS-based challenge type, tls-alpn-01. This challenge requires
negotiating a new application-layer protocol using the TLS Application-Layer Protocol
Negotiation (ALPN) Extension
deployment base, the ability to complete tls-alpn-01 challenges requires changes by service
providers, making it explicitly an opt-in process. Because service providers must proactively
deploy new code in order to implement tls-alpn-01, we can specify stronger controls in that code,
resulting in a stronger validation method.

. Because this protocol does not build on a pre-existing

[RFC7301]

Shoemaker

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8737

ACME-TLS-ALPN

February 2020

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  TLS with Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (TLS
ALPN) Challenge

The TLS with Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (TLS ALPN) validation method proves
control over a domain name by requiring the ACME client to conﬁgure a TLS server to respond to
speciﬁc connection attempts using the ALPN extension with identifying information. The ACME
server validates control of the domain name by connecting to a TLS server at one of the
addresses resolved for the domain name and verifying that a certiﬁcate with speciﬁc content is
presented.

The tls-alpn-01 ACME challenge object has the following format:

type (required, string):

The string "tls-alpn-01"

token (required, string):

A random value that uniquely identiﬁes the challenge. This value

MUST
 contain any characters outside the base64url

MUST NOT

have at least 128 bits of entropy. It
alphabet as described in
stripped. See

[RFC4086]

Section 5 of [RFC4648]

. Trailing '=' padding characters

MUST

 be

 for additional information on randomness requirements.

The client prepares for validation by constructing a self-signed certiﬁcate that
acmeIdentiﬁer extension and a subjectAlternativeName extension
subjectAlternativeName extension
domain name being validated. The acmeIdentiﬁer extension
[FIPS180-4]
MUST

 of the key authorization

 be critical so that the certiﬁcate isn't inadvertently used by non-ACME software.

 contain the SHA-256 digest
 for the challenge. The acmeIdentiﬁer extension

 contain a single dNSName entry where the value is the

MUST

 contain an

[RFC8555]

[RFC5280]

MUST

MUST

. The

The acmeIdentiﬁer extension is identiﬁed by the id-pe-acmeIdentiﬁer object identiﬁer (OID) in
the id-pe arc

[RFC5280]

:

id-pe-acmeIdentifier OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=  { id-pe 31 }

The extension has the following ASN.1

[X.680]

 format :

Authorization ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (32))

Shoemaker

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8737

ACME-TLS-ALPN

February 2020

The extnValue of the id-pe-acmeIdentiﬁer extension is the ASN.1 DER encoding
Authorization structure, which contains the SHA-256 digest of the key authorization for the
challenge.

[X.690]

 of the

Once this certiﬁcate has been created, it
TLS handshake where the "acme-tls/1" application-layer protocol has been negotiated and a
Server Name Indication (SNI) extension
[RFC6066]
name being validated.

 has been provided containing the domain

 be provisioned such that it is returned during a

MUST

A client responds by POSTing an empty JSON object ({}) to the challenge URL to acknowledge that
the challenge is ready to be validated by the server. The base64url encoding of the protected
headers and payload is described in

Section 6.1 of [RFC8555]

.

POST /acme/authz/1234/1
Host: example.com
Content-Type: application/jose+json

{
  "protected": base64url({
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "https://example.com/acme/acct/1",
    "nonce": "JHb54aT_KTXBWQOzGYkt9A",
    "url": "https://example.com/acme/authz/1234/1"
  }),
  "payload": base64url({}),
  "signature": "Q1bURgJoEslbD1c5...3pYdSMLio57mQNN4"
}

On receiving this request from a client, the server constructs and stores the key authorization
from the challenge "token" value and the current client account key.

The server then veriﬁes the client's control over the domain by verifying that the TLS server was
conﬁgured as expected using the following steps:

1.

The ACME server computes the expected SHA-256 digest of the key authorization.

2.

3.

The ACME server resolves the domain name being validated and chooses one of the IP
addresses returned for validation (the server
more than one is returned).

 validate against multiple addresses if

MAY

The ACME server initiates a TLS connection to the chosen IP address. This connection
use TCP port 443. The ACME server
name "acme-tls/1" and an SNI extension containing only the domain name being validated
during the TLS handshake.

 provide an ALPN extension with the single protocol

MUST

MUST

4.

The ACME server veriﬁes that during the TLS handshake the application-layer protocol
"acme-tls/1" was successfully negotiated (and that the ALPN extension contained only the
value "acme-tls/1") and that the certiﬁcate returned contains:

◦

a subjectAltName extension containing the dNSName being validated and no other entries

Shoemaker

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8737

ACME-TLS-ALPN

February 2020

◦

a critical acmeIdentiﬁer extension containing the expected SHA-256 digest computed in
step 1

The comparison of dNSNames
support Unicode identiﬁers, all dNSNames

 be case insensitive
MUST

MUST

[RFC4343]

. Note that as ACME doesn't

 be encoded using the rules of

[RFC3492]
.

If all of the above steps succeed, then the validation is successful. Otherwise, it fails.

4.  acme-tls/1 Protocol Deﬁnition

MUST

MUST NOT

 only be used for validating ACME tls-alpn-01 challenges. The

The "acme-tls/1" protocol
protocol consists of a TLS handshake in which the required validation information is
transmitted. The "acme-tls/1" protocol does not carry application data. Once the handshake is
completed, the client
immediately close the connection. While this protocol uses X.509 certiﬁcates, it does not use the
 and, as such, does not require a valid signature on
authentication method described in
the provided certiﬁcate nor require the TLS handshake to complete successfully. An ACME server
may wish to use an oﬀ-the-shelf TLS stack where it is not simple to allow these divergences in the
protocol as deﬁned. Because of this, an ACME server
either the certiﬁcate signature is invalid or the handshake doesn't fully complete.

 exchange any further data with the server and

 choose to withhold authorization if

[RFC5280]

MUST

MAY

ACME servers that implement "acme-tls/1"
when connecting to clients for validation.

MUST

 only negotiate TLS 1.2

[RFC5246]

 or higher

5.  Security Considerations

The design of this challenge relies on some assumptions centered around how an HTTPS server
behaves during validation.

The ﬁrst assumption is that when an HTTPS server is being used to serve content for multiple
DNS names from a single IP address, it properly segregates control of those names to the users
that own them. This means that if User A registers Host A and User B registers Host B, the HTTPS
server should not allow a TLS request using an SNI value for Host A to be served by User B or a
TLS connection with a server_name extension identifying Host B to be answered by User A. If the
HTTPS server allows User B to serve this request, it allows them to illegitimately validate control
of Host A to the ACME server.

The second assumption is that a server will not violate
"acme-tls/1" protocol without actually understanding it.

[RFC7301]

 by blindly agreeing to use the

To further mitigate the risk of users claiming domain names used by other users on the same
infrastructure hosting providers, CDNs, and other service providers
provide their own certiﬁcates for the TLS ALPN validation process. If providers wish to
implement TLS ALPN validation, they
themselves and not expose this functionality to users.

 only generate certiﬁcates used for validation

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

 allow users to

Shoemaker

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8737

ACME-TLS-ALPN

February 2020

The extensions to the ACME protocol described in this document build upon the Security
Considerations and threat model deﬁned in

Section 10.1 of [RFC8555]
.

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  SMI Security for PKIX Certiﬁcate Extension OID

Within the "Structure of Management Information (SMI) Numbers (MIB Module Registrations)"
registry, the following entry has been added to the "SMI Security for PKIX Certiﬁcate Extension"
(1.3.6.1.5.5.7.1) table.

Decimal Description

References

31

id-pe-acmeIdentiﬁer

RFC 8737

Table 1

6.2.  ALPN Protocol ID

Within the "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions" registry, the following entry has been
added to the "TLS Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) Protocol IDs" table.

Protocol

Identiﬁcation Sequence

Reference

acme-tls/1

0x61 0x63 0x6d 0x65 0x2d 0x74 0x6c 0x73 0x2f 0x31 ("acme-tls/1")

RFC 8737

Table 2

6.3.  ACME Validation Method

Within the "Automated Certiﬁcate Management Environment (ACME) Protocol" registry, the
following entry has been added to the "ACME Validation Methods" registry.

Label

Identiﬁer Type ACME

Reference

tls-alpn-01

dns

Y

RFC 8737

Table 3

7.  Normative References

[FIPS180-4]

[RFC2119]

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Secure Hash Standard
(SHS)" FIPS PUB 180-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4
nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf>

, August 2015,
.

<https://

,

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Shoemaker

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8737

ACME-TLS-ALPN

February 2020

[RFC3492]

[RFC4086]

[RFC4343]

[RFC4648]

[RFC5246]

[RFC5280]

[RFC6066]

[RFC7301]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8555]

[X.680]

[X.690]

,

Costello, A. "Punycode: A Bootstring encoding of Unicode for Internationalized
Domain Names in Applications (IDNA)" RFC 3492 DOI 10.17487/RFC3492
,
2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3492>

,

.

, March

Eastlake 3rd, D., Schiller, J., and S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, June 2005,

<https://

,

,

,

,

.

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Domain Name System (DNS) Case Insensitivity Clariﬁcation"
,
RFC 4343 DOI 10.17487/RFC4343
rfc4343>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2006,

,
.

,

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

Dierks, T. and E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
info/rfc5246>

, August 2008,

,
.

,

,

Cooper, D., Santesson, S., Farrell, S., Boeyen, S., Housley, R., and W. Polk
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation
List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
,
,
Deﬁnitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
editor.org/info/rfc6066>

, January 2011,

.

<https://www.rfc-

Friedl, S., Popov, A., Langley, A., and E. Stephan "Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension" RFC 7301 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7301

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7301>

, July 2014,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Barnes, R., Hoﬀman-Andrews, J., McCarney, D., and J. Kasten "Automatic
Certiﬁcate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8555 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8555

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8555>

, March 2019,

,

,

.

,

,

ITU-T "Information technology -- Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):
Speciﬁcation of basic notation" ITU-T Recommendation X.680 ISO/IEC
8824-1:2015

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.680-201508-I/en>

, August 2015,

,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information Technology -- ASN.1 encoding rules: Speciﬁcation of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690 ISO/IEC 8825-1:2015
August 2015,
<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690-201508-I/en>

,

,

,

.

Shoemaker

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8737

ACME-TLS-ALPN

February 2020

Appendix A.  Design Rationale

The TLS ALPN challenge exists to iterate on the TLS SNI challenge deﬁned in the early ACME
drafts. The TLS SNI challenge was convenient for service providers who were either operating
large TLS-layer load balancing systems at which they wanted to perform validation or running
servers fronting large numbers of DNS names from a single host as it allowed validation purely
within the TLS layer. The value provided by the TLS SNI challenge was considered large enough
that this document was written in order to provide a new challenge type that addressed the
existing security concerns.

A security issue in the TLS SNI challenge was discovered by Frans Rosen, which allowed users of
various service providers to illegitimately validate control of the DNS names of other users of the
provider. When the TLS SNI challenge was designed, it was assumed that a user would only be
able to respond to TLS traﬃc via SNI for domain names they had registered with a service
provider (i.e., if a user registered 'a.example', they would only be able to respond to SNI requests
for 'a.example' and not for SNI requests for 'b.example'). It turns out that a number of large
service providers do not honor this property. Because of this, users were able to respond to SNI
requests for the names used by the TLS SNI challenge validation process. This meant that (1) if
User A and User B had registered Host A and Host B, respectively, User A would be able to claim
the constructed SNI challenge name for Host B, and (2) when the validation connection was
made, User A would be able to answer, thereby proving 'control' of Host B. As the SNI name used
was a subdomain of the domain name being validated, rather than the domain name itself, it was
likely to not already be registered with the service provider for traﬃc routing, making it much
easier for a hijack to occur.

Acknowledgments

The author would like to thank all those that provided design insights and editorial review of this
,
document, including
Andrews Daniel McCarney Marcin Walas Martin Thomson
,
discovered the vulnerability in the TLS SNI method that necessitated the writing of this
speciﬁcation.

Richard Barnes Ryan Hurst Adam Langley Ryan Sleevi Jacob Hoﬀman-
, who

, and especially

Frans Rosen

,

,

,

,

,

Author's Address

Roland Bracewell Shoemaker
Internet Security Research Group
Email:

 roland@letsencrypt.org

Shoemaker

Standards Track

Page 8

