Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8976
Standards Track
February 2021
2070-1721
D. Wessels
Verisign

M. Weinberg
Amazon

P. Barber
Verisign

W. Kumari
Google

W. Hardaker
USC/ISI

RFC 8976
Message Digest for DNS Zones

Abstract

This document describes a protocol and new DNS Resource Record that provides a cryptographic
message digest over DNS zone data at rest. The ZONEMD Resource Record conveys the digest
data in the zone itself. When used in combination with DNSSEC, ZONEMD allows recipients to
verify the zone contents for data integrity and origin authenticity. This provides assurance that
received zone data matches published data, regardless of how the zone data has been
transmitted and received. When used without DNSSEC, ZONEMD functions as a checksum,
guarding only against unintentional changes.

ZONEMD does not replace DNSSEC: DNSSEC protects individual RRsets (DNS data with ﬁne
granularity), whereas ZONEMD protects a zone's data as a whole, whether consumed by
authoritative name servers, recursive name servers, or any other applications.

As speciﬁed herein, ZONEMD is impractical for large, dynamic zones due to the time and
resources required for digest calculation. However, the ZONEMD record is extensible so that new
digest schemes may be added in the future to support large, dynamic zones.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8976

.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Motivation

1.2.  Alternative Approaches

1.3.  Design Overview

1.4.  Use Cases

1.4.1.  Root Zone

1.4.2.  Providers, Secondaries, and Anycast

1.4.3.  Response Policy Zones

1.4.4.  Centralized Zone Data Service

1.4.5.  General Purpose Comparison Check

1.5.  Terminology

2.  The ZONEMD Resource Record

2.1.  Non-apex ZONEMD Records

2.2.  ZONEMD RDATA Wire Format

2.2.1.  The Serial Field

2.2.2.  The Scheme Field

2.2.3.  The Hash Algorithm Field

2.2.4.  The Digest Field

2.3.  ZONEMD Presentation Format

2.4.  ZONEMD Example

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

2.5.  Including ZONEMD RRs in a Zone

3.  Calculating the Digest

3.1.  Add ZONEMD Placeholder

3.2.  Optionally, Sign the Zone

3.3.  Scheme-Speciﬁc Processing

3.3.1.  The SIMPLE Scheme

3.3.1.1.  SIMPLE Scheme Inclusion/Exclusion Rules

3.3.1.2.  SIMPLE Scheme Digest Calculation

3.4.  Update ZONEMD RR

4.  Verifying Zone Digest

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  ZONEMD RRtype

5.2.  ZONEMD Scheme

5.3.  ZONEMD Hash Algorithms

6.  Security Considerations

6.1.  Using Zone Digest without DNSSEC

6.2.  Attacks against the Zone Digest

6.3.  Use of Multiple ZONEMD Hash Algorithms

6.4.  DNSSEC Timing Considerations

6.5.  Attacks Utilizing ZONEMD Queries

6.6.  Resilience and Fragility

7.  Performance Considerations

7.1.  SIMPLE SHA384

8.  Privacy Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Example Zones with Digests

A.1.  Simple EXAMPLE Zone

A.2.  Complex EXAMPLE Zone

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

A.3.  EXAMPLE Zone with Multiple Digests

A.4.  The URI.ARPA Zone

A.5.  The ROOT-SERVERS.NET Zone

Appendix B.  Implementation Status

B.1.  Authors' Implementation

B.2.  Shane Kerr's Implementation

B.3.  NIC Chile Lab's Implementation

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC8499]

). Zones are often stored as ﬁles in the so-called "master ﬁle format"

In the DNS, a zone is the collection of authoritative resource records (RRs) sharing a common
origin (
(
[RFC1034]
(
[RFC5936]
distributed outside of the DNS with any ﬁle transfer protocol such as FTP, HTTP, and rsync, or
even as email attachments. Currently, there is no standard way to compute a hash or message
digest for a stand-alone zone.

). Zones are generally distributed among name servers using the zone transfer (AXFR)
) and incremental zone transfer (IXFR) (

) protocols. They can also be

[RFC1995]

This document speciﬁes an RR type that provides a cryptographic message digest of the data in a
zone. It allows a receiver of the zone to verify the zone's integrity and authenticity when used in
combination with DNSSEC. The digest RR is a part of the zone itself, allowing veriﬁcation of the
zone, no matter how it is transmitted. The digest uses the wire format of zone data in a canonical
ordering. Thus, it is independent of presentation format such as whitespace, capitalization, and
comments.

This speciﬁcation is

OPTIONAL

 to implement by both publishers and consumers of zone data.

1.1.  Motivation

The primary motivation for this protocol enhancement is the desire to verify the data integrity
and origin authenticity of a stand-alone zone, regardless of how it is transmitted. A consumer of
zone data should be able to verify that it is as published by the zone operator.

Note, however, that integrity and authenticity can only be assured when the zone is signed.
DNSSEC provides three strong security guarantees relevant to this protocol:

1.

whether or not to expect DNSSEC records in the zone,

2.

whether or not to expect a ZONEMD record in a signed zone, and

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

3.

whether or not the ZONEMD record has been altered since it was signed.

A secondary motivation is to provide the equivalent of a checksum, allowing a zone recipient to
check for unintended changes and operational errors such as accidental truncation.

1.2.  Alternative Approaches

One approach to preventing data tampering and corruption is to secure the distribution channel.
The DNS has a number of features that are already used for channel security. Perhaps the most
widely used is DNS transaction signatures (TSIGs) (
and a message digest to protect individual query and response messages. It is generally used to
authenticate and validate UPDATE (
messages.

). A TSIG uses shared secret keys

), and IXFR (

)
[RFC1995]

[RFC8945]

[RFC2136]

[RFC5936]

), AXFR (

DNS Request and Transaction Signatures (SIG(0)) (
authenticates individual DNS transactions. Whereas SIG records normally cover speciﬁc RR
types, SIG(0) is used to sign an entire DNS message. Unlike TSIG, SIG(0) uses public key
cryptography rather than shared secrets.

) is another protocol extension that

[RFC2931]

The Transport Layer Security protocol suite also provides channel security. The DPRIVE Working
). One
Group is in the process of specifying DNS Zone Transfer-over-TLS (
can also easily imagine the distribution of zones over HTTPS-enabled web servers as well as DNS-
over-HTTPS (

[DPRIVE-XFR-OVER-TLS]

[RFC8484]

).

Unfortunately, the protections provided by these channel security techniques are (in practice)
ephemeral and are not retained after the data transfer is complete. They ensure that the client
receives the data from the expected server and that the data sent by the server is not modiﬁed
during transmission. However, they do not guarantee that the server transmits the data as
originally published and do not provide any methods to verify data that is read after
transmission is complete. For example, a name server loading saved zone data upon restart
cannot guarantee that the on-disk data has not been modiﬁed. Such modiﬁcation could be the
result of an accidental corruption of the ﬁle or perhaps an incomplete saving of the ﬁle (
[DISK-
FULL-FAILURE]

). For these reasons, it is preferable to protect the integrity of the data itself.

Why not simply rely on DNSSEC, which provides certain data security guarantees? For zones that
are signed, a recipient could validate all of the signed RRsets. Additionally, denial-of-existence
records prove that RRsets have not been added or removed. However, delegations (non-apex NS
records) are not signed by DNSSEC and neither are any glue records. ZONEMD protects the
integrity of delegation, glue, and other records that are not otherwise covered by DNSSEC.
Furthermore, zones that employ NSEC3 with Opt-Out (
) are susceptible to the removal
or addition of names between the signed nodes. Whereas DNSSEC primarily protects consumers
of DNS response messages, this protocol protects consumers of zones.

[RFC5155]

There are existing tools and protocols that provide data security, such as OpenPGP (
and S/MIME (
signatures alongside the root zone and other ﬁles available there. However, this is a detached
signature with no strong association to the corresponding zone ﬁle other than its timestamp.

). In fact, the internic.net site publishes Pretty Good Privacy (PGP)

[RFC8551]

)
[RFC4880]

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

Attached signatures are of course possible, but these necessarily change the format of the ﬁle
being distributed; a zone signed with OpenPGP or S/MIME no longer looks like a DNS zone and
could not directly be loaded into a name server. Once loaded, the signature data is lost, so it
cannot be further propagated.

It seems the desire for data security in DNS zones was envisioned as far back as 1997.
is an obsoleted speciﬁcation of the ﬁrst generation DNSSEC Security Extensions. It describes a
zone transfer signature, identiﬁed as the AXFR SIG, which is similar to the technique proposed by
this document. That is, it proposes ordering all (signed) RRsets in a zone, hashing their contents,
and then signing the zone hash. The AXFR SIG is described only for use during zone transfers. It
did not postulate the need to validate zone data distributed outside of the DNS. Furthermore, its
, omits the AXFR SIG while at the same time introducing an IXFR SIG. (Note:
successor,
RFC 2535 was obsoleted by
[RFC4035]

,
[RFC4033] [RFC4034]

[RFC2535]

[RFC2065]

, and

.)

1.3.  Design Overview

This document speciﬁes a new Resource Record type to convey a message digest of the content of
a zone. The digest is calculated at the time of zone publication. If the zone is signed with DNSSEC,
any modiﬁcations of the digest can be detected. The procedures for digest calculation and
DNSSEC signing are similar. Both require data to be processed in a well-deﬁned order and
format. It may be possible to perform DNSSEC signing and digest calculation in parallel.

The zone digest is designed to be used on zones that have infrequent updates. As speciﬁed
herein, the digest is recalculated over the entire zone content each time the zone is updated. This
speciﬁcation does not provide an eﬃcient mechanism for updating the digest on incremental
updates of zone data. It is, however, extensible so that future schemes may be deﬁned to support
eﬃcient incremental digest updates.

It is expected that veriﬁcation of a zone digest will be implemented in name server software.
That is, a name server can verify the zone data it was given and refuse to serve a zone that fails
veriﬁcation. For signed zones, the name server needs a trust anchor to perform DNSSEC
validation. For signed non-root zones, the name server may need to send queries to validate a
chain of trust. Digest veriﬁcation could also be performed externally.

1.4.  Use Cases

1.4.1.  Root Zone

[InterNIC]

) is one of the most widely distributed DNS zones on the Internet,
) at the time of this writing.

The root zone (
served by more than 1000 separate instances (
Additionally, many organizations conﬁgure their own name servers to serve the root zone locally.
Reasons for doing so include privacy and reduced access time.
 describes one way to do
this. As the root zone spreads beyond its traditional deployment boundaries, the veriﬁcation of
the completeness of the zone contents becomes more important.

[ROOT-SERVERS]

[RFC8806]

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

1.4.2.  Providers, Secondaries, and Anycast

Since its very early days, the developers of the DNS recognized the importance of secondary
name servers and service diversity. However, modern DNS service has complex provisioning that
includes multiple third-party providers (
[RFC3258]
(
possible to have multiple levels, multiple parties, and multiple protocols involved in the
distribution of zone data. This complexity introduces new places for problems to arise. The zone
digest protects the integrity of data that ﬂows through such systems.

). Instead of a simple primary-to-secondary zone distribution system, today it is

) and hundreds of anycast instances

[RFC8901]

1.4.3.  Response Policy Zones

A Response Policy Zone (RPZ) is "a mechanism to introduce a customized policy in Domain Name
System servers, so that recursive resolvers return possibly modiﬁed results" (
). The policy
information is carried inside specially constructed DNS zones. A number of companies provide
RPZ feeds, which are consumed by name server and ﬁrewall products. While RPZs can be signed
with DNSSEC, the data is not queried directly and would not be subject to DNSSEC validation.

[RPZ]

1.4.4.  Centralized Zone Data Service

), which is a repository of top-level
ICANN operates the Centralized Zone Data Service (
domain zone ﬁles. Users that have been granted access are then able to download zone data.
Adding a zone digest to these would provide CZDS users with assurances that the data has not
been modiﬁed between origination and retrieval. Note that ZONEMD could be added to zone
data supplied to CZDS without requiring it to be present in the zone data served by production
name servers, since the digest is inherently attached to the speciﬁc copy of the zone.

[CZDS]

1.4.5.  General Purpose Comparison Check

Since the zone digest calculation does not depend on presentation format, it could be used to
compare multiple copies of a zone received from diﬀerent sources, or copies generated by
diﬀerent processes. In this case, it serves as a checksum and can be useful even for unsigned
zones.

1.5.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The terms Private Use, Reserved, Unassigned, and Speciﬁcation Required are to be interpreted as
deﬁned in

[RFC8126]

.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

2.  The ZONEMD Resource Record

This section describes the ZONEMD Resource Record, including its ﬁelds, wire format, and
presentation format. The Type value for the ZONEMD RR is 63. The ZONEMD RR is class
independent. The RDATA of the resource record consists of four ﬁelds: Serial, Scheme, Hash
Algorithm, and Digest.

2.1.  Non-apex ZONEMD Records

This document speciﬁes ZONEMD RRs located at the zone apex. Non-apex ZONEMD RRs are not
 be used
forbidden, but have no meaning in this speciﬁcation. Non-apex ZONEMD RRs
for veriﬁcation.

MUST NOT

During digest calculation, non-apex ZONEMD RRs are treated as ordinary RRs. They are digested
as is, and the RR is not replaced by a placeholder RR.

Unless explicitly stated otherwise, "ZONEMD" always refers to apex records throughout this
document.

2.2.  ZONEMD RDATA Wire Format

The ZONEMD RDATA wire format is encoded as follows:

                     1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             Serial                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    Scheme     |Hash Algorithm |                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
|                             Digest                            |
/                                                               /
/                                                               /
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

2.2.1.  The Serial Field

The Serial ﬁeld is a 32-bit unsigned integer in network byte order. It is the serial number from
the zone's SOA record (

) for which the zone digest was generated.

[RFC1035], Section 3.3.13

It is included here to clearly bind the ZONEMD RR to a particular version of the zone's content.
Without the serial number, a stand-alone ZONEMD digest has no obvious association to any
particular instance of a zone.

2.2.2.  The Scheme Field

The Scheme ﬁeld is an 8-bit unsigned integer that identiﬁes the methods by which data is
collated and presented as input to the hashing function.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

Herein, SIMPLE, with Scheme value 1, is the only standardized Scheme deﬁned for ZONEMD
records and it
further described in Section 5.

 be supported by implementations. The "ZONEMD Schemes" registry is

MUST

Scheme values 240-254 are allocated for Private Use.

2.2.3.  The Hash Algorithm Field

The Hash Algorithm ﬁeld is an 8-bit unsigned integer that identiﬁes the cryptographic hash
algorithm used to construct the digest.

[RFC6234]
Herein, SHA384 (
Algorithm deﬁned for ZONEMD records that
MUST
SHA384 is used, the size of the Digest ﬁeld is 48 octets. The result of the SHA384 digest algorithm
MUST NOT

 be truncated, and the entire 48-octet digest is published in the ZONEMD record.

), with Hash Algorithm value 1, is the only standardized Hash

 be supported by implementations. When

), with Hash Algorithm value 2, is also deﬁned for ZONEMD records and

[RFC6234]
 be supported by implementations. When SHA512 is used, the size of the Digest ﬁeld is 64
 be truncated, and the entire 64-octet

SHA512 (
SHOULD
octets. The result of the SHA512 digest algorithm
digest is published in the ZONEMD record.

MUST NOT

Hash Algorithm values 240-254 are allocated for Private Use.

The "ZONEMD Hash Algorithms" registry is further described in Section 5.

2.2.4.  The Digest Field

The Digest ﬁeld is a variable-length sequence of octets containing the output of the hash
algorithm. The length of the Digest ﬁeld is determined by deducting the ﬁxed size of the Serial,
Scheme, and Hash Algorithm ﬁelds from the RDATA size in the ZONEMD RR header.

MUST NOT

The Digest ﬁeld
algorithms speciﬁed herein are never truncated. Digests for future hash algorithms
truncated but
equivalent strength.

 be truncated to a length that results in less than 96 bits (12 octets) of

 be shorter than 12 octets. Digests for the SHA384 and SHA512 hash

MUST NOT

MAY

 be

Section 3 describes how to calculate the digest for a zone. Section 4 describes how to use the
digest to verify the contents of a zone.

2.3.  ZONEMD Presentation Format

The presentation format of the RDATA portion is as follows:

•

The Serial ﬁeld is represented as an unsigned decimal integer.

•

The Scheme ﬁeld is represented as an unsigned decimal integer.

•

The Hash Algorithm ﬁeld is represented as an unsigned decimal integer.

•

The Digest is represented as a sequence of case-insensitive hexadecimal digits. Whitespace is
allowed within the hexadecimal text.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

2.4.  ZONEMD Example

The following example shows a ZONEMD RR in presentation format:

example.com. 86400 IN ZONEMD 2018031500 1 1 (
    FEBE3D4CE2EC2FFA4BA99D46CD69D6D29711E55217057BEE
    7EB1A7B641A47BA7FED2DD5B97AE499FAFA4F22C6BD647DE )

2.5.  Including ZONEMD RRs in a Zone

The zone operator chooses an appropriate hash algorithm and scheme and includes the
calculated zone digest in the apex ZONEMD RRset. The zone operator
deﬁned hash algorithms and schemes, including the Private Use code points.

MAY

 choose any of the

 contain multiple records to support algorithm agility (

[BCP201]

). When

MAY

The ZONEMD RRset
multiple ZONEMD RRs are present, each
tuple. It is
in the process of transitioning to a new scheme or hash algorithm.

RECOMMENDED

MUST

 that a zone include only one ZONEMD RR, unless the zone operator is

 specify a unique Scheme and Hash Algorithm

3.  Calculating the Digest

The algorithm described in this section is designed for the common case of oﬄine DNSSEC
signing. Slight deviations may be permitted or necessary in other situations, such as with
unsigned zones or online DNSSEC signing. Implementations that deviate from the described
algorithm are advised to ensure that it produces ZONEMD RRs, signatures, and denial-of-
existence records that are identical to the ones generated by this procedure.

3.1.  Add ZONEMD Placeholder

In preparation for calculating the zone digest(s), any existing ZONEMD records (and covering
RRSIGs) at the zone apex are ﬁrst deleted.

Prior to calculation of the digest, and prior to signing with DNSSEC, one or more placeholder
ZONEMD records are added to the zone apex. This ensures that denial-of-existence (NSEC,
NSEC3) records are created correctly if the zone is signed with DNSSEC. If placeholders were not
added prior to signing, the later addition of ZONEMD records would also require updating the
Type Bit Maps ﬁeld of any apex NSEC/NSEC3 RRs, which then invalidates the calculated digest
value.

When multiple ZONEMD RRs are published in the zone, e.g., during an algorithm rollover, each
MUST

 specify a unique Scheme and Hash Algorithm tuple.

RECOMMENDED

It is
 that the TTL of the ZONEMD record match the TTL of the Start of Authority
(SOA). However, the TTL of the ZONEMD record may be safely ignored during veriﬁcation in all
cases.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

In the placeholder record, the Serial ﬁeld is set to the current SOA Serial. The Scheme ﬁeld is set
to the value for the chosen collation scheme. The Hash Algorithm ﬁeld is set to the value for the
chosen hash algorithm. Since apex ZONEMD records are excluded from digest calculation, the
value of the Digest ﬁeld does not matter at this point in the process.

3.2.  Optionally, Sign the Zone

Following the addition of placeholder records, the zone may be signed with DNSSEC. When the
digest calculation is complete, and the ZONEMD record is updated, the signature(s) for the
ZONEMD RRset
 be recalculated and updated as well. Therefore, the signer is not required
to calculate a signature over the placeholder record at this step in the process, but it is harmless
to do so.

MUST

3.3.  Scheme-Speciﬁc Processing

Herein, only the SIMPLE collation scheme is deﬁned. Additional schemes may be deﬁned in
future updates to this document.

3.3.1.  The SIMPLE Scheme

For the SIMPLE scheme, the digest is calculated over the zone as a whole. This means that a
change to a single RR in the zone requires iterating over all RRs in the zone to recalculate the
digest. SIMPLE is a good choice for zones that are small and/or stable, but it is probably not good
for zones that are large and/or dynamic.

Calculation of a zone digest requires RRs to be processed in a consistent format and ordering.
This speciﬁcation uses DNSSEC's canonical on-the-wire RR format (without name compression)
and ordering as speciﬁed in Sections 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 of
 with the additional provision
 be numerically ordered, in ascending order, by
that RRsets having the same owner name
their numeric RR TYPE.

[RFC4034]

MUST

3.3.1.1.  SIMPLE Scheme Inclusion/Exclusion Rules

When iterating over records in the zone, the following inclusion/exclusion rules apply:

•

All records in the zone, including glue records,
subsequent rule.

MUST

 be included unless excluded by a

•

Occluded data (

[RFC5936], Section 3.5 MUST

)

 be included.

•

If there are duplicate RRs with equal owner, class, type, and RDATA, only one instance is
included (

[RFC4034], Section 6.3

) and the duplicates

 be omitted.

MUST

•

The placeholder apex ZONEMD RR(s)

MUST NOT

 be included.

•

If the zone is signed, DNSSEC RRs

MUST

 be included, except:

•

The RRSIG covering the apex ZONEMD RRset
be updated after all digests have been calculated.

MUST NOT

 be included because the RRSIG will

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

3.3.1.2.  SIMPLE Scheme Digest Calculation

A zone digest using the SIMPLE scheme is calculated by concatenating all RRs in the zone, in the
format and order described in Section 3.3.1 subject to the inclusion/exclusion rules described in
Section 3.3.1.1, and then applying the chosen hash algorithm:

digest = hash( RR(1) | RR(2) | RR(3) | ... )

where "|" denotes concatenation.

3.4.  Update ZONEMD RR

The calculated zone digest is inserted into the placeholder ZONEMD RR. Repeat for each digest if
multiple digests are to be published.

If the zone is signed with DNSSEC, the RRSIG record(s) covering the ZONEMD RRset
added or updated. Because the ZONEMD placeholder was added prior to signing, the zone will
already have the appropriate denial-of-existence (NSEC, NSEC3) records.

MUST

 then be

Some DNSSEC implementations (especially "online signing") might update the SOA serial number
whenever a new signature is made. To preserve the calculated digest, generation of a ZONEMD
 also result in a change to the SOA serial number. The ZONEMD RR and the
signature
 be published at the same time.
matching SOA

MUST NOT

MUST

4.  Verifying Zone Digest

The recipient of a zone that has a ZONEMD RR veriﬁes the zone by calculating the digest as
follows:

Note: If multiple ZONEMD RRs are present in the zone, e.g., during an algorithm
rollover, a match using any one of the recipient's supported Schemes and Hash
Algorithms is suﬃcient to verify the zone. The veriﬁer
its Scheme and Hash Algorithm violates local policy.

 ignore a ZONEMD RR if

MAY

1. The veriﬁer

MUST

 ﬁrst determine whether or not to expect DNSSEC records in the zone. By

examining locally conﬁgured trust anchors and, if necessary, querying for and validating
Delegation Signer (DS) RRs in the parent zone, the veriﬁer knows whether or not the zone to
be veriﬁed should include DNSSEC keys and signatures. For zones where signatures are not
expected, or if DNSSEC validation is not performed, digest veriﬁcation continues at step 4
below.

2. For zones where signatures are expected, the existence of the apex ZONEMD record

MUST
validated. If the DNSSEC data proves the ZONEMD RRset does not exist, digest veriﬁcation
cannot occur. If the DNSSEC data proves the ZONEMD does exist, but is not found in the
zone, digest veriﬁcation

 be considered successful.

MUST NOT

 be

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

3. For zones where signatures are expected, the SOA and ZONEMD RRsets

MUST

 have valid

signatures, chaining up to a trust anchor. If DNSSEC validation of the SOA or ZONEMD RRsets
 be considered successful.
fails, digest veriﬁcation

MUST NOT

4. When multiple ZONEMD RRs are present, each

MUST

 specify a unique Scheme and Hash

Algorithm tuple. If the ZONEMD RRset contains more than one RR with the same Scheme and
Hash Algorithm, digest veriﬁcation for those ZONEMD RRs
successful.

 be considered

MUST NOT

5.

Loop over all apex ZONEMD RRs and perform the following steps:

a. The SOA Serial ﬁeld

MUST
match, digest veriﬁcation

 exactly match the ZONEMD Serial ﬁeld. If the ﬁelds do not
 be considered successful with this ZONEMD RR.
MUST NOT

b.

The Scheme ﬁeld
veriﬁcation

MUST NOT

MUST

 be checked. If the veriﬁer does not support the given scheme,
 be considered successful with this ZONEMD RR.

c.

The Hash Algorithm ﬁeld
algorithm, veriﬁcation

MUST

 be checked. If the veriﬁer does not support the given hash

MUST NOT

 be considered successful with this ZONEMD RR.

d.

The Digest ﬁeld size
 be checked. If the size of the given Digest ﬁeld is smaller than 12
octets, or if the size is not equal to the size expected for the corresponding Hash Algorithm,
veriﬁcation

 be considered successful with this ZONEMD RR.

MUST NOT

MUST

e.

The zone digest is computed over the zone data as described in Section 3.3 using the
Scheme and Hash Algorithm for the current ZONEMD RR.

f.

The computed digest is compared to the received digest. If the two digest values match,
veriﬁcation is considered successful. Otherwise, veriﬁcation
successful for this ZONEMD RR.

 be considered

MUST NOT

Each time zone veriﬁcation is performed, the veriﬁer
successful or unsuccessful. When unsuccessful, the veriﬁer
veriﬁcation did not succeed.

SHOULD

 report the status as either

SHOULD

 report the reason(s) that

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  ZONEMD RRtype

This document deﬁnes a new DNS RR type, ZONEMD, whose value 63 has been allocated by IANA
from the "Resource Record (RR) TYPEs" subregistry of the "Domain Name System (DNS)
Parameters" registry:

ZONEMD
63

Type:
Value:
Meaning:
Reference:

Message Digest Over Zone Data

[RFC8976]

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

5.2.  ZONEMD Scheme

IANA has created a new subregistry in the "Domain Name System (DNS) Parameters" registry as
follows:

Registry Name:
Registration Procedure:
[RFC8976]
Reference:

ZONEMD Schemes

Speciﬁcation Required

Value

Description

Mnemonic

Reference

0

1

Reserved

[RFC8976]

Simple ZONEMD collation

SIMPLE

[RFC8976]

2-239

Unassigned

240-254

Private Use

N/A

[RFC8976]

255

Reserved

[RFC8976]

Table 1: ZONEMD Scheme Registry

5.3.  ZONEMD Hash Algorithms

IANA has created a new subregistry in the "Domain Name System (DNS) Parameters" registry as
follows:

Registry Name:
Registration Procedure:
[RFC8976]
Reference:

ZONEMD Hash Algorithms

Speciﬁcation Required

Value

Description Mnemonic

Reference

0

1

2

Reserved

[RFC8976]

SHA-384

SHA384

[RFC8976]

SHA-512

SHA512

[RFC8976]

3-239

Unassigned

240-254

Private Use

N/A

[RFC8976]

255

Reserved

[RFC8976]

Table 2: ZONEMD Hash Algorithms Registry

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

6.  Security Considerations

6.1.  Using Zone Digest without DNSSEC

Users of ZONEMD with unsigned zones are advised that it provides no real protection against
attacks. While zone digests can be used in the absence of DNSSEC, this only provides protection
against accidental zone corruption such as transmission errors and truncation. When used in
this manner, it eﬀectively serves only as a checksum. For zones not signed with DNSSEC, an
attacker can make any zone modiﬁcations appear to be valid by recomputing the Digest ﬁeld of a
ZONEMD RR.

6.2.  Attacks against the Zone Digest

An attacker, whose goal is to modify zone content before it is used by the victim, may consider a
number of diﬀerent approaches.

The attacker might perform a downgrade attack to an unsigned zone. This is why Section 4 talks
about determining whether or not to expect DNSSEC signatures for the zone in step 1.

The attacker might perform a downgrade attack by removing one or more ZONEMD records.
Such a removal is detectable only with DNSSEC validation and is why Section 4 talks about
checking denial-of-existence proofs in step 2 and signature validation in step 3.

The attacker might alter the Scheme, Hash Algorithm, or Digest ﬁelds of the ZONEMD record.
Such modiﬁcations are detectable only with DNSSEC validation.

[BCP201]

As stated in
techniques and computing resources improve with time. Implementors and publishers of zone
digests should anticipate the need for algorithm agility on long timescales.

, cryptographic algorithms age and become weaker as cryptanalysis

6.3.  Use of Multiple ZONEMD Hash Algorithms

When a zone publishes multiple ZONEMD RRs, the overall security is only as good as the weakest
hash algorithm in use. For this reason, Section 2 recommends only publishing multiple ZONEMD
RRs when transitioning to a new scheme or hash algorithm. Once the transition is complete, the
old scheme or hash algorithm should be removed from the ZONEMD RRset.

6.4.  DNSSEC Timing Considerations

As with all DNSSEC signatures, the ability to perform signature validation of a ZONEMD record is
limited in time. If the DS record(s) or trust anchors for the zone to be veriﬁed are no longer
available, the recipient cannot validate the ZONEMD RRset. This could happen even if the
ZONEMD signature is still current (not expired), since the zone's DS record(s) may have been
withdrawn following a Key Signing Key (KSK) rollover.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

For zones where it may be important to validate a ZONEMD RRset through its entire signature
validity period, the zone operator should ensure that KSK rollover timing takes this into
consideration.

6.5.  Attacks Utilizing ZONEMD Queries

Nothing in this speciﬁcation prevents clients from making, and servers from responding to,
ZONEMD queries. Servers
this can be used as a CPU resource exhaustion attack.

 calculate zone digests dynamically (for each query) as

SHOULD NOT

ZONEMD responses could be used in a distributed denial-of-service ampliﬁcation attack. The
ZONEMD RR is moderately sized, much like the DS RR. A single ZONEMD RR contributes
approximately 65 to 95 octets to a DNS response for digest types deﬁned herein. Other RR types,
such as DNS Public Key (DNSKEY), can result in larger ampliﬁcation eﬀects.

6.6.  Resilience and Fragility

ZONEMD is used to detect incomplete or corrupted zone data prior to its use, thereby increasing
resilience by not using corrupt data, but also introduces some denial-of-service fragility by
making good data in a zone unavailable if some other data is missing or corrupt. Publishers and
consumers of zones containing ZONEMD records should be aware of these trade-oﬀs. While the
intention is to secure the zone data, misconﬁgurations or implementation bugs are generally
indistinguishable from intentional tampering and could lead to service failures when
veriﬁcation is performed automatically.

Zone publishers may want to deploy ZONEMD gradually perhaps by utilizing one of the Private
Use hash algorithm code points listed in Section 5.3. Similarly, recipients may want to initially
conﬁgure veriﬁcation failures only as a warning, and later as an error after gaining experience
and conﬁdence with the feature.

7.  Performance Considerations

This section is provided to make zone publishers aware of the performance requirements and
implications of including ZONEMD RRs in a zone.

7.1.  SIMPLE SHA384

As mentioned previously, the SIMPLE scheme may be impractical for use in zones that are either
large or highly dynamic. Zone publishers should carefully consider the use of ZONEMD in such
zones since it might cause consumers of zone data (e.g., secondary name servers) to expend
resources on digest calculation. For such use cases, it is recommended that ZONEMD only be
used when digest calculation time is signiﬁcantly less than propagation times and update
intervals.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

The authors' implementation (Appendix B.1) includes an option to record and report CPU usage
of its operation. The software was used to generate digests for more than 800 Top-Level Domain
(TLD) zones available from
scheme and SHA384 hash algorithm grouped by zone size. The Rate column is the mean amount
of time per RR to calculate the digest, running on commodity hardware in early 2020.

. The table below summarizes the results for the SIMPLE

[CZDS]

Zone Size (RRs)

Rate (msec/RR)

10 - 99

100 - 999

1000 - 9999

10000 - 99999

100000 - 999999

1000000 - 9999999

10000000 - 99999999

Table 3

0.00683

0.00551

0.00505

0.00602

0.00845

0.0108

0.0148

For example, based on the above table, it takes approximately 0.13 seconds to calculate a SIMPLE
SHA384 digest for a zone with 22,000 RRs, and about 2.5 seconds for a zone with 300,000 RRs.

These benchmarks attempt to emulate a worst-case scenario and take into account the time
required to canonicalize the zone for processing. Each of the 800+ zones were measured three
times and then averaged, with a diﬀerent random sorting of the input data prior to each
measurement.

8.  Privacy Considerations

This speciﬁcation has no impact on user privacy.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

.

,

,

,
Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation" STD 13
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

.

,

,

,

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

[RFC2119]

[RFC4034]

[RFC6234]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "Resource Records for
the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4034 DOI 10.17487/RFC4034
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4034>

, March 2005,

,

,

.

Eastlake 3rd, D. and T. Hansen "US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and SHA-
based HMAC and HKDF)" RFC 6234 DOI 10.17487/RFC6234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6234>

, May 2011,

,

,

.

,

<https://

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

[BCP201]

[CZDS]

Housley, R. "Guidelines for Cryptographic Algorithm Agility and Selecting
Mandatory-to-Implement Algorithms" BCP 201 RFC 7696

, November 2015.

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp201>

Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) "Centralized
Zone Data Service"

<https://czds.icann.org/>

, October 2018,

,

.

[DISK-FULL-FAILURE]

DENIC "Background of the Partial Failure of the Name Service for .de

,
, May 2010,

Domains"
www.denic.de/en/denic-in-dialogue/news/2733.html>

<https://web.archive.org/web/20100618032705/https://

.

[DNS-TOOLS]

"DNS tools for zone signature (ﬁle, pkcs11-hsm) and validation, and zone digest
<https://github.com/niclabs/dns-
(ZONEMD)" commit 489de21
tools>

, December 2020,

,

.

[DPRIVE-XFR-OVER-TLS]

Toorop, W., Dickinson, S., Sahib, S., Aras, P., and A. Mankin "DNS
,

Zone Transfer-over-TLS" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-dprive-xfr-
over-tls-05
over-tls-05>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-dprive-xfr-

, 20 January 2021,

,

.

,

[InterNIC]

,
InterNIC "Index of ftp://rs.internic.net/"
.
domain/>

, May 2018,

<ftp://ftp.internic.net/

[LDNS-ZONE-DIGEST]

"Implementation of Message Digests for DNS Zones using the ldns
,
.

library" commit 71c0cd1
digest>

<https://github.com/verisign/ldns-zone-

, January 2021,

[RFC1995]

,

Ohta, M. "Incremental Zone Transfer in DNS" RFC 1995 DOI 10.17487/RFC1995
August 1996,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1995>

.

,

,

,

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

[RFC2065]

[RFC2136]

[RFC2535]

[RFC2931]

[RFC3258]

[RFC4033]

[RFC4035]

[RFC4880]

[RFC5155]

[RFC5936]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8484]

[RFC8499]

Eastlake 3rd, D. and C. Kaufman "Domain Name System Security Extensions"
,
RFC 2065 DOI 10.17487/RFC2065
, January 1997,
rfc2065>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

Vixie, P., Ed., Thomson, S., Rekhter, Y., and J. Bound "Dynamic Updates in the
Domain Name System (DNS UPDATE)" RFC 2136 DOI 10.17487/RFC2136
,
1997,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2136>

, April

,

,

.

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Domain Name System Security Extensions" RFC 2535 DOI
10.17487/RFC2535

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2535>

, March 1999,

.

,

,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "DNS Request and Transaction Signatures ( SIG(0)s )" RFC 2931
DOI 10.17487/RFC2931
rfc2931>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2000,

.

,

,

,

Hardie, T. "Distributing Authoritative Name Servers via Shared Unicast
,
,
Addresses" RFC 3258 DOI 10.17487/RFC3258
editor.org/info/rfc3258>

, April 2002,

<https://www.rfc-

.

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "DNS Security
,
Introduction and Requirements" RFC 4033 DOI 10.17487/RFC4033
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4033>

.

,

,

, March 2005,

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "Protocol
Modiﬁcations for the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4035 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4035

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4035>

, March 2005,

,
,

,

.

Callas, J., Donnerhacke, L., Finney, H., Shaw, D., and R. Thayer "OpenPGP
Message Format" RFC 4880 DOI 10.17487/RFC4880
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4880>

, November 2007,

,

,

.

,

<https://

Laurie, B., Sisson, G., Arends, R., and D. Blacka "DNS Security (DNSSEC) Hashed
,
Authenticated Denial of Existence" RFC 5155 DOI 10.17487/RFC5155
2008,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5155>

, March

.

,

,
Lewis, E. and A. Hoenes, Ed. "DNS Zone Transfer Protocol (AXFR)" RFC 5936
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5936>
DOI 10.17487/RFC5936

,
, June 2010,

,

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

,

.

,

, June

Hoﬀman, P. and P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI
10.17487/RFC8484

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

Hoﬀman, P., Sullivan, A., and K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC
,
8499 DOI 10.17487/RFC8499
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8499>

, January 2019,

.

,

,

,

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

[RFC8551]

[RFC8806]

[RFC8901]

[RFC8945]

Schaad, J., Ramsdell, B., and S. Turner "Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail
,
Extensions (S/MIME) Version 4.0 Message Speciﬁcation" RFC 8551 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8551

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8551>

, April 2019,

,

,

.

Kumari, W. and P. Hoﬀman "Running a Root Server Local to a Resolver" RFC
,
8806 DOI 10.17487/RFC8806
, June 2020,
,
rfc8806>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

.

Huque, S., Aras, P., Dickinson, J., Vcelak, J., and D. Blacka "Multi-Signer DNSSEC
Models" RFC 8901 DOI 10.17487/RFC8901
editor.org/info/rfc8901>

, September 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

.

Dupont, F., Morris, S., Vixie, P., Eastlake 3rd, D., Gudmundsson, O., and B.
Wellington "Secret Key Transaction Authentication for DNS (TSIG)" STD 93 RFC
8945 DOI 10.17487/RFC8945
,
rfc8945>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2020,

,

,

,

.

[ROOT-SERVERS]

Root Server Operators "root-servers.org"

,

, July 2018,

<https://www.root-

servers.org/>

.

[RPZ]

Wikipedia "Response policy zone"
index.php?title=Response_policy_zone&oldid=960043728>

, May 2020,

,

.

<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/

[ZONE-DIGEST-HACKATHON]

"Prototype implementation of ZONEMD for the IETF 102

,
hackathon" commit 76ad7a7
ZoneDigestHackathon>

.

, August 2019,

<https://github.com/shane-kerr/

[ZONE-DIGEST-TESTS]

IETF "RFC 8976 ZONEMD Test Cases"
trac.ietf.org/trac/dnsop/wiki/RFC8976ZONEMDTestCases>

, January 2021,

,

.

<https://

Appendix A.  Example Zones with Digests

This appendix contains example zones with accurate ZONEMD records. These can be used to
verify an implementation of the zone digest protocol. Additional and more extensive test cases
can be found via the ZONEMD Tests Wiki (
Working Group.

[ZONE-DIGEST-TESTS]

) maintained by the IETF DNSOP

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

A.1.  Simple EXAMPLE Zone

Here, the EXAMPLE zone contains an SOA record, NS and glue records, and a ZONEMD record.

example.      86400  IN  SOA     ns1 admin 2018031900 (
                                 1800 900 604800 86400 )
              86400  IN  NS      ns1
              86400  IN  NS      ns2
              86400  IN  ZONEMD  2018031900 1 1 (
                                 c68090d90a7aed71
                                 6bc459f9340e3d7c
                                 1370d4d24b7e2fc3
                                 a1ddc0b9a87153b9
                                 a9713b3c9ae5cc27
                                 777f98b8e730044c )
ns1           3600   IN  A       203.0.113.63
ns2           3600   IN  AAAA    2001:db8::63

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

A.2.  Complex EXAMPLE Zone

Here, the EXAMPLE zone contains duplicate RRs, an occluded RR, uppercase names, a wildcard, a
multi-record RRset, a non-apex ZONEMD RR, and one out-of-zone RR.

example.      86400  IN  SOA     ns1 admin 2018031900 (
                                 1800 900 604800 86400 )
              86400  IN  NS      ns1
              86400  IN  NS      ns2
              86400  IN  ZONEMD  2018031900 1 1 (
                                 a3b69bad980a3504
                                 e1cffcb0fd6397f9
                                 3848071c93151f55
                                 2ae2f6b1711d4bd2
                                 d8b39808226d7b9d
                                 b71e34b72077f8fe )
ns1           3600   IN  A       203.0.113.63
NS2           3600   IN  AAAA    2001:db8::63
occluded.sub  7200   IN  TXT     "I'm occluded but must be digested"
sub           7200   IN  NS      ns1
duplicate     300    IN  TXT     "I must be digested just once"
duplicate     300    IN  TXT     "I must be digested just once"
foo.test.     555    IN  TXT     "out-of-zone data must be excluded"
UPPERCASE     3600   IN  TXT     "canonicalize uppercase owner names"
*             777    IN  PTR     dont-forget-about-wildcards
mail          3600   IN  MX      20 MAIL1
mail          3600   IN  MX      10 Mail2.Example.
sortme        3600   IN  AAAA    2001:db8::5:61
sortme        3600   IN  AAAA    2001:db8::3:62
sortme        3600   IN  AAAA    2001:db8::4:63
sortme        3600   IN  AAAA    2001:db8::1:65
sortme        3600   IN  AAAA    2001:db8::2:64
non-apex      900    IN  ZONEMD  2018031900 1 1 (
                                 616c6c6f77656420
                                 6275742069676e6f
                                 7265642e20616c6c
                                 6f77656420627574
                                 2069676e6f726564
                                 2e20616c6c6f7765 )

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

A.3.  EXAMPLE Zone with Multiple Digests

Here, the EXAMPLE zone contains multiple ZONEMD records. It has both SHA384 and SHA512
digests using the SIMPLE scheme. It also includes ZONEMD records with Scheme and Hash
Algorithm values in the private range (240-254). These additional private-range digests are not
veriﬁable.

example.      86400  IN  SOA     ns1 admin 2018031900 (
                                 1800 900 604800 86400 )
example.      86400  IN  NS      ns1.example.
example.      86400  IN  NS      ns2.example.
example.      86400  IN  ZONEMD  2018031900 1 1 (
                                 62e6cf51b02e54b9
                                 b5f967d547ce4313
                                 6792901f9f88e637
                                 493daaf401c92c27
                                 9dd10f0edb1c56f8
                                 080211f8480ee306 )
example.      86400  IN  ZONEMD  2018031900 1 2 (
                                 08cfa1115c7b948c
                                 4163a901270395ea
                                 226a930cd2cbcf2f
                                 a9a5e6eb85f37c8a
                                 4e114d884e66f176
                                 eab121cb02db7d65
                                 2e0cc4827e7a3204
                                 f166b47e5613fd27 )
example.      86400  IN  ZONEMD  2018031900 1 240 (
                                 e2d523f654b9422a
                                 96c5a8f44607bbee )
example.      86400  IN  ZONEMD  2018031900 241 1 (
                                 e1846540e33a9e41
                                 89792d18d5d131f6
                                 05fc283e )
ns1.example.  3600   IN  A       203.0.113.63
ns2.example.  86400  IN  TXT     "This example has multiple digests"
NS2.EXAMPLE.  3600   IN  AAAA    2001:db8::63

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

A.4.  The URI.ARPA Zone

The following sample zone is the URI.ARPA zone retrieved 2021-01-21. Note this sample zone has
been re-signed with unpublished keys, so that the added ZONEMD RR also has a signature.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

uri.arpa.       3600    IN      SOA     sns.dns.icann.org. (
   noc.dns.icann.org. 2018100702 10800 3600 1209600 3600 )
uri.arpa.       3600    IN      RRSIG   SOA 8 2 3600 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    GzQw+QzwLDJr13REPGVmpEChjD1D2XlX0ie1DnWHpgaEw1E/dhs3lCN3+B
    mHd4Kx3tffTRgiyq65HxR6feQ5v7VmAifjyXUYB1DZur1eP5q0Ms2ygCB3
    byoeMgCNsFS1oKZ2LdzNBRpy3oace8xQn1SpmHGfyrsgg+WbHKCT1dY= )
uri.arpa.       86400   IN      NS      a.iana-servers.net.
uri.arpa.       86400   IN      NS      b.iana-servers.net.
uri.arpa.       86400   IN      NS      c.iana-servers.net.
uri.arpa.       86400   IN      NS      ns2.lacnic.net.
uri.arpa.       86400   IN      NS      sec3.apnic.net.
uri.arpa.       86400   IN      RRSIG   NS 8 2 86400 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    M+Iei2lcewWGaMtkPlrhM9FpUAHXFkCHTVpeyrjxjEONeNgKtHZor5e4V4
    qJBOzNqo8go/qJpWlFBm+T5Hn3asaBZVstFIYky38/C8UeRLPKq1hTTHAR
    YUlFrexr5fMtSUAVOgOQPSBfH3xBq/BgSccTdRb9clD+HE7djpqrLS4= )
uri.arpa.       600     IN      MX      10 pechora.icann.org.
uri.arpa.       600     IN      RRSIG   MX 8 2 600 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    kQAJQivmv6A5hqYBK8h6Z13ESY69gmosXwKI6WE09I8RFetfrxr24ecdnY
    d0lpnDtgNNSoHkYRSOoB+C4+zuJsoyAAzGo9uoWMWj97/2xeGhf3PTC9me
    Q9Ohi6hul9By7OR76XYmGhdWX8PBi60RUmZ1guslFBfQ8izwPqzuphs= )
uri.arpa.       3600    IN      DNSKEY  256 3 8 (
    AwEAAbMxuFuLeVDuOwIMzYOTD/bTREjLflo7wOi6ieIJhqltEzgjNzmWJf
    9kGwwDmzxU7kbthMEhBNBZNn84zmcyRSCMzuStWveL7xmqqUlE3swL8kLO
    vdZvc75XnmpHrk3ndTyEb6eZM7slh2C63Oh6K8VR5VkiZAkEGg0uZIT3Nj
    sF )
uri.arpa.       3600    IN      DNSKEY  257 3 8 (
    AwEAAdkTaWkZtZuRh7/OobBUFxM+ytTst+bCu0r9w+rEwXD7GbDs0pIMhM
    enrZzoAvmv1fQxw2MGs6Ri6yPKfNULcFOSt9l8i6BVBLI+SKTY6XXeDUQp
    SEmSaxohHeRPMQFzpysfjxINp/L2rGtZ7yPmxY/XRiFPSO0myqwGJa9r06
    Zw9CHM5UDHKWV/E+zxPFq/I7CfPbrrzbUotBX7Z6Vh3Sarllbe8cGUB2UF
    NaTRgwB0TwDBPRD5ER3w2Dzbry9NhbElTr7vVfhaGWeOGuqAUXwlXEg6Cr
    NkmJXJ2F1Rzr9WHUzhp7uWxhAbmJREGfi2dEyPAbUAyCjBqhFaqglknvc= )
uri.arpa.       3600    IN      DNSKEY  257 3 8 (
    AwEAAenQaBoFmDmvRT+/H5oNbm0Tr5FmNRNDEun0Jpj/ELkzeUrTWhNpQm
    ZeIMC8I0kZ185tEvOnRvn8OvV39B17QIdrvvKGIh2HlgeDRCLolhaojfn2
    QM0DStjF/WWHpxJOmE6CIuvhqYEU37yoJscGAPpPVPzNvnL1HhYTaao1VR
    YWQ/maMrJ+bfHg+YX1N6M/8MnRjIKBif1FWjbCKvsn6dnuGGL9oCWYUFJ3
    DwofXuhgPyZMkzPc88YkJj5EMvbMH4wtelbCwC+ivx732l0w/rXJn0ciQS
    OgoeVvDio8dIJmWQITWQAuP+q/ZHFEFHPlrP3gvQh5mcVS48eLX71Bq7c= )
uri.arpa.       3600    IN      RRSIG   DNSKEY 8 2 3600 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 12670 uri.arpa.
    DBE2gkKAoxJCfz47KKxzoImN/0AKArhIVHE7TyTwy0DdRPo44V5R+vL6th
    UxlQ1CJi2Rw0jwAXymx5Y3Q873pOEllH+4bJoIT4dmoBmPXfYWW7Clvw9U
    PKHRP0igKHmCVwIeBYDTU3gfLcMTbR4nEWPDN0GxlL1Mf7ITaC2Ioabo79
    Ip3M/MR8I3Vx/xZ4ZKKPHtLn3xUuJluPNanqJrED2gTslL2xWZ1tqjsAjJ
    v7JnJo2HJ8XVRB5zBto0IaJ2oBlqcjdcQ/0VlyoM8uOy1pDwHQ2BJl7322
    gNMHBP9HSiUPIOaIDNUCwW8eUcW6DIUk+s9u3GN1uTqwWzsYB/rA== )
uri.arpa.       3600    IN      RRSIG   DNSKEY 8 2 3600 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 30577 uri.arpa.
    Kx6HwP4UlkGc1UZ7SERXtQjPajOF4iUvkwDj7MEG1xbQFB1KoJiEb/eiW0
    qmSWdIhMDv8myhgauejRLyJxwxz8HDRV4xOeHWnRGfWBk4XGYwkejVzOHz
    oIArVdUVRbr2JKigcTOoyFN+uu52cNB7hRYu7dH5y1hlc6UbOnzRpMtGxc
    gVyKQ+/ARbIqGG3pegdEOvV49wTPWEiyY65P2urqhvnRg5ok/jzwAdMx4X
    Gshiib7Ojq0sRVl2ZIzj4rFgY/qsSO8SEXEhMo2VuSkoJNiofVzYoqpxEe

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

    GnANkIT7Tx2xJL1BWyJxyc7E8Wr2QSgCcc+rYL6IkHDtJGHy7TaQ== )
uri.arpa.       3600    IN      ZONEMD  2018100702 1 1 (
    0dbc3c4dbfd75777c12ca19c337854b1577799901307c482e9d91d5d15
    cd934d16319d98e30c4201cf25a1d5a0254960 )
uri.arpa.       3600    IN      RRSIG   ZONEMD 8 2 3600 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    QDo4XZcL3HMyn8aAHyCUsu/Tqj4Gkth8xY1EqByOb8XOTwVtA4ZNQORE1s
    iqNqjtJUbeJPtJSbLNqCL7rCq0CzNNnBscv6IIf4gnqJZjlGtHO30ohXtK
    vEc4z7SU3IASsi6bB3nLmEAyERdYSeU6UBfx8vatQDIRhkgEnnWUTh4= )
uri.arpa.       3600    IN      NSEC    ftp.uri.arpa. (
    NS SOA MX RRSIG NSEC DNSKEY ZONEMD )
uri.arpa.       3600    IN      RRSIG   NSEC 8 2 3600 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    dU/rXLM/naWd1+1PiWiYVaNJyCkiuyZJSccr91pJI673T8r3685B4ODMYF
    afZRboVgwnl3ZrXddY6xOhZL3n9V9nxXZwjLJ2HJUojFoKcXTlpnUyYUYv
    VQ2kj4GHAo6fcGCEp5QFJ2KbCpeJoS+PhKGRRx28icCiNT4/uXQvO2E= )
ftp.uri.arpa.   604800  IN      NAPTR   0 0 "" "" (
    "!^ftp://([^:/?#]*).*$!\\1!i" . )
ftp.uri.arpa.   604800  IN      RRSIG   NAPTR 8 3 604800 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    EygekDgl+Lyyq4NMSEpPyOrOywYf9Y3FAB4v1DT44J3R5QGidaH8l7ZFjH
    oYFI8sY64iYOCV4sBnX/dh6C1L5NgpY+8l5065Xu3vvjyzbtuJ2k6YYwJr
    rCbvl5DDn53zAhhO2hL9uLgyLraZGi9i7TFGd0sm3zNyUF/EVL0CcxU= )
ftp.uri.arpa.   3600    IN      NSEC    http.uri.arpa. (
    NAPTR RRSIG NSEC )
ftp.uri.arpa.   3600    IN      RRSIG   NSEC 8 3 3600 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    pbP4KxevPXCu/bDqcvXiuBppXyFEmtHyiy0eAN5gS7mi6mp9Z9bWFjx/Ld
    H9+6oFGYa5vGmJ5itu/4EDMe8iQeZbI8yrpM4TquB7RR/MGfBnTd8S+sjy
    QtlRYG7yqEu77Vd78Fme22BKPJ+MVqjS0JHMUE/YUGomPkAjLJJwwGw= )
http.uri.arpa.  604800  IN      NAPTR   0 0 "" "" (
    "!^http://([^:/?#]*).*$!\\1!i" . )
http.uri.arpa.  604800  IN      RRSIG   NAPTR 8 3 604800 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    eTqbWvt1GvTeXozuvm4ebaAfkXFQKrtdu0cEiExto80sHIiCbO0WL8UDa/
    J3cDivtQca7LgUbOb6c17NESsrsVkc6zNPx5RK2tG7ZQYmhYmtqtfg1oU5
    BRdHZ5TyqIXcHlw9Blo2pir1Y9IQgshhD7UOGkbkEmvB1Lrd0aHhAAg= )
http.uri.arpa.  3600    IN      NSEC    mailto.uri.arpa. (
    NAPTR RRSIG NSEC )
http.uri.arpa.  3600    IN      RRSIG   NSEC 8 3 3600 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    R9rlNzw1CVz2N08q6DhULzcsuUm0UKcPaGAWEU40tr81jEDHsFHNM+khCd
    OI8nDstzA42aee4rwCEgijxJpRCcY9hrO1Ysrrr2fdqNz60JikMdarvU5O
    0p0VXeaaJDfJQT44+o+YXaBwI7Qod3FTMx7aRib8i7istvPm1Rr7ixA= )
mailto.uri.arpa.        604800  IN      NAPTR   0 0 "" "" (
    "!^mailto:(.*)@(.*)$!\\2!i" . )
mailto.uri.arpa.        604800  IN      RRSIG   NAPTR 8 3 604800 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    Ch2zTG2F1plEvQPyIH4Yd80XXLjXOPvMbiqDjpJBcnCJsV8QF7kr0wTLnU
    T3dB+asQudOjPyzaHGwFlMzmrrAsszN4XAMJ6htDtFJdsgTMP/NkHhYRSm
    Vv6rLeAhd+mVfObY12M//b/GGVTjeUI/gJaLW0fLVZxr1Fp5U5CRjyw= )
mailto.uri.arpa.        3600    IN      NSEC    urn.uri.arpa. (
    NAPTR RRSIG NSEC )
mailto.uri.arpa.        3600    IN      RRSIG   NSEC 8 3 3600 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    fQUbSIE6E7JDi2rosah4SpCOTrKufeszFyj5YEavbQuYlQ5cNFvtm8KuE2
    xXMRgRI4RGvM2leVqcoDw5hS3m2pOJLxH8l2WE72YjYvWhvnwc5Rofe/8y
    B/vaSK9WCnqN8y2q6Vmy73AGP0fuiwmuBra7LlkOiqmyx3amSFizwms= )

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

urn.uri.arpa.   604800  IN      NAPTR   0 0 "" "" (
    "/urn:([^:]+)/\\1/i" . )
urn.uri.arpa.   604800  IN      RRSIG   NAPTR 8 3 604800 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    CVt2Tgz0e5ZmaSXqRfNys/8OtVCk9nfP0zhezhN8Bo6MDt6yyKZ2kEEWJP
    jkN7PCYHjO8fGjnUn0AHZI2qBNv7PKHcpR42VY03q927q85a65weOO1YE0
    vPYMzACpua9TOtfNnynM2Ws0uN9URxUyvYkXBdqOC81N3sx1dVELcwc= )
urn.uri.arpa.   3600    IN      NSEC    uri.arpa. NAPTR RRSIG NSEC
urn.uri.arpa.   3600    IN      RRSIG   NSEC 8 3 3600 (
    20210217232440 20210120232440 37444 uri.arpa.
    JuKkMiC3/j9iM3V8/izcouXWAVGnSZjkOgEgFPhutMqoylQNRcSkbEZQzF
    K8B/PIVdzZF0Y5xkO6zaKQjOzz6OkSaNPIo1a7Vyyl3wDY/uLCRRAHRJfp
    knuY7O+AUNXvVVIEYJqZggd4kl/Rjh1GTzPYZTRrVi5eQidI1LqCOeg= )

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

A.5.  The ROOT-SERVERS.NET Zone

The following sample zone is the ROOT-SERVERS.NET zone retrieved 2018-10-21.

root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  SOA     a.root-servers.net. (
    nstld.verisign-grs.com. 2018091100 14400 7200 1209600 3600000 )
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      a.root-servers.net.
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      b.root-servers.net.
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      c.root-servers.net.
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      d.root-servers.net.
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      e.root-servers.net.
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      f.root-servers.net.
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      g.root-servers.net.
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      h.root-servers.net.
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      i.root-servers.net.
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      j.root-servers.net.
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      k.root-servers.net.
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      l.root-servers.net.
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  NS      m.root-servers.net.
a.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:503:ba3e::2:30
a.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       198.41.0.4
b.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  MX      20 mail.isi.edu.
b.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:500:200::b
b.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       199.9.14.201
c.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:500:2::c
c.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       192.33.4.12
d.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:500:2d::d
d.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       199.7.91.13
e.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:500:a8::e
e.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       192.203.230.10
f.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:500:2f::f
f.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       192.5.5.241
g.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:500:12::d0d
g.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       192.112.36.4
h.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:500:1::53
h.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       198.97.190.53
i.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  MX      10 mx.i.root-servers.org.
i.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:7fe::53
i.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       192.36.148.17
j.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:503:c27::2:30
j.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       192.58.128.30
k.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:7fd::1
k.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       193.0.14.129
l.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:500:9f::42
l.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       199.7.83.42
m.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  AAAA    2001:dc3::35
m.root-servers.net.   3600000 IN  A       202.12.27.33
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  SOA     a.root-servers.net. (
    nstld.verisign-grs.com. 2018091100 14400 7200 1209600 3600000 )
root-servers.net.     3600000 IN  ZONEMD  2018091100 1 1 (
    f1ca0ccd91bd5573d9f431c00ee0101b2545c97602be0a97
    8a3b11dbfc1c776d5b3e86ae3d973d6b5349ba7f04340f79 )

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

Appendix B.  Implementation Status

This section records the status of known implementations of the protocol deﬁned by this
speciﬁcation at the time of publication, and is inspired by the concepts described in RFC 7942.

Please note that the listing of any individual implementation here does not imply endorsement
by the IETF. Furthermore, no eﬀort has been spent to verify the information presented here that
was supplied by IETF contributors. This is not intended as, and must not be construed to be, a
catalog of available implementations or their features. Readers are advised to note that other
implementations may exist.

B.1.  Authors' Implementation

The authors have an open-source implementation in C, using the ldns library (
DIGEST]

). This implementation is able to perform the following functions:

[LDNS-ZONE-

•

Read an input zone and output a zone with the ZONEMD placeholder.

•

Compute the zone digest over the signed zone and update the ZONEMD record.

•

Recompute DNSSEC signatures over the ZONEMD record.

•

Verify the zone digest from an input zone.

This implementation does not:

•

Perform DNSSEC validation of the ZONEMD record during veriﬁcation.

B.2.  Shane Kerr's Implementation

Shane Kerr
DIGEST-HACKATHON]
functions:

 wrote an implementation of this speciﬁcation during the IETF 102 hackathon (

[ZONE-

). This implementation is in Python and is able to perform the following

•

Read an input zone and output a zone with ZONEMD record.

•

Verify the zone digest from an input zone.

•

Output the ZONEMD record in its deﬁned presentation format.

This implementation does not:

•

Recompute DNSSEC signatures over the ZONEMD record.

•

Perform DNSSEC validation of the ZONEMD record.

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

B.3.  NIC Chile Lab's Implementation

[DNS-
), which besides digesting, can also sign and verify zones. This implementation is in Go

NIC Chile Labs wrote an implementation of this speciﬁcation as part of "dns-tools" suite (
TOOLS]
and is able to perform the following functions:

•

Compute zone digest over signed zone and update the ZONEMD record.

•

Verify the zone digest from an input zone.

•

Perform DNSSEC validation of the ZONEMD record during veriﬁcation.

•

Recompute DNSSEC signatures over the ZONEMD record.

Acknowledgments

,

,

David Blacka Scott Hollenbeck

The authors wish to thank
Joe Abley Mark Andrews
feedback on early drafts of this document. Additionally, they thank
,
Ralph Dolmans Donald Eastlake 3rd Richard Gibson Olafur Gudmundsson Bob Harold Paul
Hoﬀman Evan Hunt Shumon Huque Tatuya Jinmei Mike St. Johns Burt Kaliski Shane Kerr
,
Matt Larson Barry Leiba John Levine Ed Lewis Matt Pounsett Mukund Sivaraman Petr
Spacek Ondrej Sury Willem Toorop Florian Weimer Tim Wicinski Wouter Wijngaards Paul
,
,
Wouters

, and other members of the DNSOP Working Group for their input.

 for providing
,

Rick Wilhelm

,
,
,

, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

The authors would again like to thank
this document.

Tim Wicinski

, who served as the Document Shepherd for

Authors' Addresses

,

Duane Wessels
Verisign
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
 +1 703 948-3200
Phone:
Email:
 dwessels@verisign.com
URI:

 https://verisign.com

,

Piet Barber
Verisign
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
 +1 703 948-3200
Phone:
Email:
 pbarber@verisign.com
URI:

 https://verisign.com

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8976

DNS Zone Digest

February 2021

Matt Weinberg
Amazon
Email:
URI:

 matweinb@amazon.com

 https://amazon.com

Warren Kumari
Google
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

 warren@kumari.net

,

Wes Hardaker
USC/ISI
P.O. Box 382
Davis CA 95617
,
United States of America
Email:

 ietf@hardakers.net

Wessels, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

