Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8831
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
R. Jesup
Mozilla

S. Loreto
Ericsson

M. Tüxen
Münster Univ. of Appl. Sciences

RFC 8831
WebRTC Data Channels

Abstract

The WebRTC framework speciﬁes protocol support for direct, interactive, rich communication
using audio, video, and data between two peers' web browsers. This document speciﬁes the non-
media data transport aspects of the WebRTC framework. It provides an architectural overview of
how the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) is used in the WebRTC context as a generic
transport service that allows web browsers to exchange generic data from peer to peer.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8831

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8831

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions

3.  Use Cases

3.1.  Use Cases for Unreliable Data Channels

3.2.  Use Cases for Reliable Data Channels

4.  Requirements

5.  SCTP over DTLS over UDP Considerations

6.  The Usage of SCTP for Data Channels

6.1.  SCTP Protocol Considerations

6.2.  SCTP Association Management

6.3.  SCTP Streams

6.4.  Data Channel Deﬁnition

6.5.  Opening a Data Channel

6.6.  Transferring User Data on a Data Channel

6.7.  Closing a Data Channel

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

In the WebRTC framework, communication between the parties consists of media (for example,
audio and video) and non-media data. Media is sent using the Secure Real-time Transport
Protocol (SRTP) and is not speciﬁed further here. Non-media data is handled by using the Stream

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8831

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)
[RFC4347]
version, DTLS 1.3, is deﬁned in

[TLS-DTLS13]

.

; the present latest version, DTLS 1.2, is deﬁned in

[RFC6347]

; and an upcoming

[RFC4960]

 encapsulated in DTLS. DTLS 1.0 is deﬁned in

+----------+
|   SCTP   |
+----------+
|   DTLS   |
+----------+
| ICE/UDP  |
+----------+

Figure 1: Basic Stack Diagram

The encapsulation of SCTP over DTLS (see
NAT traversal solution together with conﬁdentiality, source authentication, and integrity-
protected transfers. This data transport service operates in parallel to the SRTP media transports,
and all of them can eventually share a single UDP port number.

) over ICE/UDP (see

) provides a

[RFC8445]

[RFC8261]

[RFC4960]

 and the additional policies deﬁned in

 with the partial reliability extension (PR-SCTP) deﬁned in

SCTP, as speciﬁed in
[RFC3758]
with reliable, and the relevant partially reliable, delivery modes for user messages. Using the
reconﬁguration extension deﬁned in
 allows an increase in the number of streams
during the lifetime of an SCTP association and allows individual SCTP streams to be reset. Using
 allows the interleave of large messages to avoid monopolization and adds support for
[RFC8260]
prioritizing SCTP streams.

, provides multiple streams natively

[RFC6525]

[RFC7496]

The remainder of this document is organized as follows: Sections 3 and 4 provide use cases and
requirements for both unreliable and reliable peer-to-peer data channels; Section 5 discusses
SCTP over DTLS over UDP; and Section 6 speciﬁes how SCTP should be used by the WebRTC
protocol framework for transporting non-media data between web browsers.

2.  Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Use Cases

This section deﬁnes use cases speciﬁc to data channels. Please note that this section is
informational only.

3.1.  Use Cases for Unreliable Data Channels

U-C 1:

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8831

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

A real-time game where position and object state information are sent via one or more
unreliable data channels. Note that at any time, there may not be any SRTP media
channels or all SRTP media channels may be inactive, and there may also be reliable
data channels in use.

U-C 2:

Providing non-critical information to a user about the reason for a state update in a
video chat or conference, such as mute state.

3.2.  Use Cases for Reliable Data Channels

U-C 3:

U-C 4:

A real-time game where critical state information needs to be transferred, such as
control information. Such a game may have no SRTP media channels, or they may be
inactive at any given time or may only be added due to in-game actions.

Non-real-time ﬁle transfers between people chatting. Note that this may involve a large
number of ﬁles to transfer sequentially or in parallel, such as when sharing a folder of
images or a directory of ﬁles.

U-C 5:

Real-time text chat during an audio and/or video call with an individual or with multiple
people in a conference.

U-C 6:

Renegotiation of the conﬁguration of the PeerConnection.

U-C 7:

Proxy browsing, where a browser uses data channels of a PeerConnection to send and
receive HTTP/HTTPS requests and data, for example, to avoid local Internet ﬁltering or
monitoring.

4.  Requirements

This section lists the requirements for Peer-to-Peer (P2P) data channels between two browsers.
Please note that this section is informational only.

Req. 1:

Multiple simultaneous data channels must be supported. Note that there may be zero
or more SRTP media streams in parallel with the data channels in the same
PeerConnection, and the number and state (active/inactive) of these SRTP media
streams may change at any time.

Req. 2:

Both reliable and unreliable data channels must be supported.

Req. 3:

Req. 4:

Req. 5:

Data channels of a PeerConnection must be congestion controlled either individually,
as a class, or in conjunction with the SRTP media streams of the PeerConnection. This
ensures that data channels don't cause congestion problems for these SRTP media
streams, and that the WebRTC PeerConnection does not cause excessive problems
when run in parallel with TCP connections.

The application should be able to provide guidance as to the relative priority of each
data channel relative to each other and relative to the SRTP media streams. This will
interact with the congestion control algorithms.

Data channels must be secured, which allows for conﬁdentiality, integrity, and source
authentication. See

 for detailed information.

[RFC8827]

[RFC8826]

 and

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8831

Req. 6:

Req. 7:

Req. 8:

Req. 9:

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

Data channels must provide message fragmentation support such that IP-layer
fragmentation can be avoided no matter how large a message the JavaScript
application passes to be sent. It also must ensure that large data channel transfers
don't unduly delay traﬃc on other data channels.

The data channel transport protocol must not encode local IP addresses inside its
protocol ﬁelds; doing so reveals potentially private information and leads to failure if
the address is depended upon.

The data channel transport protocol should support unbounded-length "messages"
(i.e., a virtual socket stream) at the application layer for such things as image-ﬁle-
transfer; implementations might enforce a reasonable message size limit.

The data channel transport protocol should avoid IP fragmentation. It must support
Path MTU (PMTU) discovery and must not rely on ICMP or ICMPv6 being generated or
being passed back, especially for PMTU discovery.

Req. 10:

It must be possible to implement the protocol stack in the user application space.

5.  SCTP over DTLS over UDP Considerations

The important features of SCTP in the WebRTC context are the following:

•

Usage of TCP-friendly congestion control.

•

modiﬁable congestion control for integration with the SRTP media stream congestion
control.

•

Support of multiple unidirectional streams, each providing its own notion of ordered
message delivery.

•

Support of ordered and out-of-order message delivery.

•

Support of arbitrarily large user messages by providing fragmentation and reassembly.

•

Support of PMTU discovery.

•

Support of reliable or partially reliable message transport.

The WebRTC data channel mechanism does not support SCTP multihoming. The SCTP layer will
simply act as if it were running on a single-homed host, since that is the abstraction that the
DTLS layer (a connection-oriented, unreliable datagram service) exposes.

The encapsulation of SCTP over DTLS deﬁned in
authentication, and integrity-protected transfers. Using DTLS over UDP in combination with
Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)
IPv6-based networks. SCTP as speciﬁed in
extension deﬁned in
data between browsers:

 enables middlebox traversal in IPv4- and
 be used in combination with the

 and provides the following features for transporting non-media

[RFC8445]
[RFC4960] MUST

 provides conﬁdentiality, source

[RFC8261]

[RFC3758]

•

Support of multiple unidirectional streams.

•

Ordered and unordered delivery of user messages.

•

Reliable and partially reliable transport of user messages.

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8831

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

Each SCTP user message contains a Payload Protocol Identiﬁer (PPID) that is passed to SCTP by its
upper layer on the sending side and provided to its upper layer on the receiving side. The PPID
can be used to multiplex/demultiplex multiple upper layers over a single SCTP association. In the
WebRTC context, the PPID is used to distinguish between UTF-8 encoded user data, binary-
encoded user data, and the Data Channel Establishment Protocol (DCEP) deﬁned in
Please note that the PPID is not accessible via the JavaScript API.

.
[RFC8832]

The encapsulation of SCTP over DTLS, together with the SCTP features listed above, satisﬁes all
the requirements listed in Section 4.

The layering of protocols for WebRTC is shown in Figure 2.

              +------+------+------+
              | DCEP | UTF-8|Binary|
              |      | Data | Data |
              +------+------+------+
              |        SCTP        |
+----------------------------------+
| STUN | SRTP |        DTLS        |
+----------------------------------+
|                ICE               |
+----------------------------------+
| UDP1 | UDP2 | UDP3 | ...         |
+----------------------------------+

Figure 2: WebRTC Protocol Layers

This stack (especially in contrast to DTLS over SCTP
over UDP

) has been chosen for the following reasons:

[RFC6951]

[RFC6083]

 and in combination with SCTP

•

supports the transmission of arbitrarily large user messages;

•

shares the DTLS connection with the SRTP media channels of the PeerConnection; and

•

provides privacy for the SCTP control information.

Referring to the protocol stack shown in Figure 2:

•

the usage of DTLS 1.0 over UDP is speciﬁed in

[RFC4347]

;

•

the usage of DTLS 1.2 over UDP in speciﬁed in

[RFC6347]

;

•

the usage of DTLS 1.3 over UDP is speciﬁed in an upcoming document

[TLS-DTLS13]

; and

•

the usage of SCTP on top of DTLS is speciﬁed in

[RFC8261]

.

Please note that the demultiplexing Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN)
vs. DTLS is done as described in

 vs. SRTP
, and SCTP is the only payload of DTLS.

Section 5.1.2 of [RFC5764]

[RFC5389]

Since DTLS is typically implemented in user application space, the SCTP stack also needs to be a
user application space stack.

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8831

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

The ICE/UDP layer can handle IP address changes during a session without needing interaction
with the DTLS and SCTP layers. However, SCTP
happened. In this case, SCTP
initial state. In the case of window-based congestion control like the one speciﬁed in
this means setting the congestion window and slow-start threshold to its initial values.

 retest the Path MTU and reset the congestion state to the
,
[RFC4960]

 be notiﬁed when an address change has

SHOULD

SHOULD

Incoming ICMP or ICMPv6 messages can't be processed by the SCTP layer, since there is no way
 support performing Path MTU
to identify the corresponding association. Therefore, SCTP
 by using probing
discovery without relying on ICMP or ICMPv6 as speciﬁed in
messages speciﬁed in
bytes for IPv4 and 1280 bytes for IPv6.

. The initial Path MTU at the IP layer

 exceed 1200

SHOULD NOT

[RFC4820]

[RFC4821]

MUST

In general, the lower-layer interface of an SCTP implementation should be adapted to address the
diﬀerences between IPv4 and IPv6 (being connectionless) or DTLS (being connection oriented).

When the protocol stack shown in Figure 2 is used, DTLS protects the complete SCTP packet, so it
provides conﬁdentiality, integrity, and source authentication of the complete SCTP packet.

SCTP provides congestion control on a per-association basis. This means that all SCTP streams
within a single SCTP association share the same congestion window. Traﬃc not being sent over
SCTP is not covered by SCTP congestion control. Using a congestion control diﬀerent from the
standard one might improve the impact on the parallel SRTP media streams.

SCTP uses the same port number concept as TCP and UDP. Therefore, an SCTP association uses
two port numbers, one at each SCTP endpoint.

6.  The Usage of SCTP for Data Channels

6.1.  SCTP Protocol Considerations

The DTLS encapsulation of SCTP packets as described in

[RFC8261] MUST

 be used.

This SCTP stack and its upper layer
MUST
message can be sent ordered or unordered and with partial or full reliability.

 support the usage of multiple SCTP streams. A user

The following SCTP protocol extensions are required:

•

The stream reconﬁguration extension deﬁned in
closing channels.

[RFC6525] MUST

 be supported. It is used for

•

The dynamic address reconﬁguration extension deﬁned in
the support of the stream reset extension deﬁned in
are

OPTIONAL

.

[RFC5061] MUST

 be used to signal

[RFC6525]

. Other features of

[RFC5061]

•

The partial reliability extension deﬁned in
timed reliability PR-SCTP policy deﬁned in
deﬁned in
combined with unordered delivery, provides a UDP-like service where each user message is
sent exactly once and delivered in the order received.

 be supported. Limiting the number of retransmissions to zero,

[RFC3758] MUST
[RFC3758]

, the limited retransmission policy

 be supported. In addition to the

[RFC7496] MUST

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8831

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

The support for message interleaving as deﬁned in

[RFC8260] SHOULD

 be used.

6.2.  SCTP Association Management

In the WebRTC context, the SCTP association will be set up when the two endpoints of the
WebRTC PeerConnection agree on opening it, as negotiated by the JavaScript Session
Establishment Protocol (JSEP), which is typically an exchange of the Session Description Protocol
(SDP)
. It will use the DTLS connection selected via ICE, and typically this will be shared
via BUNDLE or equivalent with DTLS connections used to key the SRTP media streams.

[RFC8829]

The number of streams negotiated during SCTP association setup
maximum number of streams that can be negotiated during the association setup.

SHOULD

 be 65535, which is the

SCTP supports two ways of terminating an SCTP association. The ﬁrst method is a graceful one,
where a procedure that ensures no messages are lost during the shutdown of the association is
used. The second method is a non-graceful one, where one side can just abort the association.

Each SCTP endpoint continuously supervises the reachability of its peer by monitoring the
number of retransmissions of user messages and test messages. In case of excessive
retransmissions, the association is terminated in a non-graceful way.

If an SCTP association is closed in a graceful way, all of its data channels are closed. In case of a
non-graceful teardown, all data channels are also closed, but an error indication
provided if possible.

SHOULD

 be

6.3.  SCTP Streams

SCTP deﬁnes a stream as a unidirectional logical channel existing within an SCTP association to
another SCTP endpoint. The streams are used to provide the notion of in-sequence delivery and
for multiplexing. Each user message is sent on a particular stream, either ordered or unordered.
Ordering is preserved only for ordered messages sent on the same stream.

6.4.  Data Channel Deﬁnition

Data channels are deﬁned such that their accompanying application-level API can closely mirror
the API for WebSockets, which implies bidirectional streams of data and a textual ﬁeld called
'label' used to identify the meaning of the data channel.

The realization of a data channel is a pair of one incoming stream and one outgoing SCTP stream
having the same SCTP stream identiﬁer. How these SCTP stream identiﬁers are selected is
protocol and implementation dependent. This allows a bidirectional communication.

Additionally, each data channel has the following properties in each direction:

•

reliable or unreliable message transmission: In case of unreliable transmissions, the same
level of unreliability is used. Note that, in SCTP, this is a property of an SCTP user message
and not of an SCTP stream.

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8831

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

•

in-order or out-of-order message delivery for message sent: Note that, in SCTP, this is a
property of an SCTP user message and not of an SCTP stream.

•

a priority, which is a 2-byte unsigned integer: These priorities
weighted-fair-queuing scheduling priorities per the deﬁnition of the corresponding stream
[RFC8260]
scheduler supporting interleaving in
be one of 128 ("below normal"), 256 ("normal"), 512 ("high"), or 1024 ("extra high").

. For use in WebRTC, the values used

 be interpreted as

MUST

SHOULD

•

an optional label.

•

an optional protocol.

Note that for a data channel being negotiated with the protocol speciﬁed in
above properties are the same in both directions.

[RFC8832]

, all of the

6.5.  Opening a Data Channel

Data channels can be opened by using negotiation within the SCTP association (called in-band
negotiation) or out-of-band negotiation. Out-of-band negotiation is deﬁned as any method that
results in an agreement as to the parameters of a channel and the creation thereof. The details
are out of scope of this document. Applications using data channels need to use the negotiation
methods consistently on both endpoints.

A simple protocol for in-band negotiation is speciﬁed in

[RFC8832]
.

When one side wants to open a channel using out-of-band negotiation, it picks a stream. Unless
otherwise deﬁned or negotiated, the streams are picked based on the DTLS role (the client picks
even stream identiﬁers, and the server picks odd stream identiﬁers). However, the application is
responsible for avoiding collisions with existing streams. If it attempts to reuse a stream that is
part of an existing data channel, the addition
MUST
application
MUST
selected stream to be used, as well as the options for sending data from that side.

 also determine the options to be used for sending messages. The application
 ensure in an application-speciﬁc manner that the application at the peer will also know the

 fail. In addition to choosing a stream, the

SHOULD

6.6.  Transferring User Data on a Data Channel

All data sent on a data channel in both directions
 be sent over the underlying stream using
the reliability deﬁned when the data channel was opened, unless the options are changed or per-
message options are speciﬁed by a higher level.

MUST

The message orientation of SCTP is used to preserve the message boundaries of user messages.
Therefore, senders
Unless the deprecated PPID-based fragmentation and reassembly is used, the sender
include exactly one application message in each SCTP user message.

 put more than one application message into an SCTP user message.

MUST NOT

MUST

The SCTP Payload Protocol Identiﬁers (PPIDs) are used to signal the interpretation of the
"payload data". The following PPIDs

 be used (see Section 8):

MUST

WebRTC String:

to identify a non-empty JavaScript string encoded in UTF-8.

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8831

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

WebRTC String Empty:

to identify an empty JavaScript string encoded in UTF-8.

WebRTC Binary:
or Blob).

to identify non-empty JavaScript binary data (ArrayBuﬀer, ArrayBuﬀerView,

WebRTC Binary Empty:

to identify empty JavaScript binary data (ArrayBuﬀer,

ArrayBuﬀerView, or Blob).

SCTP does not support the sending of empty user messages. Therefore, if an empty message has
to be sent, the appropriate PPID (WebRTC String Empty or WebRTC Binary Empty) is used, and
the SCTP user message of one zero byte is sent. When receiving an SCTP user message with one
of these PPIDs, the receiver
message.

 ignore the SCTP user message and process it as an empty

MUST

The usage of the PPIDs "WebRTC String Partial" and "WebRTC Binary Partial" is deprecated. They
were used for a PPID-based fragmentation and reassembly of user messages belonging to reliable
and ordered data channels.

If a message with an unsupported PPID is received or some error condition related to the
received message is detected by the receiver (for example, illegal ordering), the receiver
SHOULD
close the corresponding data channel. This implies in particular that extensions using additional
PPIDs can't be used without prior negotiation.

The SCTP base protocol speciﬁed in
messages. Therefore, sending a large user message can monopolize the SCTP association. To
overcome this limitation,
SHOULD
maximum message size to 16 KB to avoid monopolization.

 be used. As long as message interleaving is not supported, the sender

 does not support the interleaving of user

 deﬁnes an extension to support message interleaving, which

[RFC8260]

[RFC4960]

 limit the

SHOULD

It is recommended that the message size be kept within certain size bounds, as applications will
not be able to support arbitrarily large single messages. This limit has to be negotiated, for
example, by using

[RFC8841]

.

The sender

SHOULD

 disable the Nagle algorithm (see

[RFC1122]

) to minimize the latency.

6.7.  Closing a Data Channel

MUST

 be signaled by resetting the corresponding outgoing streams

Closing of a data channel
[RFC6525]
. This means that if one side decides to close the data channel, it resets the
corresponding outgoing stream. When the peer sees that an incoming stream was reset, it also
resets its corresponding outgoing stream. Once this is completed, the data channel is closed.
Resetting a stream sets the Stream Sequence Numbers (SSNs) of the stream back to 'zero' with a
corresponding notiﬁcation to the application layer that the reset has been performed. Streams
are available for reuse after a reset has been performed.

[RFC6525]
is reset.

 also guarantees that all the messages are delivered (or abandoned) before the stream

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8831

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

7.  Security Considerations

This document does not add any additional considerations to the ones given in
[RFC8827]
.

[RFC8826]

 and

It should be noted that a receiver must be prepared for a sender that tries to send arbitrarily
large messages.

8.  IANA Considerations

This document uses six already registered SCTP Payload Protocol Identiﬁers (PPIDs): "DOMString
Last", "Binary Data Partial", "Binary Data Last", "DOMString Partial", "WebRTC String Empty", and
"WebRTC Binary Empty".
 creates the "SCTP Payload Protocol Identiﬁers" registry from
which these identiﬁers were assigned. IANA has updated the reference of these six assignments
to point to this document and changed the names of the ﬁrst four PPIDs. The corresponding dates
remain unchanged.

[RFC4960]

The six assignments have been updated to read:

Value

SCTP PPID Reference Date

WebRTC String

51

RFC 8831

2013-09-20

WebRTC Binary Partial (deprecated)

52

RFC 8831

2013-09-20

WebRTC Binary

WebRTC String Partial (deprecated)

WebRTC String Empty

WebRTC Binary Empty

Table 1

53

54

56

57

RFC 8831

2013-09-20

RFC 8831

2013-09-20

RFC 8831

2014-08-22

RFC 8831

2014-08-22

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3758]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Stewart, R., Ramalho, M., Xie, Q., Tuexen, M., and P. Conrad "Stream Control
Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Partial Reliability Extension" RFC 3758 DOI
10.17487/RFC3758

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3758>

, May 2004,

,
,

.

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8831

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

[RFC4820]

[RFC4821]

[RFC4960]

[RFC5061]

[RFC6525]

[RFC7496]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8260]

[RFC8261]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8826]

[RFC8827]

[RFC8829]

Tuexen, M., Stewart, R., and P. Lei "Padding Chunk and Parameter for the
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)" RFC 4820 DOI 10.17487/RFC4820
March 2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4820>

,

,

,

.

,

Mathis, M. and J. Heﬀner "Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery" RFC 4821
DOI 10.17487/RFC4821
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4821>

, March 2007,

,

,

,

Stewart, R., Ed. "Stream Control Transmission Protocol" RFC 4960 DOI
10.17487/RFC4960

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4960>

, September 2007,

,

,

.

Stewart, R., Xie, Q., Tuexen, M., Maruyama, S., and M. Kozuka "Stream Control
Transmission Protocol (SCTP) Dynamic Address Reconﬁguration" RFC 5061 DOI
10.17487/RFC5061

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5061>

, September 2007,

,

,

,

.

Stewart, R., Tuexen, M., and P. Lei "Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)
Stream Reconﬁguration" RFC 6525 DOI 10.17487/RFC6525
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6525>

, February 2012,

,

,

.

,

Tuexen, M., Seggelmann, R., Stewart, R., and S. Loreto "Additional Policies for
the Partially Reliable Stream Control Transmission Protocol Extension" RFC
,
7496 DOI 10.17487/RFC7496
rfc7496>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, April 2015,

.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Stewart, R., Tuexen, M., Loreto, S., and R. Seggelmann "Stream Schedulers and
User Message Interleaving for the Stream Control Transmission Protocol" RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
8260 DOI 10.17487/RFC8260
rfc8260>

, November 2017,

,

.

,

Tuexen, M., Stewart, R., Jesup, R., and S. Loreto "Datagram Transport Layer
Security (DTLS) Encapsulation of SCTP Packets" RFC 8261 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8261

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8261>

, November 2017,

,

.

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

Rescorla, E. "Security Considerations for WebRTC" RFC 8826 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8826

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8826>

, January 2021,

.

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "WebRTC Security Architecture" RFC 8827 DOI 10.17487/RFC8827
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8827>

,

,

,

Uberti, J., Jennings, C., and E. Rescorla, Ed. "JavaScript Session Establishment
,
Protocol (JSEP)" RFC 8829 DOI 10.17487/RFC8829
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8829>

, January 2021,

<https://

,

.

,

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8831

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

[RFC8832]

[RFC8841]

Jesup, R., Loreto, S., and M. Tüxen "WebRTC Data Channel Establishment
Protocol" RFC 8832 DOI 10.17487/RFC8832
editor.org/info/rfc8832>

, January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

.

Holmberg, C., Shpount, R., Loreto, S., and G. Camarillo "Session Description
Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer Procedures for Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP) over Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Transport" RFC
8841 DOI 10.17487/RFC8841
,
rfc8841>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2021,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC1122]

[RFC4347]

[RFC5389]

[RFC5764]

[RFC6083]

[RFC6347]

[RFC6951]

[TLS-DTLS13]

,

Braden, R., Ed. "Requirements for Internet Hosts - Communication Layers" STD
,
3 RFC 1122 DOI 10.17487/RFC1122
info/rfc1122>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, October 1989,

.

,

,

Rescorla, E. and N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security" RFC 4347
DOI 10.17487/RFC4347

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4347>

, April 2006,

.

,

,

,

Rosenberg, J., Mahy, R., Matthews, P., and D. Wing "Session Traversal Utilities for
,
NAT (STUN)" RFC 5389 DOI 10.17487/RFC5389
.
editor.org/info/rfc5389>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2008,

,

,

McGrew, D. and E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)"
RFC 5764 DOI 10.17487/RFC5764
rfc5764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2010,

,
.

,

,

Tuexen, M., Seggelmann, R., and E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer
Security (DTLS) for Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)" RFC 6083
DOI 10.17487/RFC6083

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6083>

, January 2011,

,

,

,

.

,
Rescorla, E. and N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
, January 2012,
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc6347>

,
.

,

Tuexen, M. and R. Stewart "UDP Encapsulation of Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP) Packets for End-Host to End-Host Communication" RFC 6951
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6951

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6951>

, May 2013,

,

,

,

Rescorla, E., Tschofenig, H., and N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
ietf-tls-dtls13-39
dtls13-39>

,
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-tls-

, 2 November 2020,

,

.

,

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8831

WebRTC Data Channels

January 2021

Acknowledgements

Many thanks for comments, ideas, and text from
Bergkvist Alissa Cooper Benoit Claise Spencer Dawkins Gunnar Hellström Christer Holmberg
,
Cullen Jennings Paul Kyzivat Eric Rescorla Adam Roach Irene Rüngeler Randall Stewart
,
Martin Stiemerling Justin Uberti

,
,
Magnus Westerlund

Harald Alvestrand Richard Barnes Adam

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Authors' Addresses

Randell Jesup
Mozilla
United States of America
Email:

 randell-ietf@jesup.org

Salvatore Loreto
Ericsson
Hirsalantie 11
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 salvatore.loreto@ericsson.com

Michael Tüxen
Münster University of Applied Sciences
Stegerwaldstrasse 39
48565 Steinfurt
Germany
Email:

 tuexen@fh-muenster.de

Jesup, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

