Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8946
8224
Standards Track
February 2021
2070-1721
J. Peterson
Neustar

RFC 8946
Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT) Extension for
Diverted Calls

Abstract

The Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT) is speciﬁed in RFC 8225 to convey cryptographically
signed information about the people involved in personal communications. This document
extends PASSporT to include an indication that a call has been diverted from its original
destination to a new one. This information can greatly improve the decisions made by
veriﬁcation services in call forwarding scenarios. Also speciﬁed here is an encapsulation
mechanism for nesting a PASSporT within another PASSporT that assists relying parties in some
diversion scenarios.

This document updates RFC 8224.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8946

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  The "div" PASSporT Type and Claim

4.  Using "div" in SIP

4.1.  Authentication Service Behavior

4.2.  Veriﬁcation Service Behavior

5.  The "div-o" PASSporT Type

5.1.  Processing "div-o" PASSporTs

6.  Deﬁnition of "opt"

7.  "div" and Redirection

8.  Extending "div" to Work with Service Logic Tracking

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  JSON Web Token Claims Registrations

9.1.1.  "div" registration

9.1.2.  "opt" registration

9.2.  PASSporT Type Registrations

10. Privacy Considerations

11. Security Considerations

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Keys for Examples

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

1.  Introduction

[RFC8225]

[RFC7519]

 for conveying cryptographically signed information about the people

A Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT)
Token (JWT)
involved in personal communications; it is used by the Secure Telephone Identity Revisited
(STIR) protocol
 to convey a signed assertion of the identity of the participants in real-
time communications established via a protocol like SIP. This speciﬁcation extends PASSporT to
include an indication that a call has been diverted from its original destination to a new one.

 is a token format based on the JSON Web

[RFC8224]

STIR problem statement [RFC7340]

 is focused on preventing the impersonation of

Although the
the caller's identity, which is a common enabler for threats such as robocalling and voicemail
hacking on the telephone network today, it also provides a signature over the called number at
the time that the authentication service sees it. As
protection over the contents of the To header ﬁeld is intended to prevent a class of cut-and-paste
attacks. If Alice calls Bob, for example, Bob might attempt to cut and paste the Identity header
ﬁeld in Alice's INVITE into a new INVITE that Bob sends to Carol, and thus be able to fool Carol
into thinking the call came from Alice and not Bob. With the signature over the To header ﬁeld
value, the INVITE Carol sees will clearly have been destined originally for Bob, and thus Carol
can view the INVITE as suspect.

[RFC8224], Section 12.1

 describes, this

[RFC8224], Section 12.1.1

 points out, it is diﬃcult for Carol to conﬁrm or reject these

However, as
suspicions based on the information she receives from the baseline PASSporT object. The
common "call forwarding" service serves as a good example of the reality that the original called
party number is not always the number to which a call is delivered. There are a number of
potential ways for intermediaries to indicate that such a forwarding operating has taken place.
The address in the To header ﬁeld value of SIP requests is not supposed to change, according to
baseline SIP behavior
when a call is retargeted. Practically speaking, however, many operational environments do alter
 was created to store the Request-
the To header ﬁeld. The
URIs that are discarded by a call in transit. The
, though
historic, is still used for this purpose by some operators today. Neither of these header ﬁelds
provide any cryptographic assurance of secure redirection, and they both record entries for
minor syntactical changes in URIs that do not reﬂect a change to the actual target of a call.

; instead, it is the Request-URI that is supposed to be updated

SIP Diversion header ﬁeld [RFC5806]

History-Info header ﬁeld [RFC7044]

[RFC3261]

Therefore, this speciﬁcation extends PASSporT with an explicit indication that the original called
number in PASSporT no longer reﬂects the destination to which a call is intended to be delivered.
For this purpose, it speciﬁes a Divert PASSporT type ("div") for use in common SIP retargeting
cases; it is expected that in this case, SIP INVITE requests will carry multiple Identity header
ﬁelds, each containing its own PASSporT. Throughout this document, PASSporTs that contain a
"div" element will be referred to as "div" PASSporTs. Veriﬁcation services and the relying parties
who make authorization decisions about communications may use this diversion indication to
conﬁrm that a legitimate retargeting of the call has taken place, rather than a cut-and-paste
attack. For

 and other non-SIP applications of PASSporT, a

out-of-band use cases [RFC8816]

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

separate "div-o" PASSporT type is also speciﬁed, which deﬁnes an "opt" PASSporT element for
carrying nested PASSporTs within a PASSporT. These shall in turn be referred to in this document
as "div-o" PASSporTs.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  The "div" PASSporT Type and Claim

PASSporT [RFC8225]
This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a
authentication services located at retargeting entities. All "div" PASSporTs
JSON Web Token "div" claim, also speciﬁed in this document, which indicates a previous
destination for a call during its routing process. When a retargeting entity receives a call signed
with a PASSporT, it may act as an authentication service and create a new PASSporT containing
the "div" claim to attach to the call.

 type called "div", which may be employed by

 contain a new

MUST

Note that a new PASSporT is only necessary when the canonical form of the "dest" identiﬁer (per
the canonicalization procedures in
) changes due to this retargeting. If the
[RFC8224], Section 8.3
canonical form of the "dest" identiﬁer is not changed during retargeting, then a new PASSporT
with a "div" claim

 be produced.

MUST NOT

The headers of the new PASSporTs generated by retargeting entities
PASSporT type and an "x5u" ﬁeld pointing to a credential that the retargeting entity controls.
"div" PASSporTs
as follows:

 use full form instead of compact form. The new PASSporT header will look

 include the "div"

MUST

MUST

{ "typ":"passport",
  "ppt":"div",
  "alg":"ES256",
  "x5u":"https://www.example.com/cert.cer" }

A "div" PASSporT claims set is populated with elements drawn from the PASSporT(s) received for
a call by the retargeting entity; at a high level, the original identiﬁer for the called party in the
"dest" object will become the "div" claim in the new PASSporT. If the "dest" object of the original
PASSporT contains multiple identiﬁers, because it contains one or more name/value pairs with
 select only one identiﬁer from the value(s) of
an array as its value, the retargeting entity
the "dest" object to occupy the value of the "div" ﬁeld in the new PASSporT. Moreover, it
MUST
select an identiﬁer that is within the scope of the credential that the retargeting entity will
specify in the "x5u" of the PASSporT header (as described below).

MUST

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

The new target for the call selected by the retargeting entity becomes the value of the "dest"
 be copied into the new PASSporT from the
object of the new PASSporT. The "orig" object
original PASSporT received by the retargeting entity. The retargeting entity
 retain the
"iat" object from the original PASSporT, though if in the underlying signaling protocol (e.g., SIP)
the retargeting entity changes the date and time information in the retargeted request, the new
PASSporT should instead reﬂect that date and time. No other claims or extensions are to be
copied from the original PASSporT to the "div" PASSporT.

SHOULD

MUST

So, for an original PASSporT claims set of the form:

   { "dest":{"tn":["12155551213"]},
     "iat":1443208345,
     "orig":{"tn":"12155551212"} }

If the retargeting entity is changing the target from 12155551213 to 12155551214, the claims set
of a "div" PASSporT generated by the retargeting entity would look as follows:

   { "dest":{"tn":["12155551214"]},
     "div":{"tn":"121555551213"},
     "iat":1443208345,
     "orig":{"tn":"12155551212"} }

The combined full form PASSporT (with a signature covered by the ES256 keys given in Appendix
A) would look as follows:

eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsInBwdCI6ImRpdiIsInR5cCI6InBhc3Nwb3J0IiwieDV1Ij \
oiaHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20vY2VydC5jZXIifQ.eyJkZXN0Ijp7InRuI \
jpbIjEyMTU1NTUxMjE0Il19LCJkaXYiOnsidG4iOiIxMjE1NTU1NTEyMTMifSwiaWF \
0IjoxNDQzMjA4MzQ1LCJvcmlnIjp7InRuIjoiMTIxNTU1NTEyMTIifX0.xBHWipDEE \
J8a6TsdX6xUXAnblsFiGUiAxwLiv0HLC9IICj6eG9jQd6WzeSSjHRBwxmChHhVIiMT \
SqIlk3yCNkg

The same "div" PASSporT would result if the "dest" object of the original PASSporT contained an
array value, such as {"tn":["12155551213","19995551234"]}, and the retargeting entity chose to
retarget from the ﬁrst telephone number in the array. Every "div" PASSporT is diverting from
only one identiﬁer.

Note that the "div" element may contain other name/value pairs than just a destination, including
a History-Info indicator (see Section 8). After the PASSporT header and claims have been
constructed, their signature is generated per the guidance in
credential required to sign it. While in the ordinary construction of a PASSporT, the credential
used to sign will have authority over the identity in the "orig" claim (for example, a certiﬁcate
with authority over the telephone number in "orig" per
"div" type the signature

[RFC8226]
 be created with a credential with authority over the identity

), for all PASSporTs using the

 -- except for the

[RFC8225]

MUST

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

present in the "div" claim. So for the example above, where the original "dest" is "12155551213",
the signer of the new PASSporT object
MUST
need not have any authority over the telephone number present in the "orig" claim.

 have authority over that telephone number and

Note that Identity header ﬁelds are not ordered in a SIP request, and in a case where there is a
multiplicity of Identity header ﬁelds in a request, some sorting may be required to match "div"
PASSporTs to their originals.

PASSporTs of type "div"

MUST NOT

 contain an "opt" (see Section 6) element in their payload.

4.  Using "div" in SIP

This section speciﬁes SIP-speciﬁc usage for the "div" PASSporT type and its handling in the SIP
Identity header ﬁeld "ppt" parameter value. Other protocols using PASSporT may deﬁne
behavior speciﬁc to their use of the "div" claim.

4.1.  Authentication Service Behavior

An authentication service only adds an Identity header ﬁeld value containing the "div" PASSporT
type to a SIP request that already contains at least one Identity header ﬁeld value; it
add a "div" PASSporT to an INVITE that contains no Identity header ﬁeld. The retargeting entity
 act as a veriﬁcation service and validate the existing Identity header ﬁeld value(s) in the
SHOULD
request before proceeding; in some high-volume environments, it may instead put that burden of
validating the chain entirely on the terminating veriﬁcation service. As the authentication
service will be adding a new PASSporT that refers to an original, it
request's Identity header ﬁeld value before forwarding.

 remove the original

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

As was stated in Section 3, the authentication service
credential that has a scope of authority covering the identity it populates in the "div" element
value. Note that this is a signiﬁcant departure from baseline STIR authentication service
behavior, in which the PASSporT is signed by a credential with authority over the "orig" ﬁeld.
The "div" value reﬂects the URI that caused the call to be routed to the retargeting entity, so in
ordinary operations, it would already be the STIR entity holding the appropriate private keying
material for calls originating from that identity.

 sign any "div" PASSporT with a

MUST

A SIP authentication service typically will derive the "dest" element value of a "div" PASSporT
from a new Request-URI that is set for the SIP request before it is forwarded. Older values of the
Request-URI may appear in header ﬁelds like Diversion or History-Info; this document speciﬁes
an optional interaction with History-Info below in Section 8. Note as well that because PASSporT
operates on canonicalized telephone numbers and normalized URIs, many smaller changes to
the syntax of identiﬁers that might be captured by other mechanisms that record retargeting
(like History-Info) will likely not require a "div" PASSporT.

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

When adding an Identity header ﬁeld with a PASSporT claims set containing a "div" claim, SIP
authentication services
"div". For the example PASSporT given in Section 3, the new Identity header added after
retargeting might look as follows:

 also add a "ppt" parameter to that Identity header with a value of

MUST

Identity:eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsInBwdCI6ImRpdiIsInR5cCI6InBhc3Nwb3J0I \
iwieDV1IjoiaHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20vY2VydC5jZXIifQ.eyJkZXN0 \
Ijp7InRuIjpbIjEyMTU1NTUxMjE0Il19LCJkaXYiOnsidG4iOiIxMjE1NTU1NTEyMT \
MifSwiaWF0IjoxNDQzMjA4MzQ1LCJvcmlnIjp7InRuIjoiMTIxNTU1NTEyMTIifX0. \
xBHWipDEEJ8a6TsdX6xUXAnblsFiGUiAxwLiv0HLC9IICj6eG9jQd6WzeSSjHRBwxm \
ChHhVIiMTSqIlk3yCNkg; \
info=<https://www.example.com/cert.cer>;ppt="div"

 PASSporT and a PASSporT of type

Note that in some deployments, an authentication service will need to generate "div" PASSporTs
for a request that contains multiple non-"div" Identity header ﬁeld values. For example, a request
arriving at a retargeting entity might contain, in diﬀerent Identity header ﬁelds, a baseline
 signed by a separate authority.
[RFC8224]
Provided that these PASSporTs share the same "orig" and "dest" values, the retargeting entity's
authentication service
PASSporTs diﬀer, however, one "div" PASSporT
PASSporT. Note that this eﬀectively creates multiple chains of "div" PASSporTs in a single request,
which complicates the procedures that need to be performed at veriﬁcation services.

 generate only one "div" PASSporT. If the "orig" or "dest" of these

 be generated for each non-"div"

"rph" [RFC8443]

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

 generate one "div" PASSporT for each previous "div" PASSporT in the

Furthermore, a request may also be retargeted a second time, at which point the subsequent
retargeting entity
request that contains a "dest" object with the value of the current target -- but not for "div"
PASSporTs with earlier targets. Ordinarily, the current target will be readily identiﬁable, as it will
be in the last "div" PASSporT in each chain, and in SIP cases, it will correspond to the Request-URI
received by the retargeting entity. Moreover, the current target will be an identiﬁer that the
retargeting entity possesses a credential to sign for, which may not be true for earlier targets.
Ultimately, on each retargeting, the number of PASSporTs added to a request will be equal to the
number of non-"div" PASSporTs that do not share the same "orig" and "dest" object values.

4.2.  Veriﬁcation Service Behavior

, Step 5 requires that speciﬁcations deﬁning "ppt" values describe any

[RFC8224], Section 6.2
additional or alternative veriﬁer behavior. The job of a SIP veriﬁcation service handling one or
more "div" PASSporTs is very diﬀerent from that of a traditional veriﬁcation service. At a high
level, the immediate responsibility of the veriﬁcation service is to extract all PASSporTs from the
two or more Identity header ﬁelds in a request, identify which are "div" PASSporTs and which
are not, and then order and link the "div" PASSporTs to the original PASSporT(s) in order to build
one or more chains of retargeting.

In order to validate a SIP request using the "div" PASSporT type, a veriﬁcation service needs to
inspect all of the valid Identity header ﬁeld values associated with a request, as an Identity
header ﬁeld value containing "div" necessarily refers to an earlier PASSporT already in the
message. For each "div" PASSporT, the veriﬁcation service

 ﬁnd an earlier PASSporT that

MUST

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

contains a "dest" claim with a value equivalent to the "div" claim in each "div" PASSporT. It is
possible that this earlier PASSporT will also contain a "div" and that it will in turn chain to a still
earlier PASSporT stored in a diﬀerent Identity header ﬁeld value. If a complete chain cannot be
constructed, the veriﬁcation service cannot complete "div" validation; it
non-"div" PASSporTs in the request per the normal procedures in
successfully constructed, the veriﬁcation service extracts from the outermost (that is, the most
recent) PASSporT in the chain a "dest" ﬁeld; this will be a "div" PASSporT that no other "div"
PASSporT in the SIP request refers to. Its "dest" element value will be referred to in the
procedures that follow as the value of the "outermost "dest" ﬁeld".

 still validate any
. If a chain has been

MAY
[RFC8224]

Ultimately, by looking at this chain of transformations and validating the associated signatures,
the veriﬁcation service will be able to ascertain that the appropriate parties were responsible for
the retargeting of the call to its current destination. This can help the veriﬁcation service to
determine that the original PASSporT in the call was not simply used in a cut-and-paste attack
and inform any associated authorization decisions in terms of how the call will be treated --
though, per
the scope of this speciﬁcation.

, that decision is a matter of local policy and is thus outside

[RFC8224], Section 6.2.1

A veriﬁcation service parses a chain of PASSporTs as follows:

1.

2.

3.

4.

MUST

 compare the value in the outermost "dest" ﬁeld to the target of

The veriﬁcation service
the call. As it is anticipated that SIP authentication services that create "div" PASSporTs will
populate the "dest" header from the retargeted Request-URI (see Section 4.1), in ordinary SIP
operations, the Request-URI is where veriﬁcation services will ﬁnd the latest call target. Note,
however, that after a "div" PASSporT has been added to a SIP request, the Request-URI may
have been updated during normal call processing to an identiﬁer that no longer contains the
logical destination of a call; in this case, the veriﬁcation service
 compare the "dest" ﬁeld
to a provisioned telephone number for the recipient.

MAY

The veriﬁcation service
 validate the signature over the outermost "div" PASSporT and
establish that the credential that signed the "div" PASSporT has the authority to attest for the
identiﬁer in the "div" element of the PASSporT (per

[RFC8224], Section 6.2

, Step 3).

MUST

MUST

 validate that the "orig" ﬁeld of the innermost PASSporT of the

The veriﬁcation service
chain (the only PASSporT in the chain that will not be of PASSporT type "div") is equivalent to
the "orig" ﬁeld of the outermost "div" PASSporT; in other words, that the original calling
identiﬁer has not been altered by retargeting authentication services. If the "orig" value has
changed, the veriﬁcation service
veriﬁcation service
same "orig" value. Then, the veriﬁcation service validates the relationship of the "orig" ﬁeld
to the SIP-level call signaling per the guidance in

 also verify that all other "div" PASSporTs in the chain share the

 treat the entire PASSporT chain as invalid. The

[RFC8224], Section 6.2

, Step 2.

MUST

MUST

MUST

, Step 4. Furthermore, it is

The veriﬁcation service
 check the date freshness in the outermost "div" PASSporT, per
 that the veriﬁcation service
[RFC8224], Section 6.2
check that the "iat" ﬁeld of the innermost PASSporT is also within the date freshness interval;
otherwise, the veriﬁcation service could allow attackers to replay an old, stale PASSporT
embedded in a fresh "div". However, note that in some use cases, including certain ways that
call transfers are implemented, it is possible that an established call will be retargeted long
after it has originally been placed, and veriﬁcation services may want to allow a longer

RECOMMENDED

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

window for the freshness of the innermost PASSporT if the call is transferred from a trusted
party (as an upper bound, a freshness window on the order of three hours might suﬃce).

5.

MUST

 inspect and validate the signatures on each and every

The veriﬁcation service
PASSporT object in the chain between the outermost "div" PASSporT and the innermost
PASSporT. Note that (per Section 4.1) a chain may terminate at more than one innermost
PASSporT, in cases where a single "div" is used to retarget from multiple innermost
PASSporTs. Also note that
process; if the innermost PASSporT contains an unsupported "ppt", its chain
ignored.

, Step 1 applies to the chain validation
 be

[RFC8224], Section 6.2

MUST

Note that the To header ﬁeld is not used in the ﬁrst step above. Optionally, the veriﬁcation service
 verify that the To header ﬁeld value of the received SIP signaling is equal to the "dest" value
MAY
in the innermost PASSporT; however, as has been observed in some deployments, the original To
header ﬁeld value may be altered by intermediaries to reﬂect changes of target. Deployments
that change the original To header ﬁeld value to conceal the original destination of the call from
the ultimate recipient should note that the original destination of a call may be preserved in the
innermost PASSporT. Future work on "div" might explore methods to implement that sort of
policy while retaining a secure chain of redirection.

5.  The "div-o" PASSporT Type

"opt" (Section 6)

 claim element. As is the case with "div" PASSporT type, a

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a "div-o" PASSporT type that uses the "div" claim element in
conjunction with the
"div-o" PASSporT is created by an authentication service acting for a retargeting entity, but
instead of generating a separate "div" PASSporT to be conveyed alongside an original PASSporT,
the authentication service in this case embeds the original PASSporT inside the "opt" element of
the "div-o" PASSporT. The "div-o" extension is designed for use in non-SIP or gatewayed SIP
environments where the conveyance of PASSporTs in separate Identity header ﬁelds in
impossible, such as

out-of-band STIR scenarios [RFC8816]

.

The syntax of "div-o" PASSporTs is very similar to "div". A "div-o" PASSporT header object might
look as follows:

{ "typ":"passport",
  "ppt":"div-o",
  "alg":"ES256",
  "x5u":"https://www.example.com/cert.cer" }

Whereas a "div" PASSporT claims set contains only the "orig", "dest", "iat", and "div" elements, the
"div-o" additionally
form of the previous PASSporT from which the call was retargeted, triggering the generation of
this "div-o". The format of the "opt" element is identical to the encoded PASSporT format given in
.
Appendix A of [RFC8225]

 contain an "opt" element (see Section 6), which encapsulates the full

MUST

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

So, for an original PASSporT claims set of the form:

   { "orig":{"tn":"12155551212"},
     "dest":{"tn":["12155551213"]},
     "iat":1443208345 }

If the retargeting entity is changing the target from 12155551213 to 12155551214, the new
PASSporT claims set for "div-o" would look as follows:

 { "orig":{"tn":"12155551212"},
   "dest":{"tn":["12155551214"]},
   "iat":1443208345,
   "div":{"tn":"121555551213"},
   "opt":"eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6InBhc3Nwb3J0IiwieDV1IjoiaHR0c \
   HM6Ly93d3cuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20vY2VydC5jZXIifQ.eyJkZXN0Ijp7InRuIjpbIj \
   EyMTU1NTUxMjEzIl19LCJpYXQiOjE0NDMyMDgzNDUsIm9yaWciOnsidG4iOiIxMj \
   E1NTU1MTIxMiJ9fQ.1bEzkzcNbKvgz4QoMx0_DJ2T8qFMDC1sPqHPXl1WvbauzRJ \
   RvYlZqQ0qgGTlS8tJ_wXjVe07Z3wvDrdApHhhYw" }

While in ordinary operations, it is not expected that SIP would carry a "div-o" PASSporT, it might
be possible in some gatewaying scenarios. The resulting full form Identity header ﬁeld with a
"div-o" PASSporT would look as follows:

Identity:eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsInBwdCI6ImRpdi1vIiwidHlwIjoicGFzc3Bvc \
nQiLCJ4NXUiOiJodHRwczovL3d3dy5leGFtcGxlLmNvbS9jZXJ0LmNlciJ9.eyJkZX \
N0Ijp7InRuIjoiMTIxNTU1NTEyMTQifSwiZGl2Ijp7InRuIjoiMTIxNTU1NTUxMjEz \
In0sImlhdCI6MTQ0MzIwODM0NSwib3B0IjoiZXlKaGJHY2lPaUpGVXpJMU5pSXNJbl \
I1Y0NJNkluQmhjM053YjNKMElpd2llRFYxSWpvaWFIUjBjSE02THk5M2QzY3VaWGho \
YlhCc1pTNWpiMjB2WTJWeWRDNWpaWElpZlEuZXlKa1pYTjBJanA3SW5SdUlqcGJJak \
V5TVRVMU5UVXhNakV6SWwxOUxDSnBZWFFpT2pFME5ETXlNRGd6TkRVc0ltOXlhV2Np \
T25zaWRHNGlPaUl4TWpFMU5UVTFNVEl4TWlKOWZRLjFiRXpremNOYkt2Z3o0UW9NeD \
BfREoyVDhxRk1EQzFzUHFIUFhsMVd2YmF1elJKUnZZbFpxUTBxZ0dUbFM4dEpfd1hq \
VmUwN1ozd3ZEcmRBcEhoaFl3Iiwib3JpZyI6eyJ0biI6IjEyMTU1NTUxMjEyIn19.C \
HeA9wRnthl7paMe6rP0TARpmFCXjmi_vF_HRz2O_oulB_R-G9xZNiLVvmvHv4gk6LI \
LaDV2y2VtHTLIEgmHig; \
info=<https://www.example.com/cert.cer>;ppt="div-o"

5.1.  Processing "div-o" PASSporTs

The authentication and veriﬁcation service procedures required for "div-o" closely follow the
guidance given in Sections 4.1 and 4.2, with the major caveats being, ﬁrst, that they do store or
retrieve PASSporTs via the Identity header ﬁeld values of SIP requests and, second, that they
process nested PASSporTs in the "opt" claim element. But transposing the rest of the behaviors
described above to creating and validating "div-o" PASSporTs is straightforward.

For the "div-o" PASSporT type, retargeting authentication services that handle calls with one or
more existing PASSporTs will create a corresponding "div-o" PASSporT for each received
PASSporT. Each "div-o" PASSporT

 contain an "opt" claim set element with the value of the

MUST

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

MUST

original PASSporT from which the "div-o" was created; as speciﬁed in Section 4.1, the
authentication service
 populate the "div" claim set element of the "div-o" PASSporT with
the "dest" ﬁeld of the original PASSporT. Each received PASSporT may in turn contain its own
"opt" claim set element if the retargeting authentication service is not the ﬁrst in its chain. Note
that if the retargeting authentication service is handling a call with multiple PASSporTs, which in
ordinary SIP operation would result in the construction of multiple "div" chains, it will in eﬀect
be generating one "div-o" PASSporT per chain.

MUST

The job of a veriﬁcation service is in many ways easier for "div-o" than for "div", as the
veriﬁcation service has no need to correlate the PASSporTs it receives and assemble them into
chains, as any chains in "div-o" will be nested through the "opt" element. Nonetheless, the
veriﬁcation services
that each nested PASSporT shares the same "orig" ﬁeld as its enclosing PASSporT and that the
"dest" ﬁeld of each nested PASSporT corresponds to the "div" ﬁeld of its enclosing PASSporT. The
same checks
OPTIONAL
outermost PASSporT corresponds to the called party indication of receive telephone signaling,
where such indication would vary depending on the using protocol.

 for the veriﬁcation service to determine that the "dest" claims element of the

 also be performed for freshness, signature validation, and so on. It is similarly

 perform the same chain validation described in Section 4.2 to validate

MUST

How authentication services or veriﬁcation services receive or transport PASSporTs for "div-o" is
outside the scope of this document and dependent on the using protocol.

6.  Deﬁnition of "opt"

The presence of an "Original PASSporT" ("opt") claims set element signiﬁes that a PASSporT
encapsulates another entire PASSporT within it, typically a PASSporT that was transformed in
some way to create the current PASSporT. Relying parties may need to consult the encapsulated
PASSporT in order to validate the identity of a caller. "opt", as deﬁned in this speciﬁcation, may
be used by future PASSporT extensions as well as in conjunction with "div-o".

 contain a quoted full-form PASSporT, as speciﬁed by

[RFC8225], Appendix A MUST

; it

 contain a compact form PASSporT. For an example of a "div-o" PASSporT containing "opt",

MUST

"opt"
NOT
see Section 5.

7.  "div" and Redirection

The "div" mechanism exists primarily to prevent false negatives at veriﬁcation services when an
arriving SIP request, due to intermediary retargeting, does not appear to be intended for its
eventual recipient, because the original PASSporT "dest" value designates a diﬀerent destination.

Any intermediary that assigns a new target to a request can, instead of retargeting and
forwarding the request, redirect with a 3xx response code. In ordinary operations, a redirection
poses no diﬃculties for the operations of baseline STIR: when the user agent client (UAC)
receives the 3xx response, it will initiate a new request to the new target (typically the target

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

carried in the Contact header ﬁeld value of the 3xx), and the "dest" of the PASSporT created for
the new request will match that new target. As no impersonation attack can arise from this case,
it creates no new requirements for STIR.

 or

Diversion [RFC5806]

 and may want to leverage STIR to demonstrate to the ultimate

However, some UACs record the original target of a call with mechanisms like
[RFC7044]
recipient that the call has been redirected securely, that is, that the original destination was the
one that sent the redirection message that led to the recipient receiving the request. The
semantics of the PASSporT necessary for that assertion are the same as those for the "div"
retargeting cases above. The only wrinkle is that the PASSporT needs to be generated by the
redirecting entity and sent back to the originating user agent client within the 3xx response.

History-Info

MAY

 include one "dest" object array value per Contact, but if the

This introduces more complexity than might immediately be apparent. In the ﬁrst place, a 3xx
response can convey multiple targets through the Contact header ﬁeld value; to accommodate
this, the "div" PASSporT
retargeting entity wants to keep the Contact list private from targets, it may need to generate one
PASSporT per Contact. Bear in mind as well that the original SIP request could have carried
multiple Identity header ﬁeld values that had been added by diﬀerent authentication services in
the request path, so a redirecting entity might need to generate one "div" PASSporT for each
PASSporT in the original request. Often, this will mean just one "div" PASSporT, but for some
deployment scenarios, it could require an impractical number of combinations. But in very
complex call routing scenarios, attestation of source identity would only add limited value
anyway.

Therefore, STIR-aware SIP intermediaries that redirect requests
PASSporTs in the backwards direction within Identity header ﬁelds. These redirecting entities
will act as authentication services for "div" as described in Section 4.1. This document
consequently updates
responses. It is left to the originating user agent to determine which Identity header ﬁelds should
be copied from the 3xx into any new requests resulting from the redirection, if any; use of these
Identity header ﬁelds by entities receiving a 3xx response is

 to permit carrying Identity header ﬁelds in SIP 300-class

 convey one or more

.
OPTIONAL

[RFC8224]

MAY

Finally, note that if an intermediary in the response path consumes the 3xx and explores new
targets itself while performing sequential forking, it will eﬀectively retarget the call on behalf of
the redirecting server, and this will create the same need for "div" PASSporTs as any other
retargeted call. These intermediaries
them into sequential forking requests, if appropriate.

 also copy PASSporTs from the 3xx response and insert

MAY

8.  Extending "div" to Work with Service Logic Tracking

It is anticipated that "div" may be used in concert with
deployments. It may not be clear from the "orig" and "dest" values which History-Info header a
given PASSporT correlates to, especially because some of the target changes tracked by History-
Info will not be reﬂected in a "div" PASSporT (see Section 1). Therefore, an "hi" element as

History-Info [RFC7044]

 in some

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

deﬁned here may appear in "div" corresponding to the History-Info header ﬁeld index parameter
value. So for a History-Info header ﬁeld with an index value of "1.2.1", the claims set of the
corresponding PASSporT with "div" might look like:

   { "orig":{"tn":"12155551212"},
     "dest":{"tn":["12155551214"]},
     "iat":1443208345,
     "div":{"tn":"121555551213",
            "hi":"1.2.1"} }

Past experience has shown that there may be additional information about the motivation for
retargeting, which relying parties might consider when making authorization decisions about a
call; see, for example, the "reason" associated with the SIP
Future extensions to this speciﬁcation might incorporate reasons into "div".

Diversion header ﬁeld [RFC5806]

.

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  JSON Web Token Claims Registrations

Per this speciﬁcation, IANA has added two new claims to the "JSON Web Token Claims" registry
as deﬁned in

[RFC7519]

.

9.1.1.  "div" registration

Claim Name:

div

Claim Description:

Diverted Target of a Call

Change Controller:

IESG

Reference:

RFC 8946

9.1.2.  "opt" registration

Claim Name:

opt

Claim Description:

Original PASSporT (in Full Form)

Change Controller:

IESG

Reference:

RFC 8946

9.2.  PASSporT Type Registrations

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes two new PASSporT types for the "Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT)
Extensions" registry deﬁned in
passport>
. They are:

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/

, which resides at

[RFC8225]

•

"div", as deﬁned in Section 3.

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

•

"div-o", as deﬁned in Section 5.

10.  Privacy Considerations

There is an inherent trade-oﬀ in any mechanism that tracks, in SIP signaling, how calls are
routed through a network, as routing decisions may expose policies set by users for how calls are
forwarded, potentially revealing relationships between diﬀerent identiﬁers representing the
same user. Note, however, that in ordinary operations, this information is revealed to the user
agent service of the called party, not the calling party. It is usually the called party who
establishes these forwarding relationships, and if indeed some other party is responsible for calls
being forwarded to the called party, many times the called party should likely be entitled to
information about why they are receiving these calls. Similarly, a redirecting entity who sends a
3xx in the backwards direction knowingly shares information about service logic with the
caller's network. However, as there may be unforeseen circumstances where the revelation of
service logic to the called party poses a privacy risk, implementers and users of this or similar
diversion-tracking techniques should understand the trade-oﬀ.

Furthermore, it is a general privacy risk of identity mechanisms overall that they do not
interface well with anonymization services; the interaction of STIR with anonymization services
is detailed in
may not be able to provide a secure chain of retargeting due to the obfuscation of the originating
identity.

. Any forwarding service that acts as an anonymizing proxy

[RFC8224], Section 11

Also see
SIP.

[RFC8224], Section 11

 for further considerations on the privacy of using PASSporTs in

11.  Security Considerations

This speciﬁcation describes a security feature and is primarily concerned with increasing
security when calls are forwarded. Including information about how calls were retargeted
during the routing process can allow downstream entities to infer particulars of the policies used
to route calls through the network. However, including this information about forwarding is at
the discretion of the retargeting entity, so if there is a requirement to keep an intermediate called
number conﬁdential, no PASSporT should be created for that retargeting -- the only consequence
will be that downstream entities will be unable to correlate an incoming call with the original
PASSporT without access to some prior knowledge of the policies that could have caused the
retargeting.

Any extension that makes PASSporTs larger creates a potential ampliﬁcation mechanism for SIP-
based DDoS attacks. Since diversion PASSporTs are created as a part of normal forwarding
activity, this risk arises at the discretion of the retargeting domain; simply using 3xx response
redirections rather than retargeting (by supplying a "div" per Section 7) mitigates the potential
impact. Under unusual traﬃc loads, even domains that might ordinarily retarget requests can
switch to redirection.

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

SIP has an inherent capability to redirect requests, including forking them to multiple parties --
potentially, a very large number of parties. The use of the "div" PASSporT type does not grant any
additional powers to attackers who hope to place bulk calls; if present, the "div" PASSporT
instead identiﬁes the party responsible for the forwarding. As such, senders of bulk unsolicited
traﬃc are unlikely to ﬁnd the use of "div" attractive.

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3261]

[RFC7044]

[RFC7519]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8224]

[RFC8225]

[RFC8226]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R.,
Handley, M., and E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
10.17487/RFC3261

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
, June 2002,

,
.

,

Barnes, M., Audet, F., Schubert, S., van Elburg, J., and C. Holmberg "An Extension
to the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) for Request History Information" RFC
,
7044 DOI 10.17487/RFC7044
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc7044>

, February 2014,

.

,

,

,
Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI
10.17487/RFC7519

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Peterson, J., Jennings, C., Rescorla, E., and C. Wendt "Authenticated Identity
Management in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 8224 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8224

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8224>

, February 2018,

,

,

.

,

Wendt, C. and J. Peterson "PASSporT: Personal Assertion Token" RFC 8225 DOI
10.17487/RFC8225

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8225>

,
, February 2018,

,

.

Peterson, J. and S. Turner "Secure Telephone Identity Credentials: Certiﬁcates"
RFC 8226 DOI 10.17487/RFC8226
info/rfc8226>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2018,

,

.

,

,

12.2.  Informative References

[RFC5806]

Levy, S. and M. Mohali, Ed. "Diversion Indication in SIP" RFC 5806 DOI
10.17487/RFC5806

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5806>

, March 2010,

,

,

,

.

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8946

PASSporT Diverted

February 2021

[RFC7340]

[RFC8443]

[RFC8816]

Peterson, J., Schulzrinne, H., and H. Tschofenig "Secure Telephone Identity
Problem Statement and Requirements" RFC 7340 DOI 10.17487/RFC7340
,
September 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7340>

,

,

,

.

Singh, R., Dolly, M., Das, S., and A. Nguyen "Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT)
Extension for Resource Priority Authorization" RFC 8443 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8443

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8443>

, August 2018,

,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. and J. Peterson "Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR) Out-of-
, February
,
Band Architecture and Use Cases" RFC 8816 DOI 10.17487/RFC8816
2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8816>

.

,

,

Appendix A.  Keys for Examples

The following EC256 keys are used in the signing examples given in this document. WARNING:
Do not use this key pair in production systems.

-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----
MFkwEwYHKoZIzj0CAQYIKoZIzj0DAQcDQgAEmzGM1VsO+3IqbMF54rQMaYKQftO4
hUYm9wv5wutLgEd9FsiTy3+4+Wa2O7pffOXPC0QzO+yD8hGEXGP/2mZo6w==
-----END PUBLIC KEY-----

-----BEGIN EC PRIVATE KEY-----
MHcCAQEEIFKCsFZ4Wsw3ZpBxgc4Z0sOjaXDdMk07Ny1fKg6OntAkoAoGCCqGSM49
AwEHoUQDQgAEmzGM1VsO+3IqbMF54rQMaYKQftO4hUYm9wv5wutLgEd9FsiTy3+4
+Wa2O7pffOXPC0QzO+yD8hGEXGP/2mZo6w==
-----END EC PRIVATE KEY-----

Acknowledgments

We would like to thank
Campbell Eric Burger
,

Ning Zhang Dave Hancock Chris Wendt Sean Turner Russ Housley Ben
 for contributions to this document.

Robert Sparks

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Author's Address

Jon Peterson
Neustar, Inc.
1800 Sutter St., Suite 570
Concord CA 94520
,
United States of America
Email:

 jon.peterson@team.neustar

Peterson

Standards Track

Page 17

