Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8948
Standards Track
December 2020
2070-1721
CJ. Bernardos
UC3M

A. Mourad
InterDigital

RFC 8948
Structured Local Address Plan (SLAP) Quadrant
Selection Option for DHCPv6

Abstract

The IEEE originally structured the 48-bit Media Access Control (MAC) address space in such a
way that half of it was reserved for local use. In 2017, the IEEE published a new standard (IEEE
Std 802c) with a new optional Structured Local Address Plan (SLAP). It speciﬁes diﬀerent
assignment approaches in four speciﬁed regions of the local MAC address space.

The IEEE is developing protocols to assign addresses (IEEE P802.1CQ). There is also work in the
IETF on specifying a new mechanism that extends DHCPv6 operation to handle the local MAC
address assignments.

This document proposes extensions to DHCPv6 protocols to enable a DHCPv6 client or a DHCPv6
relay to indicate a preferred SLAP quadrant to the server so that the server may allocate MAC
addresses in the quadrant requested by the relay or client. A new DHCPv6 option (QUAD) is
deﬁned for this purpose.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8948

.

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Problem Statement

1.1.1.  Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11) Devices

1.1.2.  Hypervisor: Functions That Are and Are Not Migratable

2.  Terminology

3.  DHCPv6 Extensions

3.1.  Address Assignment from the Preferred SLAP Quadrant Indicated by the Client

3.2.  Address Assignment from the Preferred SLAP Quadrant Indicated by the Relay

4.  DHCPv6 Option Deﬁnition

4.1.  QUAD Option

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Example Uses of Quadrant Selection Mechanisms

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

1.  Introduction

The IEEE structures the 48-bit MAC address space in such a way that half of it is reserved for
local use (where the Universal/Local (U/L) bit is set to 1). In 2017, the IEEE published a new
standard
speciﬁes diﬀerent assignment approaches in four speciﬁed regions of the local MAC address
space. These four regions, called SLAP quadrants, are brieﬂy described below (see Figure 1 and
Table 1 for details):

 that deﬁnes a new optional Structured Local Address Plan (SLAP) that

[IEEEStd802c]

•

In SLAP Quadrant 01, Extended Local Identiﬁer (ELI) MAC addresses are assigned based on a
24-bit Company ID (CID), which is assigned by the IEEE Registration Authority (RA). The
remaining bits are speciﬁed as an extension by the CID assignee or by a protocol designated
by the CID assignee.

•

In SLAP Quadrant 11, Standard Assigned Identiﬁer (SAI) MAC addresses are assigned based
on a protocol speciﬁed in an IEEE 802 standard. For 48-bit MAC addresses, 44 bits are
available. Multiple protocols for assigning SAIs may be speciﬁed in IEEE standards.
Coexistence of multiple protocols may be supported by limiting the subspace available for
assignment by each protocol.

•

In SLAP Quadrant 00, Administratively Assigned Identiﬁer (AAI) MAC addresses are assigned
locally by an administrator. Multicast IPv6 packets use a destination address starting in
33-33, so AAI addresses in that range should not be assigned. For 48-bit MAC addresses, 44
bits are available.

•

SLAP Quadrant 10 is "Reserved for future use" where MAC addresses may be assigned using
new methods yet to be deﬁned or until then by an administrator as in the AAI quadrant. For
48-bit MAC addresses, 44 bits would be available.

       LSB                MSB
       M  X  Y  Z  -  -  -  -
       |  |  |  |
       |  |  |  +------------ SLAP Z-bit
       |  |  +--------------- SLAP Y-bit
       |  +------------------ X-bit (U/L) = 1 for locally assigned
       +--------------------- M-bit (I/G) (unicast/group)

       Legend:
       LSB: Least Significant Bit
       MSB: Most Significant Bit

Figure 1: IEEE 48-Bit MAC Address Structure (in IEEE Representation)

Quadrant

Y-bit

Z-bit

Local Identiﬁer Type

Local Identiﬁer

01

11

0

1

1

1

Extended Local

Standard Assigned

ELI

SAI

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

Quadrant

Y-bit

Z-bit

Local Identiﬁer Type

Local Identiﬁer

00

10

0

1

0

0

Table 1: SLAP Quadrants

Administratively Assigned

AAI

Reserved

Reserved

1.1.  Problem Statement

The IEEE is developing mechanisms to assign addresses
speciﬁes a new mechanism that extends DHCPv6 operation to handle the local MAC address
assignments. This document proposes extensions to DHCPv6 protocols to enable a DHCPv6 client
or a DHCPv6 relay to indicate a preferred SLAP quadrant to the server so that the server may
allocate the MAC addresses in the quadrant requested by the relay or client.

[IEEE-P802.1CQ-Project]

[RFC8947]

. And

In the following, we describe two application scenarios in which a need arises to assign local
MAC addresses according to preferred SLAP quadrants.

1.1.1.  Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11) Devices

Today, most Wi-Fi devices come with interfaces that have a "burned-in" MAC address, allocated
from the universal address space using a 24-bit Organizationally Unique Identiﬁer (OUI)
(assigned to IEEE 802 interface vendors). However, recently, the need to assign local (instead of
universal) MAC addresses has emerged particularly in the following two scenarios:

•

[RFC7228]

IoT (Internet of Things): In general, composed of constrained devices
 with
constraints such as available power and energy, memory, and processing resources.
Examples of this include sensors and actuators for health or home automation applications.
Given the increasingly high number of these devices, manufacturers might prefer to equip
devices with temporary MAC addresses used only at ﬁrst boot. These temporary MAC
addresses would just be used to send initial DHCP packets to available DHCP servers. IoT
devices typically need a single MAC address for each available network interface. Once the
server assigns a MAC address, the device would abandon its temporary MAC address. Home
automation IoT devices typically do not move (however, note that there is an increase of
mobile smart health monitoring devices). For this type of device, in general, any type of SLAP
quadrant would be good for assigning addresses, but ELI/SAI quadrants might be more
suitable in some scenarios. For example, the device might need to use an address from the
CID assigned to the IoT communication device vendor, thus preferring the ELI quadrant.

•

Privacy: Today, MAC addresses allow the exposure of user locations making it relatively easy
to track user movements. One of the mechanisms considered to mitigate this problem is the
use of local random MAC addresses: changing them every time the user connects to a
diﬀerent network. In this scenario, devices are typically mobile. Here, AAI is probably the
best SLAP quadrant from which to assign addresses; it is the best ﬁt for randomization of
addresses, and it is not required for the addresses to survive when changing networks.

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

1.1.2.  Hypervisor: Functions That Are and Are Not Migratable

In large-scale virtualization environments, thousands of virtual machines (VMs) are active. These
VMs are typically managed by a hypervisor, which is in charge of spawning and stopping VMs as
needed. The hypervisor is also typically in charge of assigning new MAC addresses to the VMs. If
a DHCP solution is in place for that, the hypervisor acts as a DHCP client and requests that
available DHCP servers assign one or more MAC addresses (an address block). The hypervisor
does not use those addresses for itself, but rather it uses them to create new VMs with
appropriate MAC addresses. If we assume very large data-center environments, such as the ones
that are typically used nowadays, it is expected that the data center is divided in diﬀerent
network regions, each one managing its own local address space. In this scenario, there are two
possible situations that need to be tackled:

•

Migratable functions: If a VM (providing a given function) needs to be migrated to another
region of the data center (e.g., for maintenance, resilience, end-user mobility, etc.), the VM's
networking context needs to migrate with the VM. This includes the VM's MAC address(es).
Since the assignments from the ELI/SAI SLAP quadrants are governed by rules per IEEE Std
802c, they are more appropriate for use to ensure MAC address uniqueness globally in the
data center.

•

Functions that are not migratable: If a VM will not be migrated to another region of the data
center, there are no requirements associated with its MAC address. In this case, it is simpler
to allocate it from the AAI SLAP quadrant, which does not need to be unique across multiple
data centers (i.e., each region can manage its own MAC address assignment without checking
for duplicates globally).

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Where relevant, the DHCPv6 terminology from
following deﬁnitions are updated for this document.

[RFC8415]

 also applies here. Additionally, the

address

Unless speciﬁed otherwise, a link-layer (or MAC) address, as speciﬁed in
[IEEEStd802]

. The address is 6 or 8 bytes long.

address block

A number of consecutive link-layer addresses. An address block is expressed as a
ﬁrst address plus a number that designates the number of additional (extra)
addresses. A single address can be represented by the address itself and zero
extra addresses.

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

client

IA_LL

LLADDR

relay

server

A node that is interested in obtaining link-layer addresses. It implements the
[RFC8415]
basic DHCP mechanisms needed by a DHCP client, as described in
 as well as the
supports the options (IA_LL and LLADDR) speciﬁed in
new option (QUAD) speciﬁed in this document. The client may or may not
support IPv6 address assignment and preﬁx delegation, as speciﬁed in

[RFC8947]

.
[RFC8415]

, and

Identity Association for Link-Layer Address, an identity association (IA) used to
request or assign link-layer addresses.
on the IA_LL option.

Section 11.1 of [RFC8947]

 provides details

Link-layer address option that is used to request or assign a block of link-layer
addresses.

 provides details on the LLADDR option.

Section 11.2 of [RFC8947]

A node that acts as an intermediary to deliver DHCP messages between clients
and servers. A relay, based on local knowledge and policies, may include the
preferred SLAP quadrant in a QUAD option sent to the server. The relay
implements basic DHCPv6 relay agent functionality, as described in

[RFC8415]

.

A node that manages link-layer address allocation and is able to respond to client
queries. It implements basic DHCP server functionality, as described in
, and supports the options (IA_LL and LLADDR) speciﬁed in
[RFC8415]
[RFC8947]
as well as the new option (QUAD) speciﬁed in this document. The server may or
may not support IPv6 address assignment and preﬁx delegation, as speciﬁed in
[RFC8415]

.

3.  DHCPv6 Extensions

3.1.  Address Assignment from the Preferred SLAP Quadrant Indicated by
the Client

Next, we describe the protocol operations for a client to select a preferred SLAP quadrant using
. The signaling ﬂow is shown in Figure
the DHCPv6 signaling procedures described in
2.

[RFC8947]

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

 +--------+                            +--------+
 | DHCPv6 |                            | DHCPv6 |
 | client |                            | server |
 +--------+                            +--------+
     |                                      |
     +----1. Solicit(IA_LL(LLADDR,QUAD))--->|
     |                                      |
     |<--2. Advertise(IA_LL(LLADDR,QUAD))---+
     |                                      |
     +---3. Request(IA_LL(LLADDR,QUAD))---->|
     |                                      |
     |<------4. Reply(IA_LL(LLADDR))--------+
     |                                      |
     .                                      .
     .          (timer expiring)            .
     .                                      .
     |                                      |
     +---5. Renew(IA_LL(LLADDR,QUAD))------>|
     |                                      |
     |<-----6. Reply(IA_LL(LLADDR))---------+
     |                                      |

Figure 2: DHCPv6 Signaling Flow (Client-Server)

1.

2.

3.

Link-layer addresses (i.e., MAC addresses) are assigned in blocks. The smallest block is a
single address. To request an assignment, the client sends a Solicit message with an IA_LL
option in the message. The IA_LL option
indicate the preferred SLAP quadrant(s), the IA_LL option includes the new
OPTION_SLAP_QUAD option in the IA_LL-option ﬁeld (alongside the LLADDR option).

 contain an LLADDR option. In order to

MUST

The server, upon receiving an IA_LL option in a Solicit message, inspects its contents. For
each of the entries in the OPTION_SLAP_QUAD, in order of the preference ﬁeld (highest to
lowest), the server checks if it has a conﬁgured MAC address pool matching the requested
quadrant identiﬁer and an available range of addresses of the requested size. If suitable
addresses are found, the server sends back an Advertise message with an IA_LL option
containing an LLADDR option that speciﬁes the addresses being oﬀered. If the server
manages a block of addresses belonging to a requested quadrant, the addresses being oﬀered
MUST
matching the client's request, it
oﬀered belonging to a quadrant managed by the server (following a local policy to select
from which of the available quadrants). If the server has a conﬁgured address pool of the
 return the IA_LL option containing a
correct quadrant but no available addresses, it
Status Code option with status set to NoAddrsAvail.

 belong to a requested quadrant. If the server does not have a conﬁgured address pool

 return the IA_LL option with the addresses being

SHOULD

MUST

Section 18.2.9 of [RFC8415]

The client waits for available servers to send Advertise responses and picks one server, as
deﬁned in
 pick a server that does not
advertise an address in the requested quadrant(s). The client then sends a Request message
that includes the IA_LL container option with the LLADDR option copied from the Advertise
message sent by the chosen server. It includes the preferred SLAP quadrant(s) in a new
QUAD IA_LL option.

SHOULD NOT

. The client

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

4.

MAY

Upon reception of a Request message with an IA_LL container option, the server assigns
requested addresses. The server
address block). It then generates and sends a Reply message back to the client. Upon
receiving a Reply message, the client parses the IA_LL container option and may start using
all provided addresses. Note that a client that has included a Rapid Commit option in the
Solicit message may receive a Reply message in response to the Solicit message and skip the
Advertise and Request message steps above (following standard DHCPv6 procedures).

 alter the allocation at this time (e.g., by reducing the

5.

The client is expected to periodically renew the link-layer addresses, as governed by T1 and
T2 timers. This mechanism can be administratively disabled by the server sending "inﬁnity"
as the T1 and T2 values (see
). The client sends a Renew option after
T1. It includes the preferred SLAP quadrant(s) in the new QUAD IA_LL option, so in case the
server is unable to extend the lifetime on the existing address(es), the preferred quadrants
are known for the allocation of any "new" (i.e., diﬀerent) addresses.

Section 7.7 of [RFC8415]

6.

The server responds with a Reply message with an IA_LL option that includes an LLADDR
option with extended lifetime.

The client
quadrants. It

SHOULD

MAY

 check if the received MAC address comes from one of the requested
 repeat the process selecting a diﬀerent DHCP server.

3.2.  Address Assignment from the Preferred SLAP Quadrant Indicated by
the Relay

Next, we describe the protocol operations for a relay to select a preferred SLAP quadrant using
the DHCPv6 signaling procedures described in
. This is useful when a DHCPv6 server is
operating over a large infrastructure split in diﬀerent network regions, where each region might
have diﬀerent requirements. The signaling ﬂow is shown in Figure 3.

[RFC8947]

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

+--------+                  +--------+                     +--------+
| DHCPv6 |                  | DHCPv6 |                     | DHCPv6 |
| client |                  | relay  |                     | server |
+--------+                  +--------+                     +--------+
   |                            |                                |
   +-----1. Solicit(IA_LL)----->|                                |
   |                            +----2. Relay-forward            |
   |                            |    (Solicit(IA_LL),QUAD)------>|
   |                            |                                |
   |                            |<---3. Relay-reply              |
   |                            |    (Advertise(IA_LL(LLADDR)))--+
   |<4. Advertise(IA_LL(LLADDR))+                                |
   |-5. Request(IA_LL(LLADDR))->|                                |
   |                            +-6. Relay-forward               |
   |                            | (Request(IA_LL(LLADDR)),QUAD)->|
   |                            |                                |
   |                            |<--7. Relay-reply               |
   |                            |   (Reply(IA_LL(LLADDR)))-------+
   |<--8. Reply(IA_LL(LLADDR))--+                                |
   |                            |                                |
   .                            .                                .
   .                    (timer expiring)                         .
   .                            .                                .
   |                            |                                |
   +--9. Renew(IA_LL(LLADDR))-->|                                |
   |                            |--10. Relay-forward             |
   |                            |  (Renew(IA_LL(LLADDR)),QUAD)-->|
   |                            |                                |
   |                            |<---11. Relay-reply             |
   |                            |     (Reply(IA_LL(LLADDR)))-----+
   |<--12. Reply(IA_LL(LLADDR))-+                                |
   |                            |                                |

Figure 3: DHCPv6 Signaling Flow (Client-Relay-Server)

1.

2.

Link-layer addresses (i.e., MAC addresses) are assigned in blocks. The smallest block is a
single address. To request an assignment, the client sends a Solicit message with an IA_LL
option in the message. The IA_LL option

 contain an LLADDR option.

MUST

The DHCP relay receives the Solicit message and encapsulates it in a Relay-forward message.
The relay, based on local knowledge and policies, includes in the Relay-forward message the
QUAD option with the preferred quadrant. The relay might know which quadrant to request
based on local conﬁguration (e.g., the served network contains IoT devices only, thus
requiring ELI/SAI) or other means. Note that if a client sends multiple instances of the IA_LL
option in the same message, the DHCP relay
MAY
option.

 only add a single instance of the QUAD

3.

Upon receiving a relayed message containing an IA_LL option, the server inspects the
contents for instances of OPTION_SLAP_QUAD in both the Relay-forward message and the
client's message payload. Depending on the server's policy, the instance of the option to
process is selected (see the end of this section). For each of the entries in
OPTION_SLAP_QUAD, in order of the preference ﬁeld (highest to lowest), the server checks if
it has a conﬁgured MAC address pool matching the requested quadrant identiﬁer and an

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

available range of addresses of the requested size. If suitable addresses are found, the server
sends back an Advertise message with an IA_LL option containing an LLADDR option that
speciﬁes the addresses being oﬀered. This message is sent to the Relay in a Relay-reply
message. If the server supports the semantics of the preferred quadrant included in the
QUAD option and manages a block of addresses belonging to a requested quadrant, then the
addresses being oﬀered
 apply the
contents of the relay's supplied QUAD option for all of the client's IA_LLs, unless conﬁgured
to do otherwise.

 belong to a requested quadrant. The server

SHOULD

MUST

4.

The relay sends the received Advertise message to the client.

5.

The client waits for available servers to send Advertise responses and picks one server, as
deﬁned in
. The client then sends a Request message that includes
the IA_LL container option with the LLADDR option copied from the Advertise message sent
by the chosen server.

Section 18.2.9 of [RFC8415]

6.

The relay forwards the received Request in a Relay-forward message. It adds, in the Relay-
forward, a QUAD IA_LL option with the preferred quadrant.

7.

Upon reception of the forwarded Request message with IA_LL container option, the server
assigns requested addresses. The server
generates and sends a Reply message in a Relay-reply message back to the relay.

 alter the allocation at this time. It then

MAY

8.

Upon receiving a Reply message, the client parses the IA_LL container option and may start
using all provided addresses.

9.

The client is expected to periodically renew the link-layer addresses, as governed by T1 and
T2 timers. This mechanism can be administratively disabled by the server sending "inﬁnity"
as the T1 and T2 values (see
). The client sends a Renew option after
T1.

Section 7.7 of [RFC8415]

10.

This message is forwarded by the relay in a Relay-forward message, including a QUAD IA_LL
option with the preferred quadrant.

11.

The server responds with a Reply message, including an LLADDR option with extended
lifetime. This message is sent in a Relay-reply message.

12.

The relay sends the Reply message back to the client.

SHOULD

The server
 implement a conﬁguration parameter to deal with the case where the client's
DHCP message contains an instance of OPTION_SLAP_QUAD and the relay adds a second instance
in its Relay-forward message. This parameter conﬁgures the server to process either the client's
or the relay's instance of option QUAD. It is
is to process the client's instance of the option.

 that the default for such a parameter

RECOMMENDED

The client
MAY
conﬁgure and

 check if the received MAC address belongs to a quadrant it is willing to use/
 decide based on that whether to use/conﬁgure the received address.
MAY

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

4.  DHCPv6 Option Deﬁnition

4.1.  QUAD Option

The QUAD option is used to specify the preferences for the selected quadrants within an IA_LL.
The option
Relay-forward message.

 be encapsulated either in the IA_LL-options ﬁeld of an IA_LL option or in a

MUST

The format of the QUAD option is:

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |       OPTION_SLAP_QUAD        |          option-len           |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |   quadrant-1  |    pref-1     |   quadrant-2  |    pref-2     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   .                                                               .
   .                                                               .
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |  quadrant-n-1 |   pref-n-1    |   quadrant-n  |    pref-n     |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: QUAD Option Format

option-code

OPTION_SLAP_QUAD (140).

option-len

2 * number of included (quadrant, preference). This is a 2-byte ﬁeld containing
the total length of all (quadrant, preference) pairs included in the option.

quadrant-n

Identiﬁer of the quadrant (0: AAI, 1: ELI, 2: Reserved by IEEE
3: SAI). Each quadrant
byte ﬁeld.

, and
 only appear once at most in the option. This is a 1-

[IEEEStd802c]

MUST

pref-n

Preference associated to quadrant-n. A higher value means a more preferred
quadrant. This is a 1-byte ﬁeld.

A quadrant identiﬁer value
more than one occurrence of the same quadrant identiﬁer, only the ﬁrst occurrence is processed,
and the rest

 only appear, at most, once in the option. If an option includes

 be ignored by the server.

MUST

MUST

If the same preference value is used for more than one quadrant, the server
quadrant should be preferred (if the server can assign addresses from all or some of the
quadrants with the same assigned preference). Note that this is not a simple list of quadrants
ordered by preference with no preference value, but a list of quadrants with explicit preference
values. This way it can support the case whereby a client really has no preference between two
or three quadrants, leaving the decision to the server.

 select which

MAY

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

If the client or relay agent provides the OPTION_SLAP_QUAD, the server
n/pref-n values to order the selection of the quadrants. If the server can provide an assignment
from one of the speciﬁed quadrants, it
 proceed with the assignment. If the server does
not have a conﬁgured address pool matching any of the speciﬁed quadrant-n ﬁelds or if the
server has a conﬁgured address pool of the correct quadrant but no available addresses, it
return the IA_LL option containing a status of NoAddrsAvail.

 use the quadrant-

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

There is no requirement that the client or relay agent order the quadrant/pref values in any
speciﬁc order; hence, servers
preference (except if there is only one set of values).

 assume that quadrant-1/pref-1 have the highest

MUST NOT

For cases where a server may not be conﬁgured to have pools for the client or relay quadrant
 specify all quadrants in the QUAD option to assure the
preferences, clients and relays
client gets an address (or addresses) -- if any are available. Specifying all quadrants also results in
a QUAD option supporting server responding like a non-QUAD option supporting server, i.e., an
address (or addresses) from any available quadrants can be returned.

SHOULD

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned the QUAD (140) option code from the "Option Codes" subregistry of the
"Dynamic Host Conﬁguration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)" registry maintained at
:
www.iana.org/assignments/dhcpv6-parameters>

<http://

140
Value:
OPTION_SLAP_QUAD
Description:
No
Client ORO:
Singleton Option:
Reference:

Yes
RFC 8948

6.  Security Considerations

[RFC8415]

See
for the IPv6 security considerations.

[RFC7227]

 and

 for the DHCPv6 security and privacy considerations. See

[RFC8200]

Also, see
DHCP.

[RFC8947]

 for security considerations regarding link-layer address assignments using

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

[RFC8174]

[RFC8415]

[RFC8947]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Mrugalski, T., Siodelski, M., Volz, B., Yourtchenko, A., Richardson, M., Jiang, S.,
Lemon, T., and T. Winters "Dynamic Host Conﬁguration Protocol for IPv6
(DHCPv6)" RFC 8415 DOI 10.17487/RFC8415
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8415>

, November 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

Volz, B., Mrugalski, T., and CJ. Bernardos "Link-Layer Address Assignment
Mechanism for DHCPv6" RFC 8947 DOI 10.17487/RFC8947
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8947>

, December 2020,

,

,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[IEEE-P802.1CQ-Project]

,

IEEE "P802.1CQ - Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area
Networks: Multicast and Local Address Assignment" <https://standards.ieee.org/
project/802_1CQ.html>

,

.

[IEEEStd802]

[IEEEStd802c]

[RFC7227]

[RFC7228]

[RFC7548]

[RFC8200]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks: Overview and
Architecture" IEEE Std 802-2014 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2014.6847097
<https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2014.6847097>

, June 2014,

,

,

.

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks: Overview and
Architecture -- Amendment 2: Local Medium Access Control (MAC) Address
Usage" IEEE Std 802c-2017 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2017.8016709
<https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2017.8016709>

, August 2017,

,

,

.

Hankins, D., Mrugalski, T., Siodelski, M., Jiang, S., and S. Krishnan "Guidelines
for Creating New DHCPv6 Options" BCP 187 RFC 7227 DOI 10.17487/RFC7227
May 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7227>

,

,

.

,

,

,

Bormann, C., Ersue, M., and A. Keranen "Terminology for Constrained-Node
,
,
Networks" RFC 7228 DOI 10.17487/RFC7228
editor.org/info/rfc7228>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2014,

.

,

Ersue, M., Ed., Romascanu, D., Schoenwaelder, J., and A. Sehgal "Management of
Networks with Constrained Devices: Use Cases" RFC 7548 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7548

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7548>

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Deering, S. and R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8200>

, July 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Appendix A.  Example Uses of Quadrant Selection Mechanisms

This appendix describes some examples of how the quadrant preference mechanisms could be
used.

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

First, let's take an IoT scenario as an example. An IoT device might decide on its own the SLAP
quadrant it wants to use to obtain a local MAC address, using the following information to make
the decision:

•

Type of IoT deployment: For example, industrial, domestic, rural, etc. For small deployments,
such as domestic ones, the IoT device itself can decide to use the AAI quadrant (this might
not even involve the use of DHCP, by the device just conﬁguring a random address computed
by the device itself). For large deployments, such as industrial or rural ones, where
thousands of devices might coexist, the IoT can decide to use the ELI or SAI quadrants.

•

Mobility: If the IoT device can move, then it might prefer to select the SAI or AAI quadrants
to minimize address collisions when moving to another network. If the device is known to
remain ﬁxed, then the ELI is probably the most suitable one to use.

•

Managed/Unmanaged: Depending on whether the IoT device is managed during its lifetime
or cannot be reconﬁgured
might be diﬀerent. For example, if the IoT device can be managed (e.g., conﬁgured) and
network topology changes might occur during its lifetime (e.g., due to changes on the
deployment, such as extensions involving additional devices), this has an impact on the
preferred quadrant (e.g., to avoid potential collisions in the future).

, the decision of what quadrant is more appropriate

[RFC7548]

•

Operation / Battery Lifetime: Depending on the expected lifetime of the device, a diﬀerent
quadrant might be preferred (as before, to minimize potential address collisions in the
future).

The previous parameters are considerations that the device vendor/administrator may wish to
use when deﬁning the IoT device's MAC address request policy (i.e., how to select a given SLAP
quadrant). IoT devices are typically very resource constrained, so there may only be a simple
decision-making process based on preconﬁgured preferences.

We now take the Wi-Fi device scenario, considering, for example, that a laptop or smartphone
connects to a network using its built-in MAC address. Due to privacy/security concerns, the
device might want to conﬁgure a local MAC address. The device might use diﬀerent parameters
and context information to decide, not only which SLAP quadrant to use for the local MAC
address conﬁguration, but also when to perform a change of address (e.g., it might be needed to
change address several times). This information includes, but it is not limited to:

•

Type of network the device is connected: public, work, home.

•

Trusted network: Yes/No.

•

First time visited network: Yes/No.

•

Network geographical location.

•

Mobility: Yes (the device might change its network attachment point) / No (the device is not
going to change its network attachment point).

•

Operating System (OS) network proﬁle, including security/trust-related parameters: Most
modern OSs keep metadata associated with the networks they can attach to as, for example,
the level of trust the user or administrator assigns to the network. This information is used to
conﬁgure how the device behaves in terms of advertising itself on the network, ﬁrewall
settings, etc. But this information can also be used to decide whether or not to conﬁgure a

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

local MAC address, from which SLAP quadrant it should be assigned, and how often it may
be assigned.

•

Triggers coming from applications regarding location privacy: An app might request that the
OS maximize location privacy (due to the nature of the application), and this might require
the OS to force the use of a local MAC address or the local MAC address to be changed.

This information can be used by the device to select the SLAP quadrant. For example, if the
device is moving around (e.g., while connected to a public network in an airport), it is likely that
it might change access points several times; therefore, it is best to minimize the chances of
address collision, using the SAI or AAI quadrants. If the device is not expected to move and is
attached to a trusted network (e.g., in some scenarios at work), then it is probably best to select
the ELI quadrant. These are just some examples of how to use this information to select the
quadrant.

Additionally, the information can also be used to trigger subsequent changes of MAC address to
enhance location privacy. Besides, changing the SLAP quadrant might also be used as an
additional enhancement to make it harder to track the user location.

Last, if we consider the data-center scenario, a hypervisor might request local MAC addresses be
assigned to virtual machines. As in the previous scenarios, the hypervisor might select the
preferred SLAP quadrant using information provided by the cloud management system or
virtualization infrastructure manager running on top of the hypervisor. This information might
include, but is not limited to:

•

Migratable VM: If the function implemented by the VM is subject to be moved to another
physical server or not, this has an impact on the preference for the SLAP quadrant, as the
ELI and SAI quadrants are better suited for supporting migration in a large data center.

•

VM connectivity characteristics: For example, standalone, part of a pool, and part of a service
graph/chain. If the connectivity characteristics of the VM are known, this can be used by the
hypervisor to select the best SLAP quadrant.

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
Ian Farrer Tomek Mrugalski Éric Vyncke Tatuya Jinmei Carl Wallace
We also want to thank
Ines Robles Ted Lemon Jaime Jimenez Robert Wilton Benjamin Kaduk Barry Leiba Alvaro
,
,
Retana
, and
Marks
 and

 for his very valuable comments on this document.
,

 for their very detailed and helpful reviews. And thanks to

 for comments related to IEEE work and references.

Bernie Volz
,

Murray Kucherawy

Antonio de la Oliva

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Roger

The work in this document has been supported by the H2020 5GROWTH (Grant 856709) and 5G-
DIVE projects (Grant 859881).

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8948

DHCPv6 SLAP Quadrant Selection

December 2020

Authors' Addresses

Carlos J. Bernardos
Universidad Carlos III de Madrid
Av. Universidad, 30
28911 Leganes, Madrid
Spain
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +34 91624 6236
 cjbc@it.uc3m.es

 http://www.it.uc3m.es/cjbc/

Alain Mourad
InterDigital Europe
Email:
URI:

 Alain.Mourad@InterDigital.com

 http://www.InterDigital.com/

Bernardos & Mourad

Standards Track

Page 16

