Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8710
Standards Track
February 2020
2070-1721
T. Fossati
ARM

K. Hartke
Ericsson

C. Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI

RFC 8710
Multipart Content-Format for the Constrained
Application Protocol (CoAP)

Abstract

This memo deﬁnes application/multipart-core, an application-independent media type that can
be used to combine representations of zero or more diﬀerent media types (each with a
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) Content-Format identiﬁer) into a single representation,
with minimal framing overhead.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8710

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Fossati, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8710

Multipart Content-Format for CoAP

February 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Multipart Content-Format Encoding

3.  Usage Example: Observing Resources

4.  Implementation Hints

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  Registration of Media Type application/multipart-core

5.2.  Registration of a Content-Format Identiﬁer for application/multipart-core

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This memo deﬁnes application/multipart-core, an application-independent media type that can
be used to combine representations of zero or more diﬀerent media types (each with a CoAP
Content-Format identiﬁer
overhead.

) into a single representation, with minimal framing

[RFC7252]

This simple and eﬃcient binary framing mechanism can be employed to create application-
speciﬁc message bodies that build on multiple already existing media types.

As the name of the media type suggests, application/multipart-core was inspired by the multipart
media types initially deﬁned in the original set of MIME speciﬁcations
However, while those needed to focus on the syntactic aspects of integrating multiple
representations into one email, transfer protocols providing full data transparency such as CoAP
as well as readily available encoding formats such as the Concise Binary Object Representation
 shift the focus towards the intended use of the combined representations. In
(CBOR)

 and later.

[RFC2046]

[RFC7049]

Fossati, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8710

Multipart Content-Format for CoAP

February 2020

this respect, the basic intent of the application/multipart-core media type is like that of multipart/
Section 5.1.3 of [RFC2046]
mixed (
); however, the semantics are relaxed to allow for both ordered
and unordered collections of media types.

Historical Note: Experience with multipart/mixed in email has shown that recipients that
care about order of included body parts will process them in the order they are listed inside
multipart/mixed, and recipients that don't care about the order will ignore it anyway. The
media type multipart/parallel that was intended for unordered collections didn't deploy.

The detailed semantics of the representations are reﬁned by the context established by the
application in the accompanying request parameters, e.g., the resource URI and any further
options (header ﬁelds), but three usage scenarios are envisioned:

In one case, the individual representations in an application/multipart-core message body occur
in a sequence, which may be employed by an application where such a sequence is natural, e.g.,
for a number of audio snippets in various formats to be played out in that sequence or search
results returned in order of relevance.

In another case, an application may be more interested in a bag of representations (which are
distinguished by their Content-Format identiﬁers), such as an audio snippet and a text
representation accompanying it. In such a case, the sequence in which these occur may not be
relevant to the application. This speciﬁcation adds the option of substituting a null value for the
representation of an optional part, which indicates that the part is not present.

A third common situation only has a single representation in the sequence, and the sender
selects just one of a set of formats possible for this situation. This kind of union "type" of formats
may also make the presence of the actual representation optional, the omission of which leads to
a zero-length array.

Where these rules are not suﬃcient, an application might still use the general format deﬁned
here but register a new media type and an associated Content-Format identiﬁer to associate the
representation with these more speciﬁc semantics instead of using the application/multipart-core
media type.

Also, future speciﬁcations might want to deﬁne rough equivalents for other multipart media
types with speciﬁc semantics not covered by the present speciﬁcation, such as multipart/
alternative (
in the message body, but only one of those is to be selected by the recipient for its use (this is less
likely to be useful in a constrained environment that has facilities for pre-ﬂight discovery).

), where several alternative representations are provided

Section 5.1.4 of [RFC2046]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Fossati, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8710

Multipart Content-Format for CoAP

February 2020

2.  Multipart Content-Format Encoding

A representation of media type application/multipart-core contains a collection of zero or more
representations, each along with their respective Content-Format.

The collection is encoded as a CBOR
 array with an even number of elements. Counting
from zero, the odd-numbered elements are a byte string containing a representation or the value
"null" (if an optional part is indicated as not given). The (even-numbered) element preceding
each of these is an unsigned integer specifying the Content-Format ID of the representation
following it.

[RFC7049]

For example, a collection containing two representations, one with Content-Format ID 42 and one
with Content-Format ID 0, looks like this in CBOR diagnostic notation:

[42, h'0123456789abcdef', 0, h'3031323334']

For illustration, the structure of an application/multipart-core representation can be described
by the Concise Data Deﬁnition Language (CDDL)

 speciﬁcation in Figure 1:

[RFC8610]

multipart-core = [* multipart-part]
multipart-part = (type: uint .size 2, part: bytes / null)

Figure 1: CDDL for application/multipart-core

This format is intended as a strict speciﬁcation: an implementation
representation if there is a CBOR well-formedness error, a deviation from the structure deﬁned
above, or any residual data left after processing the CBOR data item. (This generally means the
representation is not processed at all unless some streaming processing has already happened.)

 stop processing the

MUST

3.  Usage Example: Observing Resources

This section illustrates a less obvious example for using application/multipart-core: combining it
with observing a resource

 to handle pending results.

[RFC7641]

When a client registers to observe a resource for which no representation is available yet, the
server may send one or more 2.05 (Content) notiﬁcations that indicate the lack of an actual
representation. Later on, when one becomes available, the server will send the ﬁrst actual 2.05
(Content) or 2.03 (Valid) notiﬁcation. A diagram depicting possible resulting sequences of
notiﬁcations, identiﬁed by their respective response code, is shown in Figure 2.

Fossati, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8710

Multipart Content-Format for CoAP

February 2020

      __________       __________       __________
     |          |     |          |     |          |
---->|   2.05   |---->|  2.05 /  |---->|  4.xx /  |
     |  Pending |     |   2.03   |     |   5.xx   |
     |__________|     |__________|     |__________|
        ^   \ \          ^    \           ^
         \__/  \          \___/          /
                \_______________________/

Figure 2: Sequence of Notiﬁcations

The speciﬁcation of the Observe option requires that all notiﬁcations carry the same Content-
Format. The application/multipart-core media type can be used to provide that Content-Format,
e.g., by carrying an empty list of representations in the case marked as "Pending" in Figure 2 and
carrying a single representation speciﬁed as the target Content-Format in the case in the middle
of the ﬁgure.

4.  Implementation Hints

This section describes the serialization for readers that may be new to CBOR. It does not contain
any new information.

An application/multipart-core representation carrying no representations is represented by an
empty CBOR array, which is serialized as a single byte with the value 0x80.

An application/multipart-core representation carrying a single representation is represented by
a two-element CBOR array, which is serialized as 0x82 followed by the two elements. The ﬁrst
element is an unsigned integer for the Content-Format value, which is represented as described
in Table 1. The second element is the object as a byte string, which is represented as a length as
described in Table 2 followed by the bytes of the object.

Serialization

0x00..0x17

0x18 0xnn

Value

0..23

24..255

0x19 0xnn 0xnn

256..65535

Table 1: Serialization of Content-Format

Serialization

0x40..0x57

0x58 0xnn

Length

0..23

24..255

0x59 0xnn 0xnn

256..65535

Fossati, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8710

Multipart Content-Format for CoAP

February 2020

Serialization

Length

0x5a 0xnn 0xnn 0xnn 0xnn

65536..4294967295

0x5b 0xnn .. 0xnn (8 bytes)

4294967296..

Table 2: Serialization of Object Length

For example, a single text/plain object (Content-Format 0) of value "Hello World" (11 characters)
would be serialized as follows:

0x82 0x00 0x4b H e l l o 0x20 W o r l d

In eﬀect, the serialization for a single object is done by preﬁxing the object with information that
there is one object (here: 0x82), information about its Content-Format (here: 0x00), and
information regarding its length (here: 0x4b).

For more than one representation included in an application/multipart-core representation, the
head of the CBOR array is adjusted (0x84 for two representations, 0x86 for three, etc.), and the
sequences of Content-Format and embedded representations follow.

For instance, the example from Section 2 would be serialized as follows:

0x84 (*) 0x182A 0x48 0x0123456789ABCDEF (+) 0x00 0x45 0x3031323334

where (*) marks the start of the information about the ﬁrst representation (Content-Format 42,
byte string length 8), and (+) marks the start of the second representation (Content-Format 0, byte
string length 5).

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  Registration of Media Type application/multipart-core

IANA has registered the following media type

[RFC6838]
:

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

multipart-core

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

binary

Security considerations:

See the Security Considerations section of RFC 8710.

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published speciﬁcation:

RFC 8710

Fossati, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8710

Multipart Content-Format for CoAP

February 2020

Applications that use this media type:

Applications that need to combine representations of

zero or more diﬀerent media types into one, e.g., EST over secure CoAP (EST-CoAP)
COAPS]

[EST-

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:

The syntax and semantics of fragment identiﬁers speciﬁed
for application/multipart-core are as speciﬁed for application/cbor. (At publication of this
document, there is no fragment identiﬁcation syntax deﬁned for application/cbor.)

Additional information: Deprecated alias names for this type:

N/A

Magic number(s):

N/A

File extension(s):

N/A

Macintosh ﬁle type code(s):

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

iesg@ietf.org

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Author:

CoRE WG

Change controller:

IESG

Provisional registration? (standards tree only):

no

5.2.  Registration of a Content-Format Identiﬁer for application/multipart-
core

IANA has registered the following Content-Format in the "CoAP Content-Formats" subregistry
within the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters" registry:

Media Type

Encoding

ID Reference

application/multipart-core

-

62

RFC 8710

Table 3: Addition to "CoAP Content-Formats" Registry

6.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of
employ large values for the byte string size ﬁelds or employ deeply nested structures of
recursively embedded application/multipart-core representations.

 apply. In particular, resource exhaustion attacks may

[RFC7049]

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

Fossati, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8710

Multipart Content-Format for CoAP

February 2020

[RFC2119]

[RFC7049]

[RFC7252]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Bormann, C. and P. Hoﬀman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
RFC 7049 DOI 10.17487/RFC7049
rfc7049>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2013,

,
.

,

,

,
Shelby, Z., Hartke, K., and C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

<https://www.rfc-

, June 2014,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

7.2.  Informative References

[EST-COAPS]

[RFC2046]

[RFC6838]

[RFC7641]

[RFC8610]

Stok, P., Kampanakis, P., Richardson, M., and S. Raza "EST over secure CoAP
,
(EST-coaps)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ace-coap-est-18
January 2020,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-ace-coap-est-18>

, 6

.

,

,

,
Freed, N. and N. Borenstein "Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
, November 1996,
Part Two: Media Types" RFC 2046 DOI 10.17487/RFC2046
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2046>

,

,

.

Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen "Media Type Speciﬁcations and Registration
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, January 2013,

<https://

,

,

.

,

,

,

Hartke, K. "Observing Resources in the Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP)" RFC 7641 DOI 10.17487/RFC7641
editor.org/info/rfc7641>

, September 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

Birkholz, H., Vigano, C., and C. Bormann "Concise Data Deﬁnition Language
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

, June 2019,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

Most of the text in this document is from earlier contributions by two of the authors,
 and
Fossati
requirements in
Peter van der Stok

. This earlier work was reorganized in this document based on the

Michael Richardson Panos Kampanis

 and discussions with

Klaus Hartke

[EST-COAPS]

,

.

Thomas

, and

Fossati, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8710

Multipart Content-Format for CoAP

February 2020

Authors' Addresses

Thomas Fossati
ARM
Email:

 thomas.fossati@arm.com

Klaus Hartke
Ericsson
Torshamnsgatan 23
16483 Stockholm
Sweden
Email:

 klaus.hartke@ericsson.com

Carsten Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-421-218-63921
 cabo@tzi.org

Fossati, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

