Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8753
5892
Standards Track
April 2020
2070-1721
J. Klensin

P. Fältström
Netnod

RFC 8753
Internationalized Domain Names for Applications
(IDNA) Review for New Unicode Versions

Abstract

The standards for Internationalized Domain Names in Applications (IDNA) require a review of
each new version of Unicode to determine whether incompatibilities with prior versions or other
issues exist and, where appropriate, to allow the IETF to decide on the trade-oﬀs between
compatibility with prior IDNA versions and compatibility with Unicode going forward. That
requirement, and its relationship to tables maintained by IANA, has caused signiﬁcant confusion
in the past. This document makes adjustments to the review procedure based on experience and
updates IDNA, speciﬁcally RFC 5892, to reﬂect those changes and to clarify the various
relationships involved. It also makes other minor adjustments to align that document with
experience.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8753

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8753

IDNA Unicode Reviews

April 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Brief History of IDNA Versions, the Review Requirement, and RFC 5982

3.  The Review Model

3.1.  Review Model Part I: Algorithmic Comparison

3.2.  Review Model Part II: New Code Point Analysis

4.  IDNA Assumptions and Current Practice

5.  Derived Tables Published by IANA

6.  Editorial Clariﬁcation to RFC 5892

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Summary of Changes to RFC 5892

Appendix B.  Background and Rationale for Expert Review Procedure for New Code Point

Analysis

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8753

IDNA Unicode Reviews

April 2020

1.  Introduction

The standards for Internationalized Domain Names in Applications (IDNA) require a review of
each new version of Unicode to determine whether incompatibilities with prior versions or other
issues exist and, where appropriate, to allow the IETF to decide on the trade-oﬀs between
compatibility with prior IDNA versions and compatibility with Unicode
That requirement, and its relationship to tables maintained by IANA, has caused signiﬁcant
confusion in the past (see Section 3 and Section 4 for additional discussion of the question of
appropriate decisions and the history of these reviews). This document makes adjustments to the
review procedure based on nearly a decade of experience and updates IDNA, speciﬁcally the
document that speciﬁes the relationship between Unicode code points and IDNA derived
properties

, to reﬂect those changes and to clarify the various relationships involved.

 going forward.

[RFC5892]

[Unicode]

This speciﬁcation does not change the requirement that registries at all levels of the DNS tree
take responsibility for the labels they insert in the DNS, a level of responsibility that requires
allowing only a subset of the code points and strings allowed by the IDNA protocol itself. That
requirement is discussed in more detail in a companion document

.
[RegRestr]

Terminology note: In this document, "IDNA" refers to the current version as described in
5890 [RFC5890]
between it and the earlier version are explicit only where they are necessary for understanding
the relationships involved, e.g., in Section 2.

 and subsequent documents and sometimes known as "IDNA2008". Distinctions

RFC

2.  Brief History of IDNA Versions, the Review Requirement,
and RFC 5982

, was deﬁned in terms of a proﬁle of a collection of IETF-speciﬁc tables

The original, now-obsolete, version of IDNA, commonly known as "IDNA2003"
[RFC3491]
speciﬁed the usability of each Unicode code point with IDNA. Because the tables themselves were
normative, they were intrinsically tied to a particular version of Unicode. As Unicode evolved,
the IDNA2003 standard would have required the creation of a new proﬁle for each new version
of Unicode, or the tables would have fallen further and further behind.

[RFC3454]

[RFC3490]

 that

[RFC5890]

When IDNA2003 was superseded by the current version, known as IDNA2008
, a
diﬀerent strategy, one that was property-based rather than table-based, was adopted for a
. In
number of reasons, of which the reliance on normative tables was not dominant
the IDNA2008 model, the use of normative tables was replaced by a set of procedures and rules
that operated on Unicode properties
[Unicode-properties]
determine the category and status, and hence an IDNA-speciﬁc "derived property", for any given
code point. Those rules are, in principle, independent of Unicode versions. They can be applied to
any version of Unicode, at least from approximately version 5.0 forward, to yield an appropriate
set of derived properties. However, the working group that deﬁned IDNA2008 recognized that
not all of the Unicode properties were completely stable and that, because the criteria for new
code points and property assignment used by the Unicode Consortium might not precisely align

 and a few internal deﬁnitions to

[RFC4690]

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8753

IDNA Unicode Reviews

April 2020

with the needs of IDNA, there were possibilities of incompatible changes to the derived property
values. More speciﬁcally, there could be changes that would make previously disallowed labels
valid, previously valid labels disallowed, or that would be disruptive to IDNA's deﬁning rule
structure. Consequently, IDNA2008 provided for an expert review of each new version of
Unicode with the possibility of providing exceptions to the rules for particular new code points,
code points whose properties had changed, and newly discovered issues with the IDNA2008
collection of rules. When problems were identiﬁed, the reviewer was expected to notify the IESG.
The assumption was that the IETF would review the situation and modify IDNA2008 as needed,
most likely by adding exceptions to preserve backward compatibility (see Section 3.1).

For the convenience of the community, IDNA2008 also provided that IANA would maintain
copies of calculated tables resulting from each review, showing the derived properties for each
code point. Those tables were expected to be helpful, especially to those without the facilities to
easily compute derived properties themselves. Experience with the community and those tables
has shown that they have been confused with the normative tables of IDNA2003: the IDNA2008
tables published by IANA have never been normative, and statements about IDNA2008 being out
of date with regard to some Unicode version because the IANA tables have not been updated are
incorrect or meaningless.

3.  The Review Model

While the text has sometimes been interpreted diﬀerently, IDNA2008 actually calls for two types
of review when a new Unicode version is introduced. One is an algorithmic comparison of the set
of derived properties calculated from the new version of Unicode to the derived properties
calculated from the previous one to determine whether incompatible changes have occurred.
The other is a review of newly assigned code points to determine whether any of them require
special treatment (e.g., assignment of what IDNA2008 calls contextual rules) and whether any of
them violate any of the assumptions underlying the IDNA2008 derived property calculations.
Any of the cases of either review might require either per-code point exceptions or other
adjustments to the rules for deriving properties that are part of RFC 5892. The subsections below
provide a revised speciﬁcation for the review procedure.

Unless the IESG or the designated expert team concludes that there are special problems or
unusual circumstances, these reviews will be performed only for major Unicode versions (those
numbered NN.0, e.g., 12.0) and not for minor updates (e.g., 12.1).

As can be seen in the detailed descriptions in the following subsections, proper review will
require a team of experts that has both broad and speciﬁc skills in reviewing Unicode characters
and their properties in relation to both the written standards and operational needs. The IESG
will need to appoint experts who can draw on the broader community to obtain the necessary
skills for particular situations. See the IANA Considerations (Section 7) for details.

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8753

IDNA Unicode Reviews

April 2020

3.1.  Review Model Part I: Algorithmic Comparison

Section 5.1 of RFC 5892 is the description of the process for creating the initial IANA tables. It is
noteworthy that, while it can be read as strongly implying new reviews and new tables for
versions of Unicode after 5.2, it does not explicitly specify those reviews or, e.g., the timetable for
completing them. It also indicates that incompatibilities are to be "ﬂagged for the IESG" but does
not specify exactly what the IESG is to do about them and when. For reasons related to the other
type of review and discussed below, only one review was completed, documented
a set of corresponding new tables installed. That review, which was for Unicode 6.0, found only
three incompatibilities; the consensus was to ignore them (not create exceptions in IDNA2008)
and to remain consistent with computations based on current (Unicode 6.0) properties rather
than preserving backward compatibility within IDNA. The 2018 review (for Unicode 11.0 and
versions in between it and 6.0)
 also concluded that Unicode compatibility,
rather than IDNA backward compatibility, should be maintained. That decision was partially
driven by the long period between reviews and the concern that table calculations by others in
the interim could result in unexpected incompatibilities if derived property deﬁnitions were
then changed. See Section 4 for further discussion of these preferences.

[IDNA-Unicode12]

[RFC6452]

, and

3.2.  Review Model Part II: New Code Point Analysis

The second type of review, which is not clearly explained in RFC 5892, is intended to identify
cases in which newly added or recently discovered problematic code points violate the design
assumptions of IDNA, to identify defects in those assumptions, or to identify inconsistencies
(from an IDNA perspective) with Unicode commitments about assignment, properties, and
stability of newly added code points. One example of this type of review was the discovery of
new code points after Unicode 7.0 that were potentially visually equivalent, in the same script, to
previously available code point sequences

[IAB-Unicode7-2015] [IDNA-Unicode7]

.

Because multiple perspectives on Unicode and writing systems are required, this review will not
be successful unless it is done by a team. Finding one all-knowing expert is improbable, and a
single expert is unlikely to produce an adequate analysis. Rather than any single expert being the
sole source of analysis, the designated expert (DE) team needs to understand that there will
always be gaps in their knowledge, to know what they don't know, and to work to ﬁnd the
expertise that each review requires. It is also important that the DE team maintains close contact
with the Area Directors (ADs) and that the ADs remain aware of the team's changing needs,
examining and adjusting the team's membership over time, with periodic reexamination at least
annually. It should also be recognized that, if this review identiﬁes a problem, that problem is
likely to be complex and/or involve multiple trade-oﬀs. Actions to deal with it are likely to be
disruptive (although perhaps not to large communities of users), or to leave security risks
(opportunities for attacks and inadvertent confusion as expected matches do not occur), or to
cause excessive reliance on registries understanding and taking responsibility for what they are
registering
. The latter, while a requirement of IDNA, has often not worked
out well in the past.

[RFC5894] [RegRestr]

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8753

IDNA Unicode Reviews

April 2020

Because resolution of problems identiﬁed by this part of the review may take some time even if
that resolution is to add additional contextual rules or to disallow one or more code points, there
will be cases in which it will be appropriate to publish the results of the algorithmic review and
to provide IANA with corresponding tables, with warnings about code points whose status is
uncertain until there is IETF consensus about how to proceed. The aﬀected code points should be
considered unsafe and identiﬁed as "under review" in the IANA tables until ﬁnal derived
properties are assigned.

4.  IDNA Assumptions and Current Practice

At the time the IDNA2008 documents were written, the assumption was that, if new versions of
Unicode introduced incompatible changes, the Standard would be updated to preserve backward
compatibility for users of IDNA. For most purposes, this would be done by adding to the table of
exceptions associated with Rule G

[RFC5892a]

.

This has not been the practice in the reviews completed subsequent to Unicode 5.2, as discussed
in Section 3. Incompatibilities were identiﬁed in Unicode 6.0
review leading to tables for Unicode 11.0
was made to maintain compatibility with Unicode properties rather than with prior versions of
IDNA.

 and in the cumulative
. In all of those cases, the decision

[IDNA-Unicode11]

[RFC6452]

If an algorithmic review detects changes in Unicode after version 12.0 that would break
compatibility with derived properties associated with prior versions of Unicode or changes that
would preserve compatibility within IDNA at the cost of departing from current Unicode
speciﬁcations, those changes must be captured in documents expected to be published as
Standards Track RFCs so that the IETF can review those changes and maintain a historical
record.

[IDNA-Unicode11]

[IDNA-Unicode12]

The community has now made decisions and updated tables for Unicode 6.0
catch-up work between it and Unicode 11.0
. The decisions made in those cases were driven by
tables for Unicode 12.0
preserving consistency with Unicode and Unicode property changes for reasons most clearly
explained by the IAB
language in RFC 5892 but were also inconsistent with commitments to the registry and user
communities to ensure that IDN labels that were once valid under IDNA2008 would remain
valid, and previously invalid labels would remain invalid, except for those labels that were
invalid because they contained unassigned code points.

, done
, and completed the review and

. These actions were not only at variance with the

[IAB-Unicode-2018]

[RFC6452]

This document restores and clariﬁes that original language and intent: absent extremely strong
evidence on a per-code point basis that preserving the validity status of possible existing (or
prohibited) labels would cause signiﬁcant harm, Unicode changes that would aﬀect IDNA
derived properties are to be reﬂected in IDNA exceptions that preserve the status of those labels.
There is one partial exception to this principle. If the new code point analysis (see Section 3.2)
concludes that some code points or collections of code points should be further analyzed, those

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8753

IDNA Unicode Reviews

April 2020

code points, and labels including them, should be considered unsafe and used only with extreme
caution because the conclusions of the analysis may change their derived property values and
status.

5.  Derived Tables Published by IANA

As discussed above, RFC 5892 speciﬁed that derived property tables be provided via an IANA
registry. Perhaps because most IANA registries are considered normative and authoritative, that
registry has been the source of considerable confusion, including the incorrect assumption that
the absence of published tables for versions of Unicode later than 6.0 meant that IDNA could not
be used with later versions. That position was raised in multiple ways, not all of them consistent,
especially in the ICANN context

[ICANN-LGR-SLA]

.

If the changes speciﬁed in this document are not successful in signiﬁcantly mitigating the
confusion about the status of the tables published by IANA, serious consideration should be
given to eliminating those tables entirely.

6.  Editorial Clariﬁcation to RFC 5892

This section updates RFC 5892 to provide ﬁxes for known applicable errata and omissions. In
particular, veriﬁed RFC Editor Erratum 3312
A.1 in RFC 5892. That clariﬁcation is incorporated below.

 provides a clariﬁcation to Appendix A and

[Err3312]

1.

In Appendix A, add a new paragraph after the paragraph that begins "The code point...". The
new paragraph should read:

For the rule to be evaluated to True for the label, it
every occurrence of the code point in the label; each of those evaluations must
result in True.

 be evaluated separately for

MUST

2.

In Appendix A.1, replace the "Rule Set" by

     Rule Set:
       False;
       If Canonical_Combining_Class(Before(cp)) .eq. Virama
             Then True;
       If cp .eq. \u200C And
              RegExpMatch((Joining_Type:{L,D})(Joining_Type:T)*cp
         (Joining_Type:T)*(Joining_Type:{R,D})) Then True;

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8753

IDNA Unicode Reviews

April 2020

7.  IANA Considerations

, the designated expert is expected to consult additional sources of expertise as needed.

 with appropriate expertise to conduct the review and to supply derived property
Section 5.2 of the Guidelines for Writing IANA Considerations

For the algorithmic review described in Section 3.1, the IESG is to appoint a designated expert
[RFC8126]
tables to IANA. As provided in
[RFC8126]
For the code point review, the expertise will be supplied by an IESG-designated expert team as
discussed in Section 3.2 and Appendix B. In both cases, the experts should draw on the expertise
of other members of the community as needed. In particular, and especially if there is no overlap
of the people holding the various roles, coordination with the IAB-appointed liaison to the
Unicode Consortium will be essential to mitigate possible errors due to confusion.

As discussed in Section 5, IANA has modiﬁed the IDNA tables collection
identifying them clearly as non-normative, so that a "current" or "correct" version of those tables
is not implied, and by pointing to this document for an explanation. IANA has published tables
supplied by the IETF for all Unicode versions through 11.0, retaining all older versions and
making them available. Newer tables will be constructed as speciﬁed in this document and then
made available by IANA. IANA has changed the title of that registry from "IDNA Parameters",
which is misleading, to "IDNA Rules and Derived Property Values".

[IANA-IDNA-Tables]

 by

The "Note" in that registry says:

IDNA does not require that applications and libraries, either for registration/storage or
lookup, support any particular version of Unicode. Instead, they are required to use
derived property values based on calculations associated with whatever version of
Unicode they are using elsewhere in the application or library. For the convenience of
application and library developers and others, the IETF has supplied, and IANA
maintains, derived property tables for several version of Unicode as listed below. It
should be stressed that these are not normative in that, in principle, an application can
do its own calculations and these tables can change as IETF understanding evolves. By
contrast, the list of code points requiring contextual rules and the associated rules are
normative and should be treated as updates to the list in RFC 5892.

As long as the intent is preserved, the text of that note may be changed in the future at IANA's
discretion.

IANA's attention is called to the introduction, in Section 3.2, of a temporary "under review"
category to the PVALID, DISALLOWED, etc., entries in the tables.

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8753

IDNA Unicode Reviews

April 2020

8.  Security Considerations

Applying the procedures described in this document and understanding of the clariﬁcations it
provides should reduce confusion about IDNA requirements. Because past confusion has
provided opportunities for bad behavior, the eﬀect of these changes should improve Internet
security to at least some small extent.

Because of the preference to keep the derived property value stable (as speciﬁed in RFC 5892 and
discussed in Section 4), the algorithm used to calculate those derived properties does change as
explained in Section 3. If these changes are not taken into account, the derived property value
will change, and the implications might have negative consequences, in some cases with security
implications. For example, changes in the calculated derived property value for a code point
from either DISALLOWED to PVALID or from PVALID to DISALLOWED can cause changes in label
interpretation that would be visible and confusing to end users and might enable attacks.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[IANA-IDNA-Tables]

IANA "IDNA Rules and Derived Property Values" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,
assignments/idna-tables>

.

[RFC5892]

[RFC5892a]

[RFC8126]

[Unicode]

,

Faltstrom, P., Ed. "The Unicode Code Points and Internationalized Domain
,
Names for Applications (IDNA)" RFC 5892 DOI 10.17487/RFC5892
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5892>

,
.

, August 2010,

,

Faltstrom, P., Ed. "The Unicode Code Points and Internationalized Domain
Names for Applications (IDNA)" Section 2.7 RFC 5892
www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5892.txt>

, August 2010,

,

.

,

<https://

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

,

.

,

, June

The Unicode Consortium "The Unicode Standard (Current Version)" <http://
www.unicode.org/versions/latest/> The link given will always access the current
version of the Unicode Standard, independent of its version number or date.

.

,

,

[Unicode-properties]

The Unicode Consortium "The Unicode Standard Version 11.0" Section

,

,

3.5

, 2018,

<https://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode11.0.0/>

.

9.2.  Informative References

[Err3312]

RFC Errata Erratum ID 3312 RFC 5892 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid3312>

,

,

,

.

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8753

IDNA Unicode Reviews

April 2020

[IAB-Unicode-2018]

Internet Architecture Board (IAB) "IAB Statement on Identiﬁers and
,

Unicode"
reports-documents/2018-2/iab-statement-on-identiﬁers-and-unicode/>

<https://www.iab.org/documents/correspondence-

, 15 March 2018,

.

[IAB-Unicode7-2015]

Internet Architecture Board (IAB) "IAB Statement on Identiﬁers and
,

, 11 February 2015,

Unicode 7.0.0"
correspondence-reports-documents/2015-2/iab-statement-on-identiﬁers-and-
unicode-7-0-0/>

<https://www.iab.org/documents/

.

[ICANN-LGR-SLA]

Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) "Proposed

,

IANA SLAs for Publishing LGRs/IDN Tables"
www.icann.org/public-comments/proposed-iana-sla-lgr-idn-tables-2019-06-10-
en>

, 10 June 2019,

<https://

.

[IDNA-Unicode7]

Klensin, J. and P. Faltstrom "IDNA Update for Unicode 7.0 and Later
Versions" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-klensin-idna-5892upd-
unicode70-05
idna-5892upd-unicode70-05>

, 8 October 2017,
.

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-klensin-

,

,

,

[IDNA-Unicode11]

Faltstrom, P. "IDNA2008 and Unicode 11.0.0" Work in Progress Internet-

,

,

, 11 March 2019,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/

[IDNA-Unicode12]

Faltstrom, P. "IDNA2008 and Unicode 12.0.0" Work in Progress Internet-

,

,

, 11 March 2019,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/

,
Draft, draft-faltstrom-unicode11-08
draft-faltstrom-unicode11-08>

.

,
Draft, draft-faltstrom-unicode12-00
draft-faltstrom-unicode12-00>

.

[RegRestr]

[RFC1766]

[RFC3282]

[RFC3454]

[RFC3490]

[RFC3491]

,

Klensin, J. and A. Freytag "Internationalized Domain Names in Applications
(IDNA): Registry Restrictions and Recommendations" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-klensin-idna-rfc5891bis-05
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-klensin-idna-rfc5891bis-05>

,
<https://

, 29 August 2019,

,

.

Alvestrand, H. "Tags for the Identiﬁcation of Languages" RFC 1766 DOI
10.17487/RFC1766

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1766>

, March 1995,

,

,

,

.

Alvestrand, H. "Content Language Headers" RFC 3282 DOI 10.17487/RFC3282
May 2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3282>

.

,

,

,

,

Hoﬀman, P. and M. Blanchet "Preparation of Internationalized Strings
("stringprep")" RFC 3454 DOI 10.17487/RFC3454
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3454>

, December 2002,

,

,

.

,

<https://

Faltstrom, P., Hoﬀman, P., and A. Costello "Internationalizing Domain Names in
,
Applications (IDNA)" RFC 3490 DOI 10.17487/RFC3490
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3490>

, March 2003,

<https://

,

.

,

Hoﬀman, P. and M. Blanchet "Nameprep: A Stringprep Proﬁle for
Internationalized Domain Names (IDN)" RFC 3491 DOI 10.17487/RFC3491
March 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3491>

,

,

.

,

,

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8753

IDNA Unicode Reviews

April 2020

[RFC3629]

[RFC4690]

[RFC5646]

[RFC5890]

[RFC5894]

[RFC6452]

Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

,

.

,

Klensin, J., Faltstrom, P., Karp, C., and IAB "Review and Recommendations for
Internationalized Domain Names (IDNs)" RFC 4690 DOI 10.17487/RFC4690
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4690>
September 2006,

,
,

,

,

.

Phillips, A., Ed. and M. Davis, Ed. "Tags for Identifying Languages" BCP 47 RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
5646 DOI 10.17487/RFC5646
rfc5646>

, September 2009,

.

,

,

,

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Deﬁnitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

,

,

.

,

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Background, Explanation, and Rationale" RFC 5894 DOI 10.17487/RFC5894
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5894>

,

,

.

,

Faltstrom, P., Ed. and P. Hoﬀman, Ed. "The Unicode Code Points and
Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA) - Unicode 6.0" RFC
,
6452 DOI 10.17487/RFC6452
rfc6452>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2011,

.

,

,

Appendix A.  Summary of Changes to RFC 5892

, particularly

Other than the editorial correction speciﬁed in Section 6, all of the changes in this document are
concerned with the reviews for new versions of Unicode and with the IANA Considerations in
Section 5.1 of [RFC5892]
Section 5 of [RFC5892]
substantive or merely clariﬁcations may be somewhat in the eye of the beholder, so the list
below should not be assumed to be comprehensive. At a very high level, this document clariﬁes
that two types of review were intended and separates them for clarity. This document also
restores the original (but so far unobserved) default for actions when code point derived
properties change. For this reason, this document eﬀectively replaces
and adds or changes some text so that the replacement makes better sense.

. Whether the changes are

Section 5.1 of [RFC5892]

Changes or clariﬁcations that may be considered important include:

•

Separated the new Unicode version review into two explicit parts and provided for diﬀerent
review methods and, potentially, asynchronous outcomes.

•

Speciﬁed a DE team, not a single designated expert, for the code point review.

•

Eliminated the de facto requirement for the (formerly single) designated expert to be the
same person as the IAB's liaison to the Unicode Consortium, but called out the importance of
coordination.

•

Created the "Status" ﬁeld in the IANA tables to inform the community about speciﬁc
potentially problematic code points. This change creates the ability to add information about

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8753

IDNA Unicode Reviews

April 2020

such code points before IETF review is completed instead of having the review process hold
up the use of the new Unicode version.

•

In part because Unicode is now on a regular one-year cycle rather than producing major and
minor versions as needed, to avoid overloading the IETF's internationalization resources,
and to avoid generating and storing IANA tables for trivial changes (e.g., the single new code
point in Unicode 12.1), the review procedure is applied only to major versions of Unicode
unless exceptional circumstances arise and are identiﬁed.

Appendix B.  Background and Rationale for Expert Review
Procedure for New Code Point Analysis

The expert review procedure for new code point analysis described in Section 3.2 is somewhat
unusual compared to the examples presented in the Guidelines for Writing IANA Considerations
[RFC8126]

. This appendix explains that choice and provides the background for it.

RFC 3629 [RFC3629]

RFC 1766 [RFC1766]

Development of speciﬁcations to support use of languages and writing systems other than
English (and Latin script) -- so-called "internationalization" or "i18n" -- has always been
problematic in the IETF, especially when requirements go beyond simple coding of characters
) or simple identiﬁcation of languages (e.g.,
(e.g.,
earlier
). A good deal of specialized knowledge is required, knowledge that
comes from multiple ﬁelds and that requires multiple perspectives. The work is not obviously
more complex than routing, especially if one assumes that routing work requires a solid
foundation in graph theory or network optimization, or than security and cryptography, but
people working in those areas are drawn to the IETF and people from the ﬁelds that bear on
internationalization typically are not.

RFC 3282 [RFC3282]

 and the

As a result, we have often thought we understood a problem, generated a speciﬁcation or set of
speciﬁcations, but then have been surprised by unanticipated (by the IETF) issues. We then
needed to tune and often revise our speciﬁcation. The language tag work that started with RFC
1766 is a good example of this: broader considerations and requirements led to later work and a
much more complex and ﬁner-grained system

[RFC5646]

.

Work on IDNs further increased the diﬃculties because many of the decisions that led to the
current version of IDNA require understanding the DNS, its constraints, and, to at least some
extent, the commercial market of domain names, including various ICANN eﬀorts.

The net result of these factors is that it is extremely unlikely that the IESG will ever ﬁnd a
designated expert whose knowledge and understanding will include everything that is required.

Consequently, Section 7 and other discussions in this document specify a DE team that is
expected to have the broad perspective, expertise, and access to information and community in
order to review new Unicode versions and to make consensus recommendations that will serve
the Internet well. While we anticipate that the team will have one or more leaders, the structure
of the team diﬀers from the suggestions given in
Considerations [RFC8126]
discretion of the designated expert, nor is the designated expert solely accountable to the

 since neither the team's formation nor its consultation is left to the

Section 5.2 of the Guidelines for Writing IANA

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8753

IDNA Unicode Reviews

April 2020

community. A team that contains multiple perspectives is required, the team members are
accountable as a group, and any nontrivial recommendations require team consensus. This also
diﬀers from the common practice in the IETF of "review teams" from which a single member is
selected to perform a review: the principle for these reviews is team eﬀort.

Acknowledgments

This document was inspired by extensive discussions within the I18N Directorate of the IETF
Applications and Real-Time (ART) area in the ﬁrst quarter of 2019 about sorting out the reviews
for Unicode 11.0 and 12.0. Careful reviews by
resulted in some clariﬁcations.

 and text suggestions from

Joel Halpern

Barry Leiba

Christopher Wood

 for catching some editorial errors that persisted until rather late in
Thanks to
the document's life cycle and to
 for catching and raising a number of questions
during Last Call. Some of the issues they raised have been reﬂected in the document; others did
not appear to be desirable modiﬁcations after further discussion, but the questions were
deﬁnitely worth raising and discussing.

Benjamin Kaduk

Authors' Addresses

John C Klensin
1770 Massachusetts Ave, Ste 322
Cambridge MA 02140
,
United States of America
 +1 617 245 1457
Phone:
 john-ietf@jck.com
Email:

Patrik Fältström
Netnod
Greta Garbos Väg 13
SE-
169 40 Solna
Sweden
Phone:
Email:

 +46 70 6059051
 paf@netnod.se

Klensin & Fältström

Standards Track

Page 13

