Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8943
Standards Track
November 2020
2070-1721
M. Jones
Microsoft

A. Nadalin
Independent

J. Richter
pdv Financial Software GmbH

RFC 8943
Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Tags
for Date

Abstract

The Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR), as speciﬁed in RFC 7049, is a data format
whose design goals include the possibility of extremely small code size, fairly small message size,
and extensibility without the need for version negotiation.

In CBOR, one point of extensibility is the deﬁnition of CBOR tags. RFC 7049 deﬁnes two tags for
time: CBOR tag 0 (date/time string as per RFC 3339) and tag 1 (POSIX "seconds since the epoch").
Since then, additional requirements have become known. This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a CBOR tag
for a date text string (as per RFC 3339) for applications needing a textual date representation
within the Gregorian calendar without a time. It also deﬁnes a CBOR tag for days since the date
1970-01-01 in the Gregorian calendar for applications needing a numeric date representation
without a time. This speciﬁcation is the reference document for IANA registration of the CBOR
tags deﬁned.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8943

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8943

CBOR Tags for Date

November 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Calendar Dates

1.1.1.  Example Date Representations

1.2.  Comparing Dates

1.3.  Comparing Dates and Date/Time Values

2.  IANA Considerations

2.1.  Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Tags Registrations

3.  Security Considerations

4.  References

4.1.  Normative References

4.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)
structured data without a requirement for a pre-agreed schema. RFC 7049 deﬁnes a basic set of
data types, as well as a tagging mechanism that enables extending the set of data types supported
via an IANA registry.

 provides for the interchange of

[RFC7049]

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a CBOR tag for a text string representing a date without a time. The
tagged text string is represented as speciﬁed by the RFC 3339
Per RFC 3339, this represents a date within the Gregorian calendar.

 full-date production.

[RFC3339]

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8943

CBOR Tags for Date

November 2020

This speciﬁcation also deﬁnes a CBOR tag for an integer representing a date without a time. The
tagged integer is an unsigned or negative value indicating the number of days since the
Gregorian calendar date 1970-01-01. As an implementation note, this value has a constant oﬀset
from the Modiﬁed Julian Date value (which is deﬁned by the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory as the number of days since November 17, 1858); this value is the Modiﬁed Julian
Date minus 40587.

Note that since both tags are for dates without times, times of day, time zones, and leap seconds
are not applicable to these values. These tags are both for representations of Gregorian calendar
dates.

1.1.  Calendar Dates

Calendar dates are used for numerous human use cases, such as marking the dates of signiﬁcant
events. For instance, John Lennon was born on October 9, 1940 and died on December 8, 1980.
One such use case is driver's licenses, which typically include a date of birth. The dates used in
this speciﬁcation use the Gregorian calendar, as do those in RFC 3339
and actual times of these events are intentionally not represented in the calendar date.

. The time zones

[RFC3339]

The epoch chosen for the second tag, which represents days since the Gregorian calendar date
1970-01-01, is related to the IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition
1970-01-01T00:00:00Z UTC only insofar as both contain the date 1970-01-01. This should not be
construed as indicating that dates using this tag represent either a speciﬁc time of day and/or
time zone.

 time epoch

[POSIX.1]

The day of the week (Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, etc.) is not explicitly represented in either of
these date formats. However, deterministic algorithms that are beyond the scope of this
speciﬁcation can be used to derive the day of the week in the Gregorian calendar from dates
represented in both of these formats.

1.1.1.  Example Date Representations

This table contains example representations for dates using both tags.

Date

Tag 1004

Tag 100

October 9, 1940

"1940-10-09"

-10676

December 8, 1980

"1980-12-08"

3994

Table 1

1.2.  Comparing Dates

Comparison of dates in full-date format can be accomplished by normal string comparison,
since, by design, the digits representing the date are in ﬁxed format and ordered from most
signiﬁcant to least signiﬁcant. Comparison of numeric dates representing days since 1970-01-01
can be performed by normal integer comparison. Comparison of dates in other formats or using
other calendars require conversions that are beyond the scope of this speciﬁcation.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8943

CBOR Tags for Date

November 2020

Note that diﬀerent dates may correspond to the same moment in time, depending upon the time
zone in which the date was determined. For instance, at many times of the day, a conference call
occurring on a particular date in Japan will simultaneously occur on the previous date in Hawaii;
at many times of the day, Japan's Friday corresponds with Hawaii's Thursday.

1.3.  Comparing Dates and Date/Time Values

Comparing dates with date/time values, which represent a particular moment in time, is beyond
the scope of this speciﬁcation. That said, if a date is augmented with a time zone and time of day,
a speciﬁc date/time value can be determined, and comparing that date/time value to others
becomes possible. For instance, if one were to augment John Lennon's birth date of October 9,
1940 with the time of day and time zone of his birth, then it would be possible to derive a date/
time at which he was born that could be compared with other date/time values.

2.  IANA Considerations

2.1.  Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Tags Registrations

This section registers the following values in the IANA "Concise Binary Object Representation
(CBOR) Tags" registry

[IANA.cbor-tags]

.

1004

Tag:
Data Item:
Semantics:
Reference:

UTF-8 text string
[RFC3339]
RFC 8943

 full-date string

100 (ASCII 'd')

Tag:
Data Item:
Semantics:
Reference:

Unsigned or negative integer
Number of days since the epoch date 1970-01-01
RFC 8943

3.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of RFC 7049 apply; the tags introduced here are not expected to raise
security considerations beyond those.

A date, of course, has signiﬁcant security considerations. These include the exploitation of
ambiguities where the date is security relevant or where the date is used in access control
decisions.

When using a calendar date for decision making (for example, access control), it needs to be
noted that since calendar dates do not represent a speciﬁc point in time, the results of the
evaluation can diﬀer depending upon where the decision is made. For instance, a person may
have reached their 21st birthday in Japan while simultaneously being a day short of their 21st

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8943

CBOR Tags for Date

November 2020

birthday in Hawaii. Similarly, it would be inappropriate to use only a date to trigger certiﬁcate
expiration, since a date corresponds to a range of times worldwide rather than a speciﬁc point in
time that is independent of geographic location.

4.  References

4.1.  Normative References

[RFC3339]

[RFC7049]

Klyne, G. and C. Newman "Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps" RFC
3339 DOI 10.17487/RFC3339
,
rfc3339>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2002,

,

.

Bormann, C. and P. Hoﬀman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
RFC 7049 DOI 10.17487/RFC7049
rfc7049>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2013,

,
.

,

,

4.2.  Informative References

[IANA.cbor-tags]

IANA "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Tags" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/cbor-tags>

.

[POSIX.1]

[TIME-TAGS]

IEEE "The Open Group Base Speciﬁcations Issue 7" 2013 Edition IEEE Std
,
1003.1

<https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799.2013edition>

, 2013,

,

,

.

Bormann, C., Gamari, B., and H. Birkholz "Concise Binary Object Representation
(CBOR) Tags for Time, Duration, and Period" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-bormann-cbor-time-tag-03
, 9 March 2020,
bormann-cbor-time-tag-03>

,
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

Thanks to
text in this speciﬁcation come from

Carsten Bormann

[TIME-TAGS]

.

 for supporting creation of this speciﬁcation. Parts of the explanatory

Henk Birkholz Carsten Bormann Samita
Thanks to these people for reviews of the speciﬁcation:
Chakrabarti Roman Danyliw Linda Dunbar Benjamin Kaduk Erik Kline Warren Kumari Barry
,
Leiba Thiago Macieira Francesca Palombini Michael Richardson Kyle Rose Jim Schaad
,
Juergen Schoenwaelder Éric Vyncke Robert Wilton

Dale Worley
.

, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Michael B. Jones
Microsoft
Email:
URI:

 mbj@microsoft.com
 https://self-issued.info/

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8943

CBOR Tags for Date

November 2020

Anthony Nadalin
Independent
Email:

 nadalin@prodigy.net

Jörg Richter
pdv Financial Software GmbH
 joerg.richter@pdv-fs.de
Email:

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

