Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8968
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
A. Décimo
IRIF, University of Paris-Diderot

D. Schinazi
Google LLC

J. Chroboczek
IRIF, University of Paris-Diderot

RFC 8968
Babel Routing Protocol over Datagram Transport
Layer Security

Abstract

The Babel Routing Protocol does not contain any means to authenticate neighbours or provide
integrity or conﬁdentiality for messages sent between them. This document speciﬁes a
mechanism to ensure these properties using Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8968

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Décimo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8968

Babel over DTLS

January 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Speciﬁcation of Requirements

1.2.  Applicability

2.  Operation of the Protocol

2.1.  DTLS Connection Initiation

2.2.  Protocol Encoding

2.3.  Transmission

2.4.  Reception

2.5.  Neighbour Table Entry

2.6.  Simultaneous Operation of Babel over DTLS and Unprotected Babel on a Node

2.7.  Simultaneous Operation of Babel over DTLS and Unprotected Babel on a Network

3.  Interface Maximum Transmission Unit Issues

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Performance Considerations

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC8966]

The Babel routing protocol
protect messages sent between them. Because of this, an attacker is able to send maliciously
crafted Babel messages that could lead a network to route traﬃc to an attacker or to an under-
resourced target, causing denial of service. This document speciﬁes a mechanism to prevent such
attacks using Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)

 does not contain any means to authenticate neighbours or

.
[RFC6347]

Décimo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8968

Babel over DTLS

January 2021

1.1.  Speciﬁcation of Requirements

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Applicability

The protocol described in this document protects Babel packets with DTLS. As such, it inherits
the features oﬀered by DTLS, notably authentication, integrity, optional replay protection,
conﬁdentiality, and asymmetric keying. It is therefore expected to be applicable in a wide range
of environments.

There exists another mechanism for securing Babel, namely Message Authentication Code (MAC)
authentication for Babel (Babel-MAC)
authentication, integrity, and replay protection with a small number of symmetric keys. A
comparison of Babel security mechanisms and their applicability can be found in

. Babel-MAC only oﬀers basic features, namely

.
[RFC8966]

[RFC8967]

Note that Babel over DTLS provides a single authentication domain, meaning that all nodes that
have the right credentials can convey any and all routing information.

DTLS supports several mechanisms by which nodes can identify themselves and prove
possession of secrets tied to these identities. This document does not prescribe which of these
mechanisms to use; details of identity management are left to deployment proﬁles of Babel over
DTLS.

2.  Operation of the Protocol

Babel over DTLS requires some changes to how Babel operates. First, DTLS is a client-server
protocol, while Babel is a peer-to-peer protocol. Second, DTLS can only protect unicast
communication, while Babel packets can be sent to both unicast and multicast destinations.

2.1.  DTLS Connection Initiation

 act as DTLS servers on a given UDP port and
MUST

Babel over DTLS operates on a diﬀerent port than unencrypted Babel. All Babel over DTLS nodes
MUST
another UDP port, which
DTLS is registered with IANA as the "babel-dtls" port (UDP port 6699, see Section 4), and the port
exchanging unencrypted Babel traﬃc is registered as the "babel" port (UDP port 6696, see
5 of [RFC8966]

 be distinct from the ﬁrst one. The default port for Babel over

 listen for unencrypted Babel traﬃc on

Section

MUST

).

Décimo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8968

Babel over DTLS

January 2021

When a Babel node discovers a new neighbour (generally by receiving an unencrypted multicast
Babel packet), it compares the neighbour's IP address with its own, using network byte ordering.
If a node's address is lower than the recently discovered neighbour's address, it acts as a client
and connects to the neighbour. In other words, the node with the lowest address is the DTLS
client for this pairwise relationship. As an example, fe80::1:2 is considered lower than fe80::2:1.

The node acting as DTLS client initiates its DTLS connection from an ephemeral UDP port. Nodes
 ensure that new client DTLS connections use diﬀerent ephemeral ports from recently
SHOULD
used connections to allow servers to diﬀerentiate between the new and old DTLS connections.
Alternatively, nodes could use DTLS connection identiﬁers
mechanism to distinguish between connections.

 as a higher-entropy

[DTLS-CID]

MUST

MUST

MUST

 authenticate servers and servers

 verify that the source IP address is either

When a node receives a new DTLS connection, it
an IPv6 link-local address or an IPv4 address belonging to the local network; if it is neither, it
 reject the connection. Nodes use mutual authentication (authenticating both client and
MUST
server); clients
Implementations
node fails to authenticate its peer against its local policy, it
guidance given in
only negotiate DTLS version 1.2 or higher. Nodes
attackers from replaying stale information. Nodes
reordered by more than two IHU (I Heard You) intervals, to avoid letting attackers make stale
information last longer. If a node receives a new DTLS connection from a neighbour to whom it
already has a connection, the node
the handshake of the new one and validated the identity of the peer.

 support authenticating peers against a local store of credentials. If either
 abort the DTLS handshake. The
MUST

MUST
 be followed to avoid attacks on DTLS. Additionally, nodes

 use DTLS replay protection to prevent
 drop packets that have been

 discard the older connection until it has completed

 authenticate clients.

[BCP195] MUST

MUST NOT

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

2.2.  Protocol Encoding

Babel over DTLS sends all unicast Babel packets protected by DTLS. The entire Babel packet, from
the Magic byte at the start of the Babel header to the last byte of the Babel packet trailer, is sent
protected by DTLS.

2.3.  Transmission

MUST NOT

 send any TLVs over the unprotected

When sending packets, Babel over DTLS nodes
"babel" port, with the exception of Hello TLVs without the Unicast ﬂag set. Babel over DTLS nodes
 send any unprotected unicast packets. This ensures the conﬁdentiality of the
MUST NOT
information sent in Babel packets (e.g., the network topology) by only sending it encrypted by
DTLS. Unless some out-of-band neighbour discovery mechanism is available, nodes
periodically send unprotected Multicast Hellos to ensure discovery of new neighbours. In order
to maintain bidirectional reachability, nodes can either rely entirely on unprotected Multicast
Hellos, or send protected Unicast Hellos in addition to the Multicast Hellos.

SHOULD

Since Babel over DTLS only protects unicast packets, implementors may implement Babel over
DTLS by modifying an implementation of Babel without DTLS support and replacing any TLV
previously sent over multicast with a separate TLV sent over unicast for each neighbour. TLVs

Décimo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8968

Babel over DTLS

January 2021

previously sent over multicast can be replaced with the same contents over unicast, with the
exception of Hellos as described above. Some implementations could also change the contents of
IHU TLVs when converting to unicast in order to remove redundant information.

2.4.  Reception

Babel over DTLS nodes can receive Babel packets either protected over a DTLS connection or
unprotected directly over the "babel" port. To ensure the security properties of this mechanism,
 silently ignore any unprotected packet
unprotected packets are treated diﬀerently. Nodes
sent over unicast. When parsing an unprotected packet, a node
 silently ignore all TLVs that
MUST
 also silently ignore any unprotected Hello with the Unicast ﬂag
are not of type Hello. Nodes
MUST
set. Note that receiving an unprotected packet can still be used to discover new neighbours, even
when all TLVs in that packet are silently ignored.

MUST

2.5.  Neighbour Table Entry

RECOMMENDED

 for nodes to associate the state of their DTLS connection with their

It is
neighbour table. When a neighbour entry is ﬂushed from the neighbour table (
 be discarded. The node
[RFC8966]
close_notify alert to the neighbour if it believes the link is still viable.

), its associated DTLS state

SHOULD

SHOULD

 send a DTLS

Appendix A of

2.6.  Simultaneous Operation of Babel over DTLS and Unprotected Babel on
a Node

MAY

MUST

 ensure that it runs them on separate interfaces, as the security properties of

 implement both Babel over DTLS and unprotected Babel. Additionally, a
 simultaneously run both Babel over DTLS and unprotected Babel. However, a node

Implementations
node
MAY
running both
Babel over DTLS rely on ignoring unprotected Babel packets (other than Multicast Hellos). An
implementation
 oﬀer conﬁguration options to allow unprotected Babel on some interfaces
but not others, which eﬀectively gives nodes on that interface the same access as authenticated
nodes; however, this
SHOULD NOT
nodes at a lower layer (e.g., IPsec).

 be done unless that interface has a mechanism to authenticate

MAY

2.7.  Simultaneous Operation of Babel over DTLS and Unprotected Babel on
a Network

If Babel over DTLS and unprotected Babel are both operated on the same network, the Babel
over DTLS implementation will receive unprotected Multicast Hellos and attempt to initiate a
DTLS connection. These connection attempts can be sent to nodes that only run unprotected
Babel, who will not respond. Babel over DTLS implementations
SHOULD
DTLS connection attempts to avoid causing undue load on the network.

 therefore rate-limit their

Décimo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8968

Babel over DTLS

January 2021

3.  Interface Maximum Transmission Unit Issues

Compared to unprotected Babel, DTLS adds header, authentication tag, and possibly block-size
padding overhead to every packet. This reduces the size of the Babel payload that can be carried.
This document does not relax the packet size requirements in
recommends that DTLS overhead be taken into account when computing maximum packet size.

Section 4 of [RFC8966]

 but

 compute the overhead of DTLS depending on the ciphersuites in
SHOULD
 send Babel packets larger than the interface maximum transmission unit

More precisely, nodes
use and
SHOULD NOT
(MTU) minus the overhead of IP, UDP, and DTLS. Nodes
 send Babel packets larger than
the attached interface's MTU adjusted for known lower-layer headers (at least UDP and IP) or 512
octets, whichever is larger, but not exceeding 216 - 1 adjusted for lower-layer headers. Every
Babel speaker
adjusted for UDP and IP headers or 512 octets, whichever is larger. Note that this requirement on
reception does not take into account the overhead of DTLS because the peer may not have the
ability to compute the overhead of DTLS, and the packet may be fragmented by lower layers.

 be able to receive packets that are as large as any attached interface's MTU

MUST NOT

MUST

Note that distinct DTLS connections can use diﬀerent ciphers, which can have diﬀerent amounts
of per-packet overhead. Therefore, the MTU to one neighbour can be diﬀerent from the MTU to
another neighbour on the same link.

4.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered a UDP port number, called "babel-dtls", for use by Babel over DTLS:

Service Name:

babel-dtls

Port Number:

6699

Transport Protocols:

UDP only

Description:

Babel Routing Protocol over DTLS

Assignee:

IESG, iesg@ietf.org

Contact:

IETF Chair, chair@ietf.org

Reference:

RFC 8968

Service Code:

None

5.  Security Considerations

A malicious client might attempt to perform a high number of DTLS handshakes with a server.
As the clients are not uniquely identiﬁed by the protocol until the handshake completes and can
be obfuscated with IPv6 temporary addresses, a server needs to mitigate the impact of such an
attack. Note that attackers might attempt to keep in-progress handshakes open for as long as

Décimo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8968

Babel over DTLS

January 2021

possible by using variants on the attack commonly known as Slowloris
these attacks might involve limiting the rate of handshakes from a given subnet or more
advanced denial of service avoidance techniques beyond the scope of this document.

[SLOWLORIS]

. Mitigating

Babel over DTLS allows sending Multicast Hellos unprotected; attackers can therefore tamper
with them. For example, an attacker could send erroneous values for the Seqno and Interval
ﬁelds, causing bidirectional reachability detection to fail. While implementations
Multicast Hellos for link quality estimation, they
prevent this class of denial-of-service attack.

 also emit protected Unicast Hellos to

SHOULD

MAY

 use

 discard the DTLS state associated with a neighbour after a ﬁnite time of not receiving valid

While DTLS provides protection against an attacker that replays valid packets, DTLS is not able to
detect when an active on-path attacker intercepts valid packets and resends them at a later time.
This attack could be used to make a node believe it has bidirectional reachability to a neighbour
even though that neighbour has disconnected from the network. To prevent this attack, nodes
MUST
DTLS packets. This can be implemented by, for example, discarding a neighbour's DTLS state
when its associated IHU timer ﬁres. Note that relying solely on the receipt of Hellos is not
suﬃcient as Multicast Hellos are sent unprotected. Additionally, an attacker could save some
packets and replay them later in hopes of propagating stale routing information at a later time.
This can be mitigated by discarding received packets that have been reordered by more than two
IHU intervals.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[BCP195]

[RFC2119]

[RFC6347]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8966]

Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp195>

, May 2015,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Rescorla, E. and N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
, January 2012,
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc6347>

,
.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Chroboczek, J. and D. Schinazi "The Babel Routing Protocol" RFC 8966 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8966>
10.17487/RFC8966

, January 2021,

,

,

,

6.2.  Informative References

Décimo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8968

Babel over DTLS

January 2021

[DTLS-CID]

[RFC7250]

[RFC7918]

[RFC7924]

[RFC8094]

[RFC8967]

[SLOWLORIS]

Rescorla, E., Tschofenig, H., and T. Fossati "Connection Identiﬁers for DTLS 1.2"
,
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-dtls-connection-id-08
, 2 November
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-tls-dtls-connection-id-08>
2020,
.

,

,

Wouters, P., Ed., Tschofenig, H., Ed., Gilmore, J., Weiler, S., and T. Kivinen "Using
Raw Public Keys in Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 7250 DOI 10.17487/RFC7250
<https://
,
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7250>

, June 2014,

,

,

Langley, A., Modadugu, N., and B. Moeller "Transport Layer Security (TLS) False
Start" RFC 7918 DOI 10.17487/RFC7918
editor.org/info/rfc7918>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2016,

,

,

.

,

Santesson, S. and H. Tschofenig "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Cached
Information Extension" RFC 7924 DOI 10.17487/RFC7924
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7924>

, July 2016,

,
.

,

,

<https://

Reddy, T., Wing, D., and P. Patil "DNS over Datagram Transport Layer Security
(DTLS)" RFC 8094 DOI 10.17487/RFC8094
editor.org/info/rfc8094>

<https://www.rfc-

, February 2017,

,

,

.

,

Dô, C., Kolodziejak, W., and J. Chroboczek "MAC Authentication for the Babel
Routing Protocol" RFC 8967 DOI 10.17487/RFC8967
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8967>

, January 2021,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Hansen, R. "Slowloris HTTP DoS"
web/20150315054838/http://ha.ckers.org/slowloris/>

, June 2009,

,

.

<https://web.archive.org/

Appendix A.  Performance Considerations

 or the Cached Information Extension

To reduce the number of octets taken by the DTLS handshake, especially the size of the certiﬁcate
in the ServerHello (which can be several kilobytes), Babel peers can use raw public keys
[RFC7250]
avoids transmitting the server's certiﬁcate and certiﬁcate chain if the client has cached that
information from a previous TLS handshake. TLS False Start
allowing the TLS second ﬂight of messages (ChangeCipherSpec) to also contain the (encrypted)
Babel packet.

. The Cached Information Extension

 can reduce round trips by

[RFC7918]

[RFC7924]

Acknowledgments

,

Roman Danyliw Donald Eastlake Thomas Fossati Benjamin

The authors would like to thank
Kaduk Gabriel Kerneis Mirja Kühlewind Antoni Przygienda Henning Rogge Dan Romascanu
Barbara Stark Markus Stenberg Dave Taht Martin Thomson Sean Turner
Vigoureux
were inspired from the ones for DNS over DTLS

 for their input and contributions. The performance considerations in this document
.
[RFC8094]

,
, and

Martin

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Décimo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8968

Babel over DTLS

January 2021

Authors' Addresses

Antonin Décimo
IRIF, University of Paris-Diderot
Paris
France
Email:

 antonin.decimo@gmail.com

David Schinazi
Google LLC
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

,

 dschinazi.ietf@gmail.com

Juliusz Chroboczek
IRIF, University of Paris-Diderot
Case 7014
75205 Paris CEDEX 13
France
Email:

 jch@irif.fr

Décimo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

