Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8883
Standards Track
September 2020
2070-1721
T. Herbert
Intel

RFC 8883
ICMPv6 Errors for Discarding Packets Due to
Processing Limits

Abstract

Network nodes may discard packets if they are unable to process protocol headers of packets due
to processing constraints or limits. When such packets are dropped, the sender receives no
indication, so it cannot take action to address the cause of discarded packets. This speciﬁcation
deﬁnes several new ICMPv6 errors that can be sent by a node that discards packets because it is
unable to process the protocol headers. A node that receives such an ICMPv6 error may use the
information to diagnose packet loss and may modify what it sends in future packets to avoid
subsequent packet discards.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8883

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Extension Header Limits

1.2.  Aggregate Header Limits

1.3.  Nonconformant Packet Discard

1.4.  Terminology

2.  ICMPv6 Errors for Extension Header Limits

2.1.  Format

2.2.  Unrecognized Next Header Type Encountered by Intermediate Node (Code 5)

2.3.  Extension Header Too Big (Code 6)

2.4.  Extension Header Chain Too Long (Code 7)

2.5.  Too Many Extension Headers (Code 8)

2.6.  Too Many Options in Extension Header (Code 9)

2.7.  Option Too Big (Code 10)

3.  ICMPv6 Error for Aggregate Header Limits

3.1.  Format

3.2.  Usage

4.  Operation

4.1.  Priority of Reporting

4.2.  Host Response

5.  Applicability and Use Cases

5.1.  Reliability of ICMP

5.2.  Processing Limits

5.2.1.  Long Headers and Header Chains

5.2.2.  At End Hosts

5.2.3.  At Intermediate Nodes

6.  Security Considerations

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Parameter Problem Codes

7.2.  Destination Unreachable Codes

7.3.  ICMP Extension Object Classes and Class Sub-types

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

This document speciﬁes several new ICMPv6 errors that can be sent when a node discards a
packet due to it being unable to process the necessary protocol headers because of processing
constraints or limits. New ICMPv6 code points are deﬁned to supplement those deﬁned in
[RFC4443]
used when the aggregate protocol headers in a packet exceed the processing limits of a node.

. Six of the errors are speciﬁc to the processing of extension headers; another error is

1.1.  Extension Header Limits

. Extension headers are placed between the IPv6 header and the upper-layer header in

In IPv6, optional internet-layer information is carried in one or more IPv6 extension headers
[RFC8200]
a packet. The term "header chain" refers collectively to the IPv6 header, extension headers, and
upper-layer headers occurring in a packet. Individual extension headers may have a maximum
length of 2048 octets and must ﬁt into a single packet. Destination Options and Hop-by-Hop
Options contain a list of options in type-length-value (TLV) format. Each option includes a length
of the data ﬁeld in octets: the minimum size of an option (non-pad type) is two octets, and the
maximum size is 257 octets. The number of options in an extension header is only limited by the
length of the extension header and the Path MTU from the source to the destination. Options may
be skipped over by a receiver if they are unknown and the Option Type indicates to skip (ﬁrst
two high order bits are 00).

[RFC8200]

, except for Hop-by-Hop Options, extension headers are not examined or processed

Per
by intermediate nodes. However, in deployed networks, many intermediate nodes do examine
extension headers for various purposes. For instance, a node may examine all extension headers
to locate the transport header of a packet in order to implement transport-layer ﬁltering or to
track connections to implement a stateful ﬁrewall.

Destination hosts are expected to process all extension headers and options in Hop-by-Hop and
Destination Options.

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

[RFC7045]

Due to the variable lengths, high maximum lengths, or potential for a denial-of-service attack of
extension headers, many devices impose operational limits on extension headers in packets they
process.
because of unrecognized extension headers.
 discusses limits that may be applied to
the number of options in Hop-by-Hop Options or Destination Options extension headers. Both
intermediate nodes and end hosts may apply limits to extension header processing. When a limit
is exceeded, the typical behavior is to silently discard the packet.

 discusses the requirements of intermediate nodes that discard packets

[RFC8504]

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes six Parameter Problem codes that may be sent by a node that discards
a packet due to the processing limits of extension headers being exceeded. The information in
these ICMPv6 errors may be used for diagnostics to determine why packets are being dropped.
Additionally, a source node that receives these ICMPv6 errors may be able to modify its use of
extension headers in subsequent packets sent to the destination in order to avoid further
occurrences of packets being discarded.

1.2.  Aggregate Header Limits

Some hardware devices implement a parsing buﬀer of a ﬁxed size to process packets. The
parsing buﬀer is expected to contain all the headers (often up to a transport-layer header for
ﬁltering) that a device needs to examine. If the aggregate length of headers in a packet exceeds
the size of the parsing buﬀer, a device will either discard the packet or defer processing to a
software slow path. In any case, no indication of a problem is sent back to the sender.

This document deﬁnes one code for ICMPv6 Destination Unreachable that is sent by a node that
is unable to process the headers of a packet due to the aggregate size of the packet headers
exceeding a processing limit. The information in this ICMPv6 error may be used for diagnostics
to determine why packets are being dropped. Additionally, a source node that receives this
ICMPv6 error may be able to modify the headers used in subsequent packets to try to avoid
further occurrences of packets being discarded.

1.3.  Nonconformant Packet Discard

The ICMP errors deﬁned in this speciﬁcation may be applicable to scenarios in which a node is
dropping packets outside the auspices of any standard speciﬁcation. For instance, an
intermediate node might send a "Headers too long" code in a case where it drops a packet
because it is unable to parse deeply enough to extract the transport-layer information needed for
packet ﬁltering. Such behavior might be considered nonconformant (with respect to
for instance).

,
[RFC8200]

This speciﬁcation does not advocate behaviors that might be considered nonconformant.
However, packet discard does occur in real deployments, and the intent of this speciﬁcation is to
provide visibility as to why packets are being discarded. In the spirit that providing some reason
is better than a silent drop, the sending of ICMP errors is
node might be discarding packets per a nonconformant behavior.

 even in cases where a

RECOMMENDED

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

1.4.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  ICMPv6 Errors for Extension Header Limits

Six new codes are deﬁned for the Parameter Problem type.

2.1.  Format

The format of the ICMPv6 Parameter Problem message
exceeded error is:

[RFC4443]

 for an extension header limit

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |     Code      |          Checksum             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            Pointer                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
|                    As much of the invoking packet             |
+               as possible without the ICMPv6 packet           +
|              exceeding the minimum IPv6 MTU [RFC8200]         |

IPv6 Header Fields:

Destination Address:

Copied from the Source Address ﬁeld of the invoking packet.

ICMPv6 Fields:

Type:
4

Code:

(Parameter Problem type)

(pertinent to this speciﬁcation)

5

6

7

8

Unrecognized Next Header type encountered by intermediate node

Extension header too big

Extension header chain too long

Too many extension headers

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

9

Too many options in extension header

10

Option too big

Table 1

Pointer:

Identiﬁes the octet oﬀset within the invoking packet where the problem occurred.

The pointer will point beyond the end of the IPv6 packet if the ﬁeld exceeding the limit is
beyond what can ﬁt in the maximum size of an ICMPv6 error message. If the pointer is
used as an oﬀset to read the data in the invoking packet, then a node
that the pointer value is less than the length of the invoking packet data.

 ﬁrst validate

MUST

2.2.  Unrecognized Next Header Type Encountered by Intermediate Node
(Code 5)

SHOULD

This code
 be sent by an intermediate node that discards a packet because it encounters a
Next Header type that is unknown in its examination. The ICMPv6 Pointer ﬁeld is set to the oﬀset
of the unrecognized Next Header value within the original packet.

Note that this code is sent by intermediate nodes and
If a ﬁnal destination node observes an unrecognized header, then it
Parameter Problem message with an ICMP Code value of 1 ("unrecognized Next Header type
encountered") as speciﬁed in

 send an ICMP

SHOULD NOT

[RFC8200]

 be sent by a ﬁnal destination.

SHOULD

.

2.3.  Extension Header Too Big (Code 6)

An ICMPv6 Parameter Problem with code for "Extension header too big"
 be sent when a
node discards a packet because the size of an extension header exceeds its processing limit. The
ICMPv6 Pointer ﬁeld is set to the oﬀset of the ﬁrst octet in the extension header that exceeds the
limit.

SHOULD

2.4.  Extension Header Chain Too Long (Code 7)

An ICMPv6 Parameter Problem with code for "Extension header chain too long"
when a node discards a packet with an extension header chain that exceeds a limit on the total
size in octets of the header chain. The ICMPv6 Pointer is set to the ﬁrst octet beyond the limit.

SHOULD

 be sent

2.5.  Too Many Extension Headers (Code 8)

An ICMPv6 Parameter Problem with code for "Too many extension headers"
when a node discards a packet with an extension header chain that exceeds a limit on the
number of extension headers in the chain. The ICMPv6 Pointer is set to the oﬀset of the ﬁrst octet
of the ﬁrst extension header that is beyond the limit.

 be sent

SHOULD

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

2.6.  Too Many Options in Extension Header (Code 9)

An ICMPv6 Parameter Problem with code for "Too many options in extension header"
SHOULD
sent when a node discards a packet with an extension header that has a number of options that
exceeds the processing limits of the node. This code is applicable for Destination Options and
Hop-by-Hop Options. The ICMPv6 Pointer ﬁeld is set to the ﬁrst octet of the ﬁrst option that
exceeds the limit.

 be

2.7.  Option Too Big (Code 10)

An ICMPv6 Parameter Problem with code for "Option too big" is sent in two diﬀerent cases: when
the length of an individual Hop-by-Hop or Destination Option exceeds a limit, or when the length
or number of consecutive Hop-by-Hop or Destination padding options exceeds a limit. In a case
where the length of an option exceeds a processing limit, the ICMPv6 Pointer ﬁeld is set to the
oﬀset of the ﬁrst octet of the option that exceeds the limit. In cases where the length or number
of padding options exceeds a limit, the ICMPv6 Pointer ﬁeld is set to the oﬀset of the ﬁrst octet of
the padding option that exceeds the limit.

Possible limits related to padding include:

•

The number of consecutive PAD1 options in Destination Options or Hop-by-Hop Options is
limited to seven octets

[RFC8504]

.

•

The length of PADN options in Destination Options or Hop-by-Hop Options is limited seven
octets

[RFC8504]

.

•

The aggregate length of a set of consecutive PAD1 or PADN options in Destination Options or
Hop-by-Hop Options is limited to seven octets.

3.  ICMPv6 Error for Aggregate Header Limits

One code is deﬁned for the Destination Unreachable type for aggregate header limits.

This ICMP error may be applied to other headers in a packet than just the IPv6 header or IPv6
extension headers. Therefore, a Destination Unreachable type with a multi-part ICMPv6 message
format is used in lieu of the Parameter Problem type, which only indicates errors concerning
IPv6 headers.

3.1.  Format

The error for aggregate header limits employs a multi-part ICMPv6 message format as deﬁned in
[RFC4884]
. The extension object class "Extended Information" is deﬁned to contain objects for
ancillary information pertaining to an ICMP Destination Unreachable error. Within this object
class, the sub-type "Pointer" is deﬁned, which contains a Pointer ﬁeld with similar semantics to
the Pointer ﬁeld in ICMP Parameter Problem errors.

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

The format of the ICMPv6 message for an aggregate header limit exceeded is:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
|     Type      |     Code      |          Checksum             | |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ I
|    Length     |                  Unused                       | C
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ M
|                                                               | P
~                As much of the invoking packet                 ~
|              as possible without the ICMPv6 packet            |
|             exceeding the minimum IPv6 MTU [RFC8200]          |/
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+/
|Version|       Reserved        |           Checksum            |\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ E
|             Length            |   Class-Num   |   C-Type      | X
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ T
|                            Pointer                            | |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+/

IPv6 Header Fields:

Destination Address:

Copied from the Source Address ﬁeld of the invoking packet.

ICMPv6 Fields:

Type:
1 -

Destination Unreachable

Code: (pertinent to this speciﬁcation)

8 -

Headers too long

Length:

Length of the padded invoking packet data measured in 64-bit words. The ICMP extension
structure immediately follows the padded invoking packet data.

Invoking Packet:

Contains as much of the invoking packet as possible without the ICMPv6 packet exceeding
 be zero padded to the nearest 64-
the minimum IPv6 MTU. The invoking packet data
bit boundary
invoking packet data

. If the original invoking packet did not contain 128 octets, the

 be zero padded to 128 octets.

[RFC4884]

MUST

MUST

ICMP Extension Fields:

Version:
2 -

per

[RFC4884]

Reserved:
0

Checksum:

The one's complement checksum of the ICMP extension

[RFC4884]

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

Length:
8 -

length of the object header and Pointer ﬁeld

Class-Num:

4 -

Extended Information

C-Type:
1 -

Pointer

Pointer:

Identiﬁes the octet oﬀset within the invoking packet where a limit was exceeded.

The pointer will point beyond the end of the invoking packet data if the ﬁeld exceeding the
limit is beyond what can ﬁt in the maximum size of an ICMPv6 error message with the
ICMP extension. If the pointer is used as an oﬀset to read the data in the invoking packet,
then a node
invoking packet data.

 ﬁrst validate that the pointer value is less than the length of the

MUST

3.2.  Usage

An ICMPv6 Destination Unreachable error with code for "Headers too long"
when a node discards a packet because the aggregate length of the headers in the packet exceeds
the processing limits of the node. The Pointer in the extended ICMPv6 structure is set to the oﬀset
of the ﬁrst octet that exceeds the limit.

 be sent

SHOULD

This error is sent in response to a node dropping a packet because the aggregate header chain
exceeds the processing limits of a node. The aggregate header chain may be composed of
protocol headers other than an IPv6 header and IPv6 extension headers. For instance, in the case
of a node parsing a UDP encapsulation protocol, the encapsulating UDP header would be
considered to be in the aggregate header chain.

As noted in Section 4.1, the ICMPv6 Destination Unreachable error with code for "Headers too
long" has the lowest precedence of the ICMP errors discussed in this speciﬁcation. If a packet
contains an error corresponding to a Parameter Problem code, then a node
 send the
Parameter Problem error instead of sending the ICMPv6 Destination Unreachable error with
code for "Headers too long".

SHOULD

4.  Operation

Nodes that send or receive ICMPv6 errors due to header processing limits
ICMPv6 processing as speciﬁed in

.
[RFC4443]

MUST

 comply with

4.1.  Priority of Reporting

More than one ICMPv6 error may be applicable to report for a packet. For instance, the number
of extension headers in a packet might exceed a limit, and the aggregate length of protocol
headers might also exceed a limit. Only one ICMPv6 error
 be sent for a packet, so a
priority is deﬁned to determine which error to report.

SHOULD

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

The
RECOMMENDED
highest to lowest priority:

 reporting priority of ICMPv6 errors for processing limits is listed from

1.

Existing ICMP errors deﬁned in

[RFC4443]

.

2.

"Unrecognized Next Header type encountered by intermediate node"

3.

"Extension header too big"

4.

"Option too big" for length or number of consecutive padding options exceeding a limit.

5.

"Option too big" for the length of an option exceeding a limit.

6.

"Too many options in an extension header"

7.

"Extension header chain too long" headers exceeding a limit.

8.

"Too many extension headers"

9.

"Headers too long"

4.2.  Host Response

When a source host receives an ICMPv6 error for a processing limit being exceeded, it
verify the ICMPv6 error is valid and take appropriate action as suggested below.

SHOULD

The general validations for ICMP as described in
ICMP data
the original packet. Other validation checks that are speciﬁc to the upper layers may be
performed and are out of the scope of this speciﬁcation.

 be validated to match the upper-layer process or connection that generated

 are applicable. The packet in the

[RFC4443]

SHOULD

SHOULD

The ICMPv6 error
of the error, including the addresses and the oﬀending extension header or data, should be
retained. This, for instance, would be useful for debugging when a node is misconﬁgured and
unexpectedly discarding packets or when a new extension header is being deployed.

 be logged with suﬃcient detail for debugging packet loss. The details

MAY

A host
occurrences of the same error.

 modify its usage of protocol headers in subsequent packets to avoid repeated

For ICMPv6 errors caused by extension header limits being exceeded:

•

SHOULD

 be reported to an application if the application enabled extension headers

An error
for its traﬃc. In response, the application may terminate communications if extension
headers are required, stop using extension headers in packets to the destination indicated by
the ICMPv6 error, or attempt to modify its use of headers or extension headers to avoid
further packet discards.

•

SHOULD

 take appropriate action if it is creating packets with extension

A host system
headers on behalf of the application. If the oﬀending extension header is not required for
communication, the host may either stop sending it or otherwise modify its use in
subsequent packets sent to the destination indicated in the ICMPv6 error.

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

5.  Applicability and Use Cases

5.1.  Reliability of ICMP

ICMP is fundamentally an unreliable protocol and, in real deployment, it may consistently fail
over some paths. As with any other use of ICMP, it is assumed that the errors deﬁned in this
document are only the best eﬀort to be delivered. No protocol should be implemented that relies
on reliable delivery of ICMP messages. If necessary, alternative or additional mechanisms may be
employed to augment the processes used to deduce the reason that packets are being discarded.
For instance, ICMP error messages may be correlated with information attained through
Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery (PLPMTUD)
[RFC8305]
speciﬁcation.

. Details of the interaction with alternative mechanisms are out of scope of this

 or Happy Eyeballs for IPv6

[RFC4821]

5.2.  Processing Limits

This section discusses the trends and motivations of processing limits that warrant ICMP errors.

5.2.1.  Long Headers and Header Chains

The trend towards longer and more complex headers and header chains needing to be processed
by end nodes, as well as intermediate nodes, is driven by:

•

Increasing prevalence of deep packet inspection in middleboxes. In particular, many
intermediate nodes now parse network-layer encapsulation protocols or transport-layer
protocols.

•

Deployment of routing headers. For instance,
that includes a list of IPv6 addresses which may consume a considerable number of bytes.

 deﬁnes an extension header format

[RFC8754]

•

Development of in situ OAM headers that allow a rich set of measurements to be gathered in
the data path at the cost of additional header overhead, which may be signiﬁcant
IPV6]

[OAM-

.

•

Other emerging use cases of Hop-by-Hop and Destination Options.

5.2.2.  At End Hosts

End hosts may implement limits on processing extension headers as described in
implementations are usually software stacks that typically don't have inherent processing
limitations. Limits imposed by a software stack are more likely to be for denial-of-service
mitigation or performance.

[RFC8504]

. Host

5.2.3.  At Intermediate Nodes

Hardware devices that process packet headers may have limits as to how many headers or bytes
of headers they can process. For instance, a middlebox hardware implementation might have a
parsing buﬀer that contains some number of bytes of packet headers to process. Parsing buﬀers
typically have a ﬁxed size such as 64, 128, or 256 bytes. In addition, hardware implementations

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

(and some software implementations) often don't have loop constructs. Processing of a TLV list
might be implemented as an unrolled loop so that the number of TLVs that can be processed is
limited.

6.  Security Considerations

The security considerations for ICMPv6 described in
described in this document

MAY

 be ﬁltered by ﬁrewalls in accordance with

[RFC4890]
.

[RFC4443]

 are applicable. The ICMP errors

In some circumstances, the sending of ICMP errors might conceptually be exploited as a means to
covertly deduce the processing capabilities of nodes. Accordingly, an implementation
allow a conﬁgurable policy to withhold sending of the ICMP errors described in this speciﬁcation
in environments where the security of ICMP errors is a concern.

SHOULD

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Parameter Problem Codes

IANA has assigned the following codes in the "Type 4 - Parameter Problem" registry within the
ICMPv6 Parameters registry

[IANA-ICMP]

:

Code Name

5

6

7

8

9

Unrecognized Next Header type encountered by intermediate node

Extension header too big

Extension header chain too long

Too many extension headers

Too many options in extension header

10

Option too big

Table 2

7.2.  Destination Unreachable Codes

IANA has assigned the following code in the "Type 1 - Destination Unreachable" registry within
the ICMPv6 Parameters registry

[IANA-ICMP]
:

Code

Name

8

Table 3

Headers too long

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

7.3.  ICMP Extension Object Classes and Class Sub-types

IANA has assigned the following Class value in the "ICMP Extension Object Classes and Class Sub-
types" registry within the ICMP Parameters registry

[IANA-ICMPEXT]
:

Class Value

Class Name

4

Table 4

Extended Information

IANA has created a sub-type registry for the "Extended Information" ICMP extension object class.
The registration procedure for this registry is "Standards Action". The sub-type value of 0 is
reserved; values greater than zero may be assigned.

IANA has assigned the following sub-type within the "Sub-types - Class 4 - Extended Information"
registry within the ICMP Parameters registry:

Value

Description

1

Table 5

Pointer

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[IANA-ICMP]

,

IANA "Internet Control Message Protocol version 6 (ICMPv6) Parameters"
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/icmpv6-parameters/>

.

,

[IANA-ICMPEXT]

IANA "Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) Parameters" <https://

,

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC4443]

[RFC4884]

www.iana.org/assignments/icmp-parameters/>

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Conta, A., Deering, S., and M. Gupta, Ed. "Internet Control Message Protocol
(ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD 89 RFC
,
4443 DOI 10.17487/RFC4443
rfc4443>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2006,

,

.

,

Bonica, R., Gan, D., Tappan, D., and C. Pignataro "Extended ICMP to Support
,
Multi-Part Messages" RFC 4884 DOI 10.17487/RFC4884
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4884>

, April 2007,

,

.

,

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

[RFC7045]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

Carpenter, B. and S. Jiang "Transmission and Processing of IPv6 Extension
Headers" RFC 7045 DOI 10.17487/RFC7045
editor.org/info/rfc7045>

, December 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Deering, S. and R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

, July 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

8.2.  Informative References

[OAM-IPV6]

[RFC4821]

[RFC4890]

[RFC8305]

[RFC8504]

[RFC8754]

Bhandari, S., Brockners, F., Pignataro, C., Gredler, H., Leddy, J., Youell, S., Mizrahi,
T., Kﬁr, A., Gafni, B., Lapukhov, P., Spiegel, M., Krishnan, S., Asati, R., and M.
Smith "In-situ OAM IPv6 Options" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
ippm-ioam-ipv6-options-03
ietf-ippm-ioam-ipv6-options-03>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-

, 18 September 2020,

,

,

,

.

Mathis, M. and J. Heﬀner "Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery" RFC 4821
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4821

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4821>

, March 2007,

,

,

,

Davies, E. and J. Mohacsi "Recommendations for Filtering ICMPv6 Messages in
,
Firewalls" RFC 4890 DOI 10.17487/RFC4890
editor.org/info/rfc4890>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2007,

,

.

,

,
Schinazi, D. and T. Pauly "Happy Eyeballs Version 2: Better Connectivity Using
,
Concurrency" RFC 8305 DOI 10.17487/RFC8305
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8305>

, December 2017,

<https://

,

.

,
Chown, T., Loughney, J., and T. Winters "IPv6 Node Requirements" BCP 220 RFC
,
8504 DOI 10.17487/RFC8504
rfc8504>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2019,

,

.

,
Filsﬁls, C., Ed., Dukes, D., Ed., Previdi, S., Leddy, J., Matsushima, S., and D. Voyer
, March
,
"IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)" RFC 8754 DOI 10.17487/RFC8754
2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8754>

,

.

Acknowledgments

The author would like to thank
Smith Suresh Krishnan
document.

, and

,

Ron Bonica Bob Hinden Nick Hilliard Michael Richardson Mark

,

,

,

,

Ole Tran

 for their comments and suggestions that improved this

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8883

ICMPv6 Limits

September 2020

Author's Address

Tom Herbert
Intel
Santa Clara CA
,
United States of America
Email:

 tom@quantonium.net

Herbert

Standards Track

Page 15

