Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8768
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721
M. Boucadair
Orange

T. Reddy.K
McAfee

J. Shallow

RFC 8768
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) Hop-Limit
Option

Abstract

The presence of Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) proxies may lead to inﬁnite forwarding
loops, which is undesirable. To prevent and detect such loops, this document speciﬁes the Hop-
Limit CoAP option.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8768

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8768

CoAP Hop-Limit Option

March 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Intended Usage

2.  Terminology

3.  Hop-Limit Option

4.  Debugging and Troubleshooting

5.  HTTP Mapping Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  CoAP Response Code

6.2.  CoAP Option Number

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

More and more applications are using the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)
a communication protocol between application agents. For example,
speciﬁes how CoAP is used as a signaling protocol between domains under distributed denial-of-
service (DDoS) attacks and DDoS mitigation providers. In such contexts, a CoAP client can
communicate directly with a server or indirectly via proxies.

[DOTS-SIG-CHANNEL]

[RFC7252]

 as

When multiple proxies are involved, inﬁnite forwarding loops may be experienced (e.g., routing
misconﬁguration, policy conﬂicts). To prevent such loops, this document deﬁnes a new CoAP
option, called Hop-Limit (Section 3). Also, the document deﬁnes a new CoAP Response Code
(Section 6.1) to report loops together with relevant diagnostic information to ease
troubleshooting (Section 4).

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8768

CoAP Hop-Limit Option

March 2020

1.1.  Intended Usage

The Hop-Limit option was originally designed for a speciﬁc use case
However, its intended usage is general:

[DOTS-SIG-CHANNEL]

.

New CoAP proxies

MUST

 implement this option and have it enabled by default.

Note that this means that a server that receives requests both via proxies and directly from
clients may see otherwise identical requests with and without the Hop-Limit option included;
servers with internal caching will therefore also want to implement this option, since
understanding the Hop-Limit option will improve caching eﬃciency.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Readers should be familiar with the terms and concepts deﬁned in

.
[RFC7252]

3.  Hop-Limit Option

The properties of the Hop-Limit option are shown in Table 1. The formatting of this table follows
the one used in Table 4 of
properties Critical, Unsafe, NoCacheKey, and Repeatable deﬁned in
None of these properties is marked for the Hop-Limit option.

. The C, U, N, and R columns indicate the
Section 5.4 of [RFC7252]

[RFC7252] (Section 5.10)

.

Number

C

U N R Name

Format

Length Default

16

Hop-Limit

uint

1

16

Table 1: CoAP Hop-Limit Option Properties

The Hop-Limit option (Section 6.2) is an elective option used to detect and prevent inﬁnite loops
of CoAP requests when proxies are involved. The option is not repeatable. Therefore, any request
carrying multiple Hop-Limit options
Section 5.4.5 of [RFC7252]

 be handled following the procedure speciﬁed in

MUST

.

The value of the Hop-Limit option is encoded as an unsigned integer (see
[RFC7252]
Limit option set to '0' or greater than '255'
(Bad Request).

). This value

MUST

MUST

 be between 1 and 255 inclusive. CoAP requests received with a Hop-

 be rejected by a CoAP server/proxy using 4.00

Section 3.2 of

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8768

CoAP Hop-Limit Option

March 2020

The Hop-Limit option is safe to forward. That is, a CoAP proxy that does not understand the Hop-
Limit option should forward it on. The option is also part of the cache key. As such, a CoAP proxy
that does not understand the Hop-Limit option must follow the recommendations in
Section 5.7.1
of [RFC7252]
Nevertheless, the presence of such proxies will not prevent inﬁnite loop detection if at least one
CoAP proxy that supports the Hop-Limit option is involved in the loop.

 for caching. Note that loops that involve only such proxies will not be detected.

A CoAP proxy that understands the Hop-Limit option
conﬁguration parameter, to insert a Hop-Limit option when relaying a request that does not
include the Hop-Limit option.

 be instructed, using a

SHOULD

The initial Hop-Limit value should be conﬁgurable. If no initial value is explicitly provided, the
 be used. This value is chosen so that in the majority of
default initial Hop-Limit value of 16
cases, it is suﬃciently large to guarantee that a CoAP request would not be dropped in networks
when there were no loops, but not so large as to consume CoAP proxy resources when a loop
does occur. The value is still conﬁgurable to accommodate unusual topologies. Lower values
should be used with caution and only in networks where topologies are known by the CoAP
client (or proxy) inserting the Hop-Limit option.

MUST

Because forwarding errors may occur if inadequate Hop-Limit values are used, proxies at the
boundaries of an administrative domain
 be instructed to remove or rewrite the value of
Hop-Limit carried in received requests (i.e., ignore the value of Hop-Limit received in a request).
This modiﬁcation should be done with caution in case proxy-forwarded traﬃc repeatedly crosses
the administrative domain boundary in a loop, rendering ineﬀective the eﬃcacy of loop
detection through the Hop-Limit option.

MAY

Otherwise, a CoAP proxy that understands the Hop-Limit option
the option by 1 prior to forwarding it. A CoAP proxy that understands the Hop-Limit option
 use a stored 5.08 (Hop Limit Reached) error response unless the value of the Hop-Limit
NOT
option in the presented request is smaller than or equal to the value of the Hop-Limit option in
the request used to obtain the stored response. Otherwise, the CoAP proxy follows the behavior
in

Section 5.6 of [RFC7252]

 decrement the value of

MUST

.

MUST

Note: If a request with a given value of Hop-Limit failed to reach a server because the hop
limit is exhausted, then the same failure will be observed if a smaller value of the Hop-Limit
option is used instead.

MUST NOT

 be forwarded if the Hop-Limit option is set to '0' after decrement.

CoAP requests
Requests that cannot be forwarded because of exhausted Hop-Limit
5.08 (Hop Limit Reached) error response sent back to the CoAP peer. It is
CoAP implementations support means to alert administrators about loop errors so that
appropriate actions are undertaken.

 be logged with a
 that

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8768

CoAP Hop-Limit Option

March 2020

4.  Debugging and Troubleshooting

To ease debugging and troubleshooting, the CoAP proxy that detects a loop includes an identiﬁer
for itself in the diagnostic payload under the conditions detailed in
That identiﬁer
a CoAP proxy can be, for example, a proxy name (e.g., p11.example.net), proxy alias (e.g.,
myproxyalias), or IP address (e.g., 2001:db8::1).

 include any space character (ASCII value 32). The identiﬁer inserted by

Section 5.5.2 of [RFC7252]

MUST NOT

.

Each intermediate proxy involved in relaying a 5.08 (Hop Limit Reached) error message
prepends its own identiﬁer in the diagnostic payload with a space character used as separator.
Only one identiﬁer per proxy should appear in the diagnostic payload. This approach allows the
limiting of the size of the 5.08 (Hop Limit Reached) error message, eases the correlation with
hops count, and detects whether a proxy was involved in the forwarding of the 5.08 (Hop Limit
Reached) error message. Note that an intermediate proxy prepends its identiﬁer only if there is
enough space as determined by the Path MTU (
). If not, an intermediate
proxy forwards the 5.08 (Hop Limit Reached) error message to the next hop without updating the
diagnostic payload.

Section 4.6 of [RFC7252]

An intermediate proxy
that its identiﬁer is included in the diagnostic payload. Such messages
appropriate alerts sent to the administrators.

MUST NOT

 forward a 5.08 (Hop Limit Reached) error message if it detects

SHOULD

 be logged and

5.  HTTP Mapping Considerations

This section focuses on the HTTP mappings speciﬁc to the CoAP extension speciﬁed in this
document. As a reminder, the basic normative requirements on HTTP/CoAP mappings are
deﬁned in
elaborated in

. The implementation guidelines for HTTP/CoAP mappings are

Section 10 of [RFC7252]

[RFC8075]

.

By default, the HTTP-to-CoAP Proxy inserts a Hop-Limit option following the guidelines in Section
3. The HTTP-to-CoAP Proxy may be instructed by policy to insert a Hop-Limit option only if a Via
 is present in the HTTP request.
(
Section 5.7.1 of [RFC7230]

) or CDN-Loop header ﬁeld

[RFC8586]

The HTTP-to-CoAP Proxy uses 508 (Loop Detected) as the HTTP response status code to map 5.08
(Hop Limit Reached). Furthermore, it maps the diagnostic payload of 5.08 (Hop Limit Reached) as
per

Section 6.6 of [RFC8075]

.

By default, the CoAP-to-HTTP Proxy inserts a Via header ﬁeld in the HTTP request if the CoAP
request includes a Hop-Limit option. The CoAP-to-HTTP Proxy may be instructed by policy to
insert a CDN-Loop header ﬁeld instead of the Via header ﬁeld.

The CoAP-to-HTTP Proxy maps the 508 (Loop Detected) HTTP response status code to 5.08 (Hop
Limit Reached). Moreover, the CoAP-to-HTTP Proxy inserts its information following the
guidelines in Section 4.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8768

CoAP Hop-Limit Option

March 2020

When both HTTP-to-CoAP and CoAP-to-HTTP proxies are involved, the loop detection may break
if the proxy-forwarded traﬃc repeatedly crosses the HTTP-to-CoAP and CoAP-to-HTTP proxies.
Nevertheless, if the loop is within the CoAP or HTTP legs, the loop detection is still functional.

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  CoAP Response Code

IANA has registered the following entry in the "CoAP Response Codes" subregistry available at
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/core-parameters>
:

Code Description

Reference

5.08

Hop Limit Reached

RFC 8768

Table 2: CoAP Response Codes

6.2.  CoAP Option Number

IANA has registered the following entry in the "CoAP Option Numbers" subregistry available at
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/core-parameters>
:

Number

Name

Reference

16

Hop-Limit

RFC 8768

Table 3: CoAP Option Number

7.  Security Considerations

Security considerations related to CoAP proxying are discussed in

Section 11.2 of [RFC7252]

.

A CoAP endpoint can probe the topology of a network into which it is making requests by
tweaking the value of the Hop-Limit option. Such probing is likely to fail if proxies at the
boundaries of that network rewrite the value of Hop-Limit carried in received requests (see
Section 3).

The diagnostic payload of a 5.08 (Hop Limit Reached) error message may leak sensitive
information revealing the topology of an administrative domain. To prevent that, a CoAP proxy
that is located at the boundary of an administrative domain
diagnostic payload or part of it before forwarding on the 5.08 (Hop Limit Reached) response.

 be instructed to strip the

MAY

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8768

CoAP Hop-Limit Option

March 2020

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
, June 2014,
,
Message Syntax and Routing" RFC 7230 DOI 10.17487/RFC7230
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7230>

.

,

,

,
Shelby, Z., Hartke, K., and C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

<https://www.rfc-

, June 2014,

,

,

.

Castellani, A., Loreto, S., Rahman, A., Fossati, T., and E. Dijk "Guidelines for
Mapping Implementations: HTTP to the Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP)" RFC 8075 DOI 10.17487/RFC8075
editor.org/info/rfc8075>

, February 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

[RFC7230]

[RFC7252]

[RFC8075]

[RFC8174]

8.2.  Informative References

[DOTS-SIG-CHANNEL]

Reddy, T., Boucadair, M., Patil, P., Mortensen, A., and N. Teague

,

"Distributed Denial-of-Service Open Threat Signaling (DOTS) Signal Channel
Speciﬁcation" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-dots-signal-
channel-41
channel-41>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-dots-signal-

, 6 January 2020,

,

.

,

[RFC8586]

Ludin, S., Nottingham, M., and N. Sullivan "Loop Detection in Content Delivery
Networks (CDNs)" RFC 8586 DOI 10.17487/RFC8586
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8586>

, April 2019,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

This speciﬁcation was part of
speciﬁcations.

[DOTS-SIG-CHANNEL]

. Many thanks to those who reviewed DOTS

,

Klaus Hartke Carsten Bormann Peter van der Stok Jim Schaad Jaime Jiménez Roni
,

Thanks to
,
Even Scott Bradner Thomas Fossati Radia Perlman Éric Vyncke Suresh Krishnan Roman
,
Danyliw Barry Leiba Christer Holmberg Benjamin Kaduk
and comments.

,
Adam Roach

 for their review

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Carsten Bormann

 provided the "Intended Usage" text.

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8768

CoAP Hop-Limit Option

March 2020

Authors' Addresses

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
35000 Rennes
France
Email:

 mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Tirumaleswar Reddy.K
McAfee, Inc.
Embassy Golf Link Business Park
Bangalore 560071
Karnataka
India
Email:

 kondtir@gmail.com

Jon Shallow
United Kingdom
Email:

 supjps-ietf@jpshallow.com

Boucadair, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

