Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8947
Standards Track
December 2020
2070-1721
B. Volz
Cisco

T. Mrugalski
ISC

CJ. Bernardos
UC3M

RFC 8947
Link-Layer Address Assignment Mechanism for
DHCPv6

Abstract

In certain environments, e.g., large-scale virtualization deployments, new devices are created in
an automated manner. Such devices may have their link-layer addresses assigned in an
automated fashion. With suﬃcient scale, the likelihood of a collision using random assignment
without duplication detection is not acceptable. Therefore, an allocation mechanism is required.
This document proposes an extension to DHCPv6 that allows a scalable approach to link-layer
address assignments where preassigned link-layer address assignments (such as by a
manufacturer) are not possible or are unnecessary.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8947

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Terminology

4.  Deployment Scenarios

4.1.  Scenario: Proxy Client Mode

4.2.  Scenario: Direct Client Mode

5.  Mechanism Overview

6.  Design Assumptions

7.  Information Encoding

8.  Requesting Addresses

9.  Renewing Addresses

10. Releasing Addresses

11. Option Deﬁnitions

11.1.  Identity Association for Link-Layer Addresses Option

11.2.  Link-Layer Addresses Option

12. Selecting Link-Layer Addresses for Assignment to an IA_LL

13. IANA Considerations

14. Security Considerations

15. Privacy Considerations

16. References

16.1.  Normative References

16.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  IEEE 802c Summary

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

1.  Introduction

There are several deployment types that deal with a large number of devices that need to be
initialized. One of them is a scenario where virtual machines (VMs) are created on a massive
scale. Typically, the new VM instances are assigned a link-layer address, but random assignment
does not scale well due to the risk of a collision (see
). Another use case
). The huge number of such devices could strain
is Internet of Things (IoT) devices (see
the IEEE's available Organizationally Unique Identiﬁer (OUI) global address space. While there is
typically no need to provide global link-layer address uniqueness for such devices, a link-layer
assignment mechanism allows for conﬂicts to be avoided inside an administrative domain. For
those reasons, it is desired to have some form of mechanism that would be able to assign locally
unique Media Access Control (MAC) addresses.

Appendix A.1 of [RFC4429]

[RFC7228]

This document proposes a new mechanism that extends DHCPv6 operation to handle link-layer
address assignments.

[RFC8415]

 is a protocol that can allocate various types of resources (non-

Since DHCPv6
temporary addresses, temporary addresses, preﬁxes, as well as many options) and has the
necessary infrastructure to maintain such allocations (numerous server and client
implementations, large deployed relay infrastructure, and supportive solutions such as
leasequery and failover), it is a good candidate to address the desired functionality.

While this document presents a design that should be usable for any link-layer address type,
some of the details are speciﬁc to IEEE 802 48-bit MAC addresses
may provide speciﬁcs for other link-layer address types.

[IEEEStd802]

. Future documents

IEEE 802 originally set aside half of the 48-bit MAC address space for local use (where the
Universal/Local (U/L) bit is set to 1). In 2017, IEEE published an amendment
[IEEEStd802c]
divides this space into quadrants with diﬀerentiated address rules. More details are in Appendix
A.

 that

IEEE is also developing protocols and procedures for assignment of locally unique addresses
(IEEE 802.1CQ). This work may serve as an alternative protocol for assignment. For additional
background, see

.
[IEEE-P802.1CQ-Project]

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

3.  Terminology

The DHCP terminology relevant to this speciﬁcation from
deﬁnitions either modify those deﬁnitions as to how they are used in this document or deﬁne
new terminology used herein.

 applies here. The following

[RFC8415]

address

Unless speciﬁed otherwise, a link-layer (or MAC) address, as speciﬁed in
[IEEEStd802]
architectures may use diﬀerent lengths.

. The address is typically six octets long, but some network

address block

A number of consecutive link-layer addresses. An address block is expressed as
a ﬁrst address plus a number that designates the number of additional (extra)
addresses. A single address can be represented by the address itself and zero
extra addresses.

client

IA_LL

LLADDR

server

A node that is interested in obtaining link-layer addresses. It implements the
basic DHCP mechanisms needed by a DHCP client, as described in
,
[RFC8415]
and supports the new options speciﬁed in this document (IA_LL and LLADDR).
The client may or may not support IPv6 address assignment and preﬁx
delegation, as speciﬁed in

[RFC8415]

.

Identity Association for Link-Layer Address, an identity association (IA) used to
request or assign link-layer addresses. See Section 11.1 for details on the IA_LL
option.

Link-layer address option that is used to request or assign a block of link-layer
addresses. See Section 11.2 for details on the LLADDR option.

A node that manages link-layer address allocation and is able to respond to
client queries. It implements basic DHCP server functionality, as described in
[RFC8415]
LLADDR). The server may or may not support IPv6 address assignment and
preﬁx delegation as speciﬁed in
[RFC8415]

, and supports the new options speciﬁed in this document (IA_LL and

.

4.  Deployment Scenarios

This mechanism is designed to be generic and usable in many deployments, but there are two
scenarios it attempts to address in particular: (i) proxy client mode and (ii) direct client mode.

4.1.  Scenario: Proxy Client Mode

This mode is used when an entity acts as a DHCP client that requests that available DHCP servers
assign one or more addresses (an address block) for the DHCP client to then assign to the ﬁnal
end devices to use. Large-scale virtualization is one application scenario for proxy client mode.
In such environments, this entity is often called a "hypervisor" and is frequently required to
spawn new VMs. The hypervisor needs to assign new addresses to those machines. The

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

hypervisor does not use those addresses for itself, but rather it uses them to create new VMs with
appropriate addresses. It is worth pointing out the cumulative nature of this scenario. Over time,
the hypervisor is likely to increase its address use. Some obsolete VMs will be deleted; their
addresses are potentially eligible for reuse by new VMs.

4.2.  Scenario: Direct Client Mode

This mode can be used when an entity acts as a DHCP client that requests that available DHCP
servers assign one or more addresses (an address block) for its own use. This usage scenario is
related to IoT (see Section 1). Upon ﬁrst boot, for each interface, the device uses a temporary
address, as described in
, to send
initial DHCP packets to available DHCP servers wherein the device requests a single address for
that network interface. Once the server assigns an address, the device abandons its temporary
address and uses the assigned (leased) address.

[IEEE-P802.1CQ-Project]

 and IEEE 802.1CQ

[IEEEStd802.11]

Note that a client that operates as above that does not have a globally unique link-layer address
on any of its interfaces
more details, refer to

 use a link-layer-based DHCP Unique Identiﬁer (DUID). For

Section 11 of [RFC8415]

MUST NOT

.

Also, a client that operates as above may run into issues if the switch it is connected to prohibits
or restricts link-layer address changes. This may limit where this capability can be used or may
require the administrator to adjust the conﬁguration of the switch(es) to allow a change in
address.

5.  Mechanism Overview

In the scenarios described in Section 4, the protocol operates in fundamentally the same way. The
device requesting an address, acting as a DHCP client, will send a Solicit message with an IA_LL
option to all available DHCP servers. That IA_LL option
specifying the link-layer-type and link-layer-len, and it may include a speciﬁc address or address
block as a hint for the server. Each available server responds with either a Reply message with
committed address(es) (if Rapid Commit was requested and honored) or an Advertise message
with oﬀered address(es). The client selects a server's response, as governed by
necessary, the client sends a Request message; the target server will then assign the address(es)
and send a Reply message. Once a Reply is received, the client can start using those address(es).

 include an LLADDR option

[RFC8415]

MUST

. If

Normal DHCP mechanisms are in use. The client is expected to periodically renew the addresses
as governed by T1 and T2 timers and to stop using the address once the valid lifetime expires.
Renewals can be administratively disabled by the server sending "inﬁnity" as the T1 and T2
values (see
permanent by specifying use of the "inﬁnity" valid lifetime, as deﬁned in
.
[RFC8415]

). An administrator may make the address assignment

Section 7.7 of [RFC8415]

Section 7.7 of

The client can release addresses when they are no longer needed by sending a Release message
(see

Section 18.2.7 of [RFC8415]

).

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

Figure 9 in
two servers for the typical life cycle of one or more leases.

[RFC8415]

 shows a timeline diagram of the messages exchanged between a client and

Conﬁrm and Information-request messages are not used in link-layer address assignment.
Decline should technically never be needed, but see Section 12 for one situation where this
message is needed.

Clients implementing this mechanism
Sections 5.1 and 18.2.1 of
possible.

[RFC8415]

SHOULD

 use the Rapid Commit option, as speciﬁed in

, to obtain addresses with a two-message exchange when

MAY

 support the reconﬁgure mechanism, as deﬁned in

Devices supporting this proposal
18.2.11 of [RFC8415]
. If supported by both server and client, the reconﬁgure mechanism allows
the administrator to immediately notify clients that the conﬁguration has changed and triggers
retrieval of relevant changes immediately, rather than after the T1 timer elapses. Since this
mechanism requires implementation of Reconﬁguration Key Authentication Protocol (see
), small-footprint devices may choose not to support it.
20.4 of [RFC8415]

Section

Section

6.  Design Assumptions

One of the essential aspects of this mechanism is its cumulative nature, especially in the
hypervisor scenario. The server-client relationship does not look like other DHCP transactions in
the hypervisor scenario. In a typical environment, there would be one server and a rather small
number of hypervisors, possibly even only one. However, over time, the number of addresses
requested by the hypervisor(s) will increase as more VMs are spawned.

Another aspect crucial for eﬃcient design is the observation that a single client acting as
hypervisor will likely use thousands of addresses. An approach similar to what is used for IPv6
address or preﬁx assignment (IA container with all assigned addresses listed, one option for each
address) would not work well. Therefore, the mechanism should operate on address blocks
rather than single values. A single address can be treated as an address block with just one
address.

The DHCP mechanisms are reused to a large degree, including message and option formats,
transmission mechanisms, relay infrastructure, and others. However, a device wishing to
support only link-layer address assignment is not required to support full DHCP. In other words,
the device may support only assignment of link-layer addresses but not IPv6 addresses or
preﬁxes.

7.  Information Encoding

MUST

 send an LLADDR option encapsulated in an IA_LL option to specify the link-layer-

A client
type and link-layer-len values. For link-layer-type 1 (Ethernet) and 6 (IEEE 802 Networks), a client
sets the link-layer-address ﬁeld to:

1.

All zeroes if the client has no hint as to the starting address of the unicast address block. This
address has the IEEE 802 individual/group bit set to 0 (individual).

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

2.

Any other value to request a speciﬁc block of address starting with the speciﬁed address.

Encoding information for other link-layer-types may be added in the future by publishing an RFC
that speciﬁes those values.

A client sets the extra-addresses ﬁeld to either 0 for a single address or the size of the requested
address block minus 1.

A client

MUST

 set the valid-lifetime ﬁeld to 0 (this ﬁeld

MUST

 be ignored by the server).

8.  Requesting Addresses

The addresses are assigned in blocks. The smallest block is a single address. To request an
assignment, the client sends a Solicit message with an IA_LL option inside. The IA_LL option
MUST

 contain an LLADDR option, as speciﬁed in Section 7.

The server, upon receiving an IA_LL option, inspects its content and may oﬀer an address or
addresses for each LLADDR option according to its policy. The server
the address block requested by the client in the LLADDR option. However, the server
to ignore some or all parameters of the requested address block. In particular, the server may
send either a diﬀerent starting address or a smaller number of addresses than requested. The
server sends back an Advertise message with an IA_LL option containing an LLADDR option that
speciﬁes the addresses being oﬀered. If the server is unable to provide any addresses, it
return the IA_LL option containing a Status Code option (see
Section 21.13 of [RFC8415]
status set to NoAddrsAvail.

 take into consideration
 choose

MUST
) with

MAY

MAY

Note that servers that do not support the IA_LL option will ignore the option and not return it in
Advertise (and Reply) messages. Clients that send IA_LL options
returned the NoAddrsAvail status for these IA_LL option(s).

 treat this as if the server

MUST

The client waits for available servers to send Advertise responses and picks one server, as
deﬁned in
IA_LL container option with the LLADDR option copied from the Advertise message sent by the
chosen server.

. The client then sends a Request message that includes the

Section 18.2.9 of [RFC8415]

MUST

 process the address block(s) returned in the Advertise, rather than what it

The client
included in the Solicit message, and may consider the oﬀered address block(s) in selecting the
Advertise message to accept. The server may oﬀer a smaller number of addresses or diﬀerent
addresses from those requested. A client
MUST NOT
message except to select a server and in sending the Request message to that server; resources
are only useable by a client when returned in a Reply message.

 use resources returned in an Advertise

Upon reception of a Request message with the IA_LL container option, the server assigns the
requested addresses. The server allocates a block of addresses according to its conﬁgured policy.
The server
message. The server then generates and sends a Reply message back to the client.

 assign a diﬀerent block or smaller block size than requested in the Request

MAY

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

Upon receiving a Reply message, the client parses the IA_LL container option and may start using
all provided addresses. It
IA_LL option.

 restart its T1 and T2 timers using the values speciﬁed in the

MUST

The client
block(s) or may have a diﬀerent address(es) than requested.

MUST

 use the address block(s) returned in the Reply message, which may be a smaller

A client that has included a Rapid Commit option in the Solicit message may receive a Reply in
response to the Solicit message and skip the Advertise and Request message steps above (see
Section 18.2.1 of [RFC8415]

).

A client that changes its link-layer address on an interface
in

Section 7.2.6 of [RFC4861]

 to inform its neighbors of the new link-layer address quickly.

SHOULD

 follow the recommendations

9.  Renewing Addresses

. Once the T1 timer elapses, the client starts sending Renew messages with the IA_LL

Address renewals follow the normal DHCP renewals processing described in
[RFC8415]
option containing an LLADDR option for the address block being renewed. The server responds
 shrink or
with a Reply message that contains the renewed address block. The server
expand the address block. Once a block is assigned and has a non-zero valid lifetime, its size,
starting address, and ending address

Section 18.2.4 of

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

 change.

If the requesting client needs additional addresses (e.g., in the hypervisor scenario because
addresses need to be assigned to new VMs), it
Identity Association IDentiﬁer (IAID) to create another "container" for more addresses.

 send an IA_LL option with a diﬀerent

MUST

If the client is unable to renew before the T2 timer elapses, it starts sending Rebind messages, as
described in

Section 18.2.5 of [RFC8415]

.

10.  Releasing Addresses

The client may decide to release a leased address block. A client
entirety. A client releases an address block by sending a Release message that includes an IA_LL
option containing the LLADDR option for the address block to release. The Release transmission
mechanism is described in

Section 18.2.7 of [RFC8415]

 release the block in its

MUST

.

Note that if the client is releasing the link-layer address it is using, it
before sending the Release message (as per
client
allocated link-layer address).

 stop using this address
). In order to send the Release message, the
 use another address (such as the one originally used to initiate DHCPv6 to provide an

[RFC8415]

MUST

MUST

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

11.  Option Deﬁnitions

This mechanism uses an approach similar to the existing mechanisms in DHCP. There is one
container option (the IA_LL option) that contains the actual address or addresses, represented by
an LLADDR option. Each LLADDR option represents an address block, which is expressed as a
ﬁrst address with a number that speciﬁes how many additional addresses are included.

11.1.  Identity Association for Link-Layer Addresses Option

The Identity Association for Link-Layer Addresses option (the IA_LL option) is used to carry an
IA_LL, the parameters associated with the IA_LL, and the address blocks associated with the
IA_LL.

The format of the IA_LL option is:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |          OPTION_IA_LL         |          option-len           |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                        IAID (4 octets)                        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                          T1 (4 octets)                        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                          T2 (4 octets)                        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  .                                                               .
  .                         IA_LL-options                         .
  .                                                               .
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: IA_LL Option Format

option-code

OPTION_IA_LL (138).

option-len

12 + length of IA_LL-options ﬁeld.

IAID

T1

The unique identiﬁer for this IA_LL; the IAID must be unique among the
identiﬁers for all of this client's IA_LLs. The number space for IA_LL IAIDs is
separate from the number space for other IA option types (i.e., IA_NA, IA_TA,
and IA_PD). A 4-octet ﬁeld containing an unsigned integer.

The time interval after which the client should contact the server from which
the addresses in the IA_LL were obtained to extend the valid lifetime of the
addresses assigned to the IA_LL; T1 is a time duration relative to the current
time expressed in units of seconds. A 4-octet ﬁeld containing an unsigned
integer.

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

T2

The time interval after which the client should contact any available server to
extend the valid lifetime of the addresses assigned to the IA_LL; T2 is a time
duration relative to the current time expressed in units of seconds. A 4-octet
ﬁeld containing an unsigned integer.

IA_LL-options

Options associated with this IA_LL. A variable-length ﬁeld (12 octets less than
the value in the option-len ﬁeld).

An IA_LL option may only appear in the options area of a DHCP message. A DHCP message may
contain multiple IA_LL options (though each must have a unique IAID).

The status of any operations involving this IA_LL is indicated in a Status Code option (see
21.13 of [RFC8415]

) in the IA_LL-options ﬁeld.

Section

Note that an IA_LL has no explicit "lifetime" or "lease length" of its own. When the valid lifetimes
of all of the addresses in an IA_LL have expired, the IA_LL can be considered to be expired. T1
and T2 are included to give servers explicit control over when a client recontacts the server
about a speciﬁc IA_LL.

In a message sent by a client to a server, the T1 and T2 ﬁelds
ignore any values in these ﬁelds in messages received from a client.

MUST

 be set to 0. The server

MUST

In a message sent by a server to a client, the client
the T1 and T2 times, unless those values in those ﬁelds are 0. The values in the T1 and T2 ﬁelds
are the number of seconds until T1 and T2.

 use the values in the T1 and T2 ﬁelds for

MUST

Section 7.7 of [RFC8415]

As per
carefully.

, the value 0xﬀﬀﬀﬀ is taken to mean "inﬁnity" and should be used

The server selects the T1 and T2 times to allow the client to extend the lifetimes of any address
block in the IA_LL before the lifetimes expire, even if the server is unavailable for some short
period of time. Recommended values for T1 and T2 are .5 and .8 times the shortest valid lifetime
of the address blocks in the IA that the server is willing to extend, respectively. If the "shortest"
valid lifetime is 0xﬀﬀﬀﬀ ("inﬁnity"), the recommended T1 and T2 values are also 0xﬀﬀﬀﬀ. If the
time at which the addresses in an IA_LL are to be renewed is to be left to the discretion of the
client, the server sets T1 and T2 to 0. The client
.
[RFC8415]

 follow the rules deﬁned in

Section 14.2 of

MUST

If a client receives an IA_LL with T1 greater than T2, and both T1 and T2 are greater than 0, the
client discards the IA_LL option and processes the remainder of the message as though the
server had not included the invalid IA_LL option.

The IA_LL-options ﬁeld typically contains one or more LLADDR options (see Section 11.2). If a
client does not include an LLADDR option in a Solicit or Request message, the server
this as a request for a single address and that the client has no hint as to the address it would
like.

MUST

 treat

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

11.2.  Link-Layer Addresses Option

The Link-Layer Addresses option is used to specify an address block associated with an IA_LL.
The option must be encapsulated in the IA_LL-options ﬁeld of an IA_LL option. The LLaddr-
options ﬁeld encapsulates those options that are speciﬁc to this address block.

The format of the Link-Layer Addresses option is:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |          OPTION_LLADDR        |          option-len           |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |       link-layer-type         |        link-layer-len         |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  .                                                               .
  .                     link-layer-address                        .
  .                                                               .
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                      extra-addresses                          |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                      valid-lifetime                           |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  .                                                               .
  .                      LLaddr-options                           .
  .                                                               .
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: LLADDR Option Format

option-code

OPTION_LLADDR (139).

option-len

link-layer-type

link-layer-len

12 + link-layer-len ﬁeld value + length of LLaddr-options ﬁeld. Assuming a
link-layer-address length of 6 and no extra options, the option-len would be
18.

MUST

The link-layer type
described in
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/arp-parameters>
containing an unsigned integer.

[RFC5494]

 be a valid hardware type assigned by IANA, as
, and registered in the "Hardware Types" registry at

. A 2-octet ﬁeld

Speciﬁes the length, in octets, of the link-layer-address ﬁeld (typically 6 for
a link-layer-type of 1 (Ethernet) and 6 (IEEE 802 Networks)). This is to
accommodate link layers that may have variable-length addresses. A 2-
octet ﬁeld containing an unsigned integer.

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

link-layer-address

extra-addresses

Speciﬁes the address of the ﬁrst link-layer address that is being requested
or assigned depending on the message. A client
request any address. For link-layer types 1 and 6, see Section 7 for details
on this ﬁeld. A link-layer-len length octet ﬁeld containing an address.

 send a special value to

MAY

Speciﬁes the number of additional addresses that follow the address
speciﬁed in link-layer-address. For a single address, 0 is used. For example,
link-layer-address 02:04:06:08:0a and extra-addresses 3 designate a block
of four addresses, starting from 02:04:06:08:0a and ending with
02:04:06:08:0d (inclusive). A 4-octet ﬁeld containing an unsigned integer.

valid-lifetime

The valid lifetime for the address(es) in the option, expressed in units of
seconds. A 4-octet ﬁeld containing an unsigned integer.

LLaddr-options

Any encapsulated options that are speciﬁc to this particular address block.
Currently, there are no such options deﬁned, but there may be in the
future.

In a message sent by a client to a server, the valid lifetime ﬁeld
ignore any received value.

MUST

 be set to 0. The server

MUST

In a message sent by a server to a client, the client
 use the value in the valid lifetime ﬁeld
for the valid lifetime for the address block. The value in the valid lifetime ﬁeld is the number of
seconds remaining in the lifetime.

MUST

Section 7.7 of [RFC8415]

As per
should be used carefully.

, the valid lifetime of 0xﬀﬀﬀﬀ is taken to mean "inﬁnity" and

More than one LLADDR option can appear in an IA_LL option.

12.  Selecting Link-Layer Addresses for Assignment to an IA_LL

A server selects link-layer addresses to be assigned to an IA_LL according to the assignment
policies determined by the server administrator and the requirements of that address space.

Link-layer addresses are typically speciﬁc to a link and the server
Section 13.1 of [RFC8415]

 to determine the client's link.

SHOULD

 follow the steps in

For IEEE 802 MAC addresses (see

[IEEEStd802]

 as amended by

[IEEEStd802c]

):

1.

2.

Server administrators
address pools made available for assignment (see Appendix A and
address space reserved for local use or with the authorization of the assignee may be used.

 follow the IEEE 802 Speciﬁcations with regard to the unicast

[IEEEStd802c]

) -- only

SHOULD

MUST NOT

 allow administrators to conﬁgure address pools that would cross the

Servers
boundary of 242 bits (for 48-bit MAC addresses) to avoid issues with changes in the ﬁrst octet
of the address and the special bits therein (see Appendix A). Clients
 reject assignments
where the assigned block would cross this boundary (they
 decline the allocation -- see
Section 18.2.8 of [RFC8415]

MUST

MUST

).

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

 use options supplied by a relay agent or client to select the quadrant (see

3.

MAY

A server
Appendix A) from which addresses are to be assigned. This
speciﬁed in

[RFC8948]

.

MAY

 include options like those

13.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned the OPTION_IA_LL (138) option code from the "Option Codes" subregistry of
the "Dynamic Host Conﬁguration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)" registry maintained at
www.iana.org/assignments/dhcpv6-parameters>
:

<http://

Value:
138
Description:
OPTION_IA_LL
Client ORO:
No
Singleton Option:
Reference:

RFC 8947

No

IANA has assigned the OPTION_LLADDR (139) option code from the "Option Codes" subregistry of
the "Dynamic Host Conﬁguration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)" registry maintained at
:
www.iana.org/assignments/dhcpv6-parameters>

<http://

Value:
139
Description:
OPTION_LLADDR
Client ORO:
No
Singleton Option:
Reference:

RFC 8947

No

14.  Security Considerations

See
See

Section 22 of [RFC8415]
[RFC8200]

 for the IPv6 security considerations.

 and

Section 23 of [RFC7227]

 for the DHCP security considerations.

As discussed in

Section 22 of [RFC8415]

:

DHCP lacks end-to-end encryption between clients and servers; thus, hijacking,
tampering, and eavesdropping attacks are all possible as a result.

In some network environments, it is possible to secure them, as discussed later in
[RFC8415]
.

Section 22 of

If not all parties on a link use this mechanism to obtain an address from the space assigned to the
DHCP server, there is the possibility of the same link-layer address being used by more than one
device. Note that this issue would exist on these networks even if DHCP were not used to obtain
the address.

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

SHOULD

 consider conﬁguration options to limit the maximum number
Server implementations
of addresses to allocate (both in a single request and in total) to a client. However, note that this
does not prevent a bad client actor from pretending to be many diﬀerent clients and consuming
all available addresses.

15.  Privacy Considerations

See

Section 23 of [RFC8415]

 for the DHCP privacy considerations.

For a client requesting a link-layer address directly from a server, as the address assigned to a
client will likely be used by the client to communicate on the link, the address will be exposed to
those able to listen in on this communication. For those peers on the link that are able to listen in
on the DHCP exchange, they would also be able to correlate the client's identity (based on the
DUID used) with the assigned address. Additional mechanisms, such as the ones described in
, can also be used to improve anonymity by minimizing what is exposed.
[RFC7844]

Section 23 of [RFC8415]

As discussed in
implications of assigning addresses sequentially. Though in general, this is only of link-local
concern unlike for IPv6 address assignment and preﬁx delegation, as these may be used for
communication over the Internet.

, DHCP servers and hypervisors may need to consider the

16.  References

16.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4861]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8415]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Narten, T., Nordmark, E., Simpson, W., and H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
<https://
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, September 2007,

.

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

.

,

,

,

Mrugalski, T., Siodelski, M., Volz, B., Yourtchenko, A., Richardson, M., Jiang, S.,
Lemon, T., and T. Winters "Dynamic Host Conﬁguration Protocol for IPv6
,
,
(DHCPv6)" RFC 8415 DOI 10.17487/RFC8415
editor.org/info/rfc8415>

, November 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

16.2.  Informative References

[IEEE-P802.1CQ-Project]

,

IEEE "P802.1CQ - Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area
Networks: Multicast and Local Address Assignment" <https://standards.ieee.org/
project/802_1CQ.html>

,

.

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

[IEEEStd802]

[IEEEStd802.11]

[IEEEStd802c]

[RFC2464]

[RFC4429]

[RFC5494]

[RFC7227]

[RFC7228]

[RFC7844]

[RFC8200]

[RFC8948]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks: Overview and
Architecture, IEEE Std 802" IEEE STD 802-2014 DOI 10.1109/
IEEESTD.2014.6847097 <https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2014.6847097>

,

,

.

,

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Information technology--Telecommunications and
information exchange between systems Local and metropolitan area networks--
Speciﬁc requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and
Physical Layer (PHY) Speciﬁcations" IEEE Std 802.11 DOI 10.1109/
,
IEEESTD.2016.7786995 <https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2016.7786995>

,

.

,

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks:Overview and
Architecture--Amendment 2: Local Medium Access Control (MAC) Address
Usage" IEEE Std 802c-2017 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2017.8016709 <https://
doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2017.8016709>

,

,

,

.

,

Crawford, M. "Transmission of IPv6 Packets over Ethernet Networks" RFC 2464
DOI 10.17487/RFC2464
rfc2464>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 1998,

,

.

,

Moore, N. "Optimistic Duplicate Address Detection (DAD) for IPv6" RFC 4429
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4429>
DOI 10.17487/RFC4429
.

, April 2006,

,

Arkko, J. and C. Pignataro "IANA Allocation Guidelines for the Address
Resolution Protocol (ARP)" RFC 5494 DOI 10.17487/RFC5494
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5494>

,
,

, April 2009,

,

.

Hankins, D., Mrugalski, T., Siodelski, M., Jiang, S., and S. Krishnan "Guidelines
for Creating New DHCPv6 Options" BCP 187 RFC 7227 DOI 10.17487/RFC7227
May 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7227>

,

,

.

,

,

,

Bormann, C., Ersue, M., and A. Keranen "Terminology for Constrained-Node
,
,
Networks" RFC 7228 DOI 10.17487/RFC7228
editor.org/info/rfc7228>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2014,

.

,

Huitema, C., Mrugalski, T., and S. Krishnan "Anonymity Proﬁles for DHCP
Clients" RFC 7844 DOI 10.17487/RFC7844
editor.org/info/rfc7844>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2016,

,

,

.

,

Deering, S. and R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8200>

, July 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Bernardos, CJ. and A. Mourad "Structured Local Address Plan (SLAP) Quadrant
,
Selection Option for DHCPv6" RFC 8948 DOI 10.17487/RFC8948
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8948>

, December 2020,

,
,

.

Appendix A.  IEEE 802c Summary

This appendix provides a brief summary of IEEE 802c

[IEEEStd802c]
.

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

The original IEEE 802 speciﬁcations assigned half of the 48-bit MAC address space to local use --
these addresses have the U/L bit set to 1 and are locally administered with no imposed structure.

In 2017, the IEEE issued the IEEE Std 802c speciﬁcation, which deﬁnes a new optional "Structured
Local Address Plan (SLAP) that speciﬁes diﬀerent assignment approaches in four speciﬁed
regions of the local MAC address space". Under this plan, there are four SLAP quadrants that use
diﬀerent assignment policies.

The ﬁrst octet of the MAC address Z and Y bits deﬁne the quadrant for locally assigned addresses
(X-bit is 1). In IEEE representation, these bits are as follows:

    LSB                MSB
    M  X  Y  Z  -  -  -  -
    |  |  |  |
    |  |  |  +------------ SLAP Z-bit
    |  |  +--------------- SLAP Y-bit
    |  +------------------ X-bit (U/L) = 1 for locally assigned
    +--------------------- M-bit (I/G) (unicast/group)

Figure 3: SLAP Bits

The SLAP quadrants are:

Quadrant

Y-bit

Z-bit

Local Identiﬁer Type

Local Identiﬁer

01

11

00

10

0

1

0

1

1

1

0

0

Extended Local

Standard Assigned

ELI

SAI

Administratively Assigned

AAI

Reserved

Reserved

Table 1: SLAP Quadrants

MAC addresses derived from an Extended Local Identiﬁer (ELI) are based on an assigned
Company ID (CID), which is 24 bits (including the M, X, Y, and Z bits) for 48-bit MAC addresses.
This leaves 24 bits for the locally assigned address for each CID for unicast (M-bit = 0) and also
for multicast (M-bit = 1). The CID is assigned by the IEEE Registration Authority (RA).

MAC addresses derived from a Standard Assigned Identiﬁer (SAI) are assigned by a protocol
speciﬁed in an IEEE 802 standard. For 48-bit MAC addresses, 44 bits are available. Multiple
protocols for assigning SAIs may be speciﬁed in IEEE standards. Coexistence of multiple
protocols may be supported by limiting the subspace available for assignment by each protocol.

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8947

DHCPv6 Link-Layer Address Assignment

December 2020

MAC addresses derived from an Administratively Assigned Identiﬁer (AAI) are assigned locally.
Administrators manage the space as needed. Note that multicast IPv6 packets
destination address starting in 33-33, so AAI addresses in that range should not be assigned. For
48-bit MAC addresses, 44 bits are available.

[RFC2464]

 use a

The last quadrant is reserved for future use. While this quadrant may also be used similar to AAI
space, administrators should be aware that future speciﬁcations may deﬁne alternate uses that
could be incompatible.

Acknowledgments

Thanks to the DHC Working Group participants that reviewed this document and provided
comments and support. With special thanks to
shepherding of this document through the IETF process. Thanks also to directorate reviewers
Samita Chakrabarti Roni Even
Martin Duke Benjamin
Tianran Zhou
Kaduk Murray Kucherawy Warren Kumari Barry Leiba Alvaro Retana Éric Vyncke
,
Wilton
 for their suggestions. And thanks to
for comments related to IEEE work and references.

,
,
Roger Marks Robert Grow
,

 for his thorough reviews and

 and IESG members

,
, and

Antonio de la Oliva

Ian Farrer

, and

, and

,

,

,

Robert

Authors' Addresses

Bernie Volz
Cisco Systems, Inc.
300 Beaver Brook Rd
Boxborough MA 01719
,
United States of America
Email:

 volz@cisco.com

Tomek Mrugalski
Internet Systems Consortium, Inc.
PO Box 360
Newmarket NH 03857
,
United States of America
Email:

 tomasz.mrugalski@gmail.com

Carlos J. Bernardos
Universidad Carlos III de Madrid
Av. Universidad, 30
28911 Leganes, Madrid
Spain
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +34 91624 6236
 cjbc@it.uc3m.es

 http://www.it.uc3m.es/cjbc/

Volz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

