Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8863
8445, 8838
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
C. Holmberg
Ericsson

J. Uberti
Google

RFC 8863
Interactive Connectivity Establishment Patiently
Awaiting Connectivity (ICE PAC)

Abstract

During the process of establishing peer-to-peer connectivity, Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE) agents can encounter situations where they have no candidate pairs to
check, and, as a result, conclude that ICE processing has failed. However, because additional
candidate pairs can be discovered during ICE processing, declaring failure at this point may be
premature. This document discusses when these situations can occur.

This document updates RFCs 8445 and 8838 by requiring that an ICE agent wait a minimum
amount of time before declaring ICE failure, even if there are no candidate pairs left to check.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8863

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Holmberg & Uberti

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8863

ICE PAC

January 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions

3.  Relevant Scenarios

3.1.  No Candidates from Peer

3.2.  All Candidates Discarded

3.3.  Immediate Candidate Pair Failure

4.  Update to RFC 8445

5.  Update to RFC 8838

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Normative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC8445]
Address Translator (NAT) traversal for UDP-based communication.

 describes a protocol, Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE), for Network

When using ICE, endpoints will typically exchange ICE candidates, form a list of candidate pairs,
and then test each candidate pair to see if connectivity can be established. If the test for a given
pair fails, it is marked accordingly, and if all pairs have failed, the overall ICE process typically is
considered to have failed.

During the process of connectivity checks, additional candidates may be created as a result of
successful inbound checks from the remote peer. Such candidates are referred to as peer-
reﬂexive candidates; once discovered, these candidates will be used to form new candidate pairs,
which will be tested like any other. However, there is an inherent problem here; if, before

Holmberg & Uberti

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8863

ICE PAC

January 2021

learning about any peer-reﬂexive candidates, an endpoint runs out of candidate pairs to check,
either because it has none or it considers them all to have failed, it will prematurely declare
failure and terminate ICE processing. This problem can occur in many common situations.

This speciﬁcation updates
[RFC8838]
minimum amount of time before declaring ICE failure, even if there are no candidate pairs to
check or all candidate pairs have failed. This delay provides enough time for the discovery of
peer-reﬂexive candidates, which may eventually lead to ICE processing completing successfully.

 by simply requiring that an ICE agent wait a

[RFC8445]

 and

2.  Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Relevant Scenarios

As noted above, the core problem this speciﬁcation attempts to address is the situation where
even after local gathering and remote candidate signaling have completed, the ICE agent
immediately ends up with no valid pairs and no candidate pairs left to check, resulting in a
premature ICE failure. This failure is premature because not enough time has elapsed to allow
for discovery of peer-reﬂexive candidates from inbound connectivity checks; if discovered, these
candidates are very likely to result in a valid pair.

In most ICE scenarios, the lengthy timeouts for connectivity check transactions, typically tens of
seconds, will prevent this problem from occurring. However, there are certain speciﬁc cases
where this problem will frequently occur.

3.1.  No Candidates from Peer

[RFC8838]

Per
, an ICE agent can provide zero candidates of its own. If the agent somehow knows
that the remote endpoint is directly reachable, gathering local candidates is unnecessary and will
only cause delays; the peer agent can discover the appropriate local candidate via connectivity
checks.

However, following the procedures from
since the checklist at the peer agent will be empty.

[RFC8445]

 strictly will result in immediate ICE failure,

3.2.  All Candidates Discarded

Even if the ICE agent provides candidates, they may be discarded by the peer agent if it does not
know what to do with them. For example, candidates may use an address family that the peer
agent does not support (e.g., a host candidate with an IPv6 address in a NAT64 scenario) or that
may not be usable for some other reason.

Holmberg & Uberti

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8863

ICE PAC

January 2021

In these scenarios, when the candidates are discarded, the checklist at the peer agent will once
again be empty, leading to immediate ICE failure.

3.3.  Immediate Candidate Pair Failure

Section 7.2.5.2 of [RFC8445]
considered to have failed, well before the connectivity check transaction timeout.

 describes several situations in which a candidate pair will be

As a result, even if the ICE agent provides usable candidates, the pairs created by the peer agent
may fail immediately when checked, e.g., a check to a non-routable address that receives an
immediate ICMP error.

In this situation, the checklist at the peer agent may contain only failed pairs, resulting in
immediate ICE failure.

4.  Update to RFC 8445

In order to avoid the problem raised by this document, the ICE agent needs to wait enough time
to allow peer-reﬂexive candidates to be discovered. Accordingly, when a full ICE implementation
begins its ICE processing, as described in
known as the "PAC timer" (Patiently Awaiting Connectivity), to ensure that ICE will run for a
minimum amount of time before determining failure.

[RFC8445], Section 6.1 MUST

 set a timer, henceforth

, it

Speciﬁcally, the ICE agent will start its timer once it believes ICE connectivity checks are starting.
This occurs when the agent has sent the values needed to perform connectivity checks (e.g., the
Username Fragment and Password denoted in
indication that the remote side is ready to start connectivity checks, typically via receipt of the
values mentioned above. Note that the agent will start the timer even if it has not sent or
received any ICE candidates.

) and has received some

[RFC8445], Section 5.3

RECOMMENDED

 duration for the PAC timer is equal to the agent's connectivity check

The
transaction timeout, including all retransmissions. When using default values for retransmission
timeout (RTO) and Rc, this amounts to 39.5 seconds, as explained in
. This
timeout value is chosen to roughly coincide with the maximum possible duration of ICE
connectivity checks from the remote peer, which, if successful, could create peer-reﬂexive
candidates. Because the ICE agent doesn't know the exact number of candidate pairs and pacing
interval in use by the remote side, this timeout value is simply a guess, albeit an educated one.
Regardless, for this particular problem, the desired beneﬁts will be realized as long as the agent
waits some reasonable amount of time, and, as usual, the application is in the best position to
determine what is reasonable for its scenario.

[RFC5389], Section 7.2.1

While the timer is still running, the ICE agent
Failed, even if there are no pairs left in the checklist to check. As a result, the ICE agent will not
remove any data streams or set the state of the ICE session to Failed as long as the timer is
running.

 update a checklist state from Running to

MUST NOT

Holmberg & Uberti

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8863

ICE PAC

January 2021

When the timer period eventually elapses, the ICE agent
including setting the state of any checklists to Failed if they have no pairs left to check and
handling any consequences as indicated in
such checklists, no action is necessary.

[RFC8445], Section 8.1.2

 resume typical ICE processing,

. Naturally, if there are no

MUST

One consequence of this behavior is that in cases where ICE should fail, e.g., where both sides
provide candidates with unsupported address families, ICE will no longer fail immediately -- it
will only fail when the PAC timer expires. However, because most ICE scenarios require an
extended period of time to determine failure, the fact that some speciﬁc scenarios no longer fail
quickly should have minimal application impact, if any.

. That speciﬁcation does not deﬁne a minimum duration for ICE

Note also that the PAC timer is potentially relevant to the ICE nomination procedure described in
[RFC8445], Section 8.1.1
processing prior to nomination of a candidate pair, but in order to select the best candidate pair,
ICE needs to run for enough time in order to allow peer-reﬂexive candidates to be discovered
 wait a suﬃcient
and checked, as noted above. Accordingly, the controlling ICE agent
 use the PAC timer to do so. As
amount of time before nominating candidate pairs, and it
always, the controlling ICE agent retains full discretion and
 decide, based on its own
criteria, to nominate pairs prior to the PAC timer period elapsing.

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

5.  Update to RFC 8838

[RFC8838]

 considers a similar problem, namely whether an ICE agent should allow a
Trickle ICE
checklist to enter the Failed state if more candidates might still be provided by the remote peer.
The solution, speciﬁed in
[RFC8838], Section 8
been received before determining ICE failure.

, is to wait until an end-of-candidates indication has

However, for the same reasons described above, the ICE agent may discover peer-reﬂexive
candidates after it has received the end-of-candidates indication, and so the solution proposed by
 still be used even when the ICE agent is using Trickle ICE.
this document

MUST

Note also that sending an end-of-candidates indication is only a
which means that ICE agents will need to implement a backup mechanism to decide when all
candidates have been received, typically a timer. Accordingly, ICE agents
to also serve as an end-of-candidates fallback.

-strength requirement,

 use the PAC timer

SHOULD

MAY

6.  Security Considerations

The security considerations for ICE are deﬁned in
that ICE agents wait for a certain period of time before they declare ICE failure; it does not
introduce new security considerations.

. This speciﬁcation only recommends

[RFC8445]

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

Holmberg & Uberti

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8863

ICE PAC

January 2021

8.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5389]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8838]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Rosenberg, J., Mahy, R., Matthews, P., and D. Wing "Session Traversal Utilities for
,
NAT (STUN)" RFC 5389 DOI 10.17487/RFC5389
.
editor.org/info/rfc5389>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2008,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

Ivov, E., Uberti, J., and P. Saint-Andre "Trickle ICE: Incremental Provisioning of
Candidates for the Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) Protocol" RFC
,
8838 DOI 10.17487/RFC8838
rfc8838>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2021,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

Roman Shpount Nils Ohlmeier

,

, and

Peter Thatcher

 provided lots of useful input and comments.

Authors' Addresses

Christer Holmberg
Ericsson
Hirsalantie 11
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 christer.holmberg@ericsson.com

Justin Uberti
Google
747 6th St W
Kirkland WA 98033
,
United States of America
Email:

 justin@uberti.name

Holmberg & Uberti

Standards Track

Page 6

