Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8766
Standards Track
June 2020
2070-1721
S. Cheshire
Apple Inc.

RFC 8766
Discovery Proxy for Multicast DNS-Based Service
Discovery

Abstract

This document speciﬁes a network proxy that uses Multicast DNS to automatically populate the
wide-area unicast Domain Name System namespace with records describing devices and
services found on the local link.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8766

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Operational Analogy

3.  Conventions and Terminology Used in This Document

4.  Compatibility Considerations

5.  Discovery Proxy Operation

5.1.  Delegated Subdomain for DNS-based Service Discovery Records

5.2.  Domain Enumeration

5.2.1.  Domain Enumeration via Unicast Queries

5.2.2.  Domain Enumeration via Multicast Queries

5.3.  Delegated Subdomain for LDH Host Names

5.4.  Delegated Subdomain for Reverse Mapping

5.5.  Data Translation

5.5.1.  DNS TTL Limiting

5.5.2.  Suppressing Unusable Records

5.5.3.  NSEC and NSEC3 Queries

5.5.4.  No Text-Encoding Translation

5.5.5.  Application-Speciﬁc Data Translation

5.6.  Answer Aggregation

6.  Administrative DNS Records

6.1.  DNS SOA (Start of Authority) Record

6.2.  DNS NS Records

6.3.  DNS Delegation Records

6.4.  DNS SRV Records

6.5.  Domain Enumeration Records

7.  DNSSEC Considerations

7.1.  Online Signing Only

7.2.  NSEC and NSEC3 Records

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

8.  IPv6 Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

9.1.  Authenticity

9.2.  Privacy

9.3.  Denial of Service

10. IANA Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Implementation Status

A.1.  Already Implemented and Deployed

A.2.  Already Implemented

A.3.  Partially Implemented

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

[RFC6762]

Multicast DNS
were created to provide IP networking with the ease of use and autoconﬁguration for which
AppleTalk was well known

 and its companion technology DNS-based Service Discovery

[RFC6760] [ZC] [ROADMAP]

.

[RFC6763]

For a small home network consisting of just a single link (or a few physical links bridged together
 is
to appear as a single logical link from the point of view of IP), Multicast DNS
suﬃcient for client devices to look up the ".local" host names of peers on the same home
network, and to use Multicast DNS-based Service Discovery (DNS-SD)
services oﬀered on that home network.

 to discover

[RFC6762]

[RFC6763]

For a larger network consisting of multiple links that are interconnected using IP-layer routing
instead of link-layer bridging, link-local Multicast DNS alone is insuﬃcient because link-local
Multicast DNS packets, by design, are not propagated onto other links.

Using link-local multicast packets for Multicast DNS was a conscious design choice
Even when limited to a single link, multicast traﬃc is still generally considered to be more
expensive than unicast, because multicast traﬃc impacts many devices instead of just a single
recipient. In addition, with some technologies like Wi-Fi

, multicast traﬃc is inherently

.
[RFC6762]

[IEEE-11]

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

less eﬃcient and less reliable than unicast, because Wi-Fi multicast traﬃc is sent at lower data
[MCAST]
rates, and is not acknowledged
ﬂooding it across multiple links would make the traﬃc load even worse.

. Increasing the amount of expensive multicast traﬃc by

Partitioning the network into many small links curtails the spread of expensive multicast traﬃc
but limits the discoverability of services. At the opposite end of the spectrum, using a very large
local link with thousands of hosts enables better service discovery but at the cost of larger
amounts of multicast traﬃc.

Performing DNS-based Service Discovery using purely Unicast DNS is more eﬃcient and doesn't
require large multicast domains but does require that the relevant data be available in the
Unicast DNS namespace. The Unicast DNS namespace in question could fall within a traditionally
assigned globally unique domain name, or it could be within a private local unicast domain
name such as ".home.arpa"

[RFC8375]

.

In the DNS-SD speciﬁcation
discusses various possible ways that a service's PTR, SRV, TXT, and address records can make
their way into the Unicast DNS namespace, including manual zone ﬁle conﬁguration
[RFC1035]

 ("Populating the DNS with Information")

, and proxies of various kinds.

[RFC6763], Section 10

[RFC2136] [RFC3007]

, DNS Update

[RFC1034]

One option is to make the relevant data available in the Unicast DNS namespace by manual DNS
conﬁguration. This option has been used for many years at IETF meetings to advertise the IETF
terminal room printer. Details of this example are given in
document [ROADMAP]
and requires a reasonable degree of DNS expertise.

. However, this manual DNS conﬁguration is labor intensive, error prone,

Appendix A of the Roadmap

Another option is to populate the Unicast DNS namespace by having the devices oﬀering the
. However, this requires
services do that themselves, using DNS Update
conﬁguration of DNS Update keys on those devices, which has proven onerous and impractical
for simple devices like printers and network cameras.

[REG-PROT] [DNS-UL]

Hence, to facilitate eﬃcient and reliable DNS-based Service Discovery, a hybrid is needed that
combines the ease of use of Multicast DNS with the eﬃciency and scalability of Unicast DNS.

This document speciﬁes a type of proxy called a "Discovery Proxy" that uses Multicast DNS
[RFC6762]
corresponding DNS records visible in the Unicast DNS namespace.

 to discover Multicast DNS records on its local link on demand, and makes

In principle, similar mechanisms could be deﬁned for other local discovery protocols, by creating
a proxy that (i) uses the protocol in question to discover local information on demand, and then
(ii) makes corresponding DNS records visible in the Unicast DNS namespace. Such mechanisms
for other local discovery protocols could be addressed in future documents.

The design of the Discovery Proxy is guided by the previously published DNS-based Service
.
Discovery requirements document
[RFC7558]

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

In simple terms, a descriptive DNS name is chosen for each link in an organization. Using a DNS
NS record, responsibility for that DNS name is delegated to a Discovery Proxy physically attached
to that link. When a remote client issues a unicast query for a name falling within the delegated
subdomain, the normal DNS delegation mechanism results in the unicast query arriving at the
Discovery Proxy, since it has been declared authoritative for those names. Now, instead of
consulting a textual zone ﬁle on disk to discover the answer to the query as a traditional
authoritative DNS server would, a Discovery Proxy consults its local link, using Multicast DNS, to
ﬁnd the answer to the question.

For fault tolerance reasons, there may be more than one Discovery Proxy serving a given link.

Note that the Discovery Proxy uses a "pull" model. Until some remote client has requested data,
the local link is not queried using Multicast DNS. In the idle state, in the absence of client
requests, the Discovery Proxy sends no packets and imposes no burden on the network. It
operates purely "on demand".

An alternative proposal that has been discussed is a proxy that performs DNS updates to a
remote DNS server on behalf of the Multicast DNS devices on the local network. The diﬃculty
with this is that Multicast DNS devices do not routinely announce their records on the network.
Generally, they remain silent until queried. This means that the complete set of Multicast DNS
records in use on a link can only be discovered by active querying, not by passive listening.
Because of this, a proxy can only know what names exist on a link by issuing queries for them,
and since it would be impractical to issue queries for every possible name just to ﬁnd out which
names exist and which do not, there is no reasonable way for a proxy to programmatically learn
all the answers it would need to push up to the remote DNS server using DNS Update. Even if
such a mechanism were possible, it would risk generating high load on the network
continuously, even when there are no clients with any interest in that data.

Hence, having a model where the query comes to the Discovery Proxy is much more eﬃcient
than a model where the Discovery Proxy pushes the answers out to some other remote DNS
server.

A client seeking to discover services and other information performs this by sending traditional
DNS queries to the Discovery Proxy or by sending DNS Push Notiﬁcation subscription requests
.
[RFC8765]

How a client discovers what domain name(s) to use for its DNS-based Service Discovery queries
(and, consequently, what Discovery Proxy or Proxies to use) is described in Section 5.2.

The diagram below illustrates a network topology using a Discovery Proxy to provide discovery
service to a remote client.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

 +--------+   Unicast     +-----------+  +---------+  +---------+
 | Remote | Communication | Discovery |  | Network |  | Network |
 | Client |---- . . . ----|   Proxy   |  | Printer |  | Camera  |
 +--------+               +-----------+  +---------+  +---------+
      |                         |             |            |
------------            --------------------------------------------
                       Multicast-capable LAN segment (e.g., Ethernet)

Figure 1: Example Deployment

Note that there need not be any Discovery Proxy on the link to which the remote client is directly
attached. The remote client communicates directly with the Discovery Proxy using normal
unicast TCP/IP communication mechanisms, potentially spanning multiple IP hops, possibly
including VPN tunnels and other similar long-distance communication channels.

2.  Operational Analogy

A Discovery Proxy does not operate as a multicast relay or multicast forwarder. There is no
danger of multicast forwarding loops that result in traﬃc storms, because no multicast packets
are forwarded. A Discovery Proxy operates as a proxy for remote clients, performing queries on
their behalf and reporting the results back.

A reasonable analogy is making a telephone call to a colleague at your workplace and saying,
"I'm out of the oﬃce right now. Would you mind bringing up a printer browser window and
telling me the names of the printers you see?" That entails no risk of a forwarding loop causing a
traﬃc storm, because no multicast packets are sent over the telephone call.

A similar analogy, instead of enlisting another human being to initiate the service discovery
operation on your behalf, is to log in to your own desktop work computer using screen sharing
and then run the printer browser yourself to see the list of printers. Or, log in using Secure Shell
(ssh) and type "dns-sd -B _ipp._tcp" and observe the list of discovered printer names. In neither
case is there any risk of a forwarding loop causing a traﬃc storm, because no multicast packets
are being sent over the screen-sharing or ssh connection.

The Discovery Proxy provides another way of performing remote queries, which uses a diﬀerent
protocol instead of screen sharing or ssh. The Discovery Proxy mechanism can be thought of as a
custom Remote Procedure Call (RPC) protocol that allows a remote client to exercise the Multicast
DNS APIs on the Discovery Proxy device, just as a local client running on the Discovery Proxy
device would use those APIs.

When the Discovery Proxy software performs Multicast DNS operations, the exact same
Multicast DNS caching mechanisms are applied as when any other client software on that
Discovery Proxy device performs Multicast DNS operations, regardless of whether that be
running a printer browser client locally, a remote user running the printer browser client via a
screen-sharing connection, a remote user logged in via ssh running a command-line tool like
"dns-sd", or a remote user sending DNS requests that cause a Discovery Proxy to perform
discovery operations on its behalf.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

3.  Conventions and Terminology Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The Discovery Proxy builds on Multicast DNS, which works between hosts on the same link. For
the purposes of this document, a set of hosts is considered to be "on the same link" if:

•

when any host from that set sends a packet to any other host in that set, using unicast,
multicast, or broadcast, the entire link-layer packet payload arrives unmodiﬁed, and

•

a broadcast sent over that link, by any host from that set of hosts, can be received by every
other host in that set.

The link-layer header may be modiﬁed, such as in Token Ring Source Routing
the link-layer payload. In particular, if any device forwarding a packet modiﬁes any part of the IP
header or IP payload, then the packet is no longer considered to be on the same link. This means
that the packet may pass through devices such as repeaters, bridges, hubs, or switches and still
be considered to be on the same link for the purpose of this document, but not through a device
such as an IP router that decrements the IP TTL or otherwise modiﬁes the IP header.

, but not

[IEEE-5]

4.  Compatibility Considerations

No changes to existing devices are required to work with a Discovery Proxy.

Existing devices that advertise services using Multicast DNS work with a Discovery Proxy.

Existing clients that support DNS-based Service Discovery over Unicast DNS work with a
Discovery Proxy. DNS-based Service Discovery over Unicast DNS was introduced in Mac OS X 10.4
Tiger in April 2005 and has been included in Apple products introduced since then, including the
iPhone and iPad. It has also been included in products from other vendors, such as Microsoft
Windows 10.

An overview of the larger collection of associated DNS-based Service Discovery technologies, and
how the Discovery Proxy technology relates to those, is given in the Service Discovery Road Map
document

[ROADMAP]

.

5.  Discovery Proxy Operation

In a typical conﬁguration, a Discovery Proxy is conﬁgured to be authoritative
[RFC1035]
delegated from the parent domain to the Discovery Proxy in the usual way for DNS delegation,
via NS records.

 for four or more DNS subdomains, listed below. Authority for these subdomains is

[RFC1034]

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

A DNS subdomain for DNS-based Service Discovery records.

This subdomain name may contain rich text, including spaces and other punctuation. This
is because this subdomain name is used only in graphical user interfaces, where rich text
is appropriate.

A DNS subdomain for host name records.

This subdomain name
facilitate the convenient use of host names in command-line interfaces.

 be limited to letters, digits, and hyphens in order to

SHOULD

One or more DNS subdomains for IPv4 Reverse Mapping records.

These subdomains will have names that end in "in-addr.arpa".

One or more DNS subdomains for IPv6 Reverse Mapping records.
These subdomains will have names that end in "ip6.arpa".

In an enterprise network, the naming and delegation of these subdomains is typically performed
by conscious action of the network administrator. In a home network, naming and delegation
would typically be performed using some automatic conﬁguration mechanism such as Home
Networking Control Protocol (HNCP)

[RFC7788]

.

These three varieties of delegated subdomains (service discovery, host names, and reverse
mapping) are described below in Sections 5.1, 5.3, and 5.4.

How a client discovers where to issue its DNS-based Service Discovery queries is described in
Section 5.2.

5.1.  Delegated Subdomain for DNS-based Service Discovery Records

In its simplest form, each link in an organization is assigned a unique Unicast DNS domain name
such as "Building 1.example.com" or "2nd Floor.Building 3.example.com". Grouping multiple
links under a single Unicast DNS domain name is to be speciﬁed in a future companion
document, but for the purposes of this document, assume that each link has its own unique
Unicast DNS domain name. In a graphical user interface these names are not displayed as strings
with dots as shown above, but something more akin to a typical ﬁle browser graphical user
interface (which is harder to illustrate in a text-only document) showing folders, subfolders, and
ﬁles in a ﬁle system.

 +---------------+--------------+-------------+-------------------+
 | *example.com* |  Building 1  |  1st Floor  | Alice's printer   |
 |               |  Building 2  | *2nd Floor* | Bob's printer     |
 |               | *Building 3* |  3rd Floor  | Charlie's printer |
 |               |  Building 4  |  4th Floor  |                   |
 |               |  Building 5  |             |                   |
 |               |  Building 6  |             |                   |
 +---------------+--------------+-------------+-------------------+

Figure 2: Illustrative GUI

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

Each named link in an organization has one or more Discovery Proxies that serve it. This
Discovery Proxy function could be performed by a device like a router or switch that is
physically attached to that link. In the parent domain, NS records are used to delegate ownership
of each deﬁned link name (e.g., "Building 1.example.com") to one or more Discovery Proxies that
serve the named link. In other words, the Discovery Proxies are the authoritative name servers
for that subdomain. As in the rest of DNS-based Service Discovery, all names are represented as-
is using plain UTF-8 encoding and, as described in Section 5.5.4, no text-encoding translations are
performed.

With appropriate VLAN conﬁguration
logical presence on many links and serve as the Discovery Proxy for all those links. In such a
conﬁguration, the Discovery Proxy device would have a single physical Ethernet
conﬁgured as a VLAN trunk port, which would appear to software on that device as multiple
virtual Ethernet interfaces, one connected to each of the VLAN links.

, a single Discovery Proxy device could have a

[IEEE-1Q]

[IEEE-3]

 port,

As an alternative to using VLAN technology, using a Multicast DNS Discovery Relay
another way that a Discovery Proxy can have a "virtual" presence on a remote link.

[RELAY]

 is

When a DNS-SD client issues a Unicast DNS query to discover services in a particular Unicast
DNS subdomain (e.g., "_ipp._tcp.Building 1.example.com. PTR ?"), the normal DNS delegation
mechanism results in that query being forwarded until it reaches the delegated authoritative
name server for that subdomain, namely, the Discovery Proxy on the link in question. Like a
conventional Unicast DNS server, a Discovery Proxy implements the usual Unicast DNS protocol
 over UDP and TCP. However, unlike a conventional Unicast DNS server that
[RFC1034] [RFC1035]
generates answers from the data in its manually conﬁgured zone ﬁle, a Discovery Proxy learns
answers using Multicast DNS. A Discovery Proxy does this by consulting its Multicast DNS cache
and/or issuing Multicast DNS queries, as appropriate according to the usual protocol rules of
Multicast DNS
delegated zone part of the name replaced with ".local" (e.g., in this case, "_ipp._tcp.local. PTR ?").
Then, from the received Multicast DNS data, the Discovery Proxy synthesizes the appropriate
Unicast DNS response, with the ".local" top-level label of the owner name replaced with the name
of the delegated zone. Further details of the name translation rules are described in Section 5.5.
Rules specifying how long the Discovery Proxy should wait to accumulate Multicast DNS
responses before sending its unicast reply are described in Section 5.6.

, for the corresponding Multicast DNS name, type, and class, with the

[RFC6762]

The existing Multicast DNS caching mechanism is used to minimize unnecessary Multicast DNS
queries on the wire. The Discovery Proxy is acting as a client of the underlying Multicast DNS
subsystem and beneﬁts from the same caching and eﬃciency measures as any other client using
that subsystem.

Note that the contents of the delegated zone, generated as it is by performing ".local" Multicast
DNS queries, mirrors the records available on the local link via Multicast DNS very closely, but
not precisely. There is not a full bidirectional equivalence between the two. Certain records that
are available via Multicast DNS may not have equivalents in the delegated zone possibly because
they are invalid or not relevant in the delegated zone or because they are being suppressed
because they are unusable outside the local link (see Section 5.5.2). Conversely, certain records
that appear in the delegated zone may not have corresponding records available on the local link

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

via Multicast DNS. In particular, there are certain administrative SRV records (see Section 6) that
logically fall within the delegated zone but semantically represent metadata about the zone
rather than records within the zone. Consequently, these administrative records in the delegated
zone do not have any corresponding counterparts in the Multicast DNS namespace of the local
link.

5.2.  Domain Enumeration

A DNS-SD client performs Domain Enumeration
unicast and multicast.

[RFC6763]

 via certain PTR queries, using both

If a DNS-SD client receives a Domain Name conﬁguration via DHCP then it issues unicast queries
derived from this domain name. It also issues unicast queries using names derived from its IPv4
subnet address(es) and IPv6 preﬁx(es). These unicast Domain Enumeration queries are described
in Section 5.2.1. A DNS-SD client also issues multicast Domain Enumeration queries in the "local"
domain
queries are combined for DNS-based Service Discovery purposes.

, as described in Section 5.2.2. The results of all the Domain Enumeration

[RFC6762]

5.2.1.  Domain Enumeration via Unicast Queries

The (human or automated) administrator creates Unicast DNS Domain Enumeration PTR records
[RFC6763]
 to inform clients of available service discovery domains. Two varieties of such Unicast
DNS Domain Enumeration PTR records exist: those with names derived from the domain name
communicated to the clients via
, and those with names derived from
DHCP option 15 [RFC2132]
either IPv4 subnet address(es) or IPv6 preﬁx(es) in use by the clients. Below is an example
showing the name-based variety, where the DHCP server conﬁgured the client with the domain
name "example.com":

    b._dns-sd._udp.example.com.    PTR   Building 1.example.com.
                                   PTR   Building 2.example.com.
                                   PTR   Building 3.example.com.
                                   PTR   Building 4.example.com.

    db._dns-sd._udp.example.com.   PTR   Building 1.example.com.

    lb._dns-sd._udp.example.com.   PTR   Building 1.example.com.

MUST

DNS-based Service Discovery speciﬁcation

 but, for convenience, is repeated here. The "b" ("browse") records tell the client device

The meaning of these records is deﬁned in the
[RFC6763]
the list of browsing domains to display for the user to select from. The "db" ("default browse")
record tells the client device which domain in that list should be selected by default. The "db"
domain
 be one of the domains in the "b" list; if not, then no domain is selected by default.
The "lb" ("legacy browse") record tells the client device which domain to automatically browse
on behalf of applications that don't implement user interface for multi-domain browsing (which
is most of them at the time of writing). The "lb" domain is often the same as the "db" domain, or
sometimes the "db" domain plus one or more others that should be included in the list of
automatic browsing domains for legacy clients.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

Note that in the example above, for clarity, space characters in names are shown as actual
spaces. If this data is manually entered into a textual zone ﬁle for authoritative server software
such as BIND, care must be taken because the space character is used as a ﬁeld separator, and
other characters like dot ('.'), semicolon (';'), dollar ('$'), backslash ('\'), etc., also have special
meaning. These characters have to be escaped when entered into a textual zone ﬁle, following
the rules in
is represented in the textual zone ﬁle using '\032', so "Building 1.example.com" is entered as
"Building\0321.example.com".

Section 5.1 of the DNS speciﬁcation [RFC1035]

. For example, a literal space in a name

DNS responses are limited to a maximum size of 65535 bytes. This limits the maximum number
of domains that can be returned for a Domain Enumeration query as follows:

A DNS response header is 12 bytes. That's typically followed by a single qname (up to 256 bytes)
plus qtype (2 bytes) and qclass (2 bytes), leaving 65275 for the Answer Section.

An Answer Section Resource Record consists of:

•
•
•
•
•
•

Owner name, encoded as a compression pointer, 2 bytes
RRTYPE (type PTR), 2 bytes
RRCLASS (class IN), 2 bytes
TTL, 4 bytes
RDLENGTH, 2 bytes
RDATA (domain name), up to 256 bytes

This means that each Resource Record in the Answer Section can take up to 268 bytes total,
which means that the Answer Section can contain, in the worst case, no more than 243 domains.

In a more typical scenario, where the domain names are not all maximum-sized names, and
there is some similarity between names so that reasonable name compression is possible, each
Answer Section Resource Record may average 140 bytes, which means that the Answer Section
can contain up to 466 domains.

It is anticipated that this should be suﬃcient for even a large corporate network or university
campus.

5.2.2.  Domain Enumeration via Multicast Queries

In the case where Discovery Proxy functionality is widely deployed within an enterprise (either
by having a Discovery Proxy physically on each link, or by having a Discovery Proxy with a
remote "virtual" presence on each link using VLANs or Multicast DNS Discovery Relays
this oﬀers an additional way to provide Domain Enumeration conﬁguration data for clients.

[RELAY]

),

Note that this function of the Discovery Proxy is supplementary to the primary purpose of the
Discovery Proxy, which is to facilitate remote clients discovering services on the Discovery
Proxy's local link. This publication of Domain Enumeration conﬁguration data via link-local
multicast on the Discovery Proxy's local link is performed for the beneﬁt of local clients attached
to that link, and typically directs those clients to contact other distant Discovery Proxies attached
to other links. Generally, a client does not need to use the local Discovery Proxy on its own link,

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

because a client is generally able to perform its own Multicast DNS queries on that link. (The
exception to this is when the local Wi-Fi access point is blocking or ﬁltering local multicast traﬃc,
requiring even local clients to use their local Discovery Proxy to perform local discovery.)

A Discovery Proxy can be conﬁgured to generate Multicast DNS responses for the following
Multicast DNS Domain Enumeration queries issued by clients:

    b._dns-sd._udp.local.    PTR   ?
    db._dns-sd._udp.local.   PTR   ?
    lb._dns-sd._udp.local.   PTR   ?

This provides the ability for Discovery Proxies to indicate recommended browsing domains to
DNS-SD clients on a per-link granularity. In some enterprises, it may be preferable to provide this
per-link conﬁguration information in the form of Discovery Proxy conﬁguration data rather than
by populating the Unicast DNS servers with the same data (in the "ip6.arpa" or "in-addr.arpa"
domains).

Regardless of how the network operator chooses to provide this conﬁguration data, clients will
perform Domain Enumeration via both unicast and multicast queries and then combine the
results of these queries.

5.3.  Delegated Subdomain for LDH Host Names

DNS-SD service instance names and domains are allowed to contain arbitrary Net-Unicode text
[RFC5198]
[RFC3629]
.

, encoded as precomposed UTF-8

Users typically interact with service discovery software by viewing a list of discovered service
instance names on a display and selecting one of them by pointing, touching, or clicking.
Similarly, in software that provides a multi-domain DNS-SD user interface, users view a list of
oﬀered domains on the display and select one of them by pointing, touching, or clicking. To use a
service, users don't have to remember domain or instance names, or type them; users just have
to be able to recognize what they see on the display and touch or click on the thing they want.

In contrast, host names are often remembered and typed. Also, host names have historically
been used in command-line interfaces where spaces can be inconvenient. For this reason, host
names have traditionally been restricted to letters, digits, and hyphens (LDH) with no spaces or
other punctuation.

While we do want to allow rich text for DNS-SD service instance names and domains, it is
advisable, for maximum compatibility with existing usage, to restrict host names to the
traditional letter-digit-hyphen rules. This means that while the service name
"My Printer._ipp._tcp.Building 1.example.com" is acceptable and desirable (it is displayed in a
graphical user interface as an instance called "My Printer" in the domain "Building 1" at
"example.com"), the host name "My-Printer.Building 1.example.com" is less desirable (because of
the space in "Building 1").

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

To accommodate this diﬀerence in allowable characters, a Discovery Proxy
having two separate subdomains delegated to it for each link it serves: one whose name is
allowed to contain arbitrary Net-Unicode text
subdomain whose name is restricted to contain only letters, digits, and hyphens, to be used for
host name records (names of 'A' and 'AAAA' address records). The restricted names may be any
valid name consisting of only letters, digits, and hyphens, including Punycode-encoded names
.
[RFC3492]

, and a second more constrained

[RFC5198]

 support

SHOULD

For example, a Discovery Proxy could have the two subdomains "Building 1.example.com" and
"bldg‑1.example.com" delegated to it. The Discovery Proxy would then translate these two
Multicast DNS records:

   My Printer._ipp._tcp.local. SRV 0 0 631 prnt.local.
   prnt.local.                 A   203.0.113.2

into Unicast DNS records as follows:

   My Printer._ipp._tcp.Building 1.example.com.
                               SRV 0 0 631 prnt.bldg-1.example.com.
   prnt.bldg-1.example.com.     A   203.0.113.2

Note that the SRV record name is translated using the rich-text domain name
("Building 1.example.com"), and the address record name is translated using the LDH domain
("bldg‑1.example.com"). Further details of the name translation rules are described in Section 5.5.

MAY

 support only a single rich-text Net-Unicode domain and use that domain

A Discovery Proxy
for all records, including 'A' and 'AAAA' address records, but implementers choosing this option
should be aware that this choice may produce host names that are awkward to use in command-
line environments. Whether or not this is an issue depends on whether users in the target
environment are expected to be using command-line interfaces.

A Discovery Proxy
because that results in an unnecessarily poor user experience.

MUST NOT

 be restricted to support only a letter-digit-hyphen subdomain,

As described in Section 5.2.1, for clarity, in examples here space characters in names are shown
as actual spaces. If this dynamically discovered data were to be manually entered into a textual
zone ﬁle (which it isn't), then spaces would need to be represented using '\032', so
"My Printer._ipp._tcp.Building 1.example.com" would become "My\032Printer._ipp._tcp.Building
\0321.example.com".

Note that the '\032' representation does not appear in DNS messages sent over the air. In the wire
format of DNS messages, spaces are sent as spaces, not as '\032', and likewise, in a graphical user
interface at the client device, spaces are shown as spaces, not as '\032'.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

5.4.  Delegated Subdomain for Reverse Mapping

A Discovery Proxy can facilitate easier management of reverse mapping domains, particularly
for IPv6 addresses where manual management may be more onerous than it is for IPv4
addresses.

To achieve this, in the parent domain, NS records are used to delegate ownership of the
appropriate reverse mapping domain to the Discovery Proxy. In other words, the Discovery
Proxy becomes the authoritative name server for the reverse mapping domain. For fault
tolerance reasons, there may be more than one Discovery Proxy serving a given link.

If a given link is using the IPv4 subnet 203.0.113/24, then the domain "113.0.203.in-addr.arpa" is
delegated to the Discovery Proxy for that link.

If a given link is using the IPv6 preﬁx 2001:0DB8:1234:5678::/64, then the domain
"8.7.6.5.4.3.2.1.8.b.d.0.1.0.0.2.ip6.arpa" is delegated to the Discovery Proxy for that link.

When a reverse mapping query arrives at the Discovery Proxy, it issues the identical query on its
local link, as a Multicast DNS query. The mechanism to force an apparently unicast name to be
resolved using link-local Multicast DNS varies depending on the API set being used. For example,
in the "dns_sd.h" APIs (available on macOS, iOS, Bonjour for Windows, Linux, and Android),
using kDNSServiceFlagsForceMulticast indicates that the DNSServiceQueryRecord() call should
perform the query using Multicast DNS. Other API sets have diﬀerent ways of forcing multicast
queries. When the host owning that IPv4 or IPv6 address responds with a name of the form
"something.local", the Discovery Proxy rewrites it to use its conﬁgured LDH host name domain
instead of ".local" and returns the response to the caller.

For example, a Discovery Proxy with the two subdomains "113.0.203.in‑addr.arpa" and
"bldg‑1.example.com" delegated to it would translate this Multicast DNS record:

   2.113.0.203.in-addr.arpa. PTR prnt.local.

into this Unicast DNS response:

   2.113.0.203.in-addr.arpa. PTR prnt.bldg-1.example.com.

In this example the "prnt.local" host name is translated using the delegated LDH subdomain, as
described in Section 5.5.

Subsequent queries for the prnt.bldg‑1.example.com address record, falling as it does within the
bldg‑1.example.com domain, which is delegated to this Discovery Proxy, will arrive at this
Discovery Proxy where they are answered by issuing Multicast DNS queries and using the
received Multicast DNS answers to synthesize Unicast DNS responses, as described above.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

Note that this description assumes that all addresses on a given IPv4 subnet or IPv6 preﬁx are
mapped to host names using the Discovery Proxy mechanism. It would be possible to implement
a Discovery Proxy that can be conﬁgured so that some address-to-name mappings are performed
using Multicast DNS on the local link, while other address-to-name mappings within the same
IPv4 subnet or IPv6 preﬁx are conﬁgured manually.

5.5.  Data Translation

For the delegated rich-text and LDH subdomains, generating appropriate Multicast DNS queries
involves translating from the conﬁgured DNS domain (e.g., "Building 1.example.com") on the
Unicast DNS side to ".local" on the Multicast DNS side.

For the delegated reverse-mapping subdomain, generating appropriate Multicast DNS queries
involves using the appropriate API mechanism to indicate that a query should be performed
using Multicast DNS, as described in Section 5.4.

Generating appropriate Unicast DNS responses from the received Multicast DNS answers
involves translating back from ".local" to the appropriate conﬁgured Unicast DNS domain as
necessary, as described below.

In the examples below, the delegated subdomains are as follows:

Delegated subdomain for rich-text names       Building 1.example.com.
Delegated subdomain for LDH names                 bldg‑1.example.com.
Delegated subdomain for IPv4 reverse mapping  113.0.203.in-addr.arpa.

Names in Multicast DNS answers that do not end in ".local" do not require any translation.

Names in Multicast DNS answers that end in ".local" are only meaningful on the local link, and
require translation to make them useable by clients outside the local link.

Names that end in ".local" may appear both as the owner names of received Multicast DNS
answer records, and in the RDATA of received Multicast DNS answer records.

In a received Multicast DNS answer record, if the owner name ends with ".local", then the ".local"
top-level label is replaced with the name of the delegated subdomain as was used in the
originating query.

In a received Multicast DNS answer record, if a name in the RDATA ends with ".local", then the
name is translated according to the delegated subdomain that was used in the originating query,
as explained below.

For queries in subdomains delegated for LDH host names, ".local" names in RDATA are translated
to that delegated LDH subdomain. For example, a query for "thing.bldg‑1.example.com" will be
translated to a Multicast DNS query for "thing.local". If that query returns this CNAME record:

  thing.local.               CNAME  prnt.local.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

then both the owner name and the name in the RDATA are translated from ".local" to the LDH
subdomain "bldg‑1.example.com":

  thing.bldg‑1.example.com.  CNAME  prnt.bldg‑1.example.com.

For queries in subdomains delegated for reverse mapping names, ".local" names in RDATA are
translated to the delegated LDH subdomain, if one is conﬁgured, or to the delegated rich-text
subdomain otherwise. For example, consider a reverse mapping query that returns this PTR
record:

  2.113.0.203.in-addr.arpa.  PTR  prnt.local.

The owner name is not translated because it does not end in ".local". The name in the RDATA is
translated from ".local" to the LDH subdomain "bldg‑1.example.com":

  2.113.0.203.in-addr.arpa.  PTR  prnt.bldg‑1.example.com.

For queries in subdomains delegated for rich-text names, ".local" names in RDATA are translated
according to whether or not they represent host names (i.e., RDATA names that are the owner
names of A and AAAA DNS records). RDATA names ending in ".local" that represent host names
are translated to the delegated LDH subdomain, if one is conﬁgured, or to the delegated rich-text
subdomain otherwise. All other RDATA names ending in ".local" are translated to the delegated
rich-text subdomain. For example, consider a DNS-SD service browsing PTR query that returns
this PTR record for IPP printing:

  _ipp._tcp.local.  PTR  My Printer._ipp._tcp.local.

Both the owner name and the name in the RDATA are translated from ".local" to the rich-text
subdomain:

  _ipp._tcp.Building 1.example.com.
                    PTR  My Printer._ipp._tcp.Building 1.example.com.

In contrast, consider a query that returns this SRV record for a speciﬁc IPP printing instance:

  My Printer._ipp._tcp.local.  SRV  0 0 631 prnt.local.

As for all queries, the owner name is translated to the delegated subdomain of the originating
query, the delegated rich-text subdomain "Building 1.example.com". However, the ".local" name
in the RDATA is the target host name ﬁeld of an SRV record, a ﬁeld that is used exclusively for
host names. Consequently it is translated to the LDH subdomain "bldg‑1.example.com", if
conﬁgured, instead of the rich-text subdomain:

  My Printer._ipp._tcp.Building 1.example.com.
                               SRV  0 0 631 prnt.bldg‑1.example.com.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

Other beneﬁcial translation and ﬁltering operations are described below.

5.5.1.  DNS TTL Limiting

For eﬃciency, Multicast DNS typically uses moderately high DNS TTL values. For example, the
typical TTL on DNS-SD service browsing PTR records is 75 minutes. What makes these
moderately high TTLs acceptable is the cache coherency mechanisms built in to the Multicast
DNS protocol, which protect against stale data persisting for too long. When a service shuts down
gracefully, it sends goodbye packets to remove its service browsing PTR record(s) immediately
from neighboring caches. If a service shuts down abruptly without sending goodbye packets, the
Passive Observation Of Failures (POOF) mechanism described in
DNS speciﬁcation [RFC6762]

 comes into play to purge the cache of stale data.

Section 10.5 of the Multicast

A traditional Unicast DNS client on a distant remote link does not get to participate in these
Multicast DNS cache coherency mechanisms on the local link. For traditional Unicast DNS
queries (those received without using Long-Lived Queries (LLQ)
Notiﬁcation subscriptions
[RFC8765]
response
MUST

), the DNS TTLs reported in the resulting Unicast DNS

 be capped to be no more than ten seconds.

 or DNS Push

[RFC8764]

Similarly, for negative responses, the negative caching TTL indicated in the SOA record
[RFC2308]

 should also be ten seconds (see Section 6.1).

This value of ten seconds is chosen based on user-experience considerations.

For negative caching, suppose a user is attempting to access a remote device (e.g., a printer), and
they are unsuccessful because that device is powered oﬀ. Suppose they then place a telephone
call and ask for the device to be powered on. We want the device to become available to the user
within a reasonable time period. It is reasonable to expect it to take on the order of ten seconds
for a simple device with a simple embedded operating system to power on. Once the device is
powered on and has announced its presence on the network via Multicast DNS, we would like it
to take no more than a further ten seconds for stale negative cache entries to expire from Unicast
DNS caches, making the device available to the user desiring to access it.

Similar reasoning applies to capping positive TTLs at ten seconds. In the event of a device
moving location, getting a new DHCP address, or other renumbering events, we would like the
updated information to be available to remote clients in a relatively timely fashion.

However, network administrators should be aware that many recursive resolvers by default are
conﬁgured to impose a minimum TTL of 30 seconds. If stale data appears to be persisting in the
network to the extent that it adversely impacts user experience, network administrators are
advised to check the conﬁguration of their recursive resolvers.

For received Unicast DNS queries that use LLQ
the Multicast DNS record's TTL
channel exists to inform the remote client as records come and go. For further details about
Long-Lived Queries and its newer replacement, DNS Push Notiﬁcations, see Section 5.6.

 be returned unmodiﬁed, because the notiﬁcation

 or DNS Push Notiﬁcations

[RFC8764]

SHOULD

,
[RFC8765]

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

5.5.2.  Suppressing Unusable Records

A Discovery Proxy
 oﬀer a conﬁgurable option, enabled by default, to suppress Unicast
DNS answers for records that are not useful outside the local link. When the option to suppress
unusable records is enabled:

SHOULD

•

For a Discovery Proxy that is serving only clients outside the local link, DNS A and AAAA
records for IPv4 link-local addresses
[RFC4862]
SHOULD

 and IPv6 link-local addresses

 be suppressed.

[RFC3927]

•

Similarly, for sites that have multiple private address realms
Discovery Proxy can determine that the querying client is in a diﬀerent address realm,
private addresses

 be communicated to that client.

SHOULD NOT

[RFC1918]

, in cases where the

•

IPv6 Unique Local Addresses
Proxy can determine that the querying client is in a diﬀerent IPv6 address realm.

[RFC4193] SHOULD

 be suppressed in cases where the Discovery

•

By the same logic, DNS SRV records that reference target host names that have no addresses
usable by the requester should be suppressed, and likewise, DNS-SD service browsing PTR
records that point to unusable SRV records should similarly be suppressed.

5.5.3.  NSEC and NSEC3 Queries

Multicast DNS devices do not routinely announce their records on the network. Generally, they
remain silent until queried. This means that the complete set of Multicast DNS records in use on
a link can only be discovered by active querying, not by passive listening. Because of this, a
Discovery Proxy can only know what names exist on a link by issuing queries for them, and since
it would be impractical to issue queries for every possible name just to ﬁnd out which names
exist and which do not, a Discovery Proxy cannot programmatically generate the traditional
 records that assert the nonexistence of a
Unicast DNS NSEC
[RFC5155]
large range of names.

 and NSEC3

[RFC4034]

When queried for an NSEC or NSEC3 record type, the Discovery Proxy issues a qtype "ANY" query
using Multicast DNS on the local link and then generates an NSEC or NSEC3 response with a Type
Bit Map signifying which record types do and do not exist for just the speciﬁc name queried, and
no other names.

Multicast DNS NSEC records received on the local link
unicast querier, because there are slight diﬀerences in the NSEC record data. In particular,
Multicast DNS NSEC records do not have the NSEC bit set in the Type Bit Map, whereas
conventional Unicast DNS NSEC records do have the NSEC bit set.

MUST NOT

 be forwarded unmodiﬁed to a

5.5.4.  No Text-Encoding Translation

A Discovery Proxy does no translation between text encodings. Speciﬁcally, a Discovery Proxy
, either
does no translation between Punycode encoding
in the owner name of DNS records or anywhere in the RDATA of DNS records (such as the RDATA
of PTR records, SRV records, NS records, or other record types like TXT, where it is ambiguous
whether the RDATA may contain DNS names). All bytes are treated as-is with no attempt at text-
encoding translation. A client implementing DNS-based Service Discovery

 and UTF-8 encoding

[RFC3492]

[RFC3629]

[RFC6763]

 will use

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

UTF-8 encoding for its unicast DNS-based Service Discovery queries, which the Discovery Proxy
passes through without any text-encoding translation to the Multicast DNS subsystem. Responses
from the Multicast DNS subsystem are similarly returned, without any text-encoding translation,
back to the requesting unicast client.

5.5.5.  Application-Speciﬁc Data Translation

There may be cases where Application-Speciﬁc Data Translation is appropriate.

For example, AirPrint printers tend to advertise fairly verbose information about their
capabilities in their DNS-SD TXT record. TXT record sizes in the range of 500-1000 bytes are not
uncommon. This information is a legacy from lineprinter (LPR) printing, because LPR does not
have in-band capability negotiation, so all of this information is conveyed using the DNS-SD TXT
record instead. Internet Printing Protocol (IPP) printing does have in-band capability negotiation,
but for convenience, printers tend to include the same capability information in their IPP DNS-
SD TXT records as well. For local Multicast DNS (mDNS) use, this extra TXT record information is
wasteful but not fatal. However, when a Discovery Proxy aggregates data from multiple printers
on a link, and sends it via unicast (via UDP or TCP), this amount of unnecessary TXT record
information can result in large responses. A DNS reply over TCP carrying information about 70
printers with an average of 700 bytes per printer adds up to about 50 kilobytes of data.
Therefore, a Discovery Proxy that is aware of the speciﬁcs of an application-layer protocol such
as AirPrint (which uses IPP) can elide unnecessary key/value pairs from the DNS-SD TXT record
for better network eﬃciency.

Also, the DNS-SD TXT record for many printers contains an "adminurl" key (e.g.,
"adminurl=http://printername.local/status.html"). For this URL to be useful outside the local link,
the embedded ".local" host name needs to be translated to an appropriate name with larger
scope. It is easy to translate ".local" names when they appear in well-deﬁned places: as a record's
owner name, or in domain name ﬁelds in the RDATA of record types like PTR and SRV. In the
printing case, some application-speciﬁc knowledge about the semantics of the "adminurl" key is
needed for the Discovery Proxy to know that it contains a name that needs to be translated. This
is somewhat analogous to the need for NAT gateways to contain ALGs (Application-Level
Gateways) to facilitate the correct translation of protocols that embed addresses in unexpected
places.

To avoid the need for application-speciﬁc knowledge about the semantics of particular TXT
record keys, protocol designers are advised to avoid placing link-local names or link-local IP
addresses in TXT record keys if translation of those names or addresses would be required for
oﬀ-link operation. In the printing case, the consequence of failing to translate the "adminurl" key
correctly would be that, when accessed from a diﬀerent link, printing will still work, but clicking
the "Admin" user interface button will fail to open the printer's administration page. Rather than
duplicating the host name from the service's SRV record in its "adminurl" key, thereby having the
same host name appear in two places, a better design might have been to omit the host name
from the "adminurl" key and instead have the client implicitly substitute the target host name
from the service's SRV record in place of a missing host name in the "adminurl" key. That way,
the desired host name only appears once and is in a well-deﬁned place where software like the
Discovery Proxy is expecting to ﬁnd it.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

Note that this kind of Application-Speciﬁc Data Translation is expected to be very rare; it is the
exception rather than the rule. This is an example of a common theme in computing. It is
frequently the case that it is wise to start with a clean, layered design with clear boundaries.
Then, in certain special cases, those layer boundaries may be violated where the performance
and eﬃciency beneﬁts outweigh the inelegance of the layer violation.

These layer violations are optional. They are done primarily for eﬃciency reasons and generally
should not be required for correct operation. A Discovery Proxy
 operate solely at the mDNS
layer without any knowledge of semantics at the DNS-SD layer or above.

MAY

5.6.  Answer Aggregation

In a simple analysis, simply gathering multicast answers and forwarding them in a unicast
response seems adequate, but it raises the question of how long the Discovery Proxy should wait
to be sure that it has received all the Multicast DNS answers it needs to form a complete Unicast
DNS response. If it waits too little time, then it risks its Unicast DNS response being incomplete. If
it waits too long, then it creates a poor user experience at the client end. In fact, there may be no
time that is both short enough to produce a good user experience and at the same time long
enough to reliably produce complete results.

Similarly, the Discovery Proxy (the authoritative name server for the subdomain in question)
needs to decide what DNS TTL to report for these records. If the TTL is too long, then the
recursive resolvers issuing queries on behalf of their clients risk caching stale data for too long.
If the TTL is too short, then the amount of network traﬃc will be more than necessary. In fact,
there may be no TTL that is both short enough to avoid undesirable stale data and, at the same
time, long enough to be eﬃcient on the network.

Both these dilemmas are solved by the use of DNS Long-Lived Queries (LLQ)
newer replacement, DNS Push Notiﬁcations

[RFC8765]

.

[RFC8764]

 or its

Clients supporting unicast DNS-based Service Discovery
Notiﬁcations

 for improved user experience.

[RFC8765]

SHOULD

 implement DNS Push

Clients and Discovery Proxies
talking to a Discovery Proxy that supports both, the client may use either protocol, as it chooses,
though it is expected that only DNS Push Notiﬁcations will continue to be supported in the long
run.

 support both LLQ and DNS Push Notiﬁcations, and when

MAY

When a Discovery Proxy receives a query using LLQ or DNS Push Notiﬁcations, it responds
immediately using the Multicast DNS records it already has in its cache (if any). This provides a
good client user experience by providing a near-instantaneous response. Simultaneously, the
Discovery Proxy issues a Multicast DNS query on the local link to discover if there are any
additional Multicast DNS records it did not already know about. Should additional Multicast DNS
responses be received, these are then delivered to the client using additional LLQ or DNS Push
Notiﬁcation update messages. The timeliness of such update messages is limited only by the
timeliness of the device responding to the Multicast DNS query. If the Multicast DNS device
responds quickly, then the update message is delivered quickly. If the Multicast DNS device

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

responds slowly, then the update message is delivered slowly. The beneﬁt of using multiple
update messages to deliver results as they become available is that the Discovery Proxy can
respond promptly because it doesn't have to deliver all the results in a single response that needs
to be delayed to allow for the expected worst-case delay for receiving all the Multicast DNS
responses.

With a proxy that supported only standard DNS queries, even if it were to try to provide
reliability by assuming an excessively pessimistic worst-case time (thereby giving a very poor
user experience), there would still be the risk of a slow Multicast DNS device taking even longer
than that worst-case time (e.g., a device that is not even powered on until ten seconds after the
initial query is received), resulting in incomplete responses. Using update messages to deliver
subsequent asynchronous replies solves this dilemma: even very late responses are not lost; they
are delivered in subsequent update messages.

Note that while normal DNS queries are generally received via the client's conﬁgured recursive
resolver, LLQ and DNS Push Notiﬁcation subscriptions may be received directly from the client.

There are two factors that determine how unicast responses are generated:

The ﬁrst factor is whether or not the Discovery Proxy already has at least one record in its cache
that answers the question.

The second factor is whether the client used a normal DNS query, or established a subscription
using LLQ or DNS Push Notiﬁcations. Normal DNS queries are typically used for one-shot
operations like SRV or address record queries. LLQ and DNS Push Notiﬁcation subscriptions are
typically used for long-lived service browsing PTR queries. Normal DNS queries and LLQ each
have diﬀerent response timing depending on the cache state, yielding the ﬁrst four cases listed
below. DNS Push Notiﬁcations, the newer protocol, has uniform behavior regardless of cache
state, yielding the ﬁfth case listed below.

•

Standard DNS query; no answer in cache:

Issue an mDNS query on the local link, exactly as a local client would issue an mDNS query,
for the desired record name, type, and class, including retransmissions, as appropriate,
according to the established mDNS retransmission schedule
awaits Multicast DNS responses.

. The Discovery Proxy

[RFC6762]

As soon as any Multicast DNS response packet is received that contains one or more positive
answers to that question (with or without the Cache Flush bit
answer (signiﬁed via a Multicast DNS NSEC record
[RFC6762]
a Unicast DNS response message containing the corresponding (ﬁltered and translated)
answers and sends it to the remote client.

[RFC6762]
), the Discovery Proxy generates

 set) or a negative

If after six seconds no relevant Multicast DNS answers have been received, cancel the mDNS
query and return a negative response to the remote client. Six seconds is enough time for the
underlying Multicast DNS subsystem to transmit three mDNS queries and allow some time
for responses to arrive.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

(Reasoning: Queries not using LLQ or Push Notiﬁcations are generally queries that expect an
answer from only one device, so the ﬁrst response is also the only response.)

DNS TTLs in responses

MUST

 be capped to at most ten seconds.

•

Standard DNS query; at least one answer in cache:

No local mDNS queries are performed.

The Discovery Proxy generates a Unicast DNS response message containing the answer(s)
from the cache right away, to minimize delay.

(Reasoning: Queries not using LLQ or Push Notiﬁcations are generally queries that expect an
answer from only one device. Given RRSet TTL harmonization, if the proxy has one Multicast
DNS answer in its cache, it can reasonably assume that it has the whole set.)

DNS TTLs in responses

MUST

 be capped to at most ten seconds.

•

Long-Lived Query (LLQ); no answer in cache:

As in the case above with no answer in the cache, plan to perform mDNS querying for six
seconds, returning an LLQ response message to the remote client as soon as any relevant
mDNS response is received.

If after six seconds no relevant mDNS answers have been received, and the client has not
cancelled its Long-Lived Query, return a negative LLQ response message to the remote client.

(Reasoning: We don't need to rush to send an empty answer.)

Regardless of whether or not a relevant mDNS response is received within six seconds, the
Long-Lived Query remains active for as long as the client maintains the LLQ state, and
results in the ongoing transmission of mDNS queries until the Long-Lived Query is cancelled.
If the set of mDNS answers changes, LLQ Event Response messages are sent.

DNS TTLs in responses are returned unmodiﬁed.

•

Long-Lived Query (LLQ); at least one answer in cache:

As in the case above with at least one answer in the cache, the Discovery Proxy generates a
unicast LLQ response message containing the answer(s) from the cache right away, to
minimize delay.

The Long-Lived Query remains active for as long as the client maintains the LLQ state, and
results in the transmission of mDNS queries (with appropriate Known Answer lists) to
determine if further answers are available. If the set of mDNS answers changes, LLQ Event
Response messages are sent.

(Reasoning: We want a user interface that is displayed very rapidly yet continues to remain
accurate even as the network environment changes.)

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

DNS TTLs in responses are returned unmodiﬁed.

•

Push Notiﬁcation Subscription

The Discovery Proxy acknowledges the subscription request immediately.

If one or more answers are already available in the cache, those answers are then sent in an
immediately following DNS PUSH message.

The Push Notiﬁcation subscription remains active until the client cancels the subscription,
and results in the transmission of mDNS queries (with appropriate Known Answer lists) to
determine if further answers are available. If the set of mDNS answers changes, further DNS
PUSH messages are sent.

(Reasoning: We want a user interface that is displayed very rapidly yet continues to remain
accurate even as the network environment changes.)

DNS TTLs in responses are returned unmodiﬁed.

Where the text above refers to returning "a negative response to the remote client", it is
describing returning a "no error no answer" negative response, not NXDOMAIN. This is because
the Discovery Proxy cannot know all the Multicast DNS domain names that may exist on a link at
any given time, so any name with no answers may have child names that do exist, making it an
"empty non-terminal" name.

Note that certain aspects of the behavior described here do not have to be implemented overtly
by the Discovery Proxy; they occur naturally as a result of using existing Multicast DNS APIs.

For example, in the ﬁrst case above (standard DNS query and no answers in the cache), if a new
Multicast DNS query is requested (either by a local client on the Discovery Proxy device, or by the
Discovery Proxy software on that device on behalf of a remote client), and there is not already an
identical Multicast DNS query active and there are no matching answers already in the Multicast
DNS cache on the Discovery Proxy device, then this will cause a series of Multicast DNS query
packets to be issued with exponential backoﬀ. The exponential backoﬀ sequence in some
implementations starts at one second and then doubles for each retransmission (0, 1, 3, 7
seconds, etc.), and in others, it starts at one second and then triples for each retransmission (0, 1,
4, 13 seconds, etc.). In either case, if no response has been received after six seconds, that is long
enough that the underlying Multicast DNS implementation will have sent three query packets
without receiving any response. At that point, the Discovery Proxy cancels its Multicast DNS
query (so no further Multicast DNS query packets will be sent for this query) and returns a
negative response to the remote client via unicast.

The six-second delay is chosen to be long enough to give enough time for devices to respond, yet
short enough not to be too onerous for a human user waiting for a response. For example, using
the "dig" DNS debugging tool, the current default settings result in it waiting a total of 15 seconds
for a reply (three transmissions of the DNS UDP query packet, with a wait of 5 seconds after each
packet), which is ample time for it to have received a negative reply from a Discovery Proxy after
six seconds.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

The text above states that for a standard DNS query, if at least one answer is already available in
the cache, then a Discovery Proxy should not issue additional mDNS query packets. This also
occurs naturally as a result of using existing Multicast DNS APIs. If a new Multicast DNS query is
requested (either locally, or by the Discovery Proxy on behalf of a remote client) for which there
are relevant answers already in the Multicast DNS cache on the Discovery Proxy device, and
after the answers are delivered the Multicast DNS query is immediately cancelled, then no
Multicast DNS query packets will be generated for this query.

6.  Administrative DNS Records

6.1.  DNS SOA (Start of Authority) Record

The MNAME ﬁeld
 contain the host name of the Discovery Proxy device (i.e., the same
domain name as the RDATA of the NS record delegating the relevant zone(s) to this Discovery
Proxy device).

SHOULD

The RNAME ﬁeld
Discovery Proxy device.

SHOULD

 contain the mailbox of the person responsible for administering this

The SERIAL ﬁeld

MUST

 be zero.

Zone transfers are undeﬁned for Discovery Proxy zones, and consequently, the REFRESH, RETRY,
and EXPIRE ﬁelds have no useful meaning for Discovery Proxy zones. These ﬁelds
contain reasonable default values. The
and EXPIRE 86400.

 values are: REFRESH 7200, RETRY 3600,

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

The MINIMUM ﬁeld (used to control the lifetime of negative cache entries)
value 10. This value is chosen based on user-experience considerations (see Section 5.5.1).

SHOULD

 contain the

In the event that there are multiple Discovery Proxy devices on a link for fault tolerance reasons,
this will result in clients receiving inconsistent SOA records (diﬀerent MNAME and possibly
RNAME) depending on which Discovery Proxy answers their SOA query. However, since clients
generally have no reason to use the MNAME or RNAME data, this is unlikely to cause any
problems.

6.2.  DNS NS Records

In the event that there are multiple Discovery Proxy devices on a link for fault tolerance reasons,
 be conﬁgured with NS records giving the names of all the Discovery Proxy
the parent zone
devices on the link.

MUST

Each Discovery Proxy device
by giving its own NS record, and the NS records of its fellow Discovery Proxy devices on the same
link, so that it can return the correct answers for NS queries.

 be conﬁgured to answer NS queries for the zone apex name

MUST

The target host name in the RDATA of an NS record
any zone delegated to a Discovery Proxy. Apart from the zone apex name, all other host names
(names of A and AAAA DNS records) that fall within a zone delegated to a Discovery Proxy

 reference a name that falls within

MUST NOT

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

correspond to local Multicast DNS host names, which logically belong to the respective Multicast
DNS hosts defending those names, not the Discovery Proxy. Generally speaking, the Discovery
Proxy does not own or control the delegated zone; it is merely a conduit to the corresponding
".local" namespace, which is controlled by the Multicast DNS hosts on that link. If an NS record
were to reference a manually determined host name that falls within a delegated zone, that
manually determined host name may inadvertently conﬂict with a corresponding ".local" host
name that is owned and controlled by some device on that link.

6.3.  DNS Delegation Records

Multicast DNS speciﬁcation [RFC6762]

Since the
(subdomains) within a ".local" namespace, this implies that any name within a zone delegated to
a Discovery Proxy (except for the zone apex name itself) cannot have any answers for any DNS
queries for RRTYPEs SOA, NS, or DS. Consequently:

 states that there can be no delegation

•

for any query for the zone apex name of a zone delegated to a Discovery Proxy, the
Discovery Proxy

 generate the appropriate immediate answers as described above, and

MUST

•

for any query for any name below the zone apex, for RRTYPEs SOA, NS, or DS, the Discovery
Proxy

 generate an immediate negative answer.

MUST

6.4.  DNS SRV Records

There are certain special DNS records that logically fall within the delegated Unicast DNS
subdomain, but rather than mapping to their corresponding ".local" namesakes, they actually
contain metadata pertaining to the operation of the delegated Unicast DNS subdomain itself.
They do not exist in the corresponding ".local" namespace of the local link. For these queries, a
Discovery Proxy
delays while clients wait for their query to be answered.

 generate immediate answers, whether positive or negative, to avoid

MUST

For example, if a Discovery Proxy implements Long-Lived Queries
positively respond to _dns‑llq._udp.<zone> SRV queries, _dns‑llq._tcp.<zone> SRV queries,
and _dns‑llq‑tls._tcp.<zone> SRV queries as appropriate. If it does not implement Long-
Lived Queries, it
passing those queries through to the local network as Multicast DNS queries and then waiting
unsuccessfully for answers that will not be forthcoming.

 return an immediate negative answer for those queries, instead of

[RFC8764]

, then it

MUST

MUST

If a Discovery Proxy implements DNS Push Notiﬁcations
respond to _dns‑push‑tls._tcp.<zone> queries. Otherwise, it
negative answer for those queries.

[RFC8765]

, then it

MUST

 positively
 return an immediate

MUST

MUST

 return an immediate negative answer for

A Discovery Proxy
_dns‑update._udp.<zone> SRV queries, _dns‑update._tcp.<zone> SRV queries, and
_dns‑update-tls._tcp.<zone> SRV queries, since using DNS Update
generated dynamically from local Multicast DNS data is not possible.

[RFC2136]

 to change zones

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

6.5.  Domain Enumeration Records

If the network operator chooses to use address-based unicast Domain Enumeration queries for
client conﬁguration (see Section 5.2.1), and the network operator also chooses to delegate the
enclosing reverse mapping subdomain to a Discovery Proxy, then that Discovery Proxy becomes
responsible for serving the answers to those address-based unicast Domain Enumeration
queries.

As with the SRV metadata records described above, a Discovery Proxy conﬁgured with delegated
reverse mapping subdomains is responsible for generating immediate (positive or negative)
answers for address-based unicast Domain Enumeration queries, rather than passing them
though to the underlying Multicast DNS subsystem and then waiting unsuccessfully for answers
that will not be forthcoming.

7.  DNSSEC Considerations

7.1.  Online Signing Only

The Discovery Proxy acts as the authoritative name server for designated subdomains, and if
DNSSEC is to be used, the Discovery Proxy needs to possess a copy of the signing keys in order to
generate authoritative signed data from the local Multicast DNS responses it receives. Oﬄine
signing is not applicable to Discovery Proxy.

7.2.  NSEC and NSEC3 Records

In DNSSEC, NSEC and NSEC3 records are used to assert the nonexistence of certain names, also
described as "authenticated denial of existence"

[RFC4034] [RFC5155]

.

Since a Discovery Proxy only knows what names exist on the local link by issuing queries for
them, and since it would be impractical to issue queries for every possible name just to ﬁnd out
which names exist and which do not, a Discovery Proxy cannot programmatically synthesize the
traditional NSEC and NSEC3 records that assert the nonexistence of a large range of names.
Instead, when generating a negative response, a Discovery Proxy programmatically synthesizes a
single NSEC record asserting the nonexistence of just the speciﬁc name queried and no others.
Since the Discovery Proxy has the zone signing key, it can do this on demand. Since the NSEC
record asserts the nonexistence of only a single name, zone walking is not a concern, and NSEC3
is therefore not necessary.

Note that this applies only to traditional immediate DNS queries, which may return immediate
negative answers when no immediate positive answer is available. When used with a DNS Push
Notiﬁcation subscription
answers so far, which may change in the future if answers become available.

, there are no negative answers, merely the absence of

[RFC8765]

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

8.  IPv6 Considerations

[IEEE-3]

, neither is aware of the other's traﬃc. For this reason, each link

An IPv4-only host and an IPv6-only host behave as "ships that pass in the night". Even if they are
on the same Ethernet
may have two unrelated ".local." zones: one for IPv4 and one for IPv6. Since, for practical
purposes, a group of IPv4-only hosts and a group of IPv6-only hosts on the same Ethernet act as if
they were on two entirely separate Ethernet segments, it is unsurprising that their use of the
".local." zone should occur exactly as it would if they really were on two entirely separate
Ethernet segments.

It will be desirable to have a mechanism to "stitch" together these two unrelated ".local." zones so
that they appear as one. Such a mechanism will need to be able to diﬀerentiate between a dual-
stack (v4/v6) host participating in both ".local." zones, and two diﬀerent hosts: one IPv4-only and
the other IPv6-only, which are both trying to use the same name(s). Such a mechanism will be
speciﬁed in a future companion document.

RECOMMENDED

At present, it is
 that a Discovery Proxy be conﬁgured with a single domain name
for both the IPv4 and IPv6 ".local." zones on the local link, and when a unicast query is received,
it should issue Multicast DNS queries using both IPv4 and IPv6 on the local link and then
combine the results.

9.  Security Considerations

9.1.  Authenticity

A service proves its presence on a link by its ability to answer link-local multicast queries on that
link. If greater security is desired, then the Discovery Proxy mechanism should not be used, and
something with stronger security should be used instead such as authenticated secure DNS
Update

[RFC2136] [RFC3007]

.

9.2.  Privacy

The Domain Name System is, generally speaking, a global public database. Records that exist in
the Domain Name System name hierarchy can be queried by name from, in principle, anywhere
in the world. If services on a mobile device (like a laptop computer) are made visible via the
Discovery Proxy mechanism, then when those services become visible in a domain such as
"My House.example.com", it might indicate to (potentially hostile) observers that the mobile
device is in the owner's home. When those services disappear from "My House.example.com",
that change could be used by observers to infer when the mobile device (and possibly its owner)
may have left the house. The privacy of this information may be protected using techniques like
ﬁrewalls, split-view DNS, and Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), as are customarily used today to
protect the privacy of corporate DNS information.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

The privacy issue is particularly serious for the IPv4 and IPv6 reverse zones. If the public
delegation of the reverse zones points to the Discovery Proxy, and the Discovery Proxy is
reachable globally, then it could leak a signiﬁcant amount of information. Attackers could
discover hosts that otherwise might not be easy to identify, and learn their host names. Attackers
could also discover the existence of links where hosts frequently come and go.

The Discovery Proxy could provide sensitive records only to authenticated users. This is a
general DNS problem, not speciﬁc to the Discovery Proxy. Work is underway in the IETF to tackle
this problem

[RFC7626]

.

9.3.  Denial of Service

MUST

[MCAST]

 implement Multicast DNS query rate limiting appropriate to the link technology in

A remote attacker could use a rapid series of unique Unicast DNS queries to induce a Discovery
Proxy to generate a rapid series of corresponding Multicast DNS queries on one or more of its
local links. Multicast traﬃc is generally more expensive than unicast traﬃc, especially on Wi-Fi
, which makes this attack particularly serious. To limit the damage that can be
links
caused by such attacks, a Discovery Proxy (or the underlying Multicast DNS subsystem that it
utilizes)
question. For today's 802.11b/g/n/ac Wi-Fi links (for which approximately 200 multicast packets
per second is suﬃcient to consume approximately 100% of the wireless spectrum), a limit of 20
Multicast DNS query packets per second is
Gigabit Ethernet, higher limits may be appropriate. A consequence of this rate limiting is that a
rogue remote client could issue an excessive number of queries resulting in denial of service to
other legitimate remote clients attempting to use that Discovery Proxy. However, this is
preferable to a rogue remote client being able to inﬂict even greater harm on the local network,
which could impact the correct operation of all local clients on that network.

. On other link technologies like

RECOMMENDED

10.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC1918]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

.

,

,

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation" STD 13
,
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

.

,

,

Rekhter, Y., Moskowitz, B., Karrenberg, D., de Groot, G. J., and E. Lear "Address
,
Allocation for Private Internets" BCP 5 RFC 1918 DOI 10.17487/RFC1918
February 1996,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1918>

,

,

.

,

,

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

[RFC2119]

[RFC2308]

[RFC3629]

[RFC3927]

[RFC4034]

[RFC4862]

[RFC5155]

[RFC5198]

[RFC6762]

[RFC6763]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8490]

[RFC8765]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Andrews, M. "Negative Caching of DNS Queries (DNS NCACHE)" RFC 2308 DOI
10.17487/RFC2308

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2308>

, March 1998,

,
.

,

,

,
Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

.

,

,

,
Cheshire, S., Aboba, B., and E. Guttman "Dynamic Conﬁguration of IPv4 Link-
Local Addresses" RFC 3927 DOI 10.17487/RFC3927
.
editor.org/info/rfc3927>

, May 2005,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "Resource Records for
,
the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4034 DOI 10.17487/RFC4034
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4034>

, March 2005,

,

.

,

Thomson, S., Narten, T., and T. Jinmei "IPv6 Stateless Address
,
Autoconﬁguration" RFC 4862 DOI 10.17487/RFC4862
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4862>

.

,

,

, September 2007,

<https://

Laurie, B., Sisson, G., Arends, R., and D. Blacka "DNS Security (DNSSEC) Hashed
,
Authenticated Denial of Existence" RFC 5155 DOI 10.17487/RFC5155
2008,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5155>

, March

.

,

,
Klensin, J. and M. Padlipsky "Unicode Format for Network Interchange" RFC
, March 2008,
,
5198 DOI 10.17487/RFC5198
rfc5198>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

.

,

,
Cheshire, S. and M. Krochmal "Multicast DNS" RFC 6762 DOI 10.17487/RFC6762
February 2013,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6762>

,

,

Cheshire, S. and M. Krochmal "DNS-Based Service Discovery" RFC 6763 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6763>
10.17487/RFC6763

, February 2013,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Bellis, R., Cheshire, S., Dickinson, J., Dickinson, S., Lemon, T., and T. Pusateri
,
"DNS Stateful Operations" RFC 8490 DOI 10.17487/RFC8490
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8490>

, March 2019,

,

.

,

Pusateri, T. and S. Cheshire "DNS Push Notiﬁcations" RFC 8765 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8765

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8765>

, June 2020,

.

,

,

,

11.2.  Informative References

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

[DNS-UL]

[IEEE-1Q]

[IEEE-3]

[IEEE-5]

[IEEE-11]

Cheshire, S. and T. Lemon "Dynamic DNS Update Leases" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-sekar-dns-ul-02
draft-sekar-dns-ul-02>

, 2 August 2018,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/

,

,

,

.

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks -- Bridges and
Bridged Networks" IEEE Std 802.1Q-2014 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2014.6991462
,
2014,

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6991462>

,

,

.

,
IEEE "IEEE Standard for Ethernet" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2018.8457469 IEEE Std
802.3-2018

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8457469>

, December 2008,

,

,

.

,

IEEE "Telecommunications and information exchange between systems - Local
and metropolitan area networks - Part 5: Token ring access method and physical
,
layer speciﬁcations" IEEE Std 802.5-1998
standard/802_5-1998.html>

<https://standards.ieee.org/

, 1998,

.

,

IEEE "Information technology - Telecommunications and information exchange
between systems - Local and metropolitan area networks - Speciﬁc
requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and
,
Physical Layer (PHY) Speciﬁcations" IEEE Std 802.11-2016
<https://standards.ieee.org/standard/802_11-2016.html>

, December 2016,

.

[MCAST]

Perkins, C., McBride, M., Stanley, D., Kumari, W., and J. Zuniga "Multicast
,
,
Considerations over IEEE 802 Wireless Media" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
, 11 December 2019,
<https://
draft-ietf-mboned-ieee802-mcast-problems-11
.
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-mboned-ieee802-mcast-problems-11>

,

[OHP]

[REG-PROT]

[RELAY]

[RFC2132]

[RFC2136]

[RFC3007]

"ohybridproxy - an mDNS/DNS hybrid-proxy based on mDNSResponder"
commit 464d6c9

<https://github.com/sbyx/ohybridproxy/>

, June 2017,

.

,

Cheshire, S. and T. Lemon "Service Registration Protocol for DNS-Based Service
,
Discovery" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-sctl-service-registration-02
15 July 2018,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-sctl-service-registration-02>

,

.

,

,

Cheshire, S. and T. Lemon "Multicast DNS Discovery Relay" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-sctl-dnssd-mdns-relay-04
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-sctl-dnssd-mdns-relay-04>

, 21 March 2018,

<https://

.

,

,

,

,
Alexander, S. and R. Droms "DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions" RFC
, March 1997,
,
2132 DOI 10.17487/RFC2132
rfc2132>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

.

,

Vixie, P., Ed., Thomson, S., Rekhter, Y., and J. Bound "Dynamic Updates in the
,
Domain Name System (DNS UPDATE)" RFC 2136 DOI 10.17487/RFC2136
1997,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2136>

, April

,

.

,

,

,
Wellington, B. "Secure Domain Name System (DNS) Dynamic Update" RFC 3007
DOI 10.17487/RFC3007
rfc3007>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2000,

,

.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

[RFC3492]

[RFC4193]

[RFC6760]

[RFC7558]

[RFC7626]

[RFC7788]

[RFC8375]

[RFC8764]

[ROADMAP]

[ZC]

,

Costello, A. "Punycode: A Bootstring encoding of Unicode for Internationalized
Domain Names in Applications (IDNA)" RFC 3492 DOI 10.17487/RFC3492
,
2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3492>

,

.

, March

Hinden, R. and B. Haberman "Unique Local IPv6 Unicast Addresses" RFC 4193
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4193>
DOI 10.17487/RFC4193
.

,
, October 2005,

,

Cheshire, S. and M. Krochmal "Requirements for a Protocol to Replace the
AppleTalk Name Binding Protocol (NBP)" RFC 6760 DOI 10.17487/RFC6760
February 2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6760>

,

,

,

.

,

Lynn, K., Cheshire, S., Blanchet, M., and D. Migault "Requirements for Scalable
DNS-Based Service Discovery (DNS-SD) / Multicast DNS (mDNS) Extensions" RFC
7558 DOI 10.17487/RFC7558
,
rfc7558>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2015,

,

,

.

Bortzmeyer, S. "DNS Privacy Considerations" RFC 7626 DOI 10.17487/RFC7626
August 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7626>

,

,

,

.

,

Stenberg, M., Barth, S., and P. Pﬁster "Home Networking Control Protocol" RFC
7788 DOI 10.17487/RFC7788
,
rfc7788>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, April 2016,

,

,

.

Pﬁster, P. and T. Lemon "Special-Use Domain 'home.arpa.'" RFC 8375 DOI
10.17487/RFC8375

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8375>

,
, May 2018,

,

.

Cheshire, S. and M. Krochmal "Apple's DNS Long-Lived Queries Protocol" RFC
,
8764 DOI 10.17487/RFC8764
rfc8764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2020,

.

,

,

,

Cheshire, S. "Service Discovery Road Map" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-cheshire-dnssd-roadmap-03
draft-cheshire-dnssd-roadmap-03>

,
, 23 October 2018,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/

.

,

Cheshire, S. and D.H. Steinberg "Zero Conﬁguration Networking: The Deﬁnitive
Guide" O'Reilly Media, Inc. ISBN 0-596-10100-7

, December 2005.

,

,

,

Appendix A.  Implementation Status

Some aspects of the mechanism speciﬁed in this document already exist in deployed software.
Some aspects are new. This section outlines which aspects already exist and which are new.

A.1.  Already Implemented and Deployed

Domain enumeration by the client ("b._dns-sd._udp.<zone>" queries) is already implemented and
deployed.

Performing unicast queries to the indicated discovery domain is already implemented and
deployed.

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

These are implemented and deployed in Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger and later (including all versions of
Apple iOS, on all models of iPhones, iPads, Apple TVs and HomePods), in Bonjour for Windows,
and in Android 4.1 "Jelly Bean" (API Level 16) and later.

Domain enumeration and unicast querying have been used for several years at IETF meetings to
make terminal room printers discoverable from outside the terminal room. When an IETF
attendee presses "Cmd‑P" on a Mac, or selects AirPrint on an iPad or iPhone, and the terminal
room printers appear, it is because the client is sending Unicast DNS queries to the IETF DNS
servers. A walk-through giving the details of this particular speciﬁc example is given in
A of the Roadmap document [ROADMAP]

Appendix

.

The Long-Lived Query mechanism
deployed but was not standardized by the IETF. The IETF has developed a superior Long-Lived
Query mechanism called DNS Push Notiﬁcations
Operations
and later, and iOS 13 and later.

. DNS Push Notiﬁcations is implemented and deployed in Mac OS X 10.15

 referred to in this speciﬁcation exists and is

, which is built on DNS Stateful

[RFC8764]

[RFC8765]

[RFC8490]

A.2.  Already Implemented

A minimal portable Discovery Proxy implementation has been produced by Markus Stenberg
and Steven Barth, which runs on OS X and several Linux variants including OpenWrt
was demonstrated at the Berlin IETF in July 2013.

[OHP]

. It

Tom Pusateri has an implementation that runs on any Unix/Linux system. It has a RESTful
interface for management and an experimental demo command-line interface (CLI) and web
interface.

Ted Lemon also has produced a portable implementation of Discovery Proxy, which is available
in the mDNSResponder open source code.

A.3.  Partially Implemented

At the time of writing, existing APIs make multiple domains visible to client software, but most
client user interfaces lump all discovered services into a single ﬂat list. This is largely a chicken-
and-egg problem. Application writers were naturally reluctant to spend time writing domain-
aware user interface code when few customers would beneﬁt from it. If Discovery Proxy
deployment becomes common, then application writers will have a reason to provide a better
user experience. Existing applications will work with the Discovery Proxy but will show all
services in a single ﬂat list. Applications with improved user interfaces will show services
grouped by domain.

Acknowledgments

Markus Stenberg

Thanks to
response according to what data is immediately available in the cache. Thanks to
,
Ben Campbell Tim Chown Alissa Cooper Spencer Dawkins Ralph Droms Joel Halpern Ray

 for helping develop the policy regarding the four styles of unicast

Anders Brandt

,

,

,

,

,

,

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8766

Multicast Service Discovery Proxy

June 2020

,

Hunter Joel Jaeggli Warren Kumari Ted Lemon Alexey Melnikov Kathleen Moriarty Tom
Pusateri Eric Rescorla Adam Roach David Schinazi Markus Stenberg Dave Thaler
Yourtchenko

,
 for their comments.

,
, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Andrew

Author's Address

Stuart Cheshire
Apple Inc.
One Apple Park Way
Cupertino California 95014
,
United States of America
 +1 (408) 996-1010
Phone:
Email:
 cheshire@apple.com

Cheshire

Standards Track

Page 33

