Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8834
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
C. Perkins
University of Glasgow

M. Westerlund
Ericsson

J. Ott
Technical University Munich

RFC 8834
Media Transport and Use of RTP in WebRTC

Abstract

The framework for Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) provides support for direct
interactive rich communication using audio, video, text, collaboration, games, etc. between two
peers' web browsers. This memo describes the media transport aspects of the WebRTC
framework. It speciﬁes how the Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) is used in the WebRTC
context and gives requirements for which RTP features, proﬁles, and extensions need to be
supported.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8834

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Rationale

3.  Terminology

4.  WebRTC Use of RTP: Core Protocols

4.1.  RTP and RTCP

4.2.  Choice of the RTP Proﬁle

4.3.  Choice of RTP Payload Formats

4.4.  Use of RTP Sessions

4.5.  RTP and RTCP Multiplexing

4.6.  Reduced Size RTCP

4.7.  Symmetric RTP/RTCP

4.8.  Choice of RTP Synchronization Source (SSRC)

4.9.  Generation of the RTCP Canonical Name (CNAME)

4.10. Handling of Leap Seconds

5.  WebRTC Use of RTP: Extensions

5.1.  Conferencing Extensions and Topologies

5.1.1.  Full Intra Request (FIR)

5.1.2.  Picture Loss Indication (PLI)

5.1.3.  Slice Loss Indication (SLI)

5.1.4.  Reference Picture Selection Indication (RPSI)

5.1.5.  Temporal-Spatial Trade-Oﬀ Request (TSTR)

5.1.6.  Temporary Maximum Media Stream Bit Rate Request (TMMBR)

5.2.  Header Extensions

5.2.1.  Rapid Synchronization

5.2.2.  Client-to-Mixer Audio Level

5.2.3.  Mixer-to-Client Audio Level

5.2.4.  Media Stream Identiﬁcation

5.2.5.  Coordination of Video Orientation

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

6.  WebRTC Use of RTP: Improving Transport Robustness

6.1.  Negative Acknowledgements and RTP Retransmission

6.2.  Forward Error Correction (FEC)

7.  WebRTC Use of RTP: Rate Control and Media Adaptation

7.1.  Boundary Conditions and Circuit Breakers

7.2.  Congestion Control Interoperability and Legacy Systems

8.  WebRTC Use of RTP: Performance Monitoring

9.  WebRTC Use of RTP: Future Extensions

10. Signaling Considerations

11. WebRTC API Considerations

12. RTP Implementation Considerations

12.1.  Conﬁguration and Use of RTP Sessions

12.1.1.  Use of Multiple Media Sources within an RTP Session

12.1.2.  Use of Multiple RTP Sessions

12.1.3.  Diﬀerentiated Treatment of RTP Streams

12.2.  Media Source, RTP Streams, and Participant Identiﬁcation

12.2.1.  Media Source Identiﬁcation

12.2.2.  SSRC Collision Detection

12.2.3.  Media Synchronization Context

13. Security Considerations

14. IANA Considerations

15. References

15.1.  Normative References

15.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

1.  Introduction

Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) [RFC3550]

The
and video teleconferencing data and other real-time media applications. Previous work has
deﬁned the RTP protocol, along with numerous proﬁles, payload formats, and other extensions.
When combined with appropriate signaling, these form the basis for many teleconferencing
systems.

 provides a framework for delivery of audio

The Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) framework provides the protocol building blocks
to support direct, interactive, real-time communication using audio, video, collaboration, games,
etc. between two peers' web browsers. This memo describes how the RTP framework is to be
used in the WebRTC context. It proposes a baseline set of RTP features that are to be
implemented by all WebRTC endpoints, along with suggested extensions for enhanced
functionality.

This memo speciﬁes a protocol intended for use within the WebRTC framework but is not
restricted to that context. An overview of the WebRTC framework is given in

.
[RFC8825]

The structure of this memo is as follows. Section 2 outlines our rationale for preparing this memo
and choosing these RTP features. Section 3 deﬁnes terminology. Requirements for core RTP
protocols are described in Section 4, and suggested RTP extensions are described in Section 5.
Section 6 outlines mechanisms that can increase robustness to network problems, while Section
7 describes congestion control and rate adaptation mechanisms. The discussion of mandated RTP
mechanisms concludes in Section 8 with a review of performance monitoring and network
management tools. Section 9 gives some guidelines for future incorporation of other RTP and RTP
Control Protocol (RTCP) extensions into this framework. Section 10 describes requirements
placed on the signaling channel. Section 11 discusses the relationship between features of the
RTP framework and the WebRTC application programming interface (API), and Section 12
discusses RTP implementation considerations. The memo concludes with
(Section 13)

IANA considerations (Section 14)

security considerations

 and

.

2.  Rationale

The RTP framework comprises the RTP data transfer protocol, the RTP control protocol, and
numerous RTP payload formats, proﬁles, and extensions. This range of add-ons has allowed RTP
to meet various needs that were not envisaged by the original protocol designers and support
many new media encodings, but it raises the question of what extensions are to be supported by
new implementations. The development of the WebRTC framework provides an opportunity to
review the available RTP features and extensions and deﬁne a common baseline RTP feature set
for all WebRTC endpoints. This builds on the past 20 years of RTP development to mandate the
use of extensions that have shown widespread utility, while still remaining compatible with the
wide installed base of RTP implementations where possible.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

RTP and RTCP extensions that are not discussed in this document can be implemented by
WebRTC endpoints if they are beneﬁcial for new use cases. However, they are not necessary to
address the WebRTC use cases and requirements identiﬁed in

[RFC7478]
.

While the baseline set of RTP features and extensions deﬁned in this memo is targeted at the
requirements of the WebRTC framework, it is expected to be broadly useful for other
conferencing-related uses of RTP. In particular, it is likely that this set of RTP features and
extensions will be appropriate for other desktop or mobile video-conferencing systems, or for
room-based high-quality telepresence applications.

3.  Terminology

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here. Lower- or mixed-case uses of these key words are not to be
interpreted as carrying special signiﬁcance in this memo.

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "

", "

", "

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

We deﬁne the following additional terms:

WebRTC MediaStream:

[W3C.WD-mediacapture-streams]
MediaStreamTracks.

The MediaStream concept deﬁned by the W3C in the
. A MediaStream consists of zero or more

WebRTC API

MediaStreamTrack:

Part of the MediaStream concept deﬁned by the W3C in the

WebRTC API

[W3C.WD-mediacapture-streams]
any type of media source such as a microphone or a camera, but conceptual sources such as
an audio mix or a video composition are also possible.

. A MediaStreamTrack is an individual stream of media from

Transport-layer ﬂow:

A unidirectional ﬂow of transport packets that are identiﬁed by a

particular 5-tuple of source IP address, source port, destination IP address, destination port,
and transport protocol.

Bidirectional transport-layer ﬂow:

A bidirectional transport-layer ﬂow is a transport-layer ﬂow

that is symmetric. That is, the transport-layer ﬂow in the reverse direction has a 5-tuple
where the source and destination address and ports are swapped compared to the forward
path transport-layer ﬂow, and the transport protocol is the same.

This document uses the terminology from
according to their deﬁnitions from the
following frequently used terms: RTP stream, RTP session, and endpoint.

[RFC8825]
RTP speciﬁcation [RFC3550]

[RFC7656]

 and

. Other terms are used
. In particular, note the

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

4.  WebRTC Use of RTP: Core Protocols

The following sections describe the core features of RTP and RTCP that need to be implemented,
along with the mandated RTP proﬁles. Also described are the core extensions providing essential
features that all WebRTC endpoints need to implement to function eﬀectively on today's
networks.

4.1.  RTP and RTCP

Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) [RFC3550]

The
transport protocol for WebRTC. RTP itself comprises two parts: the RTP data transfer protocol
and the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP). RTCP is a fundamental and integral part of RTP and
be implemented and used in all WebRTC endpoints.

 to be implemented as the media

REQUIRED

MUST

 is

The following RTP and RTCP features are sometimes omitted in limited-functionality
implementations of RTP, but they are
REQUIRED

 in all WebRTC endpoints:

•

Support for use of multiple simultaneous synchronization source (SSRC) values in a single
RTP session, including support for RTP endpoints that send many SSRC values
simultaneously, following
 and
sessions deﬁned in

. The RTCP optimizations for multi-SSRC
 be signaled.

 be supported; if supported, the usage

[RFC8861] MAY

[RFC8108]

[RFC3550]

MUST

•

Random choice of SSRC on joining a session; collision detection and resolution for SSRC
values (see also Section 4.8).

•

Support for reception of RTP data packets containing contributing source (CSRC) lists, as
generated by RTP mixers, and RTCP packets relating to CSRCs.

•

Sending correct synchronization information in the RTCP Sender Reports, to allow receivers
to implement lip synchronization; see Section 5.2.1 regarding support for the rapid RTP
synchronization extensions.

•

SHOULD

Support for multiple synchronization contexts. Participants that send multiple simultaneous
RTP packet streams
 do so as part of a single synchronization context, using a single
RTCP CNAME for all streams and allowing receivers to play the streams out in a
synchronized manner. For compatibility with potential future versions of this speciﬁcation,
 support
or for interoperability with non-WebRTC devices through a gateway, receivers
multiple synchronization contexts, indicated by the use of multiple RTCP CNAMEs in an RTP
session. This speciﬁcation mandates the usage of a single CNAME when sending RTP streams
in some circumstances; see Section 4.9.

MUST

•

 unless mandated by other parts of this speciﬁcation. Note that additional RTCP

Support for sending and receiving RTCP Sender Report (SR), Receiver Report (RR), Source
Description (SDES), and BYE packet types. Note that support for other RTCP packet types is
OPTIONAL
packet types are used by the
(Section 5)
negotiation extension will use the SDP Grouping Framework "mid" attribute to identify
media streams. Such endpoints
item described in

. WebRTC endpoints that implement the Session Description Protocol (SDP) bundle

 implement the RTCP SDES media identiﬁcation (MID)

RTP/SAVPF proﬁle (Section 4.2)

RTCP extensions

 and the other

[RFC8843]

MUST

.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

•

Support for multiple endpoints in a single RTP session, and for scaling the RTCP transmission
interval according to the number of participants in the session; support for randomized
RTCP transmission intervals to avoid synchronization of RTCP reports; support for RTCP
timer reconsideration (
of [RFC3550]

) and reverse reconsideration (

Section 6.3.6 of [RFC3550]

Section 6.3.4

).

•

Support for conﬁguring the RTCP bandwidth as a fraction of the media bandwidth, and for
conﬁguring the fraction of the RTCP bandwidth allocated to senders -- e.g., using the SDP "b="
line

[RFC4566] [RFC3556]

.

•

. When using the reduced minimum RTCP reporting interval, the ﬁxed

Support for the reduced minimum RTCP reporting interval described in
[RFC3550]
(nonreduced) minimum interval
interval (see Sections 6.2 and 6.3.5 of
[RFC3550]
compound RTCP packet can be set to zero (see
[RFC8108]

). The delay before sending the initial
 as updated by
Section 6.2 of [RFC3550]

 be used when calculating the participant timeout

Section 6.2 of

MUST

).

•

Support for discontinuous transmission. RTP allows endpoints to pause and resume
transmission at any time. When resuming, the RTP sequence number will increase by one, as
usual, while the increase in the RTP timestamp value will depend on the duration of the
pause. Discontinuous transmission is most commonly used with some audio payload
formats, but it is not audio speciﬁc and can be used with any RTP payload format.

•

Ignore unknown RTCP packet types and RTP header extensions. This is to ensure robust
handling of future extensions, middlebox behaviors, etc., that can result in receiving RTP
header extensions or RTCP packet types that were not signaled. If a compound RTCP packet
that contains a mixture of known and unknown RTCP packet types is received, the known
packet types need to be processed as usual, with only the unknown packet types being
discarded.

It is known that a signiﬁcant number of legacy RTP implementations, especially those targeted at
systems with only Voice over IP (VoIP), do not support all of the above features and in some cases
do not support RTCP at all. Implementers are advised to consider the requirements for graceful
degradation when interoperating with legacy implementations.

Other implementation considerations are discussed in Section 12.

4.2.  Choice of the RTP Proﬁle

The complete speciﬁcation of RTP for a particular application domain requires the choice of an
RTP proﬁle. For WebRTC use, the
SAVPF) [RFC5124]
combination of the basic
(RTP/AVPF) [RFC4585]

 be implemented. The RTP/SAVPF proﬁle is the
, the
RTP proﬁle for RTCP-based feedback

[RFC7007] MUST
RTP/AVP proﬁle [RFC3551]

extended secure RTP proﬁle for RTCP-based feedback (RTP/

.
secure RTP proﬁle (RTP/SAVP) [RFC3711]

, as extended by

, and the

,

 are needed for the improved RTCP timer model.
The RTCP-based feedback extensions
This allows more ﬂexible transmission of RTCP packets in response to events, rather than strictly
according to bandwidth, and is vital for being able to report congestion signals as well as media
events. These extensions also allow saving RTCP bandwidth, and an endpoint will commonly

[RFC4585]

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

only use the full RTCP bandwidth allocation if there are many events that require feedback. The
timer rules are also needed to make use of the RTP conferencing extensions discussed in Section
5.1.

Note: The enhanced RTCP timer model deﬁned in the RTP/AVPF proﬁle is backwards
compatible with legacy systems that implement only the RTP/AVP or RTP/SAVP
proﬁle, given some constraints on parameter conﬁguration such as the RTCP
bandwidth value and "trr‑int". The most important factor for interworking with
RTP/(S)AVP endpoints via a gateway is to set the "trr-int" parameter to a value
representing 4 seconds; see

Section 7.1.3 of [RFC8108]

.

MUST NOT

 send packets using the basic RTP/AVP proﬁle or the RTP/AVPF proﬁle; they
 employ the full RTP/SAVPF proﬁle to protect all RTP and RTCP packets that are generated.

 are needed to provide media encryption,
The secure RTP (SRTP) proﬁle extensions
[RFC3711]
integrity protection, replay protection, and a limited form of source authentication. WebRTC
endpoints
MUST
In other words, implementations
proﬁle
mechanisms, and other parameters described in

 be conﬁgured using the cipher suites, DTLS-SRTP protection proﬁles, keying

 use SRTP and Secure RTCP (SRTCP). The RTP/SAVPF

.
[RFC8827]

MUST

MUST

4.3.  Choice of RTP Payload Formats

Mandatory-to-implement audio codecs and RTP payload formats for WebRTC endpoints are
deﬁned in
WebRTC endpoints are deﬁned in
other codec for which an RTP payload format and associated signaling has been deﬁned.

. Mandatory-to-implement video codecs and RTP payload formats for
. WebRTC endpoints

[RFC7742]

[RFC7874]

MAY

 additionally implement any

WebRTC endpoints cannot assume that the other participants in an RTP session understand any
RTP payload format, no matter how common. The mapping between RTP payload type numbers
and speciﬁc conﬁgurations of particular RTP payload formats
payload types/formats can be used. In an SDP context, this can be done using the "a=rtpmap:"
and "a=fmtp:" attributes associated with an "m=" line, along with any other SDP attributes
needed to conﬁgure the RTP payload format.

 be agreed before those

MUST

Endpoints can signal support for multiple RTP payload formats or multiple conﬁgurations of a
single RTP payload format, as long as each unique RTP payload format conﬁguration uses a
diﬀerent RTP payload type number. As outlined in Section 4.8, the RTP payload type number is
sometimes used to associate an RTP packet stream with a signaling context. This association is
possible provided unique RTP payload type numbers are used in each context. For example, an
RTP packet stream can be associated with an SDP "m=" line by comparing the RTP payload type
numbers used by the RTP packet stream with payload types signaled in the "a=rtpmap:" lines in
the media sections of the SDP. This leads to the following considerations:

If RTP packet streams are being associated with signaling contexts based on the RTP payload
type, then the assignment of RTP payload type numbers
contexts.

 be unique across signaling

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

If the same RTP payload format conﬁguration is used in multiple contexts, then a diﬀerent
RTP payload type number has to be assigned in each context to ensure uniqueness.

If the RTP payload type number is not being used to associate RTP packet streams with a
signaling context, then the same RTP payload type number can be used to indicate the exact
same RTP payload format conﬁguration in multiple contexts.

A single RTP payload type number
 be assigned to diﬀerent RTP payload formats, or
diﬀerent conﬁgurations of the same RTP payload format, within a single RTP session (note that
the "m=" lines in an

SDP BUNDLE group [RFC8843]

 form a single RTP session).

MUST NOT

An endpoint that has signaled support for multiple RTP payload formats
 be able to accept
data in any of those payload formats at any time, unless it has previously signaled limitations on
its decoding capability. This requirement is constrained if several types of media (e.g., audio and
video) are sent in the same RTP session. In such a case, a source (SSRC) is restricted to switching
only between the RTP payload formats signaled for the type of media that is being sent by that
source; see Section 4.4. To support rapid rate adaptation by changing codecs, RTP does not
require advance signaling for changes between RTP payload formats used by a single SSRC that
were signaled during session setup.

MUST

MUST

 follow the recommendations in

If performing changes between two RTP payload types that use diﬀerent RTP clock rates, an RTP
sender
 follow
the recommendations in
between clock rates in an RTP session. These recommendations for receivers are backwards
compatible with the case where senders use only a single clock rate.

 in order to support sources that switch

Section 4.1 of [RFC7160]

Section 4.3 of [RFC7160]

. RTP receivers

MUST

4.4.  Use of RTP Sessions

An association amongst a set of endpoints communicating using RTP is known as an RTP session
[RFC3550]
. An endpoint can be involved in several RTP sessions at the same time. In a
multimedia session, each type of media has typically been carried in a separate RTP session (e.g.,
using one RTP session for the audio and a separate RTP session using a diﬀerent transport-layer
ﬂow for the video). WebRTC endpoints are
REQUIRED
sessions in this way, separating each RTP session using diﬀerent transport-layer ﬂows for
compatibility with legacy systems (this is sometimes called session multiplexing).

 to implement support for multimedia

In modern-day networks, however, with the widespread use of network address/port translators
(NAT/NAPT) and ﬁrewalls, it is desirable to reduce the number of transport-layer ﬂows used by
RTP applications. This can be done by sending all the RTP packet streams in a single RTP session,
which will comprise a single transport-layer ﬂow. This will prevent the use of some quality-of-
service mechanisms, as discussed in Section 12.1.3. Implementations are therefore also
REQUIRED
RTP session using a single transport-layer ﬂow, according to
SSRC multiplexing). If multiple types of media are to be used in a single RTP session, all
participants in that RTP session
described in
single RTP session.

 to support transport of all RTP packet streams, independent of media type, in a single
 (this is sometimes called

 agree to this usage. In an SDP context, the mechanisms
 can be used to signal such a bundle of RTP packet streams forming a

[RFC8843]

[RFC8860]

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

Further discussion about the suitability of diﬀerent RTP session structures and multiplexing
methods to diﬀerent scenarios can be found in

[RFC8872]
.

4.5.  RTP and RTCP Multiplexing

Historically, RTP and RTCP have been run on separate transport-layer ﬂows (e.g., two UDP ports
for each RTP session, one for RTP and one for RTCP). With the increased use of Network Address/
Port Translation (NAT/NAPT), this has become problematic, since maintaining multiple NAT
bindings can be costly. It also complicates ﬁrewall administration, since multiple ports need to be
opened to allow RTP traﬃc. To reduce these costs and session setup times, implementations are
REQUIRED
transport-layer ﬂow
signaling channel before it is used. If SDP is used for signaling, this negotiation
mechanism deﬁned in
separate transport-layer ﬂows, but this is
support RTP and RTCP sent on separate transport-layer ﬂows, it
mechanism deﬁned in

 to support multiplexing RTP data packets and RTCP control packets on a single

. Implementations can also support sending RTP and RTCP on

 be negotiated in the
MUST

 to implement. If an implementation does not

. Such RTP and RTCP multiplexing

 indicate that using the

[RFC5761]

[RFC5761]

[RFC8858]

OPTIONAL

 use the

MUST

MUST

.

Note that the use of RTP and RTCP multiplexed onto a single transport-layer ﬂow ensures that
there is occasional traﬃc sent on that port, even if there is no active media traﬃc. This can be
useful to keep NAT bindings alive

.
[RFC6263]

4.6.  Reduced Size RTCP

RTCP packets are usually sent as compound RTCP packets, and
compound packets start with an SR or RR packet. When using frequent RTCP feedback messages
under the RTP/AVPF proﬁle
, these statistics are not needed in every packet, and they
unnecessarily increase the mean RTCP packet size. This can limit the frequency at which RTCP
packets can be sent within the RTCP bandwidth share.

 requires that those

[RFC4585]

[RFC3550]

[RFC5506]

 speciﬁes how to reduce the mean RTCP message size and allow

To avoid this problem,
for more frequent feedback. Frequent feedback, in turn, is essential to make real-time
applications quickly aware of changing network conditions and to allow them to adapt their
transmission and encoding behavior. Implementations
 support sending and receiving
noncompound RTCP feedback packets
negotiated using the signaling channel. If SDP is used for signaling, this negotiation
attributes deﬁned in
REQUIRED
not agree to the use of noncompound RTCP in the signaling exchange.

 to support the use of compound RTCP feedback packets if the remote endpoint does

. For backwards compatibility, implementations are also

. Use of noncompound RTCP packets

 be
 use the

[RFC5506]

[RFC5506]

MUST

MUST

MUST

4.7.  Symmetric RTP/RTCP

symmetric RTP [RFC4961]

To ease traversal of NAT and ﬁrewall devices, implementations are
use
with NATs and ﬁrewalls by ensuring that the send and receive RTP packet streams, as well as
RTCP, are actually bidirectional transport-layer ﬂows. This will keep alive the NAT and ﬁrewall
pinholes and help indicate consent that the receive direction is a transport-layer ﬂow the

. The reason for using symmetric RTP is primarily to avoid issues

REQUIRED

 to implement and

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

intended recipient actually wants. In addition, it saves resources, speciﬁcally ports at the
endpoints, but also in the network, because the NAT mappings or ﬁrewall state is not
unnecessarily bloated. The amount of per-ﬂow QoS state kept in the network is also reduced.

4.8.  Choice of RTP Synchronization Source (SSRC)

REQUIRED

Implementations are
identiﬁers. If SDP is used, this
4.1 and 5 of
[RFC5576]

[RFC5576]

 and the "previous-ssrc" source attribute deﬁned in

Section 6.2 of

; other per-SSRC attributes deﬁned in

[RFC5576] MAY

 be supported.

 to support signaled RTP synchronization source (SSRC)

MUST

 be done using the "a=ssrc:" SDP attribute deﬁned in Sections

MUST

While support for signaled SSRC identiﬁers is mandated, their use in an RTP session is
Implementations
been explicitly signaled ahead of time. Implementations
and
signaled SSRC values, collision detection
.
[RFC5576]

 be prepared to accept RTP and RTCP packets using SSRCs that have not
MUST

 support SSRC collision detection and resolution, according to

 be performed as described in

 support random SSRC assignment

. When using

Section 5 of

[RFC3550]

MUST

MUST

OPTIONAL

.

It is often desirable to associate an RTP packet stream with a non-RTP context. For users of the
WebRTC API, a mapping between SSRCs and MediaStreamTracks is provided per Section 11. For
gateways or other usages, it is possible to associate an RTP packet stream with an "m=" line in a
session description formatted using SDP. If SSRCs are signaled, this is straightforward (in SDP, the
"a=ssrc:" line will be at the media level, allowing a direct association with an "m=" line). If SSRCs
are not signaled, the RTP payload type numbers used in an RTP packet stream are often suﬃcient
to associate that packet stream with a signaling context. For example, if RTP payload type
numbers are assigned as described in Section 4.3 of this memo, the RTP payload types used by an
RTP packet stream can be compared with values in SDP "a=rtpmap:" lines, which are at the
media level in SDP and so map to an "m=" line.

4.9.  Generation of the RTCP Canonical Name (CNAME)

The RTCP Canonical Name (CNAME) provides a persistent transport-level identiﬁer for an RTP
endpoint. While the SSRC identiﬁer for an RTP endpoint can change if a collision is detected or
when the RTP application is restarted, its RTCP CNAME is meant to stay unchanged for the
, so that RTP endpoints can be uniquely
duration of an
identiﬁed and associated with their RTP packet streams within a set of related RTP sessions.

RTCPeerConnection [W3C.WebRTC]

MUST

 have at least one RTCP CNAME, and that RTCP CNAME

Each RTP endpoint
within the RTCPeerConnection. RTCP CNAMEs identify a particular synchronization context -- i.e.,
all SSRCs associated with a single RTCP CNAME share a common reference clock. If an endpoint
has SSRCs that are associated with several unsynchronized reference clocks, and hence diﬀerent
synchronization contexts, it will need to use multiple RTCP CNAMEs, one for each
synchronization context.

 be unique

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

Taking the discussion in Section 11 into account, a WebRTC endpoint
one RTCP CNAME in the RTP sessions belonging to a single RTCPeerConnection (that is, an
RTCPeerConnection forms a synchronization context). RTP middleboxes
 generate RTP
packet streams associated with more than one RTCP CNAME, to allow them to avoid having to
resynchronize media from multiple diﬀerent endpoints that are part of a multiparty RTP session.

 use more than

MUST NOT

MAY

RTP speciﬁcation [RFC3550]

The
 includes guidelines for choosing a unique RTP CNAME, but these
are not suﬃcient in the presence of NAT devices. In addition, long-term persistent identiﬁers can
be problematic from a
generate a new, unique, short-term persistent RTCP CNAME for each RTCPeerConnection,
following
[RFC7022]
RTCPeerConnection
common same-origin context.

, with a single exception; if explicitly requested at creation, an
MAY

 use the same CNAME as an existing RTCPeerConnection within their

. Accordingly, a WebRTC endpoint

privacy viewpoint (Section 13)

MUST

A WebRTC endpoint
speciﬁed by the
according to the form suggested above.

RTP speciﬁcation [RFC3550]

MUST

 support reception of any CNAME that matches the syntax limitations
 and cannot assume that any CNAME will be chosen

4.10.  Handling of Leap Seconds

The guidelines given in
RTP media play-out and synchronization

[RFC7164]

SHOULD

 be followed.

 regarding handling of leap seconds to limit their impact on

5.  WebRTC Use of RTP: Extensions

There are a number of RTP extensions that are either needed to obtain full functionality, or
extremely useful to improve on the baseline performance, in the WebRTC context. One set of
these extensions is related to conferencing, while others are more generic in nature. The
following subsections describe the various RTP extensions mandated or suggested for use within
WebRTC.

5.1.  Conferencing Extensions and Topologies

RTP is a protocol that inherently supports group communication. Groups can be implemented by
having each endpoint send its RTP packet streams to an RTP middlebox that redistributes the
traﬃc, by using a mesh of unicast RTP packet streams between endpoints, or by using an IP
multicast group to distribute the RTP packet streams. These topologies can be implemented in a
number of ways as discussed in

[RFC7667]
.

While the use of IP multicast groups is popular in IPTV systems, the topologies based on RTP
middleboxes are dominant in interactive video-conferencing environments. Topologies based on
a mesh of unicast transport-layer ﬂows to create a common RTP session have not seen
widespread deployment to date. Accordingly, WebRTC endpoints are not expected to support
topologies based on IP multicast groups or mesh-based topologies, such as a point-to-multipoint
mesh conﬁgured as a single RTP session ("Topo-Mesh" in the terminology of

[RFC7667]

).

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

However, a point-to-multipoint mesh constructed using several RTP sessions, implemented in
RTCPeerConnections [W3C.WebRTC]
WebRTC using independent
WebRTC and needs to be supported.

, can be expected to be used in

[RFC7667]

 where the RTP endpoints send and receive unicast RTP packet

WebRTC endpoints implemented according to this memo are expected to support all the
topologies described in
streams to and from some peer device, provided that peer can participate in performing
congestion control on the RTP packet streams. The peer device could be another RTP endpoint, or
it could be an RTP middlebox that redistributes the RTP packet streams to other RTP endpoints.
This limitation means that some of the RTP middlebox-based topologies are not suitable for use
in WebRTC. Speciﬁcally:

•

 be
Video-switching Multipoint Control Units (MCUs) (Topo-Video-switch-MCU)
used, since they make the use of RTCP for congestion control and quality-of-service reports
problematic (see

Section 3.8 of [RFC7667]

SHOULD NOT

).

•

The Relay-Transport Translator (Topo-PtM-Trn-Translator) topology
because its safe use requires a congestion control algorithm or RTP circuit breaker that
handles point to multipoint, which has not yet been standardized.

SHOULD NOT

 be used,

The following topology can be used, however it has some issues worth noting:

•

Content-modifying MCUs with RTCP termination (Topo-RTCP-terminating-MCU)
Note that in this RTP topology, RTP loop detection and identiﬁcation of active senders is the
responsibility of the WebRTC application; since the clients are isolated from each other at the
RTP layer, RTP cannot assist with these functions (see

Section 3.9 of [RFC7667]

 be used.

MAY

).

The RTP extensions described in Sections 5.1.1 to 5.1.6 are designed to be used with centralized
conferencing, where an RTP middlebox (e.g., a conference bridge) receives a participant's RTP
packet streams and distributes them to the other participants. These extensions are not
necessary for interoperability; an RTP endpoint that does not implement these extensions will
work correctly but might oﬀer poor performance. Support for the listed extensions will greatly
improve the quality of experience; to provide a reasonable baseline quality, some of these
extensions are mandatory to be supported by WebRTC endpoints.

The RTCP conferencing extensions are deﬁned in
Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" [RFC4585]
the RTP Audio-Visual Proﬁle with Feedback (AVPF)" [RFC5104]
secure variant of this proﬁle (RTP/SAVPF) [RFC5124]

.

"Extended RTP Proﬁle for Real-time Transport
"Codec Control Messages in

 and

; they are fully usable by the

5.1.1.  Full Intra Request (FIR)

. It is used to make the mixer request a new Intra picture from a participant in the

The Full Intra Request message is deﬁned in Sections 3.5.1 and 4.3.1 of
[RFC5104]
session. This is used when switching between sources to ensure that the receivers can decode the
video or other predictive media encoding with long prediction chains. WebRTC endpoints that
are sending media
greatly improves the user experience when using centralized mixer-based conferencing. Support
for sending FIR messages is

 understand and react to FIR feedback messages they receive, since this

Codec Control Messages

OPTIONAL

MUST

.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

5.1.2.  Picture Loss Indication (PLI)

Section 6.3.1 of the RTP/AVPF proﬁle [RFC4585]
The Picture Loss Indication message is deﬁned in
.
It is used by a receiver to tell the sending encoder that it lost the decoder context and would like
to have it repaired somehow. This is semantically diﬀerent from the Full Intra Request above, as
there could be multiple ways to fulﬁll the request. WebRTC endpoints that are sending media
MUST

 understand and react to PLI feedback messages as a loss-tolerance mechanism. Receivers

MAY

 send PLI messages.

5.1.3.  Slice Loss Indication (SLI)

. It
The Slice Loss Indication message is deﬁned in
is used by a receiver to tell the encoder that it has detected the loss or corruption of one or more
consecutive macro blocks and would like to have these repaired somehow. It is
RECOMMENDED
that receivers generate SLI feedback messages if slices are lost when using a codec that supports
 attempt to
the concept of macro blocks. A sender that receives an SLI feedback message
repair the lost slice(s).

Section 6.3.2 of the RTP/AVPF proﬁle [RFC4585]

SHOULD

5.1.4.  Reference Picture Selection Indication (RPSI)

Section 6.3.3 of the RTP/

. Some video-encoding standards allow the use of older reference pictures

Reference Picture Selection Indication (RPSI) messages are deﬁned in
AVPF proﬁle [RFC4585]
than the most recent one for predictive coding. If such a codec is in use, and if the encoder has
learned that encoder-decoder synchronization has been lost, then a known-as-correct reference
picture can be used as a base for future coding. The RPSI message allows this to be signaled.
Receivers that detect that encoder-decoder synchronization has been lost
RPSI feedback message if the codec being used supports reference-picture selection. An RTP
packet-stream sender that receives such an RPSI message
the reference picture, if it is possible to do so within the available bandwidth constraints and
with the codec being used.

 act on that messages to change

 generate an

SHOULD

SHOULD

5.1.5.  Temporal-Spatial Trade-Oﬀ Request (TSTR)

The temporal-spatial trade-oﬀ request and notiﬁcation are deﬁned in Sections 3.5.2 and 4.3.2 of
[RFC5104]
between temporal and spatial resolution -- for example, to prefer high spatial image quality but
low frame rate. Support for TSTR requests and notiﬁcations is

. This request can be used to ask the video encoder to change the trade-oﬀ it makes

.
OPTIONAL

5.1.6.  Temporary Maximum Media Stream Bit Rate Request (TMMBR)

The Temporary Maximum Media Stream Bit Rate Request (TMMBR) feedback message is deﬁned
Codec Control Messages [RFC5104]
in Sections 3.5.4 and 4.2.1 of
corresponding Temporary Maximum Media Stream Bit Rate Notiﬁcation (TMMBN) message
[RFC5104]
limitation on the amount of bandwidth available to this receiver. There can be various reasons
for this: for example, an RTP mixer can use this message to limit the media rate of the sender
being forwarded by the mixer (without doing media transcoding) to ﬁt the bottlenecks existing

 are used by a media receiver to inform the sending party that there is a current

. This request and its

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

towards the other session participants. WebRTC endpoints that are sending media are
to implement support for TMMBR messages and
TMMBR message received for their SSRC. The sending of TMMBR messages is

 follow bandwidth limitations set by a

.
OPTIONAL

MUST

REQUIRED

5.2.  Header Extensions

RTP speciﬁcation [RFC3550]

 provides the capability to include RTP header extensions

The
containing in-band data, but the format and semantics of the extensions are poorly speciﬁed. The
use of header extensions is
and signaled following the general mechanism for RTP header extensions deﬁned in
since this gives well-deﬁned semantics to RTP header extensions.

 in WebRTC, but if they are used, they

 be formatted
[RFC8285]

OPTIONAL

MUST

,

[RFC8285]

, the requirement from the RTP speciﬁcation that header extensions are

 only be used for data that can safely be ignored by the recipient without
 be used when the presence of the extension has

As noted in
"designed so that the header extension may be ignored"
extensions
MUST
aﬀecting interoperability and
changed the form or nature of the rest of the packet in a way that is not compatible with the way
the stream is signaled (e.g., as deﬁned by the payload type). Valid examples of RTP header
extensions might include metadata that is additional to the usual RTP information but that can
safely be ignored without compromising interoperability.

 stands. To be speciﬁc, header

[RFC3550]

MUST NOT

5.2.1.  Rapid Synchronization

Many RTP sessions require synchronization between audio, video, and other content. This
synchronization is performed by receivers, using information contained in RTCP SR packets, as
described in the
RECOMMENDED
implemented in addition to RTCP SR-based synchronization.

RTP speciﬁcation [RFC3550]
 that the rapid RTP synchronization extensions described in

. This basic mechanism can be slow, however, so it is

[RFC6051]

 be

This header extension uses the generic header extension framework described in
so needs to be negotiated before it can be used.

[RFC8285]

 and

5.2.2.  Client-to-Mixer Audio Level

client-to-mixer audio level extension [RFC6464]

The
endpoint to inform a mixer about the level of audio activity in the packet to which the header is
attached. This enables an RTP middlebox to make mixing or selection decisions without decoding
or detailed inspection of the payload, reducing the complexity in some types of mixers. It can
also save decoding resources in receivers, which can choose to decode only the most relevant
RTP packet streams based on audio activity levels.

 is an RTP header extension used by an

client-to-mixer audio level header extension [RFC6464] MUST

 be implemented. It is

 that implementations be capable of encrypting the header extension according to
, since the information contained in these header extensions can be considered

The
REQUIRED
[RFC6904]
sensitive. The use of this encryption is
explicitly disabled through API or signaling.

RECOMMENDED

; however, usage of the encryption can be

This header extension uses the generic header extension framework described in
so needs to be negotiated before it can be used.

[RFC8285]

 and

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

5.2.3.  Mixer-to-Client Audio Level

mixer-to-client audio level header extension [RFC6465]

The
 provides an endpoint with the audio
level of the diﬀerent sources mixed into a common source stream by an RTP mixer. This enables
a user interface to indicate the relative activity level of each session participant, rather than just
being included or not based on the CSRC ﬁeld. This is a pure optimization of non-critical
functions and is hence
REQUIRED
[RFC6904]
sensitive. It is further
been explicitly disabled through API or signaling.

 to implement. If this header extension is implemented, it is
 that implementations be capable of encrypting the header extension according to
, since the information contained in these header extensions can be considered

 that this encryption be used, unless the encryption has

RECOMMENDED

OPTIONAL

This header extension uses the generic header extension framework described in
so needs to be negotiated before it can be used.

[RFC8285]

 and

5.2.4.  Media Stream Identiﬁcation

WebRTC endpoints that implement the SDP bundle negotiation extension will use the SDP
Grouping Framework "mid" attribute to identify media streams. Such endpoints
implement the RTP MID header extension described in

.
[RFC8843]

MUST

This header extension uses the generic header extension framework described in
so needs to be negotiated before it can be used.

[RFC8285]

 and

5.2.5.  Coordination of Video Orientation

WebRTC endpoints that send or receive video
orientation (CVO) RTP header extension as described in

MUST

 implement the coordination of video

Section 4 of [RFC7742]

.

This header extension uses the generic header extension framework described in
so needs to be negotiated before it can be used.

[RFC8285]

 and

6.  WebRTC Use of RTP: Improving Transport Robustness

There are tools that can make RTP packet streams robust against packet loss and reduce the
impact of loss on media quality. However, they generally add some overhead compared to a non-
robust stream. The overhead needs to be considered, and the aggregate bitrate
controlled to avoid causing network congestion (see Section 7). As a result, improving robustness
might require a lower base encoding quality but has the potential to deliver that quality with
fewer errors. The mechanisms described in the following subsections can be used to improve
tolerance to packet loss.

 be rate

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

6.1.  Negative Acknowledgements and RTP Retransmission

As a consequence of supporting the RTP/SAVPF proﬁle, implementations can send negative
acknowledgements (NACKs) for RTP data packets
a sender of the loss of particular RTP packets, subject to the capacity limitations of the RTCP
feedback channel. A sender can use this information to optimize the user experience by adapting
the media encoding to compensate for known lost packets.

. This feedback can be used to inform

[RFC4585]

REQUIRED

, but they
). Receivers

RTP packet stream senders are
Section 6.2.1 of [RFC4585]
Section 4.2 of [RFC4585]
when to send NACKs are provided in
NACK for every lost RTP packet; rather, it needs to consider the cost of sending NACK feedback
and the importance of the lost packet to make an informed decision on whether it is worth telling
the sender about a packet-loss event.

 to understand the generic NACK message deﬁned in
 choose to ignore some or all of this feedback (following
 send NACKs for missing RTP packets. Guidelines on
. It is not expected that a receiver will send a

[RFC4585]

MAY

MAY

 oﬀers the ability to retransmit lost packets

RTP retransmission payload format [RFC4588]

The
based on NACK feedback. Retransmission needs to be used with care in interactive real-time
applications to ensure that the retransmitted packet arrives in time to be useful, but it can be
eﬀective in environments with relatively low network RTT. (An RTP sender can estimate the RTT
to the receivers using the information in RTCP SR and RR packets, as described at the end of
Section 6.4.1 of [RFC3550]
bandwidth and can potentially cause increased packet loss if the original packet loss was caused
by network congestion. Note, however, that retransmission of an important lost packet to repair
decoder state can have lower cost than sending a full intra frame. It is not appropriate to blindly
retransmit RTP packets in response to a NACK. The importance of lost packets and the likelihood
of them arriving in time to be useful need to be considered before RTP retransmission is used.

). The use of retransmissions can also increase the forward RTP

REQUIRED

 to implement support for RTP retransmission packets

 sent
 also support RTP retransmission packets sent using session

Receivers are
using SSRC multiplexing and
multiplexing. Senders
the RTP retransmission payload format has been negotiated and the sender believes it is useful to
send a retransmission of the packet(s) referenced in the NACK. Senders do not need to retransmit
every NACKed packet.

 send RTP retransmission packets in response to NACKs if support for

[RFC4588]

MAY

MAY

6.2.  Forward Error Correction (FEC)

The use of Forward Error Correction (FEC) can provide an eﬀective protection against some
degree of packet loss, at the cost of steady bandwidth overhead. There are several FEC schemes
that are deﬁned for use with RTP. Some of these schemes are speciﬁc to a particular RTP payload
format, and others operate across RTP packets and can be used with any payload format. Note
that using redundant encoding or FEC will lead to increased play-out delay, which needs to be
considered when choosing FEC schemes and their parameters.

WebRTC endpoints
endpoints

MAY

MUST

 follow the recommendations for FEC use given in

. WebRTC
 be negotiated before they are used.

[RFC8854]

 support other types of FEC, but these

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

7.  WebRTC Use of RTP: Rate Control and Media Adaptation

WebRTC will be used in heterogeneous network environments using a variety of link
technologies, including both wired and wireless links, to interconnect potentially large groups of
users around the world. As a result, the network paths between users can have widely varying
one-way delays, available bitrates, load levels, and traﬃc mixtures. Individual endpoints can
send one or more RTP packet streams to each participant, and there can be several participants.
Each of these RTP packet streams can contain diﬀerent types of media, and the type of media,
bitrate, and number of RTP packet streams as well as transport-layer ﬂows can be highly
asymmetric. Non-RTP traﬃc can share the network paths with RTP transport-layer ﬂows. Since
 ensure that the
the network environment is not predictable or stable, WebRTC endpoints
RTP traﬃc they generate can adapt to match changes in the available network capacity.

MUST

The quality of experience for users of WebRTC is very dependent on eﬀective adaptation of the
media to the limitations of the network. Endpoints have to be designed so they do not transmit
signiﬁcantly more data than the network path can support, except for very short time periods;
otherwise, high levels of network packet loss or delay spikes will occur, causing media quality
degradation. The limiting factor on the capacity of the network path might be the link
bandwidth, or it might be competition with other traﬃc on the link (this can be non-WebRTC
traﬃc, traﬃc due to other WebRTC ﬂows, or even competition with other WebRTC ﬂows in the
same session).

An eﬀective media congestion control algorithm is therefore an essential part of the WebRTC
framework. However, at the time of this writing, there is no standard congestion control
algorithm that can be used for interactive media applications such as WebRTC's ﬂows. Some
requirements for congestion control algorithms for RTCPeerConnections are discussed in
[RFC8836]
developed in the future, this memo will need to be updated to mandate its use.

. If a standardized congestion control algorithm that satisﬁes these requirements is

7.1.  Boundary Conditions and Circuit Breakers

MUST

 implement the RTP circuit breaker algorithm that is described in

WebRTC endpoints
[RFC8083]
. The RTP circuit breaker is designed to enable applications to recognize and react to
situations of extreme network congestion. However, since the RTP circuit breaker might not be
triggered until congestion becomes extreme, it cannot be considered a substitute for congestion
control, and applications
changes in network capacity. The congestion control algorithm will have to be proprietary until a
standardized congestion control algorithm is available. Any future RTP congestion control
algorithms are expected to operate within the envelope allowed by the circuit breaker.

 also implement congestion control to allow them to adapt to

MUST

The session-establishment signaling will also necessarily establish boundaries to which the
media bitrate will conform. The choice of media codecs provides upper and lower bounds on the
supported bitrates that the application can utilize to provide useful quality, and the packetization
choices that exist. In addition, the signaling channel can establish maximum media bitrate
boundaries using, for example, the SDP "b=AS:" or "b=CT:" lines and the RTP/AVPF TMMBR

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

messages (see Section 5.1.6 of this memo). Signaled bandwidth limitations, such as SDP "b=AS:" or
 be followed when sending RTP packet streams. A
"b=CT:" lines received from the peer,
WebRTC endpoint receiving media
 signal its bandwidth limitations. These limitations
have to be based on known bandwidth limitations, for example the capacity of the edge links.

SHOULD

MUST

7.2.  Congestion Control Interoperability and Legacy Systems

All endpoints that wish to interwork with WebRTC
congestion feedback via the deﬁned RTCP reporting mechanisms.

MUST

 implement RTCP and provide

When interworking with legacy implementations that support RTCP using the
[RFC3551]
Implementations that have to interwork with such endpoints
the

, congestion feedback is provided in RTCP RR packets every few seconds.

 constraints to limit the congestion they can cause.

RTP circuit breaker [RFC8083]

MUST

 ensure that they keep within

RTP/AVP proﬁle

If a legacy endpoint supports RTP/AVPF, this enables negotiation of important parameters for
frequent reporting, such as the "trr-int" parameter, and the possibility that the endpoint supports
some useful feedback format for congestion control purposes such as
Implementations that have to interwork with such endpoints
the
might ﬁnd that they can achieve better congestion response depending on the amount of
feedback that is available.

 constraints to limit the congestion they can cause, but they

RTP circuit breaker [RFC8083]

 ensure that they stay within

TMMBR [RFC5104]

MUST

.

With proprietary congestion control algorithms, issues can arise when diﬀerent algorithms and
implementations interact in a communication session. If the diﬀerent implementations have
made diﬀerent choices in regards to the type of adaptation, for example one sender based, and
one receiver based, then one could end up in a situation where one direction is dual controlled
when the other direction is not controlled. This memo cannot mandate behavior for proprietary
congestion control algorithms, but implementations that use such algorithms ought to be aware
of this issue and try to ensure that eﬀective congestion control is negotiated for media ﬂowing in
both directions. If the IETF were to standardize both sender- and receiver-based congestion
control algorithms for WebRTC traﬃc in the future, the issues of interoperability, control, and
ensuring that both directions of media ﬂow are congestion controlled would also need to be
considered.

8.  WebRTC Use of RTP: Performance Monitoring

As described in Section 4.1, implementations are
 to generate RTCP Sender Report (SR)
and Receiver Report (RR) packets relating to the RTP packet streams they send and receive. These
RTCP reports can be used for performance monitoring purposes, since they include basic packet-
loss and jitter statistics.

REQUIRED

A large number of additional performance metrics are supported by the RTCP Extended Reports
[RFC6792]
(XR) framework; see
extended metrics are suitable for use in WebRTC, so there is no requirement that
implementations generate RTCP XR packets. However, implementations that can use detailed

. At the time of this writing, it is not clear what

[RFC3611]

 and

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

performance monitoring data
packets
or not understood.

SHOULD

MAY
 be signaled; implementations

 generate RTCP XR packets as appropriate. The use of RTCP XR
 ignore RTCP XR packets that are unexpected

MUST

9.  WebRTC Use of RTP: Future Extensions

It is possible that the core set of RTP protocols and RTP extensions speciﬁed in this memo will
prove insuﬃcient for the future needs of WebRTC. In this case, future updates to this memo have
to be made following
"How to Write an RTP Payload Format" [RFC8088]
. They also
Protocol (RTCP)" [RFC5968]
extending RTP and related protocols that have been developed.

"Guidelines for Writers of RTP Payload Format Speciﬁcations" [RFC2736]

 take into account any future guidelines for

"Guidelines for Extending the RTP Control

SHOULD

, and

,

Authors of future extensions are urged to consider the wide range of environments in which RTP
is used when recommending extensions, since extensions that are applicable in some scenarios
can be problematic in others. Where possible, the WebRTC framework will adopt RTP extensions
that are of general utility, to enable easy implementation of a gateway to other applications using
RTP, rather than adopt mechanisms that are narrowly targeted at speciﬁc WebRTC use cases.

10.  Signaling Considerations

RTP is built with the assumption that an external signaling channel exists and can be used to
conﬁgure RTP sessions and their features. The basic conﬁguration of an RTP session consists of
the following parameters:

RTP proﬁle:

The name of the RTP proﬁle to be used in the session. The

RTP/AVP [RFC3551]

 and

RTP/SAVPF [RFC5124]

 proﬁles can interoperate on a basic level, as can their secure variants,
 and

RTP/AVPF [RFC4585]
RTP/SAVP [RFC3711]
directly interoperate with the nonsecure variants, due to the presence of additional header
ﬁelds for authentication in SRTP packets and cryptographic transformation of the payload.
WebRTC requires the use of the RTP/SAVPF proﬁle, and this
 be signaled. Interworking
functions might transform this into the RTP/SAVP proﬁle for a legacy use case by indicating to
the WebRTC endpoint that the RTP/SAVPF is used and conﬁguring a "trr-int" value of 4
seconds.

. The secure variants of the proﬁles do not

MUST

Transport information:

Source and destination IP address(es) and ports for RTP and RTCP

MUST

be signaled for each RTP session. In WebRTC, these transport addresses will be provided by
Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) [RFC8445]
nominated candidate address pairs. If
such that a single port -- i.e., transport-layer ﬂow -- is used for RTP and RTCP ﬂows, this
be signaled (see Section 4.5).

RTP and RTCP multiplexing [RFC5761]

 that signals candidates and arrives at

 is to be used

MUST

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

RTP payload types, media formats, and format parameters:

The mapping between media type

names (and hence the RTP payload formats to be used) and the RTP payload type numbers
 also have a number of media type parameters that
MUST

 be signaled. Each media type
 also be signaled to conﬁgure the codec and RTP payload format (the "a=fmtp:" line from

MUST
SDP). Section 4.3 of this memo discusses requirements for uniqueness of payload types.

MAY

RTP extensions:

The use of any additional RTP header extensions and RTCP packet types,

including any necessary parameters,
endpoint's behavior, especially when sending, is predictable and consistent. For robustness
and compatibility with non-WebRTC systems that might be connected to a WebRTC session via
a gateway, implementations are
extensions (see also Section 4.1).

 be signaled. This signaling ensures that a WebRTC

 to ignore unknown RTCP packets and RTP header

REQUIRED

MUST

RTCP bandwidth:

 be done as described in

Support for exchanging RTCP bandwidth values with the endpoints will be
SHALL

necessary. This
Modiﬁers for RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Bandwidth" [RFC3556]
semantically equivalent. This also ensures that the endpoints have a common view of the
RTCP bandwidth. A common view of the RTCP bandwidth among diﬀerent endpoints is
important to prevent diﬀerences in RTCP packet timing and timeout intervals causing
interoperability problems.

 if using SDP, or something

"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Bandwidth

These parameters are often expressed in SDP messages conveyed within an oﬀer/answer
exchange. RTP does not depend on SDP or the oﬀer/answer model but does require all the
necessary parameters to be agreed upon and provided to the RTP implementation. Note that in
WebRTC, it will depend on the signaling model and API how these parameters need to be
conﬁgured, but they will need to either be set in the API or explicitly signaled between the peers.

11.  WebRTC API Considerations

 and the

WebRTC API [W3C.WebRTC]

Media Capture and Streams API [W3C.WD-

 deﬁne and use the concept of a MediaStream that consists of zero or

The
mediacapture-streams]
more MediaStreamTracks. A MediaStreamTrack is an individual stream of media from any type
of media source, such as a microphone or a camera, but conceptual sources, like an audio mix or
a video composition, are also possible. The MediaStreamTracks within a MediaStream might
need to be synchronized during playback.

A MediaStreamTrack's realization in RTP, in the context of an RTCPeerConnection, consists of a
source packet stream, identiﬁed by an SSRC, sent within an RTP session that is part of the
RTCPeerConnection. The MediaStreamTrack can also result in additional packet streams, and
thus SSRCs, in the same RTP session. These can be dependent packet streams from scalable
encoding of the source stream associated with the MediaStreamTrack, if such a media encoder is
used. They can also be redundancy packet streams; these are created when applying
Error Correction (Section 6.2)

Forward
 to the source packet stream.

RTP retransmission (Section 6.1)

 or

It is important to note that the same media source can be feeding multiple MediaStreamTracks.
As diﬀerent sets of constraints or other parameters can be applied to the MediaStreamTrack,
each MediaStreamTrack instance added to an RTCPeerConnection

 result in an

SHALL

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

independent source packet stream with its own set of associated packet streams and thus
diﬀerent SSRC(s). It will depend on applied constraints and parameters if the source stream and
the encoding conﬁguration will be identical between diﬀerent MediaStreamTracks sharing the
same media source. If the encoding parameters and constraints are the same, an implementation
could choose to use only one encoded stream to create the diﬀerent RTP packet streams. Note
that such optimizations would need to take into account that the constraints for one of the
MediaStreamTracks can change at any moment, meaning that the encoding conﬁgurations might
no longer be identical, and two diﬀerent encoder instances would then be needed.

The same MediaStreamTrack can also be included in multiple MediaStreams; thus, multiple sets
of MediaStreams can implicitly need to use the same synchronization base. To ensure that this
works in all cases and does not force an endpoint to disrupt the media by changing
synchronization base and CNAME during delivery of any ongoing packet streams, all
MediaStreamTracks and their associated SSRCs originating from the same endpoint need to be
sent using the same CNAME within one RTCPeerConnection. This is motivating the use of a single
CNAME in Section 4.9.

The requirement to use the same CNAME for all SSRCs that originate from the same
endpoint does not require a middlebox that forwards traﬃc from multiple
endpoints to only use a single CNAME.

Diﬀerent CNAMEs normally need to be used for diﬀerent RTCPeerConnection instances, as
speciﬁed in Section 4.9. Having two communication sessions with the same CNAME could enable
tracking of a user or device across diﬀerent services (see
 for details). A
web application can request that the CNAMEs used in diﬀerent RTCPeerConnections (within a
same-origin context) be the same; this allows for synchronization of the endpoint's RTP packet
streams across the diﬀerent RTCPeerConnections.

Section 4.4.1 of [RFC8826]

Note: This doesn't result in a tracking issue, since the creation of matching CNAMEs
depends on existing tracking within a single origin.

The above will currently force a WebRTC endpoint that receives a MediaStreamTrack on one
RTCPeerConnection and adds it as outgoing one on any RTCPeerConnection to perform
resynchronization of the stream. Since the sending party needs to change the CNAME to the one
it uses, this implies it has to use a local system clock as the timebase for the synchronization.
Thus, the relative relation between the timebase of the incoming stream and the system sending
out needs to be deﬁned. This relation also needs monitoring for clock drift and likely adjustments
of the synchronization. The sending entity is also responsible for congestion control for its sent
streams. In cases of packet loss, the loss of incoming data also needs to be handled. This leads to
the observation that the method that is least likely to cause issues or interruptions in the
outgoing source packet stream is a model of full decoding, including repair, followed by encoding
of the media again into the outgoing packet stream. Optimizations of this method are clearly
possible and implementation speciﬁc.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

MUST

A WebRTC endpoint
diﬀerent MediaStreamTracks (and its sets of associated packet streams) uses diﬀerent CNAMEs.
However, MediaStreamTracks that are received with diﬀerent CNAMEs have no deﬁned
synchronization.

 support receiving multiple MediaStreamTracks, where each of the

Note: The motivation for supporting reception of multiple CNAMEs is to allow for
forward compatibility with any future changes that enable more eﬃcient stream
handling when endpoints relay/forward streams. It also ensures that endpoints can
interoperate with certain types of multistream middleboxes or endpoints that are
not WebRTC.

 speciﬁes that the binding between

"JavaScript Session Establishment Protocol (JSEP)" [RFC8829]
the WebRTC MediaStreams, MediaStreamTracks, and the SSRC is done as speciﬁed in
MediaStream Identiﬁcation in the Session Description Protocol" [RFC8830]
 also deﬁnes how to map source packet
MediaStream Identiﬁcation (MSID) document [RFC8830]
streams with unknown SSRCs to MediaStreamTracks and MediaStreams. This later is relevant to
handle some cases of legacy interoperability. Commonly, the RTP payload type of any incoming
packets will reveal if the packet stream is a source stream or a redundancy or dependent packet
stream. The association to the correct source packet stream depends on the payload format in
use for the packet stream.

"WebRTC
the

. Section 4.1 of

Finally, this speciﬁcation puts a requirement on the WebRTC API to realize a method for
determining the
(when supported); the basic requirements for this is further discussed in Section 12.2.1.

CSRC list (Section 4.1)

mixer-to-client audio levels (Section 5.2.3)

 as well as the

12.  RTP Implementation Considerations

The following discussion provides some guidance on the implementation of the RTP features
described in this memo. The focus is on a WebRTC endpoint implementation perspective, and
while some mention is made of the behavior of middleboxes, that is not the focus of this memo.

12.1.  Conﬁguration and Use of RTP Sessions

A WebRTC endpoint will be a simultaneous participant in one or more RTP sessions. Each RTP
session can convey multiple media sources and include media data from multiple endpoints. In
the following, some ways in which WebRTC endpoints can conﬁgure and use RTP sessions are
outlined.

12.1.1.  Use of Multiple Media Sources within an RTP Session

RTP is a group communication protocol, and every RTP session can potentially contain multiple
RTP packet streams. There are several reasons why this might be desirable:

•

Multiple media types:

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

Outside of WebRTC, it is common to use one RTP session for each type of media source (e.g.,
one RTP session for audio sources and one for video sources, each sent over diﬀerent
transport-layer ﬂows). However, to reduce the number of UDP ports used, the default in
WebRTC is to send all types of media in a single RTP session, as described in Section 4.4,
using RTP and RTCP multiplexing (Section 4.5) to further reduce the number of UDP ports
needed. This RTP session then uses only one bidirectional transport-layer ﬂow but will
contain multiple RTP packet streams, each containing a diﬀerent type of media. A common
example might be an endpoint with a camera and microphone that sends two RTP packet
streams, one video and one audio, into a single RTP session.

•

Multiple capture devices:

A WebRTC endpoint might have multiple cameras, microphones, or other media capture
devices, and so it might want to generate several RTP packet streams of the same media type.
Alternatively, it might want to send media from a single capture device in several diﬀerent
formats or quality settings at once. Both can result in a single endpoint sending multiple RTP
packet streams of the same media type into a single RTP session at the same time.

•

Associated repair data:

An endpoint might send an RTP packet stream that is somehow associated with another
stream. For example, it might send an RTP packet stream that contains FEC or retransmission
data relating to another stream. Some RTP payload formats send this sort of associated
repair data as part of the source packet stream, while others send it as a separate packet
stream.

•

Layered or multiple-description coding:

Within a single RTP session, an endpoint can use a layered media codec -- for example, H.264
Scalable Video Coding (SVC) -- or a multiple-description codec that generates multiple RTP
packet streams, each with a distinct RTP SSRC.

•

RTP mixers, translators, and other middleboxes:

An RTP session, in the WebRTC context, is a point-to-point association between an endpoint
and some other peer device, where those devices share a common SSRC space. The peer
device might be another WebRTC endpoint, or it might be an RTP mixer, translator, or some
other form of media-processing middlebox. In the latter cases, the middlebox might send
mixed or relayed RTP streams from several participants, which the WebRTC endpoint will
need to render. Thus, even though a WebRTC endpoint might only be a member of a single
RTP session, the peer device might be extending that RTP session to incorporate other
endpoints. WebRTC is a group communication environment, and endpoints need to be
capable of receiving, decoding, and playing out multiple RTP packet streams at once, even in
a single RTP session.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

12.1.2.  Use of Multiple RTP Sessions

In addition to sending and receiving multiple RTP packet streams within a single RTP session, a
WebRTC endpoint might participate in multiple RTP sessions. There are several reasons why a
WebRTC endpoint might choose to do this:

•

To interoperate with legacy devices:

The common practice in the non-WebRTC world is to send diﬀerent types of media in
separate RTP sessions -- for example, using one RTP session for audio and another RTP
session, on a separate transport-layer ﬂow, for video. All WebRTC endpoints need to support
the option of sending diﬀerent types of media on diﬀerent RTP sessions so they can
interwork with such legacy devices. This is discussed further in Section 4.4.

•

To provide enhanced quality of service:

Some network-based quality-of-service mechanisms operate on the granularity of transport-
layer ﬂows. If use of these mechanisms to provide diﬀerentiated quality of service for some
RTP packet streams is desired, then those RTP packet streams need to be sent in a separate
RTP session using a diﬀerent transport-layer ﬂow, and with appropriate quality-of-service
marking. This is discussed further in Section 12.1.3.

•

To separate media with diﬀerent purposes:

An endpoint might want to send RTP packet streams that have diﬀerent purposes on
diﬀerent RTP sessions, to make it easy for the peer device to distinguish them. For example,
some centralized multiparty conferencing systems display the active speaker in high
resolution but show low-resolution "thumbnails" of other participants. Such systems might
conﬁgure the endpoints to send simulcast high- and low-resolution versions of their video
using separate RTP sessions to simplify the operation of the RTP middlebox. In the WebRTC
context, this is currently possible by establishing multiple WebRTC MediaStreamTracks that
have the same media source in one (or more) RTCPeerConnection. Each MediaStreamTrack
is then conﬁgured to deliver a particular media quality and thus media bitrate, and it will
produce an independently encoded version with the codec parameters agreed speciﬁcally in
the context of that RTCPeerConnection. The RTP middlebox can distinguish packets
corresponding to the low- and high-resolution streams by inspecting their SSRC, RTP payload
type, or some other information contained in RTP payload, RTP header extension, or RTCP
packets. However, it can be easier to distinguish the RTP packet streams if they arrive on
separate RTP sessions on separate transport-layer ﬂows.

•

To directly connect with multiple peers:

A multiparty conference does not need to use an RTP middlebox. Rather, a multi-unicast
mesh can be created, comprising several distinct RTP sessions, with each participant sending
RTP traﬃc over a separate RTP session (that is, using an independent RTCPeerConnection
object) to every other participant, as shown in Figure 1. This topology has the beneﬁt of not
requiring an RTP middlebox node that is trusted to access and manipulate the media data.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

The downside is that it increases the used bandwidth at each sender by requiring one copy
of the RTP packet streams for each participant that is part of the same session beyond the
sender itself.

+---+     +---+
| A |<--->| B |
+---+     +---+
  ^         ^
   \       /
    \     /
     v   v
     +---+
     | C |
     +---+

Figure 1: Multi-unicast Using Several RTP Sessions

RECOMMENDED

 that this be implemented

The multi-unicast topology could also be implemented as a single RTP session, spanning
multiple peer-to-peer transport-layer connections, or as several pairwise RTP sessions, one
between each pair of peers. To maintain a coherent mapping of the relationship between
RTP sessions and RTCPeerConnection objects, it is
as several individual RTP sessions. The only downside is that endpoint A will not learn of the
quality of any transmission happening between B and C, since it will not see RTCP reports for
the RTP session between B and C, whereas it would if all three participants were part of a
single RTP session. Experience with the Mbone tools (experimental RTP-based multicast
conferencing tools from the late 1990s) has shown that RTCP reception quality reports for
third parties can be presented to users in a way that helps them understand asymmetric
network problems, and the approach of using separate RTP sessions prevents this. However,
an advantage of using separate RTP sessions is that it enables using diﬀerent media bitrates
and RTP session conﬁgurations between the diﬀerent peers, thus not forcing B to endure the
same quality reductions as C will if there are limitations in the transport from A to C. It is
believed that these advantages outweigh the limitations in debugging power.

•

To indirectly connect with multiple peers:

A common scenario in multiparty conferencing is to create indirect connections to multiple
peers, using an RTP mixer, translator, or some other type of RTP middlebox. Figure 2 outlines
a simple topology that might be used in a four-person centralized conference. The middlebox
acts to optimize the transmission of RTP packet streams from certain perspectives, either by
only sending some of the received RTP packet stream to any given receiver, or by providing a
combined RTP packet stream out of a set of contributing streams.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

+---+      +-------------+      +---+
| A |<---->|             |<---->| B |
+---+      | RTP mixer,  |      +---+
           | translator, |
           | or other    |
+---+      | middlebox   |      +---+
| C |<---->|             |<---->| D |
+---+      +-------------+      +---+

Figure 2: RTP Mixer with Only Unicast Paths

There are various methods of implementation for the middlebox. If implemented as a
standard RTP mixer or translator, a single RTP session will extend across the middlebox and
encompass all the endpoints in one multiparty session. Other types of middleboxes might use
separate RTP sessions between each endpoint and the middlebox. A common aspect is that
these RTP middleboxes can use a number of tools to control the media encoding provided by
a WebRTC endpoint. This includes functions like requesting the breaking of the encoding
chain and having the encoder produce a so-called Intra frame. Another common aspect is
limiting the bitrate of a stream to better match the mixed output. Other aspects are
controlling the most suitable frame rate, picture resolution, and the trade-oﬀ between frame
rate and spatial quality. The middlebox has the responsibility to correctly perform
congestion control, identify sources, and manage synchronization while providing the
application with suitable media optimizations. The middlebox also has to be a trusted node
when it comes to security, since it manipulates either the RTP header or the media itself (or
both) received from one endpoint before sending them on towards the endpoint(s); thus they
need to be able to decrypt and then re-encrypt the RTP packet stream before sending it out.

Mixers are expected to not forward RTCP reports regarding RTP packet streams across
themselves. This is due to the diﬀerence between the RTP packet streams provided to the
diﬀerent endpoints. The original media source lacks information about a mixer's
manipulations prior to being sent to the diﬀerent receivers. This scenario also results in an
endpoint's feedback or requests going to the mixer. When the mixer can't act on this by itself,
it is forced to go to the original media source to fulﬁll the receiver's request. This will not
necessarily be explicitly visible to any RTP and RTCP traﬃc, but the interactions and the time
to complete them will indicate such dependencies.

Providing source authentication in multiparty scenarios is a challenge. In the mixer-based
topologies, endpoints source authentication is based on, ﬁrstly, verifying that media comes
from the mixer by cryptographic veriﬁcation and, secondly, trust in the mixer to correctly
identify any source towards the endpoint. In RTP sessions where multiple endpoints are
directly visible to an endpoint, all endpoints will have knowledge about each others' master
keys and can thus inject packets claiming to come from another endpoint in the session. Any
node performing relay can perform noncryptographic mitigation by preventing forwarding
of packets that have SSRC ﬁelds that came from other endpoints before. For cryptographic

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

veriﬁcation of the source, SRTP would require additional security mechanisms -- for
example,
that are not part of the base WebRTC standards.

Timed Eﬃcient Stream Loss-Tolerant Authentication (TESLA) for SRTP [RFC4383]

 --

•

To forward media between multiple peers:

It is sometimes desirable for an endpoint that receives an RTP packet stream to be able to
forward that RTP packet stream to a third party. The are some obvious security and privacy
implications in supporting this, but also potential uses. This is supported in the W3C API by
taking the received and decoded media and using it as a media source that is re-encoded and
transmitted as a new stream.

At the RTP layer, media forwarding acts as a back-to-back RTP receiver and RTP sender. The
receiving side terminates the RTP session and decodes the media, while the sender side re-
encodes and transmits the media using an entirely separate RTP session. The original sender
will only see a single receiver of the media, and will not be able to tell that forwarding is
happening based on RTP-layer information, since the RTP session that is used to send the
forwarded media is not connected to the RTP session on which the media was received by
the node doing the forwarding.

The endpoint that is performing the forwarding is responsible for producing an RTP packet
stream suitable for onwards transmission. The outgoing RTP session that is used to send the
forwarded media is entirely separate from the RTP session on which the media was received.
This will require media transcoding for congestion control purposes to produce a suitable
bitrate for the outgoing RTP session, reducing media quality and forcing the forwarding
endpoint to spend the resource on the transcoding. The media transcoding does result in a
separation of the two diﬀerent legs, removing almost all dependencies, and allowing the
forwarding endpoint to optimize its media transcoding operation. The cost is greatly
increased computational complexity on the forwarding node. Receivers of the forwarded
stream will see the forwarding device as the sender of the stream and will not be able to tell
from the RTP layer that they are receiving a forwarded stream rather than an entirely new
RTP packet stream generated by the forwarding device.

12.1.3.  Diﬀerentiated Treatment of RTP Streams

There are use cases for diﬀerentiated treatment of RTP packet streams. Such diﬀerentiation can
happen at several places in the system. First of all is the prioritization within the endpoint
sending the media, which controls both which RTP packet streams will be sent and their
allocation of bitrate out of the current available aggregate, as determined by the congestion
control.

WebRTC API [W3C.WebRTC]

 will allow the application to indicate relative

It is expected that the
priorities for diﬀerent MediaStreamTracks. These priorities can then be used to inﬂuence the
local RTP processing, especially when it comes to determining how to divide the available
bandwidth between the RTP packet streams for the sake of congestion control. Any changes in
relative priority will also need to be considered for RTP packet streams that are associated with
the main RTP packet streams, such as redundant streams for RTP retransmission and FEC. The
importance of such redundant RTP packet streams is dependent on the media type and codec

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

used, with regard to how robust that codec is against packet loss. However, a default policy might
be to use the same priority for a redundant RTP packet stream as for the source RTP packet
stream.

Secondly, the network can prioritize transport-layer ﬂows and subﬂows, including RTP packet
streams. Typically, diﬀerential treatment includes two steps, the ﬁrst being identifying whether
an IP packet belongs to a class that has to be treated diﬀerently, the second consisting of the
actual mechanism for prioritizing packets. Three common methods for classifying IP packets are:

DiﬀServ:

The endpoint marks a packet with a DiﬀServ code point to indicate to the network that

the packet belongs to a particular class.

Flow based:

Packets that need to be given a particular treatment are identiﬁed using a

combination of IP and port address.

Deep packet inspection:

A network classiﬁer (DPI) inspects the packet and tries to determine if

the packet represents a particular application and type that is to be prioritized.

Flow-based diﬀerentiation will provide the same treatment to all packets within a transport-
layer ﬂow, i.e., relative prioritization is not possible. Moreover, if the resources are limited, it
might not be possible to provide diﬀerential treatment compared to best eﬀort for all the RTP
packet streams used in a WebRTC session. The use of ﬂow-based diﬀerentiation needs to be
coordinated between the WebRTC system and the network(s). The WebRTC endpoint needs to
know that ﬂow-based diﬀerentiation might be used to provide the separation of the RTP packet
streams onto diﬀerent UDP ﬂows to enable a more granular usage of ﬂow-based diﬀerentiation.
The used ﬂows, their 5-tuples, and prioritization will need to be communicated to the network so
that it can identify the ﬂows correctly to enable prioritization. No speciﬁc protocol support for
this is speciﬁed.

DiﬀServ assumes that either the endpoint or a classiﬁer can mark the packets with an
appropriate Diﬀerentiated Services Code Point (DSCP) so that the packets are treated according
to that marking. If the endpoint is to mark the traﬃc, two requirements arise in the WebRTC
context: 1) The WebRTC endpoint has to know which DSCPs to use and know that it can use them
on some set of RTP packet streams. 2) The information needs to be propagated to the operating
system when transmitting the packet. Details of this process are outside the scope of this memo
and are further discussed in
.
WebRTC QoS" [RFC8837]

"Diﬀerentiated Services Code Point (DSCP) Packet Markings for

Despite the SRTP media encryption, deep packet inspectors will still be fairly capable of
classifying the RTP streams. The reason is that SRTP leaves the ﬁrst 12 bytes of the RTP header
unencrypted. This enables easy RTP stream identiﬁcation using the SSRC and provides the
classiﬁer with useful information that can be correlated to determine, for example, the stream's
media type. Using packet sizes, reception times, packet inter-spacing, RTP timestamp increments,
and sequence numbers, fairly reliable classiﬁcations are achieved.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

For packet-based marking schemes, it might be possible to mark individual RTP packets
diﬀerently based on the relative priority of the RTP payload. For example, video codecs that have
I, P, and B pictures could prioritize any payloads carrying only B frames less, as these are less
damaging to lose. However, depending on the QoS mechanism and what markings are applied,
this can result in not only diﬀerent packet-drop probabilities but also packet reordering; see
[RFC8837]
 for further discussion. As a default policy, all RTP packets related to an
RTP packet stream ought to be provided with the same prioritization; per-packet prioritization is
outside the scope of this memo but might be speciﬁed elsewhere in future.

[RFC7657]

 and

It is also important to consider how RTCP packets associated with a particular RTP packet stream
need to be marked. RTCP compound packets with Sender Reports (SRs) ought to be marked with
the same priority as the RTP packet stream itself, so the RTCP-based round-trip time (RTT)
measurements are done using the same transport-layer ﬂow priority as the RTP packet stream
experiences. RTCP compound packets containing an RR packet ought to be sent with the priority
used by the majority of the RTP packet streams reported on. RTCP packets containing time-
critical feedback packets can use higher priority to improve the timeliness and likelihood of
delivery of such feedback.

12.2.  Media Source, RTP Streams, and Participant Identiﬁcation

12.2.1.  Media Source Identiﬁcation

Each RTP packet stream is identiﬁed by a unique synchronization source (SSRC) identiﬁer. The
SSRC identiﬁer is carried in each of the RTP packets comprising an RTP packet stream, and is also
used to identify that stream in the corresponding RTCP reports. The SSRC is chosen as discussed
in Section 4.8. The ﬁrst stage in demultiplexing RTP and RTCP packets received on a single
transport-layer ﬂow at a WebRTC endpoint is to separate the RTP packet streams based on their
SSRC value; once that is done, additional demultiplexing steps can determine how and where to
render the media.

RTP allows a mixer, or other RTP-layer middlebox, to combine encoded streams from multiple
media sources to form a new encoded stream from a new media source (the mixer). The RTP
packets in that new RTP packet stream can include a contributing source (CSRC) list, indicating
which original SSRCs contributed to the combined source stream. As described in Section 4.1,
implementations need to support reception of RTP data packets containing a CSRC list and RTCP
packets that relate to sources present in the CSRC list. The CSRC list can change on a packet-by-
packet basis, depending on the mixing operation being performed. Knowledge of what media
sources contributed to a particular RTP packet can be important if the user interface indicates
which participants are active in the session. Changes in the CSRC list included in packets need to
be exposed to the WebRTC application using some API if the application is to be able to track
changes in session participation. It is desirable to map CSRC values back into WebRTC
MediaStream identities as they cross this API, to avoid exposing the SSRC/CSRC namespace to
WebRTC applications.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

If the mixer-to-client audio level extension
5.2.3), the information in the CSRC list is augmented by audio-level information for each
contributing source. It is desirable to expose this information to the WebRTC application using
some API, after mapping the CSRC values to WebRTC MediaStream identities, so it can be exposed
in the user interface.

 is being used in the session (see Section

[RFC6465]

12.2.2.  SSRC Collision Detection

The RTP standard requires RTP implementations to have support for detecting and handling
SSRC collisions -- i.e., be able to resolve the conﬂict when two diﬀerent endpoints use the same
SSRC value (see
). This requirement also applies to WebRTC endpoints.
There are several scenarios where SSRC collisions can occur:

Section 8.2 of [RFC3550]

•

In a point-to-point session where each SSRC is associated with either of the two endpoints
and the main media-carrying SSRC identiﬁer will be announced in the signaling channel, a
collision is less likely to occur due to the information about used SSRCs. If SDP is used, this
information is provided by
occur if both endpoints start using a new SSRC identiﬁer prior to having signaled it to the
peer and received acknowledgement on the signaling message.
Attributes in the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" [RFC5576]
signal how the endpoint resolved the SSRC collision.

"Source-Speciﬁc Media
 contains a mechanism to

source-speciﬁc SDP attributes [RFC5576]

. Still, collisions can

•

SSRC values that have not been signaled could also appear in an RTP session. This is more
likely than it appears, since some RTP functions use extra SSRCs to provide their
functionality. For example, retransmission data might be transmitted using a separate RTP
packet stream that requires its own SSRC, separate from the SSRC of the source RTP packet
stream
. In those cases, an endpoint can create a new SSRC that strictly doesn't
need to be announced over the signaling channel to function correctly on both RTP and
RTCPeerConnection level.

[RFC4588]

•

Multiple endpoints in a multiparty conference can create new sources and signal those
towards the RTP middlebox. In cases where the SSRC/CSRC are propagated between the
diﬀerent endpoints from the RTP middlebox, collisions can occur.

•

An RTP middlebox could connect an endpoint's RTCPeerConnection to another
RTCPeerConnection from the same endpoint, thus forming a loop where the endpoint will
receive its own traﬃc. While it is clearly considered a bug, it is important that the endpoint
be able to recognize and handle the case when it occurs. This case becomes even more
problematic when media mixers and such are involved, where the stream received is a
diﬀerent stream but still contains this client's input.

These SSRC/CSRC collisions can only be handled on the RTP level when the same RTP session is
extended across multiple RTCPeerConnections by an RTP middlebox. To resolve the more generic
case where multiple RTCPeerConnections are interconnected, identiﬁcation of the media source
or sources that are part of a MediaStreamTrack being propagated across multiple interconnected
RTCPeerConnection needs to be preserved across these interconnections.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

12.2.3.  Media Synchronization Context

When an endpoint sends media from more than one media source, it needs to consider if (and
which of) these media sources are to be synchronized. In RTP/RTCP, synchronization is provided
by having a set of RTP packet streams be indicated as coming from the same synchronization
context and logical endpoint by using the same RTCP CNAME identiﬁer.

The next provision is that the internal clocks of all media sources -- i.e., what drives the RTP
timestamp -- can be correlated to a system clock that is provided in RTCP Sender Reports encoded
in an NTP format. By correlating all RTP timestamps to a common system clock for all sources,
the timing relation of the diﬀerent RTP packet streams, also across multiple RTP sessions, can be
derived at the receiver and, if desired, the streams can be synchronized. The requirement is for
the media sender to provide the correlation information; whether or not the information is used
is up to the receiver.

13.  Security Considerations

The overall security architecture for WebRTC is described in
considerations for the WebRTC framework are described in
apply to this memo.

[RFC8827]
[RFC8826]

, and security
. These considerations also

The security considerations of the RTP speciﬁcation, the RTP/SAVPF proﬁle, and the various RTP/
RTCP extensions and RTP payload formats that form the complete protocol suite described in this
memo apply. It is believed that there are no new security considerations resulting from the
combination of these various protocol extensions.

"Extended Secure RTP Proﬁle for Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback
(RTP/SAVPF)" [RFC5124]
integrity, and partial source authentication. A media-security solution that is mandatory to
implement and use is created by combining this secured RTP proﬁle and
DTLS-SRTP keying
Section 5.5 of [RFC8827]
[RFC5764]

 provides handling of fundamental issues by oﬀering conﬁdentiality,

, as deﬁned by

.

RTCP packets convey a Canonical Name (CNAME) identiﬁer that is used to associate RTP packet
streams that need to be synchronized across related RTP sessions. Inappropriate choice of
CNAME values can be a privacy concern, since long-term persistent CNAME identiﬁers can be
used to track users across multiple WebRTC calls. Section 4.9 of this memo mandates generation
of short-term persistent RTCP CNAMES, as speciﬁed in RFC 7022, resulting in untraceable CNAME
values that alleviate this risk.

Some potential denial-of-service attacks exist if the RTCP reporting interval is conﬁgured to an
inappropriate value. This could be done by conﬁguring the RTCP bandwidth fraction to an
excessively large or small value using the SDP "b=RR:" or "b=RS:" lines

[RFC3556]

 or some similar

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

mechanism, or by choosing an excessively large or small value for the RTP/AVPF minimal
[RFC4585]
receiver report interval (if using SDP, this is the "a=rtcp-fb:... trr-int" parameter)
risks are as follows:

. The

1.

the RTCP bandwidth could be conﬁgured to make the regular reporting interval so large that
eﬀective congestion control cannot be maintained, potentially leading to denial of service
due to congestion caused by the media traﬃc;

2.

the RTCP interval could be conﬁgured to a very small value, causing endpoints to generate
high-rate RTCP traﬃc, potentially leading to denial of service due to the RTCP traﬃc not
being congestion controlled; and

3.

RTCP parameters could be conﬁgured diﬀerently for each endpoint, with some of the
endpoints using a large reporting interval and some using a smaller interval, leading to
denial of service due to premature participant timeouts due to mismatched timeout periods
that are based on the reporting interval. This is a particular concern if endpoints use a small
but nonzero value for the RTP/AVPF minimal receiver report interval (trr-int)
discussed in

Section 6.1 of [RFC8108]

[RFC4585]

, as

.

). To address the other concerns, endpoints

Premature participant timeout can be avoided by using the ﬁxed (nonreduced) minimum
interval when calculating the participant timeout (see Section 4.1 of this memo and
of [RFC8108]
conﬁgure the RTCP reporting interval to be signiﬁcantly longer than the default ﬁve-second
interval speciﬁed in
interval roughly corresponds to 5% of the media data rate), or that conﬁgure the RTCP reporting
interval small enough that the RTCP bandwidth would exceed the media bandwidth.

 (unless the media data rate is so low that the longer reporting

 ignore parameters that

Section 7.1.2

[RFC3550]

SHOULD

[RFC6562]

 apply when using variable bitrate (VBR) audio codecs such as Opus

The guidelines in
(see Section 4.3 for discussion of mandated audio codecs). The guidelines in
but are of lesser importance, when using the client-to-mixer audio level header extensions
(Section 5.2.2) or the mixer-to-client audio level header extensions (Section 5.2.3). The use of the
encryption of the header extensions are
RECOMMENDED
RTP middleboxes performing voice-activity-based source selection or third-party monitoring that
will greatly beneﬁt from the information, and this has been expressed using API or signaling. If
further evidence is produced to show that information leakage is signiﬁcant from audio-level
indications, then use of encryption needs to be mandated at that time.

, unless there are known reasons, like

 also apply,

[RFC6562]

In multiparty communication scenarios using RTP middleboxes, a lot of trust is placed on these
middleboxes to preserve the session's security. The middlebox needs to maintain conﬁdentiality
and integrity and perform source authentication. As discussed in Section 12.1.1, the middlebox
can perform checks that prevent any endpoint participating in a conference from impersonating
another. Some additional security considerations regarding multiparty topologies can be found
in

[RFC7667]

.

14.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

15.  References

15.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2736]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3551]

[RFC3556]

[RFC3711]

[RFC4566]

[RFC4585]

[RFC4588]

[RFC4961]

[RFC5104]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Handley, M. and C. Perkins "Guidelines for Writers of RTP Payload Format
, December 1999,
Speciﬁcations" BCP 36 RFC 2736 DOI 10.17487/RFC2736
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2736>

,

,

,

.

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
,
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

.

,

,

,

Schulzrinne, H. and S. Casner "RTP Proﬁle for Audio and Video Conferences
, July 2003,
,
with Minimal Control" STD 65 RFC 3551 DOI 10.17487/RFC3551
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3551>

,
,

,

,

Casner, S. "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Bandwidth Modiﬁers for RTP
Control Protocol (RTCP) Bandwidth" RFC 3556 DOI 10.17487/RFC3556
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3556>

,

,

.

, July 2003,

Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K. Norrman "The Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, March

,
.

,

,

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Ott, J., Wenger, S., Sato, N., Burmeister, C., and J. Rey "Extended RTP Proﬁle for
Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" RFC
,
4585 DOI 10.17487/RFC4585
rfc4585>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2006,

,

.

,

Rey, J., Leon, D., Miyazaki, A., Varsa, V., and R. Hakenberg "RTP Retransmission
<https://www.rfc-
Payload Format" RFC 4588 DOI 10.17487/RFC4588
.
editor.org/info/rfc4588>

, July 2006,

,

,

,

,
Wing, D. "Symmetric RTP / RTP Control Protocol (RTCP)" BCP 131 RFC 4961 DOI
10.17487/RFC4961

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4961>

, July 2007,

,

,

.

,

Wenger, S., Chandra, U., Westerlund, M., and B. Burman "Codec Control
Messages in the RTP Audio-Visual Proﬁle with Feedback (AVPF)" RFC 5104 DOI
10.17487/RFC5104

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5104>

, February 2008,

,

.

,

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

[RFC5124]

[RFC5506]

[RFC5761]

[RFC5764]

[RFC6051]

[RFC6464]

[RFC6465]

[RFC6562]

[RFC6904]

[RFC7007]

[RFC7022]

[RFC7160]

Ott, J. and E. Carrara "Extended Secure RTP Proﬁle for Real-time Transport
Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/SAVPF)" RFC 5124 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5124

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5124>

, February 2008,

,

,

,

.

Johansson, I. and M. Westerlund "Support for Reduced-Size Real-Time
Transport Control Protocol (RTCP): Opportunities and Consequences" RFC 5506
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC5506

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5506>

, April 2009,

.

,

,

Perkins, C. and M. Westerlund "Multiplexing RTP Data and Control Packets on a
,
,
Single Port" RFC 5761 DOI 10.17487/RFC5761
editor.org/info/rfc5761>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2010,

.

,

McGrew, D. and E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)"
RFC 5764 DOI 10.17487/RFC5764
rfc5764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2010,

,
.

,

,

Perkins, C. and T. Schierl "Rapid Synchronisation of RTP Flows" RFC 6051 DOI
.
10.17487/RFC6051

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6051>

, November 2010,

,

,

,

,
Lennox, J., Ed., Ivov, E., and E. Marocco "A Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP)
Header Extension for Client-to-Mixer Audio Level Indication" RFC 6464 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6464>
10.17487/RFC6464

, December 2011,

,

,

.

Ivov, E., Ed., Marocco, E., Ed., and J. Lennox "A Real-time Transport Protocol
(RTP) Header Extension for Mixer-to-Client Audio Level Indication" RFC 6465
DOI 10.17487/RFC6465
rfc6465>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2011,

,

.

,

,

Perkins, C. and JM. Valin "Guidelines for the Use of Variable Bit Rate Audio with
,
,
Secure RTP" RFC 6562 DOI 10.17487/RFC6562
editor.org/info/rfc6562>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2012,

.

,

,

Lennox, J. "Encryption of Header Extensions in the Secure Real-time Transport
Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 6904 DOI 10.17487/RFC6904
<https://www.rfc-
.
editor.org/info/rfc6904>

, April 2013,

,

,

,

Terriberry, T. "Update to Remove DVI4 from the Recommended Codecs for the
RTP Proﬁle for Audio and Video Conferences with Minimal Control (RTP/AVP)"
, August 2013,
RFC 7007 DOI 10.17487/RFC7007
rfc7007>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

Begen, A., Perkins, C., Wing, D., and E. Rescorla "Guidelines for Choosing RTP
Control Protocol (RTCP) Canonical Names (CNAMEs)" RFC 7022 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7022

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7022>

, September 2013,

,

,

.

,

Petit-Huguenin, M. and G. Zorn, Ed. "Support for Multiple Clock Rates in an RTP
Session" RFC 7160 DOI 10.17487/RFC7160
editor.org/info/rfc7160>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2014,

,

,

.

,

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

[RFC7164]

[RFC7742]

[RFC7874]

[RFC8083]

[RFC8108]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8285]

[RFC8825]

[RFC8826]

[RFC8827]

[RFC8843]

[RFC8854]

[RFC8858]

[RFC8860]

Gross, K. and R. Brandenburg "RTP and Leap Seconds" RFC 7164 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7164

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7164>

, March 2014,

,

.

,

,

Roach, A.B. "WebRTC Video Processing and Codec Requirements" RFC 7742 DOI
10.17487/RFC7742

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7742>

, March 2016,

,

.

,

,

Valin, JM. and C. Bran "WebRTC Audio Codec and Processing Requirements"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 7874 DOI 10.17487/RFC7874
, May 2016,
rfc7874>

,
.

,

Perkins, C. and V. Singh "Multimedia Congestion Control: Circuit Breakers for
Unicast RTP Sessions" RFC 8083 DOI 10.17487/RFC8083
<https://
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8083>

, March 2017,

,

,

.

Lennox, J., Westerlund, M., Wu, Q., and C. Perkins "Sending Multiple RTP
,
Streams in a Single RTP Session" RFC 8108 DOI 10.17487/RFC8108
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8108>

,

.

,

, March 2017,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

,
Singer, D., Desineni, H., and R. Even, Ed. "A General Mechanism for RTP Header
,
,
Extensions" RFC 8285 DOI 10.17487/RFC8285
editor.org/info/rfc8285>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2017,

.

,

,
Alvestrand, H. "Overview: Real-Time Protocols for Browser-Based Applications"
, January 2021,
RFC 8825 DOI 10.17487/RFC8825
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8825>

,
.

Rescorla, E. "Security Considerations for WebRTC" RFC 8826 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8826

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8826>

, January 2021,

.

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "WebRTC Security Architecture" RFC 8827 DOI 10.17487/RFC8827
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8827>

,

,

,

Holmberg, C., Alvestrand, H., and C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8843 DOI 10.17487/RFC8843
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8843>

,
,

,

,
Uberti, J. "WebRTC Forward Error Correction Requirements" RFC 8854 DOI
.
10.17487/RFC8854

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8854>

, January 2021,

,

,

,

Holmberg, C. "Indicating Exclusive Support of RTP and RTP Control Protocol
,
(RTCP) Multiplexing Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8858
DOI 10.17487/RFC8858

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8858>

, January 2021,

,

.

Westerlund, M., Perkins, C., and J. Lennox "Sending Multiple Types of Media in a
Single RTP Session" RFC 8860 DOI 10.17487/RFC8860
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8860>

, January 2021,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

[RFC8861]

Lennox, J., Westerlund, M., Wu, Q., and C. Perkins "Sending Multiple RTP
Streams in a Single RTP Session: Grouping RTP Control Protocol (RTCP)
Reception Statistics and Other Feedback" RFC 8861 DOI 10.17487/RFC8861
January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8861>

,

.

,

,

,

[W3C.WD-mediacapture-streams]

Jennings, C., Aboba, B., Bruaroey, J-I., and H. Boström
"Media Capture and Streams" W3C Candidate Recommendation <https://
www.w3.org/TR/mediacapture-streams/>

,

,

.

,

[W3C.WebRTC]

Jennings, C., Boström, H., and J-I. Bruaroey "WebRTC 1.0: Real-time

,

Communication Between Browsers" W3C Proposed Recommendation <https://
www.w3.org/TR/webrtc/>

.

,

,

15.2.  Informative References

[RFC3611]

[RFC4383]

[RFC5576]

[RFC5968]

[RFC6263]

[RFC6792]

[RFC7478]

[RFC7656]

Friedman, T., Ed., Caceres, R., Ed., and A. Clark, Ed. "RTP Control Protocol
,
Extended Reports (RTCP XR)" RFC 3611 DOI 10.17487/RFC3611
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3611>

.

,

,

, November 2003,

Baugher, M. and E. Carrara "The Use of Timed Eﬃcient Stream Loss-Tolerant
Authentication (TESLA) in the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC
,
4383 DOI 10.17487/RFC4383
rfc4383>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2006,

,

.

,

,
Lennox, J., Ott, J., and T. Schierl "Source-Speciﬁc Media Attributes in the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 5576 DOI 10.17487/RFC5576
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5576>

, June 2009,

,

,

.

,
Ott, J. and C. Perkins "Guidelines for Extending the RTP Control Protocol
(RTCP)" RFC 5968 DOI 10.17487/RFC5968
editor.org/info/rfc5968>

, September 2010,

,

,

.

<https://www.rfc-

Marjou, X. and A. Sollaud "Application Mechanism for Keeping Alive the NAT
Mappings Associated with RTP / RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Flows" RFC 6263
DOI 10.17487/RFC6263

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6263>

, June 2011,

,

.

,

,

Wu, Q., Ed., Hunt, G., and P. Arden "Guidelines for Use of the RTP Monitoring
,
Framework" RFC 6792 DOI 10.17487/RFC6792
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6792>

, November 2012,

<https://

,

.

,

Holmberg, C., Hakansson, S., and G. Eriksson "Web Real-Time Communication
,
Use Cases and Requirements" RFC 7478 DOI 10.17487/RFC7478
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7478>

, March 2015,

,

.

,

Lennox, J., Gross, K., Nandakumar, S., Salgueiro, G., and B. Burman, Ed. "A
Taxonomy of Semantics and Mechanisms for Real-Time Transport Protocol
(RTP) Sources" RFC 7656 DOI 10.17487/RFC7656
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7656>

, November 2015,

,

,

.

,

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

[RFC7657]

[RFC7667]

[RFC8088]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8829]

[RFC8830]

[RFC8836]

[RFC8837]

[RFC8872]

Black, D., Ed. and P. Jones "Diﬀerentiated Services (Diﬀserv) and Real-Time
,
Communication" RFC 7657 DOI 10.17487/RFC7657
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7657>

, November 2015,

<https://

,

.

Westerlund, M. and S. Wenger "RTP Topologies" RFC 7667 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7667

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7667>

, November 2015,

,

,

.

,

Westerlund, M. "How to Write an RTP Payload Format" RFC 8088 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8088>
RFC8088

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

Uberti, J., Jennings, C., and E. Rescorla, Ed. "JavaScript Session Establishment
,
Protocol (JSEP)" RFC 8829 DOI 10.17487/RFC8829
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8829>

, January 2021,

<https://

,

.

,

,

Alvestrand, H. "WebRTC MediaStream Identiﬁcation in the Session Description
Protocol" RFC 8830 DOI 10.17487/RFC8830
editor.org/info/rfc8830>

<https://www.rfc-

, January 2021,

.

,

,

Jesup, R. and Z. Sarker, Ed. "Congestion Control Requirements for Interactive
Real-Time Media" RFC 8836 DOI 10.17487/RFC8836
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8836>

, January 2021,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Jones, P., Dhesikan, S., Jennings, C., and D. Druta "Diﬀerentiated Services Code
Point (DSCP) Packet Markings for WebRTC QoS" RFC 8837 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8837

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8837>

, January 2021,

,
,

,

.

Westerlund, M., Burman, B., Perkins, C., Alvestrand, H., and R. Even "Guidelines
,
for Using the Multiplexing Features of RTP to Support Multiple Media Streams"
, January 2021,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 8872 DOI 10.17487/RFC8872
rfc8872>

,
.

,

Acknowledgements

,

Bernard Aboba Harald Alvestrand Cary Bran Ben Campbell
The authors would like to thank
,
Alissa Cooper Spencer Dawkins Charles Eckel Alex Eleftheriadis Christian Groves Chris Inacio
,
Cullen Jennings Olle Johansson Suhas Nandakumar Dan Romascanu Jim Spring Martin
,
Thomson
feedback.

, and the other members of the IETF RTCWEB working group for their valuable

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 8834

RTP for WebRTC

January 2021

Authors' Addresses

Colin Perkins
University of Glasgow
School of Computing Science
Glasgow
G12 8QQ
United Kingdom
Email:
URI:

 csp@csperkins.org
 https://csperkins.org/

Magnus Westerlund
Ericsson
Torshamnsgatan 23
SE-
164 80 Kista
Sweden
Email:

 magnus.westerlund@ericsson.com

Jörg Ott
Technical University Munich
Department of Informatics
Chair of Connected Mobility
Boltzmannstrasse 3
85748 Garching
Germany
Email:

 ott@in.tum.de

Perkins, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

