Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8839
5245, 6336
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721

M. Petit-Huguenin
Impedance Mismatch

S. Nandakumar
Cisco Systems

C. Holmberg
Ericsson

A. Keränen
Ericsson

R. Shpount
TurboBridge

RFC 8839
Session Description Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer
Procedures for Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE)

Abstract

This document describes Session Description Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer procedures for
carrying out Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) between the agents.

This document obsoletes RFCs 5245 and 6336.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8839

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modiﬁcations of
such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modiﬁed
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions

3.  Terminology

4.  SDP Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

4.1.  Introduction

4.2.  Generic Procedures

4.2.1.  Encoding

4.2.2.  RTP/RTCP Considerations

4.2.3.  Determining Role

4.2.4.  STUN Considerations

4.2.5.  Verifying ICE Support Procedures

4.2.6.  SDP Example

4.3.  Initial Oﬀer/Answer Exchange

4.3.1.  Sending the Initial Oﬀer

4.3.2.  Sending the Initial Answer

4.3.3.  Receiving the Initial Answer

4.3.4.  Concluding ICE

4.4.  Subsequent Oﬀer/Answer Exchanges

4.4.1.  Sending Subsequent Oﬀer

4.4.2.  Sending Subsequent Answer

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

4.4.3.  Receiving Answer for a Subsequent Oﬀer

5.  Grammar

5.1.  "candidate" Attribute

5.2.  "remote-candidates" Attribute

5.3.  "ice-lite" and "ice-mismatch" Attributes

5.4.  "ice-ufrag" and "ice-pwd" Attributes

5.5.  "ice-pacing" Attribute

5.6.  "ice-options" Attribute

6.  Keepalives

7.  SIP Considerations

7.1.  Latency Guidelines

7.1.1.  Oﬀer in INVITE

7.1.2.  Oﬀer in Response

7.2.  SIP Option Tags and Media Feature Tags

7.3.  Interactions with Forking

7.4.  Interactions with Preconditions

7.5.  Interactions with Third Party Call Control

8.  Interactions with Application Layer Gateways and SIP

9.  Security Considerations

9.1.  IP Address Privacy

9.2.  Attacks on the Oﬀer/Answer Exchanges

9.3.  The Voice Hammer Attack

10. IANA Considerations

10.1.  SDP Attributes

10.1.1.  "candidate" Attribute

10.1.2.  "remote-candidates" Attribute

10.1.3.  "ice-lite" Attribute

10.1.4.  "ice-mismatch" Attribute

10.1.5.  "ice-pwd" Attribute

10.1.6.  "ice-ufrag" Attribute

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

10.1.7.  "ice-options" Attribute

10.1.8.  "ice-pacing" Attribute

10.2.  Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) Options Registry

10.3.  Candidate Attribute Extension Subregistry Establishment

11. Changes from RFC 5245

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Examples

Appendix B.  The "remote-candidates" Attribute

Appendix C.  Why Is the Conﬂict Resolution Mechanism Needed?

Appendix D.  Why Send an Updated Oﬀer?

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document describes how Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) is used with Session
Description Protocol (SDP) oﬀer/answer
procedures that are common to all usages of ICE, and this document gives the additional details
needed to use ICE with SDP oﬀer/answer.

. The ICE speciﬁcation

[RFC3264]

[RFC8445]

 describes

This document obsoletes RFCs 5245 and 6336.

NOTE: Previously both the common ICE procedures, and the SDP oﬀer/answer speciﬁc details,
were described in
 obsoleted
details were removed from the document. Section 11 describes the changes to the SDP oﬀer/
answer-speciﬁc details speciﬁed in this document.

, and the SDP oﬀer/answer-speciﬁc

.
[RFC5245] [RFC8445]

[RFC5245]

2.  Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

3.  Terminology

Readers should be familiar with the terminology deﬁned in
following:

[RFC3264]

, in

[RFC8445]

, and the

Default Destination/Candidate:

The default destination for a component of a data stream is the

transport address that would be used by an agent that is not ICE aware. A default candidate
for a component is one whose transport address matches the default destination for that
component. For the RTP component, the default connection address is in the "c=" line of the
SDP, and the port and transport protocol are in the "m=" line. For the RTP Control Protocol
(RTCP) component, the address and port are indicated using the "rtcp" attribute deﬁned in
, if present; otherwise, the RTCP component address is the same as the address of
[RFC3605]
the RTP component, and its port is one greater than the port of the RTP component.

4.  SDP Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

4.1.  Introduction

 deﬁnes ICE candidate exchange as the process for ICE agents (initiator and responder)

[RFC8445]
to exchange their candidate information required for ICE processing at the agents. For the
purposes of this speciﬁcation, the candidate exchange process corresponds to the Oﬀer/Answer
protocol
responder roles from

, and the terms "oﬀerer" and "answerer" correspond to the initiator and

 respectively.

[RFC3264]

[RFC8445]

Once the initiating agent has gathered, pruned, and prioritized its set of candidates
the candidate exchange with the peer agent begins.

,
[RFC8445]

4.2.  Generic Procedures

4.2.1.  Encoding

Section 5 provides detailed rules for constructing various SDP attributes deﬁned in this
speciﬁcation.

4.2.1.1.  Data Streams

Each data stream

[RFC8445]

 is represented by an SDP media description ("m=" section).

4.2.1.2.  Candidates

Within an "m=" section, each candidate (including the default candidate) associated with the data
stream is represented by an SDP "candidate" attribute.

Prior to nomination, the "c=" line associated with an "m=" section contains the connection
address of the default candidate, while the "m=" line contains the port and transport protocol of
the default candidate for that "m=" section.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

After nomination, the "c=" line for a given "m=" section contains the connection address of the
nominated candidate (the local candidate of the nominated candidate pair), and the "m=" line
contains the port and transport protocol corresponding to the nominated candidate for that "m="
section.

4.2.1.3.  Username and Password

The ICE username is represented by an SDP "ice-ufrag" attribute, and the ICE password is
represented by an SDP "ice-pwd" attribute.

4.2.1.4.  Lite Implementations

An ICE-lite implementation
implementation
MUST NOT

[RFC8445] MUST
 include that attribute.

 include an SDP "ice-lite" attribute. A full

4.2.1.5.  ICE Extensions

An agent uses the SDP "ice-options" attribute to indicate support of ICE extensions.

 include an SDP "ice-options" attribute with an
An agent compliant with this speciﬁcation
"ice2" attribute value
. If an agent receives an SDP oﬀer or answer that indicates ICE
support, but that does not contain an SDP "ice-options" attribute with an "ice2" attribute value,
the agent can assume that the peer is compliant to

.
[RFC5245]

[RFC8445]

MUST

4.2.1.6.  Inactive and Disabled Data Streams

If an "m=" section is marked as inactive
the agent

MUST

 still include ICE-related SDP attributes.

[RFC4566]

, or has a bandwidth value of zero

,
[RFC4566]

If the port value associated with an "m=" section is set to zero (implying a disabled stream) as
deﬁned in
attributes in that "m=" section, unless an SDP extension specifying otherwise is used.

 include ICE-related SDP "candidate"

Section 8.2 of [RFC3264]

SHOULD NOT

, the agent

4.2.2.  RTP/RTCP Considerations

If an agent utilizes both RTP and RTCP, and separate ports are used for RTP and RTCP, the agent
MUST

 include SDP "candidate" attributes for both the RTP and RTCP components.

. Hence, in the
The agent includes an SDP "rtcp" attribute following the procedures in
cases where the RTCP port value is one higher than the RTP port value and the RTCP component
address the same as the address of the RTP component, the SDP "rtcp" attribute might be omitted.

[RFC3605]

[RFC5245]

 required that an agent always includes the SDP "rtcp" attribute, even if the
NOTE:
RTCP port value was one higher than the RTP port value. This speciﬁcation aligns the "rtcp"
attribute procedures with

.
[RFC3605]

If the agent does not utilize RTCP, it indicates that by including "RS:0" and "RR:0" SDP attributes
as described in

[RFC3556]

.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

4.2.3.  Determining Role

The oﬀerer acts as the initiating agent. The answerer acts as the responding agent. The ICE roles
(controlling and controlled) are determined using the procedures in

[RFC8445]
.

4.2.4.  STUN Considerations

Once an agent has provided its local candidates to its peer in an SDP oﬀer or answer, the agent
) connectivity
MUST
check Binding requests on those candidates.

 be prepared to receive STUN (Session Traversal Utilities for NAT,

[RFC5389]

4.2.5.  Verifying ICE Support Procedures

An ICE agent indicates support of ICE by including at least the SDP "ice-pwd" and "ice-ufrag"
attributes in an oﬀer or answer. An ICE agent compliant with this speciﬁcation
an SDP "ice-options" attribute with an "ice2" attribute value.

MUST

 also include

The agents will proceed with the ICE procedures deﬁned in
 and this speciﬁcation if,
for each data stream in the SDP it received, the default destination for each component of that
data stream appears in a "candidate" attribute. For example, in the case of RTP, the connection
address, port, and transport protocol in the "c=" and "m=" lines, respectively, appear in a
"candidate" attribute, and the value in the "rtcp" attribute appears in a "candidate" attribute.

[RFC8445]

This speciﬁcation provides no guidance on how an agent should proceed in the cases where the
above condition is not met with the few exceptions noted below:

1.

2.

3.

4.

The presence of certain Application Layer Gateways might modify the transport address
information as described in Section 8. The behavior of the responding agent in such a
situation is implementation dependent. Informally, the responding agent might consider the
mismatched transport address information as a plausible new candidate learned from the
peer and continue its ICE processing with that transport address included. Alternatively, the
responding agent
streams. If an agent chooses to include an "ice-mismatch" attribute in its answer for a data
stream, then it
procedures, and

 include an "ice-mismatch" attribute in its answer for such data

 be used instead for this data stream.

 also omit "candidate" attributes,

 terminate the usage of ICE

 procedures

[RFC3264]

MUST

MUST

MUST

MAY

The transport address from the peer for the default destination is set to IPv4/IPv6 address
values "0.0.0.0"/"::" and port value of "9". This
 be considered as an ICE failure by
the peer agent, and the ICE processing

 continue as usual.

MUST NOT

MUST

In some cases, the controlling/initiator agent may receive an SDP answer that may omit
"candidate" attributes for the data stream, and instead include a media-level "ice-mismatch"
attribute. This signals to the oﬀerer that the answerer supports ICE, but that ICE processing
was not used for this data stream. In this case, ICE processing
data stream, and

MUST
 be followed instead.

 be terminated for this

 procedures

[RFC3264]

MUST

The transport address from the peer for the default destination is an FQDN. Regardless of the
procedures used to resolve FQDN or the resolution result, this
 be considered as an
ICE failure by the peer agent, and the ICE processing

MUST NOT
 continue as usual.

MUST

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

4.2.6.  SDP Example

The following is an example SDP message that includes ICE attributes (lines folded for
readability):

v=0
o=jdoe 2890844526 2890842807 IN IP4 203.0.113.141
s=
c=IN IP4 192.0.2.3
t=0 0
a=ice-options:ice2
a=ice-pacing:50
a=ice-pwd:asd88fgpdd777uzjYhagZg
a=ice-ufrag:8hhY
m=audio 45664 RTP/AVP 0
b=RS:0
b=RR:0
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706431 203.0.113.141 8998 typ host
a=candidate:2 1 UDP 1694498815 192.0.2.3 45664 typ srflx raddr
 203.0.113.141 rport 8998

4.3.  Initial Oﬀer/Answer Exchange

4.3.1.  Sending the Initial Oﬀer

When an oﬀerer generates the initial oﬀer, in each "m=" section it
 include SDP "candidate"
attributes for each available candidate associated with the "m=" section. In addition, the oﬀerer
 include an SDP "ice-ufrag" attribute, an SDP "ice-pwd" attribute, and an SDP "ice-options"
MUST
attribute with an "ice2" attribute value in the oﬀer. If the oﬀerer is a full ICE implementation, it
SHOULD
apply). A lite ICE implementation
will not perform connectivity checks).

 include an "ice-pacing" attribute in the oﬀer (if not included, the default value will

 include the "ice-pacing" attribute in the oﬀer (as it

MUST NOT

MUST

It is valid for an oﬀer "m=" line to include no SDP "candidate" attributes and have the default
destination set to the IP address values "0.0.0.0"/"::" and the port value to "9". This implies that the
oﬀering agent is only going to use peer-reﬂexive candidates or will provide additional candidates
in subsequent signaling messages.

Note:

Within the scope of this document, "initial oﬀer" refers to the ﬁrst SDP oﬀer that is sent in

order to negotiate usage of ICE. It might, or might not, be the initial SDP oﬀer of the SDP
session.

Note:

The procedures in this document only consider "m=" sections associated with data

streams where ICE is used.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

4.3.2.  Sending the Initial Answer

When an answerer receives an initial oﬀer indicating that the oﬀerer supports ICE, and if the
answerer accepts the oﬀer and the usage of ICE, the answerer
within the answer the SDP "candidate" attributes for each available candidate associated with
the "m=" section. In addition, the answerer
 include an SDP "ice-ufrag" attribute, an SDP
MUST
"ice-pwd" attribute, and an SDP "ice-options" attribute with an "ice2" attribute value in the
answer. If the answerer is a full ICE implementation, it
in the answer (if not included, the default value will apply). A lite ICE implementation
include the "ice-pacing" attribute in the answer (as it will not perform connectivity checks).

 include an "ice-pacing" attribute
MUST NOT

 include in each "m=" section

SHOULD

MUST

In each "m=" line, the answerer
"m=" line. If none of the candidates in the "m=" line in the answer uses the same transport
protocol as indicated in the oﬀer "m=" line, then, in order to avoid ICE mismatch, the default
destination

 be set to IP address values "0.0.0.0"/"::" and port value of "9".

 use the same transport protocol as was used in the oﬀer

MUST

MUST

It is also valid for an answer "m=" line to include no SDP "candidate" attributes and have the
default destination set to the IP address values "0.0.0.0"/"::" and the port value to "9". This implies
that the answering agent is only going to use peer-reﬂexive candidates or that additional
candidates would be provided in subsequent signaling messages.

Once the answerer has sent the answer, it can start performing connectivity checks towards the
peer candidates that were provided in the oﬀer.

If the oﬀer does not indicate support of ICE (Section 4.2.5), the answerer
usage of ICE. If the answerer still accepts the oﬀer, the answerer
related SDP attributes in the answer. Instead, the answerer will generate the answer according to
normal oﬀer/answer procedures

 include any ICE-

 accept the

.
[RFC3264]

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

If the answerer detects a possibility of an ICE mismatch, procedures described in Section 4.2.5
are followed.

4.3.3.  Receiving the Initial Answer

When an oﬀerer receives an initial answer that indicates that the answerer supports ICE, it can
start performing connectivity checks towards the peer candidates that were provided in the
answer.

If the answer does not indicate that the answerer supports ICE, or if the answerer included "ice-
mismatch" attributes for all the active data streams in the answer, the oﬀerer
the usage of ICE for the entire session, and

MUST
 be followed instead.

 procedures

 terminate

[RFC3264]

MUST

On the other hand, if the answer indicates support for ICE but includes "ice-mismatch" in certain
active data streams, then the oﬀerer
[RFC3264]
 be used
procedures
for data streams where an "ice-mismatch" attribute was not included.

 be used instead for only these data streams. Also, ICE procedures

 terminate the usage of ICE procedures, and

MUST

MUST

MUST

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

If the oﬀerer detects an ICE mismatch for one or more data streams in the answer, as described
in Section 4.2.5, the oﬀerer
subsequent actions taken by the oﬀerer are implementation dependent and are out of the scope
of this speciﬁcation.

 terminate the usage of ICE for the entire session. The

MUST

4.3.4.  Concluding ICE

[RFC8445]

, the state of the checklist associated

Once the agent has successfully nominated a pair
with the pair is set to Completed. Once the state of each checklist is set to either Completed or
Failed, for each Completed checklist, the agent checks whether the nominated pair matches the
default candidate pair. If there are one or more pairs that do not match, and the peer did not
indicate support for the 'ice2' ice-option, the controlling agent
in which the connection address, port, and transport protocol in the "c=" and "m=" lines
associated with each data stream match the corresponding local information of the nominated
pair for that data stream (Section 4.4.1.2.2). If the peer did indicate support for the 'ice2' ice-
option, the controlling agent does not immediately need to generate an updated oﬀer in order to
align a connection address, port, and protocol with a nominated pair. However, later in the
session, whenever the controlling agent does send a subsequent oﬀer, it
as described above.

 generate a subsequent oﬀer

 do the alignment

MUST

MUST

If there are one or more checklists with the state set to Failed, the controlling agent
generate a subsequent oﬀer in order to remove the associated data streams by setting the port
value of the data streams to zero (Section 4.4.1.1.2), even if the peer did indicate support for the
'ice2' ice-option. If needed, such oﬀer is used to align the connection address, port, and transport
protocol, as described above.

MUST

[RFC8445]

As described in
checklist, the agent
ICE session (i.e., until ICE is restarted).

MUST NOT

, once the controlling agent has nominated a candidate pair for a

 nominate another pair for that checklist during the lifetime of the

 provides a mechanism for allowing the ICE process to run long enough in order to ﬁnd

[RFC8863]
working candidate pairs, by waiting for potential peer-reﬂexive candidates, even though no
candidate pairs were received from the peer or all current candidate pairs associated with a
checklist have either failed or been discarded.

4.4.  Subsequent Oﬀer/Answer Exchanges

Either agent
deﬁnes rules for construction of subsequent oﬀers and answers.

 generate a subsequent oﬀer at any time allowed by

MAY

[RFC3264]

. This section

Should a subsequent oﬀer fail, ICE processing continues as if the subsequent oﬀer had never
been made.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

4.4.1.  Sending Subsequent Oﬀer

4.4.1.1.  Procedures for All Implementations

4.4.1.1.1.  ICE Restart

An agent

MAY

 restart ICE processing for an existing data stream

[RFC8445]

.

The rules governing the ICE restart imply that setting the connection address in the "c=" line to
"0.0.0.0" (for IPv4)/ "::" (for IPv6) will cause an ICE restart. Consequently, ICE implementations
 use "inactive" and "sendonly"
MUST NOT
as described in

 utilize this mechanism for call hold, and instead

[RFC3264]

MUST

.

MUST

To restart ICE, an agent
 change both the "ice-pwd" and the "ice-ufrag" for the data stream
in an oﬀer. However, it is permissible to use a session-level attribute in one oﬀer, but to provide
the same "ice-pwd" or "ice-ufrag" as a media-level attribute in a subsequent oﬀer. This
MUST NOT
be considered as ICE restart.

An agent sets the rest of the ICE-related ﬁelds in the SDP for this data stream as it would in an
initial oﬀer of this data stream (Section 4.2.1). Consequently, the set of candidates
 include
some, none, or all of the previous candidates for that data stream and
set of candidates. The agent
"ice-pacing" attributes, and it
MUST NOT
oﬀer unless the oﬀer is sent in order to request an ICE restart.

 modify the attribute values of the SDP "ice-options" and SDP
 change its role using the SDP "ice-lite" attribute. The agent
 modify the SDP "ice-options", "ice-pacing", and "ice-lite" attributes in a subsequent

MAY

MAY

MAY

MAY

 include a totally new

4.4.1.1.2.  Removing a Data Stream

If an agent removes a data stream by setting its port to zero, it
attributes for that data stream and
in Section 5 for that data stream.

SHOULD NOT

 include any "candidate"
 include any other ICE-related attributes deﬁned

MUST NOT

4.4.1.1.3.  Adding a Data Stream

If an agent wishes to add a new data stream, it sets the ﬁelds in the SDP for this data stream as if
this were an initial oﬀer for that data stream (Section 4.2.1). This will cause ICE processing to
begin for this data stream.

4.4.1.2.  Procedures for Full Implementations

This section describes additional procedures for full implementations, covering existing data
streams.

4.4.1.2.1.  Before Nomination

When an oﬀerer sends a subsequent oﬀer; in each "m=" section for which a candidate pair has
not yet been nominated, the oﬀer
oﬀerer included in the previous oﬀer or answer. The agent
did not oﬀer previously, but which it has gathered since the last oﬀer/answer exchange,
including peer-reﬂexive candidates.

 include the same set of ICE-related information that the
 include additional candidates it

MUST

MAY

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

The agent
set of "candidate" attributes in the oﬀer matching this default destination.

 change the default destination for media. As with initial oﬀers, there

MAY

MUST

 be a

4.4.1.2.2.  After Nomination

Once a candidate pair has been nominated for a data stream, the connection address, port, and
transport protocol in each "c=" and "m=" line associated with that data stream
 match the
data associated with the nominated pair for that data stream. In addition, the oﬀerer only
includes SDP "candidate" attributes (one per component) representing the local candidates of the
nominated candidate pair. The oﬀerer
 include any other SDP "candidate" attributes in
the subsequent oﬀer.

MUST NOT

MUST

In addition, if the agent is controlling, it
MUST
data stream whose checklist is in the Completed state. The attribute contains the remote
candidates corresponding to the nominated pair in the valid list for each component of that data
stream. It is needed to avoid a race condition whereby the controlling agent chooses its pairs, but
the updated oﬀer beats the connectivity checks to the controlled agent, which doesn't even know
these pairs are valid, let alone selected. See Appendix B for elaboration on this race condition.

 include the "remote-candidates" attribute for each

4.4.1.3.  Procedures for Lite Implementations

If the ICE state is Running, a lite implementation
component of each data stream in "candidate" attributes in any subsequent oﬀer. The candidates
are formed identically to the procedures for initial oﬀers.

 include all of its candidates for each

MUST

 modify the username fragments and passwords. If an agent needs to oﬀer additional

MUST NOT

A lite implementation
NOT
candidates, or to modify the username fragments and passwords, it
(Section 4.4.1.1.1) for that data stream.

 add additional host candidates in a subsequent oﬀer, and

MUST

MUST

 request an ICE restart

If ICE has completed for a data stream, and if the agent is controlled, the default destination for
that data stream
the valid list. For a lite implementation, there is always just a single candidate pair in the valid
list for each component of a data stream. Additionally, the agent
attribute for each default destination.

 be set to the remote candidate of the candidate pair for that component in

 include a "candidate"

MUST

MUST

If the ICE state is Completed, and if the agent is controlling (which only happens when both
agents are lite), the agent
 include the "remote-candidates" attribute for each data stream.
The attribute contains the remote candidates from the candidate pairs in the valid list (one pair
for each component of each data stream).

MUST

4.4.2.  Sending Subsequent Answer

If ICE is Completed for a data stream, and the oﬀer for that data stream lacked the "remote-
candidates" attribute, the rules for construction of the answer are identical to those for the
oﬀerer, except that the answerer
answer.

 include the "remote-candidates" attribute in the

MUST NOT

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

A controlled agent will receive an oﬀer with the "remote-candidates" attribute for a data stream
when its peer has concluded ICE processing for that data stream. This attribute is present in the
oﬀer to deal with a race condition between the receipt of the oﬀer, and the receipt of the Binding
response that tells the answerer the candidate that will be selected by ICE. See Appendix B for an
explanation of this race condition. Consequently, processing of an oﬀer with this attribute
depends on the winner of the race.

The agent forms a candidate pair for each component of the data stream by:

•

Setting the remote candidate equal to the oﬀerer's default destination for that component
(i.e., the contents of the "m=" and "c=" lines for RTP, and the "rtcp" attribute for RTCP)

•

Setting the local candidate equal to the transport address for that same component in the
"remote-candidates" attribute in the oﬀer.

The agent then sees if each of these candidate pairs is present in the valid list. If a particular pair
is not in the valid list, the check has "lost" the race. Call such a pair a "losing pair".

The agent ﬁnds all the pairs in the checklist whose remote candidates equal the remote
candidate in the losing pair:

•

If none of the pairs is In-Progress, and at least one is Failed, it is most likely that a network
failure, such as a network partition or serious packet loss, has occurred. The agent
SHOULD
generate an answer for this data stream as if the "remote- candidates" attribute had not been
present, and then restart ICE for this stream.

•

If at least one of the pairs is In-Progress, the agent
and as each completes, redo the processing in this section until there are no losing pairs.

 wait for those checks to complete,

SHOULD

Once there are no losing pairs, the agent can generate the answer. It
destination for media to the candidates in the "remote-candidates" attribute from the oﬀer (each
of which will now be the local candidate of a candidate pair in the valid list). It
"candidate" attribute in the answer for each candidate in the "remote-candidates" attribute in the
oﬀer.

 set the default

 include a

MUST

MUST

4.4.2.1.  ICE Restart

If the oﬀerer in a subsequent oﬀer requested an ICE restart (Section 4.4.1.1.1) for a data stream,
and if the answerer accepts the oﬀer, the answerer follows the procedures for generating an
initial answer.

For a given data stream, the answerer
previous ICE session, but it

MUST

MAY

 include the same candidates that were used in the

 change the SDP "ice-pwd" and "ice-ufrag" attribute values.

MAY

MAY

 change its role using the SDP "ice-lite" attribute. The answerer

 modify the attribute values of the SDP "ice-options" and SDP "ice-pacing"

The answerer
attributes, and it
modify the SDP "ice-options", "ice-pacing", and "ice-lite" attributes in a subsequent answer unless
the answer is sent for an oﬀer that was used to request an ICE restart (Section 4.4.1.1.1). If any of
the SDP attributes have been modiﬁed in a subsequent oﬀer that is not used to request an ICE
restart, the answerer

 reject the oﬀer.

MUST NOT

MUST

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

4.4.2.2.  Lite Implementation Speciﬁc Procedures

If the received oﬀer contains the "remote-candidates" attribute for a data stream, the agent forms
a candidate pair for each component of the data stream by:

•

Setting the remote candidate equal to the oﬀerer's default destination for that component
(i.e., the contents of the "m=" and "c=" lines for RTP, and the "rtcp" attribute for RTCP).

•

Setting the local candidate equal to the transport address for that same component in the
"remote-candidates" attribute in the oﬀer.

The state of the checklist associated with that data stream is set to Completed.

Furthermore, if the agent believed it was controlling, but the oﬀer contained the "remote-
candidates" attribute, both agents believe they are controlling. In this case, both would have sent
updated oﬀers around the same time.

However, the signaling protocol carrying the oﬀer/answer exchanges will have resolved this
glare condition, so that one agent is always the 'winner' by having its oﬀer received before its
peer has sent an oﬀer. The winner takes the role of controlling, so that the loser (the answerer
under consideration in this section)

 change its role to controlled.

MUST

Consequently, if the agent was controlling based on the rules in
going to send an updated oﬀer, it no longer needs to.

Section 8.2 of [RFC8445]

 and was

Besides the potential role change, change in the valid list, and state changes, the construction of
the answer is performed identically to the construction of an oﬀer.

4.4.3.  Receiving Answer for a Subsequent Oﬀer

4.4.3.1.  Procedures for Full Implementations

There may be certain situations where the oﬀerer receives an SDP answer that lacks ICE
candidates although the initial answer included them. One example of such an "unexpected"
answer might happen when an ICE-unaware Back-to-Back User Agent (B2BUA) introduces a
media server during call hold using third party call control procedures
. Omitting
further details on how this is done, this could result in an answer that was constructed by the
B2BUA being received at the holding UA. With the B2BUA being ICE-unaware, that answer would
not include ICE candidates.

[RFC3725]

Receiving an answer without ICE attributes in this situation might be unexpected, but would not
necessarily impair the user experience.

When the oﬀerer receives an answer indicating support for ICE, the oﬀer performs one of the
following actions:

•

If the oﬀer was a restart, the agent
Section 4.4.3.1.1.

MUST

 perform ICE restart procedures as speciﬁed in

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

•

If the oﬀer/answer exchange removed a data stream, or an answer rejected an oﬀered data
stream, an agent
STUN transactions in progress for that data stream.

 ﬂush the valid list for that data stream. It

 also terminate any

MUST

MUST

•

If the oﬀer/answer exchange added a new data stream, the agent
 create a new
checklist for it (and an empty valid list to start of course), which in turn triggers the
candidate processing procedures

[RFC8445]

MUST

.

•

If the checklist state associated with a data stream is Running, the agent recomputes the
checklist. If a pair on the new checklist was also on the previous checklist, its candidate pair
state is copied over. Otherwise, its candidate pair state is set to Frozen. If none of the
checklists are active (meaning that the candidate pair states in each checklist are Frozen),
appropriate procedures in
state to further continue ICE processing.

 are performed to move candidate pair(s) to the Waiting

[RFC8445]

•

If the ICE state is Completed, and the SDP answer conforms to Section 4.4.2, the agent
remain in the Completed ICE state.

MUST

However, if the ICE support is no longer indicated in the SDP answer, the agent
[RFC3264]
unexpected answer. When the agent sends a new oﬀer, it

 procedures and

SHOULD NOT

MUST

 drop the dialog because of the missing ICE support or

 perform an ICE restart.

MUST

 fall back to

4.4.3.1.1.  ICE Restarts

MUST

The agent
 remember the nominated pair in the valid list for each component of the data
stream, called the "previous selected pair", prior to the restart. The agent will continue to send
media using this pair, as described in
the agent
states, thus triggering the candidate processing procedures

 ﬂush the valid lists and checklists, and then recompute the checklist and its

Section 12 of [RFC8445]

. Once these destinations are noted,

.
[RFC8445]

MUST

4.4.3.2.  Procedures for Lite Implementations

MUST

 create a new valid list for that data stream.
 remember the nominated pair in the previous valid list for each component of the data

If ICE is restarting for a data stream, the agent
It
stream, called the "previous selected pairs", and continue to send media there as described in
. The state of each checklist for each data stream
Section 12 of [RFC8445]
Running, and the ICE state

 be set to Running.

 change to

MUST

MUST

MUST

5.  Grammar

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes eight new SDP attributes -- the "candidate", "remote-candidates", "ice-
lite", "ice-mismatch", "ice-ufrag", "ice-pwd", "ice-pacing", and "ice-options" attributes.

This section also provides non-normative examples of the attributes deﬁned.

The syntax for the attributes follow Augmented BNF as deﬁned in

[RFC5234]
.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

5.1.  "candidate" Attribute

The "candidate" attribute is a media-level attribute only. It contains a transport address for a
candidate that can be used for connectivity checks.

candidate-attribute   = "candidate" ":" foundation SP component-id SP
                        transport SP
                        priority SP
                        connection-address SP     ;from RFC 4566
                        port         ;port from RFC 4566
                        SP cand-type
                        [SP rel-addr]
                        [SP rel-port]
                        *(SP cand-extension)

foundation            = 1*32ice-char
component-id          = 1*3DIGIT
transport             = "UDP" / transport-extension
transport-extension   = token              ; from RFC 3261
priority              = 1*10DIGIT
cand-type             = "typ" SP candidate-types
candidate-types       = "host" / "srflx" / "prflx" / "relay" / token
rel-addr              = "raddr" SP connection-address
rel-port              = "rport" SP port
cand-extension        = extension-att-name SP extension-att-value
extension-att-name    = token
extension-att-value   = *VCHAR
ice-char              = ALPHA / DIGIT / "+" / "/"

This grammar encodes the primary information about a candidate: its IP address, port and
transport protocol, and its properties: the foundation, component ID, priority, type, and related
transport address:

<connection-address>:

is taken from RFC 4566

[RFC4566]

. It is the IP address of the candidate,

allowing for IPv4 addresses, IPv6 addresses, and fully qualiﬁed domain names (FQDNs).
When parsing this ﬁeld, an agent can diﬀerentiate an IPv4 address and an IPv6 address by
presence of a colon in its value - the presence of a colon indicates IPv6. An agent generating
local candidates
ignore "candidate" lines that include candidates with FQDNs or IP address versions that are
not supported or recognized. The procedures for generation and handling of FQDN
candidates, as well as, how agents indicate support for such procedures, need to be speciﬁed
in an extension speciﬁcation.

 use FQDN addresses. An agent processing remote candidates

MUST NOT

MUST

<port>:

is also taken from RFC 4566

[RFC4566]

. It is the port of the candidate.

<transport>:

indicates the transport protocol for the candidate. This speciﬁcation only deﬁnes

UDP. However, extensibility is provided to allow for future transport protocols to be used with
ICE by extending the subregistry "ICE Transport Protocols" under the "Interactive
Connectivity Establishment (ICE)" registry.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

<foundation>:

is composed of 1 to 32 <ice-char>s. It is an identiﬁer that is equivalent for two
candidates that are of the same type, share the same base, and come from the same STUN
server. The foundation is used to optimize ICE performance in the Frozen algorithm as
described in

[RFC8445]

.

<component-id>:

is a positive integer between 1 and 256 (inclusive) that identiﬁes the speciﬁc

component of the data stream for which this is a candidate. It
increment by 1 for each component of a particular candidate. For data streams based on RTP,
candidates for the actual RTP media
 have a component ID of 2. See
MUST
extending ICE to new data streams.

MUST
Section 13 of [RFC8445]

 have a component ID of 1, and candidates for RTCP

 for additional discussion on

 start at 1 and

MUST

MUST

<priority>:

is a positive integer between 1 and (2**31 - 1) inclusive. The procedures for

computing a candidate's priority are described in

Section 5.1.2 of [RFC8445]

.

<cand-type>:

encodes the type of candidate. This speciﬁcation deﬁnes the values "host", "srﬂx",

"prﬂx", and "relay" for host, server-reﬂexive, peer-reﬂexive, and relayed candidates,
respectively. Speciﬁcations for new candidate types
the ICE processing diﬀer from the ones deﬁned by this speciﬁcation.

MUST

 deﬁne how, if at all, various steps in

<rel-addr> and <rel-port>:

convey transport addresses related to the candidate, useful for

diagnostics and other purposes. <rel-addr> and <rel-port>
reﬂexive, peer-reﬂexive, and relayed candidates. If a candidate is server-reﬂexive or peer-
reﬂexive, <rel-addr> and <rel-port> are equal to the base for that server-reﬂexive or peer-
reﬂexive candidate. If the candidate is relayed, <rel-addr> and <rel-port> are equal to the
mapped address in the Allocate response that provided the client with that relayed candidate
(see
MUST be omitted.

). If the candidate is a host candidate, <rel-addr> and <rel-port>

Section 6.3 of [RFC5766]

 be present for server-

MUST

In some cases, e.g., for privacy reasons, an agent may not want to reveal the related address
and port. In this case the address
candidates) and the port to "9".

 be set to "0.0.0.0" (for IPv4 candidates) or "::" (for IPv6

MUST

The "candidate" attribute can itself be extended. The grammar allows for new name/value pairs
to be added at the end of the attribute. Such extensions
IESG Approval
reference to the document deﬁning the usage of the extension.

 contain the speciﬁc extension and a

 be made through IETF Review or

, and the assignments

[RFC8126]

MUST

MUST

An implementation

MUST

 ignore any name/value pairs it doesn't understand.

The following is an example SDP line for a UDP server-reﬂexive "candidate" attribute for the RTP
component:

a=candidate:2 1 UDP 1694498815 192.0.2.3 45664 typ srflx raddr
203.0.113.141 rport 8998

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

5.2.  "remote-candidates" Attribute

The syntax of the "remote-candidates" attribute is deﬁned using Augmented BNF as deﬁned in
[RFC5234]

. The "remote-candidates" attribute is a media-level attribute only.

remote-candidate-att = "remote-candidates:" remote-candidate
                         0*(SP remote-candidate)
remote-candidate = component-id SP connection-address SP port

The attribute contains a connection-address and port for each component. The ordering of
 be present for each component of a data
components is irrelevant. However, a value
stream. This attribute
is Completed, and

 be included in an oﬀer by a controlling agent for a data stream that
 be included in any other case.

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

The following is an example of "remote-candidates" SDP lines for the RTP and RTCP components:

a=remote-candidates:1 192.0.2.3 45664
a=remote-candidates:2 192.0.2.3 45665

5.3.  "ice-lite" and "ice-mismatch" Attributes

The syntax of the "ice-lite" and "ice-mismatch" attributes, both of which are ﬂags, is:

ice-lite               = "ice-lite"
ice-mismatch           = "ice-mismatch"

"ice-lite" is a session-level attribute only, and indicates that an agent is a lite implementation.
"ice-mismatch" is a media-level attribute and only reported in the answer. It indicates that the
oﬀer arrived with a default destination for a media component that didn't have a corresponding
"candidate" attribute. Inclusion of "ice-mismatch" attribute for a given data stream implies that
even though both agents support ICE, ICE procedures
[RFC3264]

 be used for this data stream, and

 be used instead.

 procedures

MUST NOT

MUST

5.4.  "ice-ufrag" and "ice-pwd" Attributes

The "ice-ufrag" and "ice-pwd" attributes convey the username fragment and password used by
ICE for message integrity. Their syntax is:

ice-pwd-att           = "ice-pwd:" password
ice-ufrag-att         = "ice-ufrag:" ufrag
password              = 22*256ice-char
ufrag                 = 4*256ice-char

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

The "ice-pwd" and "ice-ufrag" attributes can appear at either the session-level or media-level.
When present in both, the value in the media-level takes precedence. Thus, the value at the
session-level is eﬀectively a default that applies to all data streams, unless overridden by a
media-level value. Whether present at the session or media-level, there
 be an "ice-pwd"
and "ice-ufrag" attribute for each data stream. If two data streams have identical "ice-ufrag"s,
they

 have identical "ice-pwd"s.

MUST

MUST

The "ice-ufrag" and "ice-pwd" attributes
(the same applies when ICE is restarting for an agent).

MUST

 be chosen randomly at the beginning of a session

[RFC8445]
 requires the "ice-ufrag" attribute to contain at least 24 bits of randomness, and the
"ice-pwd" attribute to contain at least 128 bits of randomness. This means that the "ice-ufrag"
attribute will be at least 4 characters long, and the "ice-pwd" at least 22 characters long, since the
grammar for these attributes allows for 6 bits of information per character. The attributes
MAY
be longer than 4 and 22 characters, respectively, of course, up to 256 characters. The upper limit
allows for buﬀer sizing in implementations. Its large upper limit allows for increased amounts of
randomness to be added over time. For compatibility with the 512-character limitation for the
STUN username attribute value and for bandwidth conservation considerations, the "ice-ufrag"
attribute
accept up to 256 characters when receiving.

 be longer than 32 characters when sending, but an implementation

MUST NOT

MUST

The following example shows sample "ice-ufrag" and "ice-pwd" SDP lines:

a=ice-pwd:asd88fgpdd777uzjYhagZg
a=ice-ufrag:8hhY

5.5.  "ice-pacing" Attribute

The "ice-pacing" is a session-level attribute that indicates the desired connectivity-check pacing
(Ta interval), in milliseconds, that the sender wishes to use. See
more information regarding selecting a pacing value. The syntax is:

Section 14.2 of [RFC8445]

 for

ice-pacing-att            = "ice-pacing:" pacing-value
pacing-value              = 1*10DIGIT

If absent in an oﬀer or answer, the default value of the attribute is 50 ms, which is the
.
recommended value speciﬁed in

[RFC8445]

[RFC8445]

As deﬁned in
, regardless of the Ta value chosen for each agent, the combination of all
transactions from all agents (if a given implementation runs several concurrent agents) will not
be sent more often than once every 5 ms.

As deﬁned in
agents will use the larger of the indicated values.

[RFC8445]

, once both agents have indicated the pacing value they want to use, both

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

The following example shows an "ice-pacing" SDP line with value '50':

a=ice-pacing:50

5.6.  "ice-options" Attribute

The "ice-options" attribute is a session-level and media-level attribute. It contains a series of
tokens that identify the options supported by the agent. Its grammar is:

ice-options           = "ice-options:" ice-option-tag
                          *(SP ice-option-tag)
ice-option-tag        = 1*ice-char

The existence of an "ice-options" in an oﬀer indicates that a certain extension is supported by the
agent, and it is willing to use it if the peer agent also includes the same extension in the answer.
There might be further extension-speciﬁc negotiation needed between the agents that determine
how the extension gets used in a given session. The details of the negotiation procedures, if
present,

 be deﬁned by the speciﬁcation deﬁning the extension (Section 10.2).

MUST

The following example shows an "ice-options" SDP line with 'ice2' and 'rtp+ecn'

[RFC6679]

 values.

a=ice-options:ice2 rtp+ecn

6.  Keepalives

MUST

 follow the procedures deﬁned in

All the ICE agents
keepalives. As deﬁned in
, the keepalives will be sent regardless of whether the data
stream is currently inactive, sendonly, recvonly, or sendrecv, and regardless of the presence or
value of the bandwidth attribute. An agent can determine that its peer supports ICE by the
presence of "candidate" attributes for each media session.

Section 11 of [RFC8445]

 for sending

[RFC8445]

7.  SIP Considerations

Note that ICE is not intended for NAT traversal for SIP signaling, which is assumed to be provided
via another mechanism

[RFC5626]
.

When ICE is used with SIP, forking may result in a single oﬀer generating a multiplicity of
answers. In that case, ICE proceeds completely in parallel and independently for each answer,
treating the combination of its oﬀer and each answer as an independent oﬀer/answer exchange,
with its own set of local candidates, pairs, checklists, states, and so on.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

7.1.  Latency Guidelines

ICE requires a series of STUN-based connectivity checks to take place between endpoints. These
checks start from the answerer on generation of its answer, and start from the oﬀerer when it
receives the answer. These checks can take time to complete, and as such, the selection of
messages to use with oﬀers and answers can aﬀect perceived user latency. Two latency ﬁgures
are of particular interest. These are the post-pickup delay and the post-dial delay. The post-
pickup delay refers to the time between when a user "answers the phone" and when any speech
they utter can be delivered to the caller. The post-dial delay refers to the time between when a
user enters the destination address for the user and ringback begins as a consequence of having
successfully started alerting the called user agent.

Two cases can be considered -- one where the oﬀer is present in the initial INVITE and one where
it is in a response.

7.1.1.  Oﬀer in INVITE

To reduce post-dial delays, it is
 that the caller begin gathering candidates prior to
actually sending its initial INVITE, so that the candidates can be provided in the INVITE. This can
be started upon user interface cues that a call is pending, such as activity on a keypad or the
phone going oﬀ-hook.

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

[RFC3262]

 generate an answer in a provisional response

On the receipt of the oﬀer, the answerer
as soon as it has completed gathering the candidates. ICE requires that a provisional response
with an SDP be transmitted reliably. This can be done through the existing Provisional Response
Acknowledgment (PRACK) mechanism
wherein, the agent retransmits the provisional response with the exponential backoﬀ timers
described in
 cease on receipt of a STUN Binding request
with the transport address matching the candidate address for one of the data streams signaled
in that SDP or on transmission of the answer in a 2xx response. If no Binding request is received
prior to the last retransmit, the agent does not consider the session terminated. For the ICE-lite
peers, the agent
there will be no Binding request sent, and the number four is arbitrarily chosen to limit the
number of 18x retransmits.

 cease retransmitting the 18x response after sending it four times since

 or through an ICE-speciﬁc optimization,

. Such retransmissions

[RFC3262]

MUST

MUST

Once the answer has been sent, the agent
pairs for each component of a data stream enter the valid list, the answerer can begin sending
media on that data stream.

 begin its connectivity checks. Once candidate

SHOULD

)
[RFC3960] MUST NOT

 be transmitted. For this reason, implementations

However, prior to this point, any media that needs to be sent towards the caller (such as SIP early
media
alerting the called party until candidates for each component of each data stream have entered
the valid list. In the case of a PSTN gateway, this would mean that the setup message into the
PSTN is delayed until this point. Doing this increases the post-dial delay, but has the eﬀect of
eliminating 'ghost rings'. Ghost rings are cases where the called party hears the phone ring, picks
up, but hears nothing and cannot be heard. This technique works without requiring support for,

SHOULD

 delay

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

or usage of, preconditions
packet of media will get clipped, so that post-pickup delay is zero. If an agent chooses to delay
local alerting in this way, it

. It also has the beneﬁt of guaranteeing that not a single

 generate a 180 response once alerting begins.

[RFC3312]

SHOULD

7.1.2.  Oﬀer in Response

In addition to uses where the oﬀer is in an INVITE, and the answer is in the provisional and/or
200 OK response, ICE works with cases where the oﬀer appears in the response. In such cases,
which are common in third party call control
in a reliable provisional response (which
receipt of the INVITE. The answer will arrive in a PRACK. This allows for ICE processing to take
place prior to alerting, so that there is no post-pickup delay, at the expense of increased call setup
delays. Once ICE completes, the callee can alert the user and then generate a 200 OK when they
answer. The 200 OK would contain no SDP, since the oﬀer/answer exchange has completed.

), and not alert the user on

[RFC3725]
 utilize

 generate their oﬀers

, ICE agents

[RFC3262]

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

 place the oﬀer in a 2xx instead (in which case the answer comes in the

Alternatively, agents
ACK). When this happens, the callee will alert the user on receipt of the INVITE, and the ICE
exchanges will take place only after the user answers. This has the eﬀect of reducing call-setup
delay, but can cause substantial post-pickup delays and media clipping.

7.2.  SIP Option Tags and Media Feature Tags

 speciﬁes a SIP option tag and media feature tag for usage with ICE. ICE

[RFC5768]
implementations using SIP
registrations to facilitate interoperability through signaling intermediaries.

 support this speciﬁcation, which uses a feature tag in

SHOULD

7.3.  Interactions with Forking

ICE interacts very well with forking. Indeed, ICE ﬁxes some of the problems associated with
forking. Without ICE, when a call forks and the caller receives multiple incoming data streams, it
cannot determine which data stream corresponds to which callee.

With ICE, this problem is resolved. The connectivity checks which occur prior to transmission of
media carry username fragments which in turn are correlated to a speciﬁc callee. Subsequent
media packets that arrive on the same candidate pair as the connectivity check will be associated
with that same callee. Thus, the caller can perform this correlation as long as it has received an
answer.

7.4.  Interactions with Preconditions

Quality of Service (QoS) preconditions, which are deﬁned in
to the transport addresses listed as the default targets for media in an oﬀer/answer. If ICE
changes the transport address where media is received, this change is reﬂected in an updated
oﬀer that changes the default destination for media to match ICE's selection. As such, it appears
like any other re-INVITE would, and is fully treated in RFCs 3312 and 4032, which apply without
regard to the fact that the destination for media is changing due to ICE negotiations occurring "in
the background".

[RFC4032]

[RFC3312]

, apply only

 and

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

Indeed, an agent
have completed and selected the candidate pairs to be used for media.

SHOULD NOT

 indicate that QoS preconditions have been met until the checks

ICE also has interactions with connectivity preconditions
described there. Note that the procedures described in Section 7.1 describe their own type of
"preconditions", albeit with less functionality than those provided by the explicit preconditions
in

. Those interactions are

[RFC5898]

[RFC5898]

.

7.5.  Interactions with Third Party Call Control

ICE works with Flows I, III, and IV as described in
. Flow I works without the controller
supporting or being aware of ICE. Flow IV will work as long as the controller passes along the ICE
attributes without alteration. Flow II is fundamentally incompatible with ICE; each agent will
believe itself to be the answerer and thus never generate a re-INVITE.

[RFC3725]

The ﬂows for continued operation, as described in
behavior of ICE implementations to support. In particular, if an agent receives a mid-dialog re-
INVITE that contains no oﬀer, it
process of gathering new candidates. Furthermore, that list of candidates
ones currently being used for media.

 restart ICE for each data stream and go through the

Section 7 of [RFC3725]

, require additional

 include the

SHOULD

MUST

8.  Interactions with Application Layer Gateways and SIP

Application Layer Gateways (ALGs) are functions present in a Network Address Translation
(NAT) device that inspect the contents of packets and modify them, in order to facilitate NAT
traversal for application protocols. Session Border Controllers (SBCs) are close cousins of ALGs,
but are less transparent since they actually exist as application-layer SIP intermediaries. ICE has
interactions with SBCs and ALGs.

If an ALG is SIP aware but not ICE aware, ICE will work through it as long as the ALG correctly
modiﬁes the SDP. A correct ALG implementation behaves as follows:

•

The ALG does not modify the "m=" and "c=" lines or the "rtcp" attribute if they contain
external addresses.

•

If the "m=" and "c=" lines contain internal addresses, the modiﬁcation depends on the state of
the ALG:

◦

◦

If the ALG already has a binding established that maps an external port to an internal
connection address and port matching the values in the "m=" and "c=" lines or "rtcp"
attribute, the ALG uses that binding instead of creating a new one.

If the ALG does not already have a binding, it creates a new one and modiﬁes the SDP,
rewriting the "m=" and "c=" lines and "rtcp" attribute.

Unfortunately, many ALGs are known to work poorly in these corner cases. ICE does not try to
work around broken ALGs, as this is outside the scope of its functionality. ICE can help diagnose
these conditions, which often show up as a mismatch between the set of candidates and the "m="
and "c=" lines and "rtcp" attributes. The "ice-mismatch" attribute is used for this purpose.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

ICE works best through ALGs when the signaling is run over TLS. This prevents the ALG from
manipulating the SDP messages and interfering with ICE operation. Implementations that are
expected to be deployed behind ALGs

 provide for TLS transport of the SDP.

SHOULD

If an SBC is SIP aware but not ICE aware, the result depends on the behavior of the SBC. If it is
acting as a proper Back-to-Back User Agent (B2BUA), the SBC will remove any SDP attributes it
doesn't understand, including the ICE attributes. Consequently, the call will appear to both
endpoints as if the other side doesn't support ICE. This will result in ICE being disabled, and
media ﬂowing through the SBC, if the SBC has requested it. If, however, the SBC passes the ICE
attributes without modiﬁcation, yet modiﬁes the default destination for media (contained in the
"m=" and "c=" lines and "rtcp" attribute), this will be detected as an ICE mismatch, and ICE
processing is aborted for the call. It is outside of the scope of ICE for it to act as a tool for
"working around" SBCs. If one is present, ICE will not be used and the SBC techniques take
precedence.

9.  Security Considerations

The generic ICE security considerations are deﬁned in
answer security considerations are deﬁned in
apply to implementations of this document.

[RFC3264]

[RFC8445]

, and the generic SDP oﬀer/
. These security considerations also

9.1.  IP Address Privacy

In some cases, e.g., for privacy reasons, an agent may not want to reveal the related address and
port. In this case the address
candidates) and the port to '9'.

 be set to "0.0.0.0" (for IPv4 candidates) or "::" (for IPv6

MUST

9.2.  Attacks on the Oﬀer/Answer Exchanges

An attacker that can modify or disrupt the oﬀer/answer exchanges themselves can readily
launch a variety of attacks with ICE. They could direct media to a target of a DoS attack, they
could insert themselves into the data stream, and so on. These are similar to the general security
considerations for oﬀer/answer exchanges, and the security considerations in
These require techniques for message integrity and encryption for oﬀers and answers, which are
 when SIP is used. As such, the usage of TLS with ICE is
satisﬁed by the TLS mechanism
.
RECOMMENDED

[RFC3264]

[RFC3261]

 apply.

9.3.  The Voice Hammer Attack

The voice hammer attack is an ampliﬁcation attack, and can be triggered even if the attacker is
an authenticated and valid participant in a session. In this attack, the attacker initiates sessions
to other agents, and maliciously includes the connection address and port of a DoS target as the
destination for media traﬃc signaled in the SDP. This causes substantial ampliﬁcation; a single
oﬀer/answer exchange can create a continuing ﬂood of media packets, possibly at high rates
(consider video sources). The use of ICE can help to prevent against this attack.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

Speciﬁcally, if ICE is used, the agent receiving the malicious SDP will ﬁrst perform connectivity
checks to the target of media before sending media there. If this target is a third-party host, the
checks will not succeed, and media is never sent. The ICE extension deﬁned in
 can be
used to further protect against voice hammer attacks.

[RFC7675]

Unfortunately, ICE doesn't help if it's not used, in which case an attacker could simply send the
oﬀer without the ICE parameters. However, in environments where the set of clients is known,
and is limited to ones that support ICE, the server can reject any oﬀers or answers that don't
indicate ICE support.

[RFC3261]

SIP user agents (UA)
"ice" option tag
oﬀers will generally use a 421 response code, together with an option tag "ice" in the Require
header ﬁeld in the response.

 include an
 in the SIP Require header ﬁeld in their oﬀer. UAs that reject non-ICE

 that are not willing to receive non-ICE answers

[RFC5768]

MUST

10.  IANA Considerations

10.1.  SDP Attributes

The original ICE speciﬁcation deﬁned seven new SDP attributes per the procedures of
8.2.4 of [RFC4566]
with modiﬁcations to include Mux Category
pacing".

. The registration information from the original speciﬁcation is included here

 and also deﬁnes a new SDP attribute "ice-

[RFC8859]

Section

10.1.1.  "candidate" Attribute

Attribute Name:

candidate

Type of Attribute:

media-level

Subject to charset:

No

Purpose:

This attribute is used with Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE), and provides
one of many possible candidate addresses for communication. These addresses are validated
with an end-to-end connectivity check using Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN).

Appropriate Values:

See Section 5 of RFC 8839.

Contact Name:

IESG

Contact Email:

iesg@ietf.org

Reference:

RFC 8839

Mux Category:

TRANSPORT

10.1.2.  "remote-candidates" Attribute

Attribute Name:

remote-candidates

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

Type of Attribute:

media-level

Subject to charset:

No

Purpose:

This attribute is used with Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE), and provides

the identity of the remote candidates that the oﬀerer wishes the answerer to use in its
answer.

Appropriate Values:

See Section 5 of RFC 8839.

Contact Name:

IESG

Contact Email:

iesg@ietf.org

Reference:

RFC 8839

Mux Category:

TRANSPORT

10.1.3.  "ice-lite" Attribute

Attribute Name:

ice-lite

Type of Attribute:

session-level

Subject to charset:

No

Purpose:

This attribute is used with Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE), and indicates

that an agent has the minimum functionality required to support ICE inter-operation with a
peer that has a full implementation.

Appropriate Values:

See Section 5 of RFC 8839.

Contact Name:

IESG

Contact Email:

iesg@ietf.org

Reference:

RFC 8839

Mux Category:

NORMAL

10.1.4.  "ice-mismatch" Attribute

Attribute Name:

ice-mismatch

Type of Attribute:

media-level

Subject to charset:

No

Purpose:

This attribute is used with Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE), and indicates

that an agent is ICE capable, but did not proceed with ICE due to a mismatch of candidates
with the default destination for media signaled in the SDP.

Appropriate Values:

See Section 5 of RFC 8839.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

Contact Name:

IESG

Contact e-mail:

iesg@ietf.org

Reference:

RFC 8839

Mux Category:

NORMAL

10.1.5.  "ice-pwd" Attribute

Attribute Name:

ice-pwd

Type of Attribute:

session- or media-level

Subject to charset:

No

Purpose:

This attribute is used with Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE), and provides

the password used to protect STUN connectivity checks.

Appropriate Values:

See Section 5 of RFC 8839.

Contact Name:

IESG

Contact e-mail:

iesg@ietf.org

Reference:

RFC 8839

Mux Category:

TRANSPORT

10.1.6.  "ice-ufrag" Attribute

Attribute Name:

ice-ufrag

Type of Attribute:

session- or media-level

Subject to charset:

No

Purpose:

This attribute is used with Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE), and provides

the fragments used to construct the username in STUN connectivity checks.

Appropriate Values:

See Section 5 of RFC 8839.

Contact Name:

IESG

Contact e-mail:

iesg@ietf.org

Reference:

RFC 8839

Mux Category:

TRANSPORT

10.1.7.  "ice-options" Attribute

Attribute Name:

ice-options

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

Long Form:

ice-options

Type of Attribute:

session-level

Subject to charset:

No

Purpose:

This attribute is used with Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE), and indicates

the ICE options or extensions used by the agent.

Appropriate Values:

See Section 5 of RFC 8839.

Contact Name:

IESG

Contact e-mail:

iesg@ietf.org

Reference:

RFC 8839

Mux Category:

NORMAL

10.1.8.  "ice-pacing" Attribute

This speciﬁcation also deﬁnes a new SDP attribute, "ice-pacing", according to the following data:

Attribute Name:

ice-pacing

Type of Attribute:

session-level

Subject to charset:

No

Purpose:

This attribute is used with Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) to indicate

desired connectivity check pacing values.

Appropriate Values:

See Section 5 of RFC 8839.

Contact Name:

IESG

Contact e-mail:

iesg@ietf.org

Reference:

RFC 8839

Mux Category:

NORMAL

10.2.  Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) Options Registry

IANA maintains a registry for "ice-options" identiﬁers under the Speciﬁcation Required policy as
deﬁned in "Guidelines for Writing an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs"

[RFC8126]

.

ICE options are of unlimited length according to the syntax in Section 5.6; however, they are
RECOMMENDED
eﬃcient parsing. ICE options are deﬁned at the session level.

 to be no longer than 20 characters. This is to reduce message sizes and allow for

A registration request

MUST

 include the following information:

•

The ICE option identiﬁer to be registered

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

•

Name and email address of organization or individuals having change control

•

Short description of the ICE extension to which the option relates

•

Reference(s) to the speciﬁcation deﬁning the ICE option and the related extensions

10.3.  Candidate Attribute Extension Subregistry Establishment

This section creates a new subregistry, "Candidate Attribute Extensions", under the SDP
Parameters registry:

http://www.iana.org/assignments/sdp-parameters

.

The purpose of the subregistry is to register SDP "candidate" attribute extensions.

When a "candidate" extension is registered in the subregistry, it needs to meet the "Speciﬁcation
Required" policies deﬁned in

[RFC8126]

.

"candidate" attribute extensions
name
follow the 'extension-att-value' syntax.

MUST

MUST

 follow the 'extension-att-name' syntax, and the attribute extension value

MUST

 follow the 'cand-extension' syntax. The attribute extension

A registration request

MUST

 include the following information:

•

The name of the attribute extension.

•

Name and email address of organization or individuals having change control

•

A short description of the attribute extension.

•

A reference to a speciﬁcation that describes the semantics, usage and possible values of the
attribute extension.

11.  Changes from RFC 5245

 describes the changes made to the common SIP procedures, including removal of

[RFC8445]
aggressive nomination, modifying the procedures for calculating candidate pair states,
scheduling connectivity checks, and the calculation of timer values.

This document deﬁnes the following SDP oﬀer/answer speciﬁc changes:

•

SDP oﬀer/answer realization and usage of 'ice2' option.

•

Deﬁnition and usage of SDP "ice-pacing" attribute.

•

Explicit text that an ICE agent must not generate candidates with FQDNs, and must discard
such candidates if received from the peer agent.

•

Relax requirement to include SDP "rtcp" attribute.

•

Generic clariﬁcations of SDP oﬀer/answer procedures.

•

ICE mismatch is now optional, and an agent has an option to not trigger mismatch and
instead treat the default candidate as an additional candidate.

•

FQDNs and "0.0.0.0"/"::" IP addresses with port "9" default candidates do not trigger ICE
mismatch.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3261]

[RFC3262]

[RFC3264]

[RFC3312]

[RFC3556]

[RFC3605]

[RFC4032]

[RFC4566]

[RFC5234]

[RFC5389]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R.,
Handley, M., and E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
10.17487/RFC3261

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
, June 2002,

,
.

,

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "Reliability of Provisional Responses in
,
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3262 DOI 10.17487/RFC3262
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3262>

,

.

, June 2002,

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

.

,

,

,

Camarillo, G., Ed., Marshall, W., Ed., and J. Rosenberg "Integration of Resource
Management and Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3312 DOI 10.17487/
RFC3312

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3312>

, October 2002,

,

,

.

,

,

Casner, S. "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Bandwidth Modiﬁers for RTP
Control Protocol (RTCP) Bandwidth" RFC 3556 DOI 10.17487/RFC3556
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3556>

,

,

.

, July 2003,

,

Huitema, C. "Real Time Control Protocol (RTCP) attribute in Session Description
,
Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3605 DOI 10.17487/RFC3605
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3605>

, October 2003,

<https://

,

.

Camarillo, G. and P. Kyzivat "Update to the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
, March 2005,
,
Preconditions Framework" RFC 4032 DOI 10.17487/RFC4032
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4032>

,
,

.

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

Rosenberg, J., Mahy, R., Matthews, P., and D. Wing "Session Traversal Utilities for
,
NAT (STUN)" RFC 5389 DOI 10.17487/RFC5389
.
editor.org/info/rfc5389>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2008,

,

,

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

[RFC5766]

[RFC5768]

[RFC6336]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8445]

Mahy, R., Matthews, P., and J. Rosenberg "Traversal Using Relays around NAT
(TURN): Relay Extensions to Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN)" RFC
5766 DOI 10.17487/RFC5766
,
rfc5766>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, April 2010,

,

,

.

,

Rosenberg, J. "Indicating Support for Interactive Connectivity Establishment
(ICE) in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 5768 DOI 10.17487/RFC5768
April 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5768>

,

,

.

,

Westerlund, M. and C. Perkins "IANA Registry for Interactive Connectivity
,
Establishment (ICE) Options" RFC 6336 DOI 10.17487/RFC6336
, July 2011,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6336>

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

12.2.  Informative References

[RFC3725]

[RFC3960]

[RFC5245]

[RFC5626]

[RFC5898]

[RFC6679]

Rosenberg, J., Peterson, J., Schulzrinne, H., and G. Camarillo "Best Current
Practices for Third Party Call Control (3pcc) in the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP)" BCP 85 RFC 3725 DOI 10.17487/RFC3725
<https://www.rfc-
,
.
editor.org/info/rfc3725>

, April 2004,

,

,

,

Camarillo, G. and H. Schulzrinne "Early Media and Ringing Tone Generation in
the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3960 DOI 10.17487/RFC3960
December 2004,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3960>

,

,

.

,

,

Rosenberg, J. "Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for
,
Network Address Translator (NAT) Traversal for Oﬀer/Answer Protocols" RFC
,
5245 DOI 10.17487/RFC5245
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc5245>

, April 2010,

.

Jennings, C., Ed., Mahy, R., Ed., and F. Audet, Ed. "Managing Client-Initiated
Connections in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 5626 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5626

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5626>

, October 2009,

,

,

.

,

Andreasen, F., Camarillo, G., Oran, D., and D. Wing "Connectivity Preconditions
for Session Description Protocol (SDP) Media Streams" RFC 5898 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5898>
RFC5898

, July 2010,

,

,

.

,

Westerlund, M., Johansson, I., Perkins, C., O'Hanlon, P., and K. Carlberg "Explicit
Congestion Notiﬁcation (ECN) for RTP over UDP" RFC 6679 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6679

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6679>

, August 2012,

,

,

.

,

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

[RFC7675]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8859]

[RFC8863]

Perumal, M., Wing, D., Ravindranath, R., Reddy, T., and M. Thomson "Session
Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) Usage for Consent Freshness" RFC 7675 DOI
10.17487/RFC7675

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7675>
.

, October 2015,

,

,

Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

,

Nandakumar, S. "A Framework for Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
,
Attributes When Multiplexing" RFC 8859 DOI 10.17487/RFC8859
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8859>

, January 2021,

Holmberg, C. and J. Uberti "Interactive Connectivity Establishment Patiently
, January
,
Awaiting Connectivity (ICE PAC)" RFC 8863 DOI 10.17487/RFC8863
2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8863>

.

,

,

Appendix A.  Examples

For the example shown in
looks like (lines folded for clarity):

Section 15 of [RFC8445]

, the resulting oﬀer (message 5) encoded in SDP

v=0
o=jdoe 2890844526 2890842807 IN IP6 $L-PRIV-1.IP
s=
c=IN IP6 $NAT-PUB-1.IP
t=0 0
a=ice-options:ice2
a=ice-pacing:50
a=ice-pwd:asd88fgpdd777uzjYhagZg
a=ice-ufrag:8hhY
m=audio $NAT-PUB-1.PORT RTP/AVP 0
b=RS:0
b=RR:0
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706431 $L-PRIV-1.IP $L-PRIV-1.PORT typ host
a=candidate:2 1 UDP 1694498815 $NAT-PUB-1.IP $NAT-PUB-1.PORT typ
 srflx raddr $L-PRIV-1.IP rport $L-PRIV-1.PORT

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

The oﬀer, with the variables replaced with their values, will look like (lines folded for clarity):

v=0
o=jdoe 2890844526 2890842807 IN IP6 fe80::6676:baff:fe9c:ee4a
s=
c=IN IP6 2001:db8:8101:3a55:4858:a2a9:22ff:99b9
t=0 0
a=ice-options:ice2
a=ice-pacing:50
a=ice-pwd:asd88fgpdd777uzjYhagZg
a=ice-ufrag:8hhY
m=audio 45664 RTP/AVP 0
b=RS:0
b=RR:0
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706431 fe80::6676:baff:fe9c:ee4a 8998
 typ host
a=candidate:2 1 UDP 1694498815 2001:db8:8101:3a55:4858:a2a9:22ff:99b9
 45664 typ srflx raddr fe80::6676:baff:fe9c:ee4a rport 8998

The resulting answer looks like:

v=0
o=bob 2808844564 2808844564 IN IP4 $R-PUB-1.IP
s=
c=IN IP4 $R-PUB-1.IP
t=0 0
a=ice-options:ice2
a=ice-pacing:50
a=ice-pwd:YH75Fviy6338Vbrhrlp8Yh
a=ice-ufrag:9uB6
m=audio $R-PUB-1.PORT RTP/AVP 0
b=RS:0
b=RR:0
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706431 $R-PUB-1.IP $R-PUB-1.PORT typ host

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

With the variables ﬁlled in:

v=0
o=bob 2808844564 2808844564 IN IP4 192.0.2.1
s=
c=IN IP4 192.0.2.1
t=0 0
a=ice-options:ice2
a=ice-pacing:50
a=ice-pwd:YH75Fviy6338Vbrhrlp8Yh
a=ice-ufrag:9uB6
m=audio 3478 RTP/AVP 0
b=RS:0
b=RR:0
a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706431 192.0.2.1 3478 typ host

Appendix B.  The "remote-candidates" Attribute

The "remote-candidates" attribute exists to eliminate a race condition between the updated oﬀer
and the response to the STUN Binding request that moved a candidate into the valid list. This
race condition is shown in Figure 1. On receipt of message 4, agent L adds a candidate pair to the
valid list. If there was only a single data stream with a single component, agent L could now send
an updated oﬀer. However, the check from agent R has not yet received a response, and agent R
receives the updated oﬀer (message 7) before getting the response (message 9). Thus, it does not
yet know that this particular pair is valid. To eliminate this condition, the actual candidates at R
that were selected by the oﬀerer (the remote candidates) are included in the oﬀer itself, and the
answerer delays its answer until those pairs validate.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

Agent L               Network               Agent R
   |(1) Offer            |                     |
   |------------------------------------------>|
   |(2) Answer           |                     |
   |<------------------------------------------|
   |(3) STUN Req.        |                     |
   |------------------------------------------>|
   |(4) STUN Res.        |                     |
   |<------------------------------------------|
   |(5) STUN Req.        |                     |
   |<------------------------------------------|
   |(6) STUN Res.        |                     |
   |-------------------->|                     |
   |                     |Lost                 |
   |(7) Offer            |                     |
   |------------------------------------------>|
   |(8) STUN Req.        |                     |
   |<------------------------------------------|
   |(9) STUN Res.        |                     |
   |------------------------------------------>|
   |(10) Answer          |                     |
   |<------------------------------------------|

Figure 1: Race Condition Flow

Appendix C.  Why Is the Conﬂict Resolution Mechanism
Needed?

When ICE runs between two peers, one agent acts as controlled, and the other as controlling.
Rules are deﬁned as a function of implementation type and oﬀerer/answerer to determine who
is controlling and who is controlled. However, the speciﬁcation mentions that, in some cases,
both sides might believe they are controlling, or both sides might believe they are controlled.
How can this happen?

The condition when both agents believe they are controlled shows up in third party call control
cases. Consider the following ﬂow:

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

          A         Controller          B
          |(1) INV()     |              |
          |<-------------|              |
          |(2) 200(SDP1) |              |
          |------------->|              |
          |              |(3) INV()     |
          |              |------------->|
          |              |(4) 200(SDP2) |
          |              |<-------------|
          |(5) ACK(SDP2) |              |
          |<-------------|              |
          |              |(6) ACK(SDP1) |
          |              |------------->|

Figure 2: Role Conﬂict Flow

[RFC3725]

This ﬂow is a variation on ﬂow III of RFC 3725
since it produces fewer messages. In this ﬂow, the controller sends an oﬀerless INVITE to agent A,
which responds with its oﬀer, SDP1. The agent then sends an oﬀerless INVITE to agent B, which it
responds to with its oﬀer, SDP2. The controller then uses the oﬀer from each agent to generate
the answers. When this ﬂow is used, ICE will run between agents A and B, but both will believe
they are in the controlling role. With the role conﬂict resolution procedures, this ﬂow will
function properly when ICE is used.

. In fact, it works better than ﬂow III

At this time, there are no documented ﬂows that can result in the case where both agents believe
they are controlled. However, the conﬂict resolution procedures allow for this case, should a ﬂow
arise that would ﬁt into this category.

Appendix D.  Why Send an Updated Oﬀer?

 describes rules for sending media. Both agents can send media once

Section 12.1 of [RFC8445]
ICE checks complete, without waiting for an updated oﬀer. Indeed, the only purpose of the
updated oﬀer is to "correct" the SDP so that the default destination for media matches where
media is being sent based on ICE procedures (which will be the highest-priority nominated
candidate pair).

This raises the question -- why is the updated oﬀer/answer exchange needed at all? Indeed, in a
pure oﬀer/answer environment, it would not be. The oﬀerer and answerer will agree on the
candidates to use through ICE, and then can begin using them. As far as the agents themselves
are concerned, the updated oﬀer/answer provides no new information. However, in practice,
numerous components along the signaling path look at the SDP information. These include
entities performing oﬀ-path QoS reservations, NAT traversal components such as ALGs and
Session Border Controllers (SBCs), and diagnostic tools that passively monitor the network. For
these tools to continue to function without change, the core property of SDP -- that the existing,
pre-ICE deﬁnitions of the addresses used for media -- the "m=" and "c=" lines and the "rtcp"
attribute -- must be retained. For this reason, an updated oﬀer must be sent.

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

Acknowledgements

A large part of the text in this document was taken from
Rosenberg
.

[RFC5245]

, authored by

Jonathan

Some of the text in this document was taken from
and

.
Colin Perkins

[RFC6336]

, authored by

Magnus Westerlund

Many thanks to

Flemming Andreasen

 for shepherd review feedback.

Thanks to following experts for their reviews and constructive feedback:
Roach Peter Saint-Andre Roman Danyliw Alissa Cooper Benjamin Kaduk Mirja Kühlewind
 for their detailed reviews.
Alexey Melnikov

Thomas Stach Adam
,

Éric Vyncke

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

Contributors

The following experts have contributed textual and structural improvements for this work:

Thomas Stach
Email:

 thomass.stach@gmail.com

Authors' Addresses

Marc Petit-Huguenin
Impedance Mismatch
Email:

 marc@petit-huguenin.org

Suhas Nandakumar
Cisco Systems
707 Tasman Dr
Milpitas CA 95035
,
United States of America
Email:

 snandaku@cisco.com

Christer Holmberg
Ericsson
Hirsalantie 11
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 christer.holmberg@ericsson.com

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 8839

ICE SDP Usage

January 2021

Ari Keränen
Ericsson
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 ari.keranen@ericsson.com

Roman Shpount
TurboBridge
4905 Del Ray Avenue, Suite 300
Bethesda MD 20814
,
United States of America
Email:

 rshpount@turbobridge.com

Petit-Huguenin, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

