Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8871
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
P. Jones
Cisco

D. Benham
Independent

C. Groves
Independent

RFC 8871
A Solution Framework for Private Media in Privacy-
Enhanced RTP Conferencing (PERC)

Abstract

This document describes a solution framework for ensuring that media conﬁdentiality and
integrity are maintained end to end within the context of a switched conferencing environment
where Media Distributors are not trusted with the end-to-end media encryption keys. The
solution builds upon existing security mechanisms deﬁned for the Real-time Transport Protocol
(RTP).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8871

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  PERC Entities and Trust Model

3.1.  Untrusted Entities

3.1.1.  Media Distributor

3.1.2.  Call Processing

3.2.  Trusted Entities

3.2.1.  Endpoint

3.2.2.  Key Distributor

4.  Framework for PERC

4.1.  E2E-Authenticated and HBH-Authenticated Encryption

4.2.  E2E Key Conﬁdentiality

4.3.  E2E Keys and Endpoint Operations

4.4.  HBH Keys and Per-Hop Operations

4.5.  Key Exchange

4.5.1.  Initial Key Exchange and Key Distributor

4.5.2.  Key Exchange during a Conference

5.  Authentication

5.1.  Identity Assertions

5.2.  Certiﬁcate Fingerprints in Session Signaling

5.3.  Conference Identiﬁcation

6.  PERC Keys

6.1.  Key Inventory and Management Considerations

6.2.  DTLS-SRTP Exchange Yields HBH Keys

6.3.  The Key Distributor Transmits the KEK (EKT Key)

6.4.  Endpoints Fabricate an SRTP Master Key

6.5.  Summary of Key Types and Entity Possession

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

7.  Encrypted Media Packet Format

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Third-Party Attacks

8.2.  Media Distributor Attacks

8.2.1.  Denial of Service

8.2.2.  Replay Attacks

8.2.3.  Delayed Playout Attacks

8.2.4.  Splicing Attacks

8.2.5.  RTCP Attacks

8.3.  Key Distributor Attacks

8.4.  Endpoint Attacks

9.  IANA Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Switched conferencing is an increasingly popular model for multimedia conferences with
multiple participants using a combination of audio, video, text, and other media types. With this
model, real-time media ﬂows from conference participants are not mixed, transcoded,
translated, recomposed, or otherwise manipulated by a Media Distributor, as might be the case
with a traditional media server or Multipoint Control Unit (MCU). Instead, media ﬂows
transmitted by conference participants are simply forwarded by Media Distributors to each of
the other participants. Media Distributors often forward only a subset of ﬂows based on voice
activity detection or other criteria. In some instances, Media Distributors may make limited
modiﬁcations to RTP headers
video data) is unaltered.

, for example, but the actual media content (e.g., voice or

[RFC3550]

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

An advantage of switched conferencing is that Media Distributors can be more easily deployed
on general-purpose computing hardware, including virtualized environments in private and
public clouds. Virtualized public cloud environments have been viewed as less secure, since
resources are not always physically controlled by those who use them. This document deﬁnes
improved security so as to lower the barrier to taking advantage of those environments.

This document deﬁnes a solution framework wherein media privacy is ensured by making it
impossible for a Media Distributor to gain access to keys needed to decrypt or authenticate the
actual media content sent between conference participants. At the same time, the framework
allows for the Media Distributors to modify certain RTP headers; add, remove, encrypt, or
decrypt RTP header extensions; and encrypt and decrypt RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) packets
[RFC3550]
. The framework also prevents replay attacks by authenticating each packet
transmitted between a given participant and the Media Distributor using a unique key per
endpoint that is independent from the key for media encryption and authentication.

This solution framework provides for enhanced privacy in RTP-based conferencing
environments while utilizing existing security procedures deﬁned for RTP with minimal
enhancements.

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Additionally, this solution framework uses the following terms and abbreviations:

End-to-End (E2E):

Communications from one endpoint through one or more Media Distributors

to the endpoint at the other end.

Hop-by-Hop (HBH):

Communications between an endpoint and a Media Distributor or between

Media Distributors.

Trusted Endpoint (or simply endpoint):

An RTP ﬂow-terminating entity that has possession of

E2E media encryption keys and terminates E2E encryption. This may include embedded user
conferencing equipment or browsers on computers, media gateways, MCUs, media recording
devices, and more, that are in the trusted domain for a given deployment. In the context of
WebRTC
application and a browser, the browser acts as the Trusted Endpoint for purposes of this
 in one-to-one calls).
framework (just as it acts as the endpoint for DTLS-SRTP

, where control of a session is divided between a JavaScript

[W3C.CR-webrtc]

[RFC5764]

Media Distributor (MD):

An RTP middlebox that forwards endpoint media content (e.g., voice or

video data) unaltered -- either a subset or all of the ﬂows at any given time -- and is never
allowed to have access to E2E encryption keys. It operates according to the Selective
Forwarding Middlebox RTP topologies
[RFC7667]
Media in Privacy-Enhanced RTP Conferencing (PERC) system, which includes, but is not

 per the constraints deﬁned by the Private

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

limited to, having no access to RTP media plaintext and having limits on what RTP header
ﬁelds it can alter. The header ﬁelds that may be modiﬁed by a Media Distributor are
enumerated in
chosen with respect to utility and the security considerations outlined in this document.

Section 4 of the double cryptographic transform speciﬁcation [RFC8723]

 and

Key Distributor:

An entity that is a logical function that distributes keying material and related

information to Trusted Endpoints and Media Distributor(s) -- only what is appropriate for
each. The Key Distributor might be co-resident with another entity trusted with E2E keying
material.

Conference:

Two or more participants communicating via Trusted Endpoints to exchange RTP

ﬂows through one or more Media Distributors.

Call Processing:

All Trusted Endpoints connect to a conference via a call processing dialog, e.g.,

with the "focus" as deﬁned in
Protocol (SIP)" [RFC4353]

.

"A Framework for Conferencing with the Session Initiation

Third Party:

Any entity that is not an endpoint, Media Distributor, Key Distributor, or call

processing entity as described in this document.

3.  PERC Entities and Trust Model

Figure 1 depicts the trust relationships, direct or indirect, between entities described in the
subsequent subsections. Note that these entities may be co-located or further divided into
multiple, separate physical devices.

Please note that some entities classiﬁed as untrusted in the simple, general deployment scenario
used most commonly in this document might be considered trusted in other deployments. This
document does not preclude such scenarios, but it keeps the deﬁnitions and examples focused by
only using the simple, most general deployment scenario.

                       |
   +----------+        |        +-----------------+
   | Endpoint |        |        | Call Processing |
   +----------+        |        +-----------------+
                       |
                       |
+----------------+     |       +--------------------+
| Key Distributor|     |       | Media Distributor  |
+----------------+     |       +--------------------+
                       |
     Trusted           |             Untrusted
     Entities          |             Entities
                       |

Figure 1: Trusted and Untrusted Entities in PERC

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

3.1.  Untrusted Entities

The architecture described in this framework document enables conferencing infrastructure to
be hosted in domains, such as in a cloud conferencing provider's facilities, where the
trustworthiness is below the level needed to assume that the privacy of the participant's media is
not compromised. The conferencing infrastructure in such a domain is still trusted with reliably
connecting the participants together in a conference but is not trusted with keying material
needed to decrypt any of the participant's media. Entities in such less-trustworthy domains are
referred to as untrusted entities from this point forward.

It is important to understand that "untrusted" in this document does not mean that an entity is
not expected to function properly. Rather, it means only that the entity does not have access to
the E2E media encryption keys.

3.1.1.  Media Distributor

A Media Distributor forwards RTP ﬂows between endpoints in the conference while performing
per-hop authentication of each RTP packet. The Media Distributor may need access to one or
more RTP headers or header extensions, potentially adding or modifying a certain subset. The
Media Distributor also relays secured messaging between the endpoints and the Key Distributor
and acquires per-hop key information from the Key Distributor. The actual media content must
not be decryptable by a Media Distributor, as it is not trusted to have access to the E2E media
encryption keys. The key exchange mechanisms speciﬁed in this framework prevent the Media
Distributor from gaining access to the E2E media encryption keys.

An endpoint's ability to connect to a conference serviced by a Media Distributor implies that the
endpoint is authorized to have access to the E2E media encryption keys, although the Media
Distributor does not have the ability to determine whether an endpoint is authorized. Instead,
the Key Distributor is responsible for authenticating the endpoint (e.g., using WebRTC identity
assertions
encryption keys.

) and determining its authorization to receive E2E and HBH media

[RFC8827]

A Media Distributor must perform its role in properly forwarding media packets while taking
measures to mitigate the adverse eﬀects of denial-of-service attacks (refer to Section 8) to a level
equal to or better than traditional conferencing (non-PERC) deployments.

A Media Distributor or associated conferencing infrastructure may also initiate or terminate
various messaging techniques related to conference control. This topic is outside the scope of this
framework document.

3.1.2.  Call Processing

Call processing is untrusted in the simple, general deployment scenario. When a physical subset
of call processing resides in facilities outside the trusted domain, it should not be trusted to have
access to E2E key information.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

Call processing may include the processing of call signaling messages, as well as the signing of
those messages. It may also authenticate the endpoints for the purpose of call signaling and of
subsequently joining a conference hosted through one or more Media Distributors. Call
processing may optionally ensure the privacy of call signaling messages between itself (call
processing), the endpoint, and other entities.

3.2.  Trusted Entities

From the PERC model system's perspective, entities considered trusted (refer to Figure 1) can be
in possession of the E2E media encryption keys for one or more conferences.

3.2.1.  Endpoint

An endpoint is considered trusted and has access to E2E key information. While it is possible for
an endpoint to be compromised, subsequently performing in undesired ways, deﬁning endpoint
resistance to compromise is outside the scope of this document. Endpoints take measures to
mitigate the adverse eﬀects of denial-of-service attacks (refer to Section 8) from other entities,
including from other endpoints, to a level equal to or better than traditional conference (non-
PERC) deployments.

3.2.2.  Key Distributor

The Key Distributor, which may be co-located with an endpoint or exist standalone, is
responsible for providing key information to endpoints for both E2E and HBH security and for
providing key information to Media Distributors for HBH security.

Interaction between the Key Distributor and call processing is necessary for proper conference-
to-endpoint mappings. This is described in Section 5.3.

The Key Distributor needs to be secured and managed in a way that prevents exploitation by an
adversary, as any kind of compromise of the Key Distributor puts the security of the conference
at risk.

The Key Distributor needs to know which endpoints and which Media Distributors are
authorized to participate in the conference. How the Key Distributor obtains this information is
outside the scope of this document. However, Key Distributors
with any unauthorized endpoint or Media Distributor.

 reject DTLS associations

MUST

4.  Framework for PERC

The purpose of this framework is to deﬁne a means through which media privacy is ensured
when communicating within a conferencing environment consisting of one or more Media
Distributors that only switch, and hence do not terminate, media. It does not otherwise attempt
to hide the fact that a conference between endpoints is taking place.

This framework reuses several speciﬁed RTP security technologies, including the Secure Real-
time Transport Protocol (SRTP)
SRTP.

, Encrypted Key Transport (EKT)

[RFC3711]

[RFC8870]

, and DTLS-

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

4.1.  E2E-Authenticated and HBH-Authenticated Encryption

This solution framework focuses on the E2E privacy and integrity of the participant's media by
limiting access to only trusted entities to the E2E key used for authenticated E2E encryption.
However, this framework does give a Media Distributor access to RTP header ﬁelds and header
extensions, as well as the ability to modify a certain subset of the header ﬁelds and to add or
change header extensions. Packets received by a Media Distributor or an endpoint are
authenticated hop by hop.

To enable all of the above, this framework deﬁnes the use of two security contexts and two
associated encryption keys: an "inner" key (a distinct E2E key for each transmitted media ﬂow)
for authenticated encryption of RTP media between endpoints and an "outer" key (a HBH key)
known only to a Media Distributor or the adjacent endpoint for the hop between an endpoint
and a Media Distributor or peer endpoint. An endpoint will receive one or more E2E keys from
every other endpoint in the conference that correspond to the media ﬂows transmitted by those
other endpoints, while HBH keys are derived from the DTLS-SRTP association with the Key
Distributor. Two communicating Media Distributors use DTLS-SRTP associations directly with
each other to obtain the HBH keys they will use. See Section 4.5 for more details on key exchange.

+-------------+                                +-------------+
|             |################################|             |
|    Media    |------------------------ *----->|    Media    |
| Distributor |<----------------------*-|------| Distributor |
|      X      |#####################*#|#|######|      Y      |
|             |                     | | |      |             |
+-------------+                     | | |      +-------------+
   #  ^ |  #          HBH Key (XY) -+ | |         #  ^ |  #
   #  | |  #           E2E Key (B) ---+ |         #  | |  #
   #  | |  #           E2E Key (A) -----+         #  | |  #
   #  | |  #                                      #  | |  #
   #  | |  #                                      #  | |  #
   #  | |  *---- HBH Key (AX)    HBH Key (YB) ----*  | |  #
   #  | |  #                                      #  | |  #
   #  *--------- E2E Key (A)      E2E Key (A) ---------*  #
   #  | *------- E2E Key (B)      E2E Key (B) -------* |  #
   #  | |  #                                      #  | |  #
   #  | v  #                                      #  | v  #
+-------------+                                +-------------+
| Endpoint A  |                                | Endpoint B  |
+-------------+                                +-------------+

Figure 2: E2E and HBH Keys Used for Authenticated Encryption of SRTP Packets

[RFC8723]

 enables endpoints to perform encryption using both the E2E

The double transform
and HBH contexts while still preserving the same overall interface as other SRTP transforms. The
Media Distributor simply uses the corresponding normal (single) AES-GCM transform, keyed
with the appropriate HBH keys. See Section 6.1 for a description of the keys used in PERC and
Section 7 for a diagram of how encrypted RTP packets appear on the wire.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

RTCP is only encrypted hop by hop -- not end to end. This framework does not provide an
additional step for RTCP-authenticated encryption. Rather, implementations utilize the existing
procedures speciﬁed in
context chosen in the double transform operation described above. For this reason, endpoints
MUST NOT

; those procedures use the same outer, HBH cryptographic

 send conﬁdential information via RTCP.

[RFC3711]

4.2.  E2E Key Conﬁdentiality

To ensure the conﬁdentiality of E2E keys shared between endpoints, endpoints use a common
Key Encryption Key (KEK) that is known only by the trusted entities in a conference. That KEK,
deﬁned in the EKT speciﬁcation
 as the EKT Key, is used to subsequently encrypt the
SRTP master key used for E2E-authenticated encryption of media sent by a given endpoint. Each
endpoint in the conference creates an SRTP master key for E2E-authenticated encryption and
keeps track of the E2E keys received via the Full EKT Tag for each distinct synchronization source
(SSRC) in the conference so that it can properly decrypt received media. An endpoint may change
its E2E key at any time and advertise that new key to the conference as speciﬁed in

.
[RFC8870]

[RFC8870]

4.3.  E2E Keys and Endpoint Operations

Any given RTP media ﬂow is identiﬁed by its SSRC, and an endpoint might send more than one at
a time and change the mix of media ﬂows transmitted during the lifetime of a conference.

Thus, an endpoint
associated E2E key information. An endpoint
leaves the conference.

MUST

 maintain a list of SSRCs from received RTP ﬂows and each SSRC's

MUST

 discard old E2E keys no later than when it

If the packet is to contain RTP header extensions, it should be noted that those extensions are
only encrypted hop by hop per
conﬁdential information via RTP header extensions.

. For this reason, endpoints

[RFC8723]

MUST NOT

 transmit

4.4.  HBH Keys and Per-Hop Operations

To ensure the integrity of transmitted media packets, it is
authenticated hop by hop between an endpoint and a Media Distributor, as well as between
Media Distributors. The authentication key used for HBH authentication is derived from an SRTP
master key shared only on the respective hop. Each HBH key is distinct per hop, and no two hops
ever use the same SRTP master key.

 that every packet be

REQUIRED

While endpoints also perform HBH authentication, the ability of the endpoints to reconstruct the
original RTP header also enables the endpoints to authenticate RTP packets end to end. This
design yields ﬂexibility to the Media Distributor to change certain RTP header values as packets
are forwarded. Values that the Media Distributor can change in the RTP header are deﬁned in
[RFC8723]
(1) forward RTCP content unchanged, (2) transmit compound RTCP packets, (3) initiate RTCP
packets for reporting statistics, or (4) convey other information. Performing HBH authentication
for all RTP and RTCP packets also helps provide replay protection (see Section 8). The use of the
replay protection mechanism speciﬁed in

. RTCP can only be encrypted hop by hop, giving the Media Distributor the ﬂexibility to

Section 3.3.2 of [RFC3711]

 at each hop.

REQUIRED

 is

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

If there is a need to encrypt one or more RTP header extensions hop by hop, the endpoint derives
[RFC6904]
an encryption key from the HBH SRTP master key to encrypt header extensions as per
.
This still gives the Media Distributor visibility into header extensions, such as the one used to
determine the audio level
extensions are encrypted, all hops need to decrypt and re-encrypt these encrypted header
extensions. Please refer to Sections 5.1, 5.2, and 5.3 of
header extension encryption and decryption.

 of conference participants. Note that when RTP header

 for procedures to perform RTP

[RFC8723]

[RFC6464]

4.5.  Key Exchange

In brief, the keys used by any given endpoints are determined as follows:

•

The HBH keys that the endpoint uses to send and receive SRTP media are derived from a
DTLS handshake that the endpoint performs with the Key Distributor (following normal
DTLS-SRTP procedures).

•

The E2E key that an endpoint uses to send SRTP media can be either set from the DTLS-SRTP
association with the Key Distributor or chosen by the endpoint. It is then distributed to other
endpoints in a Full EKT Tag, encrypted under an EKT Key provided to the client by the Key
Distributor within the DTLS channel they negotiated. Note that an endpoint
diﬀerent E2E key per media ﬂow, where a media ﬂow is identiﬁed by its SSRC value.

 create a

MAY

•

Each E2E key that an endpoint uses to receive SRTP media is set by receiving a Full EKT Tag
from another endpoint.

•

The HBH keys used between two Media Distributors are derived via DTLS-SRTP procedures
employed directly between them.

4.5.1.  Initial Key Exchange and Key Distributor

[PERC-DTLS]

), making it possible for the Media Distributor to facilitate the

The Media Distributor maintains a tunnel with the Key Distributor (e.g., using the tunnel protocol
deﬁned in
establishment of a secure DTLS association between each endpoint and the Key Distributor as
shown in Figure 3. The DTLS association between endpoints and the Key Distributor enables
each endpoint to generate E2E and HBH keys and receive the KEK. At the same time, the Key
Distributor securely provides the HBH key information to the Media Distributor. The key
information summarized here may include the SRTP master key, the SRTP master salt, and the
negotiated cryptographic transform.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

                          +-----------+
                 KEK info |    Key    | HBH Key info to
             to Endpoints |Distributor| Endpoints & Media Distributor
                          +-----------+
                             # ^ ^ #
                             # | | #--- Tunnel
                             # | | #
+-----------+             +-----------+             +-----------+
| Endpoint  |   DTLS      |   Media   |   DTLS      | Endpoint  |
|    KEK    |<------------|Distributor|------------>|    KEK    |
|  HBH Key  | to Key Dist | HBH Keys  | to Key Dist |  HBH Key  |
+-----------+             +-----------+             +-----------+

Figure 3: Exchanging Key Information between Entities

In addition to the secure tunnel between the Media Distributor and the Key Distributor, there are
two additional types of security associations utilized as a part of the key exchange, as discussed
in the following paragraphs. One is a DTLS-SRTP association between an endpoint and the Key
Distributor (with packets passing through the Media Distributor), and the other is a DTLS-SRTP
association between peer Media Distributors.

Endpoints establish a DTLS-SRTP association over the RTP session with the Media Distributor and
its media ports for the purposes of key information exchange with the Key Distributor. The
Media Distributor does not terminate the DTLS signaling but instead forwards DTLS packets
received from an endpoint on to the Key Distributor (and vice versa) via a tunnel established
between the Media Distributor and the Key Distributor.

When establishing the DTLS association between endpoints and the Key Distributor, the
endpoint
 act as the DTLS server. The
KEK is conveyed by the Key Distributor over the DTLS association to endpoints via procedures
deﬁned in EKT

 act as the DTLS client, and the Key Distributor

 via the EKTKey message.

[RFC8870]

MUST

MUST

The Key Distributor
authenticating the Media Distributor tunneling the DTLS-SRTP packets from the endpoint.

 establish DTLS-SRTP associations with endpoints without ﬁrst

MUST NOT

Note that following DTLS-SRTP procedures for the cipher deﬁned in
generates both E2E and HBH encryption keys and salt values. Endpoints
DTLS-SRTP-generated E2E key for transmission or generate a fresh E2E key. In either case, the
generated SRTP master salt for E2E encryption
the Key Distributor via the EKTKey message. That is because every endpoint in the conference
uses the same SRTP master salt. The endpoint only transmits the SRTP master key (not the salt)
used for E2E encryption to other endpoints in RTP/RTCP packets per

, the endpoint
 either use the

 be replaced with the salt value provided by

[RFC8723]
MUST

.
[RFC8870]

MUST

Media Distributors use DTLS-SRTP directly with a peer Media Distributor to establish the HBH
key for transmitting RTP and RTCP packets to that peer Media Distributor. The Key Distributor
does not facilitate establishing a HBH key for use between Media Distributors.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

4.5.2.  Key Exchange during a Conference

Following the initial key information exchange with the Key Distributor, an endpoint is able to
encrypt media end to end with an E2E key, sending that E2E key to other endpoints encrypted
with the KEK, and is able to encrypt and authenticate RTP packets using a HBH key. This
framework does not allow the Media Distributor to gain access to the KEK information,
preventing it from gaining access to any endpoint's E2E key and subsequently decrypting media.

The KEK may need to change from time to time during the lifetime of a conference, such as when
a new participant joins or leaves a conference. Dictating if, when, or how often a conference is to
be rekeyed is outside the scope of this document, but this framework does accommodate
rekeying during the lifetime of a conference.

MUST

 create a new SRTP master key and prepare to send that key inside a

When a Key Distributor decides to rekey a conference, it transmits a new EKTKey message
containing the new EKT Key to each of the conference participants. Upon receipt of the new EKT
Key, the endpoint
FullEKTField using the new EKT Key as per
endpoints in the conference to receive the new keys, the sender should follow the
recommendations in
prepared to decrypt EKT Tags using the new key. The EKT Security Parameter Index (SPI) ﬁeld is
used to diﬀerentiate between EKT Tags encrypted with the old and new keys.

. On receiving a new EKT Key, endpoints

Section 4.6 of [RFC8870]

Section 4.5 of [RFC8870]

. In order to allow time for all

MUST

 be

After rekeying, an endpoint
time suﬃcient for the purpose of ensuring that it can decrypt late-arriving or out-of-order
packets or packets sent by other endpoints that used the prior keys for a period of time after
rekeying began. An endpoint

 retain old keys until the end of the conference.

 retain prior SRTP master keys and EKT Keys for a period of

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

 follow the procedures in

Endpoints
desired. If new HBH keys are generated, the new keys are also delivered to the Media Distributor
following the procedures deﬁned in

 to renegotiate HBH keys as

 as one possible method.

Section 5.2 of [RFC5764]

[PERC-DTLS]

MAY

At any time, endpoints
generate a new E2E encryption key whenever it receives a new EKT Key. After switching to a new
key, the new key is conveyed to other endpoints in the conference in RTP/RTCP packets per
.
[RFC8870]

 change the E2E encryption key being used. An endpoint

MUST

5.  Authentication

It is important that entities can validate the authenticity of other entities, especially the Key
Distributor and endpoints. Details on this topic are outside the scope of this speciﬁcation, but a
few possibilities are discussed in the following sections. The critical requirements are that (1) an
endpoint can verify that it is connected to the correct Key Distributor for the conference and
(2) the Key Distributor can verify that the endpoint is the correct endpoint for the conference.

Two possible approaches to resolve this situation are identity assertions and certiﬁcate
ﬁngerprints.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

5.1.  Identity Assertions

[RFC8827]

A WebRTC identity assertion
 is used to bind the identity of the user of the endpoint to
the ﬁngerprint of the DTLS-SRTP certiﬁcate used for the call. This certiﬁcate is unique for a given
call and a conference. This certiﬁcate is unique for a given call and a conference, allowing the
Key Distributor to ensure that only authorized users participate in the conference. Similarly, the
Key Distributor can create a WebRTC identity assertion to bind the ﬁngerprint of the unique
certiﬁcate used by the Key Distributor for this conference so that the endpoint can verify that it is
talking to the correct Key Distributor. Such a setup requires an Identity Provider (IdP) trusted by
the endpoints and the Key Distributor.

5.2.  Certiﬁcate Fingerprints in Session Signaling

Entities managing session signaling are generally assumed to be untrusted in the PERC
framework. However, there are some deployment scenarios where parts of the session signaling
may be assumed trustworthy for the purposes of exchanging, in a manner that can be
authenticated, the ﬁngerprint of an entity's certiﬁcate.

[RFC3261]

 and the Session Description Protocol (SDP)

As a concrete example, SIP
be used to convey the ﬁngerprint information per
would send an INVITE message containing SDP for the media session along with the endpoint's
certiﬁcate ﬁngerprint, which can be signed using the procedures described in
 for the
beneﬁt of forwarding the message to other entities by the focus
verify that the ﬁngerprints match the certiﬁcates found in the DTLS-SRTP connections to ﬁnd the
identity of the far end of the DTLS-SRTP connection and verify that it is the authorized entity.

[RFC4566]
. An endpoint's SIP User Agent

[RFC8224]
. Other entities can

[RFC5763]

[RFC4353]

 can

Ultimately, if using session signaling, an endpoint's certiﬁcate ﬁngerprint would need to be
securely mapped to a user and conveyed to the Key Distributor so that it can check that the user
in question is authorized. Similarly, the Key Distributor's certiﬁcate ﬁngerprint can be conveyed
to an endpoint in a manner that can be authenticated as being an authorized Key Distributor for
this conference.

5.3.  Conference Identiﬁcation

The Key Distributor needs to know what endpoints are being added to a given conference. Thus,
the Key Distributor and the Media Distributor need to know endpoint-to-conference mappings,
which are enabled by exchanging a conference-speciﬁc unique identiﬁer as described in
[PERC-
. How this unique identiﬁer is assigned is outside the scope of this document.
DTLS]

6.  PERC Keys

This section describes the various keys employed by PERC.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

6.1.  Key Inventory and Management Considerations

This section summarizes the several diﬀerent keys used in the PERC framework, how they are
generated, and what purpose they serve.

The keys are described in the order in which they would typically be acquired.

The various keys used in PERC are shown in Table 1 below.

Key

Description

HBH Key

SRTP master key used to encrypt media hop by hop.

KEK
(EKT Key)

Key shared by all endpoints and used to encrypt each endpoint's E2E SRTP
master key so receiving endpoints can decrypt media.

E2E Key

SRTP master key used to encrypt media end to end.

Table 1: Key Inventory

While the number of key types is very small, it should be understood that the actual number of
distinct keys can be large as the conference grows in size.

As an example, with 1,000 participants in a conference, there would be at least 1,000 distinct
SRTP master keys, all of which share the same master salt. Each of those keys is passed through
the Key Derivation Function (KDF) as deﬁned in
 to produce the actual encryption and
authentication keys.

[RFC3711]

Complicating key management is the fact that the KEK can change and, when it does, the
endpoints generate new SRTP master keys that are associated with a new EKT SPI. Endpoints
might retain old keys for a period of time to ensure that they can properly decrypt late-arriving
or out-of-order packets, which means that the number of keys held during that period of time
might be substantially higher.

A more detailed explanation of each of the keys follows.

6.2.  DTLS-SRTP Exchange Yields HBH Keys

[RFC8723]

, the endpoint performs a DTLS-SRTP exchange with the Key Distributor

The ﬁrst set of keys acquired are for HBH encryption and decryption. Per the double transform
procedures
and receives a key that is, in fact, "double" the size that is needed. The E2E part is the ﬁrst half of
the key, so the endpoint discards that information when generating its own key. The second half
of the keying material is for HBH operations, so that half of the key (corresponding to the least
signiﬁcant bits) is assigned internally as the HBH key.

The Key Distributor informs the Media Distributor of the HBH key. Speciﬁcally, the Key
Distributor sends the least signiﬁcant bits corresponding to the half of the keying material
determined through DTLS-SRTP with the endpoint to the Media Distributor. A salt value is

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

generated along with the HBH key. The salt is also longer than needed for HBH operations; thus,
only the least signiﬁcant bits of the required length (half of the generated salt material) are sent
to the Media Distributor. One way to transmit this key and salt information is via the tunnel
protocol deﬁned in

.
[PERC-DTLS]

No two endpoints have the same HBH key; thus, the Media Distributor
distinct HBH key (and the corresponding salt) and use it only for the speciﬁed hop.

MUST

 keep track of each

The HBH key is also used for HBH encryption of RTCP. RTCP is not E2E-encrypted in PERC.

6.3.  The Key Distributor Transmits the KEK (EKT Key)

The Key Distributor sends the KEK (the EKT Key per
aforementioned DTLS-SRTP association. This key is known only to the Key Distributor and
endpoints; it is the most important entity to protect, since having knowledge of this key (and the
SRTP master salt transmitted as a part of the same message) allows an entity to decrypt any
media packet in the conference.

) to the endpoint via the

[RFC8870]

Note that the Key Distributor can send any number of EKT Keys to endpoints. This information is
used to rekey the entire conference. Each key is identiﬁed by an SPI value. Endpoints
expect that a conference might be rekeyed when a new participant joins a conference or when a
participant leaves a conference, in order to protect the conﬁdentiality of the conversation before
and after such events.

MUST

The SRTP master salt to be used by the endpoint is transmitted along with the EKT Key. All
endpoints in the conference utilize the same SRTP master salt that corresponds with a given EKT
Key.

The Full EKT Tag in media packets is encrypted using a cipher speciﬁed via the EKTKey message
(e.g., AES Key Wrap with a 128-bit key). This cipher is diﬀerent than the cipher used to protect
media and is only used to encrypt the endpoint's SRTP master key (and other EKT Tag data as per
[RFC8870]

).

The KEK is not given to the Media Distributor.

6.4.  Endpoints Fabricate an SRTP Master Key

As stated earlier, the E2E key determined via DTLS-SRTP
generated E2E SRTP master key. While the DTLS-SRTP-derived SRTP master key can be used
initially, the endpoint might choose to change the SRTP master key periodically and
the SRTP master key as a result of the EKT Key changing.

 be discarded in favor of a locally

MUST

MAY

 change

A locally generated SRTP master key is used along with the master salt transmitted to the
endpoint from the Key Distributor via the EKTKey message to encrypt media end to end.

Since the Media Distributor is not involved in E2E functions, it does not create this key, nor does
it have access to any endpoint's E2E key. Note, too, that even the Key Distributor is unaware of
the locally generated E2E keys used by each endpoint.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

The endpoint transmits its E2E key to other endpoints in the conference by periodically including
it in SRTP packets in a Full EKT Tag. When placed in the Full EKT Tag, it is encrypted using the
EKT Key provided by the Key Distributor. The master salt is not transmitted, though, since all
endpoints receive the same master salt via the EKTKey message from the Key Distributor. The
recommended frequency with which an endpoint transmits its SRTP master key is speciﬁed in
[RFC8870]
.

6.5.  Summary of Key Types and Entity Possession

All endpoints have knowledge of the KEK.

Every HBH key is distinct for a given endpoint; thus, Endpoint A and Endpoint B do not have
knowledge of the other's HBH key. Since HBH keys are derived from a DTLS-SRTP association,
there is at most one HBH key per endpoint. (The only exception is where the DTLS-SRTP
association might be rekeyed per
former key.)

Section 5.2 of [RFC5764]

 and a new key is created to replace the

Each endpoint generates its own E2E key (SRTP master key); thus, there is a distinct E2E key per
endpoint. This key is transmitted (encrypted) via the Full EKT Tag to other endpoints. Endpoints
that receive media from a given transmitting endpoint gain knowledge of the transmitter's E2E
key via the Full EKT Tag.

Table 2 summarizes the various keys and which entity is in possession of a given key.

Key/Entity

Endpoint A MD X MD Y

Endpoint B

KEK (EKT Key)

E2E Key (A and B)

HBH Key (A<=>MD X)

HBH Key (B<=>MD Y)

HBH Key (MD X<=>MD Y)

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Table 2: Key Types and Entity Possession

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

7.  Encrypted Media Packet Format

Figure 4 presents a complete picture of what an encrypted media packet per this framework
looks like when transmitted over the wire. The packet format shown in the ﬁgure is encrypted
using the double cryptographic transform with an EKT Tag appended to the end.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<++
    |V=2|P|X|  CC   |M|     PT      |       sequence number         | IO
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ IO
    |                           timestamp                           | IO
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ IO
    |           synchronization source (SSRC) identifier            | IO
    +=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+ IO
    |            contributing source (CSRC) identifiers             | IO
    |                               ....                            | IO
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<+O
    |                    RTP extension (OPTIONAL) ...               | |O
+>+>+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<+O
O I |                          payload  ...                         | IO
O I |                               +-------------------------------+ IO
O I |                               | RTP padding   | RTP pad count | IO
O +>+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<+O
O | |                    E2E authentication tag                     | |O
O | +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |O
O | |                            OHB ...                            | |O
+>| +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |+
| | |                    HBH authentication tag                     | ||
| | +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ ||
| | |   EKT Tag ...   | R                                             ||
| | +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |                                             ||
| |                     +- Neither encrypted nor authenticated;       ||
| |                        appended after the double transform        ||
| |                        is performed                               ||
| |                                                                   ||
| +- E2E-Encrypted Portion               E2E-Authenticated Portion ---+|
|                                                                      |
+--- HBH-Encrypted Portion               HBH-Authenticated Portion ----+

    I = Inner (E2E) encryption/authentication
    O = Outer (HBH) encryption/authentication

Figure 4: Encrypted Media Packet Format

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Third-Party Attacks

Third-party attacks are attacks attempted by an adversary that is not supposed to have access to
keying material or is otherwise not an authorized participant in the conference.

On-path attacks are mitigated by HBH integrity protection and encryption. The integrity
protection mitigates packet modiﬁcation. Encryption makes selective blocking of packets harder,
but not impossible.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

Oﬀ-path attackers could try connecting to diﬀerent PERC entities to send speciﬁcally crafted
packets with an aim of forcing the receiver to forward or render bogus media packets. Endpoints
and Media Distributors mitigate such an attack by performing HBH authentication and
discarding packets that fail authentication.

Another attack vector is a third party claiming to be a Media Distributor, fooling endpoints into
sending packets to the false Media Distributor instead of the correct one. The deceived sending
endpoints could incorrectly assume that their packets have been delivered to endpoints when
they in fact have not. While this attack is possible, the result is a simple denial of service with no
leakage of conﬁdential information, since the false Media Distributor would not have access to
either HBH or E2E encryption keys.

A third party could cause a denial of service by transmitting many bogus or replayed packets
toward receiving devices and ultimately degrading conference or device performance.
Therefore, implementations might wish to devise mechanisms to safeguard against such
illegitimate packets, such as utilizing rate-limiting or performing basic sanity checks on packets
(e.g., looking at packet length or expected sequence number ranges), before performing
decryption operations that are more expensive.

The use of mutual DTLS authentication (as required by DTLS-SRTP) also helps to prevent a
denial-of-service attack by preventing a false endpoint or false Media Distributor from
successfully participating as a perceived valid media sender that could otherwise carry out an
on-path attack. When mutual authentication fails, a receiving endpoint would know that it could
safely discard media packets received from the endpoint without inspection.

8.2.  Media Distributor Attacks

A malicious or compromised Media Distributor can attack the session in a number of possible
ways, as discussed below.

8.2.1.  Denial of Service

A simple form of attack is discarding received packets that should be forwarded. This solution
framework does not provide any mitigation mechanisms for Media Distributors that fail to
forward media packets.

Another form of attack is modifying received packets before forwarding. With this solution
framework, any modiﬁcation of the E2E-authenticated data results in the receiving endpoint
getting an integrity failure when performing authentication on the received packet.

The Media Distributor can also attempt to perform resource consumption attacks on the
receiving endpoint. One such attack would be to insert random SSRC/CSRC values in any RTP
packet along with a Full EKT Tag.  Since such a message would trigger the receiver to form a new
cryptographic context, the Media Distributor can attempt to consume the receiving endpoint's
resources. While E2E authentication would fail and the cryptographic context would be
destroyed, the key derivation operation would nonetheless consume some computational
resources. While resource consumption attacks cannot be mitigated entirely, rate-limiting
packets might help reduce the impact of such attacks.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

8.2.2.  Replay Attacks

A replay attack is an attack where an already-received packet from a previous point in the RTP
stream is replayed as a new packet. This could, for example, allow a Media Distributor to
transmit a sequence of packets identiﬁed as a user saying "yes", instead of the "no" the user
actually said.

A replay attack is mitigated by the requirement to implement replay protection as described in
Section 3.3.2 of [RFC3711]
conference.

 be provided for the duration of the

. E2E replay protection

MUST

8.2.3.  Delayed Playout Attacks

A delayed playout attack is an attack where media is received and held by a Media Distributor
and then forwarded to endpoints at a later point in time.

This attack is possible even if E2E replay protection is in place. Because the Media Distributor is
allowed to select a subset of streams and not forward the rest to a receiver, such as in forwarding
only the most active speakers, the receiver has to accept gaps in the E2E packet sequence. The
problem here is that a Media Distributor can choose to not deliver a particular stream for a
while.

While the Media Distributor can purposely stop forwarding media ﬂows, it can also select an
arbitrary starting point to resume forwarding those media ﬂows, perhaps forwarding old packets
rather than current packets. As a consequence, what the media source sent can be substantially
delayed at the receiver with the receiver believing that newly arriving packets are delayed only
by transport delay when the packets may actually be minutes or hours old.

While this attack cannot be eliminated entirely, its eﬀectiveness can be reduced by rekeying the
conference periodically, since signiﬁcantly delayed media encrypted with expired keys would
not be decrypted by endpoints.

8.2.4.  Splicing Attacks

A splicing attack is an attack where a Media Distributor receiving multiple media sources splices
one media stream into the other. If the Media Distributor were able to change the SSRC without
the receiver having any method for verifying the original source ID, then the Media Distributor
could ﬁrst deliver stream A and then later forward stream B under the same SSRC that stream A
was previously using. By including the SSRC in the integrity check for each packet -- both HBH
and E2E -- PERC prevents splicing attacks.

8.2.5.  RTCP Attacks

PERC does not provide E2E protection of RTCP messages. This allows a compromised Media
Distributor to impact any message that might be transmitted via RTCP, including media statistics,
picture requests, or loss indication. It is also possible for a compromised Media Distributor to
forge requests, such as requests to the endpoint to send a new picture. Such requests can
consume signiﬁcant bandwidth and impair conference performance.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

8.3.  Key Distributor Attacks

As stated in Section 3.2.2, the Key Distributor needs to be secured, since exploiting the Key Server
can allow an adversary to gain access to the keying material for one or more conferences. Having
access to that keying material would then allow the adversary to decrypt media sent from any
endpoint in the conference.

As a ﬁrst line of defense, the Key Distributor authenticates every security association --
associations with both endpoints and Media Distributors. The Key Distributor knows which
entities are authorized to have access to which keys, and inspection of certiﬁcates will
substantially reduce the risk of providing keys to an adversary.

Both physical and network access to the Key Distributor should be severely restricted. This may
be more diﬃcult to achieve when the Key Distributor is embedded within, for example, an
endpoint. Nonetheless, consideration should be given to shielding the Key Distributor from
unauthorized access or any access that is not strictly necessary for the support of an ongoing
conference.

Consideration should be given to whether access to the keying material will be needed beyond
the conclusion of a conference. If not needed, the Key Distributor's policy should be to destroy
the keying material once the conference concludes or when keying material changes during the
course of the conference. If keying material is needed beyond the lifetime of the conference,
further consideration should be given to protecting keying material from future exposure. While
it might seem obvious, it is worth making this point, to avoid any doubt that if an adversary were
to record the media packets transmitted during a conference and then gain unauthorized access
to the keying material left unsecured on the Key Distributor even years later, the adversary could
decrypt the content of every packet transmitted during the conference.

8.4.  Endpoint Attacks

A Trusted Endpoint is so named because conference conﬁdentiality relies heavily on the security
and integrity of the endpoint. If an adversary successfully exploits a vulnerability in an endpoint,
it might be possible for the adversary to obtain all of the keying material used in the conference.
With that keying material, an adversary could decrypt any of the media ﬂows received from any
other endpoint, either in real time or at a later point in time (assuming that the adversary makes
a copy of the media packets).

Additionally, if an adversary successfully exploits an endpoint, the adversary could inject media
into the conference. For example, an adversary could manipulate the RTP or SRTP software to
transmit whatever media the adversary wishes to send. This could involve the reuse of the
compromised endpoint's SSRC or, since all conference participants share the same KEK, the use
of a new SSRC or the SSRC value of another endpoint. Only a single SRTP cipher suite deﬁned
provides source authentication properties that allow an endpoint to cryptographically assert that
it sent a particular E2E-protected packet (namely, Timed Eﬃcient Stream Loss-Tolerant

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

Authentication (TESLA)
deﬁned in PERC only allows an endpoint to determine that whoever sent a packet had received
the KEK.

), and its usage is presently not deﬁned for PERC. The suite

[RFC4383]

However, attacks on the endpoint are not limited to the PERC-speciﬁc software within the
endpoint. An attacker could inject media or record media by manipulating the software that sits
between the PERC-enabled application and the hardware microphone of a video camera, for
example. Likewise, an attacker could potentially access conﬁdential media by accessing memory,
cache, disk storage, etc. if the endpoint is not secured.

9.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3711]

[RFC6904]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8723]

[RFC8870]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
,
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

.

,

,

,

Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K. Norrman "The Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, March

,
.

,

,

,

Lennox, J. "Encryption of Header Extensions in the Secure Real-time Transport
<https://www.rfc-
Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 6904 DOI 10.17487/RFC6904
.
editor.org/info/rfc6904>

, April 2013,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Jennings, C., Jones, P., Barnes, R., and A.B. Roach "Double Encryption Procedures
for the Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 8723 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8723

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8723>

, April 2020,

,

,

Jennings, C., Mattsson, J., McGrew, D., Wing, D., and F. Andreasen "Encrypted
Key Transport for DTLS and Secure RTP" RFC 8870 DOI 10.17487/RFC8870
January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8870>

,

,

,

.

,

10.2.  Informative References

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

[PERC-DTLS]

[RFC3261]

[RFC4353]

[RFC4383]

[RFC4566]

[RFC5763]

[RFC5764]

[RFC6464]

[RFC7667]

[RFC8224]

[RFC8827]

Jones, P. E., Ellenbogen, P. M., and N. H. Ohlmeier "DTLS Tunnel between a
Media Distributor and Key Distributor to Facilitate Key Exchange" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-perc-dtls-tunnel-06
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-perc-dtls-tunnel-06>

, 16 October 2019,

,

,

,

.

<https://

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R.,
Handley, M., and E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
10.17487/RFC3261

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
, June 2002,

,
.

,

,

Rosenberg, J. "A Framework for Conferencing with the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)" RFC 4353 DOI 10.17487/RFC4353
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4353>

, February 2006,

,

,

.

Baugher, M. and E. Carrara "The Use of Timed Eﬃcient Stream Loss-Tolerant
Authentication (TESLA) in the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC
,
4383 DOI 10.17487/RFC4383
rfc4383>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2006,

,

.

,

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

,
Fischl, J., Tschofenig, H., and E. Rescorla "Framework for Establishing a Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) Security Context Using Datagram Transport
,
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 5763 DOI 10.17487/RFC5763
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5763>

, May 2010,

<https://

,

McGrew, D. and E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)"
RFC 5764 DOI 10.17487/RFC5764
rfc5764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2010,

,
.

,

,

,
Lennox, J., Ed., Ivov, E., and E. Marocco "A Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP)
Header Extension for Client-to-Mixer Audio Level Indication" RFC 6464 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6464>
10.17487/RFC6464

, December 2011,

,

,

.

Westerlund, M. and S. Wenger "RTP Topologies" RFC 7667 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7667

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7667>

, November 2015,

.

,

,

,

Peterson, J., Jennings, C., Rescorla, E., and C. Wendt "Authenticated Identity
Management in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 8224 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8224

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8224>

, February 2018,

,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. "WebRTC Security Architecture" RFC 8827 DOI 10.17487/RFC8827
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8827>

,

,

,

[W3C.CR-webrtc]

Jennings, C., Boström, H., and J-I. Bruaroey "WebRTC 1.0: Real-time
,
,

Communication Between Browsers" W3C Proposed Recommendation <https://
www.w3.org/TR/webrtc/>

.

,

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8871

Private Media Framework

January 2021

Acknowledgments

Mo Zanaty Christian Oien

The authors would like to thank
input on this document. Also, we would like to acknowledge
initial draft versions of this document as a coauthor. We would also like to acknowledge
Mattsson Mats Naslund
including much of the original text in the Security Considerations section (Section 8).

Magnus Westerlund

Nermeen Ismail

Richard Barnes

, and

, and

 for invaluable
 for serving on the

 for providing some of the text in the document,

John

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Paul E. Jones
Cisco
7025 Kit Creek Rd.
Research Triangle Park North Carolina 27709
,
United States of America
 +1 919 476 2048
Phone:
Email:
 paulej@packetizer.com

David Benham
Independent
California
United States of America
Email:

 dabenham@gmail.com

Christian Groves
Independent
Melbourne
Australia
Email:

 cngroves.std@gmail.com

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

