Stream:
RFC:
STD:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8945
93
2845, 4635
Standards Track
November 2020
2070-1721

F. Dupont
ISC

S. Morris
Una�liated

P. Vixie
Farsight

D. Eastlake 3rd
Futurewei

O. Gudmundsson
Cloudﬂare

B. Wellington
Akamai

RFC 8945
Secret Key Transaction Authentication for DNS
(TSIG)

Abstract

This document describes a protocol for transaction-level authentication using shared secrets and
one-way hashing. It can be used to authenticate dynamic updates to a DNS zone as coming from
an approved client or to authenticate responses as coming from an approved name server.

No recommendation is made here for distributing the shared secrets; it is expected that a
network administrator will statically conﬁgure name servers and clients using some out-of-band
mechanism.

This document obsoletes RFCs 2845 and 4635.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8945

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modiﬁcations of
such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modiﬁed
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Background

1.2.  Protocol Overview

1.3.  Document History

2.  Key Words

3.  Assigned Numbers

4.  TSIG RR Format

4.1.  TSIG RR Type

4.2.  TSIG Record Format

4.3.  MAC Computation

4.3.1.  Request MAC

4.3.2.  DNS Message

4.3.3.  TSIG Variables

5.  Protocol Details

5.1.  Generation of TSIG on Requests

5.2.  Server Processing of Request

5.2.1.  Key Check and Error Handling

5.2.2.  MAC Check and Error Handling

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

5.2.3.  Time Check and Error Handling

5.2.4.  Truncation Check and Error Handling

5.3.  Generation of TSIG on Answers

5.3.1.  TSIG on TCP Connections

5.3.2.  Generation of TSIG on Error Returns

5.4.  Client Processing of Answer

5.4.1.  Key Error Handling

5.4.2.  MAC Error Handling

5.4.3.  Time Error Handling

5.4.4.  Truncation Error Handling

5.5.  Special Considerations for Forwarding Servers

6.  Algorithms and Identiﬁers

7.  TSIG Truncation Policy

8.  Shared Secrets

9.  IANA Considerations

10. Security Considerations

10.1.  Issue Fixed in This Document

10.2.  Why Not DNSSEC?

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Background

The Domain Name System (DNS) (
database system that provides information fundamental to Internet operations, such as name-to-
address translation and mail-handling information.

) is a replicated hierarchical distributed

[RFC1034] [RFC1035]

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

This document speciﬁes use of a message authentication code (MAC), generated using certain
keyed hash functions, to provide an eﬃcient means of point-to-point authentication and integrity
checking for DNS transactions. Such transactions include DNS update requests and responses for
which this can provide a lightweight alternative to the secure DNS dynamic update protocol
described by

[RFC3007]

.

A further use of this mechanism is to protect zone transfers. In this case, the data covered would
be the whole zone transfer including any glue records sent. The protocol described by DNSSEC
(
[RFC4033] [RFC4034] [RFC4035]

) does not protect glue records and unsigned records.

,

,

The authentication mechanism proposed here provides a simple and eﬃcient authentication
between clients and servers, by using shared secret keys to establish a trust relationship between
two entities. Such keys must be protected in a manner similar to private keys, lest a third party
masquerade as one of the intended parties (by forging the MAC). The proposal is unsuitable for
general server-to-server authentication and for servers that speak with many other servers, since
key management would become unwieldy with the number of shared keys going up
quadratically. But it is suitable for many resolvers on hosts that only talk to a few recursive
servers.

1.2.  Protocol Overview

Secret Key Transaction Authentication makes use of signatures on messages sent between the
parties involved (e.g., resolver and server). These are known as "transaction signatures", or TSIG.
For historical reasons, in this document, they are referred to as message authentication codes
(MACs).

Use of TSIG presumes prior agreement between the two parties involved (e.g., resolver and
server) as to any algorithm and key to be used. The way that this agreement is reached is outside
the scope of the document.

A DNS message exchange involves the sending of a query and the receipt of one of more DNS
messages in response. For the query, the MAC is calculated based on the hash of the contents and
the agreed TSIG key. The MAC for the response is similar but also includes the MAC of the query
as part of the calculation. Where a response comprises multiple packets, the calculation of the
MAC associated with the second and subsequent packets includes in its inputs the MAC for the
preceding packet. In this way, it is possible to detect any interruption in the packet sequence,
although not its premature termination.

The MAC is contained in a TSIG resource record included in the additional section of the DNS
message.

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

1.3.  Document History

[RFC2845]
TSIG was originally speciﬁed by
following that document (and the related
related to this feature (
implementations were ﬁxed, but to avoid similar problems in the future, the two documents
were updated and merged, producing this revised speciﬁcation for TSIG.

. In 2017, two name server implementations strictly
[RFC4635]

[CVE-2017-3142] [CVE-2017-3143] [CVE-2017-11104]

) were discovered to have security problems

). The

,

,

While TSIG implemented according to this RFC provides for enhanced security, there are no
changes in interoperability. TSIG on the wire is still the same mechanism described in
only the checking semantics have been changed. See Section 10.1 for further details.

;
[RFC2845]

2.  Key Words

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Assigned Numbers

This document deﬁnes the following Resource Record (RR) type and associated value:

TSIG (250)

In addition, the document also deﬁnes the following DNS RCODEs and associated names:

16 (BADSIG)

17 (BADKEY)

18 (BADTIME)

22 (BADTRUNC)

(See

Section 2.3 of [RFC6895]

 concerning the assignment of the value 16 to BADSIG.)

These RCODES may appear within the "Error" ﬁeld of a TSIG RR.

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

4.  TSIG RR Format

4.1.  TSIG RR Type

To provide secret key authentication, we use an RR type whose mnemonic is TSIG and whose
type code is 250. TSIG is a meta-RR and
authentication between DNS entities that have established a shared secret key. TSIG RRs are
dynamically computed to cover a particular DNS transaction and are not DNS RRs in the usual
sense.

 be cached. TSIG RRs are used for

MUST NOT

As the TSIG RRs are related to one DNS request/response, there is no value in storing or
retransmitting them; thus, the TSIG RR is discarded once it has been used to authenticate a DNS
message.

4.2.  TSIG Record Format

The ﬁelds of the TSIG RR are described below. All multi-octet integers in the record are sent in
network byte order (see

Section 2.3.2 of [RFC1035]

).

NAME:

The name of the key used, in domain name syntax. The name should reﬂect the names

of the hosts and uniquely identify the key among a set of keys these two hosts may share at
any given time. For example, if hosts A.site.example and B.example.net share a key,
possibilities for the key name include <id>.A.site.example, <id>.B.example.net, and
<id>.A.site.example.B.example.net. It should be possible for more than one key to be in
simultaneous use among a set of interacting hosts. This allows for periodic key rotation as per
best operational practices, as well as algorithm agility as indicated by

.
[RFC7696]

The name may be used as a local index to the key involved, but it is recommended that it be
globally unique. Where a key is just shared between two hosts, its name actually need only be
meaningful to them, but it is recommended that the key name be mnemonic and incorporate
the names of participating agents or resources as suggested above.

TYPE:

This

MUST

 be TSIG (250: Transaction SIGnature).

CLASS:

This

MUST

 be ANY.

TTL:

This

MUST

 be 0.

RDLENGTH:

(variable)

RDATA:

The RDATA for a TSIG RR consists of a number of ﬁelds, described below:

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

                         1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 3 3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    /                         Algorithm Name                        /
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                                                               |
    |          Time Signed          +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                               |            Fudge              |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |          MAC Size             |                               /
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+             MAC               /
    /                                                               /
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |          Original ID          |            Error              |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |          Other Len            |                               /
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+           Other Data          /
    /                                                               /
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The contents of the RDATA ﬁelds are:

Algorithm Name:

an octet sequence identifying the TSIG algorithm in the domain name syntax. (Allowed names
are listed in Table 3.) The name is stored in the DNS name wire format as described in
[RFC1034]

 be compressed.

, this name

[RFC3597]

MUST NOT

. As per

Time Signed:

an unsigned 48-bit integer containing the time the message was signed as seconds since 00:00
on 1970-01-01 UTC, ignoring leap seconds.

Fudge:

an unsigned 16-bit integer specifying the allowed time diﬀerence in seconds permitted in the
Time Signed ﬁeld.

MAC Size:

an unsigned 16-bit integer giving the length of the MAC ﬁeld in octets. Truncation is indicated
by a MAC Size less than the size of the keyed hash produced by the algorithm speciﬁed by the
Algorithm Name.

MAC:

a sequence of octets whose contents are deﬁned by the TSIG algorithm used, possibly
truncated as speciﬁed by the MAC Size. The length of this ﬁeld is given by the MAC Size.
Calculation of the MAC is detailed in Section 4.3.

Original ID:

an unsigned 16-bit integer holding the message ID of the original request message. For a TSIG
RR on a request, it is set equal to the DNS message ID. In a TSIG attached to a response -- or in
cases such as the forwarding of a dynamic update request -- the ﬁeld contains the ID of the
original DNS request.

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8945

Error:

DNS TSIG

November 2020

in responses, an unsigned 16-bit integer containing the extended RCODE covering TSIG
processing. In requests, this

 be zero.

MUST

Other Len:

an unsigned 16-bit integer specifying the length of the Other Data ﬁeld in octets.

Other Data:

additional data relevant to the TSIG record. In responses, this will be empty (i.e., Other Len
will be zero) unless the content of the Error ﬁeld is BADTIME, in which case it will be a 48-bit
unsigned integer containing the server's current time as the number of seconds since 00:00 on
1970-01-01 UTC, ignoring leap seconds (see Section 5.2.3). This document assigns no meaning
to its contents in requests.

4.3.  MAC Computation

When generating or verifying the contents of a TSIG record, the data listed in the rest of this
section are passed, in the order listed below, as input to MAC computation. The data are passed
in network byte order or wire format, as appropriate and are fed into the hashing function as a
continuous octet sequence with no interﬁeld separator or padding.

4.3.1.  Request MAC

Only included in the computation of a MAC for a response message (or the ﬁrst message in a
multi-message response), the validated request MAC
If the request MAC failed to validate, an unsigned error message
(Section 5.3.2).

 be returned instead

 be included in the MAC computation.

MUST

MUST

The request's MAC, comprising the following ﬁelds, is digested in wire format:

Field

Type

Description

MAC Size

Unsigned 16-bit integer

in network byte order

MAC Data

octet sequence

exactly as transmitted

Table 1: Request's MAC

Special considerations apply to the TSIG calculation for the second and subsequent messages in a
response that consists of multiple DNS messages (e.g., a zone transfer). These are described in
Section 5.3.1.

4.3.2.  DNS Message

In the MAC computation, the whole/complete DNS message in wire format is used.

When creating an outgoing message, the TSIG is based on the message content before the TSIG
RR has been added to the additional section and before the DNS Message Header's ARCOUNT has
been incremented to include the TSIG RR.

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

When verifying an incoming message, the TSIG is checked against the message after the TSIG RR
has been removed, the ARCOUNT decremented, and the message ID replaced by the original
message ID from the TSIG if those IDs diﬀer. (This could happen, for example, when forwarding a
dynamic update request.)

4.3.3.  TSIG Variables

Also included in the digest is certain information present in the TSIG RR. Adding this data
provides further protection against an attempt to interfere with the message.

Source

Field Name

Notes

TSIG RR

NAME

Key name, in canonical wire format

TSIG RR

CLASS

MUST

 be ANY

TSIG RR

TTL

MUST

 be 0

TSIG RDATA

Algorithm Name

in canonical wire format

TSIG RDATA

Time Signed

in network byte order

TSIG RDATA

Fudge

in network byte order

TSIG RDATA

Error

in network byte order

TSIG RDATA

Other Len

in network byte order

TSIG RDATA

Other Data

exactly as transmitted

Table 2: TSIG Variables

The RR RDLENGTH and RDATA MAC Size are not included in the input to MAC computation, since
they are not guaranteed to be knowable before the MAC is generated.

The Original ID ﬁeld is not included in this section, as it has already been substituted for the
message ID in the DNS header and hashed.

For each label type, there must be a deﬁned "Canonical wire format" that speciﬁes how to
express a label in an unambiguous way. For label type 00, this is deﬁned in
[RFC4034]

. The use of label types other than 00 is not deﬁned for this speciﬁcation.

Section 6.2 of

4.3.3.1.  Time Values Used in TSIG Calculations

The data digested includes the two timer values in the TSIG header in order to defend against
replay attacks. If this were not done, an attacker could replay old messages but update the Time
Signed and Fudge ﬁelds to make the message look new. The two ﬁelds are collectively named
"TSIG Timers", and for the purpose of MAC calculation, they are hashed in their wire format, in
the following order: ﬁrst Time Signed, then Fudge.

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

5.  Protocol Details

5.1.  Generation of TSIG on Requests

Once the outgoing record has been constructed, the client performs the keyed hash (Hashed
Message Authentication Code (HMAC)) computation, appends a TSIG record with the calculated
MAC to the additional section (incrementing the ARCOUNT to reﬂect the additional RR), and
transmits the request to the server. This TSIG record
and
key name from the request while awaiting an answer.

 be the last record in the additional data section. The client

 be the only TSIG RR in the message

 store the MAC and the

MUST

MUST

MUST

The digest components for a request are:

DNS Message (request)

TSIG Variables (request)

5.2.  Server Processing of Request

If an incoming message contains a TSIG record, it
section. Multiple TSIG records are not allowed. If multiple TSIG records are detected or a TSIG
record is present in any other position, the DNS message is dropped and a response with RCODE
1 (FORMERR)
TSIG RR, a copy of the TSIG RR is stored and the TSIG RR is removed from the DNS message and
decremented out of the DNS message header's ARCOUNT.

 be returned. Upon receipt of a message with exactly one correctly placed

 be the last record in the additional

MUST

MUST

If the TSIG RR cannot be interpreted, the server
a FORMERR to the server. Otherwise, the server is

MUST

 regard the message as corrupt and return

REQUIRED

 to return a TSIG RR in the response.

To validate the received TSIG RR, the server
order:

MUST

 perform the following checks in the following

1.

Check key

2.

Check MAC

3.

Check time values

4.

Check truncation policy

5.2.1.  Key Check and Error Handling

If a non-forwarding server does not recognize the key or algorithm used by the client (or
recognizes the algorithm but does not implement it), the server
with RCODE 9 (NOTAUTH) and TSIG ERROR 17 (BADKEY). This response
speciﬁed in Section 5.3.2. The server
forwarding servers; see Section 5.5.)

 log the error. (Special considerations apply to

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

 be unsigned as

 generate an error response

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

5.2.2.  MAC Check and Error Handling

Using the information in the TSIG, the server
and comparing the result with the MAC received. If the MAC fails to verify, the server
MUST
generate an error response as speciﬁed in Section 5.3.2 with RCODE 9 (NOTAUTH) and TSIG
ERROR 16 (BADSIG). This response
SHOULD

 be unsigned, as speciﬁed in Section 5.3.2. The server

 verify the MAC by doing its own calculation

 log the error.

MUST

MUST

5.2.2.1.  MAC Truncation

When space is at a premium and the strength of the full length of a MAC is not needed, it is
reasonable to truncate the keyed hash and use the truncated value for authentication. HMAC
SHA-1 truncated to 96 bits is an option available in several IETF protocols, including IPsec and
TLS. However, while this option is kept for backwards compatibility, it may not provide a
security level appropriate for all cases in the modern environment. In these cases, it is preferable
to use a hashing algorithm such as SHA-256-128, SHA-384-192, or SHA-512-256

.
[RFC4868]

Processing of a truncated MAC follows these rules:

If the MAC Size ﬁeld is greater than the keyed hash output length:
MUST

MUST NOT
 cause the DNS message to be dropped and RCODE 1

This case

 be

generated and, if received,
(FORMERR) to be returned.

If the MAC Size ﬁeld equals the keyed hash output length:

The entire keyed hash output is

present and used.

If the MAC Size ﬁeld is less than the larger of 10 (octets) and half the length of the hash function
in use:

With the exception of certain TSIG error messages described in Section 5.3.2, where it is
permitted that the MAC Size be zero, this case
 be generated and, if received,
cause the DNS message to be dropped and RCODE 1 (FORMERR) to be returned.

MUST NOT

MUST

Otherwise:

This is sent when the signer has truncated the keyed hash output to an allowable

[RFC2104]

length, as described in
, taking initial octets and discarding trailing octets. TSIG
truncation can only be to an integral number of octets. On receipt of a DNS message with
truncation thus indicated, the locally calculated MAC is similarly truncated, and only the
truncated values are compared for authentication. The request MAC used when calculating
the TSIG MAC for a reply is the truncated request MAC.

5.2.3.  Time Check and Error Handling

If the server time is outside the time interval speciﬁed by the request (which is the Time Signed
value plus/minus the Fudge value), the server
(NOTAUTH) and TSIG ERROR 18 (BADTIME). The server
Signed value in a message generated by a key and
 return BADTIME if a message
received later has an earlier Time Signed value. A response indicating a BADTIME error
signed by the same key as the request. It
MUST
Signed ﬁeld, the server's current time (an unsigned 48-bit integer) in the Other Data ﬁeld, and 6

 include the client's current time in the Time

 generate an error response with RCODE 9

 also cache the most recent Time

SHOULD

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

 be

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

in the Other Len ﬁeld. This is done so that the client can verify a message with a BADTIME error
without the veriﬁcation failing due to another BADTIME error. In addition, the Fudge ﬁeld
MUST
be set to the fudge value received from the client. The data signed is speciﬁed in Section 5.3.2.
The server

 log the error.

SHOULD

Caching the most recent Time Signed value and rejecting requests with an earlier one could lead
to valid messages being rejected if transit through the network led to UDP packets arriving in a
diﬀerent order to the one in which they were sent. Implementations should be aware of this
possibility and be prepared to deal with it, e.g., by retransmitting the rejected request with a new
TSIG once outstanding requests have completed or the time given by their Time Signed value
plus the Fudge value has passed. If implementations do retry requests in these cases, a limit
SHOULD

 be placed on the maximum number of retries.

5.2.4.  Truncation Check and Error Handling

If a TSIG is received with truncation that is permitted per Section 5.2.2.1 but the MAC is too short
for the local policy in force, an RCODE 9 (NOTAUTH) and TSIG ERROR 22 (BADTRUNC)
returned. The server

 log the error.

SHOULD

MUST

 be

5.3.  Generation of TSIG on Answers

When a server has generated a response to a signed request, it signs the response using the same
algorithm and key. The server
 generate a signed response to a request if either the key
is invalid (e.g., key name or algorithm name are unknown) or the MAC fails validation; see
Section 5.3.2 for details of responding in these cases.

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

 generate a signed response to an unsigned request, except in the case of a

It also
response to a client's unsigned TKEY request if the secret key is established on the server side
after the server processed the client's request. Signing responses to unsigned TKEY requests
 be explicitly speciﬁed in the description of an individual secret key establishment
MUST
algorithm

[RFC3645]

.

The digest components used to generate a TSIG on a response are:

Request MAC

DNS Message (response)

TSIG Variables (response)

(This calculation is diﬀerent for the second and subsequent message in a multi-message answer;
see below.)

If addition of the TSIG record will cause the message to be truncated, the server
response so that a TSIG can be included. This response contains only the question and a TSIG
record, has the TC bit set, and has an RCODE of 0 (NOERROR). At this point, the client
SHOULD
retry the request using TCP (as per

Section 4.2.2 of [RFC1035]

MUST

 alter the

).

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

5.3.1.  TSIG on TCP Connections

A DNS TCP session, such as a zone transfer, can include multiple DNS messages. Using TSIG on
such a connection can protect the connection from an attack and provide data integrity. The TSIG
 be included on all DNS messages in the response. For backward compatibility, a client that
MUST
receives DNS messages and veriﬁes TSIG
 accept up to 99 intermediary messages without a
TSIG and

MUST
 verify that both the ﬁrst and last message contain a TSIG.

MUST

The ﬁrst message is processed as a standard answer (see Section 5.3), but subsequent messages
have the following digest components:

Prior MAC (running)

DNS Messages (any unsigned messages since the last TSIG)

TSIG Timers (current message)

The "Prior MAC" is the MAC from the TSIG attached to the last message containing a TSIG. "DNS
Messages" comprises the concatenation (in message order) of all messages after the last message
that included a TSIG and includes the current message. "TSIG Timers" comprises the Time Signed
and Fudge ﬁelds (in that order) pertaining to the message for which the TSIG was created; this
means that the successive TSIG records in the stream will have non-decreasing Time Signed
values. Note that only the timers are included in the second and subsequent messages, not all the
TSIG variables.

This allows the client to rapidly detect when the session has been altered; at which point, it can
close the connection and retry. If a client TSIG veriﬁcation fails, the client
connection. If the client does not receive TSIG records frequently enough (as speciﬁed above), it
SHOULD
client
the exact behavior is not speciﬁed).

 treat this the same way as they would any other interrupted transfer (although

 assume the connection has been hijacked, and it

 close the connection. The

 close the

SHOULD

SHOULD

MUST

5.3.2.  Generation of TSIG on Error Returns

When a server detects an error relating to the key or MAC in the incoming request, the server
SHOULD
send back a signed error message.

 send back an unsigned error message (MAC Size == 0 and empty MAC). It

MUST NOT

If an error is detected relating to the TSIG validity period or the MAC is too short for the local
policy, the server

 send back a signed error message. The digest components are:

SHOULD

Request MAC (if the request MAC validated)

DNS Message (response)

TSIG Variables (response)

The reason that the request MAC is not included in this MAC in some cases is to make it possible
for the client to verify the error. If the error is not a TSIG error, the response
 be generated
as speciﬁed in Section 5.3.

MUST

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

5.4.  Client Processing of Answer

When a client receives a response from a server and expects to see a TSIG, it ﬁrst checks if the
TSIG RR is present in the response. If not, the response is treated as having a format error and is
discarded.

If the TSIG RR is present, the client performs the same checks as described in Section 5.2. If the
TSIG RR is unsigned as speciﬁed in Section 5.3.2 or does not validate, the message
discarded unless the RCODE is 9 (NOAUTH). In this case, the client
response as if it were a TSIG error, as described in the following subsections.

MUST
 attempt to verify the

SHOULD

 be

Regardless of the RCODE, a message containing a TSIG RR that is unsigned as speciﬁed in Section
5.3.2 or that fails veriﬁcation
 be considered an acceptable response, as it may have
been spoofed or manipulated. Instead, the client
 log an error and continue to wait for a
signed response until the request times out.

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

5.4.1.  Key Error Handling

If an RCODE on a response is 9 (NOTAUTH), but the response TSIG validates and the TSIG key is
recognized by the client but is diﬀerent from that used on the request, then this is a key-related
error. The client
should never occur, as a server
sign the request.

 retry the request using the key speciﬁed by the server. However, this

 sign a response with a diﬀerent key to that used to

MUST NOT

MAY

5.4.2.  MAC Error Handling

If the response RCODE is 9 (NOTAUTH) and TSIG ERROR is 16 (BADSIG), this is a MAC-related
 retry the request with a new request ID, but it would be better to try a
error, and clients
diﬀerent shared key if one is available. Clients
associated with each key. Clients

SHOULD
 log this event.

 keep track of how many MAC errors are

SHOULD

MAY

5.4.3.  Time Error Handling

If the response RCODE is 9 (NOTAUTH) and the TSIG ERROR is 18 (BADTIME) or the current time
does not fall in the range speciﬁed in the TSIG record, then this is a time-related error. This is an
indication that the client and server clocks are not synchronized. In this case, the client
SHOULD
log the event. DNS resolvers
 adjust any clocks in the client based on BADTIME errors,
but the server's time in the Other Data ﬁeld

 be logged.

MUST NOT

SHOULD

5.4.4.  Truncation Error Handling

If the response RCODE is 9 (NOTAUTH) and the TSIG ERROR is 22 (BADTRUNC), then this is a
truncation-related error. The client
output (no truncation), using the truncation used in the response as a hint for what the server
policy allowed (Section 7). Clients

 retry with a lesser truncation up to the full HMAC

 log this event.

SHOULD

MAY

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

5.5.  Special Considerations for Forwarding Servers

MUST

SHOULD

 check for the existence of a

 forward the message unchanged including the TSIG. If the name of the TSIG is of

A server acting as a forwarding server of a DNS message
TSIG record. If the name on the TSIG is not of a secret that the server shares with the originator,
the server
a key this server shares with the originator, it
checks, the forwarding server
the next forwarder. If no transaction security is available to the destination and the message is a
query, and if the corresponding response has the AD ﬂag (see
MUST
clear the AD ﬂag before adding the TSIG to the response and returning the result to the system
from which it received the query.

, if possible, include a TSIG of its own to the destination or

 process the TSIG. If the TSIG passes all

) set, the forwarder

[RFC4035]

MUST

MUST

6.  Algorithms and Identiﬁers

The only message digest algorithm speciﬁed in the ﬁrst version of these speciﬁcations
was "HMAC-MD5" (see
[RFC2104]
ago
protocols", with the availability of more secure alternatives, the opportunity has been taken to
make the implementation of this algorithm optional.

 concluded that "it may not be urgent to remove HMAC-MD5 from the existing

). Although a review of its security some years

[RFC1321]

[RFC6151]

 and

[RFC2845]

 added mandatory support in TSIG for SHA-1

[RFC4635]
have been demonstrated
Section 2 of [RFC6151]
TSIG is still mandatory for compatibility reasons, existing uses
sha256 or other SHA-2 digest algorithms (

, so the MD5 security considerations described in
 apply to SHA-1 in a similar manner. Although support for hmac-sha1 in
 be replaced with hmac-

[FIPS180-4] [RFC3874] [RFC6234]

[FIPS180-4] [RFC3174]

[SHA1SHAMBLES]

. SHA-1 collisions

SHOULD

).

,

,

Use of TSIG between two DNS agents is by mutual agreement. That agreement can include the
support of additional algorithms and criteria as to which algorithms and truncations are
acceptable, subject to the restriction and guidelines in Section 5.2.2.1. Key agreement can be by
the TKEY mechanism

 or some other mutually agreeable method.

[RFC2930]

 implement gss-tsig and the other algorithms listed below. SHA-1 truncated to 96 bits (12

MUST

 also implement HMAC SHA1 and HMAC SHA256 and

Implementations that support TSIG
MAY
octets)

 be implemented.

SHOULD

Algorithm Name

Implementation

Use

HMAC-MD5.SIG-ALG.REG.INT

MAY

MUST NOT

gss-tsig

hmac-sha1

hmac-sha224

hmac-sha256

MAY

MUST

MAY

MUST

MAY

NOT RECOMMENDED

MAY

RECOMMENDED

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

Algorithm Name

Implementation

Use

hmac-sha256-128

hmac-sha384

hmac-sha384-192

hmac-sha512

hmac-sha512-256

MAY

MAY

MAY

MAY

MAY

MAY

MAY

MAY

MAY

MAY

Table 3: Algorithms for Implementations Supporting TSIG

7.  TSIG Truncation Policy

As noted above, two DNS agents (e.g., resolver and server) must mutually agree to use TSIG.
Implicit in such an "agreement" are criteria as to acceptable keys, algorithms, and (with the
extensions in this document) truncations. Local policies
though they use an algorithm for which implementation is mandatory.

 require the rejection of TSIGs, even

MAY

When a local policy permits acceptance of a TSIG with a particular algorithm and a particular
non-zero amount of truncation, it
truncation (a longer MAC) up to the full keyed hash output.

 also permit the use of that algorithm with lesser

SHOULD

Regardless of a lower acceptable truncated MAC length speciﬁed by local policy, a reply
be sent with a MAC at least as long as that in the corresponding request. Note, if the request
speciﬁed a MAC length longer than the keyed hash output, it will be rejected by processing rules
(Section 5.2.2.1, case 1).

SHOULD

Implementations permitting multiple acceptable algorithms and/or truncations
 allow diﬀerent truncations for the
this list to be ordered by presumed strength and
same algorithm to be treated as separate entities in this list. When so implemented, policies
 accept a presumed stronger algorithm and truncation than the minimum strength
SHOULD
required by the policy.

SHOULD

SHOULD

 permit

8.  Shared Secrets

Secret keys are very sensitive information and all available steps should be taken to protect them
on every host on which they are stored. Generally, such hosts need to be physically protected. If
they are multi-user machines, great care should be taken so that unprivileged users have no
access to keying material. Resolvers often run unprivileged, which means all users of a host
would be able to see whatever conﬁguration data are used by the resolver.

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

A name server usually runs privileged, which means its conﬁguration data need not be visible to
all users of the host. For this reason, a host that implements transaction-based authentication
should probably be conﬁgured with a "stub resolver" and a local caching and forwarding name
[RFC2136]
server. This presents a special problem for
communicate only with a zone's authoritative name servers.

, which otherwise depends on clients to

Use of strong, random shared secrets is essential to the security of TSIG. See
discussion of this issue. The secret
SHOULD
.
[RFC2104]

[RFC4086]
 be at least as long as the keyed hash output

 for a

9.  IANA Considerations

[IANA-TSIG]

. Algorithm names are text strings encoded using the syntax of a domain

IANA maintains a registry of algorithm names to be used as "Algorithm Names", as deﬁned in
Section 4.2
name. There is no structure to the names, and algorithm names are compared as if they were
DNS names, i.e., comparison is case insensitive. Previous speciﬁcations (
[RFC4635]
registered "gss-tsig" as an identiﬁer for TSIG authentication where the cryptographic operations
are delegated to the Generic Security Service (GSS)
algorithms, and the registry has been updated with the names listed in Table 3.

) deﬁned values for the HMAC-MD5 and some HMAC-SHA algorithms. IANA has also

. This document adds to the allowed

[RFC3645]

[RFC2845]

 and

New algorithms are assigned using the IETF Review policy deﬁned in
name HMAC-MD5.SIG-ALG.REG.INT looks like a fully qualiﬁed domain name for historical
reasons; other algorithm names are simple, single-component names.

[RFC8126]

. The algorithm

IANA maintains a registry of RCODEs (error codes) (see
values" to be used for "Error" values, as deﬁned in Section 4.2. This document deﬁnes the
RCODEs as described in Section 3. New error codes are assigned and speciﬁed as in

[IANA-RCODEs]

, including "TSIG Error

[RFC6895]
.

10.  Security Considerations

The approach speciﬁed here is computationally much less expensive than the signatures
speciﬁed in DNSSEC. As long as the shared secret key is not compromised, strong authentication
is provided between two DNS systems, e.g., for the last hop from a local name server to the user
resolver or between primary and secondary name servers.

Recommendations for choosing and maintaining secret keys can be found in
client host has been compromised, the server should suspend the use of all secrets known to that
client. If possible, secrets should be stored in an encrypted form. Secrets should never be
transmitted in the clear over any network. This document does not address the issue on how to
distribute secrets except that it mentions the possibilities of manual conﬁguration and the use of
TKEY
sharing would allow any party knowing the key to impersonate any other such party to members
of the group.

 be shared by more than two entities; any such additional

SHOULD NOT

[RFC2930]

[RFC2104]

. Secrets

. If the

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

This mechanism does not authenticate source data, only its transmission between two parties
who share some secret. The original source data can come from a compromised zone master or
can be corrupted during transit from an authentic zone master to some "caching forwarder".
However, if the server is faithfully performing the full DNSSEC security checks, then only
security-checked data will be available to the client.

A Fudge value that is too large may leave the server open to replay attacks. A Fudge value that is
too small may cause failures if machines are not time synchronized or there are unexpected
network delays. The

 value in most situations is 300 seconds.

RECOMMENDED

To prevent cross-algorithm attacks, there
given key name.

SHOULD

 only be one algorithm associated with any

In several cases where errors are detected, an unsigned error message must be returned. This
can allow for an attacker to spoof or manipulate these responses. Section 5.4 recommends
logging these as errors and continuing to wait for a signed response until the request times out.

Although the strength of an algorithm determines its security, there have been some arguments
that mild truncation can strengthen a MAC by reducing the information available to an attacker.
However, excessive truncation clearly weakens authentication by reducing the number of bits an
attacker has to try to break the authentication by brute force

.
[RFC2104]

Signiﬁcant progress has been made recently in cryptanalysis of hash functions of the types used
here. While the results so far should not aﬀect HMAC, the stronger SHA-256 algorithm is being
made mandatory as a precaution.

See also the Security Considerations section of
this RFC were taken.

[RFC2104]

 from which the limits on truncation in

10.1.  Issue Fixed in This Document

When signing a DNS reply message using TSIG, the MAC computation uses the request message's
MAC as an input to cryptographically relate the reply to the request. The original TSIG
speciﬁcation
time was invalid, some implementations failed to carry out further checks and could use an
invalid request MAC in the signed reply.

 required that the time values be checked before the request's MAC. If the

[RFC2845]

This document makes it mandatory that the request MAC is considered to be invalid until it has
been validated; until then, any answer must be unsigned. For this reason, the request MAC is
now checked before the time values.

10.2.  Why Not DNSSEC?

DNS has been extended by DNSSEC (
origin authentication, and public key distribution, all based on public key cryptography and
public key based digital signatures. To be practical, this form of security generally requires
extensive local caching of keys and tracing of authentication through multiple keys and
signatures to a pre-trusted locally conﬁgured key.

[RFC4033] [RFC4034]
,

) to provide for data

[RFC4035]

, and

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

One diﬃculty with the DNSSEC scheme is that common DNS implementations include simple
"stub" resolvers which do not have caches. Such resolvers typically rely on a caching DNS server
on another host. It is impractical for these stub resolvers to perform general DNSSEC
authentication and they would naturally depend on their caching DNS server to perform such
services for them. To do so securely requires secure communication of queries and responses.
DNSSEC provides public key transaction signatures to support this, but such signatures are very
expensive computationally to generate. In general, these require the same complex public key
logic that is impractical for stubs.

A second area where use of straight DNSSEC public key based mechanisms may be impractical is
authenticating dynamic update
 requests. DNSSEC provides for request signatures but
with DNSSEC they, like transaction signatures, require computationally expensive public key
cryptography and complex authentication logic. Secure Domain Name System Dynamic Update
(
[RFC3007]

) describes how diﬀerent keys are used in dynamically updated zones.

[RFC2136]

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[FIPS180-4]

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2845]

[RFC3597]

[RFC4635]

National Institute of Standards and Technology "Secure Hash Standard (SHS)"
FIPS PUB 180-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4
,
doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4>

, August 2015,

<https://

,

.

,

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

.

,

,
Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation" STD 13
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

.

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Vixie, P., Gudmundsson, O., Eastlake 3rd, D., and B. Wellington "Secret Key
Transaction Authentication for DNS (TSIG)" RFC 2845 DOI 10.17487/RFC2845
May 2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2845>

,

.

,

,

,

,
Gustafsson, A. "Handling of Unknown DNS Resource Record (RR) Types" RFC
,
3597 DOI 10.17487/RFC3597
rfc3597>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2003,

,

.

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "HMAC SHA (Hashed Message Authentication Code, Secure
Hash Algorithm) TSIG Algorithm Identiﬁers" RFC 4635 DOI 10.17487/RFC4635
August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4635>

,
.

,

,

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

[RFC8174]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

11.2.  Informative References

[CVE-2017-11104]

Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures "CVE-2017-11104: Improper TSIG

,

validity period check can allow TSIG forgery"
, June 2017,
.
cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-11104>

<https://cve.mitre.org/

[CVE-2017-3142]

Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures "CVE-2017-3142: An error in TSIG
<https://

authentication can permit unauthorized zone transfers"
cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-3142>

, June 2017,

.

,

[CVE-2017-3143]

Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures "CVE-2017-3143: An error in TSIG

,

authentication can permit unauthorized dynamic updates"
.
cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-3143>

, June 2017,

<https://

[IANA-RCODEs]

[IANA-TSIG]

[RFC1321]

[RFC2104]

[RFC2136]

[RFC2930]

[RFC3007]

[RFC3174]

[RFC3645]

IANA "DNS RCODEs" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/dns-parameters/>

,

,

.

,

IANA "TSIG Algorithm Names" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/tsig-
algorithm-names/>

.

,

Rivest, R. "The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm" RFC 1321 DOI 10.17487/
RFC1321

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1321>

,
, April 1992,

,

,

.

Krawczyk, H., Bellare, M., and R. Canetti "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message
,
Authentication" RFC 2104 DOI 10.17487/RFC2104
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2104>

, February 1997,

<https://

,

.

,

Vixie, P., Ed., Thomson, S., Rekhter, Y., and J. Bound "Dynamic Updates in the
,
Domain Name System (DNS UPDATE)" RFC 2136 DOI 10.17487/RFC2136
1997,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2136>

, April

,

.

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Secret Key Establishment for DNS (TKEY RR)" RFC 2930 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2930>
10.17487/RFC2930

, September 2000,

,

,

,

,

,
Wellington, B. "Secure Domain Name System (DNS) Dynamic Update" RFC 3007
DOI 10.17487/RFC3007
rfc3007>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2000,

,

.

Eastlake 3rd, D. and P. Jones "US Secure Hash Algorithm 1 (SHA1)" RFC 3174
DOI 10.17487/RFC3174
rfc3174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2001,

.

,

,

,

Kwan, S., Garg, P., Gilroy, J., Esibov, L., Westhead, J., and R. Hall "Generic
Security Service Algorithm for Secret Key Transaction Authentication for DNS
,
,
(GSS-TSIG)" RFC 3645 DOI 10.17487/RFC3645
<https://www.rfc-
editor.org/info/rfc3645>

, October 2003,

.

,

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

[RFC3874]

[RFC4033]

[RFC4034]

[RFC4035]

[RFC4086]

[RFC4868]

[RFC6151]

[RFC6234]

[RFC6895]

[RFC7696]

[RFC8126]

Housley, R. "A 224-bit One-way Hash Function: SHA-224" RFC 3874 DOI
10.17487/RFC3874

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3874>

, September 2004,

,

,

.

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "DNS Security
Introduction and Requirements" RFC 4033 DOI 10.17487/RFC4033
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4033>

,

,

.

, March 2005,

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "Resource Records for
the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4034 DOI 10.17487/RFC4034
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4034>

, March 2005,

,

,

.

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "Protocol
Modiﬁcations for the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4035 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4035

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4035>

, March 2005,

,
,

,

.

Eastlake 3rd, D., Schiller, J., and S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, June 2005,

<https://

,

,

,

,

.

Kelly, S. and S. Frankel "Using HMAC-SHA-256, HMAC-SHA-384, and HMAC-
SHA-512 with IPsec" RFC 4868 DOI 10.17487/RFC4868
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4868>

, May 2007,

<https://

.

,

,

,

Turner, S. and L. Chen "Updated Security Considerations for the MD5 Message-
,
Digest and the HMAC-MD5 Algorithms" RFC 6151 DOI 10.17487/RFC6151
2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6151>

, March

,

.

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. and T. Hansen "US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and SHA-
based HMAC and HKDF)" RFC 6234 DOI 10.17487/RFC6234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6234>

, May 2011,

,

,

.

,

<https://

,
Eastlake 3rd, D. "Domain Name System (DNS) IANA Considerations" BCP 42
, April 2013,
RFC 6895 DOI 10.17487/RFC6895
rfc6895>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

,

Housley, R. "Guidelines for Cryptographic Algorithm Agility and Selecting
Mandatory-to-Implement Algorithms" BCP 201 RFC 7696 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7696

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7696>

, November 2015,

,

,

.

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

,

.

,

, June

[SHA1SHAMBLES]

,
Leurent, G. and T. Peyrin "SHA-1 is a Shambles"
.

eprint.iacr.org/2020/014.pdf>

, January 2020,

<https://

Acknowledgements

The security problem addressed by this document was reported by
Synacktiv.

Clément Berthaux

 from

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8945

DNS TSIG

November 2020

,

Peter van Dijk Benno Overeinder Willem Toroop Ondrej Sury Mukund Sivaraman
Dolmans
, and
Martin Hoﬀman
and wording of the updated document.

 participated in the discussions that prompted this document.

Tony Finch

 made extremely helpful suggestions concerning the structure

Mukund Sivaraman

Ralph
,

, and

,

,

,

Stephen Morris would like to thank Internet Systems Consortium for its support of his
participation in the creation of this document.

Authors' Addresses

Francis Dupont
Internet Systems Consortium, Inc.
PO Box 360
Newmarket NH 03857
,
United States of America
Email:

 Francis.Dupont@fdupont.fr

Stephen Morris
Unaﬃliated
United Kingdom
Email:

 sa.morris8@gmail.com

Paul Vixie
Farsight Security Inc
Suite 180
177 Bovet Road
San Mateo CA 94402
,
United States of America
Email:

 paul@redbarn.org

Donald E. Eastlake 3rd
Futurewei Technologies
2386 Panoramic Circle
Apopka FL 32703
,
United States of America
Email:

 d3e3e3@gmail.com

Olafur Gudmundsson
Cloudﬂare
United States of America
Email:

 olafur+ietf@cloudﬂare.com

Brian Wellington
Akamai
United States of America
Email:

 bwelling@akamai.com

Dupont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

