Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8742
Standards Track
February 2020
2070-1721
C. Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI

RFC 8742
Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)
Sequences

Abstract

This document describes the Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Sequence format and
associated media type "application/cbor-seq". A CBOR Sequence consists of any number of
encoded CBOR data items, simply concatenated in sequence.

Structured syntax suﬃxes for media types allow other media types to build on them and make it
explicit that they are built on an existing media type as their foundation. This speciﬁcation
deﬁnes and registers "+cbor-seq" as a structured syntax suﬃx for CBOR Sequences.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8742

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8742

CBOR Sequences

February 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8742

CBOR Sequences

February 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.  CBOR Sequence Format

3.  The "+cbor-seq" Structured Syntax Suﬃx

4.  Practical Considerations

4.1.  Specifying CBOR Sequences in Concise Data Deﬁnition Language (CDDL)

4.2.  Diagnostic Notation

4.3.  Optimizing CBOR Sequences for Skipping Elements

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Media Type

6.2.  CoAP Content-Format Registration

6.3.  Structured Syntax Suﬃx

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

[RFC8259]

[RFC7049]
 data model or in its own, somewhat expanded, data model. When

The Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)
in the JSON
serializing a sequence of such values, it is sometimes convenient to have a format where these
sequences can simply be concatenated to obtain a serialization of the concatenated sequence of
values or to encode a sequence of values that might grow at the end by just appending further
CBOR data items.

 can be used for serialization of data

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8742

CBOR Sequences

February 2020

This document describes the concept and format of "CBOR Sequences", which are composed of
zero or more encoded CBOR data items. CBOR Sequences can be consumed (and produced)
incrementally without requiring a streaming CBOR parser that is able to deliver substructures of
a data item incrementally (or a streaming encoder able to encode from substructures
incrementally).

This document deﬁnes and registers the "application/cbor-seq" media type in the "Media Types"
registry along with a Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) Content-Format identiﬁer. Media
type structured syntax suﬃxes
that it is based on another media type as its foundation. CBOR
structured syntax suﬃx. This document deﬁnes and registers the "+cbor-seq" structured syntax
suﬃx in the "Structured Syntax Suﬃx Registry".

 were introduced as a way for a media type to signal
[RFC7049]

 deﬁnes the "+cbor"

[RFC6838]

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

In this speciﬁcation, the term "byte" is used in its now-customary sense as a synonym for "octet".

2.  CBOR Sequence Format

Formally, a CBOR Sequence is a sequence of bytes that is recursively deﬁned as either of the
following:

•

an empty (zero-length) sequence of bytes

•

the sequence of bytes making up an encoded CBOR data item
Sequence.

[RFC7049]

 followed by a CBOR

In short, concatenating zero or more encoded CBOR data items generates a CBOR Sequence.
(Consequently, concatenating zero or more CBOR Sequences also results in a CBOR Sequence.)

There is no end-of-sequence indicator. (If one is desired, CBOR encoding an array of the CBOR
data model values being encoded, employing either a deﬁnite or an indeﬁnite length encoding, as
a single CBOR data item may actually be the more appropriate representation.)

CBOR Sequences, unlike JSON Text Sequences
This is possible because CBOR-encoded data items are self delimiting and the end can always be
calculated. (Note that, while the early object/array-only form of JSON was self delimiting as well,
this stopped being the case when simple values such as single numbers were made valid JSON
documents.)

, do not use a marker between items.

[RFC7464]

Decoding a CBOR Sequence works as follows:

•

If the CBOR Sequence is an empty sequence of bytes, the result is an empty sequence of CBOR
data model values.

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8742

CBOR Sequences

February 2020

•

Otherwise, one must decode a single CBOR data item from the bytes of the CBOR Sequence
and insert the resulting CBOR data model value at the start of the result of repeating this
decoding process recursively with the remaining bytes. (A streaming decoder would
therefore simply deliver zero or more CBOR data model values, each as soon as the bytes
making it up are available.)

This means that if any data item in the sequence is not well formed, it is not possible to reliably
decode the rest of the sequence. (An implementation may be able to recover from some errors in
a sequence of bytes that is almost, but not entirely, a well-formed encoded CBOR data item.
Handling malformed data is outside the scope of this speciﬁcation.)

This also means that the CBOR Sequence format can reliably detect truncation of the bytes
making up the last CBOR data item in the sequence, but it cannot detect entirely missing CBOR
data items at the end. A CBOR Sequence decoder that is used for consuming streaming CBOR
Sequence data may simply pause for more data (e.g., by suspending and later resuming
decoding) in case a truncated ﬁnal item is being received.

3.  The "+cbor-seq" Structured Syntax Suﬃx

 be used by a media type when the result of parsing the bytes of the media type object as

The use case for the "+cbor-seq" structured syntax suﬃx is analogous to that for "+cbor": it
SHOULD
a CBOR Sequence is meaningful and is at least sometimes not just a single CBOR data item.
(Without the qualiﬁcation at the end, this sentence is trivially true for any +cbor media type,
which of course should continue to use the "+cbor" structured syntax suﬃx.)

Applications encountering a "+cbor-seq" media type can then either simply use generic
processing if all they need is a generic view of the CBOR Sequence or use generic CBOR Sequence
tools for initial parsing and then implement their own speciﬁc processing on top of that generic
parsing tool.

4.  Practical Considerations

4.1.  Specifying CBOR Sequences in Concise Data Deﬁnition Language
(CDDL)

In Concise Data Deﬁnition Language (CDDL)
as contents of byte strings using the .cborseq control operator (
employing an array as the controller type:

[RFC8610]

, CBOR Sequences are already supported

Section 3.8.4 of [RFC8610]

) by

my-embedded-cbor-seq = bytes .cborseq my-array
my-array = [* my-element]
my-element = my-foo / my-bar

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8742

CBOR Sequences

February 2020

Currently, CDDL does not provide for unadorned CBOR Sequences as a top-level subject of a
speciﬁcation. For now, the suggestion is to use an array for the top-level rule, as is used for the
.cborseq control operator, and add English text that explains that the speciﬁcation is really
about a CBOR Sequence with the elements of the array:

; This defines an array, the elements of which are to be used
; in a CBOR Sequence:
my-sequence = [* my-element]
my-element = my-foo / my-bar

(Future versions of CDDL may provide a notation for top-level CBOR Sequences, e.g., by using a
group as the top-level rule in a CDDL speciﬁcation.)

4.2.  Diagnostic Notation

CBOR diagnostic notation (see
G of [RFC8610]
provide for CBOR Sequences embedded in a byte string as per

Appendix
) also does not provide for unadorned CBOR Sequences at this time (the latter does

) or extended diagnostic notation (

Appendix G.3 of [RFC8610]

).

Section 6 of [RFC7049]

In a similar spirit to the recommendation for CDDL above, this speciﬁcation recommends
enclosing the CBOR data items in an array. In a more informal setting, where the boundaries
within which the notation is used are obvious, it is also possible to leave oﬀ the outer brackets
for this array, as shown in these two examples:

[1, 2, 3]

1, 2, 3

Note that it is somewhat diﬃcult to discuss zero-length CBOR Sequences in the latter form.

4.3.  Optimizing CBOR Sequences for Skipping Elements

In certain applications, being able to eﬃciently skip an element without the need for decoding its
substructure, or eﬃciently fanning out elements to multi-threaded decoding processes, is of the
utmost importance. For these applications, byte strings (which carry length information in bytes)
containing embedded CBOR can be used as the elements of a CBOR Sequence:

; This defines an array of CBOR byte strings, the elements of which
; are to be used in a CBOR Sequence:
my-sequence = [* my-element]
my-element = bytes .cbor my-element-structure
my-element-structure = my-foo / my-bar

Within limits, this may also enable recovering from elements that internally are not well formed;
the limitation is that the sequence of byte strings does need to be well formed as such.

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8742

CBOR Sequences

February 2020

5.  Security Considerations

[RFC7049]

The security considerations of CBOR
integrity protection of any kind but can be combined with security speciﬁcations such as CBOR
Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)
entire CBOR Sequence or to each of the elements of the sequence independently; in the latter
case, additional eﬀort may be required if there is a need to protect the relationship of the
elements in the sequence.)

 apply. This format provides no cryptographic

 to do so. (COSE protections can be applied to an

[RFC8152]

As usual, decoders must operate on input that is assumed to be untrusted. This means that
decoders

 fail gracefully in the face of malicious inputs.

MUST

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Media Type

[IANA-MEDIA-TYPES]
Media types are registered in the "Media Types" registry
registered the media type for CBOR Sequence, application/cbor-seq, as follows:

. IANA has

Type name: application

Subtype name: cbor-seq

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

Encoding considerations: binary

Security considerations: See RFC 8742, Section 5.

Interoperability considerations: Described herein.

Published speciﬁcation: RFC 8742.

Applications that use this media type: Data serialization and deserialization.

Fragment identiﬁer considerations: N/A

Additional information:

•

Deprecated alias names for this type: N/A

•

Magic number(s): N/A

•

File extension(s): N/A

•

Macintosh ﬁle type code(s): N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

cbor@ietf.org

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8742

CBOR Sequences

February 2020

Intended usage: COMMON

Author: Carsten Bormann (cabo@tzi.org)

Change controller: IETF

6.2.  CoAP Content-Format Registration

IANA has assigned a CoAP Content-Format ID for the media type "application/cbor-seq", within
the "CoAP Content-Formats" subregistry of the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE)
Parameters" registry
, from the "Expert Review" (0-255) range
(
[RFC8126]

[IANA-CORE-PARAMETERS]
). The assigned ID is shown in Table 1.

Media type

Encoding

ID Reference

application/cbor-seq

-

63

RFC 8742

Table 1: CoAP Content-Format ID

6.3.  Structured Syntax Suﬃx

Structured Syntax Suﬃxes are registered within the "Structured Syntax Suﬃx Registry"
maintained at
structured syntax suﬃx in accordance with

[IANA-STRUCTURED-SYNTAX-SUFFIX]

. IANA has registered the "+cbor-seq"

 as follows:

[RFC6838]

Name: CBOR Sequence

+suﬃx: +cbor-seq

References: RFC 8742

Encoding considerations: binary

Fragment identiﬁer considerations: The syntax and semantics of fragment identiﬁers
speciﬁed for +cbor-seq
 be the same as that speciﬁed for "application/cbor-seq". (At
the time of publication of this document, there is no fragment identiﬁcation syntax deﬁned
for "application/cbor-seq".)

SHOULD

The syntax and semantics for fragment identiﬁers for a speciﬁc "xxx/yyy+cbor-seq"
SHOULD

 be processed as follows:

▪

▪

For cases deﬁned in +cbor-seq, if the fragment identiﬁer resolves per the +cbor-seq rules,
then process as speciﬁed in +cbor-seq.

For cases deﬁned in +cbor-seq, if the fragment identiﬁer does not resolve per the +cbor-
seq rules, then process as speciﬁed in "xxx/yyy+cbor-seq".

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8742

CBOR Sequences

February 2020

▪

For cases not deﬁned in +cbor-seq, process as speciﬁed in "xxx/yyy+cbor-seq".

Interoperability considerations: n/a

Security considerations: See RFC 8742, Section 5

Contact: CBOR WG mailing list (cbor@ietf.org), or any IESG-designated successor.

Author/Change controller: IETF

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[IANA-CORE-PARAMETERS]

IANA "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters"

,

,

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/core-parameters>

.

[IANA-MEDIA-TYPES]

IANA "Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types>

,

,

.

[IANA-STRUCTURED-SYNTAX-SUFFIX]

IANA "Structured Syntax Suﬃx Registry" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/media-type-structured-suﬃx>

.

[RFC2119]

[RFC7049]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Bormann, C. and P. Hoﬀman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
RFC 7049 DOI 10.17487/RFC7049
rfc7049>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2013,

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

7.2.  Informative References

Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen "Media Type Speciﬁcations and Registration
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, January 2013,

<https://

,

,

.

,

,

Williams, N. "JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Text Sequences" RFC 7464 DOI
10.17487/RFC7464

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7464>

, February 2015,

,

,

.

,

Wilde, E. "A Media Type Structured Syntax Suﬃx for JSON Text Sequences" RFC
,
8091 DOI 10.17487/RFC8091
rfc8091>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2017,

.

,

[RFC6838]

[RFC7464]

[RFC8091]

[RFC8126]

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8742

CBOR Sequences

February 2020

Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

[RFC8152]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8610]

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)" RFC 8152 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8152>
10.17487/RFC8152

, July 2017,

,

,

,

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

,

,

Birkholz, H., Vigano, C., and C. Bormann "Concise Data Deﬁnition Language
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

, June 2019,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

, which do a similar but slightly more complicated exercise for JSON

[RFC7464]

 by

Nico Williams

 and

[RFC8091]
.

[RFC8259]

 by

This document has mostly been generated from
Erik Wilde
Laurence Lundblade
document.

John Mattsson

Jim Schaad

 and

 raised an issue on the CBOR mailing list that pointed out the need for this

 provided helpful comments.

Author's Address

Carsten Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-421-218-63921
 cabo@tzi.org

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 10

