Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8950
5549
Standards Track
November 2020
2070-1721
S. Litkowski
Cisco

S. Agrawal
Cisco

K. Ananthamurthy
Cisco

K. Patel
Arrcus

RFC 8950
Advertising IPv4 Network Layer Reachability
Information (NLRI) with an IPv6 Next Hop

Abstract

Multiprotocol BGP (MP-BGP) speciﬁes that the set of usable next-hop address families is
determined by the Address Family Identiﬁer (AFI) and the Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁer
(SAFI). The AFI/SAFI deﬁnitions for the IPv4 address family only have provisions for advertising
a next-hop address that belongs to the IPv4 protocol when advertising IPv4 Network Layer
Reachability Information (NLRI) or VPN-IPv4 NLRI.

This document speciﬁes the extensions necessary to allow the advertising of IPv4 NLRI or VPN-
IPv4 NLRI with a next-hop address that belongs to the IPv6 protocol. This comprises an extension
of the AFI/SAFI deﬁnitions to allow the address of the next hop for IPv4 NLRI or VPN-IPv4 NLRI
to also belong to the IPv6 protocol, the encoding of the next hop to determine which of the
protocols the address actually belongs to, and a BGP Capability allowing MP-BGP peers to
dynamically discover whether they can exchange IPv4 NLRI and VPN-IPv4 NLRI with an IPv6
next hop. This document obsoletes RFC 5549.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8950

.

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8950

Advertising IPv4 Reachability with IPv6

November 2020

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Changes Compared to RFC 5549

3.  Extension of AFI/SAFI Deﬁnitions for the IPv4 Address Family

4.  Use of BGP Capability Advertisement

5.  Operations

6.  Usage Examples

6.1.  IPv4 over IPv6 Core

6.2.  IPv4 VPN Unicast over IPv6 Core

6.3.  IPv4 VPN Multicast over IPv6 Core

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8950

Advertising IPv4 Reachability with IPv6

November 2020

1.  Introduction

[RFC4760]

 speciﬁes that the set of network-layer protocols to which

Multiprotocol BGP (MP-BGP)
the address carried in the Next Hop Address ﬁeld may belong is determined by the Address
Family Identiﬁer (AFI) and the Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁer (SAFI). A number of existing
AFIs/SAFIs allow the next-hop address to belong to a diﬀerent address family than the Network
Layer Reachability Information (NLRI). For example, the AFI/SAFI <25/65> used (as per
) to perform Layer 2 Virtual Private Network (L2VPN) auto-discovery allows
[RFC6074]
advertising NLRI that contains the identiﬁer of a Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS) instance or
that identiﬁes a particular pool of attachment circuits at a given Provider Edge (PE), while the
Next Hop Address ﬁeld contains the loopback address of a PE. Similarly, the AFI/SAFI <1/132>
(deﬁned in
NLRI that contains such RT membership information, while the Next Hop Address ﬁeld contains
the address of the advertising router.

) to advertise Route Target (RT) membership information allows advertising

[RFC4684]

Furthermore, a number of these existing AFIs/SAFIs allow the next hop to belong to either the
IPv4 protocol or the IPv6 protocol and specify the encoding of the next-hop information to
determine which of the protocols the address actually belongs to. For example,
[RFC4684]
the next-hop address to be either an IPv4 or IPv6 address and states that the Next Hop Address
ﬁeld shall be interpreted as an IPv4 address whenever the length of the next-hop address is 4
octets and as an IPv6 address whenever the length of the next-hop address is 16 octets.

 allows

 and

[RFC4925]

There are situations such as those described in
 where carriers (or large
enterprise networks acting as a carrier for their internal resources) may be required to establish
connectivity between 'islands' of networks of one address family type across a transit core of a
diﬀering address family type. This includes both the case of IPv6 islands across an IPv4 core and
the case of IPv4 islands across an IPv6 core. Where Multiprotocol BGP (MP-BGP) is used to
advertise the corresponding reachability information, this translates into the requirement for a
BGP speaker to advertise the NLRI of a given address family via a next hop of a diﬀerent address
family (i.e., IPv6 NLRI with an IPv4 next hop and IPv4 NLRI with an IPv6 next hop).

[RFC5565]

The AFI/SAFI deﬁnitions for the IPv6 address family assume that the next-hop address belongs to
the IPv6 address family type. Speciﬁcally, as per
is <2/1>, <2/2>, or <2/4>, the next-hop address is assumed to be of an IPv6 type. As per
when the <AFI/SAFI> is <2/128>, the next-hop address is assumed to be of a VPN-IPv6 type.

, when the <AFI/SAFI>
,
[RFC4659]

[RFC8277]

[RFC2545]

 and

 and

[RFC4798]

[RFC4659]

However,
 specify how an IPv4 address can be encoded inside the next-
hop IPv6 address ﬁeld when IPv6 NLRI needs to be advertised with an IPv4 next hop.
[RFC4798]
deﬁnes how the IPv4-mapped IPv6 address format speciﬁed in the IPv6 addressing architecture
(
) can be used for that purpose when the <AFI/SAFI> is <2/1>, <2/2>, or <2/4>.
[RFC4291]
[RFC4659]
deﬁnes how the IPv4-mapped IPv6 address format as well as a null Route Distinguisher (RD) can
be used for that purpose when the <AFI/SAFI> is <2/128>. Thus, there are existing solutions for
the advertisement of IPv6 NLRI with an IPv4 next hop.

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8950

Advertising IPv4 Reachability with IPv6

November 2020

[RFC8277]

Similarly, the AFI/SAFI deﬁnitions for the advertisement of IPv4 NLRI or VPN-IPv4 NLRI assume
[RFC4760]
that the next-hop address belongs to the IPv4 address family type. Speciﬁcally, as per
, when the <AFI/SAFI> is <1/1>, <1/2>, or <1/4>, the next-hop address is assumed to
and
be of an IPv4 type. As per
assumed to be of a VPN-IPv4 type. As per
<1/129>, the next-hop address is assumed to be of a VPN-IPv4 type. There is clearly no generally
applicable method for encoding an IPv6 address inside the IPv4 address ﬁeld of the next hop.
Hence, there is currently no speciﬁed solution for advertising IPv4 or VPN-IPv4 NLRI with an
IPv6 next hop.

, when the <AFI/SAFI> is <1/128>, the next-hop address is

, when the <AFI/SAFI> is

[RFC6514]

[RFC4364]

[RFC6513]

 and

This document speciﬁes the extensions necessary to allow advertisement of IPv4 NLRI or VPN-
IPv4 NLRI with a next-hop address that belongs to the IPv6 protocol. This comprises an extension
of the AFI/SAFI deﬁnitions to allow the address of the next hop for IPv4 NLRI or VPN-IPv4 NLRI
to belong to either the IPv4 or the IPv6 protocol, the encoding of the next-hop information to
determine which of the protocols the address actually belongs to, and a BGP Capability allowing
MP-BGP peers to dynamically discover whether they can exchange IPv4 NLRI and VPN-IPv4 NLRI
with an IPv6 next hop. The BGP Capability allows gradual deployment of the functionality of
advertising IPv4 reachability via an IPv6 next hop without any ﬂag day nor any risk of traﬃc
black-holing.

This document obsoletes

[RFC5549]

.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Changes Compared to RFC 5549

This document introduces two signiﬁcant changes compared to

[RFC5549]
:

•

[RFC5549]

, when AFI/SAFI <1/128> is used, the next-hop address is encoded as an IPv6

In
address with a length of 16 or 32 bytes. To accommodate all existing implementations and
bring consistency with VPNv4oIPv4 and VPNv6oIPv6, this document modiﬁes how the next-
hop address is encoded. The next-hop address is now encoded as a VPN-IPv6 address with a
length of 24 or 48 bytes (see Sections 3 and 6.2). This change addresses Erratum ID 5253
[Err5253]
(
new proposed encoding, the change does not break existing interoperability.

). As all known and deployed implementations are interoperable today and use the

•

This document allows AFI/SAFI <1/129> (IPv4 multicast) to use an IPv6 underlay using
similar encoding and procedures to AFI/SAFI <1/128> (see Sections 3 and 6.3).

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8950

Advertising IPv4 Reachability with IPv6

November 2020

3.  Extension of AFI/SAFI Deﬁnitions for the IPv4 Address
Family

As mentioned earlier, MP-BGP speciﬁes that the set of usable next-hop address families is
determined by the AFI and the SAFI. The following AFI/SAFI deﬁnitions for the IPv4 NLRI or VPN-
IPv4 NLRI (<1/1>, <1/2>, <1/4>, <1/128>, and <1/129>) only have provisions for advertising a next-
hop address that belongs to the IPv4 protocol. This document extends the set of usable next-hop
address families to include IPv6 in addition to IPv4 when advertising an IPv4 or VPN-IPv4 NLRI.

Speciﬁcally, this document allows advertising the MP_REACH_NLRI attribute
content:

[RFC4760]

 with this

•

AFI = 1

•

SAFI = 1, 2, or 4

•

Length of Next Hop Address = 16 or 32

•

Next Hop Address = IPv6 address of a next hop (potentially followed by the link-local IPv6
address of the next hop). This ﬁeld is to be constructed as per

Section 3 of [RFC2545]

.

•

NLRI = NLRI as per the AFI/SAFI deﬁnition

It also allows advertising the MP_REACH_NLRI attribute

[RFC4760]

 with this content:

•

AFI = 1

•

SAFI = 128 or 129

•

Length of Next Hop Address = 24 or 48

•

Next Hop Address = VPN-IPv6 address of a next hop with an 8-octet RD set to zero
(potentially followed by the link-local VPN-IPv6 address of the next hop with an 8-octet RD
set to zero).

•

NLRI = NLRI as per the AFI/SAFI deﬁnition

This is in addition to the existing mode of operation allowing advertisement of NLRI for <AFI/
SAFI> of <1/1>, <1/2>, and <1/4> with a next-hop address of an IPv4 type and advertisement of
NLRI for an <AFI/SAFI> of <1/128> and <1/129> with a next-hop address of a VPN-IPv4 type.

The BGP speaker receiving the advertisement
determine which network-layer protocol the next-hop address belongs to.

MUST

 use the Length of Next Hop Address ﬁeld to

•

When the AFI/SAFI is <1/1>, <1/2>, or <1/4> and when the Length of Next Hop Address ﬁeld is
equal to 16 or 32, the next-hop address is of type IPv6.

•

When the AFI/SAFI is <1/128> or <1/129> and when the Length of Next Hop Address ﬁeld is
equal to 24 or 48, the next-hop address is of type VPN-IPv6.

Note that this method of using the Length of Next Hop Address ﬁeld to determine which
network-layer protocol the next-hop address belongs to (out of the set of protocols allowed by the
AFI/SAFI deﬁnition) is the same as that used in

.
[RFC6074]

[RFC4684]

 and

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8950

Advertising IPv4 Reachability with IPv6

November 2020

4.  Use of BGP Capability Advertisement

 deﬁnes a mechanism to allow two BGP speakers to discover if a particular capability is

[RFC5492]
supported by their BGP peer and, thus, whether it can be used with that peer. This document
deﬁnes a capability that can be advertised using
, referred to as the "Extended Next
Hop Encoding capability". This capability allows BGP speakers to discover whether, for a given
NLRI <AFI/SAFI>, a peer supports advertisement with a next hop whose network protocol is
determined by the value of the Length of Next Hop Address ﬁeld, as speciﬁed in Section 3.

[RFC5492]

A BGP speaker that wishes to advertise an IPv6 next hop for IPv4 NLRI or for VPN-IPv4 NLRI to a
 use the Capability Advertisement procedures deﬁned in
BGP peer as per this speciﬁcation
[RFC5492]
supports this for the NLRI AFI/SAFI pair(s) of interest. The ﬁelds in the Capabilities Optional
Parameter

 with the Extended Next Hop Encoding capability to determine whether its peer

 be set as follows:

MUST

MUST

•

The Capability Code ﬁeld
capability).

MUST

 be set to 5 (which indicates the Extended Next Hop Encoding

•

The Capability Length ﬁeld is set to a variable value that is the length of the Capability Value
ﬁeld (which follows).

•

The Capability Value ﬁeld has the following format:

         +-----------------------------------------------------+
         | NLRI AFI - 1 (2 octets)                             |
         +-----------------------------------------------------+
         | NLRI SAFI - 1 (2 octets)                            |
         +-----------------------------------------------------+
         | Nexthop AFI - 1 (2 octets)                          |
         +-----------------------------------------------------+
         | .....                                               |
         +-----------------------------------------------------+
         | NLRI AFI - N (2 octets)                             |
         +-----------------------------------------------------+
         | NLRI SAFI - N (2 octets)                            |
         +-----------------------------------------------------+
         | Nexthop AFI - N (2 octets)                          |
         +-----------------------------------------------------+

where:

◦

◦

each triple <NLRI AFI, NLRI SAFI, Nexthop AFI> indicates that the NLRI of <NLRI AFI /
NLRI SAFI> may be advertised with a next-hop address belonging to the network-layer
protocol of Nexthop AFI.

the AFI and SAFI values are deﬁned in the "Address Family Numbers" and "Subsequent
Address Family Identiﬁer (SAFI) Parameters" registries (see
,
[IANA-SAFI]
respectively).

[IANA-AFI]

 and

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8950

Advertising IPv4 Reachability with IPv6

November 2020

Since this document only concerns itself with the advertisement of IPv4 NLRI and VPN-IPv4 NLRI
with an IPv6 next hop, this speciﬁcation only allows the following values in the Capability Value
ﬁeld of the Extended Next Hop Encoding capability:

•

NLRI AFI = 1 (IPv4)

•

NLRI SAFI = 1, 2, 4, 128, or 129

•

Nexthop AFI = 2 (IPv6)

This document does not specify the use of the Extended Next Hop Encoding capability with any
other combinations of <NLRI AFI, NLRI SAFI, Nexthop AFI>. For example, the Next Hop Encoding
capability speciﬁed in this document is not intended to be used for NLRI AFIs/SAFIs whose
deﬁnition already allows use of both IPv4 and IPv6 next hops (e.g., AFI/SAFI = <1/132> as deﬁned
in
). Similarly, it is not intended that the Extended Next Hop Encoding capability be
used for NLRI AFIs/SAFIs for which there is already a solution for advertising a next hop of a
diﬀerent address family (e.g., AFI/SAFI = <2/1>, <2/2>, or <2/4> with an IPv4 next hop as per
[RFC4798]

 and AFI/SAFI = <2/128> with an IPv4 next hop as per

[RFC4684]

[RFC4659]

).

It is expected that if new AFIs/SAFIs are deﬁned in the future, their deﬁnitions will have
provisions (where appropriate) for both IPv4 and IPv6 next hops from the beginning, with the
determination based on the Length of Next Hop Address ﬁeld. Thus, new AFIs/SAFIs are not
expected to make use of the Extended Next Hop Encoding capability.

MUST

A BGP speaker
peer if the BGP speaker has ﬁrst ascertained via the BGP Capability Advertisement that the BGP
peer supports the Extended Next Hop Encoding capability for the relevant AFI/SAFI pair.

 only advertise the IPv4 or VPN-IPv4 NLRI with an IPv6 next hop to a BGP

The Extended Next Hop Encoding capability provides information about next-hop encoding for a
given AFI/SAFI, assuming that AFI/SAFI is allowed. It does not inﬂuence whether that AFI/SAFI is
indeed allowed. Whether an AFI/SAFI can be used between the BGP peers is purely determined
through the Multiprotocol Extensions capability deﬁned in

.
[RFC4760]

5.  Operations

By default, if a particular BGP session is running over IPvx (where IPvx is IPv4 or IPv6) and if the
BGP speaker sending an update is putting its own address in as the next hop, then the next-hop
address
 be speciﬁed as an IPvx address, using the encoding rules speciﬁed in the AFI/
SAFI deﬁnition of the NLRI being updated. This default behavior may be overridden by policy.

SHOULD

When a next-hop address needs to be passed along unchanged (e.g., as a Route Reﬂector (RR)
would do), its encoding
encoding (as determined by the BGP Capability Advertisement), then the NLRI in question cannot
be distributed to that client. For sound routing in certain scenarios, this will require that all the
RR clients be able to handle whatever encodings any of them may generate.

 be changed. If a particular RR client cannot handle that

MUST NOT

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8950

Advertising IPv4 Reachability with IPv6

November 2020

6.  Usage Examples

6.1.  IPv4 over IPv6 Core

The extensions deﬁned in this document may be used as discussed in
interconnection of IPv4 islands over an IPv6 backbone. In this application, Address Family
Border Routers (AFBRs; as deﬁned in
along with an IPv6 next hop.

) advertise IPv4 NLRI in the MP_REACH_NLRI

[RFC5565]

[RFC4925]

 for the

The MP_REACH_NLRI is encoded with:

•

AFI = 1

•

SAFI = 1

•

Length of Next Hop Address ﬁeld = 16 (or 32)

•

Next Hop Address = IPv6 address of the next hop

•

NLRI = IPv4 routes

During BGP Capability Advertisement, the PE routers would include the following ﬁelds in the
Capabilities Optional Parameter:

•

Capability Code set to "Extended Next Hop Encoding"

•

Capability Value containing <NLRI AFI=1, NLRI SAFI=1, Nexthop AFI=2>

6.2.  IPv4 VPN Unicast over IPv6 Core

The extensions deﬁned in this document may be used for support of IPv4 VPNs over an IPv6
backbone. In this application, PE routers would advertise VPN-IPv4 NLRI in the MP_REACH_NLRI
along with an IPv6 next hop.

The MP_REACH_NLRI is encoded with:

•

AFI = 1

•

SAFI = 128

•

Length of Next Hop Address ﬁeld = 24 (or 48)

•

Next Hop Address = VPN-IPv6 address of a next hop whose RD is set to zero

•

NLRI = IPv4-VPN routes

During BGP Capability Advertisement, the PE routers would include the following ﬁelds in the
Capabilities Optional Parameter:

•

Capability Code set to "Extended Next Hop Encoding"

•

Capability Value containing <NLRI AFI=1, NLRI SAFI=128, Nexthop AFI=2>

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8950

Advertising IPv4 Reachability with IPv6

November 2020

6.3.  IPv4 VPN Multicast over IPv6 Core

The extensions deﬁned in this document may be used for support of IPv4 multicast VPNs over an
IPv6 backbone. In this application, PE routers would advertise VPN-IPv4 NLRI in the
MP_REACH_NLRI along with an IPv6 next hop.

The MP_REACH_NLRI is encoded with:

•

AFI = 1

•

SAFI = 129

•

Length of Next Hop Address ﬁeld = 24 (or 48)

•

Next Hop Address = VPN-IPv6 address of a next hop whose RD is set to zero

•

NLRI = IPv4-VPN routes

During BGP Capability Advertisement, the PE routers would include the following ﬁelds in the
Capabilities Optional Parameter:

•

Capability Code set to "Extended Next Hop Encoding"

•

Capability Value containing <NLRI AFI=1, NLRI SAFI=129, Nexthop AFI=2>

7.  IANA Considerations

This document does not deﬁne any new code points from those included in

[RFC5549]
.

 added "Extended Next Hop Encoding" to the "Capability Codes" registry (

[RFC5549]
CODE]
to this document. The value allocated for this Capability Code is 5.

), which was created by

[RFC5492]

. IANA has updated the registration of that entry to refer

[IANA-CAP-

8.  Security Considerations

This document does not raise any additional security issues beyond those of BGP-4 and the
Multiprotocol Extensions for BGP-4. The same security mechanisms are applicable.

[RFC4272]

 discusses, BGP is vulnerable to traﬃc diversion attacks. The ability to

However, as
advertise an IPv6 next hop adds a new means by which an attacker could cause traﬃc to be
diverted from its normal path. Such an attack diﬀers from preexisting vulnerabilities in that
traﬃc could be forwarded to a distant target across an intervening network infrastructure (e.g.,
an IPv6 core), allowing an attack to potentially succeed more easily since less infrastructure
would have to be subverted. Potential consequences include "hijacking" of traﬃc or denial of
service.

Although not expected to be the typical case, the IPv6 address used as the BGP next-hop address
could be an IPv4-mapped IPv6 address (as deﬁned in
mechanisms potentially deployed by the network operator (such as security checks on a next-hop
address) also need to keep this case in mind.

). Conﬁguration of the security

[RFC4291]

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8950

Advertising IPv4 Reachability with IPv6

November 2020

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2545]

[RFC4291]

[RFC4364]

[RFC4760]

[RFC5492]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8277]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Marques, P. and F. Dupont "Use of BGP-4 Multiprotocol Extensions for IPv6
,
Inter-Domain Routing" RFC 2545 DOI 10.17487/RFC2545
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2545>

, March 1999,

,

,

<https://

Hinden, R. and S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI
10.17487/RFC4291

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>

,
, February 2006,

,

Rosen, E. and Y. Rekhter "BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
4364 DOI 10.17487/RFC4364
rfc4364>

, February 2006,

.

,

,

Bates, T., Chandra, R., Katz, D., and Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>

<https://www.rfc-

, January 2007,

,

,

.

,

Scudder, J. and R. Chandra "Capabilities Advertisement with BGP-4" RFC 5492
DOI 10.17487/RFC5492
rfc5492>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2009,

.

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,
Rosen, E. "Using BGP to Bind MPLS Labels to Address Preﬁxes" RFC 8277 DOI
10.17487/RFC8277

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8277>

, October 2017,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[Err5253]

[IANA-AFI]

RFC Errata Erratum ID 5253 RFC 5549 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid5253>

,

,

,

.

,

IANA "Address Family Numbers" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/address-
family-numbers/>

.

,

[IANA-CAP-CODE]

IANA "Capability Codes" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/capability-

,

,

codes/>

.

[IANA-SAFI]

,

IANA "Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁers (SAFI) Parameters" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/saﬁ-namespace/>

.

,

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8950

Advertising IPv4 Reachability with IPv6

November 2020

[RFC4272]

[RFC4659]

[RFC4684]

[RFC4798]

[RFC4925]

[RFC5549]

[RFC5565]

[RFC6074]

[RFC6513]

[RFC6514]

Murphy, S. "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis" RFC 4272 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4272

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>

, January 2006,

,

,

,

.

De Clercq, J., Ooms, D., Carugi, M., and F. Le Faucheur "BGP-MPLS IP Virtual
Private Network (VPN) Extension for IPv6 VPN" RFC 4659 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4659

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4659>

, September 2006,

,

,

.

Marques, P., Bonica, R., Fang, L., Martini, L., Raszuk, R., Patel, K., and J. Guichard
,
"Constrained Route Distribution for Border Gateway Protocol/MultiProtocol
Label Switching (BGP/MPLS) Internet Protocol (IP) Virtual Private Networks
(VPNs)" RFC 4684 DOI 10.17487/RFC4684
<https://www.rfc-
editor.org/info/rfc4684>

, November 2006,

,

,

.

De Clercq, J., Ooms, D., Prevost, S., and F. Le Faucheur "Connecting IPv6 Islands
over IPv4 MPLS Using IPv6 Provider Edge Routers (6PE)" RFC 4798 DOI
10.17487/RFC4798

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4798>

, February 2007,

,

,

,

.

Li, X., Ed., Dawkins, S., Ed., Ward, D., Ed., and A. Durand, Ed. "Softwire Problem
Statement" RFC 4925 DOI 10.17487/RFC4925
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc4925>

<https://www.rfc-

, July 2007,

,

.

Le Faucheur, F. and E. Rosen "Advertising IPv4 Network Layer Reachability
Information with an IPv6 Next Hop" RFC 5549 DOI 10.17487/RFC5549
, May
,
2009,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5549>
.

,

Wu, J., Cui, Y., Metz, C., and E. Rosen "Softwire Mesh Framework" RFC 5565 DOI
10.17487/RFC5565

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5565>

, June 2009,

.

,

,

,

Rosen, E., Davie, B., Radoaca, V., and W. Luo "Provisioning, Auto-Discovery, and
Signaling in Layer 2 Virtual Private Networks (L2VPNs)" RFC 6074 DOI
10.17487/RFC6074

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6074>

, January 2011,

,

,

.

,

Rosen, E., Ed. and R. Aggarwal, Ed. "Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6513
DOI 10.17487/RFC6513
rfc6513>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2012,

.

,

,

,

Aggarwal, R., Rosen, E., Morin, T., and Y. Rekhter "BGP Encodings and
Procedures for Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6514 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6514

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6514>

, February 2012,

,
,

,

.

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
[RFC5549]
.

Francois Le Faucheur

 and

Eric Rosen

 for their work on

The authors would like to thank
contributions to the approach deﬁned in

.
[RFC5549]

,
Yakov Rekhter Pranav Mehta

, and

John Scudder

 for their

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8950

Advertising IPv4 Reachability with IPv6

November 2020

Authors' Addresses

Stephane Litkowski
Cisco
Email:

 slitkows@cisco.com

Swadesh Agrawal
Cisco
Email:

 swaagraw@cisco.com

Krishna Muddenahally Ananthamurthy
Cisco
Email:

 kriswamy@cisco.com

Keyur Patel
Arrcus
Email:

 keyur@arrcus.com

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

