Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8828
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
J. Uberti
Google

G. Shieh

RFC 8828
WebRTC IP Address Handling Requirements

Abstract

This document provides information and requirements for how IP addresses should be handled
by Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) implementations.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8828

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Uberti & Shieh

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8828

WebRTC IP Handling

January 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Problem Statement

4.  Goals

5.  Detailed Design

5.1.  Principles

5.2.  Modes and Recommendations

6.  Implementation Guidance

6.1.  Ensuring Normal Routing

6.2.  Determining Associated Local Addresses

7.  Application Guidance

8.  Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

One of WebRTC's key features is its support of peer-to-peer connections. However, when
establishing such a connection, which involves connection attempts from various IP addresses,
WebRTC may allow a web application to learn additional information about the user compared
to an application that only uses the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
. This may be
[RFC7230]
problematic in certain cases. This document summarizes the concerns and makes
recommendations on how WebRTC implementations should best handle the trade-oﬀ between
privacy and media performance.

Uberti & Shieh

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8828

WebRTC IP Handling

January 2021

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Problem Statement

In order to establish a peer-to-peer connection, WebRTC implementations use Interactive
Connectivity Establishment (ICE)
techniques such as Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN)
Relays around NAT (TURN)
remote-address pair in order to select the best one. The addresses that are collected usually
consist of an endpoint's private physical or virtual addresses and its public Internet addresses.

 and Traversal Using
 and then checks the connectivity of each local-address-

. ICE attempts to discover multiple IP addresses using

[RFC8445]

[RFC5389]

[RFC5766]

These addresses are provided to the web application so that they can be communicated to the
remote endpoint for its checks. This allows the application to learn more about the local network
conﬁguration than it would from a typical HTTP scenario, in which the web server would only
see a single public Internet address, i.e., the address from which the HTTP request was sent.

The additional information revealed falls into three categories:

1.

If the client is multihomed, additional public IP addresses for the client can be learned. In
particular, if the client tries to hide its physical location through a Virtual Private Network
(VPN), and the VPN and local OS support routing over multiple interfaces (a "split-tunnel"
VPN), WebRTC can discover not only the public address for the VPN, but also the ISP public
address over which the VPN is running.

2.

3.

If the client is behind a Network Address Translator (NAT), the client's private IP addresses,
often

 addresses, can be learned.

[RFC1918]

), but direct access to the Internet is permitted, WebRTC's STUN checks

If the client is behind a proxy (a client-conﬁgured "classical application proxy", as deﬁned in
[RFC1919], Section 3
will bypass the proxy and reveal the public IP address of the client. This concern also applies
to the "enterprise TURN server" scenario described in
 if, as above,
direct Internet access is permitted. However, when the term "proxy" is used in this
document, it is always in reference to an

[RFC7478], Section 2.3.5.1

 proxy server.

[RFC1919]

Of these three concerns, the ﬁrst is the most signiﬁcant, because for some users, the purpose of
using a VPN is for anonymity. However, diﬀerent VPN users will have diﬀerent needs, and some
VPN users (e.g., corporate VPN users) may in fact prefer WebRTC to send media traﬃc directly --
i.e., not through the VPN.

The second concern is less signiﬁcant but valid nonetheless. The core issue is that web
applications can learn about addresses that are not exposed to the Internet; typically, these
address are IPv4, but they can also be IPv6, as in the case of NAT64

[RFC6146]

. While disclosure

Uberti & Shieh

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8828

WebRTC IP Handling

January 2021

[RFC4941]

 IPv6 addresses recommended by

of the
intentionally short lifetimes, IPv4 addresses present some challenges. Although private IPv4
addresses often contain minimal entropy (e.g., 192.168.0.2, a fairly common address), in the
worst case, they can contain 24 bits of entropy with an indeﬁnite lifetime. As such, they can be a
fairly signiﬁcant ﬁngerprinting surface. In addition, intranet web sites can be attacked more
easily when their IPv4 address range is externally known.

 is fairly benign due to their

[RFC8835]

Private IP addresses can also act as an identiﬁer that allows web applications running in isolated
browsing contexts (e.g., normal and private browsing) to learn that they are running on the same
device. This could allow the application sessions to be correlated, defeating some of the privacy
protections provided by isolation. It should be noted that private addresses are just one potential
mechanism for this correlation and this is an area for further study.

The third concern is the least common, as proxy administrators can already control this behavior
through organizational ﬁrewall policy, and generally, forcing WebRTC traﬃc through a proxy
server will have negative eﬀects on both the proxy and media quality.

Note also that these concerns predate WebRTC; Adobe Flash Player has provided similar
functionality since the introduction of Real-Time Media Flow Protocol (RTMFP) support
[RFC7016]

 in 2008.

4.  Goals

WebRTC's support of secure peer-to-peer connections facilitates deployment of decentralized
systems, which can have privacy beneﬁts. As a result, blunt solutions that disable WebRTC or
make it signiﬁcantly harder to use are undesirable. This document takes a more nuanced
approach, with the following goals:

•

Provide a framework for understanding the problem so that controls might be provided to
make diﬀerent trade-oﬀs regarding performance and privacy concerns with WebRTC.

•

Using that framework, deﬁne settings that enable peer-to-peer communications, each with a
diﬀerent balance between performance and privacy.

•

Finally, provide recommendations for default settings that provide reasonable performance
without also exposing addressing information in a way that might violate user expectations.

5.  Detailed Design

5.1.  Principles

The key principles for our framework are stated below:

1.

By default, WebRTC traﬃc should follow typical IP routing (i.e., WebRTC should use the same
interface used for HTTP traﬃc) and only the system's 'typical' public addresses (or those of
an enterprise TURN server, if present) should be visible to the application. However, in the
interest of optimal media quality, it should be possible to enable WebRTC to make use of all
network interfaces to determine the ideal route.

Uberti & Shieh

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8828

WebRTC IP Handling

January 2021

2.

By default, WebRTC should be able to negotiate direct peer-to-peer connections between
endpoints (i.e., without traversing a NAT or relay server) when such connections are
possible. This ensures that applications that need true peer-to-peer routing for bandwidth or
latency reasons can operate successfully.

3.

It should be possible to conﬁgure WebRTC to not disclose private local IP addresses, to avoid
the issues associated with web applications learning such addresses. This document does not
require this to be the default state, as there is no currently deﬁned mechanism that can
satisfy this requirement as well as the aforementioned requirement to allow direct peer-to-
peer connections.

4.

By default, WebRTC traﬃc should not be sent through proxy servers, due to the media-
quality problems associated with sending WebRTC traﬃc over TCP, which is almost always
used when communicating with such proxies, as well as proxy performance issues that may
result from proxying WebRTC's long-lived, high-bandwidth connections. However, it should
be possible to force WebRTC to send its traﬃc through a conﬁgured proxy if desired.

5.2.  Modes and Recommendations

Based on these ideas, we deﬁne four speciﬁc modes of WebRTC behavior, reﬂecting diﬀerent
media quality/privacy trade-oﬀs:

Mode 1 - Enumerate all addresses:

MUST

 use all network interfaces to attempt communication with STUN servers, TURN

WebRTC
servers, or peers. This will converge on the best media path and is ideal when media
performance is the highest priority, but it discloses the most information.

Mode 2 - Default route + associated local addresses:

MUST

 follow the kernel routing table rules, which will typically cause media packets

WebRTC
to take the same route as the application's HTTP traﬃc. If an enterprise TURN server is
present, the preferred route
chosen, the private IPv4 and IPv6 addresses associated with this interface
and provided to the application as host candidates. This ensures that direct connections can
still be established in this mode.

 be through this TURN server. Once an interface has been

 be discovered

MUST

MUST

Mode 3 - Default route only:

This is the same as Mode 2, except that the associated private addresses
provided; the only IP addresses gathered are those discovered via mechanisms like STUN and
TURN (on the default route). This may cause traﬃc to hairpin through a NAT, fall back to an
application TURN server, or fail altogether, with resulting quality implications.

MUST NOT

 be

Mode 4 - Force proxy:

This is the same as Mode 3, but when the application's HTTP traﬃc is sent through a proxy,
WebRTC media traﬃc
for all HTTP and most SOCKS
support UDP proxying, the use of UDP will be disabled, and TCP will be used to send and

 also be proxied. If the proxy does not support UDP (as is the case

 proxies), or the WebRTC implementation does not

[RFC1928]

MUST

Uberti & Shieh

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8828

WebRTC IP Handling

January 2021

receive media through the proxy. Use of TCP will result in reduced media quality, in addition
to any performance considerations associated with sending all WebRTC media through the
proxy server.

MUST NOT

 be used unless user consent has been provided. The details of this consent are

Mode 1
left to the implementation; one potential mechanism is to tie this consent to getUserMedia
(device permissions) consent, described in
can provide a speciﬁc mechanism to obtain user consent.

. Alternatively, implementations

[RFC8827], Section 6.2

In cases where user consent has not been obtained, Mode 2

SHOULD

 be used.

These defaults provide a reasonable trade-oﬀ that permits trusted WebRTC applications to
achieve optimal network performance but gives applications without consent (e.g., 1-way
streaming or data-channel applications) only the minimum information needed to achieve direct
connections, as deﬁned in Mode 2. However, implementations
desired, e.g., if a user indicates they want all WebRTC traﬃc to follow the default route.

 choose stricter modes if

MAY

Future documents may deﬁne additional modes and/or update the recommended default modes.

Note that the suggested defaults can still be used even for organizations that want all external
WebRTC traﬃc to traverse a proxy or enterprise TURN server, simply by setting an
organizational ﬁrewall policy that allows WebRTC traﬃc to only leave through the proxy or
TURN server. This provides a way to ensure the proxy or TURN server is used for any external
traﬃc but still allows direct connections (and, in the proxy case, avoids the performance issues
associated with forcing media through said proxy) for intra-organization traﬃc.

6.  Implementation Guidance

This section provides guidance to WebRTC implementations on how to implement the policies
described above.

6.1.  Ensuring Normal Routing

When trying to follow typical IP routing, as required by Modes 2 and 3, the simplest approach is
to bind() the sockets used for peer-to-peer connections to the wildcard addresses (0.0.0.0 for IPv4,
:: for IPv6), which allows the OS to route WebRTC traﬃc the same way as it would HTTP traﬃc.
STUN and TURN will work as usual, and host candidates can still be determined as mentioned
below.

6.2.  Determining Associated Local Addresses

When binding to a wildcard address, some extra work is needed to determine the associated
local address required by Mode 2, which we deﬁne as the source address that would be used for
any packets sent to the web application host (assuming that UDP and TCP get the same routing
treatment). Use of the web-application host as a destination ensures the right source address is
selected, regardless of where the application resides (e.g., on an intranet).

Uberti & Shieh

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8828

WebRTC IP Handling

January 2021

First, the appropriate remote IPv4/IPv6 address is obtained by resolving the host component of
the web application URI
. If the client is behind a proxy and cannot resolve these IPs
via DNS, the address of the proxy can be used instead. Or, if the web application was loaded from
a ﬁle:// URI
[RFC8089]
known DNS name or IP address.

 rather than over the network, the implementation can fall back to a well-

[RFC3986]

Once a suitable remote IP has been determined, the implementation can create a UDP socket,
bind() it to the appropriate wildcard address, and then connect() to the remote IP. Generally, this
results in the socket being assigned a local address based on the kernel routing table, without
sending any packets over the network.

Finally, the socket can be queried using getsockname() or the equivalent to determine the
appropriate local address.

7.  Application Guidance

The recommendations mentioned in this document may cause certain WebRTC applications to
malfunction. In order to be robust in all scenarios, the following guidelines are provided for
applications:

•

SHOULD

Applications
 deploy a TURN server with support for both UDP and TCP connections
to the server. This ensures that connectivity can still be established, even when Mode 3 or 4
is in use, assuming the TURN server can be reached.

•

SHOULD

Applications
 detect when they don't have access to the full set of ICE candidates by
checking for the presence of host candidates. If no host candidates are present, Mode 3 or 4
is in use; this knowledge can be useful for diagnostic purposes.

8.  Security Considerations

This document describes several potential privacy and security concerns associated with
WebRTC peer-to-peer connections and provides mechanisms and recommendations for WebRTC
implementations to address these concerns.

9.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Uberti & Shieh

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8828

WebRTC IP Handling

January 2021

[RFC3986]

[RFC5389]

[RFC5766]

[RFC8089]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8445]

Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

, January 2005,

,

,

,

,

.

Rosenberg, J., Mahy, R., Matthews, P., and D. Wing "Session Traversal Utilities for
NAT (STUN)" RFC 5389 DOI 10.17487/RFC5389
,
editor.org/info/rfc5389>
.

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2008,

,

,

Mahy, R., Matthews, P., and J. Rosenberg "Traversal Using Relays around NAT
(TURN): Relay Extensions to Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN)" RFC
5766 DOI 10.17487/RFC5766
,
rfc5766>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, April 2010,

,

,

.

Kerwin, M. "The "ﬁle" URI Scheme" RFC 8089 DOI 10.17487/RFC8089
2017,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8089>

,

,

.

, February

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC1918]

[RFC1919]

[RFC1928]

[RFC4941]

[RFC6146]

[RFC7016]

Rekhter, Y., Moskowitz, B., Karrenberg, D., de Groot, G. J., and E. Lear "Address
Allocation for Private Internets" BCP 5 RFC 1918 DOI 10.17487/RFC1918
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1918>
February 1996,

,

,

,

.

,

Chatel, M. "Classical versus Transparent IP Proxies" RFC 1919 DOI 10.17487/
RFC1919

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1919>

, March 1996,

,

,

.

Leech, M., Ganis, M., Lee, Y., Kuris, R., Koblas, D., and L. Jones "SOCKS Protocol
,
Version 5" RFC 1928 DOI 10.17487/RFC1928
editor.org/info/rfc1928>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 1996,

,

.

,

Narten, T., Draves, R., and S. Krishnan "Privacy Extensions for Stateless Address
Autoconﬁguration in IPv6" RFC 4941 DOI 10.17487/RFC4941
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4941>

, September 2007,

,
,

,

.

Bagnulo, M., Matthews, P., and I. van Beijnum "Stateful NAT64: Network
Address and Protocol Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers" RFC 6146
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6146

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6146>

, April 2011,

,

,

,

Thornburgh, M. "Adobe's Secure Real-Time Media Flow Protocol" RFC 7016 DOI
10.17487/RFC7016

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7016>

, November 2013,

,

,

.

Uberti & Shieh

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8828

WebRTC IP Handling

January 2021

[RFC7230]

[RFC7478]

[RFC8827]

[RFC8835]

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Message Syntax and Routing" RFC 7230 DOI 10.17487/RFC7230
, June 2014,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7230>

.

,

,

Holmberg, C., Hakansson, S., and G. Eriksson "Web Real-Time Communication
,
Use Cases and Requirements" RFC 7478 DOI 10.17487/RFC7478
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7478>

, March 2015,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. "WebRTC Security Architecture" RFC 8827 DOI 10.17487/RFC8827
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8827>

,

,

,

,
Alvestrand, H. "Transports for WebRTC" RFC 8835 DOI 10.17487/RFC8835
January 2021,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8835>

.

,

,

,

Acknowledgements

Several people provided input into this document, including
Youenn Fablet Ted Hardie Matthew Kaufmann Eric Rescorla Adam Roach
Thomson

,
Bernard Aboba Harald Alvestrand
,
, and

Martin

,

,

,

.

,

Authors' Addresses

Justin Uberti
Google
747 6th St S
Kirkland WA 98033
,
United States of America
Email:

 justin@uberti.name

Guo-wei Shieh
333 Elliott Ave W #500
Seattle WA 98119
United States of America
Email:

,

 guoweis@gmail.com

Uberti & Shieh

Standards Track

Page 9

