Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8824
Standards Track
June 2021
2070-1721
A. Minaburo
Acklio

L. Toutain
IMT Atlantique

R. Andreasen
Universidad de Buenos Aires

RFC 8824
Static Context Header Compression (SCHC) for the
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)

Abstract

This document deﬁnes how to compress Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) headers using
the Static Context Header Compression and fragmentation (SCHC) framework. SCHC deﬁnes a
header compression mechanism adapted for Constrained Devices. SCHC uses a static description
of the header to reduce the header's redundancy and size. While RFC 8724 describes the SCHC
compression and fragmentation framework, and its application for IPv6/UDP headers, this
document applies SCHC to CoAP headers. The CoAP header structure diﬀers from IPv6 and UDP,
since CoAP uses a ﬂexible header with a variable number of options, themselves of variable
length. The CoAP message format is asymmetric: the request messages have a header format
diﬀerent from the format in the response messages. This speciﬁcation gives guidance on
applying SCHC to ﬂexible headers and how to leverage the asymmetry for more eﬃcient
compression Rules.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8824

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

2.  SCHC Applicability to CoAP

3.  CoAP Headers Compressed with SCHC

3.1.  Diﬀerences between CoAP and UDP/IP Compression

4.  Compression of CoAP Header Fields

4.1.  CoAP Version Field

4.2.  CoAP Type Field

4.3.  CoAP Code Field

4.4.  CoAP Message ID Field

4.5.  CoAP Token Fields

5.  CoAP Options

5.1.  CoAP Content and Accept Options

5.2.  CoAP Option Max-Age, Uri-Host, and Uri-Port Fields

5.3.  CoAP Option Uri-Path and Uri-Query Fields

5.3.1.  Variable Number of Path or Query Elements

5.4.  CoAP Option Size1, Size2, Proxy-URI, and Proxy-Scheme Fields

5.5.  CoAP Option ETag, If-Match, If-None-Match, Location-Path, and Location-Query Fields

6.  SCHC Compression of CoAP Extensions

6.1.  Block

6.2.  Observe

6.3.  No-Response

6.4.  OSCORE

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

7.  Examples of CoAP Header Compression

7.1.  Mandatory Header with CON Message

7.2.  OSCORE Compression

7.3.  Example OSCORE Compression

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10. Normative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)
designed for microcontrollers with small RAM and ROM and optimized for services based on
REST (Representational State Transfer). Although the Constrained Devices are a leading factor in
the design of CoAP, a CoAP header's size is still too large for LPWANs (Low-Power Wide-Area
Networks). Static Context Header Compression and fragmentation (SCHC) over CoAP headers is
required to increase performance or to use CoAP over LPWAN technologies.

 is a command/response protocol

[RFC7252]

 deﬁnes the SCHC framework, which includes a header compression mechanism for
Section 5 of [RFC8724]

[RFC8724]
LPWANs that is based on a static context.
decompression occur in the architecture. The SCHC compression scheme assumes as a
prerequisite that both endpoints know the static context before transmission. The way the
context is conﬁgured, provisioned, or exchanged is out of this document's scope.

 explains where compression and

CoAP is an application protocol, so CoAP compression requires installing common Rules between
the two SCHC instances. SCHC compression may apply at two diﬀerent levels: at IP and UDP in
the LPWAN and another at the application level for CoAP. These two compression techniques
may be independent. Both follow the same principle as that described in
entities manage the CoAP compression process at diﬀerent levels, the SCHC Rules driving the
compression/decompression are also diﬀerent.
UDP headers. This document speciﬁes how to apply SCHC compression to CoAP headers.

 describes how to use SCHC for IP and

. As diﬀerent

[RFC8724]

[RFC8724]

SCHC compresses and decompresses headers based on common contexts between Devices. The
SCHC context includes multiple Rules. Each Rule can match the header ﬁelds to speciﬁc values or
ranges of values. If a Rule matches, the matched header ﬁelds are replaced by the RuleID and the
Compression Residue that contains the residual bits of the compression. Thus, diﬀerent Rules
may correspond to diﬀerent protocol headers in the packet that a Device expects to send or
receive.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

. Thereby, each description contains the Field ID (FID), Field Length (FL), and Field

A Rule describes the packets' entire header with an ordered list of Field Descriptors; see
of [RFC8724]
Position (FP), as well as a Direction Indicator (DI) (upstream, downstream, and bidirectional) and
some associated Target Values (TVs). The DI is used for compression to give the best TV to the FID
when these values diﬀer in their transmission direction. So, a ﬁeld may be described several
times.

Section 7

A Matching Operator (MO) is associated with each header Field Descriptor. The Rule is selected if
all the MOs ﬁt the TVs for all ﬁelds of the incoming header. A Rule cannot be selected if the
message contains a ﬁeld that is unknown to the SCHC compressor.

In that case, a Compression/Decompression Action (CDA) associated with each ﬁeld gives the
method to compress and decompress each ﬁeld. Compression mainly results in one of four
actions:

•

send the ﬁeld value (value-sent),

•

send nothing (not-sent),

•

send some Least Signiﬁcant Bits (LSBs) of the ﬁeld, or

•

send an index (mapping-sent).

After applying the compression, there may be some bits to be sent. These values are called
"Compression Residue".

SCHC is a general mechanism applied to diﬀerent protocols, with the exact Rules to be used
depending on the protocol and the application.
compression scheme for IPv6 and UDP headers. This document targets CoAP header compression
using SCHC.

Section 10 of [RFC8724]

 describes the

1.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  SCHC Applicability to CoAP

SCHC compression for CoAP headers
UDP) or independently. The SCHC adaptation layers, described in
used as shown in Figures 1, 2, and 3.

MAY

 be done in conjunction with the lower layers (IPv6/

Section 5 of [RFC8724]

, may be

In the ﬁrst example, Figure 1, a Rule compresses the complete header stack from IPv6 to CoAP. In
this case, the Device and the Network Gateway (NGW) perform SCHC C/D (SCHC Compression/
Decompression; see
implement SCHC C/D.

). The application communicating with the Device does not

[RFC8724]

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

      (Device)            (NGW)                              (App)

      +--------+                                           +--------+
      |  CoAP  |                                           |  CoAP  |
      +--------+                                           +--------+
      |  UDP   |                                           |  UDP   |
      +--------+     +----------------+                    +--------+
      |  IPv6  |     |      IPv6      |                    |  IPv6  |
      +--------+     +--------+-------+                    +--------+
      |  SCHC  |     |  SCHC  |       |                    |        |
      +--------+     +--------+       +                    +        +
      |  LPWAN |     | LPWAN  |       |                    |        |
      +--------+     +--------+-------+                    +--------+
          ((((LPWAN))))             ------   Internet  ------

Figure 1: Compression/Decompression at the LPWAN Boundary

Figure 1 shows the use of SCHC header compression above Layer 2 in the Device and the NGW.
The SCHC layer receives non-encrypted packets and can apply compression Rules to all the
headers in the stack. On the other end, the NGW receives the SCHC packet and reconstructs the
headers using the Rule and the Compression Residue. After the decompression, the NGW
forwards the IPv6 packet toward the destination. The same process applies in the other direction
when a non-encrypted packet arrives at the NGW. Thanks to the IP forwarding based on the IPv6
preﬁx, the NGW identiﬁes the Device and compresses headers using the Device's Rules.

In the second example, Figure 2, SCHC compression is applied in the CoAP layer, compressing the
CoAP header independently of the other layers. The RuleID, Compression Residue, and CoAP
payload are encrypted using a mechanism such as DTLS. Only the other end (App) can decipher
the information. If needed, layers below use SCHC to compress the header as deﬁned in
[RFC8724]

 (represented by dotted lines in the ﬁgure).

This use case needs an end-to-end context initialization between the Device and the application.
The context initialization is out of scope for this document.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

      (Device)            (NGW)                               (App)

      +--------+                                           +--------+
      |  CoAP  |                                           |  CoAP  |
      +--------+                                           +--------+
      |  SCHC  |                                           |  SCHC  |
      +--------+                                           +--------+
      |  DTLS  |                                           |  DTLS  |
      +--------+                                           +--------+
      .  udp   .                                           .  udp   .
      ..........     ..................                    ..........
      .  ipv6  .     .      ipv6      .                    .  ipv6  .
      ..........     ..................                    ..........
      .  schc  .     .  schc  .       .                    .        .
      ..........     ..........       .                    .        .
      .  lpwan .     . lpwan  .       .                    .        .
      ..........     ..................                    ..........
          ((((LPWAN))))             ------   Internet  ------

Figure 2: Standalone CoAP End-to-End Compression/Decompression

The third example, Figure 3, shows the use of Object Security for Constrained RESTful
Environments (OSCORE)
header. A ﬁrst Rule focuses on the Inner header. The result of this ﬁrst compression is encrypted
using the OSCORE mechanism. Then, a second Rule compresses the Outer header, including the
OSCORE options.

. In this case, SCHC needs two Rules to compress the CoAP

[RFC8613]

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

      (Device)            (NGW)                              (App)

      +--------+                                           +--------+
      |  CoAP  |                                           |  CoAP  |
      |  Inner |                                           |  Inner |
      +--------+                                           +--------+
      |  SCHC  |                                           |  SCHC  |
      |  Inner |                                           |  Inner |
      +--------+                                           +--------+
      |  CoAP  |                                           |  CoAP  |
      |  Outer |                                           |  Outer |
      +--------+                                           +--------+
      |  SCHC  |                                           |  SCHC  |
      |  Outer |                                           |  Outer |
      +--------+                                           +--------+
      .  udp   .                                           .  udp   .
      ..........     ..................                    ..........
      .  ipv6  .     .      ipv6      .                    .  ipv6  .
      ..........     ..................                    ..........
      .  schc  .     .  schc  .       .                    .        .
      ..........     ..........       .                    .        .
      .  lpwan .     . lpwan  .       .                    .        .
      ..........     ..................                    ..........
          ((((LPWAN))))             ------   Internet  ------

Figure 3: OSCORE Compression/Decompression

In the case of several SCHC instances, as shown in Figures 2 and 3, the Rules may come from
diﬀerent provisioning domains.

This document focuses on CoAP compression, as represented by the dashed boxes in the previous
ﬁgures.

3.  CoAP Headers Compressed with SCHC

The use of SCHC over the CoAP header applies the same description and compression/
decompression techniques as the technique used for IP and UDP, as explained in
. For
CoAP, the SCHC Rules description uses the direction information to optimize the compression by
reducing the number of Rules needed to compress headers. The Field Descriptor
request/response headers and TVs in the same Rule, using the DI to indicate the header type.

[RFC8724]

 deﬁne both

MAY

As for other header compression protocols, when the compressor does not ﬁnd a correct Rule to
compress the header, the packet
 be sent uncompressed using the RuleID dedicated to this
purpose, and where the Compression Residue is the complete header of the packet. See
of [RFC8724]

Section 6

MUST

.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

3.1.  Diﬀerences between CoAP and UDP/IP Compression

CoAP compression diﬀers from IPv6 and UDP compression in the following aspects:

•

The CoAP message format is asymmetric; the headers are diﬀerent for a request or a
response. For example, the Uri-Path option is mandatory in the request, and it might not be
present in the response. A request might contain an Accept option, and the response might
include a Content-Format option. In comparison, the IPv6 and UDP returning path swaps the
value of some ﬁelds in the header. However, all the directions have the same ﬁelds (e.g.,
source and destination address ﬁelds).

[RFC8724]
process a message header diﬀerently, depending on the direction.

 deﬁnes the use of a DI in the Field Descriptor, which allows a single Rule to

•

Even when a ﬁeld is "symmetric" (i.e., found in both directions), the values carried in each
direction are diﬀerent. The compression may use a "match-mapping" MO to limit the range
of expected values in a particular direction and reduce the Compression Residue's size.
Through the DI, a Field Descriptor in the Rules splits the possible ﬁeld value into two parts,
one for each direction. For instance, if a client sends only Conﬁrmable (CON) requests
, the Type can be elided by compression, and the answer may use one single bit to
[RFC7252]
carry either the ACK or Reset (RST) type. The ﬁeld Code has the same behavior: the 0.0X code
format value in the request and the Y.ZZ code format in the response.

•

In SCHC, the Rule deﬁnes the diﬀerent header ﬁelds' length, so SCHC does not need to send it.
In IPv6 and UDP headers, the ﬁelds have a ﬁxed size, known by deﬁnition. On the other
hand, some CoAP header ﬁelds have variable lengths, and the Rule description speciﬁes it.
For example, in a Uri-Path or Uri-Query, the Token size may vary from 0 to 8 bytes, and the
CoAP options use the Type-Length-Value encoding format.

When doing SCHC compression of a variable-length ﬁeld,
the option of deﬁning a function for the Field Length in the Field Descriptor to know the
length before compression. If the Field Length is unknown, the Rule will set it as a variable,
and SCHC will send the compressed ﬁeld's length in the Compression Residue.

Section 7.4.2 of [RFC8724]

 oﬀers

•

A ﬁeld can appear several times in the CoAP headers. It is found typically for elements of a
URI (path or queries). The SCHC speciﬁcation
 allows a FID to appear several times
in the Rule and uses the Field Position (FP) to identify the correct instance, thereby removing
the MO's ambiguity.

[RFC8724]

•

Field Lengths deﬁned in CoAP can be too large when it comes to LPWAN traﬃc constraints.
For instance, this is particularly true for the Message ID ﬁeld and the Token ﬁeld. SCHC uses
diﬀerent MOs to perform the compression. See
can apply the Most Signiﬁcant Bits (MSBs) MO to reduce the information carried on LPWANs.

Section 7.4 of [RFC8724]

. In this case, SCHC

4.  Compression of CoAP Header Fields

This section discusses the compression of the diﬀerent CoAP header ﬁelds. CoAP compression
with SCHC follows the information provided in

Section 7.1 of [RFC8724]

.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

4.1.  CoAP Version Field

The CoAP version is bidirectional and
 be elided during SCHC compression, since it always
contains the same value. In the future, or if a new version of CoAP is deﬁned, new Rules will be
needed to avoid ambiguities between versions.

MUST

4.2.  CoAP Type Field

[RFC7252]

CoAP
one empty message (RST).

 has four types of messages: two requests (CON, NON), one response (ACK), and

The SCHC compression scheme
Non-conﬁrmable (NON) messages or only CON messages. For the RST message, SCHC may use a
dedicated Rule. For other usages, SCHC can use a "match-mapping" MO.

 elide this ﬁeld if, for instance, a client is sending only

SHOULD

4.3.  CoAP Code Field

[RFC7252]
The Code ﬁeld, deﬁned in an IANA registry
CoAP. The compression of the CoAP Code ﬁeld follows the same principle as that of the CoAP Type
ﬁeld. If the Device plays a speciﬁc role, SCHC may split the code values into two Field Descriptors:
(1) the request codes with the 0 class and (2) the response values. SCHC will use the DI to identify
the correct value in the packet.

, indicates the Request Method used in

If the Device only implements a CoAP client, SCHC compression may reduce the request code to
the set of requests the client can process.

For known values, SCHC can use a "match-mapping" MO. If SCHC cannot compress the Code ﬁeld,
it will send the values in the Compression Residue.

4.4.  CoAP Message ID Field

SCHC can compress the Message ID ﬁeld with the "MSB" MO and the "LSB" CDA. See
[RFC8724]
.

Section 7.4 of

4.5.  CoAP Token Fields

CoAP deﬁnes the Token using two CoAP ﬁelds: Token Length in the mandatory header and Token
Value directly following the mandatory CoAP header.

SCHC processes the Token Length as it would any header ﬁeld. If the value does not change, the
size can be stored in the TV and elided during the transmission. Otherwise, SCHC will send the
Token Length in the Compression Residue.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

MUST NOT

For the Token Value, SCHC
to avoid ambiguity with the Token Length. Therefore, SCHC
deﬁne the size of the Compression Residue. SCHC designates a speciﬁc function, "tkl", that the
Rule
the value contained in the Token Length ﬁeld.

 send it as variable-length data in the Compression Residue,
 use the Token Length value to

 use to complete the Field Descriptor. During the decompression, this function returns

MUST

MUST

5.  CoAP Options

[RFC7252]
CoAP deﬁnes options placed after the basic header, ordered by option number; see
.
Each Option instance in a message uses the format Delta-Type (D-T), Length (L), Value (V). The
SCHC Rule builds the description of the option by using the following:

•

in the FID: the option number built from the D-T;

•

in the TV: the option value; and

•

for the Option Length: the information provided in Sections 7.4.1 and 7.4.2 of

[RFC8724]

.

When the Option Length has a well-known size, the Rule may keep the length value. Therefore,
SCHC compression does not send it. Otherwise, SCHC compression carries the length of the
Compression Residue, in addition to the Compression Residue value.

CoAP requests and responses do not include the same options. So, compression Rules may reﬂect
this asymmetry by tagging the DI.

Note that length coding diﬀers between CoAP options and SCHC variable size Compression
Residue.

The following sections present how SCHC compresses some speciﬁc CoAP options.

MAY
 be assigned to allow its compression. Otherwise, if no Rule describes this new option, SCHC

If CoAP introduces a new option, the SCHC Rules
MUST
compression is not achieved, and SCHC sends the CoAP header without compression.

 be updated, and the new FID description

5.1.  CoAP Content and Accept Options

If the client expects a single value, it can be stored in the TV and elided during the transmission.
Otherwise, if the client expects several possible values, a "match-mapping" MO
 be used
SHOULD
to limit the Compression Residue's size. If not, SCHC has to send the option value in the
Compression Residue (ﬁxed or variable length).

5.2.  CoAP Option Max-Age, Uri-Host, and Uri-Port Fields

SCHC compresses these three ﬁelds in the same way. When the values of these options are
known, SCHC can elide these ﬁelds. If the option uses well-known values, SCHC can use a "match-
mapping" MO. Otherwise, SCHC will use the "value-sent" MO, and the Compression Residue will
send these options' values.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

5.3.  CoAP Option Uri-Path and Uri-Query Fields

The Uri-Path and Uri-Query ﬁelds are repeatable options; this means that in the CoAP header,
they may appear several times with diﬀerent values. The SCHC Rule description uses the FP to
distinguish the diﬀerent instances in the path.

To compress repeatable ﬁeld values, SCHC may use a "match-mapping" MO to reduce the size of
variable paths or queries. In these cases, to optimize the compression, several elements can be
regrouped into a single entry. The numbering of elements does not change, and the ﬁrst
matching element sets the MO comparison.

In Table 1, SCHC can use a single bit in the Compression Residue to code one of the two paths. If
regrouping were not allowed, 2 bits in the Compression Residue would be needed. SCHC sends
the third path element as a variable size in the Compression Residue.

Field

FL

FP

DI

TV

MO

CDA

Uri-Path

1

Up

["/a/b",
"/c/d"]

match-
mapping

mapping-sent

Uri-Path

var

3

Up

ignore

value-sent

Table 1: Complex Path Example

The length of Uri-Path and Uri-Query may be known when the Rule is deﬁned. In any case, SCHC
 set the Field Length to a variable value. The Compression Residue size is expressed in
MUST
bytes.

SCHC compression can use the MSB MO to a Uri-Path or Uri-Query element. However, attention
to the length is important because the MSB value is in bits, and the size
multiple of 8 bits.

 always be a

MUST

The length sent at the beginning of a variable-length Compression Residue indicates the LSB's
size in bytes.

For instance, for a CORECONF path /c/X6?k=eth0, the Rule description can be as follows (Table 2):

Field

FL

FP

DI

TV

MO

CDA

Uri-Path

Uri-Path

var

Uri-Query

var

1

2

1

Up

"c"

equal

not-sent

Up

ignore

value-sent

Up

"k=" MSB(16)

LSB

Table 2: CORECONF URI Compression

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

Table 2 shows the Rule description for a Uri-Path and a Uri-Query. SCHC compresses the ﬁrst part
of the Uri-Path with a "not-sent" CDA. SCHC will send the second element of the Uri-Path with the
length (i.e., 0x2 "X6") followed by the query option (i.e., 0x4 "eth0").

5.3.1.  Variable Number of Path or Query Elements

SCHC ﬁxed the number of Uri-Path or Uri-Query elements in a Rule at the Rule creation time. If
the number varies, SCHC

SHOULD

 either

•

create several Rules to cover all possibilities or

•

create a Rule that deﬁnes several entries for Uri-Path to cover the longest path and send a
Compression Residue with a length of 0 to indicate that a Uri-Path entry is empty.

However, this adds 4 bits to the variable Compression Residue size. See
[RFC8724]
.

Section 7.4.2 of

5.4.  CoAP Option Size1, Size2, Proxy-URI, and Proxy-Scheme Fields

The SCHC Rule description
the MO to "ignore", and the CDA to "value-sent". A Rule
when there are diﬀerent options for the same FID. Otherwise, the Rule sets the TV to the value,
the MO to "equal", and the CDA to "not-sent".

 deﬁne sending some ﬁeld values by setting the TV to "not-sent",

 also use a "match-mapping" MO

MAY

MAY

5.5.  CoAP Option ETag, If-Match, If-None-Match, Location-Path, and
Location-Query Fields

A Rule entry cannot store these ﬁelds' values. The Rule description
values in the Compression Residue.

MUST

 always send these

6.  SCHC Compression of CoAP Extensions

6.1.  Block

When a packet uses a Block option
Compression Residue. The SCHC Rule describes an empty TV with the MO set to "ignore" and the
CDA set to "value-sent". The Block option allows fragmentation at the CoAP level that is
compatible with SCHC fragmentation. Both fragmentation mechanisms are complementary, and
the node may use them for the same packet as needed.

 send its content in the

, SCHC compression

[RFC7959]

MUST

6.2.  Observe

 deﬁnes the Observe Option. The SCHC Rule description will not deﬁne the TV but will

[RFC7641]
set the MO to "ignore" and the CDA to "value-sent". SCHC does not limit the maximum size for this
option (3 bytes). To reduce the transmission size, either the Device implementation
 limit the
delta between two consecutive values or a proxy can modify the increment.

MAY

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

Since the Observe Option
require the Observe response, a speciﬁc SCHC Rule
compression with the RST type.

MAY

 use a RST message to inform a server that the client does not

SHOULD

 exist to allow the message's

6.3.  No-Response

 deﬁnes a No-Response option limiting the responses made by a server to a request.

[RFC7967]
Diﬀerent behaviors exist while using this option to limit the responses made by a server to a
request. If both ends know the value, then the SCHC Rule will describe a TV to this value, with the
MO set to "equal" and the CDA set to "not-sent".

Otherwise, if the value is changing over time, the SCHC Rule will set the MO to "ignore" and the
CDA to "value-sent". The Rule may also use a "match-mapping" MO to compress this option.

6.4.  OSCORE

OSCORE
SCHC Rules can be applied to compress OSCORE-protected messages.

 deﬁnes end-to-end protection for CoAP messages. This section describes how

[RFC8613]

Figure 4 shows the OSCORE option value encoding deﬁned in
ﬁrst byte speciﬁes the content of the OSCORE options using ﬂags. The three most signiﬁcant bits
of this byte are reserved and always set to 0. Bit h, when set, indicates the presence of the kid
context ﬁeld in the option. Bit k, when set, indicates the presence of a kid ﬁeld. The three least
signiﬁcant bits, n, indicate the length of the piv (Partial Initialization Vector) ﬁeld in bytes. When
n = 0, no piv is present.

Section 6.1 of [RFC8613]

, where the

      0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 <--------- n bytes ------------->
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+---------------------------------
     |0 0 0|h|k|  n  |      Partial IV (if any) ...
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+---------------------------------
     |               |                                |
     |<--  CoAP   -->|<------ CoAP OSCORE_piv ------> |
        OSCORE_flags

      <- 1 byte -> <------ s bytes ----->
     +------------+----------------------+-----------------------+
     | s (if any) | kid context (if any) | kid (if any)      ... |
     +------------+----------------------+-----------------------+
     |                                   |                       |
     | <------ CoAP OSCORE_kidctx ------>|<-- CoAP OSCORE_kid -->|

Figure 4: OSCORE Option

The ﬂag byte is followed by the piv ﬁeld, the kid context ﬁeld, and the kid ﬁeld, in that order, and,
if present, the kid context ﬁeld's length (in bytes) is encoded in the ﬁrst byte, denoted by "s".

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

To better perform OSCORE SCHC compression, the Rule description needs to identify the OSCORE
option and the ﬁelds it contains. Conceptually, it discerns up to four distinct pieces of information
within the OSCORE option: the ﬂag bits, the piv, the kid context, and the kid. The SCHC Rule splits
the OSCORE option into four Field Descriptors in order to compress them:

•

CoAP OSCORE_ﬂags

•

CoAP OSCORE_piv

•

CoAP OSCORE_kidctx

•

CoAP OSCORE_kid

Figure 4 shows the OSCORE option format with those four ﬁelds superimposed on it. Note that
the CoAP OSCORE_kidctx ﬁeld directly includes the size octet, s.

7.  Examples of CoAP Header Compression

7.1.  Mandatory Header with CON Message

In this ﬁrst scenario, the SCHC compressor on the NGW side receives a POST message from an
Internet client, which is immediately acknowledged by the Device. Table 3 describes the SCHC
Rule descriptions for this scenario.

RuleID 1

Field

FL

FP

DI

TV

MO

CDA

Sent [bits]

CoAP version

CoAP Type

CoAP Type

CoAP TKL

CoAP Code

2

2

2

4

8

CoAP MID

16

CoAP Uri-Path

var

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Bi

01

equal

Dw CON

equal

not-sent

not-sent

Up

Bi

Bi

match-mapping matching-sent

T

[ACK,
RST]

0

equal

not-sent

match-mapping matching-sent

CC CCC

[0.00,
...
5.05]

Bi

0000 MSB(7)

LSB

MID

Dw path

equal 1

not-sent

Table 3: CoAP Context to Compress Header without Token

In this example, SCHC compression elides the version and Token Length ﬁelds. The 25 Method
and Response Codes deﬁned in
 have been shrunk to 5 bits using a "match-mapping"
MO. The Uri-Path contains a single element indicated in the TV and elided with the CDA "not-
sent".

[RFC7252]

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

SCHC compression reduces the header, sending only the Type, a mapped code, and the least
signiﬁcant bits of the Message ID (9 bits in the example above).

Note that a client located in an Application Server sending a request to a server located in the
Device may not be compressed through this Rule, since the MID might not start with 7 bits equal
to 0. A CoAP proxy placed before SCHC C/D can rewrite the Message ID to ﬁt the value and match
the Rule.

7.2.  OSCORE Compression

OSCORE aims to solve the problem of end-to-end encryption for CoAP messages. Therefore, the
goal is to hide the message as much as possible while still enabling proxy operation.

Conceptually, this is achieved by splitting the CoAP message into an Inner Plaintext and Outer
OSCORE message. The Inner Plaintext contains sensitive information that is not necessary for
proxy operation. However, it is part of the message that can be encrypted until it reaches its end
destination. The Outer Message acts as a shell matching the regular CoAP message format and
includes all options and information needed for proxy operation and caching. Figure 5 below
illustrates this analysis.

CoAP arranges the options into one of three classes, each granted a speciﬁc type of protection by
the protocol:

Class E:

Encrypted options moved to the Inner Plaintext.

Class I:

Integrity-protected options included in the Additional Authenticated Data (AAD) for the

encryption of the Plaintext but otherwise left untouched in the Outer Message.

Class U:

Unprotected options left untouched in the Outer Message.

These classes point out that the Outer option contains the OSCORE option and that the message is
OSCORE protected; this option carries the information necessary to retrieve the Security Context.
The endpoint will use this Security Context to decrypt the message correctly.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

                      Original CoAP Packet
                   +-+-+---+-------+---------------+
                   |v|t|TKL| code  | Message ID    |
                   +-+-+---+-------+---------------+....+
                   | Token                              |
                   +-------------------------------.....+
                   | Options (IEU)            |
                   .                          .
                   .                          .
                   +------+-------------------+
                   | 0xFF |
                   +------+------------------------+
                   |                               |
                   |     Payload                   |
                   |                               |
                   +-------------------------------+
                          /                \
                         /                  \
                        /                    \
                       /                      \
     Outer Header     v                        v  Plaintext
  +-+-+---+--------+---------------+          +-------+
  |v|t|TKL|new code| Message ID    |          | code  |
  +-+-+---+--------+---------------+....+     +-------+-----......+
  | Token                               |     | Options (E)       |
  +--------------------------------.....+     +-------+------.....+
  | Options (IU)             |                | 0xFF  |
  .                          .                +-------+-----------+
  . OSCORE Option            .                |                   |
  +------+-------------------+                | Payload           |
  | 0xFF |                                    |                   |
  +------+                                    +-------------------+

Figure 5: CoAP Packet Split into OSCORE Outer Header and Plaintext

Figure 5 shows the packet format for the OSCORE Outer header and Plaintext.

In the Outer header, the original header code is hidden and replaced by a default dummy value.
As seen in Sections 4.1.3.5 and 4.2 of
requests and Changed for responses when CoAP is not using the Observe Option. If CoAP uses
Observe, the OSCORE message code is replaced by FETCH for requests and Content for responses.

, the message code is replaced by POST for

[RFC8613]

The ﬁrst byte of the Plaintext contains the original packet code, followed by the message code,
the class E options, and, if present, the original message payload preceded by its payload marker.

An Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) algorithm now encrypts the Plaintext.
This integrity-protects the Security Context parameters and, eventually, any class I options from
the Outer header. The resulting ciphertext becomes the new payload of the OSCORE message, as
illustrated in Figure 6.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

[RFC5116]

, this ciphertext is the encrypted Plaintext's concatenation of the

As deﬁned in
Authentication Tag. Note that Inner Compression only aﬀects the Plaintext before encryption.
The Authentication Tag, ﬁxed in length and uncompressed, is considered part of the cost of
protection.

     Outer Header
  +-+-+---+--------+---------------+
  |v|t|TKL|new code| Message ID    |
  +-+-+---+--------+---------------+....+
  | Token                               |
  +--------------------------------.....+
  | Options (IU)             |
  .                          .
  . OSCORE Option            .
  +------+-------------------+
  | 0xFF |
  +------+---------------------------+
  |                                  |
  | Ciphertext: Encrypted Inner      |
  |             Header and Payload   |
  |             + Authentication Tag |
  |                                  |
  +----------------------------------+

Figure 6: OSCORE Message

The SCHC compression scheme consists of compressing both the Plaintext before encryption and
the resulting OSCORE message after encryption; see Figure 7.

The OSCORE message translates into a segmented process where SCHC compression is applied
independently in two stages, each with its corresponding set of Rules, with the Inner SCHC Rules
and the Outer SCHC Rules. This way, compression is applied to all ﬁelds of the original CoAP
message.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

     Outer Message                             OSCORE Plaintext
  +-+-+---+--------+---------------+          +-------+
  |v|t|TKL|new code| Message ID    |          | code  |
  +-+-+---+--------+---------------+....+     +-------+-----......+
  | Token                               |     | Options (E)       |
  +--------------------------------.....+     +-------+------.....+
  | Options (IU)             |                | 0xFF  |
  .                          .                +-------+-----------+
  . OSCORE Option            .                |                   |
  +------+-------------------+                | Payload           |
  | 0xFF |                                    |                   |
  +------+------------+                       +-------------------+
  |  Ciphertext       |<---------\                      |
  |                   |          |                      v
  +-------------------+          |             +-----------------+
          |                      |             |   Inner SCHC    |
          v                      |             |   Compression   |
    +-----------------+          |             +-----------------+
    |   Outer SCHC    |          |                     |
    |   Compression   |          |                     v
    +-----------------+          |             +-------+
          |                      |             |RuleID |
          v                      |             +-------+-----------+
    +--------+             +------------+      |Compression Residue|
    |RuleID' |             | Encryption | <--  +----------+--------+
    +--------+-----------+ +------------+      |                   |
    |Compression Residue'|                     | Payload           |
    +-----------+--------+                     |                   |
    |  Ciphertext        |                     +-------------------+
    |                    |
    +--------------------+

Figure 7: OSCORE Compression Diagram

Note that since the corresponding endpoint can only decrypt the Inner part of the message, this
endpoint will also have to implement Inner SCHC Compression/Decompression.

7.3.  Example OSCORE Compression

This section gives an example with a GET request and its consequent Content response from a
Device-based CoAP client to a cloud-based CoAP server. The example also describes a possible set
of Rules for Inner SCHC Compression and Outer SCHC Compression. A dump of the results and a
contrast between SCHC + OSCORE performance with SCHC + CoAP performance are also listed.
This example gives an approximation of the cost of security with SCHC-OSCORE.

Our ﬁrst CoAP message is the GET request in Figure 8.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

Original message:
=================
0x4101000182bb74656d7065726174757265

Header:
0x4101
01   Ver
  00   CON
    0001   TKL
        00000001   Request Code 1 "GET"

0x0001 = mid
0x82 = token

Options:
0xbb74656d7065726174757265
Option 11: URI_PATH
Value = temperature

Original message length:   17 bytes

Figure 8: CoAP GET Request

Its corresponding response is the Content response in Figure 9.

Original message:
=================
0x6145000182ff32332043

Header:
0x6145
01   Ver
  10   ACK
    0001   TKL
        01000101 Successful Response Code 69 "2.05 Content"

0x0001 = mid
0x82 = token

0xFF  Payload marker
Payload:
0x32332043

Original message length:   10 bytes

Figure 9: CoAP Content Response

The SCHC Rules for the Inner Compression include all ﬁelds already present in a regular CoAP
message. The methods described in Section 4 apply to these ﬁelds. Table 4 provides an example.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

RuleID 0

Field

FL

FP

DI

TV

MO

CDA

Sent
[bits]

CoAP Code

CoAP Code

8

8

CoAP Uri-
Path

1

1

1

Table 4: Inner SCHC Rule

Up

1

equal

not-sent

Dw [69,132]

match-
mapping

mapping-
sent

c

Up

temperature

equal

not-sent

Figure 10 shows the Plaintext obtained for the example GET request. The packet follows the
process of Inner Compression and encryption until the payload. The Outer OSCORE message adds
the result of the Inner process.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

   ________________________________________________________
  |                                                        |
  | OSCORE Plaintext                                       |
  |                                                        |
  | 0x01bb74656d7065726174757265  (13 bytes)               |
  |                                                        |
  | 0x01 Request Code GET                                  |
  |                                                        |
  |      bb74656d7065726174757265 Option 11: URI_PATH      |
  |                               Value = temperature      |
  |________________________________________________________|

                              |
                              |
                              | Inner SCHC Compression
                              |
                              v
                _________________________________
               |                                 |
               | Compressed Plaintext            |
               |                                 |
               | 0x00                            |
               |                                 |
               | RuleID = 0x00 (1 byte)          |
               | (No Compression Residue)        |
               |_________________________________|

                              |
                              | AEAD Encryption
                              |  (piv = 0x04)
                              v
         _________________________________________________
        |                                                 |
        |  encrypted_plaintext = 0xa2 (1 byte)            |
        |  tag = 0xc54fe1b434297b62 (8 bytes)             |
        |                                                 |
        |  ciphertext = 0xa2c54fe1b434297b62 (9 bytes)    |
        |_________________________________________________|

Figure 10: Plaintext Compression and Encryption for GET Request

In this case, the original message has no payload, and its resulting Plaintext is compressed up to
only 1 byte (the size of the RuleID). The AEAD algorithm preserves this length in its ﬁrst output
and yields a ﬁxed-size tag. SCHC cannot compress the tag, and the OSCORE message must include
it without compression. The use of integrity protection translates into an overhead in total
message length, limiting the amount of compression that can be achieved and playing into the
cost of adding security to the exchange.

Figure 11 shows the process for the example Content response. The Compression Residue is 1 bit
long. Note that since SCHC adds padding after the payload, this misalignment causes the
hexadecimal code from the payload to diﬀer from the original, even if SCHC cannot compress the
tag. The overhead for the tag bytes limits SCHC's performance but brings security to the
transmission.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

   ________________________________________________________
  |                                                        |
  | OSCORE Plaintext                                       |
  |                                                        |
  | 0x45ff32332043  (6 bytes)                              |
  |                                                        |
  | 0x45 Successful Response Code 69 "2.05 Content"        |
  |                                                        |
  |     ff Payload marker                                  |
  |                                                        |
  |       32332043 Payload                                 |
  |________________________________________________________|

                              |
                              |
                              | Inner SCHC Compression
                              |
                              v
      _________________________________________________
     |                                                 |
     | Compressed Plaintext                            |
     |                                                 |
     | 0x001919902180 (6 bytes)                        |
     |                                                 |
     |   00 RuleID                                     |
     |                                                 |
     |  0b0 (1 bit match-mapping Compression Residue)  |
     |       0x32332043 >> 1 (shifted payload)         |
     |                        0b0000000 Padding        |
     |_________________________________________________|

                              |
                              | AEAD Encryption
                              |  (piv = 0x04)
                              v
     _________________________________________________________
    |                                                         |
    |  encrypted_plaintext = 0x10c6d7c26cc1 (6 bytes)         |
    |  tag = 0xe9aef3f2461e0c29 (8 bytes)                     |
    |                                                         |
    |  ciphertext = 0x10c6d7c26cc1e9aef3f2461e0c29 (14 bytes) |
    |_________________________________________________________|

Figure 11: Plaintext Compression and Encryption for Content Response

The Outer SCHC Rule (Table 5) must process the OSCORE options ﬁelds. Figures 12 and 13 show a
dump of the OSCORE messages generated from the example messages. They include the Inner
Compressed ciphertext in the payload. These are the messages that have to be compressed via
the Outer SCHC Compression scheme.

Table 5 shows a possible set of Outer Rule items to compress the Outer header.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

RuleID 0

Field

FL

FP

DI

TV

MO

CDA

Sent
[bits]

CoAP version

CoAP Type

CoAP Type

CoAP TKL

CoAP Code

CoAP Code

CoAP MID

CoAP Token

2

2

2

4

8

8

16

tkl

CoAP OSCORE_ﬂags

8

CoAP OSCORE_piv

CoAP OSCORE_kid

var

var

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Bi

01

Up

0

Dw 2

Bi

Up

1

2

Dw 68

Bi

0000

equal

equal

equal

equal

equal

equal

MSB
(12)

not-
sent

not-
sent

not-
sent

not-
sent

not-
sent

not-
sent

LSB

MMMM

Bi

0x80

MSB(5)

LSB

TTT

Up

0x09

equal

not-
sent

Up

0x00

MSB(4)

LSB

PPPP

Up

0x636c69656e70 MSB
(52)

LSB

KKKK

CoAP
OSCORE_kidctx

var

1

Bi

b''

CoAP OSCORE_ﬂags

8

1

Dw b''

CoAP OSCORE_piv

var

1

Dw b''

CoAP OSCORE_kid

var

1

Dw b''

Table 5: Outer SCHC Rule

equal

equal

equal

equal

not-
sent

not-
sent

not-
sent

not-
sent

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

Protected message:
==================
0x4102000182d8080904636c69656e74ffa2c54fe1b434297b62
(25 bytes)

Header:
0x4102
01   Ver
  00   CON
    0001   TKL
        00000010   Request Code 2 "POST"

0x0001 = mid
0x82 = token

Options:
0xd8080904636c69656e74 (10 bytes)
Option 21: OBJECT_SECURITY
Value = 0x0904636c69656e74
          09 = 000 0 1 001 flag byte
                   h k  n
            04 piv
              636c69656e74 kid

0xFF  Payload marker
Payload:
0xa2c54fe1b434297b62 (9 bytes)

Figure 12: Protected and Inner SCHC Compressed GET Request

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

Protected message:
==================
0x6144000182d008ff10c6d7c26cc1e9aef3f2461e0c29
(22 bytes)

Header:
0x6144
01   Ver
  10   ACK
    0001   TKL
        01000100   Successful Response Code 68 "2.04 Changed"

0x0001 = mid
0x82 = token

Options:
0xd008 (2 bytes)
Option 21: OBJECT_SECURITY
Value = b''

0xFF  Payload marker
Payload:
0x10c6d7c26cc1e9aef3f2461e0c29 (14 bytes)

Figure 13: Protected and Inner SCHC Compressed Content Response

For the ﬂag bits, some SCHC compression methods are useful, depending on the application. The
most straightforward alternative is to provide a ﬁxed value for the ﬂags, combining a MO of
"equal" and a CDA of "not-sent". This SCHC deﬁnition saves most bits but could prevent ﬂexibility.
Otherwise, SCHC could use a "match-mapping" MO to choose from several conﬁgurations for the
exchange. If not, the SCHC description may use an "MSB" MO to mask oﬀ the three hard-coded
most signiﬁcant bits.

Note that ﬁxing a ﬂag bit will limit the choices of CoAP options that can be used in the exchange,
since the values of these choices are dependent on speciﬁc options.

The piv ﬁeld lends itself to having some bits masked oﬀ with an "MSB" MO and an "LSB" CDA.
This SCHC description could be useful in applications where the message frequency is low, such
as LPWAN technologies. Note that compressing the sequence numbers may reduce the maximum
number of sequence numbers that can be used in an exchange. Once the sequence number
exceeds the maximum value, the OSCORE keys need to be re-established.

The size, s, that is included in the kid context ﬁeld
of the ﬁeld could have additional bits masked oﬀ or have the whole ﬁeld ﬁxed with a MO of
"equal" and a CDA of "not-sent". The same holds for the kid ﬁeld.

 be masked oﬀ with an "LSB" CDA. The rest

MAY

The Outer Rule of Table 5 is applied to the example GET request and Content response. Figures 14
and 15 show the resulting messages.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

Compressed message:
==================
0x001489458a9fc3686852f6c4 (12 bytes)
0x00 RuleID
    1489 Compression Residue
        458a9fc3686852f6c4 Padded payload

Compression Residue:
0b 0001 010 0100 0100 (15 bits -> 2 bytes with padding)
    mid tkn piv  kid

Payload
0xa2c54fe1b434297b62 (9 bytes)

Compressed message length: 12 bytes

Figure 14: SCHC-OSCORE Compressed GET Request

Compressed message:
==================
0x0014218daf84d983d35de7e48c3c1852 (16 bytes)
0x00 RuleID
    14 Compression Residue
      218daf84d983d35de7e48c3c1852 Padded payload
Compression Residue:
0b0001 010 (7 bits -> 1 byte with padding)
  mid  tkn

Payload
0x10c6d7c26cc1e9aef3f2461e0c29 (14 bytes)

Compressed message length: 16 bytes

Figure 15: SCHC-OSCORE Compressed Content Response

In contrast, comparing these results with what would be obtained by SCHC compressing the
original CoAP messages without protecting them with OSCORE is done by compressing the CoAP
messages according to the SCHC Rule in Table 6.

RuleID 1

Field

FL

FP

DI

TV

MO

CDA

Sent
[bits]

CoAP
version

CoAP Type

CoAP Type

2

2

2

1

1

1

Bi

01

equal

not-sent

Up

0

Dw 2

equal

equal

not-sent

not-sent

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

RuleID 1

Field

FL

FP

DI

TV

MO

CDA

Sent
[bits]

CoAP TKL

CoAP Code

CoAP Code

CoAP MID

CoAP Token

CoAP Uri-
Path

4

8

8

16

tkl

1

1

1

1

1

1

Bi

Up

1

2

Dw [69,132]

Bi

Bi

0000

0x80

equal

equal

match-
mapping

MSB(12)

MSB(5)

not-sent

not-sent

mapping-
sent

C

LSB

LSB

MMMM

TTT

Up

temperature

equal

not-sent

Table 6: SCHC-CoAP Rule (No OSCORE)

The Rule in Table 6 yields the SCHC compression results as shown in Figure 16 for the request
and Figure 17 for the response.

Compressed message:
==================
0x0114
0x01 = RuleID

Compression Residue:
0b00010100 (1 byte)

Compressed message length: 2 bytes

Figure 16: CoAP GET Compressed without OSCORE

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

Compressed message:
==================
0x010a32332043
0x01 = RuleID

Compression Residue:
0b00001010 (1 byte)

Payload
0x32332043

Compressed message length: 6 bytes

Figure 17: CoAP Content Compressed without OSCORE

As can be seen, the diﬀerence between applying SCHC + OSCORE as compared to regular SCHC +
CoAP is about 10 bytes.

8.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

9.  Security Considerations

The use of SCHC header compression for CoAP header ﬁelds only aﬀects the representation of the
header information. SCHC header compression itself does not increase or decrease the overall
level of security of the communication. When the connection does not use a security protocol
(OSCORE, DTLS, etc.), it is necessary to use a Layer 2 security mechanism to protect the SCHC
messages.

If an LPWAN is the Layer 2 technology being used, the SCHC security considerations discussed in
[RFC8724]
integrity-protection mechanism to protect the SCHC headers is
integrity protection is necessary in order to continue to provide the properties that
relies upon.

 continue to apply. When using another Layer 2 protocol, the use of a cryptographic
. Such cryptographic
[RFC8724]

REQUIRED

When SCHC is used with OSCORE, the security considerations discussed in
apply.

[RFC8613]

 continue to

When SCHC is used with the OSCORE Outer headers, the Initialization Vector (IV) size in the
Compression Residue must be carefully selected. There is a trade-oﬀ between compression
eﬃciency (with a longer "MSB" MO preﬁx) and the frequency at which the Device must renew its
key material (in order to prevent the IV from expanding to an uncompressible value). The key-
renewal operation itself requires several message exchanges and requires energy-intensive
computation, but the optimal trade-oﬀ will depend on the speciﬁcs of the Device and expected
usage patterns.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

If an attacker can introduce a corrupted SCHC-compressed packet onto a link, DoS attacks can be
mounted by causing excessive resource consumption at the decompressor. However, an attacker
able to inject packets at the link layer is also capable of other, potentially more damaging,
attacks.

SCHC compression emits variable-length Compression Residues for some CoAP ﬁelds. In the
representation of the compressed header, the length ﬁeld that is sent is not the length of the
original header ﬁeld but rather the length of the Compression Residue that is being transmitted.
If a corrupted packet arrives at the decompressor with a longer or shorter length than the
original compressed representation possessed, the SCHC decompression procedures will detect
an error and drop the packet.

MUST

 remain tightly coupled between the compressor and the

SCHC header compression Rules
decompressor. If the compression Rules get out of sync, a Compression Residue might be
decompressed diﬀerently at the receiver than the initial message submitted to compression
procedures. Accordingly, any time the context Rules are updated on an OSCORE endpoint, that
endpoint
signal Rule updates when other message-protection mechanisms are in use.

 trigger OSCORE key re-establishment. Similar procedures may be appropriate to

MUST

10.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5116]

[RFC7252]

[RFC7641]

[RFC7959]

[RFC7967]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

McGrew, D. "An Interface and Algorithms for Authenticated Encryption" RFC
,
5116 DOI 10.17487/RFC5116
rfc5116>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2008,

.

,

,
Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

.

,

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Hartke, K. "Observing Resources in the Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP)" RFC 7641 DOI 10.17487/RFC7641
editor.org/info/rfc7641>

, September 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

,

 and

,
Bormann, C.
Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 7959 DOI 10.17487/RFC7959
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7959>

Z. Shelby, Ed. "Block-Wise Transfers in the Constrained

,

,

.

, August 2016,

,
Bhattacharyya, A. Bandyopadhyay, S. Pal, A.
Application Protocol (CoAP) Option for No Server Response" RFC 7967 DOI
.
10.17487/RFC7967

T. Bose "Constrained
,
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7967>

, August 2016,

, and

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8824

SCHC for CoAP

June 2021

[RFC8613]

[RFC8724]

,

L. Seitz "Object Security for
Selander, G. Mattsson, J. Palombini, F.
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)" RFC 8613 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8613

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8613>

, July 2019,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Minaburo, A. Toutain, L. Gomez, C. Barthel, D.
Framework for Static Context Header Compression and Fragmentation" RFC
,
8724 DOI 10.17487/RFC8724
rfc8724>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

JC. Zúñiga "SCHC: Generic

, April 2020,

, and

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank (in alphabetic order):
Carsten Bormann Theresa Enghardt Thomas Fossati Klaus Hartke Benjamin Kaduk Francesca
,
Palombini Alexander Pelov Göran Selander
, and

Christian Amsuss Dominique Barthel
,

Éric Vyncke
.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Ana Minaburo
Acklio
1137A avenue des Champs Blancs
35510 Cesson-Sevigne Cedex
France
Email:

 ana@ackl.io

Laurent Toutain
Institut MINES TELECOM; IMT Atlantique
CS 17607
2 rue de la Chataigneraie
35576 Cesson-Sevigne Cedex
France
Email:

 Laurent.Toutain@imt-atlantique.fr

Ricardo Andreasen
Universidad de Buenos Aires
Av. Paseo Colon 850
C1063ACV Ciudad Autonoma de Buenos Aires
Argentina
Email:

 randreasen@ﬁ.uba.ar

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

