Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8731
Standards Track
February 2020
2070-1721
A. Adamantiadis
libssh

S. Josefsson
SJD AB

M. Baushke
Juniper Networks, Inc.

RFC 8731
Secure Shell (SSH) Key Exchange Method Using
Curve25519 and Curve448

Abstract

This document describes the speciﬁcation for using Curve25519 and Curve448 key exchange
methods in the Secure Shell (SSH) protocol.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8731

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Adamantiadis, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8731

Curve25519/448 for SSH

February 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Key Exchange Methods

3.1.  Shared Secret Encoding

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC4251]

[RFC4253]

 supports an extensible set of methods.

 is a secure remote login protocol. The key exchange protocol

Secure Shell (SSH)
described in
curves are integrated into this extensible SSH framework, and this document reuses the Elliptic
Curve Diﬃe-Hellman (ECDH) key exchange protocol messages deﬁned in Section
, such as Elliptic Curve Menezes-Qu-
. Other parts of
Message Numbers)
Vanstone (ECMQV) key agreement and Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA), are
not considered in this document.

 deﬁnes how elliptic

[RFC5656]

[RFC5656]

[RFC5656]

7.1 (ECDH

 of

 in SSH. For Curve25519 with SHA-256

This document describes how to implement key exchange based on Curve25519 and Curve448
[RFC7748]
equivalent to the privately deﬁned algorithm "curve25519-sha256@libssh.org", which at the time
.
of publication was implemented and widely deployed in libssh
[OpenSSH]
The Curve448 key exchange method is similar but uses SHA-512

, the algorithm described is

.
[RFC6234][SHS]

[RFC6234][SHS]

 and OpenSSH

[libssh]

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Adamantiadis, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8731

Curve25519/448 for SSH

February 2020

3.  Key Exchange Methods

Section 4 of [RFC5656]
,
The key exchange procedure is similar to the ECDH method described in
though with a diﬀerent wire encoding used for public values and the ﬁnal shared secret. Public
ephemeral keys are encoded for transmission as standard SSH strings.

The protocol ﬂow, the SSH_MSG_KEX_ECDH_INIT and SSH_MSG_KEX_ECDH_REPLY messages,
and the structure of the exchange hash are identical to

Section 4 of [RFC5656]

.

The method names registered by this document are "curve25519-sha256" and "curve448-sha512".

The methods are based on Curve25519 and Curve448 scalar multiplication, as described in
[RFC7748]
strings of 32 bytes for Curve25519 and 56 bytes for Curve448.

. Private and public keys are generated as described therein. Public keys are deﬁned as

MUST

SHOULD

SHOULD

[RFC7748]

Section 6 of [RFC7748]

 check whether the computed Diﬃe-Hellman shared secret is the all-zero

The key-agreement schemes "curve25519-sha256" and "curve448-sha512" perform the Diﬃe-
Hellman protocol using the functions X25519 and X448, respectively. Implementations
compute these functions using the algorithms described in
. When they do so,
implementations
value and abort if so, as described in
these functions
to one of a small set of values, as described in Sections 6 and 7 of
MUST
for these purposes is deﬁned as a disconnect (SSH_MSG_DISCONNECT) of the session and
SHOULD
REASON]
shared secret is 32 bytes when "curve25519-sha256" is used and 56 bytes when "curve448-
sha512" is used. The encodings of all values are deﬁned in
for "curve25519-sha256" and SHA-512 for "curve448-sha512".

 use the SSH_DISCONNECT_KEY_EXCHANGE_FAILED reason for the message
. No further validation is required beyond what is described in

 abort when either the client or the server input forces the shared secret
. Clients and servers

 also abort if the length of the received public keys are not the expected lengths. An abort

. Alternative implementations of

[IANA-
. The derived

. The hash used is SHA-256

[RFC7748]

[RFC7748]

[RFC7748]

3.1.  Shared Secret Encoding

The following step diﬀers from
to modify that text generally, but only to be applicable to the scope of the mechanism described
in this document.

, which uses a diﬀerent conversion. This is not intended

[RFC5656]

[RFC4253]

The shared secret, K, is deﬁned in
 as an integer encoded as a multiple
 and
precision integer (mpint). Curve25519/448 outputs a binary string X, which is the 32- or 56-byte
point obtained by scalar multiplication of the other side's public key and the local private key
scalar. The 32 or 56 bytes of X are converted into K by interpreting the octets as an unsigned
ﬁxed-length integer encoded in network byte order.

[RFC5656]

The mpint K is then encoded using the process described in
resulting bytes are fed as described in
generate encryption keys.

[RFC4253]

Section 5 of [RFC4251]
 to the key exchange method's hash function to

, and the

Adamantiadis, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8731

Curve25519/448 for SSH

February 2020

When performing the X25519 or X448 operations, the integer values there will be encoded into
byte strings by doing a ﬁxed-length unsigned little-endian conversion, per
. It is only
later when these byte strings are then passed to the ECDH function in SSH that the bytes are
reinterpreted as a ﬁxed-length unsigned big-endian integer value K, and then later that K value is
encoded as a variable-length signed "mpint" before being fed to the hash algorithm used for key
generation. The mpint K is then fed along with other data to the key exchange method's hash
function to generate encryption keys.

[RFC7748]

4.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of

[RFC4251] [RFC5656]
,

, and

[RFC7748]

 are inherited.

Curve25519 with SHA-256 provides strong (~128 bits) security, is eﬃcient on a wide range of
architectures, and has characteristics that allow for better implementation properties compared
to traditional elliptic curves. Curve448 with SHA-512 provides stronger (~224 bits) security with
similar implementation properties; however, it has not received the same cryptographic review
as Curve25519. It is also slower (larger key material and larger secure hash algorithm), but it is
provided as a hedge to combat unforeseen analytical advances against Curve25519 and SHA-256
due to the larger number of security bits.

The way the derived mpint binary secret string is encoded before it is hashed (i.e., adding or
removing zero bytes for encoding) raises the potential for a side-channel attack, which could
determine the length of what is hashed. This would leak the most signiﬁcant bit of the derived
secret and/or allow detection of when the most signiﬁcant bytes are zero. For backwards-
compatibility reasons, it was decided not to address this potential problem.

This document provides "curve25519-sha256" as the preferred choice but suggests that the
"curve448-sha512" be implemented to provide more than 128 bits of security strength should that
become a requirement.

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added "curve25519-sha256" and "curve448-sha512" to the "Key Exchange Method
 that was created in
Names" registry for SSH

Section 4.10 of [RFC4250]

[IANA-KEX]

.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4250]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Lehtinen, S. and C. Lonvick, Ed. "The Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Assigned
,
Numbers" RFC 4250 DOI 10.17487/RFC4250
editor.org/info/rfc4250>

, January 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

,

Adamantiadis, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8731

Curve25519/448 for SSH

February 2020

[RFC4251]

[RFC4253]

[RFC5656]

[RFC8174]

[SHS]

Ylonen, T. and C. Lonvick, Ed. "The Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Architecture"
RFC 4251 DOI 10.17487/RFC4251
rfc4251>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2006,

,
.

,

,

Ylonen, T. and C. Lonvick, Ed. "The Secure Shell (SSH) Transport Layer
Protocol" RFC 4253 DOI 10.17487/RFC4253
editor.org/info/rfc4253>

, January 2006,

,

,

.

,

<https://www.rfc-

Stebila, D. and J. Green "Elliptic Curve Algorithm Integration in the Secure Shell
Transport Layer" RFC 5656 DOI 10.17487/RFC5656
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5656>

, December 2009,

<https://

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

National Institute of Standards and Technology "Secure Hash Standard (SHS)"
FIPS PUB 180-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4
nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf>

, August 2015,
.

<https://

,

,

,

6.2.  Informative References

[IANA-KEX]

,

IANA "Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Parameters: Key Exchange Method Names"
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/ssh-parameters/>

.

, ,

[IANA-REASON]

,

IANA "Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Parameters: Disconnection Messages
Reason Codes and Descriptions" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/ssh-
parameters/>

, ,

.

[libssh]

[OpenSSH]

[RFC6234]

[RFC7748]

, ,
libssh "The SSH Library" <https://www.libssh.org/>

,

.

OpenSSH group of OpenBSD "The OpenSSH Project" <https://
www.openssh.com/>

, ,

,

.

Eastlake 3rd, D. and T. Hansen "US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and SHA-
based HMAC and HKDF)" RFC 6234 DOI 10.17487/RFC6234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6234>

, May 2011,

,

,

.

,

<https://

,
,
Langley, A., Hamburg, M., and S. Turner "Elliptic Curves for Security" RFC 7748
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7748>
DOI 10.17487/RFC7748

, January 2016,

,

Acknowledgements

The "curve25519-sha256" key exchange method is identical to the "curve25519-
sha256@libssh.org" key exchange method created by
libssh and OpenSSH.

Aris Adamantiadis

 and implemented in

Thanks to the following people for review and comments:
, and
Moeller Matt Johnston Eric Rescorla Ron Frederick

Denis Bider Damien Miller Niels
Stefan Buehler

,

,

,

,

,

.

Adamantiadis, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8731

Curve25519/448 for SSH

February 2020

Authors' Addresses

Aris Adamantiadis
libssh
Email:

 aris@badcode.be

Simon Josefsson
SJD AB
Email:

 simon@josefsson.org

Mark D. Baushke
Juniper Networks, Inc.
Email:

 mdb@juniper.net

Adamantiadis, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

