Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8940
5247
Standards Track
October 2020
2070-1721
A. DeKok
FreeRADIUS

RFC 8940
Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) Session-Id
Derivation for EAP Subscriber Identity Module (EAP-
SIM), EAP Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-
AKA), and Protected EAP (PEAP)

Abstract

RFC 5247 is updated to deﬁne and clarify EAP Session-Id derivation for multiple Extensible
Authentication Protocol (EAP) methods. The derivation of Session-Id was not given for EAP
Subscriber Identity Module (EAP-SIM) or EAP Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA)
when using the fast reconnect exchange instead of full authentication. The derivation of Session-
Id for full authentication is clariﬁed for both EAP-SIM and EAP-AKA. The derivation of Session-Id
for Protected EAP (PEAP) is also given. The deﬁnition for PEAP follows the deﬁnition for other
TLS-based EAP methods.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8940

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

DeKok

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8940

EAP Session-Id Derivation

October 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Updates to RFC 5247, Appendix A

2.1.  EAP-AKA

2.2.  EAP-SIM

2.3.  Rationale for EAP-AKA and EAP-SIM Updates

3.  Session-Id for PEAP

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

[RFC3748]

 Session-Id derivation has not been deﬁned for EAP-SIM and EAP-AKA when using

EAP
the fast reconnect exchange instead of full authentication.
these EAP methods, but that derivation is only applicable for the full authentication case. The
Session-Id derivation was not deﬁned for EAP-AKA', but
updates. As such, the deﬁnition for EAP-AKA' is not included here.

 now deﬁnes it, along with other

 deﬁnes the Session-Id for

[RFC5247]

[AKAP]

Further, the derivation of Session-Id for full authentication is clariﬁed, as the text in
ambiguous.

[RFC5247]

 is

The IEEE has deﬁned Fast Initial Link Setup (FILS) authentication
Session-Id in order for the EAP Re-authentication Protocol (ERP)
therefore important to address the existing deﬁciencies in the deﬁnition of EAP Session-Id.

[FILS]
[RFC6696]

 to work. It is

, which needs the EAP

DeKok

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8940

EAP Session-Id Derivation

October 2020

[RFC5247]

 did not deﬁne Session-Id for PEAP
[RFC5247]

Finally,
deﬁciencies here by updating
exchange for EAP-SIM and EAP-AKA; clarifying the Session-Id derivation during full
authentication for EAP-SIM and EAP-AKA; and deﬁning the Session-Id derivation for PEAP, which
is the same for both full authentication and fast reconnect.

 with the Session-Id derivation during fast-reconnect

[MS-PEAP] [PEAP]

. We correct these

2.  Updates to RFC 5247, Appendix A

This section updates
EAP-AKA and EAP-SIM.

[RFC5247], Appendix A

 to deﬁne Session-Id for fast reconnect exchange for

2.1.  EAP-AKA

For EAP-AKA,

[RFC5247], Appendix A

 says:

EAP-AKA

EAP-AKA is deﬁned in
EAP Type Code (0x17) with the contents of the RAND ﬁeld from the AT_RAND
attribute, followed by the contents of the AUTN ﬁeld in the AT_AUTN attribute:

. The EAP-AKA Session-Id is the concatenation of the

[RFC4187]

   Session-Id = 0x17 || RAND || AUTN

It should say:

EAP-AKA

[RFC4187]

EAP-AKA is deﬁned in
Session-Id is the concatenation of the EAP Type Code (0x17) with the contents of the
RAND ﬁeld from the AT_RAND attribute, followed by the contents of the AUTN ﬁeld
in the AT_AUTN attribute:

. When using full authentication, the EAP-AKA

   Session-Id = 0x17 || RAND || AUTN

When using fast reconnect, the EAP-AKA Session-Id is the concatenation of the EAP
Type Code (0x17) with the contents of the NONCE_S ﬁeld from the AT_NONCE_S
attribute, followed by the contents of the MAC ﬁeld from the AT_MAC attribute from
EAP-Request/AKA-Reauthentication:

   Session-Id = 0x17 || NONCE_S || MAC

DeKok

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8940

EAP Session-Id Derivation

October 2020

2.2.  EAP-SIM

Similarly for EAP-SIM,

[RFC5247], Appendix A

 says:

EAP-SIM

[RFC4186]

EAP-SIM is deﬁned in
EAP Type Code (0x12) with the contents of the RAND ﬁeld from the AT_RAND
attribute, followed by the contents of the NONCE_MT ﬁeld in the AT_NONCE_MT
attribute:

. The EAP-SIM Session-Id is the concatenation of the

   Session-Id = 0x12 || RAND || NONCE_MT

It should say:

EAP-SIM

[RFC4186]

. When using full authentication, the EAP-SIM

EAP-SIM is deﬁned in
Session-Id is the concatenation of the EAP Type Code (0x12) with the contents of the
RAND ﬁeld from the AT_RAND attribute, followed by the contents of the NONCE_MT
ﬁeld in the AT_NONCE_MT attribute. RFC 4186 says that the EAP server should obtain
"n" GSM triplets where "n=2" or "n=3".

For "n=2", the Session-Id is therefore deﬁned as

   Session-Id = 0x12 || RAND1 || RAND2 || NONCE_MT

which is 49 octets in length.

For "n=3", the Session-Id is therefore deﬁned as

   Session-Id = 0x12 || RAND1 || RAND2 || RAND3 || NONCE_MT

which is 65 octets in length.

RAND1, RAND2, and RAND3 correspond to the RAND value from the ﬁrst, second,
and third GSM triplet, respectively.

DeKok

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8940

EAP Session-Id Derivation

October 2020

When using fast reconnect, the EAP-SIM Session-Id is the concatenation of the EAP
Type Code (0x12) with the contents of the NONCE_S ﬁeld from the AT_NONCE_S
attribute, followed by the contents of the MAC ﬁeld from the AT_MAC attribute from
EAP-Request/SIM/Reauthentication:

   Session-Id = 0x12 || NONCE_S || MAC

which is 33 octets in length.

2.3.  Rationale for EAP-AKA and EAP-SIM Updates

Appendix A of [RFC5247]
 was supposed to deﬁne exported parameters for existing EAP methods.
The way Session-Id was deﬁned for EAP-AKA and EAP-SIM works only for the full authentication
case, i.e., it cannot be used when the optional fast reconnect case is used since the used
parameters (RAND, AUTN, NONCE_MT) are not used in the fast reconnect case. Based on
[RFC4187], Section 5.2
and MAC in EAP-Request/AKA-Reauthentication, and EAP-Request/SIM/Reauthentication
corresponds to AUTN. That would seem to imply that the Session-Id could be deﬁned using
NONCE_S and MAC instead of RAND and AUTN/NONCE_MT.

, NONCE_S corresponds to RAND

[RFC4186], Section 5.2

 and similar text in

This derivation is done via a random value created by the server, along with a secret key and the
peer's identity. We believe that this derivation is secure, though no formal analysis has been
done.

3.  Session-Id for PEAP

[RFC5247]
the EAP-TLS deﬁnition given in

[RFC5216], Section 2.3

, we deﬁne it as:

 did not deﬁne Session-Id for Microsoft's Protected EAP (PEAP). For consistency with

   Session-Id = 0x19 || client.random || server.random

This deﬁnition is that same for both full authentication and for fast reconnect.

This deﬁnition is already in widespread use in all known PEAP implementations.

Note that this deﬁnition for Session-Id only applies when TLS 1.2 or earlier is used. A diﬀerent
derivation is deﬁned for TLS 1.3 in

[TLS-EAP-TYPES]

.

4.  Security Considerations

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes EAP Session-Ids for ERP with EAP-SIM and EAP-AKA. It therefore
enables ERP key hierarchy establishment using fast reconnect with EAP-SIM and EAP-AKA.

The Session-Id deﬁnitions given here are unique per session, unforgeable, and unguessable by an
outside party, as per the requirements of

[RFC5247], Section 10

.

DeKok

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8940

EAP Session-Id Derivation

October 2020

The deﬁnitions used here have been widely deployed for years in all major EAP
implementations. However, we acknowledge that very little security analysis has been done for
these deﬁnitions. As a result, any security issues would result in serious issues for the Internet as
a whole.

These updates do not modify the security considerations outlined in

[RFC5247]
.

5.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[FILS]

[RFC3748]

[RFC5216]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Information technology--Telecommunications and
information exchange between systems - Local and metropolitan area
networks--Speciﬁc requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control
(MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Speciﬁcations - Amendment 1: Fast Initial Link
Setup" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2016.7792308 IEEE Std 802.11ai-2016
2016,

,
<https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2016.7792308>

, December

,

.

Aboba, B., Blunk, L., Vollbrecht, J., Carlson, J., and H. Levkowetz, Ed. "Extensible
Authentication Protocol (EAP)" RFC 3748 DOI 10.17487/RFC3748
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3748>
.

, June 2004,

,

Simon, D., Aboba, B., and R. Hurst "The EAP-TLS Authentication Protocol" RFC
5216 DOI 10.17487/RFC5216
,
rfc5216>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, March 2008,

.

[RFC5247]

Aboba, B., Simon, D., and P. Eronen "Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
, August 2008,
,
,
Key Management Framework" RFC 5247 DOI 10.17487/RFC5247
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5247>

,

6.2.  Informative References

[AKAP]

[Err5011]

Arkko, J., Lehtovirta, V., Torvinen, V., and P. Eronen "Improved Extensible
Authentication Protocol Method for 3GPP Mobile Network Authentication and
Key Agreement (EAP-AKA')" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-emu-
rfc5448bis-07
rfc5448bis-07>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-emu-

,
, 9 March 2020,

,

,

.

RFC Errata Erratum ID 5011 RFC 5247 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid5011>

.

,

,

,

DeKok

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8940

EAP Session-Id Derivation

October 2020

[MS-PEAP]

[PEAP]

[RFC4186]

[RFC4187]

[RFC6696]

,

Microsoft "[MS-PEAP]: Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol (PEAP)"
<https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/openspecs/windows_protocols/ms-
peap/5308642b-90c9-4cc4-beec-fb367325c0f9>

.

,

Palekar, A., Josefsson, S., Simon, D., and G. Zorn "Protected EAP Protocol (PEAP)
Version 2" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-josefsson-pppext-eap-tls-
eap-10
tls-eap-10>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-josefsson-pppext-eap-

, 21 October 2004,

,

,

,

.

,
Haverinen, H., Ed. and J. Salowey, Ed. "Extensible Authentication Protocol
Method for Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) Subscriber
Identity Modules (EAP-SIM)" RFC 4186 DOI 10.17487/RFC4186
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4186>

,

,

.

, January 2006,

Arkko, J. and H. Haverinen "Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for 3rd
Generation Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA)" RFC 4187 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4187>
10.17487/RFC4187

, January 2006,

,

,

.

,

Cao, Z., He, B., Shi, Y., Wu, Q., Ed., and G. Zorn, Ed. "EAP Extensions for the EAP
, July 2012,
,
Re-authentication Protocol (ERP)" RFC 6696 DOI 10.17487/RFC6696
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6696>

.

,

,

[TLS-EAP-TYPES]

DeKok, A. "TLS-based EAP types and TLS 1.3" Work in Progress Internet-
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/

,
, 29 July 2020,

,

,

Draft, draft-ietf-emu-tls-eap-types-01
draft-ietf-emu-tls-eap-types-01>

.

Acknowledgments

The issue corrected in this speciﬁcation was ﬁrst reported by
erratum for RFC 5247

[Err5011]

.

Jouni Malinen

 in a technical

The text in this document follows Jouni's suggestions.

Author's Address

Alan DeKok
The FreeRADIUS Server Project
Email:

 aland@freeradius.org

DeKok

Standards Track

Page 7

