Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8837
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
P. Jones
Cisco Systems

S. Dhesikan
Individual

C. Jennings
Cisco Systems

D. Druta
AT&T

RFC 8837
Diﬀerentiated Services Code Point (DSCP) Packet
Markings for WebRTC QoS

Abstract

Networks can provide diﬀerent forwarding treatments for individual packets based on
Diﬀerentiated Services Code Point (DSCP) values on a per-hop basis. This document provides the
recommended DSCP values for web browsers to use for various classes of Web Real-Time
Communication (WebRTC) traﬃc.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8837

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8837

WebRTC QoS

January 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Relation to Other Speciﬁcations

4.  Inputs

5.  DSCP Mappings

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Downward References

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Dedication

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Diﬀerentiated Services Code Point (DSCP)
some environments. This speciﬁcation provides default packet marking for browsers that
support WebRTC applications, but does not change any advice or requirements in other RFCs.
The contents of this speciﬁcation are intended to be a simple set of implementation
recommendations based on previous RFCs.

 packet marking can help provide QoS in

[RFC2474]

Networks in which these DSCP markings are beneﬁcial (likely to improve QoS for WebRTC traﬃc)
include:

1.

Private, wide-area networks. Network administrators have control over remarking packets
and treatment of packets.

2.

Residential Networks. If the congested link is the broadband uplink in a cable or DSL
scenario, residential routers/NAT often support preferential treatment based on DSCP.

3.

Wireless Networks. If the congested link is a local wireless network, marking may help.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8837

WebRTC QoS

January 2021

There are cases where these DSCP markings do not help but, aside from possible priority
inversion for "Less-than-Best-Eﬀort traﬃc" (see Section 5), they seldom make things worse if
packets are marked appropriately.

DSCP values are, in principle, site speciﬁc with each site selecting its own code points for
controlling per-hop behavior to inﬂuence the QoS for transport-layer ﬂows. However, in the
WebRTC use cases, the browsers need to set them to something when there is no site-speciﬁc
information. This document describes a subset of DSCP code point values drawn from existing
RFCs and common usage for use with WebRTC applications. These code points are intended to be
the default values used by a WebRTC application. While other values could be used, using a non-
default value may result in unexpected per-hop behavior. It is
applications use non-default values only in private networks that are conﬁgured to use diﬀerent
values.

RECOMMENDED

 that WebRTC

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes inputs that are provided by the WebRTC application hosted in the
browser that aid the browser in determining how to set the various packet markings. The
speciﬁcation also deﬁnes the mapping from abstract QoS policies (ﬂow type, priority level) to
those packet markings.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The terms "browser" and "non-browser" are deﬁned in
this document.

[RFC7742]

 and carry the same meaning in

3.  Relation to Other Speciﬁcations

This document is a complement to
real-time communications. That RFC covers the implications of using various DSCP values,
 streams that are
particularly focusing on the Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP)
multiplexed onto a single transport-layer ﬂow.

, which describes the interaction between DSCP and

[RFC3550]

[RFC7657]

[RFC7657]

 that apply to marking traﬃc sent by

There are a number of guidelines speciﬁed in
WebRTC applications, as it is common for multiple RTP streams to be multiplexed on the same
transport-layer ﬂow. Generally, the RTP streams would be marked with a value as appropriate
from Table 1. A WebRTC application might also multiplex data channel
same 5-tuple as RTP streams, which would also be marked per that table. The guidance in
 says that all data channel traﬃc would be marked with a single value that is typically
[RFC7657]
diﬀerent from the value(s) used for RTP streams multiplexed with the data channel traﬃc over
the same 5-tuple, assuming RTP streams are marked with a value other than Default Forwarding
(DF). This is expanded upon further in the next section.

 traﬃc over the

[RFC8831]

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8837

WebRTC QoS

January 2021

This speciﬁcation does not change or override the advice in any other RFCs about setting packet
markings. Rather, it simply selects a subset of DSCP values that is relevant in the WebRTC
context.

The DSCP value set by the endpoint is not trusted by the network. In addition, the DSCP value
may be remarked at any place in the network for a variety of reasons to any other DSCP value,
including the DF value to provide basic best-eﬀort service. Even so, there is a beneﬁt to marking
traﬃc even if it only beneﬁts the ﬁrst few hops. The implications are discussed in
Section 3.2 of
[RFC7657]
authorization mechanism is outside the scope of this document.

. Further, a mitigation for such action is through an authorization mechanism. Such an

4.  Inputs

This document recommends DSCP values for two classes of WebRTC ﬂows:

•

media ﬂows that are RTP streams

[RFC8834]

•

data ﬂows that are data channels

[RFC8831]

Each of the RTP streams and distinct data channels consist of all of the packets associated with an
independent media entity, so an RTP stream or distinct data channel is not always equivalent to a
transport-layer ﬂow deﬁned by a 5-tuple (source address, destination address, source port,
destination port, and protocol). There may be multiple RTP streams and data channels
multiplexed over the same 5-tuple, with each having a diﬀerent level of importance to the
application and, therefore, potentially marked using diﬀerent DSCP values than another RTP
stream or data channel within the same transport-layer ﬂow. (Note that there are restrictions
with respect to marking diﬀerent data channels carried within the same Stream Control
Transmission Protocol (SCTP) association as outlined in Section 5.)

The following are the inputs provided by the WebRTC application to the browser:

•

Flow Type: The application provides this input because it knows if the ﬂow is audio,
interactive video (

) with or without audio, or data.

[RFC4594] [G.1010]

•

Application Priority: Another input is the relative importance of an RTP stream or data
channel. Many applications have multiple ﬂows of the same ﬂow type and some ﬂows are
often more important than others. For example, in a video conference where there are
usually audio and video ﬂows, the audio ﬂow may be more important than the video ﬂow.
JavaScript applications can tell the browser whether a particular ﬂow is of High, Medium,
Low, or Very Low importance to the application.

[RFC8835]
priorities for media and data ﬂows.

 deﬁnes in more detail what an individual ﬂow is within the WebRTC context and

Currently in WebRTC, media sent over RTP is assumed to be interactive
APIs do not exist to allow an application to diﬀerentiate between interactive and non-interactive
video.

 and browser

[RFC8835]

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8837

WebRTC QoS

January 2021

5.  DSCP Mappings

The DSCP values for each ﬂow type of interest to WebRTC based on application priority are
shown in Table 1. These values are based on the framework and recommended values in
[RFC4594]
More information on Expedited Forwarding (EF) and Assured Forwarding (AF) can be found in
, respectively. DF is Default Forwarding, which provides the basic best-
[RFC3246]
eﬀort service

 use these values to mark the appropriate media packets.

[RFC2597]
.

. A web browser

[RFC2474]

SHOULD

 and

WebRTC's use of multiple DSCP values may result in packets with certain DSCP values being
blocked by a network. See
implementations establish and maintain connectivity when such blocking is encountered.

 for further discussion, including how WebRTC

Section 4.2 of [RFC8835]

Flow Type

Audio

Very
Low

LE (1)

Interactive Video with or without
Audio

LE (1)

Non-Interactive Video with or
without Audio

LE (1)

Data

LE (1)

Low

Medium

High

EF (46)

EF (46)

AF42, AF43 (36,
38)

AF41, AF42 (34,
36)

AF32, AF33 (28,
30)

AF31, AF32 (26,
28)

AF11

AF21

DF
(0)

DF
(0)

DF
(0)

DF
(0)

Table 1: Recommended DSCP Values for WebRTC Applications

The application priority, indicated by the columns "Very Low", "Low", "Medium", and "High",
signiﬁes the relative importance of the ﬂow within the application. It is an input that the browser
receives to assist in selecting the DSCP value and adjusting the network transport behavior.

[RFC8622]

The above table assumes that packets marked with LE are treated as lower eﬀort (i.e., "less than
best eﬀort"), such as the LE behavior described in
implementation dependent. If an implementation treats LE as other than "less than best eﬀort",
then the actual priority (or, more precisely, the per-hop behavior) of the packets may be changed
from what is intended. It is common for LE to be treated the same as DF, so applications and
browsers using LE cannot assume that LE will be treated diﬀerently than DF
development of this document, the CS1 DSCP was recommended for "very low" application
priority traﬃc; implementations that followed that recommendation
the LE DSCP instead of the CS1 DSCP.

. However, the treatment of LE is

 be updated to use

[RFC7657]

. During

SHOULD

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8837

WebRTC QoS

January 2021

Implementers should also note that excess EF traﬃc is dropped. This could mean that a packet
marked as EF may not get through, although the same packet marked with a diﬀerent DSCP value
would have gotten through. This is not a ﬂaw, but how excess EF traﬃc is intended to be treated.

The browser
importance of the ﬂow

SHOULD

 ﬁrst select the ﬂow type of the ﬂow. Within the ﬂow type, the relative

SHOULD

 be used to select the appropriate DSCP value.

Currently, all WebRTC video is assumed to be interactive
 be used. Browsers
video DSCP values in Table 1
non-interactive video in Table 1) for WebRTC applications. Non-browser implementations of
WebRTC
 use the AF3x DSCP values for video that is known not to be interactive, e.g., all
video in a WebRTC video playback application that is not implemented in a browser.

, for which the interactive
 use the AF3x DSCP values (for

[RFC8835]
MUST NOT

SHOULD

MAY

SHOULD

 have the same application

The combination of ﬂow type and application priority provides speciﬁcity and helps in selecting
the right DSCP value for the ﬂow. All packets within a ﬂow
priority. In some cases, the selected application priority cell may have multiple DSCP values, such
as AF41 and AF42. These oﬀer diﬀerent drop precedences. The diﬀerent drop precedence values
provide additional granularity in classifying packets within a ﬂow. For example, in a video
conference, the video ﬂow may have medium application priority, thus either AF42 or AF43 may
be selected. More important video packets (e.g., a video picture or frame encoded without any
dependency on any prior pictures or frames) might be marked with AF42 and less important
packets (e.g., a video picture or frame encoded based on the content of one or more prior
pictures or frames) might be marked with AF43 (e.g., receipt of the more important packets
enables a video renderer to continue after one or more packets are lost).

It is worth noting that the application priority is utilized by the coupled congestion control
mechanism for media ﬂows per
.
[RFC8831]

 and the SCTP scheduler for data channel traﬃc per

[RFC8699]

MUST

Section 6 of [RFC7657]

, if multiple ﬂows are multiplexed using a reliable

For reasons discussed in
transport (e.g., TCP), then all of the packets for all ﬂows multiplexed over that transport-layer
 be marked using the same DSCP value. Likewise, all WebRTC data channel packets
ﬂow
transmitted over an SCTP association
 be marked using the same DSCP value, regardless of
how many data channels (streams) exist or what kind of traﬃc is carried over the various SCTP
streams. In the event that the browser wishes to change the DSCP value in use for an SCTP
association, it
 reset the SCTP congestion controller after changing values. However,
frequent changes in the DSCP value used for an SCTP association are discouraged, as this would
defeat any attempts at eﬀectively managing congestion. It should also be noted that any change
in DSCP value that results in a reset of the congestion controller puts the SCTP association back
into slow start, which may have undesirable eﬀects on application performance.

MUST

MUST

For the data channel traﬃc multiplexed over an SCTP association, it is
DSCP value selected be the one associated with the highest priority requested for all data
channels multiplexed over the SCTP association. Likewise, when multiplexing multiple ﬂows
over a TCP connection, the DSCP value selected
priority requested for all multiplexed ﬂows.

 be the one associated with the highest

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

 that the

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8837

WebRTC QoS

January 2021

If a packet enters a network that has no support for a ﬂow-type-application priority combination
speciﬁed in Table 1, then the network node at the edge will remark the DSCP value based on
policies. This could result in the ﬂow not getting the network treatment it expects based on the
original DSCP value in the packet. Subsequently, if the packet enters a network that supports a
larger number of these combinations, there may not be suﬃcient information in the packet to
restore the original markings. Mechanisms for restoring such original DSCP is outside the scope
of this document.

In summary, DSCP marking provides neither guarantees nor promised levels of service.
However, DSCP marking is expected to provide a statistical improvement in real-time service as a
whole. The service provided to a packet is dependent upon the network design along the path, as
well as the network conditions at every hop.

6.  Security Considerations

Since the JavaScript application speciﬁes the ﬂow type and application priority that determine
the media ﬂow DSCP values used by the browser, the browser could consider application use of a
large number of higher priority ﬂows to be suspicious. If the server hosting the JavaScript
application is compromised, many browsers within the network might simultaneously transmit
ﬂows with the same DSCP marking. The Diﬀserv architecture requires ingress traﬃc
conditioning for reasons that include protecting the network from this sort of attack.

Otherwise, this speciﬁcation does not add any additional security implications beyond those
addressed in the following DSCP-related speciﬁcations. For security implications on use of DSCP,
please refer to
 as an
additional reference.

Section 7 of [RFC7657]

Section 6 of [RFC4594]

. Please also see

[RFC8826]

 and

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

8.  Downward References

. However, the
This speciﬁcation contains downwards references to
parts of the former RFCs used by this speciﬁcation are suﬃciently stable for these downward
references. The guidance in the latter RFC is necessary to understand the Diﬀserv technology
used in this document and the motivation for the recommended DSCP values and procedures.

[RFC7657]

[RFC4594]

 and

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8837

WebRTC QoS

January 2021

[RFC4594]

[RFC7657]

[RFC7742]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8622]

[RFC8826]

[RFC8831]

[RFC8834]

[RFC8835]

Babiarz, J., Chan, K., and F. Baker "Conﬁguration Guidelines for DiﬀServ Service
Classes" RFC 4594 DOI 10.17487/RFC4594
editor.org/info/rfc4594>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2006,

,

,

,

.

Black, D., Ed. and P. Jones "Diﬀerentiated Services (Diﬀserv) and Real-Time
,
Communication" RFC 7657 DOI 10.17487/RFC7657
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7657>

, November 2015,

<https://

,

.

Roach, A.B. "WebRTC Video Processing and Codec Requirements" RFC 7742 DOI
10.17487/RFC7742

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7742>

, March 2016,

.

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Bless, R. "A Lower-Eﬀort Per-Hop Behavior (LE PHB) for Diﬀerentiated
Services" RFC 8622 DOI 10.17487/RFC8622
editor.org/info/rfc8622>

<https://www.rfc-

, June 2019,

,

,

.

Rescorla, E. "Security Considerations for WebRTC" RFC 8826 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8826

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8826>

, January 2021,

.

,

,

,

,
Jesup, R., Loreto, S., and M. Tüxen "WebRTC Data Channels" RFC 8831 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8831>
10.17487/RFC8831

, January 2021,

,

,

,
Perkins, C., Westerlund, M., and J. Ott "Media Transport and Use of RTP in
WebRTC" RFC 8834 DOI 10.17487/RFC8834
editor.org/info/rfc8834>

, January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,
Alvestrand, H. "Transports for WebRTC" RFC 8835 DOI 10.17487/RFC8835
January 2021,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8835>

.

,

,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[G.1010]

[RFC2474]

[RFC2597]

[RFC3246]

,

ITU-T "End-user multimedia QoS categories" ITU-T Recommendation G.1010
November 2001,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-G.1010-200111-I/en>

,

.

,

Nichols, K., Blake, S., Baker, F., and D. Black "Deﬁnition of the Diﬀerentiated
Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers" RFC 2474 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2474

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2474>

, December 1998,

,

,

.

,

Heinanen, J., Baker, F., Weiss, W., and J. Wroclawski "Assured Forwarding PHB
Group" RFC 2597 DOI 10.17487/RFC2597
editor.org/info/rfc2597>

,
, June 1999,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

Davie, B., Charny, A., Bennet, J.C.R., Benson, K., Le Boudec, J.Y., Courtney, W.,
Davari, S., Firoiu, V., and D. Stiliadis "An Expedited Forwarding PHB (Per-Hop
,
,
Behavior)" RFC 3246 DOI 10.17487/RFC3246
editor.org/info/rfc3246>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2002,

,

.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8837

WebRTC QoS

January 2021

[RFC3550]

[RFC8699]

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
,
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

,

.

,

,

,
Islam, S., Welzl, M., and S. Gjessing "Coupled Congestion Control for RTP Media"
, January 2020,
RFC 8699 DOI 10.17487/RFC8699
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8699>

,
.

,

Acknowledgements

Thanks to
Nordmark Michael Tüxen

David Black Magnus Westerlund Paolo Severini Jim Hasselbrook Joe Marcus Erik
,

 for their invaluable input.

Brian Carpenter

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Dedication

This document is dedicated to the memory of
made important contributions to this speciﬁcation, including serving initially as one of the
primary authors. The IETF global community mourns his loss and he will be missed dearly.

, a long-time friend and colleague. James

James Polk

Authors' Addresses

Paul E. Jones
Cisco Systems
Email:

 paulej@packetizer.com

Subha Dhesikan
Individual
Email:

 sdhesikan@gmail.com

Cullen Jennings
Cisco Systems
Email:

 ﬂuﬀy@cisco.com

Dan Druta
AT&T
Email:

 dd5826@att.com

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

