Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8844
8122
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
M. Thomson
Mozilla

E. Rescorla
Mozilla

RFC 8844
Unknown Key-Share Attacks on Uses of TLS with the
Session Description Protocol (SDP)

Abstract

This document describes unknown key-share attacks on the use of Datagram Transport Layer
Security for the Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol (DTLS-SRTP). Similar attacks are described
on the use of DTLS-SRTP with the identity bindings used in Web Real-Time Communications
(WebRTC) and SIP identity. These attacks are diﬃcult to mount, but they cause a victim to be
misled about the identity of a communicating peer. This document deﬁnes mitigation techniques
that implementations of RFC 8122 are encouraged to deploy.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8844

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Unknown Key-Share Attack

2.1.  Limits on Attack Feasibility

2.2.  Interactions with Key Continuity

2.3.  Third-Party Call Control

3.  Unknown Key-Share Attack with Identity Bindings

3.1.  Example

3.2.  The external_id_hash TLS Extension

3.2.1.  Calculating external_id_hash for WebRTC Identity

3.2.2.  Calculating external_id_hash for PASSporT

4.  Unknown Key-Share Attack with Fingerprints

4.1.  Example

4.2.  Unique Session Identity Solution

4.3.  The external_session_id TLS Extension

5.  Session Concatenation

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

1.  Introduction

 and the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)

[SRTP]

 is deﬁned as DTLS-SRTP

[DTLS-

[TLS13]

 with the Session Description Protocol (SDP)

. Further use with Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)

 is deﬁned in

The use of Transport Layer Security (TLS)
[SDP]
[DTLS]
.
SRTP]

[FINGERPRINT]

In these speciﬁcations, key agreement is performed using TLS or DTLS, with authentication being
tied back to the session description (or SDP) through the use of certiﬁcate ﬁngerprints.
Communication peers check that a hash, or ﬁngerprint, provided in the SDP matches the
certiﬁcate that is used in the TLS or DTLS handshake.

Section 7 of [WEBRTC-SEC]

WebRTC identity (see
mechanism that binds an external identity to the certiﬁcate ﬁngerprints from a session
description. However, this binding is not integrity protected and is therefore vulnerable to an
identity misbinding attack, also known as an unknown key-share (UKS) attack, where the
attacker binds their identity to the ﬁngerprint of another entity. A successful attack leads to the
creation of sessions where peers are confused about the identity of the participants.

) and SIP identity

 both provide a

[SIP-ID]

This document describes a TLS extension that can be used in combination with these identity
bindings to prevent this attack.

A similar attack is possible with the use of certiﬁcate ﬁngerprints alone. Though attacks in this
setting are likely infeasible in existing deployments due to the narrow preconditions (see Section
2.1), this document also describes mitigations for this attack.

The mechanisms deﬁned in this document are intended to strengthen the protocol by preventing
the use of unknown key-share attacks in combination with other protocol or implementation
vulnerabilities. RFC 8122
these mechanisms.

 is updated by this document to recommend the use of

[FINGERPRINT]

 explains, many deployments that use SDP do not guarantee integrity of session

This document assumes that signaling is integrity protected. However, as
[FINGERPRINT]
signaling and so are vulnerable to other attacks.
mechanisms as a potential means of reducing exposure to attack in the absence of integrity
protection. Section 2.2 provides some analysis of the eﬀect of key continuity in relation to the
described attacks.

 oﬀers key continuity

[FINGERPRINT]

Section 7 of

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

2.  Unknown Key-Share Attack

In an unknown key-share attack
key that is in reality controlled by some other actor. This arises when the identity associated with
a key is not properly bound to the key.

, a malicious participant in a protocol claims to control a

[UKS]

An endpoint that can acquire the certiﬁcate ﬁngerprint of another entity can advertise that
ﬁngerprint as their own in SDP. An attacker can use a copy of that ﬁngerprint to cause a victim to
communicate with another unaware victim, even though the ﬁrst victim believes that it is
communicating with the attacker.

When the identity of communicating peers is established by higher-layer signaling constructs,
such as those in SIP identity
, this allows an attacker to bind
their own identity to a session with any other entity.

[WEBRTC-SEC]

 or WebRTC

[SIP-ID]

The attacker obtains an identity assertion for an identity it controls, but binds that to the
ﬁngerprint of one peer. The attacker is then able to cause a TLS connection to be established
where two victim endpoints communicate. The victim that has its ﬁngerprint copied by the
attack correctly believes that it is communicating with the other victim; however, the other
victim incorrectly believes that it is communicating with the attacker.

An unknown key-share attack does not result in the attacker having access to any conﬁdential
information exchanged between victims. However, the failure in mutual authentication can
enable other attacks. A victim might send information to the wrong entity as a result. Where
information is interpreted in context, misrepresenting that context could lead to the information
being misinterpreted.

A similar attack can be mounted based solely on the SDP fingerprint attribute
without compromising the integrity of the signaling channel.

[FINGERPRINT]

This attack is an aspect of SDP-based protocols upon which the technique known as third-party
call control (3PCC)
 relies. 3PCC exploits the potential for the identity of a signaling peer
to be diﬀerent than the media peer, allowing the media peer to be selected by the signaling peer.
Section 2.3 describes the consequences of the mitigations described here for systems that use
3PCC.

[RFC3725]

2.1.  Limits on Attack Feasibility

The use of TLS with SDP depends on the integrity of session signaling. Assuming signaling
integrity limits the capabilities of an attacker in several ways. In particular:

1.

An attacker can only modify the parts of the session signaling that they are responsible for
producing, namely their own oﬀers and answers.

2.

No entity will successfully establish a session with a peer unless they are willing to
participate in a session with that peer.

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

The combination of these two constraints make the spectrum of possible attacks quite limited. An
attacker is only able to switch its own certiﬁcate ﬁngerprint for a valid certiﬁcate that is
acceptable to its peer. Attacks therefore rely on joining two separate sessions into a single
session. Section 4 describes an attack on SDP signaling under these constraints.

Systems that rely on strong identity bindings, such as those deﬁned in
a diﬀerent threat model, which admits the possibility of attack by an entity with access to the
signaling channel. Attacks under these conditions are more feasible as an attacker is assumed to
be able both to observe and to modify signaling messages. Section 3 describes an attack that
assumes this threat model.

[WEBRTC]

[SIP-ID]

 or

, have

2.2.  Interactions with Key Continuity

Systems that use key continuity (as deﬁned in
Section 7 of [FINGERPRINT]
with either the attacker or the genuine peer (i.e., the victim whose ﬁngerprint was copied by an
attacker) was established in the past. Whether this is possible depends on how key continuity is
implemented.

) might be able to detect an unknown key-share attack if a session

 or as recommended in

Section 15.1 of [ZRTP]

Implementations that maintain a single database of identities with an index of peer keys could
discover that the identity saved for the peer key does not match the claimed identity. Such an
implementation could notice the disparity between the actual keys (those copied from a victim)
and the expected keys (those of the attacker).

In comparison, implementations that ﬁrst match based on peer identity could treat an unknown
key-share attack as though their peer had used a newly conﬁgured device. The apparent addition
of a new device could generate user-visible notices (e.g., "Mallory appears to have a new device").
However, such an event is not always considered alarming; some implementations might silently
save a new key.

2.3.  Third-Party Call Control

[RFC3725]

Third-party call control (3PCC)
that is terminated by a diﬀerent entity. An unknown key-share attack is very similar in eﬀect to
some 3PCC practices, so use of 3PCC could appear to be an attack. However, 3PCC that follows
RFC 3725 guidance is unaﬀected, and peers that are aware of changes made by a 3PCC controller
can correctly distinguish actions of a 3PCC controller from an attack.

 is a technique where a signaling peer establishes a call

3PCC as described in RFC 3725 is incompatible with SIP identity
, as SIP Identity relies on
creating a binding between SIP requests and SDP. The controller is the only entity that generates
SIP requests in RFC 3725. Therefore, in a 3PCC context, only the use of the fingerprint attribute
without additional bindings or WebRTC identity

[WEBRTC-SEC]

 is possible.

[SIP-ID]

The attack mitigation mechanisms described in this document will prevent the use of 3PCC if
peers have diﬀerent views of the involved identities or the value of SDP tls-id attributes.

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

For 3PCC to work with the proposed mechanisms, TLS peers need to be aware of the signaling so
that they can correctly generate and check the TLS extensions. For a connection to be
successfully established, a 3PCC controller needs either to forward SDP without modiﬁcation or
to avoid modiﬁcations to fingerprint, tls-id, and identity attributes. A controller that
follows the best practices in RFC 3725 is expected to forward SDP without modiﬁcation, thus
ensuring the integrity of these attributes.

3.  Unknown Key-Share Attack with Identity Bindings

The identity assertions used for WebRTC (
Token (PASSporT) used in SIP identity (
,
ﬁngerprint of an endpoint. An attacker can cause an identity binding to be created that binds an
identity they control to the ﬁngerprint of a ﬁrst victim.

) are bound to the certiﬁcate

Section 7 of [WEBRTC-SEC]

) and the Personal Assertion

[SIP-ID] [PASSPORT]

An attacker can thereby cause a second victim to believe that they are communicating with an
attacker-controlled identity, when they are really talking to the ﬁrst victim. The attacker does this
by creating an identity assertion that covers a certiﬁcate ﬁngerprint of the ﬁrst victim.

A variation on the same technique can be used to cause both victims to believe they are talking
to the attacker when they are talking to each other. In this case, the attacker performs the
identity misbinding once for each victim.

The authority certifying the identity binding is not required to verify that the entity requesting
the binding actually controls the keys associated with the ﬁngerprints, and this might appear to
be the cause of the problem. SIP and WebRTC identity providers are not required to perform this
validation.

A simple solution to this problem is suggested by
under a message authentication code (MAC) during the cryptographic handshake. Endpoints
then validate that their peer has provided an identity that matches their expectations. In TLS, the
Finished message provides a MAC over the entire handshake, so that including the identity in a
TLS extension is suﬃcient to implement this solution.

. The identity of endpoints is included

[SIGMA]

Rather than include a complete identity binding, which could be sizable, a collision- and
preimage-resistant hash of the binding is included in a TLS extension as described in Section 3.2.
Endpoints then need only validate that the extension contains a hash of the identity binding they
received in signaling. If the identity binding is successfully validated, the identity of a peer is
veriﬁed and bound to the session.

This form of unknown key-share attack is possible without compromising signaling integrity,
unless the defenses described in Section 4 are used. In order to prevent both forms of attack,
 use the external_session_id extension (see Section 4.3) in addition to the
endpoints
external_id_hash (Section 3.2) so that two calls between the same parties can't be altered by an
attacker.

MUST

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

3.1.  Example

In the example shown in Figure 1, it is assumed that the attacker also controls the signaling
channel.

Mallory (the attacker) presents two victims, Norma and Patsy, with two separate sessions. In the
ﬁrst session, Norma is presented with the option to communicate with Mallory; a second session
with Norma is presented to Patsy.

  Norma                   Mallory                   Patsy
  (fp=N)                   -----                    (fp=P)
    |                        |                        |
    |<---- Signaling1 ------>|                        |
    |   Norma=N Mallory=P    |                        |
    |                        |<---- Signaling2 ------>|
    |                        |   Norma=N Patsy=P      |
    |                                                 |
    |<=================DTLS (fp=N,P)=================>|
    |                                                 |
  (peer = Mallory!)                         (peer = Norma)

Figure 1: Example Attack on Identity Bindings

The attack requires that Mallory obtain an identity binding for her own identity with the
ﬁngerprints presented by Patsy (P), which Mallory might have obtained previously. This false
binding is then presented to Norma ('Signaling1' in Figure 1).

Patsy could be similarly duped, but in this example, a correct binding between Norma's identity
and ﬁngerprint (N) is faithfully presented by Mallory. This session ('Signaling2' in Figure 1) can
be entirely legitimate.

A DTLS session is established directly between Norma and Patsy. In order for this to happen,
Mallory can substitute transport-level information in both sessions, though this is not necessary
if Mallory is on the network path between Norma and Patsy.

As a result, Patsy correctly believes that she is communicating with Norma. However, Norma
incorrectly believes that she is talking to Mallory. As stated in Section 2, Mallory cannot access
media, but Norma might send information to Patsy that Norma might not intend or that Patsy
might misinterpret.

3.2.  The external_id_hash TLS Extension

The external_id_hash TLS extension carries a hash of the identity assertion that the endpoint
sending the extension has asserted to its peer. Both peers include a hash of their own identity
assertion.

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

The extension_data for the external_id_hash extension contains a ExternalIdentityHash
struct, described below using the syntax deﬁned in

Section 3 of [TLS13]
:

   struct {
      opaque binding_hash<0..32>;
   } ExternalIdentityHash;

Where an identity assertion has been asserted by a peer, this extension includes a SHA- 256 hash
of the assertion. An empty value is used to indicate support for the extension.

Note:

For both types of identity assertion, if SHA- 256 should prove to be inadequate in the

future (see

[AGILITY]

), a new TLS extension that uses a diﬀerent hash function can be deﬁned.

Identity bindings might be provided by only one peer. An endpoint that does not produce an
 generate an empty external_id_hash extension in its ClientHello or -- if a
identity binding
client provides the extension -- in ServerHello or EncryptedExtensions. An empty extension has a
zero-length binding_hash ﬁeld.

MUST

A peer that receives an external_id_hash extension that does not match the value of the
identity binding from its peer
illegal_parameter alert. The absence of an identity binding does not relax this requirement; if
a peer provided no identity binding, a zero-length extension
valid.

 immediately fail the TLS handshake with an

 be present to be considered

MUST

MUST

Implementations written prior to the deﬁnition of the extensions in this document will not
support this extension for some time. A peer that receives an identity binding but does not
receive an external_id_hash extension
connection where the extension is absent.

 accept a TLS connection rather than fail a

MAY

The endpoint performs the validation of the external_id_hash extension in addition to the
validation required by
SEC] [SIP-ID]
Section 4.3.

 and any veriﬁcation of the identity assertion
 validate any external_session_id value that is present; see

[FINGERPRINT]

. An endpoint

MUST

[WEBRTC-

An external_id_hash extension with a binding_hash ﬁeld that is any length other than 0 or 32
is invalid and

 cause the receiving endpoint to generate a fatal decode_error alert.

MUST

In TLS 1.3, an external_id_hash extension sent by a server
EncryptedExtensions message.

MUST

 be sent in the

3.2.1.  Calculating external_id_hash for WebRTC Identity

Section 7 of [WEBRTC-SEC]

A WebRTC identity assertion (
is encoded into a JSON text. The JSON text is encoded using UTF-8
8.1 of [JSON]
resulting octets with SHA- 256
which is the sole contents of the extension.

 as described by
. The content of the external_id_hash extension is produced by hashing the

) is provided as a JSON

. This produces the 32 octets of the binding_hash parameter,

 object that
Section

[UTF8]

[JSON]

[SHA]

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

The SDP identity attribute includes the base64
same JSON text. The external_id_hash extension is validated by performing base64 decoding on
the value of the SDP identity attribute, hashing the resulting octets using SHA- 256, and
comparing the results with the content of the extension. In pseudocode form, using the
identity-assertion-value ﬁeld from the SDP identity attribute grammar as deﬁned in
[WEBRTC-SEC]

 encoding of the UTF-8 encoding of the

[BASE64]

:

external_id_hash = SHA-256(b64decode(identity-assertion-value))

Note:

The base64 of the SDP identity attribute is decoded to avoid capturing variations in
padding. The base64-decoded identity assertion could include leading or trailing whitespace
octets. WebRTC identity assertions are not canonicalized; all octets are hashed.

3.2.2.  Calculating external_id_hash for PASSporT

Where the compact form of PASSporT
form. The base64 encoding used in the SIP Identity (or 'y') header ﬁeld
 be decoded then
used as input to SHA- 256. This produces the 32-octet binding_hash value used for creating or
validating the extension. In pseudocode, using the signed-identity-digest parameter from the
:
Identity header ﬁeld grammar deﬁned

 be expanded into the full

[PASSPORT]

 is used, it

[SIP-ID]

MUST

MUST

external_id_hash = SHA-256(b64decode(signed-identity-digest))

4.  Unknown Key-Share Attack with Fingerprints

An attack on DTLS-SRTP is possible because the identity of peers involved is not established prior
to establishing the call. Endpoints use certiﬁcate ﬁngerprints as a proxy for authentication, but as
long as ﬁngerprints are used in multiple calls, they are vulnerable to attack.

Even if the integrity of session signaling can be relied upon, an attacker might still be able to
create a session where there is confusion about the communicating endpoints by substituting the
ﬁngerprint of a communicating endpoint.

An endpoint that is conﬁgured to reuse a certiﬁcate can be attacked if it is willing to initiate two
calls at the same time, one of which is with an attacker. The attacker can arrange for the victim
to incorrectly believe that it is calling the attacker when it is in fact calling a second party. The
second party correctly believes that it is talking to the victim.

As with the attack on identity bindings, this can be used to cause two victims to both believe they
are talking to the attacker when they are talking to each other.

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

4.1.  Example

To mount this attack, two sessions need to be created with the same endpoint at almost precisely
the same time. One of those sessions is initiated with the attacker, the second session is created
toward another honest endpoint. The attacker convinces the ﬁrst endpoint that their session with
the attacker has been successfully established, but media is exchanged with the other honest
endpoint. The attacker permits the session with the other honest endpoint to complete only to
the extent necessary to convince the other honest endpoint to participate in the attacked session.

In addition to the constraints described in Section 2.1, the attacker in this example also needs the
ability to view and drop packets between victims. That is, the attacker needs to be on path for
media.

The attack shown in Figure 2 depends on a somewhat implausible set of conditions. It is intended
to demonstrate what sort of attack is possible and what conditions are necessary to exploit this
weakness in the protocol.

  Norma                   Mallory                 Patsy
  (fp=N)                   -----                  (fp=P)
    |                        |                      |
    +---Signaling1 (fp=N)--->|                      |
    +-----Signaling2 (fp=N)------------------------>|
    |<-------------------------Signaling2 (fp=P)----+
    |<---Signaling1 (fp=P)---+                      |
    |                        |                      |
    |=======DTLS1=======>(Forward)======DTLS1======>|
    |<======DTLS2========(Forward)<=====DTLS2=======|
    |=======Media1======>(Forward)======Media1=====>|
    |<======Media2=======(Forward)<=====Media2======|
    |                       |                       |
    |=======DTLS2========>(Drop)                    |
    |                       |                       |

Figure 2: Example Attack Scenario Using Fingerprints

In this scenario, there are two sessions initiated at the same time by Norma. Signaling is shown
with single lines ('-'), DTLS and media with double lines ('=').

The ﬁrst session is established with Mallory, who falsely uses Patsy's certiﬁcate ﬁngerprint
(denoted with 'fp=P'). A second session is initiated between Norma and Patsy. Signaling for both
sessions is permitted to complete.

Once signaling is complete on the ﬁrst session, a DTLS connection is established. Ostensibly, this
connection is between Mallory and Norma, but Mallory forwards DTLS and media packets sent
to her by Norma to Patsy. These packets are denoted 'DTLS1' because Norma associates these
with the ﬁrst signaling session ('Signaling1').

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

Mallory also intercepts packets from Patsy and forwards those to Norma at the transport address
that Norma associates with Mallory. These packets are denoted 'DTLS2' to indicate that Patsy
associates these with the second signaling session ('Signaling2'); however, Norma will interpret
these as being associated with the ﬁrst signaling session ('Signaling1').

The second signaling exchange ('Signaling2'), which is between Norma and Patsy, is permitted to
continue to the point where Patsy believes that it has succeeded. This ensures that Patsy believes
that she is communicating with Norma. In the end, Norma believes that she is communicating
with Mallory, when she is really communicating with Patsy. Just like the example in Section 3.1,
Mallory cannot access media, but Norma might send information to Patsy that Norma might not
intend or that Patsy might misinterpret.

Though Patsy needs to believe that the second signaling session has been successfully
established, Mallory has no real interest in seeing that session also be established. Mallory only
needs to ensure that Patsy maintains the active session and does not abandon the session
prematurely. For this reason, it might be necessary to permit the signaling from Patsy to reach
Norma in order to allow Patsy to receive a call setup completion signal, such as a SIP ACK. Once
the second session is established, Mallory might cause DTLS packets sent by Norma to Patsy to be
dropped. However, if Mallory allows DTLS packets to pass, it is likely that Patsy will discard them
as Patsy will already have a successful DTLS connection established.

For the attacked session to be sustained beyond the point that Norma detects errors in the second
session, Mallory also needs to block any signaling that Norma might send to Patsy asking for the
call to be abandoned. Otherwise, Patsy might receive a notice that the call has failed and thereby
abort the call.

This attack creates an asymmetry in the beliefs about the identity of peers. However, this attack
is only possible if the victim (Norma) is willing to conduct two sessions nearly simultaneously; if
the attacker (Mallory) is on the network path between the victims; and if the same certiﬁcate --
and therefore the SDP fingerprint attribute value -- is used by Norma for both sessions.

 is used, Mallory also needs to ensure
Where Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)
that connectivity checks between Patsy and Norma succeed, either by forwarding checks or by
answering and generating the necessary messages.

[ICE]

4.2.  Unique Session Identity Solution

The solution to this problem is to assign a new identiﬁer to communicating peers. Each endpoint
assigns their peer a unique identiﬁer during call signaling. The peer echoes that identiﬁer in the
TLS handshake, binding that identity into the session. Including this new identity in the TLS
handshake means that it will be covered by the TLS Finished message, which is necessary to
authenticate it (see

[SIGMA]

).

Successfully validating that the identiﬁer matches the expected value means that the connection
corresponds to the signaled session and is therefore established between the correct two
endpoints.

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

This solution relies on the unique identiﬁer given to DTLS sessions using the SDP tls-id
attribute
from the same client will have the same value.

. This ﬁeld is already required to be unique. Thus, no two oﬀers or answers

[DTLS-SDP]

A new external_session_id extension is added to the TLS or DTLS handshake for connections
that are established as part of the same call or real-time session. This carries the value of the
tls-id attribute and provides integrity protection for its exchange as part of the TLS or DTLS
handshake.

4.3.  The external_session_id TLS Extension

The external_session_id TLS extension carries the unique identiﬁer that an endpoint selects.
 include the tls-id attribute from the SDP that the
When used with SDP, the value
endpoint generated when negotiating the session. This document only deﬁnes use of this
extension for SDP; other methods of external session negotiation can use this extension to
include a unique session identiﬁer.

MUST

The extension_data for the external_session_id extension contains an ExternalSessionId
struct, described below using the syntax deﬁned in

[TLS13]

:

   struct {
      opaque session_id<20..255>;
   } ExternalSessionId;

For SDP, the session_id ﬁeld of the extension includes the value of the tls-id SDP attribute as
deﬁned in
[DTLS-SDP]
attribute is encoded using ASCII

 (that is, the tls-id-value ABNF production). The value of the tls-id

[ASCII]

.

[RTP]

Where RTP and RTCP
connections carrying RTP and RTCP can be switched. This is considered benign since these
protocols are designed to be distinguishable as SRTP
RTCP multiplexing

[SRTP]
 further avoids this problem.

 are not multiplexed, it is possible that the two separate DTLS

[RTCP-MUX]

 provides key separation. Using RTP/

The external_session_id extension is included in a ClientHello, and if the extension is present
in the ClientHello, either ServerHello (for TLS and DTLS versions older than 1.3) or
EncryptedExtensions (for TLS 1.3).

MUST

 check that the session_id parameter in the extension that they receive includes

Endpoints
the tls-id attribute value that they received in their peer's session description. Endpoints can
perform string comparison by ASCII decoding the TLS extension value and comparing it to the
SDP attribute value or by comparing the encoded TLS extension octets with the encoded SDP
attribute value. An endpoint that receives an external_session_id extension that is not
identical to the value that it expects
alert.

 abort the connection with a fatal illegal_parameter

MUST

The endpoint performs the validation of the external_id_hash extension in addition to the
validation required by

[FINGERPRINT]

.

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

If an endpoint communicates with a peer that does not support this extension, it will receive a
ClientHello, ServerHello, or EncryptedExtensions message that does not include this extension.
An endpoint
with peers that do not implement this speciﬁcation.

 choose to continue a session without this extension in order to interoperate

MAY

In TLS 1.3, an external_session_id extension sent by a server
EncryptedExtensions message.

MUST

 be sent in the

This defense is not eﬀective if an attacker can rewrite tls-id values in signaling. Only the
mechanism in external_id_hash is able to defend against an attacker that can compromise
session integrity.

5.  Session Concatenation

Use of session identiﬁers does not prevent an attacker from establishing two concurrent sessions
with diﬀerent peers and forwarding signaling from those peers to each other. Concatenating two
signaling sessions in this way creates two signaling sessions, with two session identiﬁers, but
only the TLS connections from a single session are established as a result. In doing so, the
attacker creates a situation where both peers believe that they are talking to the attacker when
they are talking to each other.

In the absence of any higher-level concept of peer identity, an attacker who is able to copy the
session identiﬁer from one signaling session to another can cause the peers to establish a direct
TLS connection even while they think that they are connecting to the attacker. This diﬀers from
the attack described in the previous section in that there is only one TLS connection rather than
two. This kind of attack is prevented by systems that enable peer authentication, such as WebRTC
identity
[SIP-ID]
establishing two back-to-back connections as described in the previous paragraph.

; however, these systems do not prevent

 or SIP identity

[WEBRTC-SEC]

Use of the external_session_id does not guarantee that the identity of the peer at the TLS layer
is the same as the identity of the signaling peer. The advantage that an attacker gains by
concatenating sessions is limited unless data is exchanged based on the assumption that
signaling and TLS peers are the same. If a secondary protocol uses the signaling channel with the
assumption that the signaling and TLS peers are the same, then that protocol is vulnerable to
attack. While out of scope for this document, a signaling system that can defend against session
concatenation requires that the signaling layer is authenticated and bound to any TLS
connections.

It is important to note that multiple connections can be created within the same signaling
session. An attacker might concatenate only part of a session, choosing to terminate some
connections (and optionally forward data) while arranging to have peers interact directly for
other connections. It is even possible to have diﬀerent peers interact for each connection. This
means that the actual identity of the peer for one connection might diﬀer from the peer on
another connection.

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

Critically, information about the identity of TLS peers provides no assurances about the identity
of signaling peers and does not transfer between TLS connections in the same session.
Information extracted from a TLS connection therefore
protocol outside of that connection if that protocol assumes that the signaling protocol has the
same peers. Similarly, security-sensitive information from one TLS connection
in other TLS connections even if they are established as a result of the same signaling session.

 be used in a secondary

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

 be used

6.  Security Considerations

When combined with identity assertions, the mitigations in this document ensure that there is no
opportunity to misrepresent the identity of TLS peers. This assurance is provided even if an
attacker can modify signaling messages.

Without identity assertions, the mitigations in this document prevent the session splicing attack
described in Section 4. Defense against session concatenation (Section 5) additionally requires
that protocol peers are not able to claim the certiﬁcate ﬁngerprints of other entities.

7.  IANA Considerations

This document registers two extensions in the "TLS ExtensionType Values" registry established in
[TLS13]

:

•

The external_id_hash extension deﬁned in Section 3.2 has been assigned a code point of 55;
it is recommended and is marked as "CH, EE" in TLS 1.3.

•

The external_session_id extension deﬁned in Section 4.3 has been assigned a code point
of 56; it is recommended and is marked as "CH, EE" in TLS 1.3.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[ASCII]

[BASE64]

[DTLS]

[DTLS-SDP]

,
Cerf, V. "ASCII format for network interchange" STD 80 RFC 20 DOI 10.17487/
RFC0020

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc20>

, October 1969,

,
.

,

,

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

Rescorla, E. and N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
, January 2012,
rfc6347>

,
.

,

Holmberg, C. and R. Shpount "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer
Considerations for Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) and Transport
Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 8842 DOI 10.17487/RFC8842
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8842>

, January 2021,

<https://

.

,

,

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

[DTLS-SRTP]

Fischl, J., Tschofenig, H., and E. Rescorla "Framework for Establishing a Secure
,
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) Security Context Using Datagram Transport
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 5763 DOI 10.17487/RFC5763
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5763>
.

, May 2010,

<https://

,

[FINGERPRINT]

Lennox, J. and C. Holmberg "Connection-Oriented Media Transport over the

,

Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol in the Session Description Protocol
(SDP)" RFC 8122 DOI 10.17487/RFC8122
editor.org/info/rfc8122>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2017,

,

,

.

[JSON]

[PASSPORT]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[SDP]

[SHA]

[SIP-ID]

[SRTP]

[TLS13]

[UTF8]

[WEBRTC-SEC]

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Wendt, C. and J. Peterson "PASSporT: Personal Assertion Token" RFC 8225 DOI
10.17487/RFC8225

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8225>

,
, February 2018,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. and T. Hansen "US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and SHA-
based HMAC and HKDF)" RFC 6234 DOI 10.17487/RFC6234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6234>

, May 2011,

,

,

.

,

<https://

Peterson, J., Jennings, C., Rescorla, E., and C. Wendt "Authenticated Identity
Management in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 8224 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8224

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8224>

, February 2018,

,

,

.

,

Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K. Norrman "The Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, March

,
.

,

,

,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

,
Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

.

,

,

,
Rescorla, E. "WebRTC Security Architecture" RFC 8827 DOI 10.17487/RFC8827
January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8827>

,
.

,

,

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

8.2.  Informative References

[AGILITY]

[ICE]

[RFC3725]

[RTCP-MUX]

[RTP]

[SIGMA]

[UKS]

[WEBRTC]

[ZRTP]

,

Housley, R. "Guidelines for Cryptographic Algorithm Agility and Selecting
Mandatory-to-Implement Algorithms" BCP 201 RFC 7696 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7696

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7696>

, November 2015,

,

.

,

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

Rosenberg, J., Peterson, J., Schulzrinne, H., and G. Camarillo "Best Current
Practices for Third Party Call Control (3pcc) in the Session Initiation Protocol
,
(SIP)" BCP 85 RFC 3725 DOI 10.17487/RFC3725
<https://www.rfc-
.
editor.org/info/rfc3725>

, April 2004,

,

,

,

Perkins, C. and M. Westerlund "Multiplexing RTP Data and Control Packets on a
,
,
Single Port" RFC 5761 DOI 10.17487/RFC5761
editor.org/info/rfc5761>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2010,

.

,

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
,
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

.

,

,

,

,

,

Krawczyk, H. "SIGMA: The 'SIGn-and-MAc' Approach to Authenticated Diﬃe-
Hellman and Its Use in the IKE Protocols" Advances in Cryptology -- CRYPTO
2003 Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol. 2729 DOI
10.1007/978-3-540-45146-4_24
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-45146-4_24>

,
<https://

, August 2003,

,
,

,

.

Blake-Wilson, S. and A. Menezes "Unknown Key-Share Attacks on the Station-to-
Station (STS) Protocol" Public Key Cryptography Lecture Notes in Computer
,
Science Vol. 1560 DOI 10.1007/3-540-49162-7_12
doi.org/10.1007/3-540-49162-7_12>

,
, March 1999,

<https://

,

.

,

,

Jennings, C., Boström, H., and J-I. Bruaroey "WebRTC 1.0: Real-time
Communication Between Browsers" W3C Proposed Recommendation <https://
www.w3.org/TR/webrtc/>

,

,

.

,

Zimmermann, P., Johnston, A., Ed., and J. Callas "ZRTP: Media Path Key
,
Agreement for Unicast Secure RTP" RFC 6189 DOI 10.17487/RFC6189
2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6189>

.

,

, April

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8844

SDP UKS

January 2021

Acknowledgements

Richard Barnes

, and
Karthik Bhargavan

This problem would not have been discovered if it weren't for discussions with
Krawczyk
by
assisted with a formal model of the solution.
review and input.

, who provided valuable input on this document.

Sam Scott Hugo
. A solution similar to the one presented here was ﬁrst proposed

Thyla van der Merwe

 provided signiﬁcant

Paul E. Jones

Adam Roach

 and

,

Authors' Addresses

Martin Thomson
Mozilla
Email:

 mt@lowentropy.net

Eric Rescorla
Mozilla
Email:

 ekr@rtfm.com

Thomson & Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 17

