Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8689
Standards Track
November 2019
2070-1721
J. Fenton
Altmode Networks

RFC 8689
SMTP Require TLS Option

Abstract

The SMTP STARTTLS option, used in negotiating transport-level encryption of SMTP connections,
is not as useful from a security standpoint as it might be because of its opportunistic nature;
message delivery is, by default, prioritized over security. This document describes an SMTP
service extension, REQUIRETLS, and a message header ﬁeld, TLS-Required. If the REQUIRETLS
option or TLS-Required message header ﬁeld is used when sending a message, it asserts a request
on the part of the message sender to override the default negotiation of TLS, either by requiring
that TLS be negotiated when the message is relayed or by requesting that recipient-side policy
mechanisms such as MTA-STS and DNS-Based Authentication of Named Entities (DANE) be
ignored when relaying a message for which security is unimportant.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8689
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2019 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  The REQUIRETLS Service Extension

3.  The TLS-Required Header Field

4.  REQUIRETLS Semantics

4.1.  REQUIRETLS Receipt Requirements

4.2.  REQUIRETLS Sender Requirements

4.2.1.  Sending with TLS Required

4.2.2.  Sending with TLS Optional

4.3.  REQUIRETLS Submission

4.4.  Delivery of REQUIRETLS messages

5.  Non-delivery Message Handling

6.  Reorigination Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Passive Attacks

8.2.  Active Attacks

8.3.  Bad-Actor MTAs

8.4.  Policy Conﬂicts

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Examples

A.1.  REQUIRETLS SMTP Option

A.2.  TLS-Required Header Field

Acknowledgements

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

SMTP [RFC5321] STARTTLS service extension [RFC3207]

The
server and client can establish a Transport Layer Security (TLS) protected session for the
transmission of email messages. By default, TLS is used only upon mutual agreement (successful
negotiation) of STARTTLS between the client and server; if this is not possible, the message is sent
without transport encryption. Furthermore, it is common practice for the client to negotiate TLS
even if the SMTP server's certiﬁcate is invalid.

 provides a means by which an SMTP

DANE [RFC7672]

Policy mechanisms such as
 may impose requirements
for the use of TLS for email destined for some domains. However, such policies do not allow the
sender to specify which messages are more sensitive and require transport-level encryption and
which ones are less sensitive and ought to be relayed even if TLS cannot be negotiated
successfully.

MTA-STS [RFC8461]

 and

The default opportunistic nature of SMTP TLS enables several on-the-wire attacks on SMTP
security between MTAs. These include passive eavesdropping on connections for which TLS is
not used, interference in the SMTP protocol to prevent TLS from being negotiated (presumably
accompanied by eavesdropping), and insertion of a man-in-the-middle attacker exploiting the
lack of server authentication by the client. Attacks are described in more detail in the Security
Considerations section of this document.

 be sent over a TLS-protected session with speciﬁed security characteristics. It also requires

REQUIRETLS consists of two mechanisms: an SMTP service extension and a message header ﬁeld.
The service extension is used to specify that a given message sent during a particular session
MUST
that the SMTP server advertise that it supports REQUIRETLS, in eﬀect promising that it will
honor the requirement to enforce TLS transmission and REQUIRETLS support for onward
transmission of those messages.

The TLS-Required message header ﬁeld is used to convey a request to ignore recipient-side policy
mechanisms such as MTA-STS and DANE, thereby prioritizing delivery over ability to negotiate
TLS. Unlike the service extension, the TLS-Required header ﬁeld allows the message to transit
through one or more MTAs that do not support REQUIRETLS.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

The formal syntax uses the Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF)
rules deﬁned in Appendix B of that document.

[RFC5234]

, including the core

2.  The REQUIRETLS Service Extension

The REQUIRETLS SMTP service extension has the following characteristics:

1. The textual name of the extension is "Require TLS".

2. The EHLO keyword value associated with this extension is "REQUIRETLS".

3. No additional SMTP verbs are deﬁned by this extension.

4. One optional parameter ("REQUIRETLS") is added to the MAIL FROM command by this

extension. No value is associated with this parameter.

5. The maximum length of a MAIL FROM command line is increased by 11 octets by the

possible addition of a space and the REQUIRETLS keyword.

6. One new SMTP status code is deﬁned by this extension to convey an error condition

resulting from failure of the client to send data to a server that does not also support the
REQUIRETLS extension.

7. The REQUIRETLS extension is valid for message relay

[RFC5321]

the Local Mail Transfer Protocol (LMTP)

[RFC2033]

.

8. The ABNF syntax for the MAIL FROM parameter is as follows:

, submission

[RFC6409]

, and

requiretls-param  = "REQUIRETLS"
                ; where requiretls-param is an instance of an
                ; esmtp-param used in Mail-parameters in
                ; RFC 5321, Section 4.1.2. There is no esmtp-value
                ; associated with requiretls-param.

In order to specify REQUIRETLS treatment for a given message, the REQUIRETLS option is
speciﬁed in the MAIL FROM command when that message is transmitted. This option
be speciﬁed in the context of an SMTP session meeting the security requirements of
REQUIRETLS:

MUST

 only

• The session itself

MUST

 employ TLS transmission.

• If the SMTP server to which the message is being transmitted is identiﬁed through an MX

record lookup, its name
MX record, or the MX hostname
Section 4.1 of [RFC8461]

MUST

MUST
. DNSSEC is deﬁned in

 be validated by an MTA-STS policy as described in

,
[RFC4033] [RFC4034]

, and

[RFC4035]

.

 be validated via a DNSSEC signature on the recipient domain's

• The certiﬁcate presented by the SMTP server either

MUST

chain leading to a certiﬁcate trusted by the SMTP client, or it
using DANE, as speciﬁed in
certiﬁcates is at the discretion of the SMTP client.

[RFC7672]

. For trust chains, the choice of trusted (root)

 be veriﬁed successfully by a trust
 be veriﬁed successfully

MUST

• Following the negotiation of STARTTLS, the SMTP server

MUST

 advertise in the subsequent

EHLO response that it supports REQUIRETLS.

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

3.  The TLS-Required Header Field

One new message header ﬁeld
for messages for which the originator requests that the recipient TLS policy (including
[RFC8461]
misconﬁgured mail server, such as an expired TLS certiﬁcate.

) be ignored. This might be done, for example, to report a

DANE [RFC7672]

, TLS-Required, is deﬁned by this speciﬁcation. It is used

[RFC5322]

MTA-STS

 and

The TLS-Required header ﬁeld has a single

REQUIRED

 parameter:

• No - The SMTP client

SHOULD

 attempt to send the message regardless of its ability to

negotiate STARTTLS with the SMTP server, ignoring policy-based mechanisms (including
MTA-STS and DANE), if any, asserted by the recipient domain. Nevertheless, the client
SHOULD

 negotiate STARTTLS with the server if available.

More than one instance of the TLS-Required header ﬁeld

MUST NOT

 appear in a given message.

The ABNF syntax for the TLS-Required header ﬁeld is as follows:

requiretls-field = "TLS-Required:" [FWS] "No" CRLF
        ; where requiretls-field in an instance of an
        ; optional-field defined in RFC 5322, Section 3.6.8.
FWS = <as defined in RFC 5322>
CRLF = <as defined in RFC 5234>

4.  REQUIRETLS Semantics

4.1.  REQUIRETLS Receipt Requirements

Upon receipt of the REQUIRETLS option on a MAIL FROM command during the receipt of a
message, an SMTP server

 tag that message as needing REQUIRETLS handling.

MUST

Upon receipt of a message not specifying the REQUIRETLS option on its MAIL FROM command
but containing the TLS-Required header ﬁeld in its message header, an SMTP server
implementing this speciﬁcation
Required header ﬁeld. If the REQUIRETLS MAIL FROM parameter is speciﬁed, the TLS-Required
header ﬁeld

 tag that message with the option speciﬁed in the TLS-

 be included in the onward relay of the message.

 be ignored but

MUST

MUST

MAY

The manner in which the above tagging takes place is implementation dependent. If the message
is being locally aliased and redistributed to multiple addresses, all instances of the message
MUST
be tagged in the same manner.

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

4.2.  REQUIRETLS Sender Requirements

4.2.1.  Sending with TLS Required

When sending a message tagged as requiring TLS for which the MAIL FROM return-path is not
empty (an empty MAIL FROM return-path indicating a bounce message), the sending (client)
MTA

MUST

:

1. Look up the SMTP server to which the message is to be sent, as described in

[RFC5321],

Section 5.1

.

2. If the server lookup is accomplished via the recipient domain's MX record (the usual case)

and is not accompanied by a valid DNSSEC signature, the client
server name using MTA-STS, as described in

[RFC8461], Section 4.1

MUST
.

 also validate the SMTP

3. Open an SMTP session with the peer SMTP server using the EHLO verb.

4. Establish a TLS-protected SMTP session with its peer SMTP server and authenticate the

server's certiﬁcate as speciﬁed in
the MX record lookup (or the domain name in the absence of an MX record where an A
record is used directly)
server.

 match the DNS-ID or CN-ID of the certiﬁcate presented by the

, as applicable. The hostname from

[RFC7672]

[RFC6125]

MUST

 or

5. Ensure that the response to the subsequent EHLO following establishment of the TLS

protection advertises the REQUIRETLS capability.

The SMTP client
to negotiation of the TLS session.

SHOULD

 follow the recommendations in

[RFC7525]

 or its successor with respect

If any of the above steps fail, the client
each host on the recipient domain's list of MX hosts in an attempt to ﬁnd a mail path that meets
 send other, unprotected messages to that server if it
the sender's requirements. The client
has any such messages prior to issuing the QUIT. If there are no more MX hosts, the client
MUST
NOT

 issue a QUIT to the server and repeat steps 2-5 with

 transmit the message to the domain.

MUST

MAY

Following such a failure, the SMTP client
path of the failed message, as described in
[RFC5248] SHOULD

 be used:

MUST

 send a non-delivery notiﬁcation to the reverse-
status codes

. The following

Section 3.6 of [RFC5321]

• REQUIRETLS not supported by server: 5.7.30 REQUIRETLS support required

• Unable to establish TLS-protected SMTP session: 5.7.10 Encryption needed

Refer to Section 5 for further requirements regarding non-delivery messages.

If all REQUIRETLS requirements have been met, transmit the message, issuing the REQUIRETLS
option on the MAIL FROM command with the required option(s), if any.

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

4.2.2.  Sending with TLS Optional

Messages tagged "TLS-Required: No" are handled as follows. When sending such a message, the
sending (client) MTA

MUST

:

• Look up the SMTP server to which the message is to be sent, as described in

[RFC5321],

Section 5.1

.

• Open an SMTP session with the peer SMTP server using the EHLO verb. Attempt to negotiate
STARTTLS if possible, and follow any policy published by the recipient domain, but do not
fail if this is unsuccessful.

Some SMTP servers may be conﬁgured to require STARTTLS connections as a matter of policy
and not accept messages in the absence of STARTTLS. A non-delivery notiﬁcation
returned to the sender if message relay fails due to an inability to negotiate STARTTLS when
required by the server.

MUST

 be

Since messages tagged with "TLS-Required: No" will sometimes be sent to SMTP servers not
supporting REQUIRETLS, that option will not be uniformly observed by all SMTP relay hops.

4.3.  REQUIRETLS Submission

A Mail User Agent (MUA) or other agent making the initial introduction of a message has the
option to decide whether to require TLS. If TLS is to be required, it
 do so by negotiating
STARTTLS and REQUIRETLS and including the REQUIRETLS option on the MAIL FROM command,
as is done for message relay.

MUST

When TLS is not to be required, the sender
message. SMTP servers implementing this speciﬁcation
described in Section 4.1.

MUST

 include the TLS-Required header ﬁeld in the

MUST

 interpret this header ﬁeld as

In either case, the decision whether to specify REQUIRETLS
interface selection or based on a ruleset or other policy. The manner in which the decision to
require TLS is made is implementation dependent and is beyond the scope of this speciﬁcation.

 be done based on a user

MAY

4.4.  Delivery of REQUIRETLS messages

Messages are usually retrieved by end users using protocols other than SMTP such as
[RFC3501] POP [RFC1939]
REQUIRETLS SMTP option

, or Web mail systems. Mail delivery agents supporting the
SHOULD

 observe the guidelines in

[RFC8314]

,

.

IMAP

5.  Non-delivery Message Handling

Non-delivery ("bounce") messages usually contain important metadata about the message to
which they refer, including the original message header. They therefore
same manner as the original message. All non-delivery messages resulting from messages with
the REQUIRETLS SMTP option, whether resulting from a REQUIRETLS error or some other issue,
MUST

 also specify the REQUIRETLS SMTP option unless redacted as described below.

 be protected in the

MUST

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

The path from the origination of an error bounce message back to the MAIL FROM address may
not share the same REQUIRETLS support as the forward path. Therefore, users requiring TLS are
advised to make sure that they are capable of receiving mail using REQUIRETLS as well.
Otherwise, such non-delivery messages will be lost.

[RFC3461]

. If both RET=FULL and REQUIRETLS are present, the RET=FULL

If a REQUIRETLS message is bounced, the server
described in
MUST
disregarded. The SMTP client for a REQUIRETLS bounce message uses an empty MAIL FROM
return-path, as required by
REQUIRETLS parameter
hop relay does not advertise REQUIRETLS.

. When the MAIL FROM return-path is empty, the
 cause a bounce message to be discarded even if the next-

 behave as if RET=HDRS was present, as

[RFC5321]
SHOULD NOT

MUST

 be

Senders of messages requiring TLS are advised to consider the possibility that bounce messages
will be lost as a result of REQUIRETLS return path failure and that some information could be
leaked if a bounce message is not able to be transmitted with REQUIRETLS.

6.  Reorigination Considerations

mediator [RFC5598]

 originates a new message as a result of an

In a number of situations, a
incoming message. These situations include but are not limited to mailing lists (including
administrative traﬃc such as message approval requests),
responders, and other ﬁlters to which incoming messages may be piped. These newly originated
messages may essentially be copies of the incoming message, such as with a forwarding service
or a mailing list expander. In other cases, such as with a vacation message or a delivery
notiﬁcation, they will be diﬀerent but might contain parts of the original message or other
information for which the original message sender wants to inﬂuence the requirement to use
TLS transmission.

Sieve [RFC5228]

, "vacation"

Mediators that reoriginate messages should apply REQUIRETLS requirements in incoming
messages (both requiring TLS transmission and requesting that TLS not be required) to the
reoriginated messages to the extent feasible. A limitation to this might be that for a message
requiring TLS, redistribution to multiple addresses while retaining the TLS requirement could
result in the message not being delivered to some of the intended recipients.

User-side mediators (such as use of Sieve rules on a user agent) typically do not have access to
the SMTP details and therefore may not be aware of the REQUIRETLS requirement on a delivered
message. Recipients that expect sensitive traﬃc should avoid the use of user-side mediators.
Alternatively, if operationally feasible (such as when forwarding to a speciﬁc, known address),
they should apply REQUIRETLS to all reoriginated messages that do not contain the "TLS-
Required: No" header ﬁeld.

7.  IANA Considerations

Per this document, IANA has added the following keyword to the "SMTP Service Extensions"
subregistry of the

"Mail Parameters" registry [MailParams]

:

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

EHLO Keyword:
Description:
Syntax and parameters:
Additional SMTP verbs:
MAIL and RCPT parameters:
Behavior:

Command length increment:

REQUIRETLS
Require TLS
(no parameters)
none
REQUIRETLS parameter on MAIL
Use of the REQUIRETLS parameter on the MAIL verb causes
that message to require the use of TLS and tagging with
REQUIRETLS for all onward relay.
11 characters

Per this document, IANA has added an entry to the "Enumerated Status Codes" subregistry of the
:
"Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) Enhanced Status Codes Registry" [SMTPStatusCodes]

Code:
Sample Text:
Associated basic status code:
Description:

Reference:
Submitter:
Change Controller:

X.7.30
REQUIRETLS support required
550
This indicates that the message was not able to be forwarded
because it was received with a REQUIRETLS requirement and
none of the SMTP servers to which the message should be
forwarded provide this support.
RFC 8689
J. Fenton
IESG

Per this document, IANA has added an entry to the "Permanent Message Header Field Names"
subregistry of the

"Message Headers" registry [MessageHeaders]

 as follows:

Header ﬁeld name:
Applicable protocol:
Status:
Author/change controller:
Speciﬁcation document:

TLS-Required
mail
standard
IETF
RFC 8689

8.  Security Considerations

The purpose of REQUIRETLS is to give the originator of a message control over the security of
email they send, either by conveying an expectation that it will be transmitted in an encrypted
form over the wire or explicitly indicating that transport encryption is not required if it cannot
be successfully negotiated.

The following considerations apply to the REQUIRETLS service extension but not the TLS-
Required header ﬁeld, since messages specifying the header ﬁeld are less concerned with
transport security.

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

8.1.  Passive Attacks

REQUIRETLS is generally eﬀective against passive attackers who are merely trying to eavesdrop
on an SMTP exchange between an SMTP client and server. This assumes, of course, the
cryptographic integrity of the TLS connection being used.

8.2.  Active Attacks

Active attacks against TLS-encrypted SMTP connections can take many forms. One such attack is
to interfere in the negotiation by changing the STARTTLS command to something illegal such as
XXXXXXXX. This causes TLS negotiation to fail and messages to be sent in the clear, where they
can be intercepted. REQUIRETLS detects the failure of STARTTLS and declines to send the
message rather than send it insecurely.

A second form of attack is a man-in-the-middle attack where the attacker terminates the TLS
connection rather than the intended SMTP server. This is possible when, as is commonly the
case, the SMTP client either does not verify the server's certiﬁcate or establishes the connection
even when the veriﬁcation fails. REQUIRETLS requires successful certiﬁcate validation before
sending the message.

Another active attack involves the spooﬁng of DNS MX records of the recipient domain. An
attacker with this capability could potentially cause the message to be redirected to a mail server
under the attacker's own control, which would presumably have a valid certiﬁcate. REQUIRETLS
requires that the recipient domain's MX record lookup be validated either using DNSSEC or via a
published MTA-STS policy that speciﬁes the acceptable SMTP server hostname(s) for the recipient
domain.

8.3.  Bad-Actor MTAs

A bad-actor MTA along the message transmission path could misrepresent its support of
REQUIRETLS and/or actively strip REQUIRETLS tags from messages it handles. However, since
intermediate MTAs are already trusted with the cleartext of messages they handle, and are not
part of the threat model for transport-layer security, they are also not part of the threat model for
REQUIRETLS.

It should be reemphasized that since SMTP TLS is a transport-layer security protocol, messages
sent using REQUIRETLS are not encrypted end-to-end and are visible to MTAs that are part of the
message delivery path. Messages containing sensitive information that MTAs should not have
access to
S/
.
MIME [RFC8551]

 be sent using end-to-end content encryption such as

OpenPGP [RFC4880]

MUST

 or

8.4.  Policy Conﬂicts

In some cases, the use of the TLS-Required header ﬁeld may conﬂict with a recipient domain
policy expressed through the
 or
DANE [RFC7672] MTA-STS [RFC8461]
protocols encourage the use of TLS transport by advertising the availability of TLS, the use of the
"TLS-Required: No" header ﬁeld represents an explicit decision on the part of the sender not to

 protocols. Although these

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

require the use of TLS, such as to overcome a conﬁguration error. The recipient domain has the
ultimate ability to require TLS by not accepting messages when STARTTLS has not been
negotiated; otherwise, "TLS-Required: No" is eﬀectively directing the client MTA to behave as if it
does not support DANE or MTA-STS.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[MailParams]

IANA "Mail Parameters" <http://www.iana.org/assignments/mail-parameters>

,

,

.

[MessageHeaders]

IANA "Permanent Message Header Field Names" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

assignments/message-headers>

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Hoﬀman, P. "SMTP Service Extension for Secure SMTP over Transport Layer
<https://www.rfc-
Security" RFC 3207 DOI 10.17487/RFC3207
editor.org/info/rfc3207>

, February 2002,

,

,

.

,

Moore, K. "Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) Service Extension for Delivery
Status Notiﬁcations (DSNs)" RFC 3461 DOI 10.17487/RFC3461
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3461>

, January 2003,

,

,

.

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "DNS Security
,
Introduction and Requirements" RFC 4033 DOI 10.17487/RFC4033
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4033>

,

.

,

, March 2005,

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "Resource Records for
,
the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4034 DOI 10.17487/RFC4034
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4034>

, March 2005,

,

.

,

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "Protocol
Modiﬁcations for the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4035 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4035

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4035>

, March 2005,

,
,

,

.

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

.

,

,

,
Hansen, T. and J. Klensin "A Registry for SMTP Enhanced Mail System Status
Codes" BCP 138 RFC 5248 DOI 10.17487/RFC5248
.
editor.org/info/rfc5248>

, June 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

Klensin, J. "Simple Mail Transfer Protocol" RFC 5321 DOI 10.17487/RFC5321
October 2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5321>

.

,

,

,

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC3207]

[RFC3461]

[RFC4033]

[RFC4034]

[RFC4035]

[RFC5234]

[RFC5248]

[RFC5321]

[RFC5322]

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

Resnick, P., Ed. "Internet Message Format" RFC 5322 DOI 10.17487/RFC5322
October 2008,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5322>

,

,

.

,

[RFC6125]

[RFC7525]

[RFC7672]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8314]

[RFC8461]

,

Saint-Andre, P. and J. Hodges "Representation and Veriﬁcation of Domain-Based
Application Service Identity within Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using
X.509 (PKIX) Certiﬁcates in the Context of Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
6125 DOI 10.17487/RFC6125
,
rfc6125>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

.

Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Dukhovni, V. and W. Hardaker "SMTP Security via Opportunistic DNS-Based
Authentication of Named Entities (DANE) Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
7672 DOI 10.17487/RFC7672
,
rfc7672>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2015,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Moore, K. and C. Newman "Cleartext Considered Obsolete: Use of Transport
Layer Security (TLS) for Email Submission and Access" RFC 8314 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8314

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8314>
.

, January 2018,

,

,

Margolis, D., Risher, M., Ramakrishnan, B., Brotman, A., and J. Jones "SMTP MTA
Strict Transport Security (MTA-STS)" RFC 8461 DOI 10.17487/RFC8461
September 2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8461>

,

,

.

,

[SMTPStatusCodes]

IANA "Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) Enhanced Status Codes
Registry" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/smtp-enhanced-status-codes>

,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC1939]

[RFC2033]

[RFC3501]

[RFC4880]

Myers, J. and M. Rose "Post Oﬃce Protocol - Version 3" STD 53 RFC 1939 DOI
10.17487/RFC1939

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1939>

, May 1996,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Myers, J. "Local Mail Transfer Protocol" RFC 2033 DOI 10.17487/RFC2033
October 1996,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2033>

.

,

,

,

,

Crispin, M. "INTERNET MESSAGE ACCESS PROTOCOL - VERSION 4rev1" RFC
,
3501 DOI 10.17487/RFC3501
rfc3501>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2003,

.

,

Callas, J., Donnerhacke, L., Finney, H., Shaw, D., and R. Thayer "OpenPGP
Message Format" RFC 4880 DOI 10.17487/RFC4880
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4880>

, November 2007,

,

,

.

,

<https://

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

[RFC5228]

[RFC5598]

[RFC6409]

[RFC8551]

Guenther, P., Ed. and T. Showalter, Ed. "Sieve: An Email Filtering Language" RFC
5228 DOI 10.17487/RFC5228
,
rfc5228>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2008,

.

,

Crocker, D. "Internet Mail Architecture" RFC 5598 DOI 10.17487/RFC5598
2009,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5598>

.

,

,

,

, July

Gellens, R. and J. Klensin "Message Submission for Mail" STD 72 RFC 6409 DOI
10.17487/RFC6409

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6409>

, November 2011,

,

.

,

,

,
Schaad, J., Ramsdell, B., and S. Turner "Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail
Extensions (S/MIME) Version 4.0 Message Speciﬁcation" RFC 8551 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8551

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8551>

, April 2019,

,

.

,

Appendix A.  Examples

This section is informative.

A.1.  REQUIRETLS SMTP Option

The TLS-Required SMTP option is used to express the intention of the sender to have the
associated message relayed using TLS. In the following example, lines beginning with "C:" are
transmitted from the SMTP client to the server, and lines beginning with "S:" are transmitted in
the opposite direction.

 S: 220 mail.example.net ESMTP
 C: EHLO mail.example.org
 S: 250-mail.example.net Hello example.org [192.0.2.1]
 S: 250-SIZE 52428800
 S: 250-8BITMIME
 S: 250-PIPELINING
 S: 250-STARTTLS
 S: 250 HELP
 C: STARTTLS
 S: TLS go ahead

(at this point TLS negotiation takes place. The remainder of this session occurs within TLS.)

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

 S: 220 mail.example.net ESMTP
 C: EHLO mail.example.org
 S: 250-mail.example.net Hello example.org [192.0.2.1]
 S: 250-SIZE 52428800
 S: 250-8BITMIME
 S: 250-PIPELINING
 S: 250-REQUIRETLS
 S: 250 HELP
 C: MAIL FROM:<roger@example.org> REQUIRETLS
 S: 250 OK
 C: RCPT TO:<editor@example.net>
 S: 250 Accepted
 C: DATA
 S: 354 Enter message, ending with "." on a line by itself

(message follows)

 C: .
 S: 250 OK
 C: QUIT

A.2.  TLS-Required Header Field

The TLS-Required header ﬁeld is used when the sender requests that the mail system not heed a
default policy of the recipient domain requiring TLS. It might be used, for example, to allow
problems with the recipient domain's TLS certiﬁcate to be reported:

 From: Roger Reporter <roger@example.org>
 To: Andy Admin <admin@example.com>
 Subject: Certificate problem?
 TLS-Required: No
 Date: Fri, 18 Jan 2019 10:26:55 -0800
 Message-ID: <5c421a6f79c0e_d153ff8286d45c468473@mail.example.org>

 Andy, there seems to be a problem with the TLS certificate
 on your mail server. Are you aware of this?

 Roger

Acknowledgements

The author would like to acknowledge many helpful suggestions on the ietf-smtp and uta mailing
lists, in particular those of Viktor Dukhovni, Tony Finch, Jeremy Harris, Arvel Hathcock, John
Klensin, Barry Leiba, John Levine, Chris Newman, Rolf Sonneveld, and Per Thorsheim.

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8689

SMTP Require TLS Option

November 2019

Author's Address

Jim Fenton
Altmode Networks
Los Altos California 94024
,
United States of America
Email:

 fenton@bluepopcorn.net

Fenton

Standards Track

Page 16

