Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8855
4582
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721

G. Camarillo
Ericsson

K. Drage

T. Kristensen
Jotron

J. Ott
Technical University Munich

C. Eckel
Cisco

RFC 8855
The Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP)

Abstract

Floor control is a means to manage joint or exclusive access to shared resources in a (multiparty)
conferencing environment. Thereby, ﬂoor control complements other functions -- such as
conference and media session setup, conference policy manipulation, and media control -- that
are realized by other protocols.

This document speciﬁes the Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP). BFCP is used between ﬂoor
participants and ﬂoor control servers, and between ﬂoor chairs (i.e., moderators) and ﬂoor
control servers.

This document obsoletes RFC 4582.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8855

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Scope

3.1.  Floor Creation

3.2.  Obtaining Information to Contact a Floor Control Server

3.3.  Obtaining Floor-Resource Associations

3.4.  Privileges of Floor Control

4.  Overview of Operation

4.1.  Floor Participant to Floor Control Server Interface

4.2.  Floor Chair to Floor Control Server Interface

5.  Packet Format

5.1.  COMMON-HEADER Format

5.2.  Attribute Format

5.2.1.  BENEFICIARY-ID

5.2.2.  FLOOR-ID

5.2.3.  FLOOR-REQUEST-ID

5.2.4.  PRIORITY

5.2.5.  REQUEST-STATUS

5.2.6.  ERROR-CODE

5.2.6.1.  Error Speciﬁc Details for Error Code 4

5.2.7.  ERROR-INFO

5.2.8.  PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO

5.2.9.  STATUS-INFO

5.2.10. SUPPORTED-ATTRIBUTES

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

5.2.11. SUPPORTED-PRIMITIVES

5.2.12. USER-DISPLAY-NAME

5.2.13. USER-URI

5.2.14. BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION

5.2.15. FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION

5.2.16. REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION

5.2.17. FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS

5.2.18. OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS

5.3.  Message Format

5.3.1.  FloorRequest

5.3.2.  FloorRelease

5.3.3.  FloorRequestQuery

5.3.4.  FloorRequestStatus

5.3.5.  UserQuery

5.3.6.  UserStatus

5.3.7.  FloorQuery

5.3.8.  FloorStatus

5.3.9.  ChairAction

5.3.10. ChairActionAck

5.3.11. Hello

5.3.12. HelloAck

5.3.13. Error

5.3.14. FloorRequestStatusAck

5.3.15. FloorStatusAck

5.3.16. Goodbye

5.3.17. GoodbyeAck

6.  Transport

6.1.  Reliable Transport

6.2.  Unreliable Transport

6.2.1.  Congestion Control

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

6.2.2.  ICMP Error Handling

6.2.3.  Fragmentation Handling

6.2.4.  NAT Traversal

7.  Lower-Layer Security

8.  Protocol Transactions

8.1.  Client Behavior

8.2.  Server Behavior

8.3.  Timers

8.3.1.  Request Retransmission Timer, T1

8.3.2.  Response Retransmission Timer, T2

8.3.3.  Timer Values

9.  Authentication and Authorization

9.1.  TLS/DTLS Based Mutual Authentication

10. Floor Participant Operations

10.1.  Requesting a Floor

10.1.1.  Sending a FloorRequest Message

10.1.2.  Receiving a Response

10.1.3.  Reception of a Subsequent FloorRequestStatus Message

10.2.  Cancelling a Floor Request and Releasing a Floor

10.2.1.  Sending a FloorRelease Message

10.2.2.  Receiving a Response

11. Chair Operations

11.1.  Sending a ChairAction Message

11.2.  Receiving a Response

12. General Client Operations

12.1.  Requesting Information about Floors

12.1.1.  Sending a FloorQuery Message

12.1.2.  Receiving a Response

12.1.3.  Reception of a Subsequent FloorStatus Message

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

12.2.  Requesting Information about Floor Requests

12.2.1.  Sending a FloorRequestQuery Message

12.2.2.  Receiving a Response

12.3.  Requesting Information about a User

12.3.1.  Sending a UserQuery Message

12.3.2.  Receiving a Response

12.4.  Obtaining the Capabilities of a Floor Control Server

12.4.1.  Sending a Hello Message

12.4.2.  Receiving Responses

13. Floor Control Server Operations

13.1.  Reception of a FloorRequest Message

13.1.1.  Generating the First FloorRequestStatus Message

13.1.2.  Generation of Subsequent FloorRequestStatus Messages

13.2.  Reception of a FloorRequestQuery Message

13.3.  Reception of a UserQuery Message

13.4.  Reception of a FloorRelease Message

13.5.  Reception of a FloorQuery Message

13.5.1.  Generation of the First FloorStatus Message

13.5.2.  Generation of Subsequent FloorStatus Messages

13.6.  Reception of a ChairAction Message

13.7.  Reception of a Hello Message

13.8.  Error Message Generation

14. Security Considerations

15. IANA Considerations

15.1.  Attributes Subregistry

15.2.  Primitives Subregistry

15.3.  Request Statuses Subregistry

15.4.  Error Codes Subregistry

16. Changes from RFC 4582

16.1.  Extensions for an Unreliable Transport

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

16.2.  Other Changes

17. References

17.1.  Normative References

17.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Example Call Flows for BFCP over an Unreliable Transport

Appendix B.  Motivation for Supporting an Unreliable Transport

B.1.  Motivation

B.1.1.  Alternatives Considered

B.1.1.1.  ICE TCP

B.1.1.2.  Teredo

B.1.1.3.  GUT

B.1.1.4.  UPnP IGD

B.1.1.5.  NAT PMP

B.1.1.6.  SCTP

B.1.1.7.  BFCP over UDP Transport

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Within a conference, some applications need to manage the access to a set of shared resources,
such as the right to send media to a particular media session. Floor control enables such
applications to provide users with coordinated (shared or exclusive) access to these resources.

The Requirements for Floor Control Protocol
ﬂoor control protocols. The Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP), which is speciﬁed in this
document, meets these requirements.

 list a set of requirements that need to be met by

[18]

In addition, BFCP has been designed so that it can be used in low-bandwidth environments. The
binary encoding used by BFCP achieves a small message size (when message signatures are not
used) that keeps the time it takes to transmit delay-sensitive BFCP messages to a minimum.
Delay-sensitive BFCP messages include FloorRequest, FloorRelease, FloorRequestStatus, and
ChairAction. It is expected that future extensions to these messages will not increase the size of
these messages in a signiﬁcant way.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

The remainder of this document is organized as follows: Section 2 deﬁnes the terminology used
throughout this document, Section 3 discusses the scope of BFCP (i.e., which tasks fall within the
scope of BFCP and which ones are performed using diﬀerent mechanisms), Section 4 provides a
non-normative overview of BFCP operation. The subsequent sections provide the normative
speciﬁcation of BFCP. Section 16 summarizes changes from

RFC 4582 [3]
.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
 when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

[1] [10]

Media Participant:

An entity that has access to the media resources of a conference (e.g., it can

receive a media stream). In ﬂoor-controlled conferences, a given media participant is
typically co-located with a ﬂoor participant, but it does not need to be. Third-party ﬂoor
requests consist of having a ﬂoor participant request a ﬂoor for a media participant when
they are not co-located. The protocol between a ﬂoor participant and a media participant (that
are not co-located) is outside the scope of this document.

Client:

A ﬂoor participant or a ﬂoor chair that communicates with a ﬂoor control server using

BFCP.

Floor:

A temporary permission to access or manipulate a speciﬁc shared resource or set of

resources.

Floor Chair:

A logical entity that manages one ﬂoor (grants, denies, or revokes a ﬂoor). An
entity that assumes the logical role of a ﬂoor chair for a given transaction may assume a
diﬀerent role (e.g., ﬂoor participant) for a diﬀerent transaction. The roles of ﬂoor chair and
ﬂoor participant are deﬁned on a transaction-by-transaction basis. BFCP transactions are
deﬁned in Section 8.

Floor Control:

A mechanism that enables applications or users to gain safe and mutually

exclusive or non-exclusive input access to the shared object or resource.

Floor Control Server:

A logical entity that maintains the state of the ﬂoor(s), including which
ﬂoors exists, who the ﬂoor chairs are, who holds a ﬂoor, etc. Requests to manipulate a ﬂoor
are directed at the ﬂoor control server. The ﬂoor control server of a conference may perform
other logical roles (e.g., ﬂoor participant) in another conference.

Floor Participant:

A logical entity that requests ﬂoors, and possibly information about them,

from a ﬂoor control server. An entity that assumes the logical role of a ﬂoor participant for a
given transaction may assume a diﬀerent role (e.g., a ﬂoor chair) for a diﬀerent transaction.
The roles of ﬂoor participant and ﬂoor chair are deﬁned on a transaction-by-transaction basis.
BFCP transactions are deﬁned in Section 8. In ﬂoor-controlled conferences, a given ﬂoor

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

participant is typically co-located with a media participant, but it does not need to be. Third-
party ﬂoor requests consist of having a ﬂoor participant request a ﬂoor for a media
participant when they are not co-located.

Participant:

An entity that acts as a ﬂoor participant, as a media participant, or as both.

BFCP Connection:
messages.

A transport association between BFCP entities, used to exchange BFCP

Transaction Failure Window:

When communicating over an unreliable transport, this is some
period of time less than or equal to T1*24 (see Section 8.3). For reliable transports, this period
of time is unbounded.

3.  Scope

As stated earlier, BFCP is a protocol to coordinate access to shared resources in a conference
following the requirements deﬁned in
the Centralized Conferencing (XCON) Framework
this document only speciﬁes a means to arbitrate access to ﬂoors. The rules and constraints for
ﬂoor arbitration and the results of ﬂoor assignments are outside the scope of this document and
are deﬁned by other protocols

. Floor control complements other functions deﬁned in
. The ﬂoor control protocol BFCP deﬁned in

.
[19]

[18]

[19]

Figure 1 shows the tasks that BFCP can perform.

                           +---------+
                           |  Floor  |
                           |  Chair  |
                           |         |
                           +---------+
                              ^   |
                              |   |
                 Notification |   | Decision
                              |   |
                              |   |
                   Floor      |   v
+-------------+   Request  +---------+              +-------------+
|    Floor    |----------->|  Floor  | Notification |    Floor    |
| Participant |            | Control |------------->| Participant |
|             |<-----------|  Server |              |             |
+-------------+ Granted or +---------+              +-------------+
                  Denied

Figure 1: Functionality provided by BFCP

BFCP provides a means:

•

for ﬂoor participants to send ﬂoor requests to ﬂoor control servers.

•

for ﬂoor control servers to grant or deny requests to access a given resource from ﬂoor
participants.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

•

for ﬂoor chairs to send ﬂoor control servers decisions regarding ﬂoor requests.

•

for ﬂoor control servers to keep ﬂoor participants and ﬂoor chairs informed about the status
of a given ﬂoor or a given ﬂoor request.

Even though tasks that do not belong to the previous list are outside the scope of BFCP, some of
these out-of-scope tasks relate to ﬂoor control and are essential for creating ﬂoors and
establishing BFCP connections between diﬀerent entities. In the following subsections, we
discuss some of these tasks and mechanisms to perform them.

3.1.  Floor Creation

The association of a given ﬂoor with a resource or a set of resources (e.g., media streams) is out
of the scope of BFCP as described in
scope of BFCP; these aspects are handled using the conference control protocol for manipulating
the conference object. Consequently, the ﬂoor control server needs to stay up to date on changes
to the conference object (e.g., when a new ﬂoor is created).

. Floor creation and termination are also outside the

[19]

Conference control clients using Centralized Conferencing Manipulation Protocol (CCMP)
can specify such ﬂoor-related settings in the <ﬂoor-information> element
 of the to-be
created conference object provided in the body of a CCMP confRequest/create message issued to
the conference control server.

[22]

[23]

3.2.  Obtaining Information to Contact a Floor Control Server

A client needs a set of data in order to establish a BFCP connection to a ﬂoor control server.
These data include the transport address of the server, the conference identiﬁer, and a user
identiﬁer.

[17]

 exchange, which is described in

Clients can obtain this information in diﬀerent ways. One is to use a Session Description Protocol
(SDP) oﬀer/answer
BFCP ﬂoor control server is outside the context of an oﬀer/answer exchange when using a
reliable transport is described in
[19]
exchange is the only speciﬁed mechanism.

 (and other related documents). For unreliable transports, the use of an SDP oﬀer/answer

. Other mechanisms are described in the XCON Framework

. How to establish a connection to a

[12]

[4]

3.3.  Obtaining Floor-Resource Associations

Floors are associated with resources. For example, a ﬂoor that controls who talks at a given time
has a particular audio session as its associated resource. Associations between ﬂoors and
resources are part of the conference object.

Floor participants and ﬂoor chairs need to know which resources are associated with which
ﬂoors. They can obtain this information by using diﬀerent mechanisms, such as an SDP oﬀer/
answer
described in

 exchange. How to use an SDP oﬀer/answer exchange to obtain these associations is

[17]

[12]

.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Note that ﬂoor participants perform SDP oﬀer/answer exchanges with the
conference focus of the conference. So, the conference focus needs to obtain
information about associations between ﬂoors and resources in order to be able to
provide this information to a ﬂoor participant in an SDP oﬀer/answer exchange.

Other mechanisms for obtaining this information, including discussion of how the information is
made available to a (SIP) focus, are described in the XCON Framework
documents). According to the conferencing system policies, conference control clients using
CCMP
messages providing the speciﬁc updates to the <ﬂoor-information> element of the target
conference object. More information about CCMP and BFCP interaction can be found in

 can modify the ﬂoor settings of a conference by issuing CCMP confRequest/update

 (and other related

.
[24]

[19]

[23]

3.4.  Privileges of Floor Control

A participant whose ﬂoor request is granted has the right to use the resource or resources
associated with the ﬂoor that was requested. For example, the participant may have the right to
send media over a particular audio stream.

Nevertheless, holding a ﬂoor does not imply that others will not be able to use its associated
resources at the same time, even if they do not have the right to do so. Determination of which
media participants can actually use the resources in the conference is discussed in the XCON
Framework

[19]

.

4.  Overview of Operation

This section provides a non-normative description of BFCP operations. Section 4.1 describes the
interface between ﬂoor participants and ﬂoor control servers, and Section 4.2 describes the
interface between ﬂoor chairs and ﬂoor control servers.

BFCP messages, which use a TLV (Type-Length-Value) binary encoding, consist of a COMMON-
HEADER followed by a set of attributes. The COMMON-HEADER contains, among other
information, a 32-bit conference identiﬁer. Floor participants, media participants, and ﬂoor
chairs are identiﬁed by 16-bit user identiﬁers.

BFCP supports nested attributes (i.e., attributes that contain attributes). These are referred to as
grouped attributes.

There are two types of transactions in BFCP: client-initiated transactions and server-initiated
transactions. Section 8 describes both types of transactions in detail.

4.1.  Floor Participant to Floor Control Server Interface

Floor participants request a ﬂoor by sending a FloorRequest message to the ﬂoor control server.
BFCP supports third-party ﬂoor requests. That is, the ﬂoor participant sending the ﬂoor request
need not be co-located with the media participant that will get the ﬂoor once the ﬂoor request is

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

granted. FloorRequest messages carry the identity of the requester in the User ID ﬁeld of the
COMMON-HEADER, and the identity of the beneﬁciary of the ﬂoor (in third-party ﬂoor requests)
in a BENEFICIARY-ID attribute.

Third-party ﬂoor requests can be sent, for example, by ﬂoor participants that have a
BFCP connection to the ﬂoor control server but that are not media participants (i.e.,
they do not handle any media).

FloorRequest messages identify the ﬂoor or ﬂoors being requested by carrying their 16-bit ﬂoor
identiﬁers in FLOOR-ID attributes. If a FloorRequest message carries more than one ﬂoor
identiﬁer, the ﬂoor control server treats all the ﬂoor requests as an atomic package. That is, the
ﬂoor control server either grants or denies all the ﬂoors in the FloorRequest message.

Floor control servers respond to FloorRequest messages with FloorRequestStatus messages,
which provide information about the status of the ﬂoor request. The ﬁrst FloorRequestStatus
message is the response to the FloorRequest message from the client, and therefore has the same
Transaction ID as the FloorRequest.

Additionally, the ﬁrst FloorRequestStatus message carries the Floor Request ID in a FLOOR-
REQUEST-INFORMATION attribute. Subsequent FloorRequestStatus messages related to the same
ﬂoor request will carry the same Floor Request ID. This way, the ﬂoor participant can associate
them with the appropriate ﬂoor request.

Messages from the ﬂoor participant related to a particular ﬂoor request also use the same Floor
Request ID as the ﬁrst FloorRequestStatus message from the ﬂoor control server.

Figure 2 and Figure 3 show examples of call ﬂows where BFCP is used over a reliable transport.
Appendix A shows the same call ﬂow examples using an unreliable transport.

Figure 2 shows how a ﬂoor participant requests a ﬂoor, obtains it, and, at a later time, releases it.
This ﬁgure illustrates the use, among other things, of the Transaction ID and the FLOOR-
REQUEST-ID attribute.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

   Floor Participant                                 Floor Control
                                                        Server
           |(1) FloorRequest                               |
           |Transaction ID: 123                            |
           |User ID: 234                                   |
           |FLOOR-ID: 543                                  |
           |---------------------------------------------->|
           |                                               |
           |(2) FloorRequestStatus                         |
           |Transaction ID: 123                            |
           |User ID: 234                                   |
           |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
           |      Floor Request ID: 789                    |
           |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
           |              Request Status: Pending          |
           |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
           |            Floor ID: 543                      |
           |<----------------------------------------------|
           |                                               |
           |(3) FloorRequestStatus                         |
           |Transaction ID: 0                              |
           |User ID: 234                                   |
           |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
           |      Floor Request ID: 789                    |
           |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
           |              Request Status: Accepted         |
           |              Queue Position: 1st              |
           |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
           |            Floor ID: 543                      |
           |<----------------------------------------------|
           |                                               |
           |(4) FloorRequestStatus                         |
           |Transaction ID: 0                              |
           |User ID: 234                                   |
           |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
           |      Floor Request ID: 789                    |
           |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
           |              Request Status: Granted          |
           |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
           |            Floor ID: 543                      |
           |<----------------------------------------------|
           |                                               |
           |(5) FloorRelease                               |
           |Transaction ID: 154                            |
           |User ID: 234                                   |
           |FLOOR-REQUEST-ID: 789                          |
           |---------------------------------------------->|
           |                                               |
           |(6) FloorRequestStatus                         |
           |Transaction ID: 154                            |
           |User ID: 234                                   |
           |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
           |      Floor Request ID: 789                    |
           |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
           |              Request Status: Released         |
           |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

           |            Floor ID: 543                      |
           |<----------------------------------------------|

Figure 2: Requesting and releasing a ﬂoor

Figure 3 shows how a ﬂoor participant requests to be informed on the status of a ﬂoor. The ﬁrst
FloorStatus message from the ﬂoor control server is the response to the FloorQuery message and,
as such, has the same Transaction ID as the FloorQuery message.

Subsequent FloorStatus messages consist of server-initiated transactions, and therefore their
Transaction ID is 0 given this example uses a reliable transport. FloorStatus message (2) indicates
that there are currently two ﬂoor requests for the ﬂoor whose Floor ID is 543. FloorStatus
message (3) indicates that the ﬂoor requests with Floor Request ID 764 has been granted, and the
ﬂoor request with Floor Request ID 635 is the ﬁrst in the queue. FloorStatus message (4) indicates
that the ﬂoor request with Floor Request ID 635 has been granted.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

   Floor Participant                                 Floor Control
                                                        Server
           |(1) FloorQuery                                 |
           |Transaction ID: 257                            |
           |User ID: 234                                   |
           |FLOOR-ID: 543                                  |
           |---------------------------------------------->|
           |                                               |
           |(2) FloorStatus                                |
           |Transaction ID: 257                            |
           |User ID: 234                                   |
           |FLOOR-ID:543                                   |
           |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
           |      Floor Request ID: 764                    |
           |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
           |              Request Status: Accepted         |
           |              Queue Position: 1st              |
           |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
           |            Floor ID: 543                      |
           |      BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION                  |
           |                  Beneficiary ID: 124          |
           |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
           |      Floor Request ID: 635                    |
           |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
           |              Request Status: Accepted         |
           |              Queue Position: 2nd              |
           |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
           |            Floor ID: 543                      |
           |      BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION                  |
           |                  Beneficiary ID: 154          |
           |<----------------------------------------------|
           |                                               |
           |(3) FloorStatus                                |
           |Transaction ID: 0                              |
           |User ID: 234                                   |
           |FLOOR-ID:543                                   |
           |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
           |      Floor Request ID: 764                    |
           |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
           |              Request Status: Granted          |
           |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
           |            Floor ID: 543                      |
           |      BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION                  |
           |                  Beneficiary ID: 124          |
           |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
           |      Floor Request ID: 635                    |
           |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
           |              Request Status: Accepted         |
           |              Queue Position: 1st              |
           |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
           |            Floor ID: 543                      |
           |      BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION                  |
           |                  Beneficiary ID: 154          |
           |<----------------------------------------------|
           |                                               |
           |(4) FloorStatus                                |
           |Transaction ID: 0                              |

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

           |User ID: 234                                   |
           |FLOOR-ID:543                                   |
           |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
           |      Floor Request ID: 635                    |
           |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
           |              Request Status: Granted          |
           |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
           |            Floor ID: 543                      |
           |      BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION                  |
           |                  Beneficiary ID: 154          |
           |<----------------------------------------------|

Figure 3: Obtaining status information about a ﬂoor

FloorStatus messages contain information about the ﬂoor requests they carry. For example,
FloorStatus message (4) indicates that the ﬂoor request with Floor Request ID 635 has as the
beneﬁciary (i.e., the participant that holds the ﬂoor when a particular ﬂoor request is granted)
the participant whose User ID is 154. The ﬂoor request applies only to the ﬂoor whose Floor ID is
543. That is, this is not a multi-ﬂoor ﬂoor request.

A multi-ﬂoor ﬂoor request applies to more than one ﬂoor (e.g., a participant wants
to be able to speak and write on the whiteboard at the same time). The ﬂoor control
server treats a multi-ﬂoor ﬂoor request as an atomic package. That is, the ﬂoor
control server either grants the request for all ﬂoors or denies the request for all
ﬂoors.

4.2.  Floor Chair to Floor Control Server Interface

Figure 4 shows a ﬂoor chair instructing a ﬂoor control server to grant a ﬂoor.

Note, however, that although the ﬂoor control server needs to take into
consideration the instructions received in ChairAction messages (e.g., granting a
ﬂoor), it does not necessarily need to perform them exactly as requested by the ﬂoor
chair. The operation that the ﬂoor control server performs depends on the
ChairAction message and on the internal state of the ﬂoor control server.

For example, a ﬂoor chair may send a ChairAction message granting a ﬂoor that was requested
as part of an atomic ﬂoor request operation that involved several ﬂoors. Even if the chair
responsible for one of the ﬂoors instructs the ﬂoor control server to grant the ﬂoor, the ﬂoor
control server will not grant it until the chairs responsible for the other ﬂoors agree to grant
them as well. In another example, a ﬂoor chair may instruct the ﬂoor control server to grant a
ﬂoor to a participant. The ﬂoor control server needs to revoke the ﬂoor from its current holder
before granting it to the new participant.

So, the ﬂoor control server is ultimately responsible for keeping a coherent ﬂoor state using
instructions from ﬂoor chairs as input to this state.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

   Floor Chair                                    Floor Control
                                                     Server
        |(1) ChairAction                                |
        |Transaction ID: 769                            |
        |User ID: 357                                   |
        |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
        |      Floor Request ID: 635                    |
        |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
        |            Floor ID: 543                      |
        |            Request Status: Granted            |
        |---------------------------------------------->|
        |                                               |
        |(2) ChairActionAck                             |
        |Transaction ID: 769                            |
        |User ID: 357                                   |
        |<----------------------------------------------|

Figure 4: Chair instructing the ﬂoor control server

5.  Packet Format

BFCP packets consist of a 12-octet COMMON-HEADER followed by attributes. All the protocol
values

 be sent in network byte order.

MUST

5.1.  COMMON-HEADER Format

The following is the format of the COMMON-HEADER.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | Ver |R|F| Res |  Primitive    |        Payload Length         |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                         Conference ID                         |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |         Transaction ID        |            User ID            |
+> +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  | Fragment Offset (if F is set) | Fragment Length (if F is set) |
+> +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|
+---- These fragment fields are never present
      when using reliable transports

Figure 5: COMMON-HEADER format

Ver:

This 3-bit ﬁeld deﬁnes the version of BFCP to which this message adheres. This

speciﬁcation deﬁnes two versions: 1 and 2. The version ﬁeld
BFCP over a reliable transport. The version ﬁeld
unreliable transport. If a ﬂoor control server receives a message with an unsupported version

 be set to 2 when using BFCP over an

 be set to 1 when using

MUST

MUST

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

R:

F:

ﬁeld value or a message with a version number that is not permitted with the transport over
which it was received, the server
 indicate it does not support the protocol version by
sending an Error message with parameter value 12 (Unsupported Version). Note that BFCP
entities supporting only the

 subset will not support this parameter value.

MUST

[3]

The Transaction Responder (R) ﬂag bit has relevance only for use of BFCP over an unreliable
transport. When cleared, it indicates that this message is a request initiating a new
transaction, and the Transaction ID that follows has been generated for this transaction.
When set, it indicates that this message is a response to a previous request, and the
Transaction ID that follows is the one associated with that request. When BFCP is used over a
reliable transport, the ﬂag has no signiﬁcance and
be ignored by the receiver.

 be cleared by the sender and

MUST

MUST

The Fragmentation (F) ﬂag bit has relevance only for use of BFCP over an unreliable
transport. When cleared, the message is not fragmented. When set, it indicates that the
message is a fragment of a large, fragmented BFCP message. (The optional ﬁelds Fragment
Oﬀset and Fragment Length described below are present only if the F ﬂag is set). When BFCP
is used over a reliable transport, the ﬂag has no signiﬁcance and
sender, and the ﬂag
also ignore the Fragment Oﬀset and Fragment Length ﬁelds when processing the COMMON-
HEADER.

 be ignored by the receiver. In the latter case, the receiver should

 be cleared by the

MUST

MUST

Res:

The 3 bits in the reserved ﬁeld

be ignored by the receiver.

MUST

 be set to zero by the sender of the message and

MUST

Primitive:

This 8-bit ﬁeld identiﬁes the main purpose of the message. The following primitive

values are deﬁned:

Value

Primitive

Direction

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

FloorRequest

FloorRelease

P -> S

P -> S

FloorRequestQuery

P -> S ; Ch -> S

FloorRequestStatus

P <- S ; Ch <- S

UserQuery

P -> S ; Ch -> S

UserStatus

P <- S ; Ch <- S

FloorQuery

P -> S ; Ch -> S

S: Floor Control Server
P: Floor Participant
Ch: Floor Chair

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Value

Primitive

Direction

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

FloorStatus

P <- S ; Ch <- S

ChairAction

ChairActionAck

Ch -> S

Ch <- S

Hello

HelloAck

Error

P -> S ; Ch -> S

P <- S ; Ch <- S

P <- S ; Ch <- S

FloorRequestStatusAck

P -> S ; Ch -> S

FloorStatusAck

P -> S ; Ch -> S

Goodbye

P -> S ; Ch -> S ; P <- S ; Ch <- S

GoodbyeAck

P -> S ; Ch -> S ; P <- S ; Ch <- S

S: Floor Control Server
P: Floor Participant
Ch: Floor Chair

Table 1: BFCP primitives

Payload Length:

This 16-bit ﬁeld contains the length of the message in 4-octet units, excluding

the COMMON-HEADER. If a ﬂoor control server receives a message with an incorrect Payload
Length ﬁeld value, the receiving server
 send an Error message with parameter value 13
(Incorrect Message Length) to indicate this and then discard the message. Other entities that
receive a message with an incorrect length
MUST

 discard the message.

MUST

Note: BFCP is designed to achieve small message size, as explained in Section 1, and
BFCP entities are
limited by the 16-bit Payload Length ﬁeld. To convey information not strictly related
to ﬂoor control, other protocols should be used, such as the XCON Framework (cf.
Section 3).

 to keep the BFCP message size smaller than the size

REQUIRED

Conference ID:

This 32-bit unsigned integer ﬁeld identiﬁes the conference to which the message
RECOMMENDED

 that the conference identiﬁer be randomly chosen. (Note that

belongs. It is
the use of predictable conference identiﬁers in conjunction with a nonsecure transport
protocol makes BFCP susceptible to oﬀ-path data injection attacks, where an attacker can
forge a request or response message.)

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Transaction ID:

This ﬁeld contains a 16-bit value that allows users to match a given message

with its response (see Section 8).

User ID:

This ﬁeld contains a 16-bit unsigned integer that uniquely identiﬁes a participant

within a conference.

The identity used by a participant in BFCP, which is carried in the User ID ﬁeld, is
generally mapped to the identity used by the same participant in the session
establishment protocol (e.g., in SIP). The way this mapping is performed is outside
the scope of this speciﬁcation.

Fragment Oﬀset:

This optional ﬁeld is present only if the F ﬂag is set and contains a 16-bit value

that speciﬁes the number of 4-octet units contained in previous fragments, excluding the
COMMON-HEADER.

Fragment Length:

This optional ﬁeld is present only if the F ﬂag is set and contains a 16-bit
value that speciﬁes the number of 4-octet units contained in this fragment, excluding the
COMMON-HEADER. BFCP entities that receive message fragments that, individually or
collectively, exceed the Payload Length value
receiver is a ﬂoor control server, it
(Incorrect Message Length)

 discard the message. Additionally, if the

 also send an Error message with parameter value 13

MUST

MUST

5.2.  Attribute Format

BFCP attributes are encoded in TLV (Type-Length-Value) format. Attributes are 32-bit aligned.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |    Type     |M|    Length     |                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
  |                                                               |
  /                       Attribute Contents                      /
  /                                                               /
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: Attribute format

Type:

This 7-bit ﬁeld contains the type of the attribute. Each attribute, identiﬁed by its type, has

a particular format. The attribute formats deﬁned are:

Unsigned16:

The contents of the attribute consist of a 16-bit unsigned integer.

OctetString16:

The contents of the attribute consist of 16 bits of arbitrary data.

OctetString:

The contents of the attribute consist of arbitrary data of variable length.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Grouped:

The contents of the attribute consist of a sequence of attributes.

Note that extension attributes deﬁned in the future may deﬁne new attribute
formats.

The following attribute types are deﬁned:

Type Attribute

BENEFICIARY-ID

FLOOR-ID

Format

Unsigned16

Unsigned16

FLOOR-REQUEST-ID

Unsigned16

PRIORITY

OctetString16

REQUEST-STATUS

OctetString16

ERROR-CODE

ERROR-INFO

OctetString

OctetString

PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO

OctetString

STATUS-INFO

OctetString

SUPPORTED-ATTRIBUTES

OctetString

SUPPORTED-PRIMITIVES

OctetString

USER-DISPLAY-NAME

OctetString

USER-URI

OctetString

BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION

Grouped

FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION Grouped

REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION

Grouped

FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS

Grouped

OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS

Grouped

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

Table 2: BFCP attributes

M:

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

MUST

. If a ﬂoor control server receives an unrecognized attribute with the 'M' bit set, the
 send an Error message with parameter value 4 (Unknown Mandatory Attribute)

The 'M' bit, known as the Mandatory bit, indicates whether support of the attribute is
REQUIRED
server
to indicate this. The 'M' bit is signiﬁcant for extension attributes deﬁned in other documents
 be understood by the receiver so that the
only. All attributes speciﬁed in this document
setting of the 'M' bit is irrelevant for these. Unrecognized attributes, such as those that might
be speciﬁed in future extensions, that do not have the 'M' bit set are ignored, but the message
is processed.

MUST

Length:

This 8-bit ﬁeld contains the length of the attribute in octets, excluding any padding
deﬁned for speciﬁc attributes. The length of attributes that are not grouped includes the Type,
'M' bit, and Length ﬁelds. The Length in grouped attributes is the length of the grouped
attribute itself (including Type, 'M' bit, and Length ﬁelds) plus the total length (including
padding) of all the included attributes.

Attribute Contents:

The contents of the diﬀerent attributes are deﬁned in the following sections.

5.2.1.  BENEFICIARY-ID

The following is the format of the BENEFICIARY-ID attribute.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 0 0 0 1|M|0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0|        Beneficiary ID         |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: BENEFICIARY-ID format

Beneﬁciary ID:
conference.

This ﬁeld contains a 16-bit value that uniquely identiﬁes a user within a

Note that although the formats of the Beneﬁciary ID and of the User ID ﬁeld in the
COMMON-HEADER are similar, their semantics are diﬀerent. The Beneﬁciary ID is
used in third-party ﬂoor requests and to request information about a particular
participant.

5.2.2.  FLOOR-ID

The following is the format of the FLOOR-ID attribute.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 0 0 1 0|M|0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0|           Floor ID            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 8: FLOOR-ID format

Floor ID: This ﬁeld contains a 16-bit value that uniquely identiﬁes a ﬂoor within a conference.

5.2.3.  FLOOR-REQUEST-ID

The following is the format of the FLOOR-REQUEST-ID attribute.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 0 0 1 1|M|0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0|       Floor Request ID        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 9: FLOOR-REQUEST-ID format

Floor Request ID:

This ﬁeld contains a 16-bit value that identiﬁes a ﬂoor request at the ﬂoor

control server.

5.2.4.  PRIORITY

The following is the format of the PRIORITY attribute.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 0 1 0 0|M|0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0|Prio |         Reserved        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 10: PRIORITY format

Prio:

This ﬁeld contains a 3-bit Priority value, as shown in Table 3. Senders

values higher than 4 in this ﬁeld. Receivers
MUST
received were 4 (Highest). The default Priority value when the PRIORITY attribute is missing
is 2 (Normal).

 use
 treat values higher than 4 as if the value

SHOULD NOT

Value

Priority

0

Lowest

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Value

Priority

1

2

3

4

Low

Normal

High

Highest

Table 3: Priority values

Reserved: The 13 bits in the reserved ﬁeld
 be ignored by the receiver.

MUST

MUST

 be set to zero by the sender of the message and

5.2.5.  REQUEST-STATUS

The following is the format of the REQUEST-STATUS attribute.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 0 1 0 1|M|0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0|Request Status |Queue Position |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 11: REQUEST-STATUS format

Request Status:

This 8-bit ﬁeld contains the status of the request, as described in the following

table.

Value

Status

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

Pending

Accepted

Granted

Denied

Cancelled

Released

Revoked

Table 4: Request Status values

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Queue Position: This 8-bit ﬁeld contains, when applicable, the position of the ﬂoor request in

the ﬂoor request queue at the server. If the Request Status value is diﬀerent from Accepted, if
the ﬂoor control server does not implement a ﬂoor request queue, or if the ﬂoor control
server does not want to provide the client with this information, all the bits of this ﬁeld
SHOULD

 be set to zero.

A ﬂoor request is in Pending state if the ﬂoor control server needs to contact a ﬂoor chair in
order to accept the ﬂoor request, but has not done it yet. Once the ﬂoor control chair accepts the
ﬂoor request, the ﬂoor request is moved to the Accepted state.

5.2.6.  ERROR-CODE

The following is the format of the ERROR-CODE attribute.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 0 1 1 0|M|    Length     |  Error Code   |               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+               |
  |                                                               |
  |                     Error Specific Details                    |
  /                                                               /
  /                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                               |            Padding            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 12: ERROR-CODE format

Error Code:

This 8-bit ﬁeld contains an error code from the following table. If an error code is
MUST

not recognized by the receiver, then the receiver
therefore that the original message that triggered the Error message to be sent is processed,
but the nature of the error is unclear.

 assume that an error exists, and

Value Meaning

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

Conference Does Not Exist

User Does Not Exist

Unknown Primitive

Unknown Mandatory Attribute

Unauthorized Operation

Invalid Floor ID

Floor Request ID Does Not Exist

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Value Meaning

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

You have Already Reached the Maximum Number of Ongoing Floor Requests for
This Floor

Use TLS

Unable to Parse Message

Use DTLS

Unsupported Version

Incorrect Message Length

Generic Error

Table 5: Error Code meaning

Note: The Generic Error error code is intended to be used when an error occurs and
the other speciﬁc error codes do not apply.

Error Speciﬁc Details:

Present only for certain error codes. In this document, this ﬁeld is

present only for Error Code 4 (Unknown Mandatory Attribute). See Section 5.2.6.1 for its
deﬁnition.

Padding:

One, two, or three octets of padding added so that the contents of the ERROR-CODE

attribute is 32-bit aligned. If the attribute is already 32-bit aligned, no padding is needed.

The Padding bits

MUST

 be set to zero by the sender and

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

5.2.6.1.  Error Speciﬁc Details for Error Code 4

The following is the format of the Error Speciﬁc Details ﬁeld for Error Code 4.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  | Unknown Type|R| Unknown Type|R| Unknown Type|R| Unknown Type|R|
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
  /                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                               | Unknown Type|R| Unknown Type|R|
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  | Unknown Type|R| Unknown Type|R|
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 13: Unknown attributes format

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Unknown Type:

These 7-bit ﬁelds contain the Types of the attributes (which were present in the

message that triggered the Error message) that were unknown to the receiver.

Reserved (R):

This bit is reserved. It

be ignored by the receiver.

5.2.7.  ERROR-INFO

MUST

 be set to zero by the sender of the message and

MUST

The following is the format of the ERROR-INFO attribute.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 0 1 1 1|M|    Length     |                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
  |                                                               |
  /                             Text                              /
  /                                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                               |    Padding    |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 14: ERROR-INFO format

Text:

This ﬁeld contains UTF-8 encoded text

[9]
.

In some situations, the contents of the Text ﬁeld may be generated by an automaton. If this
automaton has information about the preferred language of the receiver of a particular
ERROR-INFO attribute, it

 use this language to generate the Text ﬁeld.

MAY

Padding:

One, two, or three octets of padding added so that the contents of the ERROR-INFO
 be

attribute is 32-bit aligned. The Padding bits
MUST
ignored by the receiver. If the attribute is already 32-bit aligned, no padding is needed.

 be set to zero by the sender and

MUST

5.2.8.  PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO

The following is the format of the PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO attribute.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 1 0 0 0|M|    Length     |                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
  |                                                               |
  /                             Text                              /
  /                                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                               |    Padding    |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 15: PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO format

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Text:

This ﬁeld contains UTF-8 encoded text

[9]

.

Padding:

One, two, or three octets of padding added so that the contents of the PARTICIPANT-

PROVIDED-INFO attribute is 32-bit aligned. The Padding bits
and
needed.

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver. If the attribute is already 32-bit aligned, no padding is

MUST

 be set to zero by the sender

5.2.9.  STATUS-INFO

The following is the format of the STATUS-INFO attribute.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 1 0 0 1|M|    Length     |                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
  |                                                               |
  /                             Text                              /
  /                                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                               |    Padding    |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 16: STATUS-INFO format

Text:

This ﬁeld contains UTF-8 encoded text

.
[9]

In some situations, the contents of the Text ﬁeld may be generated by an automaton. If this
automaton has information about the preferred language of the receiver of a particular
STATUS-INFO attribute, it

 use this language to generate the Text ﬁeld.

MAY

Padding:

One, two, or three octets of padding added so that the contents of the STATUS-INFO
 be

attribute is 32-bit aligned. The Padding bits
MUST
ignored by the receiver. If the attribute is already 32-bit aligned, no padding is needed.

 be set to zero by the sender and

MUST

5.2.10.  SUPPORTED-ATTRIBUTES

The following is the format of the SUPPORTED-ATTRIBUTES attribute.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 1 0 1 0|M|    Length     | Supp. Attr. |R| Supp. Attr. |R|
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  | Supp. Attr. |R| Supp. Attr. |R| Supp. Attr. |R| Supp. Attr. |R|
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
  /                                                               /
  /                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                               |            Padding            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 17: SUPPORTED-ATTRIBUTES format

Supp. Attr.:

These ﬁelds contain the BFCP attribute types that are supported by the ﬂoor control

server. See Table 2 for the list of BFCP attributes.

Reserved (R):
reception.

This bit

MUST

 be set to zero upon transmission and

MUST

 be ignored upon

Padding:

One, two, or three octets of padding added so that the contents of the SUPPORTED-

ATTRIBUTES attribute is 32-bit aligned. If the attribute is already 32-bit aligned, no padding is
needed.

The Padding bits

MUST

 be set to zero by the sender and

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

5.2.11.  SUPPORTED-PRIMITIVES

The following is the format of the SUPPORTED-PRIMITIVES attribute.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 1 0 1 1|M|    Length     |   Primitive   |   Primitive   |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |   Primitive   |   Primitive   |   Primitive   |   Primitive   |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
  /                                                               /
  /                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                               |            Padding            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 18: SUPPORTED-PRIMITIVES format

Primitive:

These ﬁelds contain the types of the BFCP messages that are supported by the ﬂoor

control server. See Table 1 for the list of BFCP primitives.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Padding: One, two, or three octets of padding added so that the contents of the SUPPORTED-

PRIMITIVES attribute is 32-bit aligned. If the attribute is already 32-bit aligned, no padding is
needed.

The Padding bits

MUST

 be set to zero by the sender and

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

5.2.12.  USER-DISPLAY-NAME

The following is the format of the USER-DISPLAY-NAME attribute.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 1 1 0 0|M|    Length     |                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
  |                                                               |
  /                             Text                              /
  /                                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                               |    Padding    |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 19: USER-DISPLAY-NAME format

Text:

This ﬁeld contains the UTF-8 encoded name of the user.

Padding:

One, two, or three octets of padding added so that the contents of the USER-DISPLAY-

NAME attribute is 32-bit aligned. The Padding bits
be ignored by the receiver. If the attribute is already 32-bit aligned, no padding is needed.

 be set to zero by the sender and

MUST

MUST

5.2.13.  USER-URI

The following is the format of the USER-URI attribute.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 1 1 0 1|M|    Length     |                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
  |                                                               |
  /                             Text                              /
  /                                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                               |    Padding    |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 20: USER-URI format

Text:

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

This ﬁeld contains the UTF-8 encoded user's contact URI, that is, the URI used by the user to
set up the resources (e.g., media streams) that are controlled by BFCP. For example, in the
context of a conference set up by SIP, the USER-URI attribute would carry the SIP URI of the
user.

Messages containing a user's URI in a USER-URI attribute also contain the user's User
ID. This way, a client receiving such a message can correlate the user's URI (e.g., the
SIP URI the user used to join a conference) with the user's User ID.

Padding:

One, two, or three octets of padding added so that the contents of the USER-URI
attribute is 32-bit aligned. The Padding bits
MUST
MUST
ignored by the receiver. If the attribute is already 32-bit aligned, no padding is needed.

 be set to zero by the sender and

 be

5.2.14.  BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION

The BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION attribute is a grouped attribute that consists of a header,
which is referred to as BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION-HEADER, followed by a sequence of
attributes. The following is the format of the BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION-HEADER:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 1 1 1 0|M|    Length     |        Beneficiary ID         |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 21: BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION-HEADER format

Beneﬁciary ID:
conference.

This ﬁeld contains a 16-bit value that uniquely identiﬁes a user within a

The following is the ABNF (Augmented Backus-Naur Form)
INFORMATION grouped attribute. (EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE refers to extension attributes that
may be deﬁned in the future.)

 of the BENEFICIARY-

[5]

BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION =  BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION-HEADER
                           [USER-DISPLAY-NAME]
                           [USER-URI]
                          *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 22: BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION format

5.2.15.  FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION

The FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION attribute is a grouped attribute that consists of a header,
which is referred to as FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION-HEADER, followed by a sequence of
attributes. The following is the format of the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION-HEADER:

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 0 1 1 1 1|M|    Length     |       Floor Request ID        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 23: FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION-HEADER format

Floor Request ID: This ﬁeld contains a 16-bit value that identiﬁes a ﬂoor request at the ﬂoor

control server.

The following is the ABNF of the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute.
(EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE refers to extension attributes that may be deﬁned in the future.)

FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION =   FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION-HEADER
                              [OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS]
                            1*FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS
                              [BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION]
                              [REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION]
                              [PRIORITY]
                              [PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO]
                             *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 24: FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION format

5.2.16.  REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION

The REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION attribute is a grouped attribute that consists of a header,
which is referred to as REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION-HEADER, followed by a sequence of
attributes. The following is the format of the REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION-HEADER:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 1 0 0 0 0|M|    Length     |       Requested-by ID         |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 25: REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION-HEADER format

Requested-by ID:
conference.

This ﬁeld contains a 16-bit value that uniquely identiﬁes a user within a

The following is the ABNF of the REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION grouped attribute. (EXTENSION-
ATTRIBUTE refers to extension attributes that may be deﬁned in the future.)

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION =  REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION-HEADER
                            [USER-DISPLAY-NAME]
                            [USER-URI]
                           *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 26: REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION format

5.2.17.  FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS

The FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS attribute is a grouped attribute that consists of a header, which is
referred to as FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS-HEADER, followed by a sequence of attributes. The
following is the format of the FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS-HEADER:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 1 0 0 0 1|M|    Length     |           Floor ID            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 27: FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS-HEADER format

Floor ID:

this ﬁeld contains a 16-bit value that uniquely identiﬁes a ﬂoor within a conference.

The following is the ABNF of the FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS grouped attribute. (EXTENSION-
ATTRIBUTE refers to extension attributes that may be deﬁned in the future.)

FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS =  FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS-HEADER
                        [REQUEST-STATUS]
                        [STATUS-INFO]
                       *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 28: FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS format

5.2.18.  OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS

The OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS attribute is a grouped attribute that consists of a header, which
is referred to as OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS-HEADER, followed by a sequence of attributes. The
following is the format of the OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS-HEADER:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |0 0 1 0 0 1 0|M|    Length     |       Floor Request ID        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 29: OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS-HEADER format

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Floor Request ID: This ﬁeld contains a 16-bit value that identiﬁes a ﬂoor request at the ﬂoor

control server.

The following is the ABNF of the OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS grouped attribute. (EXTENSION-
ATTRIBUTE refers to extension attributes that may be deﬁned in the future.)

OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS =  OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS-HEADER
                          [REQUEST-STATUS]
                          [STATUS-INFO]
                         *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 30: OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS format

5.3.  Message Format

This section contains the normative ABNF (Augmented Backus-Naur Form)
messages. Extension attributes that may be deﬁned in the future are referred to as EXTENSION-
ATTRIBUTE in the ABNF.

 of the BFCP

[5]

5.3.1.  FloorRequest

Floor participants request a ﬂoor by sending a FloorRequest message to the ﬂoor control server.
The following is the format of the FloorRequest message:

FloorRequest =   COMMON-HEADER
               1*FLOOR-ID
                 [BENEFICIARY-ID]
                 [PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO]
                 [PRIORITY]
                *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 31: FloorRequest format

5.3.2.  FloorRelease

Floor participants release a ﬂoor by sending a FloorRelease message to the ﬂoor control server.
Floor participants also use the FloorRelease message to cancel pending ﬂoor requests. The
following is the format of the FloorRelease message:

FloorRelease =  COMMON-HEADER
                FLOOR-REQUEST-ID
               *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 32: FloorRelease format

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

5.3.3.  FloorRequestQuery

Floor participants and ﬂoor chairs request information about a ﬂoor request by sending a
FloorRequestQuery message to the ﬂoor control server. The following is the format of the
FloorRequestQuery message:

FloorRequestQuery =  COMMON-HEADER
                     FLOOR-REQUEST-ID
                    *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 33: FloorRequestQuery format

5.3.4.  FloorRequestStatus

The ﬂoor control server informs ﬂoor participants and ﬂoor chairs about the status of their ﬂoor
requests by sending them FloorRequestStatus messages. The following is the format of the
FloorRequestStatus message:

FloorRequestStatus =  COMMON-HEADER
                      FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION
                     *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 34: FloorRequestStatus format

5.3.5.  UserQuery

Floor participants and ﬂoor chairs request information about a participant and the ﬂoor
requests related to this participant by sending a UserQuery message to the ﬂoor control server.
The following is the format of the UserQuery message:

UserQuery =  COMMON-HEADER
             [BENEFICIARY-ID]
            *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 35: UserQuery format

5.3.6.  UserStatus

The ﬂoor control server provides information about participants and their related ﬂoor requests
to ﬂoor participants and ﬂoor chairs by sending them UserStatus messages. The following is the
format of the UserStatus message:

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

UserStatus =  COMMON-HEADER
              [BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION]
             *FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION
             *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 36: UserStatus format

5.3.7.  FloorQuery

Floor participants and ﬂoor chairs request information about a ﬂoor or ﬂoors by sending a
FloorQuery message to the ﬂoor control server. The following is the format of the FloorQuery
message:

FloorQuery =  COMMON-HEADER
             *FLOOR-ID
             *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 37: FloorQuery format

5.3.8.  FloorStatus

The ﬂoor control server informs ﬂoor participants and ﬂoor chairs about the status (e.g., the
current holder) of a ﬂoor by sending them FloorStatus messages. The following is the format of
the FloorStatus message:

FloorStatus =  COMMON-HEADER
              *FLOOR-ID
              *FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION
              *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 38: FloorStatus format

5.3.9.  ChairAction

Floor chairs send instructions to ﬂoor control servers by sending them ChairAction messages.
The following is the format of the ChairAction message:

ChairAction =  COMMON-HEADER
               FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION
              *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 39: ChairAction format

5.3.10.  ChairActionAck

Floor control servers conﬁrm that they have accepted a ChairAction message by sending a
ChairActionAck message. The following is the format of the ChairActionAck message:

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

ChairActionAck =  COMMON-HEADER
                 *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 40: ChairActionAck format

5.3.11.  Hello

Floor participants and ﬂoor chairs
Hello message. Additionally, clients communicating with a ﬂoor control server over an unreliable
transport use the Hello message to initiate communication with the server. The following is the
format of the Hello message:

 check the liveness of ﬂoor control servers by sending a

MAY

Hello =  COMMON-HEADER
        *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 41: Hello format

5.3.12.  HelloAck

Floor control servers conﬁrm that they are alive on reception of a Hello message by sending a
HelloAck message. The following is the format of the HelloAck message:

HelloAck =  COMMON-HEADER
            SUPPORTED-PRIMITIVES
            SUPPORTED-ATTRIBUTES
           *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 42: HelloAck format

5.3.13.  Error

Floor control servers inform ﬂoor participants and ﬂoor chairs about errors processing requests
by sending them Error messages. The following is the format of the Error message:

Error =  COMMON-HEADER
         ERROR-CODE
         [ERROR-INFO]
        *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 43: Error format

5.3.14.  FloorRequestStatusAck

When communicating over an unreliable transport, ﬂoor participants and chairs acknowledge
the receipt of a subsequent FloorRequestStatus message from the ﬂoor control server (cf. Section
13.1.2) by sending a FloorRequestStatusAck message. The following is the format of the
FloorRequestStatusAck message:

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

FloorRequestStatusAck =  (COMMON-HEADER)
                        *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 44: FloorRequestStatusAck format

5.3.15.  FloorStatusAck

When communicating over an unreliable transport, ﬂoor participants and chairs acknowledge
the receipt of a subsequent FloorStatus message from the ﬂoor control server (cf. Section 13.5.2)
by sending a FloorStatusAck message. The following is the format of the FloorStatusAck message:

FloorStatusAck =  (COMMON-HEADER)
                 *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 45: FloorStatusAck format

5.3.16.  Goodbye

BFCP entities communicating over an unreliable transport that wish to dissociate themselves
from their remote participant do so through the transmission of a Goodbye. The following is the
format of the Goodbye message:

Goodbye =  (COMMON-HEADER)
          *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 46: Goodbye format

5.3.17.  GoodbyeAck

BFCP entities communicating over an unreliable transport acknowledge the receipt of a Goodbye
message from a peer. The following is the format of the GoodbyeAck message:

GoodbyeAck =  (COMMON-HEADER)
             *EXTENSION-ATTRIBUTE

Figure 47: GoodbyeAck format

6.  Transport

The transport over which BFCP entities exchange messages depends on the information the
clients obtain for contacting the ﬂoor control server, as described in Section 3.2. Two transports
are supported: TCP, which is appropriate where connectivity is not impeded by network
elements such as NAT devices or media relays; and UDP for those deployments where TCP may
not be applicable or appropriate.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Note: In practice, products are conﬁgured to try one transport ﬁrst and then use the
other transport as a fallback. Whether TCP or UDP is chosen as underlying transport
depends on the type of product and the deployment environment. See Appendix B
for additional considerations.

6.1.  Reliable Transport

BFCP entities may elect to exchange BFCP messages using TCP connections. TCP provides an in-
order reliable delivery of a stream of bytes. Consequently, message framing needs to be
implemented in the application layer. BFCP implements application-layer framing using TLV-
encoded attributes.

MUST NOT

A client
 use more than one TCP connection to communicate with a given ﬂoor control
server within a conference. Nevertheless, if the same physical box handles diﬀerent clients (e.g.,
a ﬂoor chair and a ﬂoor participant), which are identiﬁed by diﬀerent User IDs, a separate
connection per client is allowed.

 close the TCP connection, and the connection

If a BFCP entity (a client or a ﬂoor control server) receives data that cannot be parsed, the entity
 be reestablished. Similarly, if a TCP
MUST
connection cannot deliver a BFCP message and times out or receives an ICMP port unreachable
message mid-connection, the TCP connection

 be reestablished.

SHOULD

SHOULD

The way connection reestablishment is handled depends on how the client obtains information
to contact the ﬂoor control server. Once the TCP connection is reestablished, the client
resend those messages for which it did not get a response from the ﬂoor control server.

MAY

If a ﬂoor control server detects that the TCP connection towards one of the ﬂoor participants is
lost, it is up to the local policy of the ﬂoor control server what to do with the pending ﬂoor
requests of the ﬂoor participant. In any case, it is
keep the ﬂoor requests (i.e., that it does not cancel them) while the TCP connection is
reestablished.

 that the ﬂoor control server

RECOMMENDED

If a client wishes to end its BFCP connection with a ﬂoor control server, the client closes (i.e., a
graceful close) the TCP connection towards the ﬂoor control server. If a ﬂoor control server
wishes to end its BFCP connection with a client (e.g., the focus of the conference informs the ﬂoor
control server that the client has been kicked out of the conference), the ﬂoor control server
closes (i.e., a graceful close) the TCP connection towards the client.

MUST

SHOULD NOT

 repeatedly reestablish the connection. Rather, if the same protocol
 cease attempts and

In cases where a BFCP entity reestablishes a connection due to protocol errors as described
above, the entity
errors persist, the entity
 report the error to the human user
and/or log the event. This does not preclude the entity from reestablishing a connection when
facing a diﬀerent set of errors. That said, entities
reestablishment requests. A connection
MUST NOT
is a matter of implementation, but
period of time.

MUST
 be reestablished too frequently. The frequency

 be attempted more than once in a 30 second

 avoid overloading the server with

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

6.2.  Unreliable Transport

BFCP entities may elect to exchange BFCP messages using UDP datagrams. UDP is an unreliable
transport where neither delivery nor ordering is assured. Each BFCP UDP datagram
contain exactly one BFCP message or message fragment. To keep large BFCP messages from being
fragmented at the IP layer, the fragmentation of BFCP messages that exceed the path MTU size is
performed at the BFCP level. Considerations related to fragmentation are covered in Section
6.2.3. The message format for BFCP messages is the same regardless of whether the messages are
sent in UDP datagrams or over a TCP stream.

MUST

MUST

 announce their presence to the ﬂoor control server by sending a Hello message. The
Clients
ﬂoor control server responds to the Hello message with a HelloAck message. The client considers
the ﬂoor control server as present and available only upon receiving the HelloAck message. The
behavior when timers ﬁre, including the determination that a connection is broken, is described
in Section 8.3.

As described in Section 8, each request sent by a ﬂoor participant or chair forms a client
transaction that expects an acknowledgement message from the ﬂoor control server within a
transaction failure window. Concordantly, messages sent by the ﬂoor control server that initiate
new transactions (e.g., FloorStatus announcements as part of a FloorQuery subscription) require
acknowledgement messages from the ﬂoor participant and chair entities to which they were
sent.

If a ﬂoor control server receives data that cannot be parsed, the receiving server
Error message with parameter value 10 (Unable to Parse Message) indicating receipt of a
malformed message, given that it is possible to parse the received message to such an extent that
an Error message may be built.

 send an

MUST

MUST

 have at most one outstanding request transaction per peer at any one time.

Entities
Implicit subscriptions occur for a client-initiated request transaction whose acknowledgement is
implied by the ﬁrst server-initiated response for that transaction, followed by zero of more
subsequent server-initiated messages corresponding to the same transaction. An example is a
FloorRequest message for which there are potentially multiple responses from the ﬂoor control
server as it processes intermediate states until a terminal state (e.g., Granted or Denied) is
attained. The subsequent changes in state for the request are new transactions whose
Transaction ID is determined by the ﬂoor control server and whose receipt by the client
participant is acknowledged with a FloorRequestStatusAck message.

By restricting entities to having at most one pending transaction open in a BFCP connection, both
the out-of-order receipt of messages as well as the possibility for congestion are mitigated.
Additional details regarding congestion control are provided in Section 6.2.1. If a participant
receives a server-initiated request (e.g., a FloorStatus from the ﬂoor control server) while waiting
for a response to a client-initiated transaction (e.g., the participant sent a FloorRequest and is
waiting for a FloorRequestStatus response), then the participant

 treat the server-initiated

MUST

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

request as superseding any response to its client-initiated transaction. As the ﬂoor control server
cannot send a second update to the implicit ﬂoor status subscription until the ﬁrst is
acknowledged, ordinality is maintained.

If a client wishes to end its BFCP connection with a ﬂoor control server, it is
client send a Goodbye message to dissociate itself from any allocated resources. If a ﬂoor control
server wishes to end its BFCP connection with a client (e.g., the focus of the conference informs
the ﬂoor control server that the client has been kicked out from the conference), it is
REQUIRED
that the ﬂoor control server send a Goodbye message towards the client.

REQUIRED

 that the

6.2.1.  Congestion Control

[15]
.

BFCP may be characterized as generating "low data-volume" traﬃc, per the classiﬁcation in
Nevertheless, it is necessary to ensure that suitable and necessary congestion control
mechanisms are used for BFCP over UDP. As described in Section 6.2, within the same BFCP
connection, every entity -- client or server -- is only allowed to send one request at a time, and
await the acknowledging response. This way, at most one datagram is sent per RTT given the
message is not lost during transmission. If the message is lost, the request retransmission timer
T1 speciﬁed in Section 8.3.1 will ﬁre, and the message is retransmitted up to three times, in
addition to the original transmission of the message. The default initial interval
500 ms, but is adjusted dynamically as described in Section 8.3.1. The interval
after each retransmission attempt. This is similar to the speciﬁcation of the timer A and its initial
value T1 in SIP as described in
, except that the value of T1 in this protocol
is not ﬁxed from one transaction to another.

 be set to
 be doubled

Section 17.1.1.2 of [20]

MUST

MUST

6.2.2.  ICMP Error Handling

ICMP is not usable when BFCP is running over an unreliable transport due to risks associated
with oﬀ-path attacks. Any ICMP messages associated with BFCP running over an unreliable
transport

 be ignored.

MUST

6.2.3.  Fragmentation Handling

When using UDP, a single BFCP message could be fragmented at the IP layer if its overall size
exceeds the path MTU of the network. To avoid this happening at the IP layer, a fragmentation
scheme for BFCP is deﬁned below.

BFCP is designed for achieving small message size, due to the binary encoding as described in
Section 1. The fragmentation scheme is therefore deliberately kept simple and straightforward,
since the probability of fragmentation of BFCP messages is small. By design, the fragmentation
scheme does not acknowledge individual BFCP message fragments. The whole BFCP message is
acknowledged if received completely.

BFCP entities
and
MAY

SHOULD

 consider the path MTU size available between the sender and the receiver

 run MTU discovery, such as described in

,
[25] [26]

, and

[27]

, for this purpose.

When transmitting a BFCP message with a size greater than the path MTU, the sender
fragment the message into a series of N contiguous data ranges. The size of each of these N
messages

 be smaller than the path MTU to help prevent fragmentation overlap attacks. The

MUST

MUST

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

value for N is deﬁned as ceil((message size -- COMMON-HEADER size) / (path MTU size --
COMMON-HEADER size)), where ceil is the integer ceiling function, and the COMMON-HEADER
size includes the Fragment Oﬀset and Fragment Length ﬁelds. The sender then creates N BFCP
fragment messages (one for each data range) with the same Transaction ID. The size of each of
 be smaller than the path MTU.
these N messages, with the COMMON-HEADER included,
The F ﬂag in the COMMON-HEADER in all the fragments is set to indicate fragmentation of the
BFCP message.

MUST

For each of these fragments, the Fragment Oﬀset and Fragment Length ﬁelds are included in the
COMMON-HEADER. The Fragment Oﬀset ﬁeld denotes the number of 4-octet units contained in
the previous fragments, excluding the COMMON-HEADER. The Fragment Length contains the
length of the fragment itself, also excluding the COMMON-HEADER. Note that the Payload Length
ﬁeld contains the length of the entire, unfragmented message.

When a BFCP implementation receives a BFCP message fragment, it
until either it has received the entire BFCP message, or until the Response Retransmission Timer
expires. The state machine should handle the BFCP message only after all the fragments of the
message have been received.

 buﬀer the fragment

MUST

If a fragment of a BFCP message is lost, the sender will not receive an acknowledgement for the
message. Therefore the sender will retransmit the message with same transaction ID as speciﬁed
in Section 8.3. If the acknowledgement message sent by the receiver is lost, then the entire
message will be resent by the sender. The receiver
The receiver
starting the timer after the receipt of the ﬁrst fragment.

 discard an incomplete buﬀer utilizing the Response Retransmission Timer,

 then retransmit the acknowledgement.

MUST

MAY

A Denial of Service (DoS) attack utilizing the fragmentation scheme described above
is mitigated by the fact that the Response Retransmission Timer is started after
receipt of the ﬁrst BFCP message fragment. In addition, the Payload Length ﬁeld can
be compared with the Fragment Oﬀset and Fragment Length ﬁelds to verify the
message fragments as they arrive. To make DoS attacks with spoofed IP addresses
diﬃcult, BFCP entities

 use the cookie exchange mechanism in DTLS

SHOULD

[8]

.

When deciding the size of the message fragment based on path MTU, the BFCP fragmentation
handling should take into account how the DTLS record framing expands the datagram size as
described in

Section 4.1.1.1 of [8]

.

6.2.4.  NAT Traversal

One of the key beneﬁts of using UDP for BFCP communication is the ability to leverage the
existing NAT traversal infrastructure and strategies deployed to facilitate transport of the media
associated with the video conferencing sessions. Depending on the given deployment, this
infrastructure typically includes some subset of Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)

[16]
.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

In order to facilitate the initial establishment of NAT bindings, and to maintain those bindings
once established, BFCP entities using an unreliable transport are
 to use STUN
 provides
.
 Binding Indication for keepalives, as described for ICE
[14]
useful recommendations for middlebox interaction when DTLS is used.

RECOMMENDED
[16] Section 6.7 of [28]

Note: Since the version number is set to 2 when BFCP is used over an unreliable
transport, cf. the Ver ﬁeld in Section 5.1, it is straightforward to distinguish between
STUN and BFCP packets even without checking the STUN magic cookie

[14]

.

In order to facilitate traversal of BFCP packets through NATs, BFCP entities using an unreliable
transport are
recommended for RTP/RTP Control Protocol (RTCP)

 to use symmetric ports for sending and receiving BFCP packets, as

RECOMMENDED

[13]

.

7.  Lower-Layer Security

BFCP relies on lower-layer security mechanisms to provide replay and integrity protection and
conﬁdentiality. BFCP ﬂoor control servers and clients (which include both ﬂoor participants and
ﬂoor chairs)
transport over UDP. Any BFCP entity

 support other security mechanisms.

 support TLS for transport over TCP

 support DTLS

MUST

MUST

 and

MAY

[11]

 for

[8]

MUST

 support, at a minimum, the TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA cipher suite
 for backwards compatibility with existing implementations of RFC 4582. In accordance with
 support the following cipher

BFCP entities
[7]
the recommendations and guidelines in
suites:

, BFCP entities

SHOULD

[30]

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384

8.  Protocol Transactions

In BFCP, there are two types of transactions: client-initiated transactions and server-initiated
transactions.

Client-initiated transactions consist of a request from a client to a ﬂoor control server and a
response from the ﬂoor control server to the client.

Server-initiated transactions have diﬀerent requirements and behavior depending on underlying
transport:

When using a reliable transport, server-initiated transactions consist of a single message
from a ﬂoor control server to a client (notiﬁcations). They do not trigger any response.

When using an unreliable transport, server-initiated transactions consist of a request from a
ﬂoor control server to a client and a response from the client to the ﬂoor control server.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

When using BFCP over an unreliable transport, retransmission timer T1 (see Section 8.3)
be used for all requests until the transaction is completed. Note that while T1 varies over time, it
remains constant for the duration of a given transaction and is only updated at the completion of
a transaction.

MUST

8.1.  Client Behavior

A client starting a client-initiated transaction
HEADER of the message to the Conference ID for the conference that the client obtained
previously.

 set the Conference ID in the COMMON-

MUST

MUST NOT

 be reused in another message from the client until a

 set the Transaction ID value in the COMMON-HEADER to a number that is

The client
MUST
diﬀerent from 0 and that
response from the server is received for the transaction. The client uses the Transaction ID value
to match this message with the response from the ﬂoor control server. When using BFCP over an
unreliable transport, it is important to choose a Transaction ID value that lets the receiver
distinguish the reception of the next message in a sequence of BFCP messages from a
retransmission of a previous message. Therefore, BFCP entities using an unreliable transport
MUST

 use monotonically increasing Transaction ID values (except for wrap-around).

A client receiving a server-initiated transaction over an unreliable transport
Transaction ID from the request received from the server into the response.

MUST

 copy the

8.2.  Server Behavior

A ﬂoor control server sending a response within a client-initiated transaction
Conference ID, the Transaction ID, and the User ID from the request received from the client into
the response.

 copy the

MUST

Server-initiated transactions
over a reliable transport. Over an unreliable transport, the Transaction ID shall have the same
properties as for client-initiated transactions. The server uses the Transaction ID value to match
this message with the response from the ﬂoor participant or ﬂoor chair.

 contain a Transaction ID equal to zero when BFCP is used

MUST

8.3.  Timers

When BFCP entities are communicating over an unreliable transport, two retransmission timers
are employed to help mitigate the loss of datagrams. Retransmission and response caching are
not required when BFCP entities communicate over a reliable transport.

8.3.1.  Request Retransmission Timer, T1

T1 is a timer that schedules retransmission of a request until an appropriate response is received
or until the maximum number of retransmissions has occurred. The timer is computed using the
[2]
smoothed round-trip time algorithm deﬁned in
value of 500 ms and clock granularity (G) of 100 ms. In contrast to step 2.4 of
the computed value of RTO is less than 500 ms, then RTO shall be set to 500 ms. Timer T1
adjusted with the reception of a response to each request transmitted in order to compute an

 with an initial retransmission timeout (RTO)

Section 2 of [2]

, if
MUST

 be

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

accurate RTO value, which is the eﬀective T1 value. The RTT value R is the time in milliseconds
from the time when a request is transmitted to the time the initial response to that request is
received. Responses to retransmitted packets
 be used to recompute the RTO value, as
one cannot determine if a response is to an initial or retransmitted request. If T1 always expires
on the initial transmission of a new request, this would suggest the recommended initial T1 (and
RTO) value is too low and
until T1 does not expire when sending a new request.

 be increased by doubling the initial values of T1 (and RTO)

MUST NOT

SHOULD

When retransmitting a request, timer T1 is doubled with each retransmission, failing after three
unacknowledged retransmission attempts.

If a valid response is not received for a client- or server-initiated transaction, the implementation
MUST
reestablishment procedure described in Section 6.

 consider the BFCP connection as broken. Implementations

 follow the

SHOULD

8.3.2.  Response Retransmission Timer, T2

T2 is a timer that, when ﬁred, signals that the BFCP entity can release knowledge of the
transaction against which it is running. It is started upon the ﬁrst transmission of the response to
a request and is the only mechanism by which that response is released by the BFCP entity. Any
subsequent retransmissions of the same request can be responded to by replaying the cached
response, while that value is retained until the timer has ﬁred. Refer to Section 6.2.3 for this
timer's role in the fragmentation handling scheme.

8.3.3.  Timer Values

The table below deﬁnes the diﬀerent timers required when BFCP entities communicate over an
unreliable transport.

Timer Description

Value/s

T1

T2

Initial request retransmission timer

0.5 s (initial)

Response retransmission timer

(T1*24)*1.25

Table 6: Timers

The initial value for T1 is 500 ms, which is an estimate of the RTT for completing the transaction.
Computation of this value follows the procedures described in Section 8.3.1, which includes
exponential backoﬀs on retransmissions.

MUST

 be set such that it encompasses all legal retransmissions per T1 plus a factor to

T2
accommodate network latency between BFCP entities, processing delays, etc.

9.  Authentication and Authorization

SHOULD

BFCP clients
or accepting any BFCP message from it. Similarly, ﬂoor control servers
client before accepting any BFCP message from it or sending any BFCP message to it.

 authenticate the ﬂoor control server before sending any BFCP message to it

 authenticate a

SHOULD

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

If the signaling or control protocol traﬃc used to set up the conference is authenticated and
conﬁdentiality and integrity protected, and the extensions in this document are supported, the
BFCP clients
authenticate the client before communicating as described above. Note that BFCP entities
supporting only the

 authenticate the ﬂoor control server, and the ﬂoor control servers

 subset may not comply with this mandatory authentication requirement.

MUST

MUST

[3]

BFCP supports TLS/DTLS mutual authentication between clients and ﬂoor control servers, as
speciﬁed in Section 9.1. This is the

 authentication mechanism in BFCP.

RECOMMENDED

Note that future extensions may deﬁne additional authentication mechanisms.

In addition to authenticating BFCP messages, ﬂoor control servers need to authorize them. On
receiving an authenticated BFCP message, the ﬂoor control server checks whether the client
sending the message is authorized. If the client is not authorized to perform the operation being
requested, the ﬂoor control server generates an Error message, as described in Section 13.8, with
an error code with a value of 5 (Unauthorized Operation). Messages from a client that cannot be
authorized

 be processed further.

MUST NOT

9.1.  TLS/DTLS Based Mutual Authentication

BFCP supports TLS/DTLS based mutual authentication between clients and ﬂoor control servers.
If TLS/DTLS is used, an initial integrity-protected channel is
ﬂoor control server that can be used to exchange their certiﬁcates (which
certiﬁcates) or, more commonly, the ﬁngerprints of these certiﬁcates. These certiﬁcates are used
at TLS/DTLS establishment time.

 between the client and the

 be self-signed

REQUIRED

MAY

The implementation of such an integrity-protected channel using SIP and the SDP
oﬀer/answer model is described in

[12]

.

BFCP messages received over an authenticated TLS/DTLS connection are considered
authenticated. A ﬂoor control server that receives a BFCP message over TCP/UDP (no TLS/DTLS)
 request the use of TLS/DTLS by generating an Error message, as described in Section 13.8,
MAY
with an error code with a value of 9 (Use TLS) or a value of 11 (Use DTLS) respectively. Clients
conﬁgured to require the use of TLS/DTLS

 ignore unauthenticated messages.

MUST

Note that future extensions may deﬁne additional authentication mechanisms that may not
require an initial integrity-protected channel (e.g., authentication based on certiﬁcates signed by
a certiﬁcate authority).

As described in Section 9, ﬂoor control servers need to perform authorization before processing
any message. In particular, the ﬂoor control server
given authenticated TLS/DTLS connection use an authorized User ID (i.e., a User ID that the user
that established the authenticated TLS/DTLS connection is allowed to use).

 check that messages arriving over a

MUST

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

10.  Floor Participant Operations

This section speciﬁes how ﬂoor participants can perform diﬀerent operations, such as requesting
a ﬂoor, using the protocol elements described in earlier sections. Section 11 speciﬁes operations
that are speciﬁc to ﬂoor chairs, such as instructing the ﬂoor control server to grant or revoke a
ﬂoor, and Section 12 speciﬁes operations that can be performed by any client (i.e., both ﬂoor
participants and ﬂoor chairs).

10.1.  Requesting a Floor

A ﬂoor participant that wishes to request one or more ﬂoors does so by sending a FloorRequest
message to the ﬂoor control server.

10.1.1.  Sending a FloorRequest Message

The ABNF in Section 5.3.1 describes the attributes that a FloorRequest message can contain. In
addition, the ABNF speciﬁes normatively which of these attributes are mandatory, and which
ones are optional.

The ﬂoor participant sets the Conference ID and the Transaction ID in the COMMON-HEADER
following the rules given in Section 8.1.

The ﬂoor participant sets the User ID in the COMMON-HEADER to the ﬂoor participant's
identiﬁer. If the sender of the FloorRequest message (identiﬁed by the User ID) is not the
participant that would eventually get the ﬂoor (i.e., a third-party ﬂoor request), the sender
SHOULD

 add a BENEFICIARY-ID attribute to the message identifying the beneﬁciary of the ﬂoor.

Note that the namespace for both the User ID and the Beneﬁciary ID is the same.
That is, a given participant is identiﬁed by a single 16-bit value that can be used in
the User ID in the COMMON-HEADER and in several attributes: BENEFICIARY-ID,
BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION, and REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION.

MUST

The ﬂoor participant
the client inserts more than one FLOOR-ID attribute, the ﬂoor control server will treat all the
ﬂoor requests as an atomic package. That is, the ﬂoor control server will either grant or deny all
the ﬂoors in the FloorRequest message.

 insert at least one FLOOR-ID attribute in the FloorRequest message. If

The ﬂoor participant may use a PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO attribute to state the reason why
the ﬂoor or ﬂoors are being requested. The Text ﬁeld in the PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO
attribute is intended for human consumption.

The ﬂoor participant may request that the server handle the ﬂoor request with a certain priority
using a PRIORITY attribute.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

10.1.2.  Receiving a Response

A message from the ﬂoor control server is considered a response to the FloorRequest message if
the message from the ﬂoor control server has the same Conference ID, Transaction ID, and User
ID as the FloorRequest message, as described in Section 8.1. On receiving such a response, the
ﬂoor participant follows the rules in Section 9 that relate to ﬂoor control server authentication.

The successful processing of a FloorRequest message at the ﬂoor control server involves
generating one or several FloorRequestStatus messages. The ﬂoor participant obtains a Floor
Request ID in the Floor Request ID ﬁeld of a FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION attribute in the ﬁrst
FloorRequestStatus message from the ﬂoor control server. Subsequent FloorRequestStatus
messages from the ﬂoor control server regarding the same ﬂoor request will carry the same
Floor Request ID in a FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION attribute as the initial FloorRequestStatus
message. This way, the ﬂoor participant can associate subsequent incoming FloorRequestStatus
messages with the ongoing ﬂoor request.

The ﬂoor participant obtains information about the status of the ﬂoor request in the FLOOR-
REQUEST-INFORMATION attribute of each of the FloorRequestStatus messages received from the
ﬂoor control server. This attribute is a grouped attribute, and as such it includes a number of
attributes that provide information about the ﬂoor request.

The OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS attribute provides information about the overall status of the
ﬂoor request. If the Request Status value is Granted, all the ﬂoors that were requested in the
FloorRequest message have been granted. If the Request Status value is Denied, all the ﬂoors that
were requested in the FloorRequest message have been denied. A ﬂoor request is considered to
be ongoing while it is in the Pending, Accepted, or Granted states. If the ﬂoor request value is
unknown, then the response is still processed. However, no meaningful value can be reported to
the user.

The STATUS-INFO attribute, if present, provides extra information that the ﬂoor participant can
display to the user.

The FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS attributes provide information about the status of the ﬂoor request
as it relates to a particular ﬂoor. The STATUS-INFO attribute, if present, provides extra
information that the ﬂoor participant can display to the user.

The BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION attribute identiﬁes the beneﬁciary of the ﬂoor request in third-
party ﬂoor requests. The REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION attribute need not be present in
FloorRequestStatus messages received by the ﬂoor participant that requested the ﬂoor, as this
ﬂoor participant is already identiﬁed by the User ID in the COMMON-HEADER.

The PRIORITY attribute, when present, contains the priority that was requested by the generator
of the FloorRequest message.

If the response is an Error message, the ﬂoor control server could not process the FloorRequest
message for some reason, which is described in the Error message.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

10.1.3.  Reception of a Subsequent FloorRequestStatus Message

When communicating over an unreliable transport and upon receiving a FloorRequestStatus
message from a ﬂoor control server, the participant
message within the transaction failure window to complete the transaction.

 respond with a FloorRequestStatusAck

MUST

10.2.  Cancelling a Floor Request and Releasing a Floor

A ﬂoor participant that wishes to cancel an ongoing ﬂoor request does so by sending a
FloorRelease message to the ﬂoor control server. The FloorRelease message is also used by ﬂoor
participants that hold a ﬂoor and would like to release it.

10.2.1.  Sending a FloorRelease Message

The ABNF in Section 5.3.2 describes the attributes that a FloorRelease message can contain. In
addition, the ABNF speciﬁes normatively which of these attributes are mandatory, and which
ones are optional.

The ﬂoor participant sets the Conference ID and the Transaction ID in the COMMON-HEADER
following the rules given in Section 8.1. The ﬂoor participant sets the User ID in the COMMON-
HEADER to the ﬂoor participant's identiﬁer.

Note that the FloorRelease message is used to release a ﬂoor or ﬂoors that were
granted and to cancel ongoing ﬂoor requests (from the protocol perspective, both
are ongoing ﬂoor requests). Using the same message in both situations helps resolve
the race condition that occurs when the FloorRelease message and the FloorGrant
message cross each other on the wire.

The ﬂoor participant uses the FLOOR-REQUEST-ID that was received in the response to the
FloorRequest message that the FloorRelease message is cancelling.

Note that if the ﬂoor participant requested several ﬂoors as an atomic operation
(i.e., in a single FloorRequest message), all the ﬂoors are released as an atomic
operation as well (i.e., all are released at the same time).

10.2.2.  Receiving a Response

A message from the ﬂoor control server is considered a response to the FloorRelease message if
the message from the ﬂoor control server has the same Conference ID, Transaction ID, and User
ID as the FloorRelease message, as described in Section 8.1. On receiving such a response, the
ﬂoor participant follows the rules in Section 9 that relate to ﬂoor control server authentication.

If the response is a FloorRequestStatus message, the Request Status value in the OVERALL-
REQUEST-STATUS attribute (within the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute) will
be Cancelled or Released.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

If the response is an Error message, the ﬂoor control server could not process the FloorRequest
message for some reason, which is described in the Error message.

It is possible that the FloorRelease message crosses on the wire with a FloorRequestStatus
message from the server with a Request Status diﬀerent from Cancelled or Released. In any case,
such a FloorRequestStatus message will not be a response to the FloorRelease message, as its
Transaction ID will not match that of the FloorRelease.

11.  Chair Operations

This section speciﬁes how ﬂoor chairs can instruct the ﬂoor control server to grant or revoke a
ﬂoor using the protocol elements described in earlier sections.

Floor chairs that wish to send instructions to a ﬂoor control server do so by sending a
ChairAction message.

11.1.  Sending a ChairAction Message

The ABNF in Section 5.3.9 describes the attributes that a ChairAction message can contain. In
addition, the ABNF speciﬁes normatively which of these attributes are mandatory, and which
ones are optional.

The ﬂoor chair sets the Conference ID and the Transaction ID in the COMMON-HEADER following
the rules given in Section 8.1. The ﬂoor chair sets the User ID in the COMMON-HEADER to the
ﬂoor chair's identiﬁer.

The ChairAction message contains instructions that apply to one or more ﬂoors within a
particular ﬂoor request. The ﬂoor or ﬂoors are identiﬁed by the FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS
attributes and the ﬂoor request is identiﬁed by the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION-HEADER,
which are carried in the ChairAction message.

For example, if a ﬂoor request consists of two ﬂoors that depend on diﬀerent ﬂoor chairs, each
ﬂoor chair will grant its ﬂoor within the ﬂoor request. Once both chairs have granted their ﬂoor,
the ﬂoor control server will grant the ﬂoor request as a whole. On the other hand, if one of the
ﬂoor chairs denies its ﬂoor, the ﬂoor control server will deny the ﬂoor request as a whole,
regardless of the other ﬂoor chair's decision.

MAY

 use the Queue Position ﬁeld to provide a queue position for the ﬂoor request. If the

The ﬂoor chair provides the new status of the ﬂoor request as it relates to a particular ﬂoor using
a FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS attribute. If the new status of the ﬂoor request is Accepted, the ﬂoor
chair
ﬂoor chair does not wish to provide a queue position, all the bits of the Queue Position ﬁeld
be set to zero. The ﬂoor chair
(i.e., Granted status) and
MUST
(e.g., Pending and Accepted).

MUST
 use the Status Denied to reject ﬂoor requests in any other status

 use the Status Revoked to revoke a ﬂoor that was granted

MUST

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

MAY

 add an OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS attribute to the ChairAction message to
The ﬂoor chair
provide a new overall status for the ﬂoor request. If the new overall status of the ﬂoor request is
Accepted, the ﬂoor chair can use the Queue Position ﬁeld to provide a queue position for the
ﬂoor request.

Note that a particular ﬂoor control server can implement a diﬀerent queue for each
ﬂoor containing all the ﬂoor requests that relate to that particular ﬂoor, a general
queue for all ﬂoor requests, or both. Also note that a ﬂoor request can involve
several ﬂoors and that a ChairAction message can only deal with a subset of these
ﬂoors (e.g., if a single ﬂoor chair is not authorized to manage all the ﬂoors). In this
case, the ﬂoor control server will combine the instructions received from the
diﬀerent ﬂoor chairs in FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS attributes to come up with the
overall status of the ﬂoor request.

Note that, while the action of a ﬂoor chair may communicate information in the
OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS attribute, the ﬂoor control server may override, modify,
or ignore this ﬁeld's content.

MAY

The ﬂoor chair
 include STATUS-INFO attributes to state the reason why the ﬂoor or ﬂoors
are being accepted, granted, or revoked. The Text in the STATUS-INFO attribute is intended for
human consumption.

11.2.  Receiving a Response

A message from the ﬂoor control server is considered a response to the ChairAction message if
the message from the server has the same Conference ID, Transaction ID, and User ID as the
ChairAction message, as described in Section 8.1. On receiving such a response, the ﬂoor chair
follows the rules in Section 9 that relate to ﬂoor control server authentication.

A ChairActionAck message from the ﬂoor control server conﬁrms that the ﬂoor control server
has accepted the ChairAction message. An Error message indicates that the ﬂoor control server
could not process the ChairAction message for some reason, which is described in the Error
message.

12.  General Client Operations

This section speciﬁes operations that can be performed by any client. That is, they are not
speciﬁc to ﬂoor participants or ﬂoor chairs. They can be performed by both.

12.1.  Requesting Information about Floors

A client can obtain information about the status of a ﬂoor or ﬂoors in diﬀerent ways, which
include using BFCP and using out-of-band mechanisms. Clients using BFCP to obtain such
information use the procedures described in this section.

Clients request information about the status of one or several ﬂoors by sending a FloorQuery
message to the ﬂoor control server.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

12.1.1.  Sending a FloorQuery Message

The ABNF in Section 5.3.7 describes the attributes that a FloorQuery message can contain. In
addition, the ABNF speciﬁes normatively which of these attributes are mandatory, and which
ones are optional.

The client sets the Conference ID and the Transaction ID in the COMMON-HEADER following the
rules given in Section 8.1. The client sets the User ID in the COMMON-HEADER to the client's
identiﬁer.

The client inserts in the message all the Floor IDs it wants to receive information about. The ﬂoor
control server will send periodic information about all of these ﬂoors. If the client does not want
to receive information about a particular ﬂoor any longer, it sends a new FloorQuery message
removing the FLOOR-ID of this ﬂoor. If the client does not want to receive information about any
ﬂoor any longer, it sends a FloorQuery message with no FLOOR-ID attribute.

12.1.2.  Receiving a Response

A message from the ﬂoor control server is considered a response to the FloorQuery message if
the message from the ﬂoor control server has the same Conference ID, Transaction ID, and User
ID as the FloorQuery message, as described in Section 8.1. On receiving such a response, the
client follows the rules in Section 9 that relate to ﬂoor control server authentication.

On reception of the FloorQuery message, the ﬂoor control server
FloorStatus message or with an Error message. If the response is a FloorStatus message, it will
contain information about one of the ﬂoors the client requested information about. If the client
did not include any FLOOR-ID attribute in its FloorQuery message (i.e., the client does not want to
receive information about any ﬂoor any longer), the FloorStatus message from the ﬂoor control
server will not include any FLOOR-ID attribute either.

 respond with a

MUST

FloorStatus messages that carry information about a ﬂoor contain a FLOOR-ID attribute that
identiﬁes the ﬂoor. After this attribute, FloorStatus messages contain information about existing
(one or more) ﬂoor requests that relate to that ﬂoor. The information about each particular ﬂoor
request is encoded in a FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION attribute. This grouped attribute carries
a Floor Request ID that identiﬁes the ﬂoor request, followed by a set of attributes that provide
information about the ﬂoor request.

After the ﬁrst FloorStatus, the ﬂoor control server will continue sending FloorStatus messages,
periodically informing the client about changes on the ﬂoors the client requested information
about.

12.1.3.  Reception of a Subsequent FloorStatus Message

When communicating over an unreliable transport and upon receiving a FloorStatus message
from a ﬂoor control server, the participant
MUST
the transaction failure window to complete the transaction.

 respond with a FloorStatusAck message within

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

12.2.  Requesting Information about Floor Requests

A client can obtain information about the status of one or several ﬂoor requests in diﬀerent
ways, which include using BFCP and using out-of-band mechanisms. Clients using BFCP to obtain
such information use the procedures described in this section.

Clients request information about the current status of a ﬂoor request by sending a
FloorRequestQuery message to the ﬂoor control server.

Requesting information about a particular ﬂoor request is useful in a number of situations. For
example, on reception of a FloorRequest message, a ﬂoor control server may choose to return
FloorRequestStatus messages only when the ﬂoor request changes its state (e.g., from Accepted to
Granted), but not when the ﬂoor request advances in its queue. In this situation, if the user
requests it, the ﬂoor participant can use a FloorRequestQuery message to poll the ﬂoor control
server for the status of the ﬂoor request.

12.2.1.  Sending a FloorRequestQuery Message

The ABNF in Section 5.3.3 describes the attributes that a FloorRequestQuery message can
contain. In addition, the ABNF speciﬁes normatively which of these attributes are mandatory,
and which ones are optional.

The client sets the Conference ID and the Transaction ID in the COMMON-HEADER following the
rules given in Section 8.1. The client sets the User ID in the COMMON-HEADER to the client's
identiﬁer.

The client
control server.

MUST

 insert a FLOOR-REQUEST-ID attribute that identiﬁes the ﬂoor request at the ﬂoor

12.2.2.  Receiving a Response

A message from the ﬂoor control server is considered a response to the FloorRequestQuery
message if the message from the ﬂoor control server has the same Conference ID, Transaction ID,
and User ID as the FloorRequestQuery message, as described in Section 8.1. On receiving such a
response, the client follows the rules in Section 9 that relate to ﬂoor control server
authentication.

If the response is a FloorRequestStatus message, the client obtains information about the status
of the FloorRequest the client requested information about in a FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION
attribute.

If the response is an Error message, the ﬂoor control server could not process the
FloorRequestQuery message for some reason, which is described in the Error message.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

12.3.  Requesting Information about a User

A client can obtain information about a participant and the ﬂoor requests related to this
participant in diﬀerent ways, which include using BFCP and using out-of-band mechanisms.
Clients using BFCP to obtain such information use the procedures described in this section.

Clients request information about a participant and the ﬂoor requests related to this participant
by sending a UserQuery message to the ﬂoor control server.

This functionality may be useful for ﬂoor chairs or ﬂoor participants interested in the display
name and the URI of a particular ﬂoor participant. In addition, a ﬂoor participant may ﬁnd it
useful to request information about itself. For example, a ﬂoor participant, after experiencing
connectivity problems (e.g., its TCP connection with the ﬂoor control server was down for a while
and eventually was re-established), may need to request information about all the ﬂoor requests
associated to itself that still exist.

12.3.1.  Sending a UserQuery Message

The ABNF in Section 5.3.5 describes the attributes that a UserQuery message can contain. In
addition, the ABNF speciﬁes normatively which of these attributes are mandatory, and which
ones are optional.

The client sets the Conference ID and the Transaction ID in the COMMON-HEADER following the
rules given in Section 8.1. The client sets the User ID in the COMMON-HEADER to the client's
identiﬁer.

If the ﬂoor participant the client is requesting information about is not the client issuing the
UserQuery message (which is identiﬁed by the User ID in the COMMON-HEADER of the message),
the client

 insert a BENEFICIARY-ID attribute.

MUST

12.3.2.  Receiving a Response

A message from the ﬂoor control server is considered a response to the UserQuery message if the
message from the ﬂoor control server has the same Conference ID, Transaction ID, and User ID as
the UserQuery message, as described in Section 8.1. On receiving such a response, the client
follows the rules in Section 9 that relate to ﬂoor control server authentication.

If the response is a UserStatus message, the client obtains information about the ﬂoor participant
in a BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION grouped attribute and about the status of the ﬂoor requests
associated with the ﬂoor participant in FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION attributes.

If the response is an Error message, the ﬂoor control server could not process the UserQuery
message for some reason, which is described in the Error message.

12.4.  Obtaining the Capabilities of a Floor Control Server

A client that wishes to obtain the capabilities of a ﬂoor control server does so by sending a Hello
message to the ﬂoor control server.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

12.4.1.  Sending a Hello Message

The ABNF in Section 5.3.11 describes the attributes that a Hello message can contain. In addition,
the ABNF speciﬁes normatively which of these attributes are mandatory, and which ones are
optional.

The client sets the Conference ID and the Transaction ID in the COMMON-HEADER following the
rules given in Section 8.1. The client sets the User ID in the COMMON-HEADER to the client's
identiﬁer.

12.4.2.  Receiving Responses

A message from the ﬂoor control server is considered a response to the Hello message by the
client if the message from the ﬂoor control server has the same Conference ID, Transaction ID,
and User ID as the Hello message, as described in Section 8.1. On receiving such a response, the
client follows the rules in Section 9 that relate to ﬂoor control server authentication.

If the response is a HelloAck message, the ﬂoor control server could process the Hello message
successfully. The SUPPORTED-PRIMITIVES and SUPPORTED-ATTRIBUTES attributes indicate
which primitives and attributes, respectively, are supported by the server.

If the response is an Error message, the ﬂoor control server could not process the Hello message
for some reason, which is described in the Error message.

13.  Floor Control Server Operations

This section speciﬁes how ﬂoor control servers can perform diﬀerent operations, such as
granting a ﬂoor, using the protocol elements described in earlier sections.

On reception of a message from a client, the ﬂoor control server
of the primitive is supported. If it is not, the ﬂoor control server
described in Section 13.8, with Error Code 3 (Unknown Primitive).

MUST

MUST

 check whether the value
 send an Error message, as

On reception of a message from a client, the ﬂoor control server
of the Conference ID matched an existing conference. If it does not, the ﬂoor control server
send an Error message, as described in Section 13.8, with Error Code 1 (Conference Does Not
Exist).

 check whether the value

MUST

MUST

On reception of a message from a client, the ﬂoor control server follows the rules in Section 9
that relate to the authentication of the message.

On reception of a message from a client, the ﬂoor control server
understands all the mandatory ('M' bit set) attributes in the message. If the ﬂoor control server
does not understand all of them, the ﬂoor control server
described in Section 13.8, with Error Code 4 (Unknown Mandatory Attribute). The Error message
SHOULD

 list the attributes that were not understood.

 send an Error message, as

 check whether it

MUST

MUST

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

13.1.  Reception of a FloorRequest Message

On reception of a FloorRequest message, the ﬂoor control server follows the rules in Section 9
that relate to client authentication and authorization. If while processing the FloorRequest
message, the ﬂoor control server encounters an error, it
 generate an Error response
following the procedures described in Section 13.8.

MUST

BFCP allows ﬂoor participants to have several ongoing ﬂoor requests for the same
ﬂoor (e.g., the same ﬂoor participant can occupy more than one position in a queue
at the same time). A ﬂoor control server that only supports a certain number of
ongoing ﬂoor requests per ﬂoor participant (e.g., one) can use Error Code 8 (You
have Already Reached the Maximum Number of Ongoing Floor Requests for This
Floor) to inform the ﬂoor participant.

When communicating over an unreliable transport and upon receiving a FloorRequest from a
participant, the ﬂoor control server
transaction failure window to complete the transaction.

 respond with a FloorRequestStatus message within the

MUST

13.1.1.  Generating the First FloorRequestStatus Message

The successful processing of a FloorRequest message by a ﬂoor control server involves
generating one or several FloorRequestStatus messages, the ﬁrst of which
as soon as possible. If the ﬂoor control server cannot accept, grant, or deny the ﬂoor request right
away (e.g., a decision from a chair is needed), it
 use a Request Status value of Pending in
the OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS attribute (within the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped
attribute) of the ﬁrst FloorRequestStatus message it generates.

 be generated

SHOULD

SHOULD

The policy that a ﬂoor control server follows to grant or deny ﬂoors is outside the
scope of this document. A given ﬂoor control server may perform these decisions
automatically while another may contact a human acting as a chair every time a
decision needs to be made.

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
 copy the Conference ID, the Transaction ID, and the User ID from
the FloorRequest into the FloorRequestStatus, as described in Section 8.2. Additionally, the ﬂoor
control server
FloorRequestStatus. The attributes contained in this grouped attribute carry information about
the ﬂoor request.

 add a FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute to the

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
ﬂoor request, and
MUST
INFORMATION attribute. This identiﬁer will be used by the ﬂoor participant (or by a chair or
chairs) to refer to this speciﬁc ﬂoor request in the future.

MUST
 insert it in the Floor Request ID ﬁeld of the FLOOR-REQUEST-

 assign an identiﬁer that is unique within the conference to this

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
into the FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS attributes in the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped
attribute. These Floor IDs identify the ﬂoors being requested (i.e., the ﬂoors associated with this
particular ﬂoor request).

 copy the Floor IDs in the FLOOR-ID attributes of the FloorRequest

SHOULD

The ﬂoor control server
from the FloorRequest into a BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION attribute inside the FLOOR-REQUEST-
INFORMATION grouped attribute. Additionally, the ﬂoor control server
name and the URI of the beneﬁciary in this BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION attribute.

 copy (if present) the contents of the BENEFICIARY-ID attribute

 provide the display

MAY

The ﬂoor control server
REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION attribute inside the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped
attribute.

 provide information about the requester of the ﬂoor in a

MAY

The ﬂoor control server
the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute.

MAY

 copy (if present) the PRIORITY attribute from the FloorRequest into

Note that this attribute carries the priority requested by the participant. The priority
that the ﬂoor control server assigns to the ﬂoor request depends on the priority
requested by the participant and the rights the participant has according to the
policy of the conference. For example, a participant that is only allowed to use the
Normal priority may request Highest priority for a ﬂoor request. In that case, the
ﬂoor control server would ignore the priority requested by the participant.

The ﬂoor control server
the FloorRequest into the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute.

 copy (if present) the PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO attribute from

MAY

13.1.2.  Generation of Subsequent FloorRequestStatus Messages

A ﬂoor request is considered to be ongoing as long as it is not in the Cancelled, Released, or
Revoked states. If the OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS attribute (inside the FLOOR-REQUEST-
INFORMATION grouped attribute) of the ﬁrst FloorRequestStatus message generated by the ﬂoor
control server did not indicate any of these states, the ﬂoor control server will need to send
subsequent FloorRequestStatus messages.

When the status of the ﬂoor request changes, the ﬂoor control server
FloorRequestStatus messages with the appropriate Request Status. The ﬂoor control server
MUST
add a FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION attribute with a Floor Request ID equal to the one sent in
the ﬁrst FloorRequestStatus message to any new FloorRequestStatus related to the same ﬂoor
request. (The Floor Request ID identiﬁes the ﬂoor request to which the FloorRequestStatus
applies.)

 send new

SHOULD

When using BFCP over a reliable transport, the ﬂoor control server
of subsequent FloorRequestStatus messages to zero. When using BFCP over an unreliable
transport, the Transaction ID
 be non-zero and unique in the context of outstanding
transactions over an unreliable transport as described in Section 8.

MUST

MUST

 set the Transaction ID

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

The rate at which the ﬂoor control server sends FloorRequestStatus messages is a
matter of local policy. A ﬂoor control server may choose to send a new
FloorRequestStatus message every time the ﬂoor request moves in the ﬂoor request
queue, while another may choose only to send a new FloorRequestStatus message
when the ﬂoor request is Granted or Denied.

The ﬂoor control server may add a STATUS-INFO attribute to any of the FloorRequestStatus
messages it generates to provide extra information about its decisions regarding the ﬂoor
request (e.g., why it was denied).

Floor participants and ﬂoor chairs may request to be informed about the status of a
ﬂoor following the procedures in Section 12.1. If the processing of a ﬂoor request
changes the status of a ﬂoor (e.g., the ﬂoor request is granted and consequently the
ﬂoor has a new holder), the ﬂoor control server needs to follow the procedures in
Section 13.5 to inform the clients that have requested that information.

The COMMON-HEADER and the rest of the attributes are the same as in the ﬁrst
FloorRequestStatus message.

The ﬂoor control server can discard the state information about a particular ﬂoor request when
this reaches a status of Cancelled, Released, or Revoked.

When communicating over an unreliable transport and a FloorRequestStatusAck message is not
received within the transaction failure window, the ﬂoor control server
FloorRequestStatus message according to Section 6.2.

 retransmit the

MUST

13.2.  Reception of a FloorRequestQuery Message

On reception of a FloorRequestQuery message, the ﬂoor control server follows the rules in
Section 9 that relate to client authentication and authorization. If while processing the
FloorRequestQuery message, the ﬂoor control server encounters an error, it
Error response following the procedures described in Section 13.8.

MUST

 generate an

The successful processing of a FloorRequestQuery message by a ﬂoor control server involves
generating a FloorRequestStatus message, which

 be generated as soon as possible.

SHOULD

When communicating over an unreliable transport and upon receiving a FloorRequestQuery
from a participant, the ﬂoor control server
 respond with a FloorRequestStatus message
MUST
within the transaction failure window to complete the transaction.

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
the FloorRequestQuery message into the FloorRequestStatus message, as described in Section 8.2.
Additionally, the ﬂoor control server
MUST
FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute to the FloorRequestStatus.

 copy the Conference ID, the Transaction ID, and the User ID from

 include information about the ﬂoor request in the

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

The ﬂoor control server
FloorRequestQuery message into the Floor Request ID ﬁeld of the FLOOR-REQUEST-
INFORMATION attribute.

 copy the contents of the FLOOR-REQUEST-ID attribute from the

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
INFORMATION grouped attribute identifying the ﬂoors being requested (i.e., the ﬂoors associated
with the ﬂoor request identiﬁed by the FLOOR-REQUEST-ID attribute).

 add FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS attributes to the FLOOR-REQUEST-

MUST

SHOULD

The ﬂoor control server
INFORMATION grouped attribute identifying the beneﬁciary of the ﬂoor request. Additionally,
the ﬂoor control server
BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION attribute.

 provide the display name and the URI of the beneﬁciary in this

 add a BENEFICIARY-ID attribute to the FLOOR-REQUEST-

MAY

The ﬂoor control server
REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION attribute inside the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped
attribute.

 provide information about the requester of the ﬂoor in a

MAY

The ﬂoor control server
a PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO.

MAY

 provide the reason why the ﬂoor participant requested the ﬂoor in

The ﬂoor control server
PRIORITY attribute with the Priority value requested for the ﬂoor request and a STATUS-INFO
attribute with extra information about the ﬂoor request.

 also add to the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute a

MAY

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute with the current status of the ﬂoor request. The ﬂoor
control server
 provide information about the status of the ﬂoor request as it relates to each
of the ﬂoors being requested in the FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS attributes.

 add an OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS attribute to the FLOOR-

MAY

13.3.  Reception of a UserQuery Message

On reception of a UserQuery message, the ﬂoor control server follows the rules in Section 9 that
relate to client authentication and authorization. If while processing the UserQuery message, the
ﬂoor control server encounters an error, it
procedures described in Section 13.8.

 generate an Error response following the

MUST

The successful processing of a UserQuery message by a ﬂoor control server involves generating a
UserStatus message, which

 be generated as soon as possible.

SHOULD

When communicating over an unreliable transport and upon receiving a UserQuery from a
participant, the ﬂoor control server
transaction failure window to complete the transaction.

 respond with a UserStatus message within the

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
the UserQuery message into the UserStatus message, as described in Section 8.2.

 copy the Conference ID, the Transaction ID, and the User ID from

MUST

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 60

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

The sender of the UserQuery message is requesting information about all the ﬂoor requests
associated with a given participant (i.e., the ﬂoor requests where the participant is either the
beneﬁciary or the requester). This participant is identiﬁed by a BENEFICIARY-ID attribute or, in
the absence of a BENEFICIARY-ID attribute, by a the User ID in the COMMON-HEADER of the
UserQuery message.

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
 copy, if present, the contents of the BENEFICIARY-ID attribute from
the UserQuery message into a BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION attribute in the UserStatus message.
Additionally, the ﬂoor control server
participant about which the UserStatus message provides information in this BENEFICIARY-
INFORMATION attribute.

 provide the display name and the URI of the

MAY

SHOULD

 add to the UserStatus message a FLOOR-REQUEST-

The ﬂoor control server
INFORMATION grouped attribute for each ﬂoor request related to the participant about which
the message provides information (i.e., the ﬂoor requests where the participant is either the
beneﬁciary or the requester). For each FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION attribute, the ﬂoor
control server follows the following steps.

The ﬂoor control server
attribute applies to by ﬁlling the Floor Request ID ﬁeld of the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION
attribute.

 identify the ﬂoor request the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
INFORMATION grouped attribute identifying the ﬂoors being requested (i.e., the ﬂoors associated
with the ﬂoor request identiﬁed by the FLOOR-REQUEST-ID attribute).

 add FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS attributes to the FLOOR-REQUEST-

MUST

SHOULD

The ﬂoor control server
INFORMATION grouped attribute identifying the beneﬁciary of the ﬂoor request. Additionally,
the ﬂoor control server
BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION attribute.

 provide the display name and the URI of the beneﬁciary in this

 add a BENEFICIARY-ID attribute to the FLOOR-REQUEST-

MAY

The ﬂoor control server
REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION attribute inside the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped
attribute.

 provide information about the requester of the ﬂoor in a

MAY

The ﬂoor control server
a PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO.

MAY

 provide the reason why the ﬂoor participant requested the ﬂoor in

The ﬂoor control server
PRIORITY attribute with the Priority value requested for the ﬂoor request.

 also add to the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute a

MAY

The ﬂoor control server
REQUEST-STATUS attribute to the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute. The ﬂoor
 add a STATUS-INFO attribute with extra information about the ﬂoor request.
control server

 include the current status of the ﬂoor request in an OVERALL-

MUST

MAY

The ﬂoor control server
relates to each of the ﬂoors being requested in the FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS attributes.

 provide information about the status of the ﬂoor request as it

MAY

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 61

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

13.4.  Reception of a FloorRelease Message

On reception of a FloorRelease message, the ﬂoor control server follows the rules in Section 9
that relate to client authentication and authorization. If while processing the FloorRelease
message, the ﬂoor control server encounters an error, it
 generate an Error response
following the procedures described in Section 13.8.

MUST

The successful processing of a FloorRelease message by a ﬂoor control server involves generating
a FloorRequestStatus message, which

 be generated as soon as possible.

SHOULD

When communicating over an unreliable transport and upon receiving a FloorRelease from a
participant, the ﬂoor control server
transaction failure window to complete the transaction.

 respond with a FloorRequestStatus message within the

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
the FloorRelease message into the FloorRequestStatus message, as described in Section 8.2.

 copy the Conference ID, the Transaction ID, and the User ID from

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
FloorRequestStatus. The attributes contained in this grouped attribute carry information about
the ﬂoor request.

 add a FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute to the

MUST

The FloorRelease message identiﬁes the ﬂoor request it applies to using a FLOOR-REQUEST-ID.
 copy the contents of the FLOOR-REQUEST-ID attribute from the
The ﬂoor control server
FloorRelease message into the Floor Request ID ﬁeld of the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION
attribute.

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
the ﬂoor request identiﬁed by the FLOOR-REQUEST-ID attribute) in FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS
attributes to the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute.

 identify the ﬂoors being released (i.e., the ﬂoors associated with

MUST

MUST

 add an OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS attribute to the FLOOR-

The ﬂoor control server
REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute. The Request Status value
ﬂoor (or ﬂoors) had been previously granted, or Cancelled, if the ﬂoor (or ﬂoors) had not been
previously granted. The ﬂoor control server
MAY
information about the ﬂoor request.

 add a STATUS-INFO attribute with extra

SHOULD

 be Released, if the

13.5.  Reception of a FloorQuery Message

On reception of a FloorQuery message, the ﬂoor control server follows the rules in Section 9 that
relate to client authentication. If while processing the FloorQuery message, the ﬂoor control
server encounters an error, it
described in Section 13.8.

 generate an Error response following the procedures

MUST

When communicating over an unreliable transport and upon receiving a FloorQuery from a
participant, the ﬂoor control server
transaction failure window to complete the transaction.

 respond with a FloorStatus message within the

MUST

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 62

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

A ﬂoor control server receiving a FloorQuery message from a client
informed about the status of the ﬂoors identiﬁed by FLOOR-ID attributes in the FloorQuery
message. Floor control servers keep clients informed by using FloorStatus messages.

 keep this client

SHOULD

An individual FloorStatus message carries information about a single ﬂoor. So, when a
FloorQuery message requests information about more than one ﬂoor, the ﬂoor control server
needs to send separate FloorStatus messages for diﬀerent ﬂoors.

The information FloorQuery messages carry may depend on the user requesting the information.
For example, a chair may be able to receive information about pending requests, while a regular
user may not be authorized to do so.

13.5.1.  Generation of the First FloorStatus Message

The successful processing of a FloorQuery message by a ﬂoor control server involves generating
 be generated as soon as possible.
one or several FloorStatus messages, the ﬁrst of which

SHOULD

The ﬂoor control server
the FloorQuery message into the FloorStatus message, as described in Section 8.2.

 copy the Conference ID, the Transaction ID, and the User ID from

MUST

If the FloorQuery message did not contain any FLOOR-ID attribute, the ﬂoor control server sends
the FloorStatus message without adding any additional attribute and does not send any
subsequent FloorStatus message to the ﬂoor participant.

If the FloorQuery message contained one or more FLOOR-ID attributes, the ﬂoor control server
chooses one from among them and adds this FLOOR-ID attribute to the FloorStatus message. The
ﬂoor control server
ﬂoor request associated to the ﬂoor. Each FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute
contains a number of attributes that provide information about the ﬂoor request. For each
FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION attribute, the ﬂoor control server follows the following steps.

 add a FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute for each

SHOULD

The ﬂoor control server
attribute applies to by ﬁlling the Floor Request ID ﬁeld of the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION
attribute.

 identify the ﬂoor request the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
INFORMATION grouped attribute identifying the ﬂoors being requested (i.e., the ﬂoors associated
with the ﬂoor request identiﬁed by the FLOOR-REQUEST-ID attribute).

 add FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS attributes to the FLOOR-REQUEST-

MUST

SHOULD

The ﬂoor control server
INFORMATION grouped attribute identifying the beneﬁciary of the ﬂoor request. Additionally,
the ﬂoor control server
BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION attribute.

 provide the display name and the URI of the beneﬁciary in this

 add a BENEFICIARY-ID attribute to the FLOOR-REQUEST-

MAY

The ﬂoor control server
REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION attribute inside the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped
attribute.

 provide information about the requester of the ﬂoor in a

MAY

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 63

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

The ﬂoor control server
a PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO.

MAY

 provide the reason why the ﬂoor participant requested the ﬂoor in

The ﬂoor control server
PRIORITY attribute with the Priority value requested for the ﬂoor request.

 also add to the FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute a

MAY

The ﬂoor control server
REQUEST-INFORMATION grouped attribute with the current status of the ﬂoor request. The ﬂoor
 add a STATUS-INFO attribute with extra information about the ﬂoor request.
control server

 add an OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS attribute to the FLOOR-

MUST

MAY

The ﬂoor control server
relates to each of the ﬂoors being requested in the FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS attributes.

 provide information about the status of the ﬂoor request as it

MAY

13.5.2.  Generation of Subsequent FloorStatus Messages

If the FloorQuery message carried more than one FLOOR-ID attribute, the ﬂoor control server
 generate a FloorStatus message for each of them (except for the FLOOR-ID attribute
SHOULD
chosen for the ﬁrst FloorStatus message) as soon as possible. These FloorStatus messages are
generated following the same rules as those for the ﬁrst FloorStatus message (see Section 13.5.1),
but their Transaction ID is 0 when using a reliable transport and non-zero and unique in the
context of outstanding transactions when using an unreliable transport (cf. Section 8).

After generating these messages, the ﬂoor control server sends FloorStatus messages,
periodically keeping the client informed about all the ﬂoors for which the client requested
 be 0 when using a reliable transport
information. The Transaction ID of these messages
and non-zero and unique in the context of outstanding transactions when using an unreliable
transport (cf. Section 8).

MUST

The rate at which the ﬂoor control server sends FloorStatus messages is a matter of
local policy. A ﬂoor control server may choose to send a new FloorStatus message
every time a new ﬂoor request arrives, while another may choose to only send a
new FloorStatus message when a new ﬂoor request is Granted.

When communicating over an unreliable transport and a FloorStatusAck message is not received
within the transaction failure window, the ﬂoor control server
message according to Section 6.2.

 retransmit the FloorStatus

MUST

13.6.  Reception of a ChairAction Message

On reception of a ChairAction message, the ﬂoor control server follows the rules in Section 9 that
relate to client authentication and authorization. If while processing the ChairAction message,
the ﬂoor control server encounters an error, it
 generate an Error response following the
procedures described in Section 13.8.

MUST

The successful processing of a ChairAction message by a ﬂoor control server involves generating
a ChairActionAck message, which

 be generated as soon as possible.

SHOULD

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 64

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

When communicating over an unreliable transport and upon receiving a ChairAction from a
chair, the ﬂoor control server
transaction failure window to complete the transaction.

 respond with a ChairActionAck message within the

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
the ChairAction message into the ChairActionAck message, as described in Section 8.2.

 copy the Conference ID, the Transaction ID, and the User ID from

MUST

The ﬂoor control server needs to take into consideration the operation requested in the
ChairAction message (e.g., granting a ﬂoor) but does not necessarily need to perform it as
requested by the ﬂoor chair. The operation that the ﬂoor control server performs depends on the
ChairAction message and on the internal state of the ﬂoor control server.

For example, a ﬂoor chair may send a ChairAction message granting a ﬂoor that was requested
as part of an atomic ﬂoor request operation that involved several ﬂoors. Even if the chair
responsible for one of the ﬂoors instructs the ﬂoor control server to grant the ﬂoor, the ﬂoor
control server will not grant it until the chairs responsible for the other ﬂoors agree to grant
them as well.

So, the ﬂoor control server is ultimately responsible for keeping a coherent ﬂoor state using
instructions from ﬂoor chairs as input to this state.

If the new Status in the ChairAction message is Accepted and all the bits of the Queue Position
ﬁeld are zero, the ﬂoor chair is requesting that the ﬂoor control server assign a queue position
(e.g., the last in the queue) to the ﬂoor request based on the local policy of the ﬂoor control
server. (Of course, such a request only applies if the ﬂoor control server implements a queue.)

13.7.  Reception of a Hello Message

On reception of a Hello message, the ﬂoor control server follows the rules in Section 9 that relate
to client authentication. If while processing the Hello message, the ﬂoor control server
encounters an error, it
Section 13.8.

 generate an Error response following the procedures described in

MUST

If the version of BFCP speciﬁed in the version ﬁeld of the COMMON-HEADER is supported by the
ﬂoor control server, it
 respond with the same version number in the HelloAck; this deﬁnes
the version for all subsequent BFCP messages within this BFCP Connection.

MUST

When communicating over an unreliable transport and upon receiving a Hello from a
participant, the ﬂoor control server
 respond with a HelloAck message within the
transaction failure window to complete the transaction.

MUST

The successful processing of a Hello message by a ﬂoor control server involves generating a
HelloAck message, which
 be generated as soon as possible. The ﬂoor control server
MUST
HelloAck, as described in Section 8.2.

 copy the Conference ID, the Transaction ID, and the User ID from the Hello into the

SHOULD

The ﬂoor control server
listing all the primitives (i.e., BFCP messages) supported by the ﬂoor control server.

 add a SUPPORTED-PRIMITIVES attribute to the HelloAck message

MUST

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 65

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

The ﬂoor control server
listing all the attributes supported by the ﬂoor control server.

MUST

 add a SUPPORTED-ATTRIBUTES attribute to the HelloAck message

13.8.  Error Message Generation

Error messages are always sent in response to a previous message from the client as part of a
client-initiated transaction. The ABNF in Section 5.3.13 describes the attributes that an Error
message can contain. In addition, the ABNF speciﬁes normatively which of these attributes are
mandatory and which ones are optional.

The ﬂoor control server
the message from the client into the Error message, as described in Section 8.2.

 copy the Conference ID, the Transaction ID, and the User ID from

MUST

The ﬂoor control server
 add an ERROR-CODE attribute to the Error message. The ERROR-
CODE attribute contains an error code from Table 5. Additionally, the ﬂoor control server may
add an ERROR-INFO attribute with extra information about the error.

MUST

14.  Security Considerations

BFCP uses TLS/DTLS to provide mutual authentication between clients and servers. TLS/DTLS
also provides replay and integrity protection and conﬁdentiality. It is
DTLS with an encryption algorithm according to Section 7 always be used. In cases where
signaling/control traﬃc is properly protected, as described in Section 9, it is
mandated encryption algorithm. BFCP entities
with legacy implementation that do not use TLS/DTLS as long as these mechanisms provide
similar security properties. An example of other mechanisms to eﬀectively secure a nonsecure
BFCP connection is IPsec

 use other security mechanisms to interwork

RECOMMENDED

 that TLS/

REQUIRED

 to use a

.
[21]

MAY

The remainder of this section analyzes some of the threats against BFCP and how they are
addressed.

An attacker may attempt to impersonate a client (a ﬂoor participant or a ﬂoor chair) in order to
generate forged ﬂoor requests or to grant or deny existing ﬂoor requests. Client impersonation is
avoided by having servers only accept BFCP messages over authenticated TLS/DTLS connections.
The ﬂoor control server assumes that attackers cannot hijack the TLS/DTLS connection and,
therefore, that messages over the TLS/DTLS connection come from the client that was initially
authenticated.

An attacker may attempt to impersonate a ﬂoor control server. A successful attacker would be
able to make clients think that they hold a particular ﬂoor so that they would try to access a
resource (e.g., sending media) without having legitimate rights to access it. Floor control server
impersonation is avoided by having servers only accept BFCP messages over authenticated TLS/
DTLS connections, as well as ensuring clients only send and accept messages over authenticated
TLS/DTLS connections.

Attackers may attempt to modify messages exchanged by a client and a ﬂoor control server. The
integrity protection provided by TLS/DTLS connections prevents this attack.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 66

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

An attacker may attempt to fetch a valid message sent by a client to a ﬂoor control server and
replay it over a connection between the attacker and the ﬂoor control server. This attack is
prevented by having ﬂoor control servers check that messages arriving over a given
authenticated TLS/DTLS connection use an authorized user ID (i.e., a user ID that the user that
established the authenticated TLS/DTLS connection is allowed to use).

Attackers may attempt to pick messages from the network to get access to conﬁdential
information between the ﬂoor control server and a client (e.g., why a ﬂoor request was denied).
TLS/DTLS conﬁdentiality prevents this attack. Therefore, it is
with an encryption algorithm according to Section 7.

 that TLS/DTLS be used

REQUIRED

15.  IANA Considerations

The IANA has created a registry for BFCP parameters called "The Binary Floor Control Protocol
(BFCP) Parameters". This registry has a number of subregistries, which are described in the
following sections.

15.1.  Attributes Subregistry

This section establishes the "Attributes" subregistry under the BFCP Parameters registry. As per
the terminology in RFC 8126
Required". For the purposes of this subregistry, the BFCP attributes for which IANA registration is
requested
type, name, format, and semantics.

, the registration policy for BFCP attributes is "Speciﬁcation

 be deﬁned by a Standards Track RFC. Such an RFC

 specify the attribute's

MUST

MUST

[6]

For each BFCP attribute, the IANA registers its type, its name, and the reference to the RFC where
the attribute is deﬁned. The following table contains the initial values of this subregistry.

Type Attribute

Reference

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

BENEFICIARY-ID

FLOOR-ID

FLOOR-REQUEST-ID

PRIORITY

REQUEST-STATUS

ERROR-CODE

ERROR-INFO

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO

RFC 8855

STATUS-INFO

RFC 8855

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 67

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Type Attribute

Reference

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

SUPPORTED-ATTRIBUTES

RFC 8855

SUPPORTED-PRIMITIVES

RFC 8855

USER-DISPLAY-NAME

USER-URI

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION

RFC 8855

FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION RFC 8855

REQUESTED-BY-INFORMATION

RFC 8855

FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS

RFC 8855

OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS

RFC 8855

Table 7: Initial values of the BFCP Attributes subregistry

15.2.  Primitives Subregistry

This section establishes the "Primitives" subregistry under the BFCP Parameters registry. As per
the terminology in RFC 8126
Required". For the purposes of this subregistry, the BFCP primitives for which IANA registration
is requested
primitive's value, name, format, and semantics.

, the registration policy for BFCP primitives is "Speciﬁcation

 be deﬁned by a Standards Track RFC. Such an RFC

 specify the

MUST

MUST

[6]

For each BFCP primitive, the IANA registers its value, its name, and the reference to the RFC
where the primitive is deﬁned. The following table contains the initial values of this subregistry.

Value

Primitive

Reference

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

FloorRequest

RFC 8855

FloorRelease

RFC 8855

FloorRequestQuery

RFC 8855

FloorRequestStatus

RFC 8855

UserQuery

UserStatus

FloorQuery

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 68

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Value

Primitive

Reference

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

FloorStatus

ChairAction

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

ChairActionAck

RFC 8855

Hello

HelloAck

Error

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

FloorRequestStatusAck

RFC 8855

FloorStatusAck

RFC 8855

Goodbye

GoodbyeAck

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

Table 8: Initial values of the BFCP Primitives
subregistry

15.3.  Request Statuses Subregistry

This section establishes the "Request Statuses" subregistry under the BFCP Parameters registry.
As per the terminology in RFC 8126
"Speciﬁcation Required". For the purposes of this subregistry, the BFCP request statuses for
which IANA registration is requested
MUST

 specify the value and the semantics of the request status.

 be deﬁned by a Standards Track RFC. Such an RFC

, the registration policy for BFCP request statuses is

MUST

[6]

For each BFCP request status, the IANA registers its value, its meaning, and the reference to the
RFC where the request status is deﬁned. The following table contains the initial values of this
subregistry.

Value

Status

Reference

1

2

3

4

5

Pending

RFC 8855

Accepted

RFC 8855

Granted

RFC 8855

Denied

RFC 8855

Cancelled

RFC 8855

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 69

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Value

Status

Reference

6

7

Released

RFC 8855

Revoked

RFC 8855

Table 9: Initial values of the Request
Statuses subregistry

15.4.  Error Codes Subregistry

This section establishes the "Error Codes" subregistry under the BFCP Parameters registry. As per
the terminology in RFC 8126
Required". For the purposes of this subregistry, the BFCP error codes for which IANA registration
is requested
 specify the value and
the semantics of the error code, and any Error Speciﬁc Details that apply to it.

, the registration policy for BFCP error codes is "Speciﬁcation

 be deﬁned by a Standards Track RFC. Such an RFC

MUST

MUST

[6]

For each BFCP primitive, the IANA registers its value, its meaning, and the reference to the RFC
where the primitive is deﬁned. The following table contains the initial values of this subregistry.

Value Meaning

Reference

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

Conference Does Not Exist

User Does Not Exist

Unknown Primitive

Unknown Mandatory Attribute

Unauthorized Operation

Invalid Floor ID

Floor Request ID Does Not Exist

You have Already Reached the Maximum Number of Ongoing Floor
Requests for This Floor

Use TLS

Unable to Parse Message

Use DTLS

Unsupported Version

Incorrect Message Length

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

RFC 8855

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 70

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Value Meaning

14

Generic Error

Table 10: Initial values of the Error Codes subregistry

16.  Changes from RFC 4582

Reference

RFC 8855

The following is the list of technical changes and other non-trivial ﬁxes from

[3]
.

16.1.  Extensions for an Unreliable Transport

The main purpose of this work was to revise the speciﬁcation to support BFCP over an unreliable
transport, resulting in the following changes:

1.

Overview of Operation (Section 4):

Changed the description of client-initiated and server-initiated transactions, referring to
Section 8.

2.

COMMON-HEADER Format (Section 5.1):

Ver(sion) ﬁeld, where the value 2 is used for the extensions for an unreliable transport.
Added new R and F ﬂag bits for an unreliable transport. Res(erved) ﬁeld is now 3 bit. New
optional Fragment Oﬀset and Fragment Length ﬁelds.

3.

New primitives (Section 5.1):

Added four new primitives: FloorRequestStatusAck, FloorStatusAck, Goodbye, and
GoodbyeAck.

4.

New error codes (Section 5.2.6):

Added three new error codes: "Unable to Parse Message", "Use DTLS" and "Unsupported
Version". Note that two additional error codes were added, see Section 16.2.

5.

ABNF for new primitives (Section 5.3):

Added new subsections with normative ABNF for the new primitives.

6.

Transport split in two (Section 6):

Section 6 specifying the transport was split in two subsections; Section 6.1 for a reliable
transport and Section 6.2 for an unreliable transport. The speciﬁcation for an unreliable
transport, among other issues, deals with reliability, congestion control, fragmentation and
ICMP.

7.

Mandated DTLS (Section 7 and Section 9):

Mandated DTLS support when transport over UDP is used.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 71

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

8.

Transaction changes (Section 8):

Server-initiated transactions over an unreliable transport have non-zero and unique
Transaction IDs. Over an unreliable transport, the retransmit timers T1 and T2 described in
Section 8.3 apply.

9.

Timely response required (Section 8.3, Section 10.1.2, Section 10.2.2, Section 11.2, Section
12.1.2, Section 12.2.2, Section 12.3.2, Section 12.4.2, Section 10.1.3 and Section 12.1.3):

Described that a given response must be sent within the transaction failure window to
complete the transaction.

10.

Updated IANA Considerations (Section 15):

Added the new primitives and error codes to Section 15.2 and Section 15.4 respectively.

11.

Examples over an unreliable transport (Appendix A):

Added sample interactions over an unreliable transport for the scenarios in Figure 2 and
Figure 3

12.

Motivation for an unreliable transport (Appendix B):

Added introduction to and motivation for extending BFCP to support an unreliable transport.

16.2.  Other Changes

Clariﬁcations and bug ﬁxes:

1.

ABNF ﬁxes (Figure 22, Figure 24, Figure 26, Figure 28, Figure 30, and the ABNF ﬁgures in
Section 5.3):

Although formally correct in
equivalent form for clarity, e.g., s/*1(FLOOR-ID)/[FLOOR-ID]/ in Figure 38 and s/*[XXX]/*
(XXX)/ in the other ﬁgures.

, the notation has changed in a number of ﬁgures to an

[3]

2.

Typo (Section 12.4.2):

Changed from SUPPORTED-PRIMITVIES to SUPPORTED-PRIMITIVES in the second paragraph.

3.

Corrected attribute type (Section 13.1.1):

Changed from PARTICIPANT-PROVIDED-INFO to PRIORITY attribute in the eighth paragraph,
since the note below describes priority and that the last paragraph deals with PARTICIPANT-
PROVIDED-INFO.

4.

New error codes (Section 5.2.6):

Added two additional error codes: "Incorrect Message Length" and "Generic Error".

5.

New cipher suites (Section 7)

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 72

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Additional cipher suites are now speciﬁed which should be supported.

6.

Assorted clariﬁcations (Across the document):

Language clariﬁcations as a result of reviews. Also, the normative language was tightened
where appropriate, i.e. changed from

 in a number of places.

 strength to

SHOULD

MUST

17.  References

17.1.  Normative References

[1]

[2]

[3]

[4]

[5]

[6]

[7]

[8]

[9]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Paxson, V., Allman, M., Chu, J., and M. Sargent "Computing TCP's Retransmission
,
Timer" RFC 6298 DOI 10.17487/RFC6298
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc6298>

,
, June 2011,

.

,

Camarillo, G., Ott, J., and K. Drage "The Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP)"
RFC 4582 DOI 10.17487/RFC4582
info/rfc4582>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,
, November 2006,

,

.

,

Camarillo, G. "Connection Establishment in the Binary Floor Control Protocol
(BFCP)" RFC 5018 DOI 10.17487/RFC5018
<https://www.rfc-
editor.org/info/rfc5018>

, September 2007,

,

,

.

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

,

.

,

, June

Dierks, T. and E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
info/rfc5246>

, August 2008,

,
.

,

,

,
Rescorla, E. and N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
, January 2012,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
rfc6347>

,
.

,

,
Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

,

.

,

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 73

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

[10]

[11]

[12]

[13]

[14]

[15]

[16]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Camarillo, G., Kristensen, T., and C. Holmberg "Session Description Protocol
,
(SDP) Format for Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP) Streams" RFC 8856 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8856>
10.17487/RFC8856

, January 2021,

,

,

,
Wing, D. "Symmetric RTP / RTP Control Protocol (RTCP)" BCP 131 RFC 4961 DOI
10.17487/RFC4961

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4961>

, July 2007,

.

,

,

,

Rosenberg, J., Mahy, R., Matthews, P., and D. Wing "Session Traversal Utilities for
,
NAT (STUN)" RFC 5389 DOI 10.17487/RFC5389
.
editor.org/info/rfc5389>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2008,

,

,

Eggert, L., Fairhurst, G., and G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
,
8085 DOI 10.17487/RFC8085
rfc8085>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, March 2017,

,

.

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

17.2.  Informative References

[17]

[18]

[19]

[20]

[21]

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

,

.

,

,

Koskelainen, P., Ott, J., Schulzrinne, H., and X. Wu "Requirements for Floor
Control Protocols" RFC 4376 DOI 10.17487/RFC4376
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4376>

, February 2006,

,

,

.

,

<https://

Barnes, M., Boulton, C., and O. Levin "A Framework for Centralized
,
Conferencing" RFC 5239 DOI 10.17487/RFC5239
.
editor.org/info/rfc5239>

, June 2008,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R.,
Handley, M., and E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
10.17487/RFC3261

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
, June 2002,

,
.

,

Kent, S. and K. Seo "Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol" RFC 4301
DOI 10.17487/RFC4301
rfc4301>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2005,

.

,

,

,

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 74

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

[22]

[23]

[24]

[25]

[26]

[27]

[28]

[29]

[30]

[31]

[32]

[33]

[34]

Novo, O., Camarillo, G., Morgan, D., and J. Urpalainen "Conference Information
Data Model for Centralized Conferencing (XCON)" RFC 6501 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6501

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6501>

, March 2012,

,

,

,

.

Barnes, M., Boulton, C., Romano, S., and H. Schulzrinne "Centralized
Conferencing Manipulation Protocol" RFC 6503 DOI 10.17487/RFC6503
2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6503>

,
.

,

,

, March

Barnes, M., Miniero, L., Presta, R., and S P. Romano "Centralized Conferencing
Manipulation Protocol (CCMP) Call Flow Examples" RFC 6504 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6504

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6504>

, March 2012,

,
,

,

.

Mogul, J. and S. Deering "Path MTU discovery" RFC 1191 DOI 10.17487/
RFC1191

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1191>

, November 1990,

,

,

.

,
McCann, J., Deering, S., Mogul, J., and R. Hinden, Ed. "Path MTU Discovery for IP
, July 2017,
<https://www.rfc-
version 6" STD 87 RFC 8201 DOI 10.17487/RFC8201
editor.org/info/rfc8201>

.

,

,

,

Mathis, M. and J. Heﬀner "Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery" RFC 4821
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4821

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4821>

, March 2007,

,

,

,

,
Fischl, J., Tschofenig, H., and E. Rescorla "Framework for Establishing a Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) Security Context Using Datagram Transport
,
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 5763 DOI 10.17487/RFC5763
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5763>

, May 2010,

<https://

,

Tuexen, M. and R. Stewart "UDP Encapsulation of Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP) Packets for End-Host to End-Host Communication" RFC 6951
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6951

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6951>

, May 2013,

,

,

,

,
Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

,

Huitema, C. "Teredo: Tunneling IPv6 over UDP through Network Address
Translations (NATs)" RFC 4380 DOI 10.17487/RFC4380
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4380>

, February 2006,

,

,

.

<https://

,
,
Thaler, D. "Teredo Extensions" RFC 6081 DOI 10.17487/RFC6081
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6081>

,

, January 2011,

Stewart, R., Ed. "Stream Control Transmission Protocol" RFC 4960 DOI
10.17487/RFC4960

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4960>

, September 2007,

,

,

.

Rosenberg, J., Keranen, A., Lowekamp, B. B., and A. B. Roach "TCP Candidates
with Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)" RFC 6544 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6544

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6544>

, March 2012,

,
,

,

.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 75

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

[35]

[36]

[37]

[38]

Manner, J., Varis, N., and B. Briscoe "Generic UDP Tunnelling (GUT)" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-manner-tsvwg-gut-02
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-manner-tsvwg-gut-02>

, 12 July 2010,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Stucker, B., Tschofenig, H., and G. Salgueiro "Analysis of Middlebox Interactions
,
,
for Signaling Protocol Communication along the Media Path" Work in Progress
, 30 May 2013,
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-mmusic-media-path-middleboxes-07
.
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-mmusic-media-path-middleboxes-07>

,

Guha, S. and P. Francis "Characterization and Measurement of TCP Traversal
through NATs and Firewalls"
tech/full_papers/guha/guha.pdf>

<https://www.usenix.org/legacy/event/imc05/

, 2005,
.

,

Ford, B., Srisuresh, P., and D. Kegel "Peer-to-Peer Communication Across
, April 2005,
Network Address Translators"
events/usenix05/tech/general/full_papers/ford/ford.pdf>

<https://www.usenix.org/legacy/

.

,

Appendix A.  Example Call Flows for BFCP over an Unreliable
Transport

With reference to Section 4.1, the following ﬁgures show representative call ﬂows for requesting
and releasing a ﬂoor, and obtaining status information about a ﬂoor when BFCP is deployed over
an unreliable transport. The ﬁgures here show a lossless interaction.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 76

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 77

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

      Floor Participant                                 Floor Control
                                                           Server
              |(1) FloorRequest                               |
              |Transaction Responder: 0                       |
              |Transaction ID: 123                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |FLOOR-ID: 543                                  |
              |---------------------------------------------->|
              |                                               |
              |(2) FloorRequestStatus                         |
              |Transaction Responder: 1                       |
              |Transaction ID: 123                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
              |      Floor Request ID: 789                    |
              |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
              |              Request Status: Pending          |
              |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
              |            Floor ID: 543                      |
              |<----------------------------------------------|
              |                                               |
              |(3) FloorRequestStatus                         |
              |Transaction Responder: 0                       |
              |Transaction ID: 124                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
              |      Floor Request ID: 789                    |
              |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
              |              Request Status: Accepted         |
              |              Queue Position: 1st              |
              |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
              |            Floor ID: 543                      |
              |<----------------------------------------------|
              |                                               |
              |(4) FloorRequestStatusAck                      |
              |Transaction Responder: 1                       |
              |Transaction ID: 124                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |---------------------------------------------->|
              |                                               |
              |(5) FloorRequestStatus                         |
              |Transaction Responder: 0                       |
              |Transaction ID: 125                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
              |      Floor Request ID: 789                    |
              |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
              |              Request Status: Granted          |
              |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
              |            Floor ID: 543                      |
              |<----------------------------------------------|
              |                                               |
              |(6) FloorRequestStatusAck                      |
              |Transaction Responder: 1                       |
              |Transaction ID: 125                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |---------------------------------------------->|

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 78

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

              |                                               |
              |(7) FloorRelease                               |
              |Transaction Responder: 0                       |
              |Transaction ID: 126                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |FLOOR-REQUEST-ID: 789                          |
              |---------------------------------------------->|
              |                                               |
              |(8) FloorRequestStatus                         |
              |Transaction Responder: 1                       |
              |Transaction ID: 126                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
              |      Floor Request ID: 789                    |
              |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
              |              Request Status: Released         |
              |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
              |            Floor ID: 543                      |
              |<----------------------------------------------|

Figure 48: Requesting and releasing a ﬂoor

Note that in Figure 48, the FloorRequestStatus message from the ﬂoor control server to the ﬂoor
participant is a transaction-closing message as a response to the client-initiated transaction with
Transaction ID 126. As such, it is not followed by a FloorRequestStatusAck message from the ﬂoor
participant to the ﬂoor control server.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 79

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 80

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

      Floor Participant                                 Floor Control
                                                           Server
              |(1) FloorQuery                                 |
              |Transaction Responder: 0                       |
              |Transaction ID: 257                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |FLOOR-ID: 543                                  |
              |---------------------------------------------->|
              |                                               |
              |(2) FloorStatus                                |
              |Transaction Responder: 1                       |
              |Transaction ID: 257                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |FLOOR-ID:543                                   |
              |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
              |      Floor Request ID: 764                    |
              |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
              |              Request Status: Accepted         |
              |              Queue Position: 1st              |
              |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
              |            Floor ID: 543                      |
              |      BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION                  |
              |                  Beneficiary ID: 124          |
              |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
              |      Floor Request ID: 635                    |
              |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
              |              Request Status: Accepted         |
              |              Queue Position: 2nd              |
              |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
              |            Floor ID: 543                      |
              |      BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION                  |
              |                  Beneficiary ID: 154          |
              |<----------------------------------------------|
              |                                               |
              |(3) FloorStatus                                |
              |Transaction Responder: 0                       |
              |Transaction ID: 258                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |FLOOR-ID:543                                   |
              |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
              |      Floor Request ID: 764                    |
              |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
              |              Request Status: Granted          |
              |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
              |            Floor ID: 543                      |
              |      BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION                  |
              |                  Beneficiary ID: 124          |
              |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
              |      Floor Request ID: 635                    |
              |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
              |              Request Status: Accepted         |
              |              Queue Position: 1st              |
              |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
              |            Floor ID: 543                      |
              |      BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION                  |
              |                  Beneficiary ID: 154          |
              |<----------------------------------------------|

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 81

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

              |                                               |
              |(4) FloorStatusAck                             |
              |Transaction Responder: 1                       |
              |Transaction ID: 258                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |---------------------------------------------->|
              |                                               |
              |(5) FloorStatus                                |
              |Transaction Responder: 0                       |
              |Transaction ID: 259                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |FLOOR-ID:543                                   |
              |FLOOR-REQUEST-INFORMATION                      |
              |      Floor Request ID: 635                    |
              |      OVERALL-REQUEST-STATUS                   |
              |              Request Status: Granted          |
              |      FLOOR-REQUEST-STATUS                     |
              |            Floor ID: 543                      |
              |      BENEFICIARY-INFORMATION                  |
              |                  Beneficiary ID: 154          |
              |<----------------------------------------------|
              |                                               |
              |(6) FloorStatusAck                             |
              |Transaction Responder: 1                       |
              |Transaction ID: 259                            |
              |User ID: 234                                   |
              |---------------------------------------------->|

Figure 49: Obtaining status information about a ﬂoor

Appendix B.  Motivation for Supporting an Unreliable
Transport

This appendix is provided as an aid to understand the background and rationale for adding
support for unreliable transport.

B.1.  Motivation

In existing video conferencing deployments, BFCP is used to manage the ﬂoor for the content
sharing associated with the conference. For peer-to-peer scenarios, including business-to-
business conferences and point-to-point conferences in general, it is frequently the case that one
or both endpoints exist behind a NAT. BFCP roles are negotiated in the oﬀer/answer exchange as
speciﬁed in
used for the BFCP communication.

, resulting in one endpoint being responsible for opening the TCP connection

[12]

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 82

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

             +---------+
             | Network |
             +---------+
      +-----+ /       \ +-----+
      | NAT |/         \| NAT |
      +-----+           +-----+
+----+ /                     \ +----+
|BFCP|/                       \|BFCP|
| UA |                         | UA |
+----+                         +----+

Figure 50: Use case

The communication session between the video conferencing endpoints typically consists of a
number of RTP over UDP media streams for audio and video and a BFCP connection for ﬂoor
control. Existing deployments are most common in, but not limited to, enterprise networks. In
existing deployments, NAT traversal for the RTP streams works using ICE and/or other methods,
including those described in

.
[36]

When enhancing an existing SIP-based video conferencing deployment with support for content
sharing, the BFCP connection often poses a problem. The reasons for this fall into two general
classes. First, there may be a strong preference for UDP-based signaling in general. On high-
capacity endpoints (e.g., Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) gateways or SIP/H.323 inter-
working gateways), TCP can suﬀer from head-of-line blocking, and it uses many kernel buﬀers.
Network operators view UDP as a way to avoid both of these. Second, the establishment and
traversal of the TCP connection involving ephemeral ports, as is typically the case with BFCP over
TCP, can be problematic, as described in
. A broad study of NAT behavior and
peer-to-peer TCP establishment for a comprehensive set of TCP NAT traversal techniques over a
wide range of commercial NAT products concluded that it was not possible to establish a TCP
connection in 11% of the cases
study of hole-punching as a NAT traversal technique across a wide variety of deployed NATs
reported consistently higher success rates when using UDP than when using TCP

. The results are worse when focusing on enterprise NATs. A

Appendix A of [34]

.
[38]

[37]

It is worth noting that BFCP over UDP is already being used in real deployments, underlining the
necessity to specify a common way to exchange BFCP messages where TCP is not appropriate, to
avoid a situation where multiple diﬀerent and non-interoperable implementations would coexist
in the market. The purpose of this document is to extend the standard speciﬁcation to support
unreliable transport in order to facilitate complete interoperability between implementations.

B.1.1.  Alternatives Considered

In selecting the approach of deﬁning UDP as an alternate transport for BFCP, several alternatives
were considered and explored to some degree. Each of these is discussed brieﬂy in the following
subsections. In summary, while the alternatives that were not chosen work in a number of
scenarios, they are not suﬃcient, in and of themselves, to address the use case targeted by this
document. The last alternative, presented in Appendix B.1.1.7, was selected and is speciﬁed in
this document.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 83

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

It is also worth noting that the IETF Transport Area was asked for a way to tunnel TCP over UDP,
but at that point there was no consensus on how to achieve that.

B.1.1.1.  ICE TCP

[34]

 extends ICE to TCP-based media, including the ability to oﬀer a mix of TCP- and UDP-

Appendix A
) than enabling UDP connectivity in the same scenarios. The happens because many of the

ICE TCP
based candidates for a single stream. ICE TCP has, in general, a lower success probability for
enabling TCP connectivity without a relay if both of the hosts are behind a NAT (see
of [34]
currently deployed NATs in video conferencing networks do not support the ﬂow of TCP
handshake packets seen in the case of TCP simultaneous-open, either because they do not allow
incoming TCP SYN packets from an address to which a SYN packet has been sent recently, or
because they do not properly process the subsequent SYNACK. Implementing various techniques
advocated for candidate collection in
these techniques require support from some network elements (e.g., from the NATs). Such
support is not common in enterprise NATs.

 should increase the success probability, but many of

[34]

B.1.1.2.  Teredo

[31]

 enables nodes located behind one or more IPv4 NATs to obtain IPv6 connectivity by

Teredo
tunneling packets over UDP. Teredo extensions
including support for more types of NATs and support for more eﬃcient communication.

 provide additional capabilities to Teredo,

[32]

[31]

. These servers and relays generally do not exist in current video

As deﬁned, Teredo could be used to make BFCP work for the video conferencing use cases
addressed in this document. However, running the service requires the help of "Teredo servers"
and "Teredo relays"
conferencing deployments. It also requires IPv6 awareness on the endpoints. It should also be
noted that ICMP6, as used with Teredo to complete an initial protocol exchange and conﬁrm that
the appropriate NAT bindings have been set up, is not a conventional feature of IPv4 or even
IPv6, and some currently deployed IPv6 ﬁrewalls discard ICMP messages. As these networks
continue to evolve and tackle the transaction to IPv6, Teredo servers and relays may be deployed,
making Teredo available as a suitable alternative to BFCP over UDP.

B.1.1.3.  GUT

[35]

GUT
 attempts to facilitate tunneling over UDP by encapsulating the native transport protocol
and its payload (in general the whole IP payload) within a UDP packet destined to the well-known
port GUT_P. Unfortunately, it requires user-space TCP, for which there is not a readily available
implementation, and creating one is a large project in itself. This document has expired, and its
future is still unclear as it has not yet been adopted by a working group.

B.1.1.4.  UPnP IGD

Universal Plug and Play Internet Gateway Devices (UPnP IGD) sit on the edge of the network,
providing connectivity to the Internet for computers internal to the LAN, but do not allow
Internet devices to connect to computers on the internal LAN. IGDs enable a computer on an
internal LAN to create port mappings on their NAT, through which hosts on the Internet can send
data that will be forwarded to the computer on the internal LAN. IGDs may be self-contained
hardware devices or may be software components provided within an operating system.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 84

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

In considering UPnP IGD, several issues exist. Not all NATs support UPnP, and many that do
support it are conﬁgured with it turned oﬀ by default. NATs are often multilayered, and UPnP
does not work well with such NATs. For example, a typical DSL modem acts as a NAT, and the
user plugs in a wireless access point behind that, which adds another layer of NAT. The client can
discover the ﬁrst layer of NAT using multicast, but it is harder to ﬁgure out how to discover and
control NATs in the next layer up.

B.1.1.5.  NAT PMP

The NAT Port Mapping Protocol (NAT PMP) allows a computer in a private network (behind a
NAT router) to automatically conﬁgure the router to allow parties outside the private network to
contact it. NAT PMP runs over UDP. It essentially automates the process of port forwarding.
Included in the protocol is a method for retrieving the public IP address of a NAT gateway, thus
allowing a client to make this public IP address and port number known to peers that may wish
to communicate with it.

Many NATs do not support PMP. In those that do support it, it has similar issues with negotiation
of multilayer NATs as UPnP. Video conferencing is used extensively in enterprise networks, and
NAT PMP is not generally available in enterprise-class routers.

B.1.1.6.  SCTP

[33]

It would be quite straightforward to specify a BFCP binding for Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP)
SCTP is gaining some momentum currently. There was ongoing discussion in the RTCWeb
Working Group regarding this approach, which resulted in
tunneling over UDP was not mature enough when considered and was not even fully speciﬁed.

, and then tunnel SCTP over UDP in the use case described in Appendix B.1.

. However, this approach to

[29]

B.1.1.7.  BFCP over UDP Transport

To overcome the problems with establishing TCP ﬂows between BFCP entities, an alternative is to
deﬁne UDP as an alternate transport for BFCP, leveraging the same mechanisms in place for the
RTP over UDP media streams for the BFCP communication. When using UDP as the transport,
following the guidelines provided in

 is recommended.

[15]

Minor changes to the transaction model have been introduced in that all requests now have an
appropriate response to complete the transaction. The requests are sent with a retransmission
timer associated with the response to achieve reliability. This alternative does not change the
semantics of BFCP. It permits UDP as an alternate transport.

Existing implementations, in the spirit of the approach detailed in earlier draft versions of this
document, have demonstrated that this approach is feasible. Initial compatibility among
implementations has been achieved at previous interoperability events. The authors view this
extension as a pragmatic solution to an existing deployment challenge. This is the chosen
approach, and the extensions are speciﬁed in this document.

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 85

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Acknowledgements

,

,

[3]

. Additionally,

, provided useful ideas for RFC

 and
,
, and
Oscar Novo

Alan Johnston
Xiaotao Wu Paul Kyzivat Jonathan Rosenberg Miguel A. Garcia-Martin
 provided useful comments during

Adam Roach
The XCON Working Group chairs,
4582
,
Mary Barnes Ben Campbell Dave Morgan
the work with RFC 4582. The authors also acknowledge contributions to the revision of BFCP for
use over an unreliable transport from
E. Heggestad Trond G. Andersen Gonzalo Camarillo Roni Even Lorenzo Miniero Jörg Ott Eoin
,
McLeod Mark K. Thompson Hadriel Kaplan Dan Wing Cullen Jennings David Benham
Nivedita Melinkeri Woo Johnman Vijaya Mandava
Horvath
and important ﬁnal reviews were done by
editor for changes addressing IESG review comments.

 did a thorough review, revealing issues that needed clariﬁcation and changes. Useful

 who had the initial idea,

 helped tremendously as

Mary Barnes Paul Jones

Geir Arne Sandbakken

. In the ﬁnal phase,

Alfred
,

,
, and

,
Ernst

Alan Ford

.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Gonzalo Camarillo
Ericsson
Hirsalantie 11
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 gonzalo.camarillo@ericsson.com

Keith Drage
Email:

 drageke@ntlworld.com

Tom Kristensen
Jotron AS
Ringdalskogen 8
3270 Larvik
Norway
Email:

 tom.kristensen@jotron.com, tomkri@iﬁ.uio.no

Jörg Ott
Technical University Munich
Boltzmannstrasse 3
85748 Garching
Germany
Email:

 ott@in.tum.de

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 86

RFC 8855

BFCP

January 2021

Charles Eckel
Cisco
707 Tasman Drive
Milpitas California 95035
,
United States of America
Email:

 eckelcu@cisco.com

Camarillo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 87

