Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8724
Standards Track
April 2020
2070-1721

A. Minaburo
Acklio

L. Toutain
IMT Atlantique

C. Gomez
Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya

D. Barthel
Orange Labs

JC. Zuniga
SIGFOX

RFC 8724
SCHC: Generic Framework for Static Context Header
Compression and Fragmentation

Abstract

This document deﬁnes the Static Context Header Compression and fragmentation (SCHC)
framework, which provides both a header compression mechanism and an optional
fragmentation mechanism. SCHC has been designed with Low-Power Wide Area Networks
(LPWANs) in mind.

SCHC compression is based on a common static context stored both in the LPWAN device and in
the network infrastructure side. This document deﬁnes a generic header compression
mechanism and its application to compress IPv6/UDP headers.

This document also speciﬁes an optional fragmentation and reassembly mechanism. It can be
used to support the IPv6 MTU requirement over the LPWAN technologies. Fragmentation is
needed for IPv6 datagrams that, after SCHC compression or when such compression was not
possible, still exceed the Layer 2 maximum payload size.

The SCHC header compression and fragmentation mechanisms are independent of the speciﬁc
LPWAN technology over which they are used. This document deﬁnes generic functionalities and
oﬀers ﬂexibility with regard to parameter settings and mechanism choices. This document
standardizes the exchange over the LPWAN between two SCHC entities. Settings and choices
speciﬁc to a technology or a product are expected to be grouped into proﬁles, which are speciﬁed
in other documents. Data models for the context and proﬁles are out of scope.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8724

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Notation

3.  LPWAN Architecture

4.  Terminology

5.  SCHC Overview

5.1.  SCHC Packet Format

5.2.  Functional Mapping

6.  RuleID

7.  Compression/Decompression

7.1.  SCHC C/D Rules

7.2.  Packet Processing

7.3.  Matching Operators

7.4.  Compression/Decompression Actions (CDA)

7.4.1.  Processing Fixed-Length Fields

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

7.4.2.  Processing Variable-Length Fields

7.4.3.  Not-Sent CDA

7.4.4.  Value-Sent CDA

7.4.5.  Mapping-Sent CDA

7.4.6.  LSB CDA

7.4.7.  DevIID, AppIID CDA

7.4.8.  Compute-*

8.  Fragmentation/Reassembly

8.1.  Overview

8.2.  SCHC F/R Protocol Elements

8.2.1.  Messages

8.2.2.  Tiles, Windows, Bitmaps, Timers, Counters

8.2.3.  Integrity Checking

8.2.4.  Header Fields

8.3.  SCHC F/R Message Formats

8.3.1.  SCHC Fragment Format

8.3.2.  SCHC ACK Format

8.3.3.  SCHC ACK REQ Format

8.3.4.  SCHC Sender-Abort Format

8.3.5.  SCHC Receiver-Abort Format

8.4.  SCHC F/R Modes

8.4.1.  No-ACK Mode

8.4.2.  ACK-Always Mode

8.4.3.  ACK-on-Error Mode

9.  Padding Management

10. SCHC Compression for IPv6 and UDP Headers

10.1.  IPv6 Version Field

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

10.2.  IPv6 Traﬃc Class Field

10.3.  Flow Label Field

10.4.  Payload Length Field

10.5.  Next Header Field

10.6.  Hop Limit Field

10.7.  IPv6 Addresses Fields

10.7.1.  IPv6 Source and Destination Preﬁxes

10.7.2.  IPv6 Source and Destination IID

10.8.  IPv6 Extension Headers

10.9.  UDP Source and Destination Ports

10.10. UDP Length Field

10.11. UDP Checksum Field

11. IANA Considerations

12. Security Considerations

12.1.  Security Considerations for SCHC Compression/Decompression

12.1.1.  Forged SCHC Packet

12.1.2.  Compressed Packet Size as a Side Channel to Guess a Secret Token

12.1.3.  Decompressed Packet Diﬀerent from the Original Packet

12.2.  Security Considerations for SCHC Fragmentation/Reassembly

12.2.1.  Buﬀer Reservation Attack

12.2.2.  Corrupt Fragment Attack

12.2.3.  Fragmentation as a Way to Bypass Network Inspection

12.2.4.  Privacy Issues Associated with SCHC Header Fields

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Compression Examples

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Appendix B.  Fragmentation Examples

Appendix C.  Fragmentation State Machines

Appendix D.  SCHC Parameters

Appendix E.  Supporting Multiple Window Sizes for Fragmentation

Appendix F.  ACK-Always and ACK-on-Error on Quasi-Bidirectional Links

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document deﬁnes the Static Context Header Compression and fragmentation (SCHC)
framework, which provides both a header compression mechanism and an optional
fragmentation mechanism. SCHC has been designed with Low-Power Wide Area Networks
(LPWANs) in mind.

LPWAN technologies impose some strict limitations on traﬃc. For instance, devices sleep most of
the time and may only receive data during short periods of time after transmission, in order to
preserve battery. LPWAN technologies are also characterized by a greatly reduced data unit and/
or payload size (see

[RFC8376]

).

Header compression is needed for eﬃcient Internet connectivity to a node within an LPWAN.
The following properties of LPWANs can be exploited to get an eﬃcient header compression:

•

The network topology is star-oriented, which means that all packets between the same
source-destination pair follow the same path. For the needs of this document, the
architecture can simply be described as Devices (Dev) exchanging information with LPWAN
Application Servers (Apps) through a Network Gateway (NGW).

•

Because devices embed built-in applications, the traﬃc ﬂows to be compressed are known in
advance. Indeed, new applications are less frequently installed in an LPWAN device than
they are in a general-purpose computer or smartphone.

SCHC compression uses a Context (a set of Rules) in which information about header ﬁelds is
stored. This Context is static: the values of the header ﬁelds and the actions to do compression/
decompression do not change over time. This avoids the need for complex resynchronization
mechanisms. Indeed, a return path may be more restricted/expensive, or may sometimes be
completely unavailable
compatible with the characteristics of such LPWANs.

. A compression protocol that relies on feedback is not

[RFC8376]

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

In most cases, a small Rule identiﬁer is enough to represent the full IPv6/UDP headers. The SCHC
header compression mechanism is independent of the speciﬁc LPWAN technology over which it
is used.

Furthermore, some LPWAN technologies do not provide a fragmentation functionality; to
support the IPv6 MTU requirement of 1280 bytes
, they require a fragmentation
protocol at the adaptation layer below IPv6. Accordingly, this document deﬁnes an optional
fragmentation/reassembly mechanism to help LPWAN technologies support the IPv6 MTU
requirement.

[RFC8200]

This document deﬁnes generic functionality and oﬀers ﬂexibility with regard to parameter
settings and mechanism choices. Technology-speciﬁc settings are expected to be grouped into
Proﬁles speciﬁed in other documents.

2.  Requirements Notation

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  LPWAN Architecture

LPWAN architectures are similar among them, but each LPWAN technology names architecture
elements diﬀerently. In this document, we use terminology from
, which identiﬁes the
following entities in a typical LPWAN (see Figure 1):

[RFC8376]

•

Devices (Dev) are the end-devices or hosts (e.g., sensors, actuators, etc.). There can be a very
high density of devices per Radio Gateway.

•

The Radio Gateway (RGW) is the endpoint of the constrained link.

•

The Network Gateway (NGW) is the interconnection node between the Radio Gateway and
the Internet.

•

The Application Server (App) is the endpoint of the application-level protocol on the Internet
side.

 ()   ()   ()       |
  ()  () () ()     / \       +---------+
() () () () () () /   \======|    ^    |             +-----------+
 ()  ()   ()     |           | <--|--> |             |Application|
()  ()  ()  ()  / \==========|    v    |=============|   Server  |
  ()  ()  ()   /   \         +---------+             +-----------+
 Dev            RGWs             NGW                      App

Figure 1: LPWAN Architecture (Simpliﬁed from That Shown in RFC 8376)

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

4.  Terminology

This section deﬁnes terminology and abbreviations used in this document. It extends the
terminology of

[RFC8376]

.

The SCHC acronym is pronounced like "sheek" in English (or "chic" in French). Therefore, this
document writes "a SCHC Packet" instead of "an SCHC Packet".

App:

LPWAN Application Server, as deﬁned by
receiving packets to/from the Dev.

[RFC8376]

. It runs an application sending/

AppIID:

Application Interface Identiﬁer. The IID that identiﬁes the App interface.

Compression Residue:

The bits that remain to be sent (beyond the RuleID itself) after applying

the SCHC compression.

Context:

A set of Rules used to compress/decompress headers, or to fragment/reassemble a
packet.

Dev:

Device, as deﬁned by

[RFC8376]

.

DevIID:

Device Interface Identiﬁer. The IID that identiﬁes the Dev interface.

Downlink:

From the App to the Dev.

IID:

L2:

Interface Identiﬁer. See the IPv6 addressing architecture

[RFC7136]

.

Layer 2. The immediate lower layer that SCHC interfaces with, for example an
underlying LPWAN technology. It does not necessarily correspond to the OSI model
deﬁnition of Layer 2.

L2 Word:

This is the minimum subdivision of payload data that the L2 will carry. In most L2
technologies, the L2 Word is an octet. In bit-oriented radio technologies, the L2 Word
might be a single bit. The L2 Word size is assumed to be constant over time for each
device.

Padding:

Extra bits that may be appended by SCHC to a data unit that it passes down to L2 for
transmission. SCHC itself operates on bits, not bytes, and does not have any alignment
prerequisite. See Section 9.

Proﬁle:

SCHC oﬀers variations in the way it is operated, with a number of parameters listed in
Appendix D. A Proﬁle indicates a particular setting of all these parameters. Both ends of
a SCHC communication must be provisioned with the same Proﬁle information and
with the same set of Rules before the communication starts, so that there is no
ambiguity in how they expect to communicate.

Rule:

Part of the Context that describes how a packet is compressed/decompressed or
fragmented/reassembled.

RuleID:

Rule Identiﬁer. An identiﬁer for a Rule.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

SCHC:

Static Context Header Compression and fragmentation (SCHC), a generic framework.

SCHC C/D:

SCHC Compressor/Decompressor, or SCHC Compression/Decompression. The SCHC

entity or mechanism used on both sides, at the Dev and at the network, to achieve
compression/decompression of headers.

SCHC F/R:

SCHC Fragmenter/Reassembler or SCHC Fragmentation/Reassembly. The SCHC entity

or mechanism used on both sides, at the Dev and at the network, to achieve
fragmentation/reassembly of SCHC Packets.

SCHC Packet:

A packet (e.g., an IPv6 packet) whose header has been compressed as per the

header compression mechanism deﬁned in this document. If the header compression
process is unable to actually compress the packet header, the packet with the
uncompressed header is still called a SCHC Packet (in this case, a RuleID is used to
indicate that the packet header has not been compressed). See Section 7 for more
details.

Uplink:

From the Dev to the App.

Additional terminology for the optional SCHC F/R is found in Section 8.2.

Additional terminology for SCHC C/D is found in Section 7.1.

5.  SCHC Overview

SCHC can be characterized as an adaptation layer between an upper layer (for example, IPv6)
and an underlying layer (for example, an LPWAN technology). SCHC comprises two sublayers
(i.e., the Compression sublayer and the Fragmentation sublayer), as shown in Figure 2.

             +----------------+
             |      IPv6      |
          +- +----------------+
          |  |   Compression  |
    SCHC <   +----------------+
          |  |  Fragmentation |
          +- +----------------+
             |LPWAN technology|
             +----------------+

Figure 2: Example of Protocol Stack Comprising IPv6, SCHC, and an LPWAN Technology

Before an upper layer packet (e.g., an IPv6 packet) is transmitted to the underlying layer, header
compression is ﬁrst attempted. The resulting packet is called a "SCHC Packet", whether or not any
compression is performed. If needed by the underlying layer, the optional SCHC fragmentation
 be applied to the SCHC Packet. The inverse operations take place at the receiver. This
MAY
process is illustrated in Figure 3.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

A packet (e.g., an IPv6 packet)
         |                                           ^
         v                                           |
+------------------+                      +--------------------+
| SCHC Compression |                      | SCHC Decompression |
+------------------+                      +--------------------+
         |                                           ^
         |   If no fragmentation (*)                 |
         +-------------- SCHC Packet  -------------->|
         |                                           |
         v                                           |
+--------------------+                       +-----------------+
| SCHC Fragmentation |                       | SCHC Reassembly |
+--------------------+                       +-----------------+
      |     ^                                     |     ^
      |     |                                     |     |
      |     +---------- SCHC ACK (+) -------------+     |
      |                                                 |
      +-------------- SCHC Fragments -------------------+

        Sender                                    Receiver

*: the decision not to use SCHC fragmentation is left to each Profile
+: optional, depends on Fragmentation mode

Figure 3: SCHC Operations at the Sender and the Receiver

5.1.  SCHC Packet Format

The SCHC Packet is composed of the Compressed Header followed by the payload from the
original packet (see Figure 4). The Compressed Header itself is composed of the RuleID and a
Compression Residue, which is the output of compressing the packet header with the Rule
identiﬁed by that RuleID (see Section 7). The Compression Residue may be empty. Both the
RuleID and the Compression Residue potentially have a variable size, and are not necessarily a
multiple of bytes in size.

|------- Compressed Header -------|
+---------------------------------+--------------------+
|  RuleID  |  Compression Residue |      Payload       |
+---------------------------------+--------------------+

Figure 4: SCHC Packet

5.2.  Functional Mapping

Figure 5 maps the functional elements of Figure 3 onto the LPWAN architecture elements of
Figure 1.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

        Dev                                               App
+----------------+                               +----+ +----+ +----+
| App1 App2 App3 |                               |App1| |App2| |App3|
|                |                               |    | |    | |    |
|       UDP      |                               |UDP | |UDP | |UDP |
|      IPv6      |                               |IPv6| |IPv6| |IPv6|
|                |                               |    | |    | |    |
|SCHC C/D and F/R|                               |    | |    | |    |
+--------+-------+                               +----+ +----+ +----+
         |  +---+     +---+    +----+    +----+    .      .      .
         +~ |RGW| === |NGW| == |SCHC| == |SCHC|..... Internet ....
            +---+     +---+    |F/R |    |C/D |
                               +----+    +----+

Figure 5: Architectural Mapping

SCHC C/D and SCHC F/R are located on both sides of the LPWAN transmission, hereafter called
the "Dev side" and the "Network Infrastructure side".

The operation in the Uplink direction is as follows. The Device application uses IPv6 or IPv6/UDP
protocols. Before sending the packets, the Dev compresses their headers using SCHC C/D; if the
SCHC Packet resulting from the compression needs to be fragmented by SCHC, SCHC F/R is
performed (see Section 8). The resulting SCHC Fragments are sent to an LPWAN Radio Gateway
(RGW), which forwards them to a Network Gateway (NGW). The NGW sends the data to a SCHC F/
R for reassembly (if needed) and then to the SCHC C/D for decompression. After decompression,
the packet can be sent over the Internet to one or several Apps.

The SCHC F/R and SCHC C/D on the Network Infrastructure side can be part of the NGW or
located in the Internet as long as a tunnel is established between them and the NGW. For some
LPWAN technologies, it may be suitable to locate the SCHC F/R functionality nearer the NGW, in
order to better deal with time constraints of such technologies.

The SCHC C/Ds on both sides
sides.

MUST

 share the same set of Rules. So

MUST

 the SCHC F/Rs on both

The operation in the Downlink direction is similar to that in the Uplink direction, only reversing
the order in which the architecture elements are traversed.

6.  RuleID

RuleIDs identify the Rules used for compression/decompression or for fragmentation/reassembly.

The scope of the RuleID of a compression/decompression Rule is the link between the SCHC C/D
in a given Dev and the corresponding SCHC C/D in the Network Infrastructure side. The scope of
the RuleID of a fragmentation/reassembly Rule is the link between the SCHC F/R in a given Dev
and the corresponding SCHC F/R in the Network Infrastructure side. If such a link is
bidirectional, the scope includes both directions.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

The RuleIDs are therefore speciﬁc to the Context related to one Dev. Hence, multiple Dev
instances, which refer to diﬀerent Contexts,
MAY
the Network Infrastructure side, in order to identify the correct Rule to be applied to Uplink
traﬃc, the SCHC C/D or SCHC F/R needs to associate the RuleID with the Dev identiﬁer. Similarly,
for Downlink traﬃc, the SCHC C/D or SCHC F/R on the Network Infrastructure side ﬁrst needs to
identify the destination Dev before looking for the appropriate Rule (and associated RuleID) in
the Context of that Dev.

 reuse the same RuleID for diﬀerent Rules. On

Inside their scopes, Rules for compression/decompression and Rules for fragmentation/
reassembly share the same RuleID space.

The size of the RuleIDs is not speciﬁed in this document, as it is implementation-speciﬁc and can
vary according to the LPWAN technology and the number of Rules, among other things. It is
deﬁned in Proﬁles.

The RuleIDs are used:

•

For SCHC C/D, to identify the Rule that is used to compress a packet header.

◦

At least one RuleID
not possible (i.e., no matching compression Rule was found).

MUST

 be allocated to tagging packets for which SCHC compression was

•

In SCHC F/R, to identify the speciﬁc mode and settings of fragmentation/reassembly for one
direction of data traﬃc (Uplink or Downlink).

◦

When SCHC F/R is used for both communication directions, at least two RuleID values are
needed for fragmentation/reassembly: one per direction of data traﬃc. This is because
fragmentation/reassembly may entail control messages ﬂowing in the reverse direction
compared to data traﬃc.

7.  Compression/Decompression

Compression with SCHC is based on using a set of Rules, which constitutes the Context of SCHC C/
D, to compress or decompress headers. SCHC avoids Context synchronization traﬃc, which
consumes considerable bandwidth in other header compression mechanisms such as RObust
Header Compression (RoHC)
LPWANs, static Contexts can be stored beforehand. The Contexts
and they can be learned by a provisioning protocol, by out-of-band means, or by pre-
provisioning. The way the Contexts are provisioned is out of the scope of this document.

. Since the content of packets is highly predictable in

 be stored at both ends,

[RFC5795]

MUST

7.1.  SCHC C/D Rules

The main idea of the SCHC compression scheme is to transmit the RuleID to the other end instead
of sending known ﬁeld values. This RuleID identiﬁes a Rule that matches the original packet
values. Hence, when a value is known by both ends, it is only necessary to send the

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

corresponding RuleID over the LPWAN. The manner by which Rules are generated is out of the
scope of this document. The Rules
scope of this document.

 be changed at run-time, but the mechanism is out of

MAY

The SCHC C/D Context is a set of Rules. See Figure 6 for a high-level, abstract representation of the
Context. The formal speciﬁcation of the representation of the Rules is outside the scope of this
document.

Each Rule itself contains a list of Field Descriptors composed of a Field Identiﬁer (FID), a Field
Length (FL), a Field Position (FP), a Direction Indicator (DI), a Target Value (TV), a Matching
Operator (MO), and a Compression/Decompression Action (CDA).

  /-----------------------------------------------------------------\
  |                         Rule N                                  |
 /-----------------------------------------------------------------\|
 |                       Rule i                                    ||
/-----------------------------------------------------------------\||
|  (FID)            Rule 1                                        |||
|+-------+--+--+--+------------+-----------------+---------------+|||
||Field 1|FL|FP|DI|Target Value|Matching Operator|Comp/Decomp Act||||
|+-------+--+--+--+------------+-----------------+---------------+|||
||Field 2|FL|FP|DI|Target Value|Matching Operator|Comp/Decomp Act||||
|+-------+--+--+--+------------+-----------------+---------------+|||
||...    |..|..|..|   ...      | ...             | ...           ||||
|+-------+--+--+--+------------+-----------------+---------------+||/
||Field N|FL|FP|DI|Target Value|Matching Operator|Comp/Decomp Act|||
|+-------+--+--+--+------------+-----------------+---------------+|/
|                                                                 |
\-----------------------------------------------------------------/

Figure 6: A SCHC C/D Context

A Rule does not describe how the compressor parses a packet header to ﬁnd and identify each
ﬁeld (e.g., the IPv6 Source Address, the UDP Destination Port, or a CoAP URI path option). It is
assumed that there is a protocol parser alongside SCHC that is able to identify all the ﬁelds
encountered in the headers to be compressed, and to label them with a Field ID. Rules only
describe the compression/decompression behavior for each header ﬁeld, after it has been
identiﬁed.

In a Rule, the Field Descriptors are listed in the order in which the ﬁelds appear in the packet
header. The Field Descriptors describe the header ﬁelds with the following entries:

•

Field Identiﬁer (FID) designates a protocol and ﬁeld (e.g., UDP Destination Port),
unambiguously among all protocols that a SCHC compressor processes. In the presence of
protocol nesting, the Field ID also identiﬁes the nesting.

•

Field Length (FL) represents the length of the original ﬁeld. It can be either a ﬁxed value (in
bits) if the length is known when the Rule is created or a type if the length is variable. The
length of a header ﬁeld is deﬁned by its own protocol speciﬁcation (e.g., IPv6 or UDP). If the

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

length is variable, the type deﬁnes the process to compute the length and its unit (bits,
bytes...).

•

Field Position (FP): most often, a ﬁeld only occurs once in a packet header. However, some
ﬁelds may occur multiple times. An example is the uri-path of CoAP. FP indicates which
occurrence this Field Descriptor applies to. The default value is 1. The value 1 designates the
ﬁrst occurrence. The value 0 is special. It means "don't care", see Section 7.2.

•

A Direction Indicator (DI) indicates the packet direction(s) this Field Descriptor applies to. It
allows for asymmetric processing, using the same Rule. Three values are possible:

Up:

this Field Descriptor is only applicable to packets traveling Uplink.

Dw:

this Field Descriptor is only applicable to packets traveling Downlink.

Bi:

this Field Descriptor is applicable to packets traveling Uplink or Downlink.

•

Target Value (TV) is the value used to match against the packet header ﬁeld. The Target Value
can be a scalar value of any type (integer, strings, etc.) or a more complex structure (array,
list, etc.). The types and representations are out of scope for this document.

•

Matching Operator (MO) is the operator used to match the ﬁeld value and the Target Value.
The Matching Operator may require some parameters. The set of MOs deﬁned in this
document can be found in Section 7.3.

•

Compression/Decompression Action (CDA) describes the pair of actions that are performed at
the compressor to compress a header ﬁeld and at the decompressor to recover the original
value of the header ﬁeld. Some CDAs might use parameter values for their operation. The set
of CDAs deﬁned in this document can be found in Section 7.4.

7.2.  Packet Processing

The compression/decompression process follows several phases:

Compression Rule selection:

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

the general idea is to browse the Rule set to ﬁnd a Rule that has a matching Field
Descriptor (given the DI and FP) for all and only those header ﬁelds that appear in the
packet being compressed. The detailed algorithm is the following:

•

The ﬁrst step is to check the FIDs. If any header ﬁeld of the packet being examined
cannot be matched with a Field Descriptor with the correct FID, the Rule
 be
disregarded. If any Field Descriptor in the Rule has a FID that cannot be matched to
one of the header ﬁelds of the packet being examined, the Rule

 be disregarded.

MUST

MUST

•

The next step is to match the Field Descriptors by their direction, using the DI. If any
ﬁeld of the packet header cannot be matched with a Field Descriptor with the correct
FID and DI, the Rule

 be disregarded.

MUST

•

Then, the Field Descriptors are further selected according to FP. If any ﬁeld of the
packet header cannot be matched with a Field Descriptor with the correct FID, DI and
FP, the Rule

 be disregarded.

MUST

The value 0 for FP means "don't care", i.e., the comparison of this Field Descriptor's FP
with the position of the ﬁeld of the packet header being compressed returns True,
whatever that position. FP=0 can be useful to build compression Rules for protocol
headers in which some ﬁelds order is irrelevant. An example could be uri-queries in
CoAP. Care needs to be exercised when writing Rules containing FP=0 values. Indeed, it
may result in decompressed packets having ﬁelds ordered diﬀerently compared to the
original packet.

•

Once each header ﬁeld has been associated with a Field Descriptor with matching FID,
DI, and FP, each packet ﬁeld's value is then compared to the corresponding TV stored
in the Rule for that speciﬁc ﬁeld, using the MO. If every ﬁeld in the packet header
satisﬁes the corresponding MOs of a Rule (i.e., all MO results are True), that Rule is
valid for use to compress the header. Otherwise, the Rule

 be disregarded.

MUST

This speciﬁcation does not prevent multiple Rules from matching the above steps and,
therefore, being valid for use. Which Rule to use among multiple valid Rules is left to
the implementation. As long as the same Rule set is installed at both ends, this degree
of freedom does not constitute an interoperability issue.

•

If no valid compression Rule is found, then the packet
using the RuleID dedicated to this purpose (see Section 6). The entire packet header is
the Compression Residue (see Figure 4). Sending an uncompressed header is likely to
require SCHC F/R.

 be sent uncompressed

MUST

Compression:

if a valid Rule is found, each ﬁeld of the header is compressed according to the

CDAs of the Rule. The ﬁelds are compressed in the order that the Field Descriptors appear
in the Rule. The compression of each ﬁeld results in a residue, which may be empty. The
Compression Residue for the packet header is the concatenation of the non-empty residues
for each ﬁeld of the header, in the order the Field Descriptors appear in the Rule. The
order in which the Field Descriptors appear in the Rule is therefore semantically
important.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

    |------------------- Compression Residue -------------------|
    +-----------------+-----------------+-----+-----------------+
    | field 1 residue | field 2 residue | ... | field N residue |
    +-----------------+-----------------+-----+-----------------+

Figure 7: Compression Residue Structure

Sending:

The RuleID is sent to the other end jointly with the Compression Residue (which could

be empty) or the uncompressed header, and directly followed by the payload (see Figure
4). The way the RuleID is sent will be speciﬁed in the Proﬁle and is out of the scope of the
present document. For example, it could be included in an L2 header or sent as part of the
L2 payload.

Decompression:

when decompressing, on the Network Infrastructure side, the SCHC C/D needs

to ﬁnd the correct Rule based on the L2 address of the Dev.  On the Dev side, only the
RuleID is needed to identify the correct Rule since the Dev typically only holds Rules that
apply to itself.

This Rule describes the compressed header format. From this, the decompressor
determines the order of the residues, the ﬁxed-size or variable-size nature of each residue
(see Section 7.4.2), and the size of the ﬁxed-size residues.

Therefore, from the received compressed header, it can retrieve all the residue values and
associate them to the corresponding header ﬁelds.

For each ﬁeld in the header, the receiver applies the CDA action associated with that ﬁeld
in order to reconstruct the original header ﬁeld value. The CDA application order can be
diﬀerent from the order in which the ﬁelds are listed in the Rule. In particular, Compute-*
MUST

 be applied after the application of the CDAs of all the ﬁelds it computes on.

7.3.  Matching Operators

MOs are functions used at the compression side of SCHC C/D. They are not typed and can be
applied to integer, string or any other data type. The result of the operation can either be True or
False. The following MOs are deﬁned:

equal:

The match result is True if the ﬁeld value in the packet matches the TV.

ignore:

No matching is attempted between the ﬁeld value in the packet and the TV in the Rule.

The result is always True.

MSB(x):

A match is obtained if the most signiﬁcant (leftmost) x bits of the packet header ﬁeld
value are equal to the TV in the Rule. The x parameter of the MSB MO indicates how many
bits are involved in the comparison. If the FL is described as variable, the x parameter
must be a multiple of the FL unit. For example, x must be multiple of 8 if the unit of the
variable length is bytes.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

match-mapping: With match-mapping, TV is a list of values. Each value of the list is identiﬁed
by an index. Compression is achieved by sending the index instead of the original header
ﬁeld value. This operator matches if the header ﬁeld value is equal to one of the values in
the target list.

7.4.  Compression/Decompression Actions (CDA)

The CDA speciﬁes the actions taken during the compression of header ﬁelds and the inverse
action taken by the decompressor to restore the original value. The CDAs deﬁned by this
document are described in detail in Section 7.4.3 to Section 7.4.8. They are summarized in Table
1.

Action

Compression

Decompression

not-sent

elided

use TV stored in Rule

value-sent

send

use received value

mapping-sent

send index

retrieve value from TV list

LSB

send least signiﬁcant bits (LSB)

concatenate TV and received value

compute-*

elided

recompute at decompressor

DevIID

AppIID

elided

elided

build IID from L2 Dev addr

build IID from L2 App addr

Table 1: Compression and Decompression Actions

The ﬁrst column shows the action's name. The second and third columns show the compression
and decompression behaviors for each action.

7.4.1.  Processing Fixed-Length Fields

If the ﬁeld is identiﬁed in the Field Descriptor as being of ﬁxed length, then applying the CDA to
compress this ﬁeld results in a ﬁxed amount of bits. The residue for that ﬁeld is simply the bits
resulting from applying the CDA to the ﬁeld. This value may be empty (e.g., not-sent CDA), in
which case the ﬁeld residue is absent from the Compression Residue.

|- field residue -|
+-----------------+
|      value      |
+-----------------+

Figure 8: Fixed-Size Field Residue Structure

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

7.4.2.  Processing Variable-Length Fields

If the ﬁeld is identiﬁed in the Field Descriptor as being of variable length, then applying the CDA
to compress this ﬁeld may result in a value of ﬁxed size (e.g., not-sent or mapping-sent) or of
variable size (e.g., value-sent or LSB). In the latter case, the residue for that ﬁeld is the bits that
result from applying the CDA to the ﬁeld, preceded with the size of the value. The most
signiﬁcant bit of the size is stored to the left (leftmost bit of the residue ﬁeld).

|--- field residue ---|
+-------+-------------+
|  size |    value    |
+-------+-------------+

Figure 9: Variable-Size Field Residue Structure

The size (using the unit deﬁned in the FL) is encoded on 4, 12, or 28 bits as follows:

•

If the size is between 0 and 14, it is encoded as a 4-bit unsigned integer.

•

Sizes between 15 and 254 are encoded as 0b1111 followed by the 8-bit unsigned integer.

•

Larger sizes are encoded as 0xﬀf followed by the 16-bit unsigned integer.

If the ﬁeld is identiﬁed in the Field Descriptor as being of variable length and this ﬁeld is not
present in the packet header being compressed, size 0

 be sent to denote its absence.

MUST

7.4.3.  Not-Sent CDA

The not-sent action can be used when the ﬁeld value is speciﬁed in a Rule and, therefore, known
by both the Compressor and the Decompressor. This action
 be used with the "equal" MO.
If MO is "ignore", there is a risk of having a decompressed ﬁeld value that is diﬀerent from the
original ﬁeld that was compressed.

SHOULD

The compressor does not send any residue for a ﬁeld on which not-sent compression is applied.

The decompressor restores the ﬁeld value with the TV stored in the matched Rule identiﬁed by
the received RuleID.

7.4.4.  Value-Sent CDA

The value-sent action can be used when the ﬁeld value is not known by both the Compressor and
the Decompressor. The ﬁeld is sent in its entirety, using the same bit order as in the original
packet header.

If this action is performed on a variable-length ﬁeld, the size of the residue value (using the units
deﬁned in FL)

 be sent as described in Section 7.4.2.

MUST

This action is generally used with the "ignore" MO.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

7.4.5.  Mapping-Sent CDA

The mapping-sent action is used to send an index (the index into the TV list of values) instead of
the original value. This action is used together with the "match-mapping" MO.

On the compressor side, the match-mapping MO searches the TV for a match with the header
ﬁeld value. The mapping-sent CDA then sends the corresponding index as the ﬁeld residue. The
most signiﬁcant bit of the index is stored to the left (leftmost bit of the residue ﬁeld).

On the decompressor side, the CDA uses the received index to restore the ﬁeld value by looking
up the list in the TV.

The number of bits sent is the minimal size for coding all the possible indices.

The ﬁrst element in the list
list

MUST

 have indices incremented by 1.

MUST

 be represented by index value 0, and successive elements in the

7.4.6.  LSB CDA

The LSB action is used together with the "MSB(x)" MO to avoid sending the most signiﬁcant part
of the packet ﬁeld if that part is already known by the receiving end.

The compressor sends the LSBs as the ﬁeld residue value. The number of bits sent is the original
header ﬁeld length minus the length speciﬁed in the MSB(x) MO. The bits appear in the residue
in the same bit order as in the original packet header.

The decompressor concatenates the x most signiﬁcant bits of the TV and the received residue
value.

If this action is performed on a variable-length ﬁeld, the size of the residue value (using the units
deﬁned in FL)

 be sent as described in Section 7.4.2.

MUST

7.4.7.  DevIID, AppIID CDA

These actions are used to process the DevIID and AppIID of the IPv6 addresses, respectively.
AppIID CDA is less common since most current LPWAN technologies frames contain a single L2
address, which is the Dev's address.

The DevIID value
other stable identiﬁer. The computation is speciﬁc to each Proﬁle and
size.

MAY

 be computed from the Dev ID present in the L2 header, or from some

MAY

 depend on the Dev ID

In the Downlink direction, at the compressor, the DevIID CDA may be used to generate the L2
addresses on the LPWAN, based on the packet's Destination Address.

7.4.8.  Compute-*

Some ﬁelds can be elided at the compressor and recomputed locally at the decompressor.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Because the ﬁeld is uniquely identiﬁed by its FID (e.g., IPv6 length), the relevant protocol
speciﬁcation unambiguously deﬁnes the algorithm for such computation.

An example of a ﬁeld that knows how to recompute itself is IPv6 length.

8.  Fragmentation/Reassembly

8.1.  Overview

In LPWAN technologies, the L2 MTU typically ranges from tens to hundreds of bytes. Some of
these technologies do not have an internal fragmentation/reassembly mechanism.

The optional SCHC F/R functionality enables such LPWAN technologies to comply with the IPv6
MTU requirement of 1280 bytes
 to implement per this speciﬁcation,
but Proﬁles may specify that it is

[RFC8200]
.
REQUIRED

OPTIONAL

. It is

This speciﬁcation includes several SCHC F/R modes, which allow for a range of reliability options
such as optional SCHC Fragment retransmission. More modes may be deﬁned in the future.

The same SCHC F/R mode
document does not specify which mode(s) must be implemented and used over a speciﬁc LPWAN
technology. That information will be given in Proﬁles.

 be used for all SCHC Fragments of a given SCHC Packet. This

MUST

SCHC allows transmitting non-fragmented SCHC Packet concurrently with fragmented SCHC
Packets. In addition, SCHC F/R provides protocol elements that allow transmitting several
fragmented SCHC Packets concurrently, i.e., interleaving the transmission of fragments from
diﬀerent fragmented SCHC Packets. A Proﬁle

 restrict the latter behavior.

MAY

The L2 Word size (see Section 4) determines the encoding of some messages. SCHC F/R usually
generates SCHC Fragments and SCHC ACKs that are multiples of L2 Words.

8.2.  SCHC F/R Protocol Elements

This subsection describes the diﬀerent elements that are used to enable the SCHC F/R
functionality deﬁned in this document. These elements include the SCHC F/R messages, tiles,
windows, bitmaps, counters, timers, and header ﬁelds.

The elements are described here in a generic manner. Their application to each SCHC F/R mode
is found in Section 8.4.

8.2.1.  Messages

SCHC F/R deﬁnes the following messages:

SCHC Fragment:

A message that carries part of a SCHC Packet from the sender to the receiver.

SCHC ACK:

An acknowledgement for fragmentation, by the receiver to the sender. This message

is used to indicate whether or not the reception of pieces of, or the whole of, the
fragmented SCHC Packet was successful.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

SCHC ACK REQ:

A request by the sender for a SCHC ACK from the receiver.

SCHC Sender-Abort:

A message by the sender telling the receiver that it has aborted the

transmission of a fragmented SCHC Packet.

SCHC Receiver-Abort:

A message by the receiver to tell the sender to abort the transmission of a

fragmented SCHC Packet.

The format of these messages is provided in Section 8.3.

8.2.2.  Tiles, Windows, Bitmaps, Timers, Counters

8.2.2.1.  Tiles

The SCHC Packet is fragmented into pieces, hereafter called "tiles". The tiles
and pairwise disjoint. Their union
MUST

 be equal to the SCHC Packet.

MUST

 be non-empty

See Figure 10 for an example.

                                SCHC Packet
        +----+--+-----+---+----+-+---+-----+...-----+----+---+------+
Tiles   |    |  |     |   |    | |   |     |        |    |   |      |
        +----+--+-----+---+----+-+---+-----+...-----+----+---+------+

Figure 10: SCHC Packet Fragmented in Tiles

Modes (see Section 8.4)

MAY

 place additional constraints on tile sizes.

Each SCHC Fragment message carries at least one tile in its Payload, if the Payload ﬁeld is
present.

8.2.2.2.  Windows

Some SCHC F/R modes may handle successive tiles in groups, called windows.

If windows are used:

•

all the windows of a SCHC Packet, except the last one,
tiles. This number is WINDOW_SIZE.

•

WINDOW_SIZE

MUST

 be speciﬁed in a Proﬁle.

•

the windows are numbered.

MUST

 contain the same number of

•

their numbers
end.

MUST

 increment by 1 from 0 upward, from the start of the SCHC Packet to its

•

the last window

MUST

 contain WINDOW_SIZE tiles or less.

•

tiles are numbered within each window.

•

the tile indices
start of the SCHC Packet toward its end.

MUST

 decrement by 1 from WINDOW_SIZE - 1 downward, looking from the

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

•

therefore, each tile of a SCHC Packet is uniquely identiﬁed by a window number and a tile
index within this window.

See Figure 11 for an example.

        +---------------------------------------------...-----------+
        |                       SCHC Packet                         |
        +---------------------------------------------...-----------+

Tile#   | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 4 |     | 0 | 4 |3|
Window# |-------- 0 --------|-------- 1 --------|- 2  ... 27 -|- 28-|

Figure 11: SCHC Packet Fragmented in Tiles Grouped in 29 Windows, with WINDOW_SIZE = 5

Appendix E discusses the beneﬁts of selecting one among multiple window sizes depending on
the size of the SCHC Packet to be fragmented.

When windows are used:

•

Bitmaps (see Section 8.2.2.3)
message.

MAY

 be sent back by the receiver to the sender in a SCHC ACK

•

A Bitmap corresponds to exactly one Window.

8.2.2.3.  Bitmaps

Each bit in the Bitmap for a window corresponds to a tile in the window. Therefore, each Bitmap
has WINDOW_SIZE bits. The bit at the leftmost position corresponds to the tile numbered
WINDOW_SIZE - 1. Consecutive bits, going right, correspond to sequentially decreasing tile
indices. In Bitmaps for windows that are not the last one of a SCHC Packet, the bit at the
rightmost position corresponds to the tile numbered 0. In the Bitmap for the last window, the bit
at the rightmost position corresponds either to the tile numbered 0 or to a tile that is sent/
received as "the last one of the SCHC Packet" without explicitly stating its number (see Section
8.3.1.2).

At the receiver:

•

a bit set to 1 in the Bitmap indicates that a tile associated with that bit position has been
correctly received for that window.

•

a bit set to 0 in the Bitmap indicates that there has been no tile correctly received, associated
with that bit position, for that window. Possible reasons include that the tile was not sent at
all, not received, or received with errors.

8.2.2.4.  Timers and Counters

Some SCHC F/R modes can use the following timers and counters:

Inactivity Timer:
message.

a SCHC Fragment receiver uses this timer to abort waiting for a SCHC F/R

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Retransmission Timer:

a SCHC Fragment sender uses this timer to abort waiting for an

expected SCHC ACK.

Attempts:

this counter counts the requests for SCHC ACKs, up to MAX_ACK_REQUESTS.

8.2.3.  Integrity Checking

The integrity of the fragmentation-reassembly process of a SCHC Packet
 specify how integrity checking is performed.
receive end. A Proﬁle

MUST

MUST

 be checked at the

RECOMMENDED

It is
Sequence (RCS) based on the SCHC Packet at the sender side and transmitting it to the receiver
for comparison with the RCS locally computed after reassembly.

 that integrity checking be performed by computing a Reassembly Check

The RCS supports UDP checksum elision by SCHC C/D (see Section 10.11).

The CRC32 polynomial 0xEDB88320 (i.e., the reversed polynomial representation, which is used
in the Ethernet standard
the RCS.

 as the default algorithm for computing

RECOMMENDED

[ETHERNET]

) is

MUST

 be computed on the full SCHC Packet concatenated with the padding bits, if any, of

The RCS
the SCHC Fragment carrying the last tile. The rationale is that the SCHC reassembler has no way
of knowing the boundary between the last tile and the padding bits. Indeed, this requires
decompressing the SCHC Packet, which is out of the scope of the SCHC reassembler.

The concatenation of the complete SCHC Packet and any padding bits, if present, of the last SCHC
Fragment does not generally constitute an integer number of bytes. CRC libraries are usually byte
oriented. It is
fragment padding bits be zero-extended to the next byte boundary and that the RCS be computed
on that byte array.

 that the concatenation of the complete SCHC Packet and any last

RECOMMENDED

8.2.4.  Header Fields

The SCHC F/R messages contain the following ﬁelds (see the formats in Section 8.3):

RuleID:

this ﬁeld is present in all the SCHC F/R messages. The Rule identiﬁes:

•

that a SCHC F/R message is being carried, as opposed to an unfragmented SCHC Packet,

•

which SCHC F/R mode is used,

•

in case this mode uses windows, what the value of WINDOW_SIZE is, and

•

what other optional ﬁelds are present and what the ﬁeld sizes are.

The Rule tells apart a non-fragmented SCHC Packet from SCHC Fragments. It will also tell
apart SCHC Fragments of fragmented SCHC Packets that use diﬀerent SCHC F/R modes or
diﬀerent parameters. Therefore, interleaved transmission of these is possible.

All SCHC F/R messages pertaining to the same SCHC Packet

MUST

 bear the same RuleID.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Datagram Tag (DTag):

This ﬁeld allows diﬀerentiating SCHC F/R messages belonging to diﬀerent

SCHC Packets that may be using the same RuleID simultaneously. Hence, it allows
interleaving fragments of a new SCHC Packet with fragments of a previous SCHC Packet
under the same RuleID.

The size of the DTag ﬁeld (called "T", in bits) is deﬁned by each Proﬁle for each RuleID.
When T is 0, the DTag ﬁeld does not appear in the SCHC F/R messages and the DTag value is
deﬁned as 0.

When T is 0, there can be no more than one fragmented SCHC Packet in transit for each
fragmentation RuleID.

If T is not 0, DTag:

• MUST

 be set to the same value for all the SCHC F/R messages related to the same

fragmented SCHC Packet, and

• MUST

 be set to diﬀerent values for SCHC F/R messages related to diﬀerent SCHC

Packets that are being fragmented under the same RuleID and whose transmission
may overlap.

W:

The W ﬁeld is optional. It is only present if windows are used. Its presence and size (called
"M", in bits) is deﬁned by each SCHC F/R mode and each Proﬁle for each RuleID.

This ﬁeld carries information pertaining to the window a SCHC F/R message relates to. If
present, W
 carry the same value for all the SCHC F/R messages related to the same
window. Depending on the mode and Proﬁle, W may carry the full window number, or
just the LSB or any other partial representation of the window number.

MUST

Fragment Compressed Number (FCN):

The FCN ﬁeld is present in the SCHC Fragment Header.

Its size (called "N", in bits) is deﬁned by each Proﬁle for each RuleID.

This ﬁeld conveys information about the progress in the sequence of tiles being
transmitted by SCHC Fragment messages. For example, it can contain a partial, eﬃcient
representation of a larger-sized tile index. The description of the exact use of the FCN ﬁeld
is left to each SCHC F/R mode. However, two values are reserved for special purposes. They
help control the SCHC F/R process:

•

The FCN value with all the bits equal to 1 (called "All-1") signals that the very last tile of
a SCHC Packet has been transmitted. By extension, if windows are used, the last
window of a packet is called the "All-1" window.

•

If windows are used, the FCN value with all the bits equal to 0 (called "All-0") signals
the last tile of a window that is not the last one of the SCHC packet. By extension, such
a window is called an "All-0 window".

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Reassembly Check Sequence (RCS):

This ﬁeld only appears in the All-1 SCHC Fragments. Its size

(called "U", in bits) is deﬁned by each Proﬁle for each RuleID.

See Section 8.2.3 for the RCS default size, default polynomial and details on RCS
computation.

C (integrity Check):

C is a 1-bit ﬁeld. This ﬁeld is used in the SCHC ACK message to report on the

reassembled SCHC Packet integrity check (see Section 8.2.3).

A value of 1 tells that the integrity check was performed and is successful. A value of 0 tells
that the integrity check was not performed or that it was a failure.

Compressed Bitmap:

The Compressed Bitmap is used together with windows and Bitmaps (see

Section 8.2.2.3). Its presence and size is deﬁned for each SCHC F/R mode for each RuleID.

This ﬁeld appears in the SCHC ACK message to report on the receiver Bitmap (see Section
8.3.2.1).

8.3.  SCHC F/R Message Formats

This section deﬁnes the SCHC Fragment formats, the SCHC ACK format, the SCHC ACK REQ
format and the SCHC Abort formats.

8.3.1.  SCHC Fragment Format

A SCHC Fragment conforms to the general format shown in Figure 12. It comprises a SCHC
Fragment Header and a SCHC Fragment Payload. The SCHC Fragment Payload carries one or
several tile(s).

+-----------------+-----------------------+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| Fragment Header | Fragment Payload      | padding (as needed)
+-----------------+-----------------------+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Figure 12: SCHC Fragment General Format

8.3.1.1.  Regular SCHC Fragment

The Regular SCHC Fragment format is shown in Figure 13. Regular SCHC Fragments are generally
used to carry tiles that are not the last one of a SCHC Packet. The DTag ﬁeld and the W ﬁeld are
OPTIONAL

, their presence is speciﬁed by each mode and Proﬁle.

|-- SCHC Fragment Header ----|
         |-- T --|-M-|-- N --|
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+- ... -+--------...-------+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| RuleID | DTag  | W |  FCN  | Fragment Payload | padding (as needed)
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+- ... -+--------...-------+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Figure 13: Detailed Header Format for Regular SCHC Fragments

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

The FCN ﬁeld

MUST NOT

 contain all bits set to 1.

MUST

 ensure that a SCHC Fragment with FCN equal to 0 (called an "All-0 SCHC

Proﬁles
Fragment") is distinguishable by size, even in the presence of padding, from a SCHC ACK REQ
message (see Section 8.3.3) with the same RuleID value and with the same T, M, and N values.
This condition is met if the Payload is at least the size of an L2 Word. This condition is also met if
the SCHC Fragment Header is a multiple of L2 Words.

8.3.1.2.  All-1 SCHC Fragment

The All-1 SCHC Fragment format is shown in Figure 14. The sender uses the All-1 SCHC Fragment
format for the message that completes the emission of a fragmented SCHC Packet. The DTag ﬁeld,
, their presence is speciﬁed by each mode
the W ﬁeld, the RCS ﬁeld and the Payload are
and Proﬁle. At least one of RCS ﬁeld or Fragment Payload
ones.

 be present. The FCN ﬁeld is all

OPTIONAL

MUST

|------- SCHC Fragment Header -------|
         |-- T --|-M-|-- N --|-- U --|
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+- ... -+- ... -+-----...-----+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| RuleID | DTag  | W | 11..1 |  RCS  | FragPayload | pad. (as needed)
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+- ... -+- ... -+-----...-----+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                       (FCN)

Figure 14: Detailed Header Format for the All-1 SCHC Fragment

MUST

Proﬁles
 ensure that an All-1 SCHC Fragment message is distinguishable by size, even in the
presence of padding, from a SCHC Sender-Abort message (see Section 8.3.4) with the same RuleID
value and with the same T, M, and N values. This condition is met if the RCS is present and is at
least the size of an L2 Word or if the Payload is present and is at least the size an L2 Word. This
condition is also met if the SCHC Sender-Abort Header is a multiple of L2 Words.

8.3.2.  SCHC ACK Format

The SCHC ACK message is shown in Figure 15. The DTag ﬁeld and the W ﬁeld are
presence is speciﬁed by each mode and Proﬁle. The Compressed Bitmap ﬁeld
 be present in other modes.
SCHC F/R modes that use windows and

MUST NOT

MUST

OPTIONAL

, their
 be present in

|--- SCHC ACK Header ----|
         |-- T --|-M-| 1 |
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+---+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| RuleID |  DTag | W |C=1| padding as needed                (success)
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+---+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

+-- ... -+- ... -+---+---+------ ... ------+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| RuleID |  DTag | W |C=0|Compressed Bitmap| pad. as needed (failure)
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+---+------ ... ------+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Figure 15: Format of the SCHC ACK Message

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

The SCHC ACK Header contains a C bit (see Section 8.2.4).

If the C bit is set to 1 (integrity check successful), no Bitmap is carried.

If the C bit is set to 0 (integrity check not performed or failed) and if windows are used, a
Compressed Bitmap for the window referred to by the W ﬁeld is transmitted as speciﬁed in
Section 8.3.2.1.

8.3.2.1.  Bitmap Compression

For transmission, the Compressed Bitmap in the SCHC ACK message is deﬁned by the following
algorithm (see Figure 16 for a follow-along example):

•

Build a temporary SCHC ACK message that contains the Header followed by the original
Bitmap (see Section 8.2.2.3 for a description of Bitmaps).

•

Position scissors at the end of the Bitmap, after its last bit.

•

While the bit on the left of the scissors is 1 and belongs to the Bitmap, keep moving left, then
stop.

•

Then, while the scissors are not on an L2 Word boundary of the SCHC ACK message and
there is a Bitmap bit on the right of the scissors, keep moving right, then stop.

•

At this point, cut and drop oﬀ any bits to the right of the scissors.

When one or more bits have eﬀectively been dropped oﬀ as a result of the above algorithm, the
SCHC ACK message is a multiple of L2 Words; no padding bits will be appended.

Because the SCHC Fragment sender knows the size of the original Bitmap, it can reconstruct the
original Bitmap from the Compressed Bitmap received in the SCHC ACK message.

Figure 16 shows an example where L2 Words are actually bytes and where the original Bitmap
contains 17 bits, the last 15 of which are all set to 1.

|--- SCHC ACK Header ----|--------      Bitmap     --------|
         |-- T --|-M-| 1 |
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+---+---------------------------------+
| RuleID |  DTag | W |C=0|1 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1|
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+---+---------------------------------+
       next L2 Word boundary ->|

Figure 16: SCHC ACK Header Plus Uncompressed Bitmap

Figure 17 shows that the last 14 bits are not sent.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

|--- SCHC ACK Header ----|CpBmp|
         |-- T --|-M-| 1 |
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+---+-----+
| RuleID |  DTag | W |C=0|1 0 1|
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+---+-----+
       next L2 Word boundary ->|

Figure 17: Resulting SCHC ACK Message with Compressed Bitmap

Figure 18 shows an example of a SCHC ACK with tile indices ranging from 6 down to 0, where the
Bitmap indicates that the second and the fourth tile of the window have not been correctly
received.

|--- SCHC ACK Header ----|--- Bitmap --|
         |-- T --|-M-| 1 |6 5 4 3 2 1 0| (tile #)
+--------+-------+---+---+-------------+
| RuleID |  DTag | W |C=0|1 0 1 0 1 1 1|     uncompressed Bitmap
+--------+-------+---+---+-------------+
   next L2 Word boundary ->|<-- L2 Word --->|

+--------+-------+---+---+-------------+~~~~+
| RuleID |  DTag | W |C=0|1 0 1 0 1 1 1|pad.| transmitted SCHC ACK
+--------+-------+---+---+-------------+~~~~+
   next L2 Word boundary ->|<-- L2 Word --->|

Figure 18: Example of a SCHC ACK Message, Missing Tiles

Figure 19 shows an example of a SCHC ACK with tile indices ranging from 6 down to 0, where
integrity check has not been performed or has failed and the Bitmap indicates that there is no
missing tile in that window.

|--- SCHC ACK Header ----|--- Bitmap --|
         |-- T --|-M-| 1 |6 5 4 3 2 1 0| (tile #)
+--------+-------+---+---+-------------+
| RuleID |  DTag | W |C=0|1 1 1 1 1 1 1|  with uncompressed Bitmap
+--------+-------+---+---+-------------+
   next L2 Word boundary ->|

+-- ... -+- ... -+---+---+-+
| RuleID |  DTag | W |C=0|1|                  transmitted SCHC ACK
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+---+-+
   next L2 Word boundary ->|

Figure 19: Example of a SCHC ACK Message, No Missing Tile

8.3.3.  SCHC ACK REQ Format

The SCHC ACK REQ is used by a sender to request a SCHC ACK from the receiver. Its format is
shown in Figure 20. The DTag ﬁeld and the W ﬁeld are
each mode and Proﬁle. The FCN ﬁeld is all zero.

, their presence is speciﬁed by

OPTIONAL

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

|--- SCHC ACK REQ Header ----|
         |-- T --|-M-|-- N --|
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+- ... -+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| RuleID | DTag  | W |  0..0 | padding (as needed)      (no payload)
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+- ... -+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Figure 20: SCHC ACK REQ Format

8.3.4.  SCHC Sender-Abort Format

When a SCHC Fragment sender needs to abort an ongoing fragmented SCHC Packet transmission,
it sends a SCHC Sender-Abort message to the SCHC Fragment receiver.

The SCHC Sender-Abort format is shown in Figure 21. The DTag ﬁeld and the W ﬁeld are
, their presence is speciﬁed by each mode and Proﬁle. The FCN ﬁeld is all ones.
OPTIONAL

|--- Sender-Abort Header ----|
         |-- T --|-M-|-- N --|
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+- ... -+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| RuleID | DTag  | W | 11..1 | padding (as needed)
+-- ... -+- ... -+---+- ... -+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Figure 21: SCHC Sender-Abort Format

If the W ﬁeld is present:

•

the fragment sender

MUST

 set it to all ones. Other values are RESERVED.

•

the fragment receiver
message
MUST

MUST
 be ignored.

 check its value. If the value is diﬀerent from all ones, the

The SCHC Sender-Abort

MUST NOT

 be acknowledged.

8.3.5.  SCHC Receiver-Abort Format

When a SCHC Fragment receiver needs to abort an ongoing fragmented SCHC Packet
transmission, it transmits a SCHC Receiver-Abort message to the SCHC Fragment sender.

The SCHC Receiver-Abort format is shown in Figure 22. The DTag ﬁeld and the W ﬁeld are
OPTIONAL

, their presence is speciﬁed by each mode and Proﬁle.

|-- Receiver-Abort Header ---|
           |--- T ---|-M-| 1 |
+--- ... --+-- ... --+---+---+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  RuleID  |   DTag  | W |C=1| 1..1|      1..1     |
+--- ... --+-- ... --+---+---+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
           next L2 Word boundary ->|<-- L2 Word -->|

Figure 22: SCHC Receiver-Abort Format

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

If the W ﬁeld is present:

•

the fragment receiver

MUST

 set it to all ones. Other values are RESERVED.

•

if the value is diﬀerent from all ones, the fragment sender

MUST

 ignore the message.

The SCHC Receiver-Abort has the same header as a SCHC ACK message. The bits that follow the
SCHC Receiver-Abort Header

 be as follows:

MUST

•

if the Header does not end at an L2 Word boundary, append bits set to 1 as needed to reach
the next L2 Word boundary.

•

append exactly one more L2 Word with bits all set to ones.

Such a bit pattern never occurs in a legitimate SCHC ACK. This is how the fragment sender
recognizes a SCHC Receiver-Abort.

The SCHC Receiver-Abort

MUST NOT

 be acknowledged.

8.4.  SCHC F/R Modes

This speciﬁcation includes several SCHC F/R modes that:

•

allow for a range of reliability options, such as optional SCHC Fragment retransmission.

•

support various LPWAN characteristics, such as links with variable MTU or unidirectional
links.

More modes may be deﬁned in the future.

Appendix B provides examples of fragmentation sessions based on the modes described
hereafter.

Appendix C provides examples of Finite State Machines implementing the SCHC F/R modes
described hereafter.

8.4.1.  No-ACK Mode

The No-ACK mode has been designed under the assumption that data unit out-of-sequence
delivery does not occur between the entity performing fragmentation and the entity performing
reassembly. This mode supports L2 technologies that have a variable MTU.

In No-ACK mode, there is no communication from the fragment receiver to the fragment sender.
The sender transmits all the SCHC Fragments without expecting any acknowledgement.
Therefore, No-ACK does not require bidirectional links: unidirectional links are just ﬁne.

In No-ACK mode, only the All-1 SCHC Fragment is padded as needed. The other SCHC Fragments
are intrinsically aligned to L2 Words.

The tile sizes are not required to be uniform. Windows are not used. The Retransmission Timer is
not used. The Attempts counter is not used.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Each Proﬁle
this mode.

MUST

 specify which RuleID value(s) corresponds to SCHC F/R messages operating in

The W ﬁeld
ACK REQ
sent.

MUST NOT

 be present in the SCHC F/R messages. SCHC ACK

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

 be sent. SCHC Sender-Abort

MAY

 be sent. SCHC Receiver-Abort

 be sent. SCHC
 be
MUST NOT

The value of N (size of the FCN ﬁeld) is

RECOMMENDED

 to be 1.

Each Proﬁle, for each RuleID value,

MUST

 deﬁne:

•

the size of the DTag ﬁeld,

•

the size and algorithm for the RCS ﬁeld, and

•

the expiration time of the Inactivity Timer.

Each Proﬁle, for each RuleID value,

MAY

 deﬁne

•

a value of N diﬀerent from the recommended one, and

•

the meaning of values sent in the FCN ﬁeld, for values diﬀerent from the All-1 value.

For each active pair of RuleID and DTag values, the receiver
If the receiver is under-resourced to do this, it

MUST

 silently drop the related messages.

MUST

 maintain an Inactivity Timer.

8.4.1.1.  Sender Behavior

At the beginning of the fragmentation of a new SCHC Packet, the fragment sender
RuleID and DTag value pair for this SCHC Packet.

MUST

 select a

MUST

MUST

 contain exactly one tile in its Payload. The tile

 be at least the
 transmit the SCHC Fragments messages in the order that

Each SCHC Fragment
size of an L2 Word. The sender
the tiles appear in the SCHC Packet. Except for the last tile of a SCHC Packet, each tile
a size that complements the SCHC Fragment Header so that the SCHC Fragment is a multiple of
L2 Words without the need for padding bits. Except for the last one, the SCHC Fragments
MUST
use the Regular SCHC Fragment format speciﬁed in Section 8.3.1.1. The SCHC Fragment that
carries the last tile

 be an All-1 SCHC Fragment, described in Section 8.3.1.2.

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be of

The sender

MAY

 transmit a SCHC Sender-Abort.

Figure 39 shows an example of a corresponding state machine.

8.4.1.2.  Receiver Behavior

Upon receiving each Regular SCHC Fragment:

•

the receiver

MUST

 reset the Inactivity Timer.

•

the receiver assembles the payloads of the SCHC Fragments.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

On receiving an All-1 SCHC Fragment:

•

the receiver
previously received SCHC Fragment Payloads for this SCHC Packet.

 append the All-1 SCHC Fragment Payload and the padding bits to the

MUST

•

the receiver

MUST

 perform the integrity check.

•

if integrity checking fails, the receiver

MUST

 drop the reassembled SCHC Packet.

•

the reassembly operation concludes.

On expiration of the Inactivity Timer, the receiver
reassembled.

MUST

 drop the SCHC Packet being

On receiving a SCHC Sender-Abort, the receiver

MAY

 drop the SCHC Packet being reassembled.

Figure 40 shows an example of a corresponding state machine.

8.4.2.  ACK-Always Mode

The ACK-Always mode has been designed under the following assumptions:

•

Data unit out-of-sequence delivery does not occur between the entity performing
fragmentation and the entity performing reassembly,

•

The L2 MTU value does not change while the fragments of a SCHC Packet are being
transmitted, and

•

There is a feedback path from the reassembler to the fragmenter. See Appendix F for a
discussion on using ACK-Always mode on quasi-bidirectional links.

In ACK-Always mode, windows are used. An acknowledgement, positive or negative, is
transmitted by the fragment receiver to the fragment sender at the end of the transmission of
each window of SCHC Fragments.

The tiles are not required to be of uniform size. In ACK-Always mode, only the All-1 SCHC
Fragment is padded as needed. The other SCHC Fragments are intrinsically aligned to L2 Words.

Brieﬂy, the algorithm is as follows: after a ﬁrst blind transmission of all the tiles of a window, the
fragment sender iterates retransmitting the tiles that are reported missing until the fragment
receiver reports that all the tiles belonging to the window have been correctly received or until
too many attempts were made. The fragment sender only advances to the next window of tiles
when it has ascertained that all the tiles belonging to the current window have been fully and
correctly received. This results in a per-window lock-step behavior between the sender and the
receiver.

Each Proﬁle
this mode.

MUST

 specify which RuleID value(s) correspond to SCHC F/R messages operating in

The W ﬁeld

MUST

 be present and its size M

MUST

 be 1 bit.

Each Proﬁle, for each RuleID value,

MUST

 deﬁne:

•

the value of N,

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

•

the value of WINDOW_SIZE, which

MUST

 be strictly less than 2^N,

•

the size and algorithm for the RCS ﬁeld,

•

the value of T,

•

the value of MAX_ACK_REQUESTS,

•

the expiration time of the Retransmission Timer, and

•

the expiration time of the Inactivity Timer.

For each active pair of RuleID and DTag values, the sender

MUST

 maintain:

•

one Attempts counter

•

one Retransmission Timer

For each active pair of RuleID and DTag values, the receiver

MUST

 maintain

•

one Inactivity Timer, and

•

one Attempts counter.

8.4.2.1.  Sender Behavior

At the beginning of the fragmentation of a new SCHC Packet, the fragment sender
RuleID and DTag value pair for this SCHC Packet.

MUST

 select a

Each SCHC Fragment
well as the last tile,

MUST

 be at least the size of an L2 Word.

MUST

 contain exactly one tile in its Payload. All tiles with the index 0, as

In all SCHC Fragment messages, the W ﬁeld
that the sender is currently processing.

MUST

 be ﬁlled with the LSB of the window number

For a SCHC Fragment that carries a tile other than the last one of the SCHC Packet:

•

the Fragment

MUST

 be of the Regular type speciﬁed in Section 8.3.1.1.

•

the FCN ﬁeld

MUST

 contain the tile index.

•

each tile
Fragment is a multiple of L2 Words without the need for padding bits.

 be of a size that complements the SCHC Fragment Header so that the SCHC

MUST

The SCHC Fragment that carries the last tile
Section 8.3.1.2.

MUST

 be an All-1 SCHC Fragment, described in

The fragment sender

MUST

 start by transmitting the window numbered 0.

All message receptions being discussed in the rest of this section are to be understood as
"matching the RuleID and DTag pair being processed", even if not spelled out, for brevity.

The sender starts by a "blind transmission" phase, in which it
composing the window, in decreasing tile index order.

MUST

 transmit all the tiles

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Then, it enters a "retransmission phase" in which it
MUST

 start a Retransmission Timer and it

MUST

 await a SCHC ACK.

MUST

 initialize an Attempts counter to 0, it

•

Then, upon receiving a SCHC ACK:

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

if the SCHC ACK indicates that some tiles are missing at the receiver, then the sender
transmit all the tiles that have been reported missing, it
 increment Attempts, it
reset the Retransmission Timer, and

 await the next SCHC ACK.

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

if the current window is not the last one and the SCHC ACK indicates that all tiles were
correctly received, the sender
MUST
next fragmentation window, and it
above.

 stop the Retransmission Timer, it
MUST

 start a blind transmission phase as described

MUST

 advance to the

if the current window is the last one and the SCHC ACK indicates that more tiles were
received than the sender sent, the fragment sender
MAY

 exit with an error condition.

 send a SCHC Sender-Abort, and it

MUST

if the current window is the last one and the SCHC ACK indicates that all tiles were
correctly received, yet the integrity check was a failure, the fragment sender
MUST
SCHC Sender-Abort, and it

 exit with an error condition.

MAY

 send a

if the current window is the last one and the SCHC ACK indicates that integrity checking
was successful, the sender exits successfully.

•

on Retransmission Timer expiration:

◦

◦

if Attempts is strictly less that MAX_ACK_REQUESTS, the fragment sender
SCHC ACK REQ and

 increment the Attempts counter.

MUST

MUST

 send a

otherwise, the fragment sender
error condition.

MUST

 send a SCHC Sender-Abort, and it

MAY

 exit with an

At any time:

•

on receiving a SCHC Receiver-Abort, the fragment sender

MAY

 exit with an error condition.

•

on receiving a SCHC ACK that bears a W value diﬀerent from the W value that it currently
uses, the fragment sender

 silently discard and ignore that SCHC ACK.

MUST

Figure 41 shows an example of a corresponding state machine.

8.4.2.2.  Receiver Behavior

On receiving a SCHC Fragment with a RuleID and DTag pair not being processed at that time:

•

SHOULD

 check if the DTag value has not recently been used for that RuleID

the receiver
value, thereby ensuring that the received SCHC Fragment is not a remnant of a prior
fragmented SCHC Packet transmission. The initial value of the Inactivity Timer is the
RECOMMENDED
determined to be such a remnant, the receiver

 lifetime for the DTag value at the receiver. If the SCHC Fragment is
 silently ignore it and discard it.
MAY

•

the receiver
value pair.

MUST

 start a process to assemble a new SCHC Packet with that RuleID and DTag

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

 start an Inactivity Timer for that RuleID and DTag pair. It

•

MUST

the receiver
an Attempts counter to 0 for that RuleID and DTag pair. It
to 0. If the receiver is under-resourced to do this, it
Receiver-Abort.

MUST

 initialize
 initialize a window counter
 respond to the sender with a SCHC

MUST

MUST

In the rest of this section, "local W bit" means the least signiﬁcant bit of the window counter of
the receiver.

On reception of any SCHC F/R message for the RuleID and DTag pair being processed, the
receiver

 reset the Inactivity Timer pertaining to that RuleID and DTag pair.

MUST

All message receptions being discussed in the rest of this section are to be understood as
"matching the RuleID and DTag pair being processed", even if not spelled out, for brevity.

The receiver
MUST
"acceptance phase", in which:

 ﬁrst initialize an empty Bitmap for the ﬁrst window then enter an

•

on receiving a SCHC Fragment or a SCHC ACK REQ, either one having the W bit diﬀerent
from the local W bit, the receiver

 silently ignore and discard that message.

MUST

•

on receiving a SCHC ACK REQ with the W bit equal to the local W bit, the receiver
a SCHC ACK for this window.

MUST

 send

•

on receiving a SCHC Fragment with the W bit equal to the local W bit, the receiver
assemble the received tile based on the window counter and on the FCN ﬁeld in the SCHC
Fragment, and it

 update the Bitmap.

MUST

MUST

◦

◦

if the SCHC Fragment received is an All-0 SCHC Fragment, the current window is
determined to be a not-last window, the receiver
and it

 enter the "retransmission phase" for this window.

MUST

MUST

 send a SCHC ACK for this window

if the SCHC Fragment received is an All-1 SCHC Fragment, the current window is
determined to be the last window, the padding bits of the All-1 SCHC Fragment
assembled after the received tile, the receiver
 send a SCHC ACK for this window. Then:
MUST

 be
 perform the integrity check and it

MUST

MUST

▪

▪

If the integrity check indicates that the full SCHC Packet has been correctly reassembled,
the receiver

 enter the "clean-up phase" for this window.

MUST

If the integrity check indicates that the full SCHC Packet has not been correctly
reassembled, the receiver enters the "retransmission phase" for this window.

In the "retransmission phase":

•

if the window is a not-last window:

◦

on receiving a SCHC Fragment that is not All-0 or All-1 and that has a W bit diﬀerent from
the local W bit, the receiver
Bitmap, it
MUST
"acceptance phase" for that new window.

 assemble the tile received and update the Bitmap, and it

 increment its window counter and allocate a fresh

 enter the

MUST

MUST

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

◦

◦

◦

on receiving a SCHC ACK REQ with a W bit diﬀerent from the local W bit, the receiver
MUST
for that new window, and it

 increment its window counter and allocate a fresh Bitmap, it

 enter the "acceptance phase" for that new window.

MUST

MUST

 send a SCHC ACK

on receiving a SCHC All-0 Fragment with a W bit diﬀerent from the local W bit, the
receiver
MUST
assemble the tile received and update the Bitmap, it
window, and it

 increment its window counter and allocate a fresh Bitmap, it

 stay in the "retransmission phase" for that new window.

MUST

MUST

MUST

 send a SCHC ACK for that new

MUST

 increment its window counter and allocate a fresh Bitmap; it

on receiving a SCHC All-1 Fragment with a W bit diﬀerent from the local W bit, the
receiver
MUST
assemble the tile received, including the padding bits; it
perform the integrity check; it
determined to be the last window. Then:

 send a SCHC ACK for the new window, which is

 update the Bitmap and

MUST

MUST

▪

▪

If the integrity check indicates that the full SCHC Packet has been correctly reassembled,
the receiver

 enter the "clean-up phase" for that new window.

MUST

If the integrity check indicates that the full SCHC Packet has not been correctly
reassembled, the receiver enters the "retransmission phase" for that new window.

◦

on receiving a SCHC Fragment with a W bit equal to the local W bit:

▪

▪

if the SCHC Fragment received is an All-1 SCHC Fragment, the receiver
ignore it and discard it.

MUST

 silently

otherwise, the receiver
Bitmap becomes fully populated with 1's or if the SCHC Fragment is an All-0, the receiver
MUST

 assemble the tile received and update the Bitmap. If the

 send a SCHC ACK for this window.

MUST

◦

on receiving a SCHC ACK REQ with the W bit equal to the local W bit, the receiver
send a SCHC ACK for this window.

MUST

•

if the window is the last window:

◦

◦

◦

on receiving a SCHC Fragment or a SCHC ACK REQ, either one having a W bit diﬀerent
from the local W bit, the receiver

 silently ignore and discard that message.

MUST

on receiving a SCHC ACK REQ with the W bit equal to the local W bit, the receiver
send a SCHC ACK for this window.

MUST

on receiving a SCHC Fragment with a W bit equal to the local W bit:

▪

▪

if the SCHC Fragment received is an All-0 SCHC Fragment, the receiver
ignore it and discard it.

MUST

 silently

MUST

otherwise, the receiver
If the SCHC Fragment received is an All-1 SCHC Fragment, the receiver
the padding bits of the All-1 SCHC Fragment after the received tile, it
integrity check and:

 update the Bitmap, and it

MUST

 assemble the tile received.
MUST

 assemble
 perform the

MUST

▪

if the integrity check indicates that the full SCHC Packet has been correctly
reassembled, the receiver

 send a SCHC ACK and it enters the "clean-up phase".

MUST

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

▪

if the integrity check indicates that the full SCHC Packet has not been correctly
reassembled:

▪

if the SCHC Fragment received was an All-1 SCHC Fragment, the receiver
a SCHC ACK for this window.

MUST

 send

In the "clean-up phase":

•

On receiving an All-1 SCHC Fragment or a SCHC ACK REQ, either one having the W bit equal
 send a SCHC ACK.
to the local W bit, the receiver

MUST

•

Any other SCHC Fragment received

MUST

 be silently ignored and discarded.

At any time, on sending a SCHC ACK, the receiver

MUST

 increment the Attempts counter.

At any time, on incrementing its window counter, the receiver

MUST

 reset the Attempts counter.

At any time, on expiration of the Inactivity Timer, on receiving a SCHC Sender-Abort or when
Attempts reaches MAX_ACK_REQUESTS, the receiver
 exit the receive process for that SCHC Packet.
MAY

 send a SCHC Receiver-Abort, and it

MUST

Figure 42 shows an example of a corresponding state machine.

8.4.3.  ACK-on-Error Mode

The ACK-on-Error mode supports L2 technologies that have variable MTU and out-of-order
delivery. It requires an L2 that provides a feedback path from the reassembler to the fragmenter.
See Appendix F for a discussion on using ACK-on-Error mode on quasi-bidirectional links.

In ACK-on-Error mode, windows are used.

All tiles except the last one and the penultimate one
"regular". The size of the last tile
the penultimate tile, a Proﬁle

MUST

MUST

 pick one of the following two options:

MUST

 be of equal size, hereafter called

 be smaller than or equal to the regular tile size. Regarding

•

The penultimate tile size

MUST

 be the regular tile size, or

•

the penultimate tile size
L2 Word.

MUST

 be either the regular tile size or the regular tile size minus one

A SCHC Fragment message carries one or several contiguous tiles, which may span multiple
windows. A SCHC ACK reports on the reception of exactly one window of tiles.

See Figure 23 for an example.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

        +---------------------------------------------...-----------+
        |                       SCHC Packet                         |
        +---------------------------------------------...-----------+

Tile#   | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 4 |     | 0 | 4 |3|
Window# |-------- 0 --------|-------- 1 --------|- 2  ... 27 -|- 28-|

SCHC Fragment msg   |-----------|

Figure 23: SCHC Packet Fragmented in Tiles, ACK-on-Error Mode

The W ﬁeld is wide enough that it unambiguously represents an absolute window number. The
fragment receiver sends SCHC ACKs to the fragment sender about windows for which tiles are
missing. No SCHC ACK is sent by the fragment receiver for windows that it knows have been fully
received.

The fragment sender retransmits SCHC Fragments for tiles that are reported missing. It can
advance to next windows even before it has ascertained that all tiles belonging to previous
windows have been correctly received, and it can still later retransmit SCHC Fragments with tiles
belonging to previous windows. Therefore, the sender and the receiver may operate in a
decoupled fashion. The fragmented SCHC Packet transmission concludes when:

•

integrity checking shows that the fragmented SCHC Packet has been correctly reassembled at
the receive end, and this information has been conveyed back to the sender, or

•

too many retransmission attempts were made, or

•

the receiver determines that the transmission of this fragmented SCHC Packet has been
inactive for too long.

Each Proﬁle
this mode.

MUST

 specify which RuleID value(s) corresponds to SCHC F/R messages operating in

The W ﬁeld

MUST

 be present in the SCHC F/R messages.

Each Proﬁle, for each RuleID value,

MUST

 deﬁne:

•

the tile size (a tile does not need to be multiple of an L2 Word, but it
of an L2 Word),

MUST

 be at least the size

•

the value of M,

•

the value of N,

•

the value of WINDOW_SIZE, which

MUST

 be strictly less than 2^N,

•

the size and algorithm for the RCS ﬁeld,

•

the value of T,

•

the value of MAX_ACK_REQUESTS,

•

the expiration time of the Retransmission Timer,

•

the expiration time of the Inactivity Timer,

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

•

if the last tile is carried in a Regular SCHC Fragment or an All-1 SCHC Fragment (see Section
8.4.3.1), and

•

if the penultimate tile
regular tile size
MUST

MAY
 be at least twice the L2 Word size.

 be one L2 Word smaller than the regular tile size. In this case, the

For each active pair of RuleID and DTag values, the sender

MUST

 maintain:

•

one Attempts counter, and

•

one Retransmission Timer.

For each active pair of RuleID and DTag values, the receiver

MUST

 maintain:

•

one Inactivity Timer, and

•

one Attempts counter.

8.4.3.1.  Sender Behavior

At the beginning of the fragmentation of a new SCHC Packet:

•

the fragment sender
MUST NOT
SCHC Packet cannot be fragmented in (2^M) * WINDOW_SIZE tiles or less.

 be selected if the values of M and WINDOW_SIZE for that Rule are such that the

 select a RuleID and DTag value pair for this SCHC Packet. A Rule

MUST

•

the fragment sender
pair.

MUST

 initialize the Attempts counter to 0 for that RuleID and DTag value

A Regular SCHC Fragment message carries in its payload one or more tiles. If more than one tile
is carried in one Regular SCHC Fragment:

•

the selected tiles

MUST

 be contiguous in the original SCHC Packet, and

•

MUST

they
they appear in the SCHC Packet, from the start of the SCHC Packet toward its end.

 be placed in the SCHC Fragment Payload adjacent to one another, in the order

Tiles that are not the last one
8.3.1.1. The FCN ﬁeld

MUST

MUST

 be sent in Regular SCHC Fragments speciﬁed in Section

 contain the tile index of the ﬁrst tile sent in that SCHC Fragment.

In a Regular SCHC Fragment message, the sender
of the ﬁrst tile sent in that SCHC Fragment.

MUST

 ﬁll the W ﬁeld with the window number

A Proﬁle

MUST

 deﬁne if the last tile of a SCHC Packet is sent:

•

in a Regular SCHC Fragment, alone or as part of a multi-tiles Payload,

•

alone in an All-1 SCHC Fragment, or

•

with any of the above two methods.

In an All-1 SCHC Fragment message, the sender
the last tile of the SCHC Packet.

MUST

 ﬁll the W ﬁeld with the window number of

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

The fragment sender
of the fragmented SCHC Packet.

MUST

 send SCHC Fragments such that, all together, they contain all the tiles

The fragment sender

MUST

 send at least one All-1 SCHC Fragment.

In doing the two items above, the sender
last tile through both a Regular SCHC Fragment and an All-1 SCHC Fragment.

 ascertain that the receiver will not receive the

MUST

The fragment sender

MUST

 listen for SCHC ACK messages after having sent:

•

an All-1 SCHC Fragment, or

•

a SCHC ACK REQ.

A Proﬁle
 specify other times at which the fragment sender
messages. For example, this could be after sending a complete window of tiles.

MUST

MAY

 listen for SCHC ACK

Each time a fragment sender sends an All-1 SCHC Fragment or a SCHC ACK REQ:

•  MUST

it

 increment the Attempts counter, and

•  MUST

it

 reset the Retransmission Timer.

On Retransmission Timer expiration:

•

if the Attempts counter is strictly less than MAX_ACK_REQUESTS, the fragment sender
send either the All-1 SCHC Fragment or a SCHC ACK REQ with the W ﬁeld corresponding to
the last window,

MUST

•

otherwise, the fragment sender
error condition.

MUST

 send a SCHC Sender-Abort, and it

MAY

 exit with an

All message receptions being discussed in the rest of this section are to be understood as
"matching the RuleID and DTag pair being processed", even if not spelled out, for brevity.

On receiving a SCHC ACK:

•

if the W ﬁeld in the SCHC ACK corresponds to the last window of the SCHC Packet:

◦

◦

if the C bit is set, the sender

MAY

 exit successfully.

otherwise:

▪

if the Proﬁle mandates that the last tile be sent in an All-1 SCHC Fragment:

▪

if the SCHC ACK shows no missing tile at the receiver, the sender:

▪ MUST

 send a SCHC Sender-Abort, and

▪ MAY

 exit with an error condition.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

▪

otherwise:

▪

▪

▪

the fragment sender
that are reported missing in the SCHC ACK.

MUST

 send SCHC Fragment messages containing all the tiles

if the last of these SCHC Fragment messages is not an All-1 SCHC Fragment, then the
fragment sender
corresponding to the last window.

 in addition send after it a SCHC ACK REQ with the W ﬁeld

MUST

in doing the two items above, the sender
receive the last tile through both a Regular SCHC Fragment and an All-1 SCHC
Fragment.

 ascertain that the receiver will not

MUST

▪

otherwise:

▪

if the SCHC ACK shows no missing tile at the receiver, the sender
SCHC Fragment

MUST

 send the All-1

▪

otherwise:

▪

▪

the fragment sender
that are reported missing in the SCHC ACK.

MUST

 send SCHC Fragment messages containing all the tiles

the fragment sender
REQ with the W ﬁeld corresponding to the last window.

MUST

 then send either the All-1 SCHC Fragment or a SCHC ACK

•

otherwise, the fragment sender:

◦ MUST

 send SCHC Fragment messages containing the tiles that are reported missing in the

SCHC ACK.

◦

then, it

MAY

 send a SCHC ACK REQ with the W ﬁeld corresponding to the last window.

See Figure 43 for one among several possible examples of a Finite State Machine implementing a
sender behavior obeying this speciﬁcation.

8.4.3.2.  Receiver Behavior

On receiving a SCHC Fragment with a RuleID and DTag pair not being processed at that time:

•

SHOULD

 check if the DTag value has not recently been used for that RuleID

the receiver
value, thereby ensuring that the received SCHC Fragment is not a remnant of a prior
fragmented SCHC Packet transmission. The initial value of the Inactivity Timer is the
RECOMMENDED
determined to be such a remnant, the receiver

 lifetime for the DTag value at the receiver. If the SCHC Fragment is
 silently ignore it and discard it.
MAY

 start a process to assemble a new SCHC Packet with that RuleID and DTag
 start an Inactivity Timer for that RuleID and DTag value pair.

MUST

 initialize an Attempts counter to 0 for that RuleID and DTag value pair. If the

•

MUST

the receiver
value pair. The receiver
It
receiver is under-resourced to do this, it
Abort.

MUST

MUST

 respond to the sender with a SCHC Receiver-

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

On reception of any SCHC F/R message for the RuleID and DTag pair being processed, the
receiver

 reset the Inactivity Timer pertaining to that RuleID and DTag pair.

MUST

All message receptions being discussed in the rest of this section are to be understood as
"matching the RuleID and DTag pair being processed", even if not spelled out, for brevity.

On receiving a SCHC Fragment message, the receiver determines what tiles were received, based
on the payload length and on the W and FCN ﬁelds of the SCHC Fragment.

•

if the FCN is All-1, if a Payload is present, the full SCHC Fragment Payload
assembled including the padding bits. This is because the size of the last tile is not known by
the receiver; therefore, padding bits are indistinguishable from the tile data bits, at this
stage. They will be removed by the SCHC C/D sublayer. If the size of the SCHC Fragment
Payload exceeds or equals the size of one regular tile plus the size of an L2 Word, this
SHOULD

 raise an error ﬂag.

MUST

 be

•

otherwise, tiles

MUST

 be assembled based on the a priori known tile size.

◦

◦

◦

If allowed by the Proﬁle, the end of the payload
shorter. Padding bits are indistinguishable from the tile data bits, at this stage.

 contain the last tile, which may be

MAY

The payload may contain the penultimate tile that, if allowed by the Proﬁle,
one L2 Word shorter than the regular tile size.

MAY

 be exactly

Otherwise, padding bits

MUST

 be discarded. This is possible because:

▪

▪

▪

the size of the tiles is known a priori,

tiles are larger than an L2 Word, and

padding bits are always strictly less than an L2 Word.

On receiving a SCHC ACK REQ or an All-1 SCHC Fragment:

•

if the receiver knows of any windows with missing tiles for the packet being reassembled, it
MUST

 return a SCHC ACK for the lowest-numbered such window:

•

otherwise:

◦

◦

if it has received at least one tile, it
window it currently has tiles for,

MUST

 return a SCHC ACK for the highest-numbered

otherwise, it

MUST

 return a SCHC ACK for window numbered 0.

A Proﬁle
which window the SCHC ACK reports about in these circumstances.

 specify other times and circumstances at which a receiver sends a SCHC ACK, and

MAY

Upon sending a SCHC ACK, the receiver

MUST

 increase the Attempts counter.

After receiving an All-1 SCHC Fragment, a receiver
SCHC Packet at least every time it prepares for sending a SCHC ACK for the last window.

 check the integrity of the reassembled

MUST

Upon receiving a SCHC Sender-Abort, the receiver

MAY

 exit with an error condition.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Upon expiration of the Inactivity Timer, the receiver
MAY

 exit with an error condition.

MUST

 send a SCHC Receiver-Abort, and it

On the Attempts counter exceeding MAX_ACK_REQUESTS, the receiver
Receiver-Abort, and it

 exit with an error condition.

MAY

MUST

 send a SCHC

Reassembly of the SCHC Packet concludes when:

•

a Sender-Abort has been received, or

•

the Inactivity Timer has expired, or

•

the Attempts counter has exceeded MAX_ACK_REQUESTS, or

•

at least an All-1 SCHC Fragment has been received and integrity checking of the reassembled
SCHC Packet is successful.

See Figure 44 for one among several possible examples of a Finite State Machine implementing a
receiver behavior obeying this speciﬁcation. The example provided is meant to match the sender
Finite State Machine of Figure 43.

9.  Padding Management

SCHC C/D and SCHC F/R operate on bits, not bytes. SCHC itself does not have any alignment
prerequisite. The size of SCHC Packets can be any number of bits.

If the L2 constrains the payload to align to coarser boundaries (for example, bytes), the SCHC
messages
MUST
less than the L2 Word size.

 be padded. When padding occurs, the number of appended bits

MUST

 be strictly

If a SCHC Packet is sent unfragmented (see Figure 24), it is padded as needed for transmission.

If a SCHC Packet needs to be fragmented for transmission, it is not padded in itself. Only the
SCHC F/R messages are padded as needed for transmission. Some SCHC F/R messages are
intrinsically aligned to L2 Words.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

A packet (e.g., an IPv6 packet)
         |                                           ^ (padding bits
         v                                           |       dropped)
+------------------+                      +--------------------+
| SCHC Compression |                      | SCHC Decompression |
+------------------+                      +--------------------+
         |                                           ^
         |   If no fragmentation,                    |
         +---- SCHC Packet + padding as needed ----->|
         |                                           | (integrity
         v                                           |  checked)
+--------------------+                       +-----------------+
| SCHC Fragmentation |                       | SCHC Reassembly |
+--------------------+                       +-----------------+
     |       ^                                   |       ^
     |       |                                   |       |
     |       +--- SCHC ACK + padding as needed --+       |
     |                                                   |
     +------- SCHC Fragments + padding as needed---------+

        Sender                                    Receiver

Figure 24: SCHC Operations, Including Padding as Needed

Each Proﬁle
which case no padding will take place at all.

MUST

 specify the size of the L2 Word. The L2 Word might actually be a single bit, in

A Proﬁle
RECOMMENDED

MUST

 value is 0.

 deﬁne the value of the padding bits if the L2 Word is wider than a single bit. The

10.  SCHC Compression for IPv6 and UDP Headers

This section lists the IPv6 and UDP header ﬁelds and describes how they can be compressed. An
example of a set of Rules for UDP/IPv6 header compression is provided in Appendix A.

10.1.  IPv6 Version Field

The IPv6 version ﬁeld is labeled by the protocol parser as being the "version" ﬁeld of the IPv6
protocol. Therefore, it only exists for IPv6 packets. In the Rule, TV is set to 6, MO to "ignore" and
CDA to "not-sent".

10.2.  IPv6 Traﬃc Class Field

If the Diﬀserv ﬁeld does not vary and is known by both sides, the Field Descriptor in the Rule
 contain a TV with this well-known value, an "equal" MO, and a "not-sent" CDA.
SHOULD

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Otherwise (e.g., ECN bits are to be transmitted), two possibilities can be considered depending on
the variability of the value:

•

One possibility is to not compress the ﬁeld and send the original value. In the Rule, TV is not
set to any particular value, MO is set to "ignore", and CDA is set to "value-sent".

•

If some upper bits in the ﬁeld are constant and known, a better option is to only send the
LSBs. In the Rule, TV is set to a value with the stable known upper part, MO is set to MSB(x),
and CDA to LSB.

ECN functionality depends on both bits of the ECN ﬁeld, which are the 2 LSBs of this ﬁeld;
hence, sending only a single LSB of this ﬁeld is

NOT RECOMMENDED

.

10.3.  Flow Label Field

If the ﬂow label is not set, i.e., its value is zero, the Field Descriptor in the Rule
TV set to zero, an "equal" MO, and a "not-sent" CDA.

SHOULD

 contain a

If the ﬂow label is set to a pseudorandom value according to
to any particular value, MO is set to "ignore", and CDA is set to "value-sent".

[RFC6437]

, in the Rule, TV is not set

If the ﬂow label is set according to some prior agreement, i.e., by a ﬂow state establishment
method as allowed by
[RFC6437]
agreed-upon value, an "equal" MO, and a "not-sent" CDA.

, the Field Descriptor in the Rule

SHOULD

 contain a TV with this

10.4.  Payload Length Field

This ﬁeld can be elided for the transmission on the LPWAN. The SCHC C/D recomputes the
original payload length value. In the Field Descriptor, TV is not set, MO is set to "ignore", and CDA
is "compute-*".

10.5.  Next Header Field

If the Next Header ﬁeld does not vary and is known by both sides, the Field Descriptor in the
Rule
SHOULD

 contain a TV with this Next Header value, the MO

 be "not-sent".

 be "equal", and the CDA

SHOULD

SHOULD

Otherwise, TV is not set in the Field Descriptor, MO is set to "ignore", and CDA is set to "value-
 also be used.
sent". Alternatively, a matching-list

MAY

10.6.  Hop Limit Field

The ﬁeld behavior for this ﬁeld is diﬀerent for Uplink and Downlink. In Uplink, since there is no
IP forwarding between the Dev and the SCHC C/D, the value is relatively constant. On the other
hand, the Downlink value depends on Internet routing and can change more frequently. The DI
can be used to distinguish both directions:

•

in an Up Field Descriptor, elide the ﬁeld: the TV is set to the known constant value, the MO is
set to "equal" and the CDA is set to "not-sent".

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

•

in a Dw Field Descriptor, the Hop Limit is elided for transmission and forced to 1 at the
receiver, by setting TV to 1, MO to "ignore" and CDA to "not-sent". This prevents any further
forwarding.

10.7.  IPv6 Addresses Fields

[RFC4944]

As in 6LoWPAN
and one for the Interface Identiﬁer (IID). These ﬁelds
single Rule being used for both directions, these values are identiﬁed by their role (Dev or App)
and not by their position in the header (source or destination).

, IPv6 addresses are split into two 64-bit-long ﬁelds; one for the preﬁx

 be compressed. To allow for a

SHOULD

10.7.1.  IPv6 Source and Destination Preﬁxes

MUST

Both ends
 be conﬁgured with the appropriate preﬁxes. For a speciﬁc ﬂow, the source and
destination preﬁxes can be unique and stored in the Context. In that case, the TV for the source
and destination preﬁxes contain the values, the MO is set to "equal" and the CDA is set to "not-
sent".

If the Rule is intended to compress packets with diﬀerent preﬁx values, match-mapping
SHOULD
be used. The diﬀerent preﬁxes are listed in the TV, the MO is set to "match-mapping" and the CDA
is set to "mapping-sent". See Figure 26.

Otherwise, the TV is not set, the MO is set to "ignore", and the CDA is set to "value-sent".

10.7.2.  IPv6 Source and Destination IID

If the Dev or App IID are based on an L2 address, then the IID can be reconstructed with
information coming from the L2 header. In that case, the TV is not set, the MO is set to "ignore"
and the CDA is set to "DevIID" or "AppIID". On LPWAN technologies where the frames carry a
single identiﬁer (corresponding to the Dev), AppIID cannot be used.

[RFC8065]

As described in
Another static value is used instead. In that case, the TV contains the static value, the MO
operator is set to "equal" and the CDA is set to "not-sent".

, it may be undesirable to build the Dev IPv6 IID out of the Dev address.

If several IIDs are possible, then the TV contains the list of possible IIDs, the MO is set to "match-
mapping" and the CDA is set to "mapping-sent".

It may also happen that the IID variability only expresses itself on a few bytes. In that case, the
TV is set to the stable part of the IID, the MO is set to "MSB" and the CDA is set to "LSB".

Finally, the IID can be sent in its entirety on the L2. In that case, the TV is not set, the MO is set to
"ignore", and the CDA is set to "value-sent".

10.8.  IPv6 Extension Headers

This document does not provide recommendations on how to compress IPv6 extension headers.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

10.9.  UDP Source and Destination Ports

To allow for a single Rule being used for both directions, the UDP port values are identiﬁed by
their role (Dev or App) and not by their position in the header (source or destination). The SCHC
C/D
 be aware of the traﬃc direction (Uplink, Downlink) to select the appropriate ﬁeld. The
following Rules apply for Dev and App port numbers.

MUST

If both ends know the port number, it can be elided. The TV contains the port number, the MO is
set to "equal", and the CDA is set to "not-sent".

If the port variation is on few bits, the TV contains the stable part of the port number, the MO is
set to "MSB", and the CDA is set to "LSB".

If some well-known values are used, the TV can contain the list of these values, the MO is set to
"match-mapping", and the CDA is set to "mapping-sent".

Otherwise, the port numbers are sent over the L2. The TV is not set, the MO is set to "ignore" and
the CDA is set to "value-sent".

10.10.  UDP Length Field

The parser MUST NOT label this ﬁeld unless the UDP Length value matches the Payload Length
value from the IPv6 header. The TV is not set, the MO is set to "ignore", and the CDA is set to
"compute-*".

10.11.  UDP Checksum Field

The UDP checksum operation is mandatory with IPv6 for most packets, but there are exceptions
[RFC8200]
.

For instance, protocols that use UDP as a tunnel encapsulation may enable zero-checksum mode
for a speciﬁc port (or set of ports) for sending and/or receiving.
implementing zero-checksum mode to follow the requirements speciﬁed in "Applicability
Statement for the Use of IPv6 UDP Datagrams with Zero Checksums"

 requires any node

.
[RFC6936]

[RFC8200]

[RFC6282]

 also speciﬁes that a UDP checksum can be elided by

6LoWPAN Header Compression
the compressor and recomputed by the decompressor when an upper layer guarantees the
integrity of the UDP payload and pseudo-header. A speciﬁc example of this is when a message
integrity check protects the compressed message between the compressor that elides the UDP
checksum and the decompressor that computes it, with a strength that is identical or better to the
UDP checksum.

Similarly, a SCHC compressor
least equal integrity protection for the UDP payload and the pseudo-header. In this case, the TV is
not set, the MO is set to "ignore", and the CDA is set to "compute-*".

 elide the UDP checksum when another layer guarantees at

MAY

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

In particular, when SCHC fragmentation is used, a fragmentation RCS of 2 bytes or more provides
equal or better protection than the UDP checksum; in that case, if the compressor is collocated
with the fragmentation point and the decompressor is collocated with the packet reassembly
point, and if the SCHC Packet is fragmented even when it would ﬁt unfragmented in the L2 MTU,
then the compressor
Checksum is elided is to be speciﬁed in the Proﬁle.

 verify and then elide the UDP checksum. Whether and when the UDP

MAY

Since the compression happens before the fragmentation, implementers should understand the
risks when dealing with unprotected data below the transport layer and take special care when
manipulating that data.

In other cases, the checksum
"ignore" and the CDA is set to "value-sent".

SHOULD

 be explicitly sent. The TV is not set, the MO is set to

11.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

12.  Security Considerations

As explained in Section 5, SCHC is expected to be implemented on top of LPWAN technologies,
which are expected to implement security measures.

In this section, we analyze the potential security threats that could be introduced into an LPWAN
by adding the SCHC functionalities.

12.1.  Security Considerations for SCHC Compression/Decompression

12.1.1.  Forged SCHC Packet

Let's assume that an attacker is able to send a forged SCHC Packet to a SCHC decompressor.

Let's ﬁrst consider the case where the RuleID contained in that forged SCHC Packet does not
correspond to a Rule allocated in the Rule table. An implementation should detect that the RuleID
is invalid and should silently drop the oﬀending SCHC Packet.

Let's now consider that the RuleID corresponds to a Rule in the table. With the CDAs deﬁned in
this document, the reconstructed packet is, at most, a constant number of bits bigger than the
SCHC Packet that was received. This assumes that the compute-* decompression actions produce
a bounded number of bits, irrespective of the incoming SCHC Packet. This property is true for
IPv6 Length, UDP Length, and UDP Checksum, for which the compute-* CDA is recommended by
this document.

As a consequence, SCHC decompression does not amplify attacks, beyond adding a bounded
number of bits to the SCHC Packet received. This bound is determined by the Rule stored in the
receiving device.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

As a general safety measure, a SCHC decompressor should never reconstruct a packet larger than
MAX_PACKET_SIZE (deﬁned in a Proﬁle, with 1500 bytes as generic default).

12.1.2.  Compressed Packet Size as a Side Channel to Guess a Secret Token

Some packet compression methods are known to be susceptible to attacks, such as BREACH and
CRIME. The attack involves injecting arbitrary data into the packet and observing the resulting
compressed packet size. The observed size potentially reﬂects correlation between the arbitrary
data and some content that was meant to remain secret, such as a security token, thereby
allowing the attacker to get at the secret.

By contrast, SCHC compression takes place header ﬁeld by header ﬁeld, with the SCHC Packet
being a mere concatenation of the compression residues of each of the individual ﬁeld. Any
correlation between header ﬁelds does not result in a change in the SCHC Packet size compressed
under the same Rule.

If SCHC C/D is used to compress packets that include a secret information ﬁeld, such as a token,
the Rule set should be designed so that the size of the compression residue for the ﬁeld to remain
secret is the same irrespective of the value of the secret information. This is achieved by, e.g.,
sending this ﬁeld in extenso with the "ignore" MO and the "value-sent" CDA. This
recommendation is disputable if it is ascertained that the Rule set itself will remain secret.

12.1.3.  Decompressed Packet Diﬀerent from the Original Packet

As explained in Section 7.2, using FPs with value 0 in Field Descriptors in a Rule may result in
header ﬁelds appearing in the decompressed packet in an order diﬀerent from that in the
original packet. Likewise, as stated in Section 7.4.3, using an "ignore" MO together with a "not-
sent" CDA will result in the header ﬁeld taking the TV value, which is likely to be diﬀerent from
the original value.

Depending on the protocol, the order of header ﬁelds in the packet may or may not be
functionally signiﬁcant.

Furthermore, if the packet is protected by a checksum or a similar integrity protection
mechanism, and if the checksum is transmitted instead of being recomputed as part of the
decompression, these situations may result in the packet being considered corrupt and dropped.

12.2.  Security Considerations for SCHC Fragmentation/Reassembly

12.2.1.  Buﬀer Reservation Attack

Let's assume that an attacker is able to send a forged SCHC Fragment to a SCHC reassembler.

A node can perform a buﬀer reservation attack: the receiver will reserve buﬀer space for the
SCHC Packet. If the implementation has only one buﬀer, other incoming fragmented SCHC
Packets will be dropped while the reassembly buﬀer is occupied during the reassembly timeout.
Once that timeout expires, the attacker can repeat the same procedure, and iterate, thus, creating
a denial-of-service attack. An implementation may have multiple reassembly buﬀers. The cost to
mount this attack is linear with the number of buﬀers at the target node. Better, the cost for an

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

attacker can be increased if individual fragments of multiple SCHC Packets can be stored in the
reassembly buﬀer. The ﬁner grained the reassembly buﬀer (down to the smallest tile size), the
higher the cost of the attack. If buﬀer overload does occur, a smart receiver could selectively
discard SCHC Packets being reassembled based on the sender behavior, which may help identify
which SCHC Fragments have been sent by the attacker. Another mild countermeasure is for the
target to abort the fragmentation/reassembly session as early as it detects a non-identical SCHC
Fragment duplicate, anticipating for an eventual corrupt SCHC Packet, so as to save the sender
the hassle of sending the rest of the fragments for this SCHC Packet.

12.2.2.  Corrupt Fragment Attack

Let's assume that an attacker is able to send a forged SCHC Fragment to a SCHC reassembler. The
malicious node is additionally assumed to be able to hear an incoming communication destined
to the target node.

It can then send a forged SCHC Fragment that looks like it belongs to a SCHC Packet already being
reassembled at the target node. This can cause the SCHC Packet to be considered corrupt and to
be dropped by the receiver. The ampliﬁcation happens here by a single spoofed SCHC Fragment
rendering a full sequence of legitimate SCHC Fragments useless. If the target uses ACK-Always or
ACK-on-Error mode, such a malicious node can also interfere with the acknowledgement and
repetition algorithm of SCHC F/R. A single spoofed ACK, with all Bitmap bits set to 0, will trigger
the repetition of WINDOW_SIZE tiles. This protocol loop ampliﬁcation depletes the energy source
of the target node and consumes the channel bandwidth. Similarly, a spoofed ACK REQ will
trigger the sending of a SCHC ACK, which may be much larger than the ACK REQ if
WINDOW_SIZE is large. These consequences should be borne in mind when deﬁning proﬁles for
SCHC over speciﬁc LPWAN technologies.

12.2.3.  Fragmentation as a Way to Bypass Network Inspection

Fragmentation is known for potentially allowing one to force through a Network Inspection
device (e.g., ﬁrewall) packets that would be rejected if unfragmented. This involves sending
overlapping fragments to rewrite ﬁelds whose initial value led the Network Inspection device to
allow the ﬂow to go through.

SCHC F/R is expected to be used over one LPWAN link, where no Network Inspection device is
expected to sit. As described in Section 5.2, even if the SCHC F/R on the Network Infrastructure
side is located in the Internet, a tunnel is to be established between it and the NGW.

12.2.4.  Privacy Issues Associated with SCHC Header Fields

SCHC F/R allocates a DTag value to fragments belonging to the same SCHC Packet. Concerns were
raised that, if DTag is a wide counter that is incremented in a predictable fashion for each new
fragmented SCHC Packet, it might lead to a privacy issue, such as enabling tracking of a device
across LPWANs.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

However, SCHC F/R is expected to be used over exactly one LPWAN link. As described in Section
5.2, even if the SCHC F/R on the Network Infrastructure side is located in the Internet, a tunnel is
to be established between it and the NGW. Therefore, assuming the tunnel provides
conﬁdentiality, neither the DTag ﬁeld nor any other SCHC-introduced ﬁeld is visible over the
Internet.

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6936]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

[RFC8376]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Fairhurst, G. and M. Westerlund "Applicability Statement for the Use of IPv6
,
UDP Datagrams with Zero Checksums" RFC 6936 DOI 10.17487/RFC6936
2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6936>

,

.

,

, April

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

.

,

,

,

Deering, S. and R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

, July 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Farrell, S., Ed. "Low-Power Wide Area Network (LPWAN) Overview" RFC 8376
DOI 10.17487/RFC8376

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8376>

, May 2018,

.

,

,

,

13.2.  Informative References

[ETHERNET]

[RFC4944]

[RFC5795]

[RFC6282]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Ethernet" DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2012.6419735 IEEE
Standard 802.3-2012
, December 2012,
document/6419735>
.

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/

,

,

Montenegro, G., Kushalnagar, N., Hui, J., and D. Culler "Transmission of IPv6
,
Packets over IEEE 802.15.4 Networks" RFC 4944 DOI 10.17487/RFC4944
September 2007,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4944>

,

,

.

,

Sandlund, K., Pelletier, G., and L-E. Jonsson "The RObust Header Compression
(ROHC) Framework" RFC 5795 DOI 10.17487/RFC5795
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5795>

, March 2010,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Hui, J., Ed. and P. Thubert "Compression Format for IPv6 Datagrams over IEEE
, September 2011,
802.15.4-Based Networks" RFC 6282 DOI 10.17487/RFC6282
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6282>

,
,

,

.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

[RFC6437]

[RFC7136]

[RFC8065]

Amante, S., Carpenter, B., Jiang, S., and J. Rajahalme "IPv6 Flow Label
Speciﬁcation" RFC 6437 DOI 10.17487/RFC6437
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6437>

, November 2011,

.

,

,

<https://

Carpenter, B. and S. Jiang "Signiﬁcance of IPv6 Interface Identiﬁers" RFC 7136
DOI 10.17487/RFC7136
rfc7136>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2014,

.

,

,

,

,

Thaler, D. "Privacy Considerations for IPv6 Adaptation-Layer Mechanisms" RFC
,
8065 DOI 10.17487/RFC8065
rfc8065>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2017,

.

Appendix A.  Compression Examples

This section gives some scenarios of the compression mechanism for IPv6/UDP. The goal is to
illustrate the behavior of SCHC.

The mechanisms deﬁned in this document can be applied to a Dev that embeds some
applications running over CoAP. In this example, three ﬂows are considered. The ﬁrst ﬂow is for
the device management based on CoAP using Link Local IPv6 addresses and UDP ports 123 and
124 for Dev and App, respectively. The second ﬂow is a CoAP server for measurements done by
the Dev (using ports 5683) and Global IPv6 Address preﬁxes alpha::IID/64 to beta::1/64. The last
ﬂow is for legacy applications using diﬀerent ports numbers, the destination IPv6 address preﬁx
is gamma::1/64.

Figure 25 presents the protocol stack. IPv6 and UDP are represented with dotted lines since these
protocols are compressed on the radio link.

 Management   Data
+----------+---------+---------+
|   CoAP   |  CoAP   | legacy  |
+----||----+---||----+---||----+
.   UDP    .  UDP    |   UDP   |
................................
.   IPv6   .  IPv6   .  IPv6   .
+------------------------------+
|    SCHC Header compression   |
|      and fragmentation       |
+------------------------------+
|      LPWAN L2 technologies   |
+------------------------------+
         Dev or NGW

Figure 25: Simpliﬁed Protocol Stack for LP-WAN

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Rule 0
  Special RuleID used to tag an uncompressed UDP/IPV6 packet.

Rule 1
 +----------------+--+--+--+---------+--------+------------++------+
 |       FID      |FL|FP|DI|    TV   |   MO   |     CDA    || Sent |
 |                |  |  |  |         |        |            ||[bits]|
 +----------------+--+--+--+---------+---------------------++------+
 |IPv6 Version    |4 |1 |Bi|6        | ignore | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Diffserv   |8 |1 |Bi|0        | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Flow Label |20|1 |Bi|0        | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Length     |16|1 |Bi|         | ignore | compute-*  ||      |
 |IPv6 Next Header|8 |1 |Bi|17       | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Hop Limit  |8 |1 |Bi|255      | ignore | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 DevPrefix  |64|1 |Bi|FE80::/64| equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 DevIID     |64|1 |Bi|         | ignore | DevIID     ||      |
 |IPv6 AppPrefix  |64|1 |Bi|FE80::/64| equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 AppIID     |64|1 |Bi|::1      | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 +================+==+==+==+=========+========+============++======+
 |UDP DevPort     |16|1 |Bi|123      | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |UDP AppPort     |16|1 |Bi|124      | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |UDP Length      |16|1 |Bi|         | ignore | compute-*  ||      |
 |UDP checksum    |16|1 |Bi|         | ignore | compute-*  ||      |
 +================+==+==+==+=========+========+============++======+

Figure 26: Context Rules - Rule 0 and Rule 1

 Rule 2
 +----------------+--+--+--+---------+--------+------------++------+
 |       FID      |FL|FP|DI|    TV   |   MO   |     CDA    || Sent |
 |                |  |  |  |         |        |            ||[bits]|
 +----------------+--+--+--+---------+--------+------------++------+
 |IPv6 Version    |4 |1 |Bi|6        | ignore | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Diffserv   |8 |1 |Bi|0        | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Flow Label |20|1 |Bi|0        | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Length     |16|1 |Bi|         | ignore | compute-*  ||      |
 |IPv6 Next Header|8 |1 |Bi|17       | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Hop Limit  |8 |1 |Bi|255      | ignore | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 DevPrefix  |64|1 |Bi|[alpha/64, match- |mapping-sent||   1  |
 |                |  |  |  |fe80::/64] mapping|            ||      |
 |IPv6 DevIID     |64|1 |Bi|         | ignore | DevIID     ||      |
 |IPv6 AppPrefix  |64|1 |Bi|[beta/64,| match- |mapping-sent||   2  |
 |                |  |  |  |alpha/64,| mapping|            ||      |
 |                |  |  |  |fe80::64]|        |            ||      |
 |IPv6 AppIID     |64|1 |Bi|::1000   | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 +================+==+==+==+=========+========+============++======+
 |UDP DevPort     |16|1 |Bi|5683     | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |UDP AppPort     |16|1 |Bi|5683     | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |UDP Length      |16|1 |Bi|         | ignore | compute-*  ||      |
 |UDP checksum    |16|1 |Bi|         | ignore | compute-*  ||      |
 +================+==+==+==+=========+========+============++======+

Figure 27: Context Rules - Rule 2

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

 Rule 3
 +----------------+--+--+--+---------+--------+------------++------+
 |       FID      |FL|FP|DI|    TV   |   MO   |     CDA    || Sent |
 |                |  |  |  |         |        |            ||[bits]|
 +----------------+--+--+--+---------+--------+------------++------+
 |IPv6 Version    |4 |1 |Bi|6        | ignore | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Diffserv   |8 |1 |Bi|0        | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Flow Label |20|1 |Bi|0        | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Length     |16|1 |Bi|         | ignore | compute-*  ||      |
 |IPv6 Next Header|8 |1 |Bi|17       | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Hop Limit  |8 |1 |Up|255      | ignore | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 Hop Limit  |8 |1 |Dw|         | ignore | value-sent ||   8  |
 |IPv6 DevPrefix  |64|1 |Bi|alpha/64 | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 DevIID     |64|1 |Bi|         | ignore | DevIID     ||      |
 |IPv6 AppPrefix  |64|1 |Bi|gamma/64 | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 |IPv6 AppIID     |64|1 |Bi|::1000   | equal  | not-sent   ||      |
 +================+==+==+==+=========+========+============++======+
 |UDP DevPort     |16|1 |Bi|8720     | MSB(12)| LSB        ||   4  |
 |UDP AppPort     |16|1 |Bi|8720     | MSB(12)| LSB        ||   4  |
 |UDP Length      |16|1 |Bi|         | ignore | compute-*  ||      |
 |UDP checksum    |16|1 |Bi|         | ignore | compute-*  ||      |
 +================+==+==+==+=========+========+============++======+

Figure 28: Context Rules - Rule 3

Figures 26 to 28 describe an example of a Rule set.

In this example, 0 was chosen as the special RuleID that tags packets that cannot be compressed
with any compression Rule.

All the ﬁelds described in Rules 1-3 are present in the IPv6 and UDP headers. The DevIID value is
inferred from the L2 header.

Rules 2-3 use global addresses. The way the Dev learns the preﬁx is not in the scope of the
document.

Rule 3 compresses each port number to 4 bits.

Appendix B.  Fragmentation Examples

This section provides examples for the various fragment reliability modes speciﬁed in this
document. In the drawings, Bitmaps are shown in their uncompressed form.

Figure 29 illustrates the transmission in No-ACK mode of a SCHC Packet that needs 11 SCHC
Fragments. FCN is 1 bit wide.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

        Sender               Receiver
          |-------FCN=0-------->|
          |-------FCN=0-------->|
          |-------FCN=0-------->|
          |-------FCN=0-------->|
          |-------FCN=0-------->|
          |-------FCN=0-------->|
          |-------FCN=0-------->|
          |-------FCN=0-------->|
          |-------FCN=0-------->|
          |-------FCN=0-------->|
          |-----FCN=1 + RCS --->| Integrity check: success
        (End)

Figure 29: No-ACK Mode, 11 SCHC Fragments

In the following examples, N (the size of the FCN ﬁeld) is 3 bits. The All-1 FCN value is therefore 7.

Figure 30 illustrates the transmission in ACK-on-Error mode of a SCHC Packet fragmented in 11
tiles, with one tile per SCHC Fragment, WINDOW_SIZE=7 and no lost SCHC Fragment.

        Sender               Receiver
          |-----W=0, FCN=6----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=5----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=4----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=3----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=2----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=1----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=0----->|
      (no ACK)
          |-----W=1, FCN=6----->|
          |-----W=1, FCN=5----->|
          |-----W=1, FCN=4----->|
          |--W=1, FCN=7 + RCS-->| Integrity check: success
          |<-- ACK, W=1, C=1 ---| C=1
        (End)

Figure 30: ACK-on-Error Mode, 11 Tiles, One Tile per SCHC Fragment, No Lost SCHC Fragment

Figure 31 illustrates the transmission in ACK-on-Error mode of a SCHC Packet fragmented in 11
tiles, with one tile per SCHC Fragment, WINDOW_SIZE=7, and three lost SCHC Fragments.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

        Sender               Receiver
          |-----W=0, FCN=6----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=5----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=4--X-->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=3----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=2--X-->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=1----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=0----->|        6543210
          |<-- ACK, W=0, C=0 ---| Bitmap:1101011
          |-----W=0, FCN=4----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=2----->|
      (no ACK)
          |-----W=1, FCN=6----->|
          |-----W=1, FCN=5----->|
          |-----W=1, FCN=4--X-->|
          |- W=1, FCN=7 + RCS ->| Integrity check: failure
          |<-- ACK, W=1, C=0 ---| C=0, Bitmap:1100001
          |-----W=1, FCN=4----->| Integrity check: success
          |<-- ACK, W=1, C=1 ---| C=1
        (End)

Figure 31: ACK-on-Error Mode, 11 Tiles, One Tile per SCHC Fragment, Lost SCHC Fragments

Figure 32 shows an example of a transmission in ACK-on-Error mode of a SCHC Packet
fragmented in 73 tiles, with N=5, WINDOW_SIZE=28, M=2, and three lost SCHC Fragments.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

   Sender               Receiver
    |-----W=0, FCN=27----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=0, FCN=23----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=0, FCN=19----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=0, FCN=15--X-->| 4 tiles sent (not received)
    |-----W=0, FCN=11----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=0, FCN=7 ----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=0, FCN=3 ----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=1, FCN=27----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=1, FCN=23----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=1, FCN=19----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=1, FCN=15----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=1, FCN=11----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=1, FCN=7 ----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=1, FCN=3 --X-->| 4 tiles sent (not received)
    |-----W=2, FCN=27----->| 4 tiles sent
    |-----W=2, FCN=23----->| 4 tiles sent
^   |-----W=2, FCN=19----->| 1 tile sent
|   |-----W=2, FCN=18----->| 1 tile sent
|   |-----W=2, FCN=17----->| 1 tile sent
    |-----W=2, FCN=16----->| 1 tile sent
s   |-----W=2, FCN=15----->| 1 tile sent
m   |-----W=2, FCN=14----->| 1 tile sent
a   |-----W=2, FCN=13--X-->| 1 tile sent (not received)
l   |-----W=2, FCN=12----->| 1 tile sent
l   |---W=2, FCN=31 + RCS->| Integrity check: failure
e   |<--- ACK, W=0, C=0 ---| C=0, Bitmap:1111111111110000111111111111
r   |-----W=0, FCN=15----->| 1 tile sent
    |-----W=0, FCN=14----->| 1 tile sent
L   |-----W=0, FCN=13----->| 1 tile sent
2   |-----W=0, FCN=12----->| 1 tile sent
    |<--- ACK, W=1, C=0 ---| C=0, Bitmap:1111111111111111111111110000
M   |-----W=1, FCN=3 ----->| 1 tile sent
T   |-----W=1, FCN=2 ----->| 1 tile sent
U   |-----W=1, FCN=1 ----->| 1 tile sent
    |-----W=1, FCN=0 ----->| 1 tile sent
|   |<--- ACK, W=2, C=0 ---| C=0, Bitmap:1111111111111101000000000001
|   |-----W=2, FCN=13----->| Integrity check: success
V   |<--- ACK, W=2, C=1 ---| C=1
  (End)

Figure 32: ACK-on-Error Mode, Variable MTU

In this example, the L2 MTU becomes reduced just before sending the "W=2, FCN=19" fragment,
leaving space for only one tile in each forthcoming SCHC Fragment. Before retransmissions, the
73 tiles are carried by a total of 25 SCHC Fragments, the last nine being of smaller size.

Note: other sequences of events (e.g., regarding when ACKs are sent by the Receiver) are also
allowed by this speciﬁcation. Proﬁles may restrict this ﬂexibility.

Figure 33 illustrates the transmission in ACK-Always mode of a SCHC Packet fragmented in 11
tiles, with one tile per SCHC Fragment, with N=3, WINDOW_SIZE=7, and no loss.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

        Sender               Receiver
          |-----W=0, FCN=6----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=5----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=4----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=3----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=2----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=1----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=0----->|
          |<-- ACK, W=0, C=0 ---| Bitmap:1111111
          |-----W=1, FCN=6----->|
          |-----W=1, FCN=5----->|
          |-----W=1, FCN=4----->|
          |--W=1, FCN=7 + RCS-->| Integrity check: success
          |<-- ACK, W=1, C=1 ---| C=1
        (End)

Figure 33: ACK-Always Mode, 11 Tiles, One Tile per SCHC Fragment, No Loss

Figure 34 illustrates the transmission in ACK-Always mode of a SCHC Packet fragmented in 11
tiles, with one tile per SCHC Fragment, N=3, WINDOW_SIZE=7 and three lost SCHC Fragments.

        Sender               Receiver
          |-----W=0, FCN=6----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=5----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=4--X-->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=3----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=2--X-->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=1----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=0----->|        6543210
          |<-- ACK, W=0, C=0 ---| Bitmap:1101011
          |-----W=0, FCN=4----->|
          |-----W=0, FCN=2----->|
          |<-- ACK, W=0, C=0 ---| Bitmap:1111111
          |-----W=1, FCN=6----->|
          |-----W=1, FCN=5----->|
          |-----W=1, FCN=4--X-->|
          |--W=1, FCN=7 + RCS-->| Integrity check: failure
          |<-- ACK, W=1, C=0 ---| C=0, Bitmap:11000001
          |-----W=1, FCN=4----->| Integrity check: success
          |<-- ACK, W=1, C=1 ---| C=1
        (End)

Figure 34: ACK-Always Mode, 11 Tiles, One Tile per SCHC Fragment, Three Lost SCHC Fragments

Figure 35 illustrates the transmission in ACK-Always mode of a SCHC Packet fragmented in six
tiles, with one tile per SCHC Fragment, N=3, WINDOW_SIZE=7, three lost SCHC Fragments, and
only one retry needed to recover each lost SCHC Fragment.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

          Sender                Receiver
             |-----W=0, FCN=6----->|
             |-----W=0, FCN=5----->|
             |-----W=0, FCN=4--X-->|
             |-----W=0, FCN=3--X-->|
             |-----W=0, FCN=2--X-->|
             |--W=0, FCN=7 + RCS-->| Integrity check: failure
             |<-- ACK, W=0, C=0 ---| C=0, Bitmap:1100001
             |-----W=0, FCN=4----->| Integrity check: failure
             |-----W=0, FCN=3----->| Integrity check: failure
             |-----W=0, FCN=2----->| Integrity check: success
             |<-- ACK, W=0, C=1 ---| C=1
           (End)

Figure 35: ACK-Always Mode, Six Tiles, One Tile per SCHC Fragment, Three Lost SCHC Fragments

Figure 36 illustrates the transmission in ACK-Always mode of a SCHC Packet fragmented in six
tiles, with one tile per SCHC Fragment, N=3, WINDOW_SIZE=7, three lost SCHC Fragments, and
the second SCHC ACK lost.

          Sender                Receiver
             |-----W=0, FCN=6----->|
             |-----W=0, FCN=5----->|
             |-----W=0, FCN=4--X-->|
             |-----W=0, FCN=3--X-->|
             |-----W=0, FCN=2--X-->|
             |--W=0, FCN=7 + RCS-->| Integrity check: failure
             |<-- ACK, W=0, C=0 ---| C=0, Bitmap:1100001
             |-----W=0, FCN=4----->| Integrity check: failure
             |-----W=0, FCN=3----->| Integrity check: failure
             |-----W=0, FCN=2----->| Integrity check: success
             |<-X-ACK, W=0, C=1 ---| C=1
    timeout  |                     |
             |--- W=0, ACK REQ --->| ACK REQ
             |<-- ACK, W=0, C=1 ---| C=1
           (End)

Figure 36: ACK-Always Mode, Six Tiles, One Tile per SCHC Fragment, SCHC ACK Loss

Figure 37 illustrates the transmission in ACK-Always mode of a SCHC Packet fragmented in six
tiles, with N=3, WINDOW_SIZE=7, with three lost SCHC Fragments, and one retransmitted SCHC
Fragment lost again.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

           Sender                Receiver
             |-----W=0, FCN=6----->|
             |-----W=0, FCN=5----->|
             |-----W=0, FCN=4--X-->|
             |-----W=0, FCN=3--X-->|
             |-----W=0, FCN=2--X-->|
             |--W=0, FCN=7 + RCS-->| Integrity check: failure
             |<-- ACK, W=0, C=0 ---| C=0, Bitmap:1100001
             |-----W=0, FCN=4----->| Integrity check: failure
             |-----W=0, FCN=3----->| Integrity check: failure
             |-----W=0, FCN=2--X-->|
      timeout|                     |
             |--- W=0, ACK REQ --->| ACK REQ
             |<-- ACK, W=0, C=0 ---| C=0, Bitmap: 1111101
             |-----W=0, FCN=2----->| Integrity check: success
             |<-- ACK, W=0, C=1 ---| C=1
           (End)

Figure 37: ACK-Always Mode, Six Tiles, Retransmitted SCHC Fragment Lost Again

Figure 38 illustrates the transmission in ACK-Always mode of a SCHC Packet fragmented in 28
tiles, with one tile per SCHC Fragment, N=5, WINDOW_SIZE=24, and two lost SCHC Fragments.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

      Sender               Receiver
        |-----W=0, FCN=23----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=22----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=21--X-->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=20----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=19----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=18----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=17----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=16----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=15----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=14----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=13----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=12----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=11----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=10--X-->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=9 ----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=8 ----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=7 ----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=6 ----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=5 ----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=4 ----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=3 ----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=2 ----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=1 ----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=0 ----->|
        |                      |
        |<--- ACK, W=0, C=0 ---| Bitmap:110111111111101111111111
        |-----W=0, FCN=21----->|
        |-----W=0, FCN=10----->|
        |<--- ACK, W=0, C=0 ---| Bitmap:111111111111111111111111
        |-----W=1, FCN=23----->|
        |-----W=1, FCN=22----->|
        |-----W=1, FCN=21----->|
        |--W=1, FCN=31 + RCS-->| Integrity check: success
        |<--- ACK, W=1, C=1 ---| C=1
      (End)

Figure 38: ACK-Always Mode, 28 Tiles, One Tile per SCHC Fragment, Lost SCHC Fragments

Appendix C.  Fragmentation State Machines

The fragmentation state machines of the sender and the receiver, one for each of the diﬀerent
reliability modes, are described in the following ﬁgures:

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 60

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

             +===========+
+------------+  Init     |
|  FCN=0     +===========+
|  No Window
|  No Bitmap
|                   +-------+
|          +========+==+    | More Fragments
|          |           | <--+ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
+--------> |   Send    |      send Fragment (FCN=0)
           +===+=======+
               |  last fragment
               |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~
               |  FCN = 1
               v  send fragment+RCS
           +============+
           |    END     |
           +============+

Figure 39: Sender State Machine for the No-ACK Mode

                      +------+ Not All-1
           +==========+=+    | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
           |            + <--+ set Inactivity Timer
           |  RCV Frag  +-------+
           +=+===+======+       |All-1 &
   All-1 &   |   |              |RCS correct
 RCS wrong   |   |Inactivity    |
             |   |Timer Exp.    |
             v   |              |
  +==========++  |              v
  |   Error   |<-+     +========+==+
  +===========+        |    END    |
                       +===========+

Figure 40: Receiver State Machine for the No-ACK Mode

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 61

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

              +=======+
              | INIT  |       FCN!=0 & more frags
              |       |       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
              +======++  +--+ send Window + frag(FCN)
                 W=0 |   |  | FCN-
  Clear lcl_bm       |   |  v set lcl_bm
       FCN=max value |  ++==+========+
                     +> |            |
+---------------------> |    SEND    |
|                       +==+===+=====+
|      FCN==0 & more frags |   | last frag
|    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |   | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|               set lcl_bm |   | set lcl_bm
|   send wnd + frag(all-0) |   | send wnd+frag(all-1)+RCS
|       set Retrans_Timer  |   | set Retrans_Timer
|                          |   |
|Recv_wnd == wnd &         |   |
|lcl_bm==recv_bm &         |   |  +----------------------+
|more frag                 |   |  | lcl_bm!=rcv-bm       |
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    |   |  | ~~~~~~~~~            |
|Stop Retrans_Timer        |   |  | Attempt++            v
|clear lcl_bm              v   v  |                +=====+=+
|window=next_window   +====+===+==+===+            |Resend |
+---------------------+               |            |Missing|
                 +----+     Wait      |            |Frag   |
not expected wnd |    |    Bitmap     |            +=======+
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ +--->+               ++Retrans_Timer Exp  |
    discard frag      +==+=+===+=+==+=+| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |
                         | |   | ^  ^  |reSend(empty)All-* |
                         | |   | |  |  |Set Retrans_Timer  |
                         | |   | |  +--+Attempt++          |
  C_bit==1 &             | |   | +-------------------------+
Recv_window==window &    | |   |   all missing frags sent
             no more frag| |   |   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~| |   |   Set Retrans_Timer
       Stop Retrans_Timer| |   |
 +=============+         | |   |
 |     END     +<--------+ |   |
 +=============+           |   | Attempt > MAX_ACK_REQUESTS
            All-1 Window & |   | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
               C_bit ==0 & |   v Send Abort
          lcl_bm==recv_bm  | +=+===========+
              ~~~~~~~~~~~~ +>|    ERROR    |
                Send Abort   +=============+

Figure 41: Sender State Machine for the ACK-Always Mode

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 62

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 63

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

 Not All- & w=expected +---+   +---+w = Not expected
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |   |   |   |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 Set lcl_bm(FCN)       |   v   v   |discard
                      ++===+===+===+=+
+---------------------+     Rcv      +--->* ABORT
|  +------------------+   Window     |
|  |                  +=====+==+=====+
|  |       All-0 & w=expect |  ^ w =next & not-All
|  |     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|  |    set lcl_bm(FCN)     |  |expected = next window
|  |      send lcl_bm       |  |Clear lcl_bm
|  |                        |  |
|  | w=expected & not-All   |  |
|  | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     |  |
|  |     set lcl_bm(FCN)+-+ |  | +--+ w=next & All-0
|  |     if lcl_bm full | | |  | |  | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|  |     send lcl_bm    | | |  | |  | expected = nxt wnd
|  |                    v | v  | |  | Clear lcl_bm
|  |w=expected& All-1 +=+=+=+==+=++ | set lcl_bm(FCN)
|  |  ~~~~~~~~~~~  +->+    Wait   +<+ send lcl_bm
|  |    discard    +--|    Next   |
|  | All-0  +---------+  Window   +--->* ABORT
|  | ~~~~~  +-------->+========+=++
|  | snd lcl_bm  All-1 & w=next| |  All-1 & w=nxt
|  |                & RCS wrong| |  & RCS right
|  |          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~| | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|  |            set lcl_bm(FCN)| |set lcl_bm(FCN)
|  |                send lcl_bm| |send lcl_bm
|  |                           | +----------------------+
|  |All-1 & w=expected         |                        |
|  |& RCS wrong                v   +---+ w=expected &   |
|  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  +====+=====+ | RCS wrong      |
|  |set lcl_bm(FCN)       |          +<+ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |
|  |send lcl_bm           | Wait End |   set lcl_bm(FCN)|
|  +--------------------->+          +--->* ABORT       |
|                         +===+====+=+-+ All-1&RCS wrong|
|                             |    ^   | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|
|      w=expected & RCS right |    +---+   send lcl_bm  |
|      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |                         |
|       set lcl_bm(FCN)       | +-+ Not All-1           |
|        send lcl_bm          | | | ~~~~~~~~~           |
|                             | | |  discard            |
|All-1&w=expected & RCS right | | |                     |
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ v | v +----+All-1         |
|set lcl_bm(FCN)            +=+=+=+=+==+ |~~~~~~~~~     |
|send lcl_bm                |          +<+Send lcl_bm   |
+-------------------------->+    END   |                |
                            +==========+<---------------+

       --->* ABORT

       In any state
          on receiving a SCHC ACK REQ
             Send a SCHC ACK for the current window

Figure 42: Receiver State Machine for the ACK-Always Mode

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 64

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

                  +=======+
                  |       |
                  | INIT  |
                  |       |       FCN!=0 & more frags
                  +======++       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
     Frag RuleID trigger |   +--+ Send cur_W + frag(FCN);
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |   |  | FCN--;
  cur_W=0; FCN=max_value;|   |  | set [cur_W, cur_Bmp]
    clear [cur_W, Bmp_n];|   |  v
          clear rcv_Bmp  |  ++==+==========+       **BACK_TO_SEND
                         +->+              |   cur_W==rcv_W &
      **BACK_TO_SEND        |     SEND     |   [cur_W,Bmp_n]==rcv_Bmp
+-------------------------->+              |   & more frags
|  +----------------------->+              |   ~~~~~~~~~~~~
|  |                        ++==+==========+   cur_W++;
|  |      FCN==0 & more frags|  |last frag     clear [cur_W, Bmp_n]
|  |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|  |~~~~~~~~~
|  |        set cur_Bmp;     |  |set [cur_W, Bmp_n];
|  |send cur_W + frag(All-0);|  |send cur_W + frag(All-1)+RCS;
|  |        set Retrans_Timer|  |set Retrans_Timer
|  |                         |  | +---------------------------------+
|  |                         |  | |cur_W ==                         |
|  |Retrans_Timer expires &  |  | |   rcv_W & [cur_W,Bmp_n]!=rcv_Bmp|
|  |more Frags               |  | |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            |
|  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     |  | |  Attempts++; W=cur_W            |
|  |stop Retrans_Timer;      |  | | +--------+           rcv_W==Wn &|
|  |[cur_W,Bmp_n]==cur_Bmp;  v  v | |        v   [Wn,Bmp_n]!=rcv_Bmp|
|  |cur_W++            +=====+==+=+=+==+   +=+=========+ ~~~~~~~~~~~|
|  +-------------------+               |   | Resend    | Attempts++;|
+----------------------+   Wait x ACK  |   | Missing   |       W=Wn |
+--------------------->+               |   | Frags(W)  +<-----------+
|         rcv_W==Wn &+-+               |   +======+====+
| [Wn,Bmp_n]!=rcv_Bmp| ++=+===+===+==+=+          |
|      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|  ^ |   |   |  ^            |
|        send (cur_W,+--+ |   |   |  +------------+
|        ALL-0-empty)     |   |   |     all missing frag sent(W)
|                         |   |   |     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|  Retrans_Timer expires &|   |   |     set Retrans_Timer
|            No more Frags|   |   |
|           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|   |   |
|      stop Retrans_Timer;|   |   |
|(re)send frag(All-1)+RCS |   |   |
+-------------------------+   |   |
                 cur_W==rcv_W&|   |
       [cur_W,Bmp_n]==rcv_Bmp&|   | Attempts > MAX_ACK_REQUESTS
  No more Frags & RCS flag==OK|   | ~~~~~~~~~~
            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|   | send Abort
 +=========+stop Retrans_Timer|   |  +===========+
 |   END   +<-----------------+   +->+   ERROR   |
 +=========+                         +===========+

Figure 43: Sender State Machine for the ACK-on-Error Mode

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 65

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

This is an example only. It is not normative. The speciﬁcation in Section 8.4.3.1 allows for
sequences of operations diﬀerent from the one shown here.

                 +=======+        New frag RuleID received
                 |       |        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                 | INIT  +-------+cur_W=0;clear([cur_W,Bmp_n]);
                 +=======+       |sync=0
                                 |
    Not All* & rcv_W==cur_W+---+ | +--+
      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |   | | | (E)
      set[cur_W,Bmp_n(FCN)]|   v v v  |
                          ++===+=+=+==+=+
   +----------------------+             +--+ All-0&Full[cur_W,Bmp_n]
   |           ABORT *<---+  Rcv Window |  | ~~~~~~~~~~
   |  +-------------------+             +<-+ cur_W++;set Inact_timer;
   |  |                +->+=+=+=+=+=+===+    clear [cur_W,Bmp_n]
   |  | All-0 empty(Wn)|    | | | ^ ^
   |  | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ +----+ | | | |rcv_W==cur_W & sync==0;
   |  | sendACK([Wn,Bmp_n])   | | | |& Full([cur_W,Bmp_n])
   |  |                       | | | |& All* || last_miss_frag
   |  |                       | | | |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
   |  |    All* & rcv_W==cur_W|(C)| |sendACK([cur_W,Bmp_n]);
   |  |              & sync==0| | | |cur_W++; clear([cur_W,Bmp_n])
   |  |&no_full([cur_W,Bmp_n])| |(E)|
   |  |      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ | | | |              +========+
   |  | sendACK([cur_W,Bmp_n])| | | |              | Error/ |
   |  |                       | | | |   +----+     | Abort  |
   |  |                       v v | |   |    |     +===+====+
   |  |                   +===+=+=+=+===+=+ (D)        ^
   |  |                +--+    Wait x     |  |         |
   |  | All-0 empty(Wn)+->| Missing Frags |<-+         |
   |  | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    +=============+=+            |
   |  | sendACK([Wn,Bmp_n])             +--------------+
   |  |                                       *ABORT
   v  v
  (A)(B)
                                   (D) All* || last_miss_frag
    (C) All* & sync>0                  & rcv_W!=cur_W & sync>0
        ~~~~~~~~~~~~                   & Full([rcv_W,Bmp_n])
        Wn=oldest[not full(W)];        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
        sendACK([Wn,Bmp_n])            Wn=oldest[not full(W)];
                                       sendACK([Wn,Bmp_n]);sync--

                             ABORT-->* Uplink Only &
                                       Inact_Timer expires
    (E) Not All* & rcv_W!=cur_W        || Attempts > MAX_ACK_REQUESTS
        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
        sync++; cur_W=rcv_W;           send Abort
        set[cur_W,Bmp_n(FCN)]

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 66

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

  (A)(B)
   |  |
   |  | All-1 & rcv_W==cur_W & RCS!=OK        All-0 empty(Wn)
   |  | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     +-+  ~~~~~~~~~~
   |  | sendACK([cur_W,Bmp_n],C=0)       | v  sendACK([Wn,Bmp_n])
   |  |                      +===========+=++
   |  +--------------------->+   Wait End   +-+
   |                         +=====+=+====+=+ | All-1
   |     rcv_W==cur_W & RCS==OK    | |    ^   | & rcv_W==cur_W
   |     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    | |    +---+ & RCS!=OK
   |  sendACK([cur_W,Bmp_n],C=1)   | |          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
   |                               | | sendACK([cur_W,Bmp_n],C=0);
   |                               | |          Attempts++
   |All-1 & Full([cur_W,Bmp_n])    | |
   |& RCS==OK & sync==0            | +-->* ABORT
   |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            v
   |sendACK([cur_W,Bmp_n],C=1)   +=+=========+
   +---------------------------->+    END    |
                                 +===========+

Figure 44: Receiver State Machine for the ACK-on-Error Mode

Appendix D.  SCHC Parameters

This section lists the information that needs to be provided in the LPWAN technology-speciﬁc
documents.

•

Most common uses cases, deployment scenarios.

•

Mapping of the SCHC architectural elements onto the LPWAN architecture.

•

Assessment of LPWAN integrity checking.

•

Various potential channel conditions for the technology and the corresponding
recommended use of SCHC C/D and SCHC F/R.

This section lists the parameters that need to be deﬁned in the Proﬁle.

•

RuleID numbering scheme, ﬁxed-size or variable-size RuleIDs, number of Rules, the way the
RuleID is transmitted.

•

maximum packet size that should ever be reconstructed by SCHC decompression
(MAX_PACKET_SIZE). See Section 12.

•

Padding: size of the L2 Word (for most LPWAN technologies, this would be a byte; for some
technologies, a bit).

•

Decision to use SCHC fragmentation mechanism or not. If yes, the document must describe:

◦

◦

◦

◦

reliability mode(s) used, in which cases (e.g., based on link channel condition).

RuleID values assigned to each mode in use.

presence and number of bits for DTag (T) for each RuleID value, lifetime of DTag at the
receiver.

support for interleaved packet transmission, to what extent.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 67

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

◦

WINDOW_SIZE, for modes that use windows.

number of bits for W (M) for each RuleID value, for modes that use windows.

number of bits for FCN (N) for each RuleID value, meaning of the FCN values.

what makes an All-0 SCHC Fragment and a SCHC ACK REQ distinguishable (see Section
8.3.1.1).

what makes an All-1 SCHC Fragment and a SCHC Sender-Abort distinguishable (see Section
8.3.1.2).

for RuleIDs that use ACK-on-Error mode: when the last tile of a SCHC Packet is to be sent in
a Regular SCHC Fragment, alone in an All-1 SCHC Fragment or with any of these two
methods.

for RuleIDs that use ACK-on-Error mode: if the penultimate tile of a SCHC Packet is of the
regular size only or if it can also be one L2 Word shorter.

for RuleIDs that use ACK-on-Error mode: times at which the sender must listen for SCHC
ACKs.

size of RCS and algorithm for its computation, for each RuleID, if diﬀerent from the default
CRC32. Byte ﬁll-up with zeroes or other mechanism, to be speciﬁed. Support for UDP
checksum elision.

Retransmission Timer duration for each RuleID value, if applicable to the SCHC F/R mode.

Inactivity Timer duration for each RuleID value, if applicable to the SCHC F/R mode.

MAX_ACK_REQUESTS value for each RuleID value, if applicable to the SCHC F/R mode.

•

if L2 Word is wider than a bit and SCHC fragmentation is used, value of the padding bits (0 or
1).

A Proﬁle may deﬁne a delay to be added after each SCHC message transmission for compliance
with local regulations or other constraints imposed by the applications.

•

In some LPWAN technologies, as part of energy-saving techniques, Downlink transmission is
only possible immediately after an Uplink transmission. In order to avoid potentially high
delay in the Downlink transmission of a fragmented SCHC Packet, the SCHC Fragment
receiver may perform an Uplink transmission as soon as possible after reception of a SCHC
Fragment that is not the last one. Such Uplink transmission may be triggered by the L2 (e.g.,
an L2 ACK sent in response to a SCHC Fragment encapsulated in a L2 PDU that requires an
L2 ACK) or it may be triggered from an upper layer. See Appendix F.

•

the following parameters need to be addressed in documents other than this one but not
necessarily in the LPWAN technology-speciﬁc documents:

◦

◦

The way the Contexts are provisioned.

The way the Rules are generated.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 68

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Appendix E.  Supporting Multiple Window Sizes for
Fragmentation

For ACK-Always or ACK-on-Error, implementers may opt to support a single window size or
multiple window sizes. The latter, when feasible, may provide performance optimizations. For
example, a large WINDOW_SIZE should be used for packets that need to be split into a large
number of tiles. However, when the number of tiles required to carry a packet is low, a smaller
WINDOW_SIZE and, thus, a shorter Bitmap, may be suﬃcient to provide reception status on all
tiles. If multiple window sizes are supported, the RuleID signals what WINDOW_SIZE is in use for
a speciﬁc packet transmission.

Appendix F.  ACK-Always and ACK-on-Error on Quasi-
Bidirectional Links

The ACK-Always and ACK-on-Error modes of SCHC F/R are bidirectional protocols: they require a
feedback path from the reassembler to the fragmenter.

Some LPWAN technologies provide quasi-bidirectional connectivity, whereby a Downlink
transmission from the Network Infrastructure can only take place right after an Uplink
transmission by the Dev.

When using SCHC F/R to send fragmented SCHC Packets Downlink over these quasi-bidirectional
links, the following situation may arise: if an Uplink SCHC ACK is lost, the SCHC ACK REQ
message by the sender could be stuck indeﬁnitely in the Downlink queue at the Network
Infrastructure, waiting for a transmission opportunity.

There are many ways by which this deadlock can be avoided. The Dev application might be
sending recurring Uplink messages such as keep-alive, or the Dev application stack might be
sending other recurring Uplink messages as part of its operation. However, these are out of the
control of this generic SCHC speciﬁcation.

In order to cope with quasi-bidirectional links, a SCHC-over-foo speciﬁcation may want to amend
the SCHC F/R speciﬁcation to add a timer-based retransmission of the SCHC ACK. Below is an
example of the suggested behavior for ACK-Always mode. Because it is an example,
language is deliberately not used here.

[RFC2119]

For Downlink transmission of a fragmented SCHC Packet in ACK-Always mode, the SCHC
Fragment receiver may support timer-based SCHC ACK retransmission. In this mechanism, the
SCHC Fragment receiver initializes and starts a timer (the UplinkACK Timer) after the
transmission of a SCHC ACK, except when the SCHC ACK is sent in response to the last SCHC
Fragment of a packet (All-1 fragment). In the latter case, the SCHC Fragment receiver does not
start a timer after transmission of the SCHC ACK.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 69

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

If, after transmission of a SCHC ACK that is not an All-1 fragment, and before expiration of the
corresponding UplinkACK timer, the SCHC Fragment receiver receives a SCHC Fragment that
belongs to the current window (e.g., a missing SCHC Fragment from the current window) or to
the next window, the UplinkACK timer for the SCHC ACK is stopped. However, if the UplinkACK
timer expires, the SCHC ACK is resent and the UplinkACK timer is reinitialized and restarted.

The default initial value for the UplinkACK Timer, as well as the maximum number of retries for
a speciﬁc SCHC ACK, denoted MAX_ACK_REQUESTS, is to be deﬁned in a Proﬁle. The initial value
of the UplinkACK timer is expected to be greater than that of the Retransmission timer, in order
to make sure that a (buﬀered) SCHC Fragment to be retransmitted ﬁnds an opportunity for that
transmission. One exception to this recommendation is the special case of the All-1 SCHC
Fragment transmission.

When the SCHC Fragment sender transmits the All-1 SCHC Fragment, it starts its Retransmission
Timer with a large timeout value (e.g., several times that of the initial UplinkACK Timer). If a
SCHC ACK is received before expiration of this timer, the SCHC Fragment sender retransmits any
lost SCHC Fragments as reported by the SCHC ACK, or if the SCHC ACK conﬁrms successful
reception of all SCHC Fragments of the last window, the transmission of the fragmented SCHC
Packet is considered complete. If the timer expires, and no SCHC ACK has been received since the
start of the timer, the SCHC Fragment sender assumes that the All-1 SCHC Fragment has been
successfully received (and possibly, the last SCHC ACK has been lost: this mechanism assumes
that the Retransmission Timer for the All-1 SCHC Fragment is long enough to allow several SCHC
ACK retries if the All-1 SCHC Fragment has not been received by the SCHC Fragment receiver,
and it also assumes that it is unlikely that several ACKs become all lost).

Acknowledgements

,

,

Sergio Aguilar Romero David Black Carsten Bormann

Thanks to (in alphabetical order)
Deborah Brungard Brian Carpenter Philippe Clavier Alissa Cooper Roman Danyliw Daniel
Ducuara Beltran Diego Dujovne Eduardo Ingles Sanchez Rahul Jadhav Benjamin Kaduk
Arunprabhu Kandasamy Suresh Krishnan Mirja Kuehlewind Barry Leiba Sergio Lopez Bernal
Antoni Markovski Alexey Melnikov Georgios Papadopoulos Alexander Pelov Charles Perkins
,
Edgar Ramos Alvaro Retana Adam Roach Shoichi Sakane Joseph Salowey Pascal Thubert
, and
Eric Vyncke

 for useful design considerations, reviews and comments.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

 has been funded in part by the Spanish Government (Ministerio de Educacion,

Carles Gomez
Cultura y Deporte) through the Jose Castillejo grant CAS15/00336 and by the ERDF and the
Spanish Government through project TEC2016-79988-P. Part of his contribution to this work has
been carried out during his stay as a visiting scholar at the Computer Laboratory of the
University of Cambridge.

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 70

RFC 8724

LPWAN SCHC

April 2020

Authors' Addresses

Ana Minaburo
Acklio
1137A avenue des Champs Blancs
35510 Cesson-Sevigne Cedex
France
Email:

 ana@ackl.io

Laurent Toutain
IMT Atlantique
2 rue de la Chataigneraie
CS 17607
35576 Cesson-Sevigne Cedex
France
Email:

 Laurent.Toutain@imt-atlantique.fr

Carles Gomez
Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya
C/Esteve Terradas, 7
08860 Castelldefels
Spain
Email:

 carlesgo@entel.upc.edu

Dominique Barthel
Orange Labs
28 chemin du Vieux Chene
38243 Meylan
France
Email:

 dominique.barthel@orange.com

Juan Carlos Zuniga
SIGFOX
425 rue Jean Rostand
31670 Labege
France
Email:

 JuanCarlos.Zuniga@sigfox.com

Minaburo, et al.

Standards Track

Page 71

