Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8981
4941
Standards Track
February 2021
2070-1721
F. Gont
SI6 Networks

S. Krishnan
Kaloom

T. Narten

R. Draves
Microsoft Research

RFC 8981
Temporary Address Extensions for Stateless Address
Autoconﬁguration in IPv6

Abstract

This document describes an extension to IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconﬁguration that causes
hosts to generate temporary addresses with randomized interface identiﬁers for each preﬁx
advertised with autoconﬁguration enabled. Changing addresses over time limits the window of
time during which eavesdroppers and other information collectors may trivially perform
address-based network-activity correlation when the same address is employed for multiple
transactions by the same host. Additionally, it reduces the window of exposure of a host as being
accessible via an address that becomes revealed as a result of active communication. This
document obsoletes RFC 4941.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8981

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

1.2.  Problem Statement

2.  Background

2.1.  Extended Use of the Same Identiﬁer

2.2.  Possible Approaches

3.  Protocol Description

3.1.  Design Guidelines

3.2.  Assumptions

3.3.  Generation of Randomized IIDs

3.3.1.  Simple Randomized IIDs

3.3.2.  Generation of IIDs with Pseudorandom Functions

3.4.  Generating Temporary Addresses

3.5.  Expiration of Temporary Addresses

3.6.  Regeneration of Temporary Addresses

3.7.  Implementation Considerations

3.8.  Deﬁned Protocol Parameters and Conﬁguration Variables

4.  Implications of Changing IIDs

5.  Signiﬁcant Changes from RFC 4941

6.  Future Work

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 speciﬁes Stateless Address Autoconﬁguration (SLAAC) for IPv6, which typically results

[RFC4862]
in hosts conﬁguring one or more "stable" IPv6 addresses composed of a network preﬁx
advertised by a local router and a locally generated interface identiﬁer (IID). The security and
privacy implications of such addresses have been discussed in detail in
,
,
[RFC7721] [RFC7217]
and
addresses that can help mitigate some of the aforementioned issues. This document is a revision
of RFC 4941 and formally obsoletes it. Section 5 describes the changes from

. This document speciﬁes an extension to SLAAC for generating temporary

[RFC4941]
.

[RFC7707]

The default address selection for IPv6 has been speciﬁed in
determination as to whether to use stable versus temporary addresses can only be made by an
application. For example, some applications may always want to use temporary addresses, while
others may want to use them only in some circumstances or not at all. An Application
Programming Interface (API) such as that speciﬁed in
 can enable individual
applications to indicate a preference for the use of temporary addresses.

. In some cases, the

[RFC5014]

[RFC6724]

Section 2 provides background information. Section 3 describes a procedure for generating
temporary addresses. Section 4 discusses implications of changing IIDs. Section 5 describes the
changes from

[RFC4941]

.

1.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The terms "public address", "stable address", "temporary address", "constant IID", "stable IID",
and "temporary IID" are to be interpreted as speciﬁed in

[RFC7721]
.

The term "global-scope addresses" is used in this document to collectively refer to "Global unicast
addresses" as deﬁned in
, and not
to "globally reachable addresses" as deﬁned in

 and "Unique local addresses" as deﬁned in
[RFC8190]
.

[RFC4193]

[RFC4291]

1.2.  Problem Statement

Addresses generated using SLAAC
may remain stable over time. Anytime a ﬁxed identiﬁer is used in multiple contexts, it becomes
possible to correlate seemingly unrelated activity using this identiﬁer.

 contain an embedded interface identiﬁer, which

[RFC4862]

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

The correlation can be performed by:

•

An attacker who is in the path between the host in question and the peer(s) to which it is
communicating, who can view the IPv6 addresses present in the datagrams.

•

An attacker who can access the communication logs of the peers with which the host has
communicated.

Since the identiﬁer is embedded within the IPv6 address, it cannot be hidden. This document
proposes a solution to this issue by generating interface identiﬁers that vary over time.

Note that an attacker, who is on path, may be able to perform signiﬁcant correlation based on:

•

The payload contents of unencrypted packets on the wire.

•

The characteristics of the packets, such as packet size and timing.

Use of temporary addresses will not prevent such correlation, nor will it prevent an on-link
observer (e.g., the host's default router) from tracking all the host's addresses.

2.  Background

This section discusses the problem in more detail, provides context for evaluating the
signiﬁcance of the concerns in speciﬁc environments, and makes comparisons with existing
practices.

2.1.  Extended Use of the Same Identiﬁer

The use of a non-changing IID to form addresses is a speciﬁc instance of the more general case
where a constant identiﬁer is reused over an extended period of time and in multiple
independent activities. Anytime the same identiﬁer is used in multiple contexts, it becomes
possible for that identiﬁer to be used to correlate seemingly unrelated activity. For example, a
network sniﬀer placed strategically on a link traversed by all traﬃc to/from a particular host
could keep track of which destinations a host communicated with and at what times. In some
cases, such information can be used to infer things, such as what hours an employee was active,
when someone is at home, etc. Although it might appear that changing an address regularly in
such environments would be desirable to lessen privacy concerns, it should be noted that the
network-preﬁx portion of an address also serves as a constant identiﬁer. All hosts at, say, a home
would have the same network preﬁx, which identiﬁes the topological location of those hosts. This
has implications for privacy, though not at the same granularity as the concern that this
document addresses. Speciﬁcally, all hosts within a home could be grouped together for the
purposes of collecting information. If the network contains a very small number of hosts -- say,
just one -- changing just the IID will not enhance privacy, since the preﬁx serves as a constant
identiﬁer.

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

One of the requirements for correlating seemingly unrelated activities is the use (and reuse) of
an identiﬁer that is recognizable over time within diﬀerent contexts. IP addresses provide one
obvious example, but there are more. For example:

•

Many hosts also have DNS names associated with their addresses, in which case, the DNS
name serves as a similar identiﬁer. Although the DNS name associated with an address is
more work to obtain (it may require a DNS query), the information is often readily available.
In such cases, changing the address on a host over time would do little to address the
concerns raised in this document, unless the DNS name is also changed at the same time (see
Section 4).

•

Web browsers and servers typically exchange "cookies" with each other
allow web servers to correlate a current activity with a previous activity. One common usage
is to send back targeted advertising to a user by using the cookie supplied by the browser to
identify what earlier queries had been made (e.g., for what type of information). Based on
the earlier queries, advertisements can be targeted to match the (assumed) interests of the
end user.

[RFC6265]

. Cookies

The use of a constant identiﬁer within an address is of special concern, because addresses are a
fundamental requirement of communication and cannot easily be hidden from eavesdroppers
and other parties. Even when higher layers encrypt their payloads, addresses in packet headers
appear in the clear. Consequently, if a mobile host (e.g., laptop) accessed the network from
several diﬀerent locations, an eavesdropper might be able to track the movement of that mobile
host from place to place, even if the upper-layer payloads were encrypted.

Changing addresses over time limits the time window over which eavesdroppers and other
information collectors may trivially correlate network activity when the same address is
employed for multiple transactions by the same host. Additionally, it reduces the window of
exposure during which a host is accessible via an address that becomes revealed as a result of
active communication.

The security and privacy implications of IPv6 addresses are discussed in detail in
[RFC7707]

.
[RFC7217]

, and

[RFC7721]

,

2.2.  Possible Approaches

One approach, compatible with the SLAAC architecture, would be to change the IID portion of an
address over time. Changing the IID can make it more diﬃcult to look at the IP addresses in
independent transactions and identify which ones actually correspond to the same host, both in
the case where the routing-preﬁx portion of an address changes and when it does not.

Many hosts function as both clients and servers. In such cases, the host would need a name (e.g.,
a DNS domain name) for its use as a server. Whether the address stays ﬁxed or changes has little
impact on privacy, since the name remains constant and serves as a constant identiﬁer.
However, when acting as a client (e.g., initiating communication), such a host may want to vary
the addresses it uses. In such environments, one may need multiple addresses: a stable address

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

associated with the name, which is used to accept incoming connection requests from other
hosts, and a temporary address used to shield the identity of the client when it initiates
communication.

On the other hand, a host that functions only as a client may want to employ only temporary
addresses for public communication.

To make it diﬃcult to make educated guesses as to whether two diﬀerent IIDs belong to the same
host, the algorithm for generating alternate identiﬁers must include input that has an
unpredictable component from the perspective of the outside entities that are collecting
information.

3.  Protocol Description

The following subsections deﬁne the procedures for the generation of IPv6 temporary addresses.

3.1.  Design Guidelines

Temporary addresses observe the following properties:

1.

Temporary addresses are typically employed for initiating outgoing sessions.

2.

Temporary addresses are used for a short period of time (typically hours to days) and are
subsequently deprecated. Deprecated addresses can continue to be used for established
connections but are not used to initiate new connections.

3.

New temporary addresses are generated over time to replace temporary addresses that
expire (i.e., become deprecated and eventually invalidated).

4.

[RFC4862]

). The lifetime of an address should be further reduced when

Temporary addresses must have a limited lifetime (limited "valid lifetime" and "preferred
lifetime" from
privacy-meaningful events (such as a host attaching to a diﬀerent network, or the
regeneration of a new randomized Media Access Control (MAC) address) take place. The
lifetime of temporary addresses must be statistically diﬀerent for diﬀerent addresses, such
that it is hard to predict or infer when a new temporary address is generated or correlate a
newly generated address with an existing one.

5.

By default, one address is generated for each preﬁx advertised by SLAAC. The resulting
interface identiﬁers must be statistically diﬀerent when addresses are conﬁgured for
diﬀerent preﬁxes or diﬀerent network interfaces. This means that, given two addresses, it
must be diﬃcult for an outside entity to infer whether the addresses correspond to the same
host or network interface.

6.

It must be diﬃcult for an outside entity to predict the interface identiﬁers that will be
employed for temporary addresses, even with knowledge of the algorithm/method employed
to generate them and/or knowledge of the IIDs previously employed for other temporary
addresses. These IIDs must be semantically opaque
speciﬁc patterns.

 and must not follow any

[RFC7136]

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

3.2.  Assumptions

The following algorithm assumes that, for a given temporary address, an implementation can
determine the preﬁx from which it was generated. When a temporary address is deprecated, a
new temporary address is generated. The speciﬁc valid and preferred lifetimes for the new
address are dependent on the corresponding lifetime values set for the preﬁx from which it was
generated.

[RFC6724]

Finally, this document assumes that, when a host initiates outgoing communications, temporary
addresses can be given preference over stable addresses (if available), when the device is
 mandates that implementations provide a mechanism that allows
conﬁgured to do so.
an application to conﬁgure its preference for temporary addresses over stable addresses. It also
allows an implementation to prefer temporary addresses by default, so that the connections
initiated by the host can use temporary addresses without requiring application-speciﬁc
enablement. This document also assumes that an API will exist that allows individual
applications to indicate whether they prefer to use temporary or stable addresses and override
the system defaults (see, for example,

[RFC5014]

).

3.3.  Generation of Randomized IIDs

The following subsections specify example algorithms for generating temporary IIDs that follow
the guidelines in Section 3.1 of this document. The algorithm speciﬁed in Section 3.3.1 assumes a
pseudorandom number generator (PRNG) is available on the system. The algorithm speciﬁed in
Section 3.3.2 allows for code reuse by hosts that implement

[RFC7217]
.

3.3.1.  Simple Randomized IIDs

One approach is to select a pseudorandom number of the appropriate length. A host employing
this algorithm should generate IIDs as follows:

1.

2.

3.

Obtain a random number from a PRNG that can produce random numbers of at least as
many bits as required for the IID (please see the next step).
requirements for security.

[RFC4086]

 speciﬁes randomness

The IID is obtained by taking as many bits from the random number obtained in the
previous step as necessary. See
the IID). See also
Note: there are no special bits in an IID

 for a discussion of the privacy implications of the IID length.

 for the necessary number of bits (i.e., the length of

[RFC7421]

[RFC7136]

[RFC7136]

.

MUST

 be compared against the reserved IPv6 IIDs

The resulting IID
RESERVED-IID]
 and against those IIDs already employed in an address of the same network
interface and the same network preﬁx. In the event that an unacceptable identiﬁer has been
generated, a new IID should be generated by repeating the algorithm from the ﬁrst step.

[RFC5453] [IANA-

3.3.2.  Generation of IIDs with Pseudorandom Functions

The algorithm in
beneﬁt of this is that a host could employ a single algorithm for generating stable and temporary
addresses by employing appropriate parameters.

 can be augmented for the generation of temporary addresses. The

[RFC7217]

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

Hosts would employ the following algorithm for generating the temporary IID:

1.

Compute a random identiﬁer with the expression:

RID = F(Preﬁx, Net_Iface, Network_ID, Time, DAD_Counter, secret_key)

Where:

RID:

Random Identiﬁer

F():

MUST

MUST NOT

 be computable from the outside (without

A pseudorandom function (PRF) that
 also be diﬃcult to reverse, such that it resists
knowledge of the secret key). F()
attempts to obtain the secret_key, even when given samples of the output of F() and
knowledge or control of the other input parameters. F()
 produce an output of at
least as many bits as required for the IID. BLAKE3 (256-bit key, arbitrary-length output)
[BLAKE3]
keyed-hash message authentication code (HMAC)
one possible option for such an implementation alternative. Note: use of HMAC-MD5
[RFC1321]

 is one possible option for F(). Alternatively, F() could be implemented with a

 is considered unacceptable for F()

. HMAC-SHA-256

[FIPS-SHS]

[RFC2104]

[RFC6151]

SHOULD

.

 is

Preﬁx:

The preﬁx to be used for SLAAC, as learned from an ICMPv6 Router Advertisement
message.

Net_Iface:

The MAC address corresponding to the underlying network-interface card, in the case the
link uses IEEE 802 link-layer identiﬁers. Employing the MAC address for this parameter
(over the other suggested options in
randomized MAC address will result in a diﬀerent temporary address.

) means that the regeneration of a

[RFC7217]

Network_ID:

Some network-speciﬁc data that identiﬁes the subnet to which this interface is attached --
for example, the IEEE 802.11 Service Set Identiﬁer (SSID) corresponding to the network to
which this interface is associated. Additionally, "Simple Procedures for Detecting Network
Attachment in IPv6" ("Simple DNA")
generate a Network_ID parameter. This parameter
"Network_ID" is available.

 describes ideas that could be leveraged to
 be employed if some form of

[RFC6059]

SHOULD

Time:

An implementation-dependent representation of time. One possible example is the
representation in UNIX-like systems
[OPEN-GROUP]
number of seconds elapsed since the Epoch (00:00:00 Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), 1
January 1970). The addition of the "Time" argument results in (statistically) diﬀerent IIDs
over time.

, which measure time in terms of the

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

DAD_Counter:

A counter that is employed to resolve the conﬂict where an unacceptable identiﬁer has
been generated. This can be result of Duplicate Address Detection (DAD), or step 3 below.

secret_key:

MUST

 be initialized to a pseudorandom number (see

A secret key that is not known by the attacker. The secret key
bits. It
requirements for security) when the operating system is "bootstrapped". The secret_key
 be employed for any other purpose than the one discussed in this section. For
MUST NOT
example, implementations
 employ the same secret_key for the generation of
stable addresses
[RFC7217]

MUST NOT
 and the generation of temporary addresses via this algorithm.

 be of at least 128
 for randomness

SHOULD
[RFC4086]

2.

3.

The IID is ﬁnally obtained by taking as many bits from the RID value (computed in the
previous step) as necessary, starting from the least signiﬁcant bit. See
necessary number of bits (i.e., the length of the IID). See also
the privacy implications of the IID length. Note: there are no special bits in an IID

[RFC7421]

[RFC7136]

 for the

 for a discussion of

[RFC7136]

.

MUST

 be compared against the reserved IPv6 IIDs

The resulting IID
 and against those IIDs already employed in an address of the same network
RESERVED-IID]
interface and the same network preﬁx. In the event that an unacceptable identiﬁer has been
generated, the DAD_Counter should be incremented by 1, and the algorithm should be
restarted from the ﬁrst step.

[RFC5453] [IANA-

3.4.  Generating Temporary Addresses

 describes the steps for generating a link-local address when an interface becomes

[RFC4862]
enabled, as well as the steps for generating addresses for other scopes. This document extends
[RFC4862]
carrying a preﬁx for the purposes of address autoconﬁguration (i.e., the A bit is set), the host
MUST

 as follows. When processing a Router Advertisement with a Preﬁx Information option

 perform the following steps:

1.

Process the Preﬁx Information option as speciﬁed in
existing temporary addresses, with the overall constraint that no temporary addresses
should ever remain "valid" or "preferred" for a time longer than (TEMP_VALID_LIFETIME) or
(TEMP_PREFERRED_LIFETIME - DESYNC_FACTOR), respectively. The conﬁguration variables
TEMP_VALID_LIFETIME and TEMP_PREFERRED_LIFETIME correspond to the maximum
valid lifetime and the maximum preferred lifetime of temporary addresses, respectively.

, adjusting the lifetimes of

[RFC4862]

Note:

DESYNC_FACTOR is the value computed when the address was created (see step 4 below).

2.

One way an implementation can satisfy the above constraints is to associate with each
temporary address a creation time (called CREATION_TIME) that indicates the time at which
the address was created. When updating the preferred lifetime of an existing temporary
address, it would be set to expire at whichever time is earlier: the time indicated by the
received lifetime or (CREATION_TIME + TEMP_PREFERRED_LIFETIME - DESYNC_FACTOR). A
similar approach can be used with the valid lifetime.

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

Note:

DESYNC_FACTOR is the value computed when the address was created (see step 4 below).

3.

If the host has not conﬁgured any temporary address for the corresponding preﬁx, the host
SHOULD

 create a new temporary address for such preﬁx.

Note:

For example, a host might implement preﬁx-speciﬁc policies such as not conﬁguring
[RFC4193]
temporary addresses for the Unique Local IPv6 Unicast Addresses (ULAs)
preﬁx.

4.

5.

6.

7.

When creating a temporary address, DESYNC_FACTOR
with the newly created address, and the address lifetime values
corresponding preﬁx as follows:

MUST

 be computed and associated

MUST

 be derived from the

◦

◦

Its valid lifetime is the lower of the Valid Lifetime of the preﬁx and
TEMP_VALID_LIFETIME.

Its preferred lifetime is the lower of the Preferred Lifetime of the preﬁx and
TEMP_PREFERRED_LIFETIME - DESYNC_FACTOR.

A temporary address is created only if this calculated preferred lifetime is greater than
REGEN_ADVANCE time units. In particular, an implementation
address with a zero preferred lifetime.

MUST NOT

 create a temporary

New temporary addresses
was received. Section 3.3 of this document speciﬁes some sample algorithms for generating
the randomized IID.

 be created by appending a randomized IID to the preﬁx that

MUST

MUST

MUST

 perform DAD on the generated temporary address. If DAD indicates the
 generate a new randomized IID and repeat the

The host
address is already in use, the host
previous steps as appropriate (starting from step 4), up to TEMP_IDGEN_RETRIES times. If,
after TEMP_IDGEN_RETRIES consecutive attempts, the host is unable to generate a unique
 log a system error and
temporary address, the host
temporary address for the given preﬁx for the duration of the host's attachment to the
network via this interface. This allows hosts to recover from occasional DAD failures or
otherwise log the recurrent address collisions.

SHOULD NOT

MUST

 attempt to generate a

3.5.  Expiration of Temporary Addresses

MUST

When a temporary address becomes deprecated, a new one
 be generated. This is done by
repeating the actions described in Section 3.4, starting at step 4). Note that, in normal operation,
except for the transient period when a temporary address is being regenerated, at most one
temporary address per preﬁx should be in a nondeprecated state at any given time on a given
interface. Note that if a temporary address becomes deprecated as result of processing a Preﬁx
 be
Information option with a zero preferred lifetime, then a new temporary address
generated (in response to the same Preﬁx Information option). To ensure that a preferred
temporary address is always available, a new temporary address
before its predecessor is deprecated. This is to allow suﬃcient time to avoid race conditions in

MUST NOT

SHOULD

 be regenerated slightly

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

the case where generating a new temporary address is not instantaneous, such as when DAD
must be performed. The host
REGEN_ADVANCE time units before a temporary address is deprecated.

 start the process of address regeneration

SHOULD

As an optional optimization, an implementation
that is not in use by applications or upper layers, as detailed in Section 6.

MAY

 remove a deprecated temporary address

3.6.  Regeneration of Temporary Addresses

The frequency at which temporary addresses change depends on how a device is being used (e.g.,
how frequently it initiates new communication) and the concerns of the end user. The most
egregious privacy concerns appear to involve addresses used for long periods of time (from
weeks to years). The more frequently an address changes, the less feasible collecting or
coordinating information keyed on IIDs becomes. Moreover, the cost of collecting information
and attempting to correlate it based on IIDs will only be justiﬁed if enough addresses contain
non-changing identiﬁers to make it worthwhile. Thus, having large numbers of clients change
their address on a daily or weekly basis is likely to be suﬃcient to alleviate most privacy
concerns.

There are also client costs associated with having a large number of addresses associated with a
host (e.g., in doing address lookups, the need to join many multicast groups, etc.). Thus, changing
addresses frequently (e.g., every few minutes) may have performance implications.

SHOULD

 generate new temporary addresses over time. This can

Hosts following this speciﬁcation
be achieved by generating a new temporary address REGEN_ADVANCE time units before a
temporary address becomes deprecated. As described above, this produces addresses with a
preferred lifetime no larger than TEMP_PREFERRED_LIFETIME. The value DESYNC_FACTOR is a
random value computed when a temporary address is generated; it ensures that clients do not
generate new addresses at a ﬁxed frequency and that clients do not synchronize with each other
and generate new addresses at exactly the same time. When the preferred lifetime expires, a
new temporary address
at step 4).

 be generated using the algorithm speciﬁed in Section 3.4 (starting

MUST

Because the frequency at which it is appropriate to generate new addresses varies from one
environment to another, implementations
SHOULD
the frequency at which addresses are regenerated. The default value is given in
TEMP_PREFERRED_LIFETIME and is one day. In addition, the exact time at which to invalidate a
temporary address depends on how applications are used by end users. Thus, the suggested
default value of two days (TEMP_VALID_LIFETIME) may not be appropriate in all environments.
Implementations
values.

 provide end users with the ability to override both of these default

 provide end users with the ability to change

SHOULD

Finally, when an interface connects to a new (diﬀerent) link, existing temporary addresses for
the corresponding interface
for use on the new link, using the algorithm in Section 3.4. If a device moves from one link to
another, generating new temporary addresses ensures that the device uses diﬀerent randomized
IIDs for the temporary addresses associated with the two links, making it more diﬃcult to

 be removed, and new temporary addresses

 be generated

MUST

MUST

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

correlate addresses from the two diﬀerent links as being from the same host. The host
MAY
follow any process available to it to determine that the link change has occurred. One such
process is described by "Simple DNA"
. Detecting link changes would prevent link
[RFC6059]
down/up events from causing temporary addresses to be (unnecessarily) regenerated.

3.7.  Implementation Considerations

Devices implementing this speciﬁcation
or disable the use of temporary addresses. In addition, a site might wish to disable the use of
temporary addresses in order to simplify network debugging and operations. Consequently,
implementations
the use of temporary addresses.

 provide a way for trusted system administrators to enable or disable

 provide a way for the end user to explicitly enable

SHOULD

MUST

 preﬁxes while still generating temporary addresses for all other preﬁxes advertised

Additionally, sites might wish to selectively enable or disable the use of temporary addresses for
some preﬁxes. For example, a site might wish to disable temporary-address generation for ULA
[RFC4193]
via PIOs for address conﬁguration. Another site might wish to enable temporary-address
generation only for the preﬁxes 2001:db8:1::/48 and 2001:db8:2::/48 while disabling it for all
other preﬁxes. To support this behavior, implementations
 provide a way to enable and
disable generation of temporary addresses for speciﬁc preﬁx subranges. This per-preﬁx setting
 override the global settings on the host with respect to the speciﬁed preﬁx subranges.
SHOULD
Note that the per-preﬁx setting can be applied at any granularity, and not necessarily on a per-
subnet basis.

SHOULD

3.8.  Deﬁned Protocol Parameters and Conﬁguration Variables

Protocol parameters and conﬁguration variables deﬁned in this document include:

TEMP_VALID_LIFETIME

Default value: 2 days. Users should be able to override the default value.

TEMP_PREFERRED_LIFETIME

Default value: 1 day. Users should be able to override the default value. Note: The
TEMP_PREFERRED_LIFETIME value
to avoid the pathological case where an address is employed for new communications but
becomes invalid in less than 1 second, disrupting those communications.

 be smaller than the TEMP_VALID_LIFETIME value,

MUST

REGEN_ADVANCE

2 + (TEMP_IDGEN_RETRIES * DupAddrDetectTransmits * RetransTimer / 1000)

Rationale: This parameter is speciﬁed as a function of other protocol parameters, to
account for the time possibly spent in DAD in the worst-case scenario of
TEMP_IDGEN_RETRIES. This prevents the pathological case where the generation of
a new temporary address is not started with enough anticipation, such that a new
preferred address is generated before the currently preferred temporary address
becomes deprecated.

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

[RFC4862]

RetransTimer is speciﬁed in
in
expression employs the constant "1000", such that REGEN_ADVANCE is expressed in
seconds.

. Since RetransTimer is speciﬁed in units of milliseconds, this

, while DupAddrDetectTransmits is speciﬁed

[RFC4861]

MAX_DESYNC_FACTOR

0.4 * TEMP_PREFERRED_LIFETIME. Upper bound on DESYNC_FACTOR.

Rationale: Setting MAX_DESYNC_FACTOR to 0.4 TEMP_PREFERRED_LIFETIME results
in addresses that have statistically diﬀerent lifetimes, and a maximum of three
concurrent temporary addresses when the default values speciﬁed in this section
are employed.

DESYNC_FACTOR

A random value within the range 0 - MAX_DESYNC_FACTOR. It is computed each time a
temporary address is generated, and is associated with the corresponding address. It
smaller than (TEMP_PREFERRED_LIFETIME - REGEN_ADVANCE).

MUST

 be

TEMP_IDGEN_RETRIES
Default value: 3

4.  Implications of Changing IIDs

The desire to protect individual privacy can conﬂict with the desire to eﬀectively maintain and
debug a network. Having clients use addresses that change over time will make it more diﬃcult
to track down and isolate operational problems. For example, when looking at packet traces, it
could become more diﬃcult to determine whether one is seeing behavior caused by a single
errant host or a number of them.

[RFC7934]

It is currently recommended that network deployments provide multiple IPv6 addresses from
each preﬁx to general-purpose hosts
. However, in some scenarios, use of a large
number of IPv6 addresses may have negative implications on network devices that need to
maintain entries for each IPv6 address in some data structures (e.g., SAVI
example, concurrent active use of multiple IPv6 addresses will increase Neighbor Discovery
traﬃc if Neighbor Caches in network devices are not large enough to store all addresses on the
link. This can impact performance and energy eﬃciency on networks on which multicast is
expensive (see e.g.,
). Additionally, some network-security devices might
incorrectly infer IPv6 address forging if temporary addresses are regenerated at a high rate.

[MCAST-PROBLEMS]

[RFC7039]

). For

The use of temporary addresses may cause unexpected diﬃculties with some applications. For
example, some servers refuse to accept communications from clients for which they cannot map
the IP address into a DNS name. That is, they perform a DNS PTR query to determine the DNS
name corresponding to an IPv6 address, and may then also perform a AAAA query on the
returned name to verify it maps back into the same address. Consequently, clients not properly

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

registered in the DNS may be unable to access some services. However, a host's DNS name (if
non-changing) would serve as a constant identiﬁer. The wide deployment of the extension
described in this document could challenge the practice of inverse-DNS-based "validation", which
has little validity, though it is widely implemented. In order to meet server challenges, hosts
could register temporary addresses in the DNS using random names (for example, a string
version of the random address itself), albeit at the expense of increased complexity.

In addition, some applications may not behave robustly if an address becomes invalid while it is
still in use by the application or if the application opens multiple sessions and expects them to all
use the same address.

 employed a randomized temporary IID for generating a set of temporary addresses,

[RFC4941]
such that temporary addresses conﬁgured at a given time for multiple SLAAC preﬁxes would
employ the same IID. Sharing the same IID among multiple addresses allowed a host to join only
one solicited-node multicast group per temporary address set.

This document requires that the IIDs of all temporary addresses on a host are statistically
diﬀerent from each other. This means that when a network employs multiple preﬁxes, each
temporary address of a set will result in a diﬀerent solicited-node multicast address, and, thus,
the number of multicast groups that a host must join becomes a function of the number of SLAAC
preﬁxes employed for generating temporary addresses.

Thus, a network that employs multiple preﬁxes may require hosts to join more multicast groups
than in the case of implementations of RFC 4941. If the number of multicast groups were large
enough, a host might need to resort to setting the network interface card to promiscuous mode.
This could cause the host to process more packets than strictly necessary and might have a
negative impact on battery life and system performance in general.

We note that since this document reduces the default TEMP_VALID_LIFETIME from 7 days (in
) to 2 days, the number of concurrent temporary addresses per SLAAC preﬁx will be
[RFC4941]
smaller than for RFC 4941 implementations; thus, the number of multicast groups for a network
that employs, say, between 1 and 3 preﬁxes, will be similar to the number of such groups for RFC
4941 implementations.

Implementations concerned with the maximum number of multicast groups that would be
required to join as a result of conﬁgured addresses, or the overall number of conﬁgured
addresses, should consider enforcing implementation-speciﬁc limits on, e.g., the maximum
number of conﬁgured addresses, the maximum number of SLAAC preﬁxes that are employed for
autoconﬁguration, and/or the maximum ratio for TEMP_VALID_LIFETIME/
TEMP_PREFERRED_LIFETIME (which ultimately controls the approximate number of concurrent
temporary addresses per SLAAC preﬁx). Many of these conﬁguration limits are readily available
in SLAAC and RFC 4941 implementations. We note that these conﬁgurable limits are meant to
prevent pathological behaviors (as opposed to simply limiting the usage of IPv6 addresses), since
IPv6 implementations are expected to leverage the usage of multiple addresses

.
[RFC7934]

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

5.  Signiﬁcant Changes from RFC 4941

This section summarizes the substantive changes in this document relative to RFC 4941.

Broadly speaking, this document introduces the following changes:

•

Addresses a number of ﬂaws in the algorithm for generating temporary addresses. The
aforementioned ﬂaws include the use of MD5 for computing the temporary IIDs, and reusing
the same IID for multiple preﬁxes (see

 for further details).

[RAID2015]

[RFC7721]

 and

•

Allows hosts to employ only temporary addresses.
addresses were conﬁgured in addition to stable addresses. This document does not imply or
require the conﬁguration of stable addresses; thus, implementations can now conﬁgure both
stable and temporary addresses or temporary addresses only.

 assumed that temporary

[RFC4941]

•

Removes the recommendation that temporary addresses be disabled by default. This is in
line with BCP 188 (

) and also with BCP 204 (

[RFC7258]

[RFC7934]

).

•

Reduces the default maximum valid lifetime for temporary addresses
(TEMP_VALID_LIFETIME). TEMP_VALID_LIFETIME has been reduced from 1 week to 2 days,
decreasing the typical number of concurrent temporary addresses from 7 to 3. This reduces
the possible stress on network elements (see Section 4 for further details).

•

DESYNC_FACTOR is computed each time a temporary address is generated and is associated
with the corresponding temporary address, such that each temporary address has a
statistically diﬀerent preferred lifetime, and thus temporary addresses are not generated at
any speciﬁc frequency.

•

Changes the requirement to not try to regenerate temporary addresses upon
TEMP_IDGEN_RETRIES consecutive DAD failures from "

MUST NOT

" to "

SHOULD NOT

".

•

The discussion about the security and privacy implications of diﬀerent address generation
techniques has been replaced with references to recent work in this area (
[RFC7721]

[RFC7217]

[RFC7707]

, and

).

,

•

This document incorporates errata submitted (at the time of writing) for
Bohac

Alfred Hoenes
.

 and

[RFC4941]

 by

Jiri

6.  Future Work

An implementation might want to keep track of which addresses are being used by upper layers
so as to be able to remove a deprecated temporary address from internal data structures once no
upper-layer protocols are using it (but not before). This is in contrast to current approaches,
where addresses are removed from an interface when they become invalid
independent of whether or not upper-layer protocols are still using them. For TCP connections,
such information is available in control blocks. For UDP-based applications, it may be the case
that only the applications have knowledge about what addresses are actually in use.
Consequently, an implementation generally will need to use heuristics in deciding when an
address is no longer in use.

[RFC4862]
,

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

8.  Security Considerations

If a very small number of hosts (say, only one) use a given preﬁx for extended periods of time,
just changing the interface-identiﬁer part of the address may not be suﬃcient to mitigate
address-based network-activity correlation, since the preﬁx acts as a constant identiﬁer. The
procedures described in this document are most eﬀective when the preﬁx is reasonably
nonstatic or used by a fairly large number of hosts. Additionally, if a temporary address is used
in a session where the user authenticates, any notion of "privacy" for that address is
compromised for the party or parties that receive the authentication information.

While this document discusses ways to limit the lifetime of interface identiﬁers to reduce the
ability of attackers to perform address-based network-activity correlation, the method described
is believed to be ineﬀective against sophisticated forms of traﬃc analysis. To increase
eﬀectiveness, one may need to consider the use of more advanced techniques, such as onion
routing

[ONION]

.

Ingress ﬁltering has been and is being deployed as a means of preventing the use of spoofed
source addresses in Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks. In a network with a large
number of hosts, new temporary addresses are created at a fairly high rate. This might make it
diﬃcult for ingress-/egress-ﬁltering mechanisms to distinguish between legitimately changing
temporary addresses and spoofed source addresses, which are "in-preﬁx" (using a topologically
correct preﬁx and nonexistent interface identiﬁer). This can be addressed by using access-control
mechanisms on a per-address basis on the network ingress point -- though, as noted in Section 4,
there are corresponding costs for doing so.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4086]

[RFC4193]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D., Schiller, J., and S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, June 2005,

<https://

,

.

,

,

,

,
Hinden, R. and B. Haberman "Unique Local IPv6 Unicast Addresses" RFC 4193
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4193>
DOI 10.17487/RFC4193

,
, October 2005,

,

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

[RFC4291]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4862]

[RFC5453]

[RFC6724]

[RFC7136]

[RFC8174]

Hinden, R. and S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI
10.17487/RFC4291

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>
.

,
, February 2006,

,

Narten, T., Nordmark, E., Simpson, W., and H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
<https://
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, September 2007,

,

,

,

.

Thomson, S., Narten, T., and T. Jinmei "IPv6 Stateless Address
Autoconﬁguration" RFC 4862 DOI 10.17487/RFC4862
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4862>

,

,

.

, September 2007,

<https://

Krishnan, S. "Reserved IPv6 Interface Identiﬁers" RFC 5453 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5453

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5453>

, February 2009,

,

,

,

.

Thaler, D., Ed., Draves, R., Matsumoto, A., and T. Chown "Default Address
Selection for Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 6724 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6724

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6724>

, September 2012,

,

,

.

Carpenter, B. and S. Jiang "Signiﬁcance of IPv6 Interface Identiﬁers" RFC 7136
DOI 10.17487/RFC7136
rfc7136>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2014,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[BLAKE3]

[FIPS-SHS]

O'Connor, J., Aumasson, J. P., Neves, S., and Z. Wilcox-O'Hearn "BLAKE3: one
function, fast everywhere"

<https://blake3.io/>

, 2020,

,

.

,

NIST "Secure Hash Standard (SHS)" FIPS PUB 180-4 DOI 10.6028/
NIST.FIPS.180-4
NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf>

<https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/

, August 2015,

.

,

,

[IANA-RESERVED-IID]

IANA "Reserved IPv6 Interface Identiﬁers" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

assignments/ipv6-interface-ids>

.

[MCAST-PROBLEMS]

Perkins, C. E., McBride, M., Stanley, D., Kumari, W., and J. C. Zuniga

,
"Multicast Considerations over IEEE 802 Wireless Media" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-mboned-ieee802-mcast-problems-13
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-mboned-ieee802-mcast-problems-13>

,

.

, 4 February 2021,

,

[ONION]

Reed, M.G., Syverson, P.F., and D.M. Goldschlag "Proxies for Anonymous
Routing" Proceedings of the 12th Annual Computer Security Applications
Conference DOI 10.1109/CSAC.1996.569678
doi.org/10.1109/CSAC.1996.569678>

, December 1996,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

[OPEN-GROUP]

[RAID2015]

[RFC1321]

[RFC2104]

[RFC4941]

[RFC5014]

[RFC6059]

[RFC6151]

[RFC6265]

[RFC7039]

[RFC7217]

[RFC7258]

[RFC7421]

The Open Group "The Open Group Base Speciﬁcations Issue 7" Section 4.16

,

,

Seconds Since the Epoch IEEE Std 1003.1
, 2016,
,
onlinepubs/9699919799/basedefs/contents.html>

<http://pubs.opengroup.org/
.

,

Ullrich, J. and E.R. Weippl "Privacy is Not an Option: Attacking the IPv6 Privacy
Extension" International Symposium on Recent Advances in Intrusion Detection
(RAID)
Ullrich2015Privacy.pdf>

<https://publications.sba-research.org/publications/

, 2015,

,

.

Rivest, R. "The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm" RFC 1321 DOI 10.17487/
RFC1321

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1321>

,
, April 1992,

,

,

.

Krawczyk, H., Bellare, M., and R. Canetti "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message
Authentication" RFC 2104 DOI 10.17487/RFC2104
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2104>

, February 1997,

<https://

,

,

.

Narten, T., Draves, R., and S. Krishnan "Privacy Extensions for Stateless Address
Autoconﬁguration in IPv6" RFC 4941 DOI 10.17487/RFC4941
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4941>

, September 2007,

,
,

,

.

Nordmark, E., Chakrabarti, S., and J. Laganier "IPv6 Socket API for Source
Address Selection" RFC 5014 DOI 10.17487/RFC5014
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5014>

, September 2007,

,

,

.

,

<https://

Krishnan, S. and G. Daley "Simple Procedures for Detecting Network
Attachment in IPv6" RFC 6059 DOI 10.17487/RFC6059
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6059>

, November 2010,

,

,

.

,

<https://

Turner, S. and L. Chen "Updated Security Considerations for the MD5 Message-
,
Digest and the HMAC-MD5 Algorithms" RFC 6151 DOI 10.17487/RFC6151
2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6151>

, March

,

.

,

Barth, A. "HTTP State Management Mechanism" RFC 6265 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6265

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6265>

,
, April 2011,

,

,

.

Wu, J., Bi, J., Bagnulo, M., Baker, F., and C. Vogt, Ed. "Source Address Validation
,
Improvement (SAVI) Framework" RFC 7039 DOI 10.17487/RFC7039
2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7039>

, October

.

,

,

,

Gont, F. "A Method for Generating Semantically Opaque Interface Identiﬁers
with IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconﬁguration (SLAAC)" RFC 7217 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7217>
10.17487/RFC7217

, April 2014,

,

,

.

,
Farrell, S. and H. Tschofenig "Pervasive Monitoring Is an Attack" BCP 188 RFC
, May 2014,
,
7258 DOI 10.17487/RFC7258
rfc7258>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

.

,

,

Carpenter, B., Ed., Chown, T., Gont, F., Jiang, S., Petrescu, A., and A. Yourtchenko
"Analysis of the 64-bit Boundary in IPv6 Addressing" RFC 7421 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7421

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7421>

, January 2015,

,

,

.

,

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

[RFC7707]

Gont, F. and T. Chown "Network Reconnaissance in IPv6 Networks" RFC 7707
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7707>
DOI 10.17487/RFC7707
.
, March 2016,

,

[RFC7721]

[RFC7934]

[RFC8190]

Cooper, A., Gont, F., and D. Thaler "Security and Privacy Considerations for IPv6
,
Address Generation Mechanisms" RFC 7721 DOI 10.17487/RFC7721
,
2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7721>

, March

,

.

Colitti, L., Cerf, V., Cheshire, S., and D. Schinazi "Host Address Availability
, July 2016,
,
Recommendations" BCP 204 RFC 7934 DOI 10.17487/RFC7934
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7934>

,

,

.

,

Bonica, R., Cotton, M., Haberman, B., and L. Vegoda "Updates to the Special-
Purpose IP Address Registries" BCP 153 RFC 8190 DOI 10.17487/RFC8190
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8190>

,

,

.

,

,

, June

Acknowledgments

,

Fernando Gont was the sole author of this document (a revision of RFC 4941). He would like to
Fred Baker Brian Carpenter Tim Chown Lorenzo Colitti Roman
thank (in alphabetical order)
Danyliw David Farmer Tom Herbert Bob Hinden Christian Huitema Benjamin Kaduk Erik
Kline Gyan Mishra Dave Plonka Alvaro Retana Michael Richardson Mark Smith Dave Thaler
,
Pascal Thubert Ole Troan Johanna Ullrich Eric Vyncke Timothy Winters
for providing valuable comments on earlier draft versions of this document.

,
,
,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Christopher Wood

,

This document incorporates errata submitted for RFC 4941 by
the time of writing).

Jiri Bohac

 and

Alfred Hoenes

 (at

 was the sole author of RFC 4941 (a revision of RFC 3041). He would like to

Suresh Krishnan
acknowledge the contributions of the IPv6 Working Group and, in particular,
Nikander Pekka Savola Francis Dupont Brian Haberman Tatuya Jinmei
Wasserman

,
 for their detailed comments.

,
Margaret

, and

,

,

,

Jari Arkko Pekka

 and

Thomas Narten

Rich Draves
the contributions of the IPv6 Working Group and, in particular,
Steve Deering Allison Mankin
, and
,

Peter Bieringer
.

 were the authors of RFC 3041. They would like to acknowledge

Ran Atkinson Matt Crawford
,

,

Authors' Addresses

Fernando Gont
SI6 Networks
Segurola y Habana 4310, 7mo Piso
Villa Devoto
Ciudad Autonoma de Buenos Aires
Argentina
Email:
URI:

 fgont@si6networks.com
 https://www.si6networks.com

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8981

Temporary Address Extensions to Autoconf

February 2021

Suresh Krishnan
Kaloom
Email:

 suresh@kaloom.com

Thomas Narten
Email:

 narten@cs.duke.edu

Richard Draves
Microsoft Research
One Microsoft Way
Redmond WA
,
United States of America
Email:

 richdr@microsoft.com

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

