Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8745
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721

H. Ananthakrishnan
Netﬂix

S. Sivabalan
Cisco

C. Barth
Juniper Networks

I. Minei
Google, Inc

M. Negi
Huawei Technologies

RFC 8745
Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
(PCEP) Extensions for Associating Working and
Protection Label Switched Paths (LSPs) with Stateful
PCE

Abstract

An active stateful Path Computation Element (PCE) is capable of computing as well as controlling
via Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Multiprotocol Label Switching
Traﬃc Engineering (MPLS-TE) Label Switched Paths (LSPs). Furthermore, it is also possible for an
active stateful PCE to create, maintain, and delete LSPs. This document deﬁnes the PCEP
extension to associate two or more LSPs to provide end-to-end path protection.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8745

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Terminology

3.  PCEP Extensions

3.1.  Path Protection Association Type

3.2.  Path Protection Association TLV

4.  Operation

4.1.  State Synchronization

4.2.  PCC-Initiated LSPs

4.3.  PCE-Initiated LSPs

4.4.  Session Termination

4.5.  Error Handling

5.  Other Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Association Type

6.2.  Path Protection Association TLV

6.3.  PCEP Errors

7.  Security Considerations

8.  Manageability Considerations

8.1.  Control of Function and Policy

8.2.  Information and Data Models

8.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

8.4.  Verify Correct Operations

8.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

8.6.  Impact on Network Operations

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 describes Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) for

[RFC5440]
communication between a Path Computation Client (PCC) and a PCE or between a pair of PCEs as
per
. A PCE computes paths for MPLS-TE Label Switched Paths (LSPs) based on various
constraints and optimization criteria.

[RFC4655]

[RFC8231]

 speciﬁes a set of extensions to PCEP to enable stateful control of paths

Stateful PCE
such as MPLS-TE LSPs between and across PCEP sessions in compliance with
includes mechanisms to aﬀect LSP state synchronization between PCCs and PCEs, delegation of
control of LSPs to PCEs, and PCE control of timing and sequence of path computations within and
across PCEP sessions. The focus is on a model where LSPs are conﬁgured on the PCC, and control
over them is delegated to the stateful PCE. Furthermore,
dynamically instantiate LSPs on a PCC based on the requests from a stateful PCE or a controller
using stateful PCE.

 speciﬁes a mechanism to

[RFC4657]

[RFC8281]

. It

[RFC4427]

Path protection
 refers to a paradigm in which the working LSP is protected by one or
more protection LSP(s). When the working LSP fails, protection LSP(s) is/are activated. When the
working LSPs are computed and controlled by the PCE, there is beneﬁt in a mode of operation
where protection LSPs are also computed and controlled by the same PCE.
 describes
the applicability of path protection in PCE deployments.

[RFC8051]

This document speciﬁes a stateful PCEP extension to associate two or more LSPs for the purpose
of setting up path protection. The extension deﬁned in this document covers the following
scenarios:

•

A PCC initiates a protection LSP and retains the control of the LSP. The PCC computes the
path itself or makes a request for path computation to a PCE. After the path setup, it reports
the information and state of the path to the PCE. This includes the association group
identifying the working and protection LSPs. This is the passive stateful mode

[RFC8051]

.

•

A PCC initiates a protection LSP and delegates the control of the LSP to a stateful PCE. During
delegation, the association group identifying the working and protection LSPs is included.

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

The PCE computes the path for the protection LSP and updates the PCC with the information
about the path as long as it controls the LSP. This is the active stateful mode

[RFC8051]

.

•

A protection LSP could be initiated by a stateful PCE, which retains the control of the LSP.
The PCE is responsible for computing the path of the LSP and updating to the PCC with the
information about the path. This is the PCE-Initiated mode

[RFC8281]

.

Note that a protection LSP can be established (signaled) before the failure (in which case the LSP
) or after failure of the
is said to be either in standby mode
corresponding working LSP (known as a secondary LSP
before or after failure is according to operator choice or policy.

). Whether to establish it

 or a primary LSP

[RFC4872]

[RFC4872]

[RFC4427]

 introduces a generic mechanism to create a grouping of LSPs, which can then be used
[RFC8697]
to deﬁne associations between a set of LSPs. The mechanism is equally applicable to stateful PCE
(active and passive modes) and stateless PCE.

This document speciﬁes a PCEP extension to associate one working LSP with one or more
protection LSPs using the generic association mechanism.

This document describes a PCEP extension to associate protection LSPs by creating the Path
Protection Association Group (PPAG) and encoding this association in PCEP messages for stateful
PCEP sessions.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Terminology

The following terms are used in this document:

ERO:

Explicit Route Object

LSP:

Label Switched Path

PCC:

Path Computation Client

PCE:

Path Computation Element

PCEP:

Path Computation Element Communication Protocol

PPAG:

Path Protection Association Group

TLV:

Type, Length, and Value

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

3.  PCEP Extensions

3.1.  Path Protection Association Type

[RFC8697]

[RFC8697]

, LSPs are not associated by listing the other LSPs with which they interact but,

As per
rather, by making them belong to an association group. All LSPs join an association group
individually. The generic ASSOCIATION object is used to associate two or more LSPs as speciﬁed
in
. This document deﬁnes a new Association type called "Path Protection Association
Type" of value 1 and a "Path Protection Association Group" (PPAG). A member LSP of a PPAG can
take the role of working or protection LSP. A PPAG can have one working LSP and/or one or more
protection LSPs. The source, destination, Tunnel ID (as carried in LSP-IDENTIFIERS TLV
[RFC8231]
Association TLV) of all LSPs within a PPAG
, a TE tunnel is
MUST
used to associate a set of LSPs during reroute or to spread a traﬃc trunk over multiple paths.

), and Protection Type (PT) (in Path Protection

, with description as per

 be the same. As per

[RFC3209]

[RFC3209]

The format of the ASSOCIATION object used for PPAG is speciﬁed in

.
[RFC8697]

 speciﬁes the mechanism for the capability advertisement of the Association types

[RFC8697]
supported by a PCEP speaker by deﬁning an ASSOC-Type-List TLV to be carried within an OPEN
object. This capability exchange for the Association type described in this document (i.e., Path
Protection Association Type)
 be done before using this association, i.e., the PCEP speaker
MAY
PPAG in the PCEP messages.

 include the Path Protection Association Type (1) in the ASSOC-Type-List TLV before using the

MAY

This Association type is dynamic in nature and created by the PCC or PCE for the LSPs belonging
to the same TE tunnel (as described in
terminating at the same destination. These associations are conveyed via PCEP messages to the
PCEP peer. As per
, the association source is set to the local PCEP speaker address that
created the association unless local policy dictates otherwise. Operator-conﬁgured Association
Range

) originating at the same head node and

 be set for this Association type and

 be ignored.

[RFC8697]

[RFC3209]

MUST NOT

MUST

3.2.  Path Protection Association TLV

The Path Protection Association TLV is an optional TLV for use in the ASSOCIATION object with
the Path Protection Association Type. The Path Protection Association TLV
 be present
more than once. If it appears more than once, only the ﬁrst occurrence is processed and any
others

 be ignored.

MUST NOT

MUST

The Path Protection Association TLV follows the PCEP TLV format of

[RFC5440]

.

The Type (16 bits) of the TLV is 38. The Length ﬁeld (16 bits) has a ﬁxed value of 4.

The value is comprised of a single ﬁeld, the Path Protection Association Flags (32 bits), where
each bit represents a ﬂag option.

The format of the Path Protection Association TLV (Figure 1) is as follows:

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |         Type = 38             |            Length = 4         |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |   PT      |               Unassigned Flags                |S|P|
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Path Protection Association TLV Format

Path Protection Association Flags (32 bits)

The following ﬂags are currently deﬁned:

•

Protecting (P): 1 bit - This bit is as deﬁned in
a working (0) or protection (1) LSP.

Section 14.1 of [RFC4872]

 to indicate if the LSP is

•

Secondary (S): 1 bit - This bit is as deﬁned in
a primary (0) or secondary (1) LSP. The S ﬂag is ignored if the P ﬂag is not set.

Section 14.1 of [RFC4872]

 to indicate if the LSP is

•

Protection Type (PT): 6 bits - This ﬁeld is as deﬁned in
(Protection Type) Flags") to indicate the LSP protection type in use. Any type already deﬁned
or that could be deﬁned in the future for use in the RSVP-TE PROTECTION object is
acceptable in this TLV unless explicitly stated otherwise.

Section 14.1 of [RFC4872]

 (as "LSP

•

Unassigned bits are considered reserved. They
ignored on receipt.

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmission and

MUST

 be

If the TLV is missing in the PPAG ASSOCIATION object, it is considered that the LSP is a working
LSP (i.e., as if the P bit is unset).

4.  Operation

An LSP is associated with other LSPs with which it interacts by adding them to a common
association group via the ASSOCIATION object. All procedures and error handling for the
ASSOCIATION object is as per

[RFC8697]
.

4.1.  State Synchronization

During state synchronization, a PCC reports all the existing LSP states as described in
The association group membership pertaining to an LSP is also reported as per
includes PPAGs.

[RFC8231]
. This

.

[RFC8697]

4.2.  PCC-Initiated LSPs

A PCC can associate a set of LSPs under its control for path protection purposes. Similarly, the
PCC can remove one or more LSPs under its control from the corresponding PPAG. In both cases,
the PCC reports the change in association to PCE(s) via a Path Computation Report (PCRpt)
message. A PCC can also delegate the working and protection LSPs to an active stateful PCE,
where the PCE would control the LSPs. The stateful PCE could update the paths and attributes of

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

the LSPs in the association group via a Path Computation Update (PCUpd) message. A PCE could
also update the association to the PCC via a PCUpd message. These procedures are described in
[RFC8697]
.

It is expected that both working and protection LSPs are delegated together (and to the same
PCE) to avoid any race conditions. Refer to

 for the problem description.

[STATE-PCE-SYNC]

4.3.  PCE-Initiated LSPs

A PCE can create/update working and protection LSPs independently. As speciﬁed in
,
Association Groups can be created by both the PCE and the PCC. Furthermore, a PCE can remove
a protection LSP from a PPAG as speciﬁed in
Computation Initiate (PCInitiate) messages to communicate the association information to the
PCC.

. The PCE uses PCUpd or Path

[RFC8697]

[RFC8697]

4.4.  Session Termination

[RFC8697]

As per
, the association information is cleared along with the LSP state information.
When a PCEP session is terminated, after expiry of State Timeout Interval at the PCC, the LSP
state associated with that PCEP session is reverted to operator-deﬁned default parameters or
behaviors as per
. The same procedure is also followed for the association information.
On session termination at the PCE, when the LSP state reported by PCC is cleared, the association
information is also cleared as per
the association is considered to be deleted.

. Where there are no LSPs in an association group,

[RFC8697]

[RFC8231]

4.5.  Error Handling

As per the processing rules speciﬁed in
support this Path Protection Association Type, it would return a PCErr message with Error-Type
26 "Association Error" and Error-Value 1 "Association type is not supported".

, if a PCEP speaker does not

Section 6.4 of [RFC8697]

MUST

[RFC3209]

[RFC3209]

 belong to the same TE tunnel (as described

) and have the same source and destination. If a PCEP speaker attempts to add or
[RFC8231]
,

All LSPs (working or protection) within a PPAG
in
update an LSP to a PPAG and the Tunnel ID (as carried in the LSP-IDENTIFIERS TLV
with a description as per
(s) in the PPAG, the PCEP speaker
[RFC8697]
In case of Path Protection, an LSP-IDENTIFIERS TLV
Segment Routing (SR)
[RFC8664]
TLV) is diﬀerent from the LSPs in the PPAG, the PCEP speaker
26 (Association Error)
.
[RFC8697]

 and Error-Value 9 (Tunnel ID or endpoints mismatch for Path Protection Association).
 be included for all LSPs (including
). If the Protection Type (PT) (in the Path Protection Association
 send PCErr with Error-Type
MUST
 and Error-Value 6 (Association information mismatch) as per

) or source or destination of the LSP is diﬀerent from the LSP

 send PCErr with Error-Type 26 (Association Error)

[RFC8697]

SHOULD

MUST

When the PCEP peer does not support the protection type set in PPAG, the PCEP peer
PCErr with Error-Type 26 (Association Error)
not supported).

[RFC8697]

 and Error-Value 11 (Protection type is

MUST

 send

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

 belong to more than one PPAG. If there is a conﬂict between any of the two

MAY

A given LSP
PPAGs, the PCEP peer
Error-Value 6 (Association information mismatch) as per

MUST

[RFC8697]

.

 send PCErr with Error-Type 26 (Association Error)

[RFC8697]

 and

 be at
When the protection type is set to 1+1 (i.e., protection type=0x08 or 0x10), there
maximum only one working LSP and one protection LSP within a PPAG. If a PCEP speaker
attempts to add another working/protection LSP, the PCEP peer
Type 26 (Association Error)
protection LSP for Path Protection Association).

 send PCErr with Error-
 and Error-Value 10 (Attempt to add another working/

[RFC8697]

MUST

MUST

When the protection type is set to 1:N (i.e., protection type=0x04), there
only one protection LSP, and the number of working LSPs
PPAG. If a PCEP speaker attempts to add another working/protection LSP, the PCEP peer
send PCErr with Error-Type 26 (Association Error)
another working/protection LSP for Path Protection Association).

 be at maximum
 be more than N within a
MUST

 and Error-Value 10 (Attempt to add

[RFC8697]

MUST NOT

MUST

During the make-before-break (MBB) procedure, two paths will brieﬂy coexist. The error
handling related to the number of LSPs allowed in a PPAG

 be applied during MBB.

MUST NOT

All processing as per

[RFC8697]

 continues to apply.

5.  Other Considerations

The working and protection LSPs are typically resource disjoint (e.g., node, Shared Risk Link
Group [SRLG] disjoint). This ensures that a single failure will not aﬀect both the working and
protection LSPs. The disjoint requirement for a group of LSPs is handled via another Association
type called "Disjointness Association" as described in
. The diversity requirements
for the protection LSP are also handled by including both ASSOCIATION objects identifying both
the protection association group and the disjoint association group for the group of LSPs. The
relationship between the Synchronization VECtor (SVEC) object and the Disjointness Association
is described in

.
Section 5.4 of [PCEP-LSP-EXT]

[PCEP-LSP-EXT]

 introduces the concept and mechanisms to support the association of one LSP to

[RFC4872]
another LSP across diﬀerent RSVP Traﬃc Engineering (RSVP-TE) sessions using the ASSOCIATION
and PROTECTION object. The information in the Path Protection Association TLV in PCEP as
received from the PCE is used to trigger the signaling of the working LSP and protection LSP, with
the Path Protection Association Flags mapped to the corresponding ﬁelds in the PROTECTION
object in RSVP-TE.

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Association Type

This document deﬁnes a new Association type, originally deﬁned in
protection. IANA has assigned new value in the "ASSOCIATION Type Field" subregistry (created
by

) as follows:

[RFC8697]

[RFC8697]

, for path

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

Type Name

Reference

1

Path Protection Association

RFC 8745

Table 1: ASSOCIATION Type Field

6.2.  Path Protection Association TLV

This document deﬁnes a new TLV for carrying the additional information of LSPs within a path
protection association group. IANA has assigned a new value in the "PCEP TLV Type Indicators"
subregistry as follows:

Value Description

Reference

38

Path Protection Association Group TLV

RFC 8745

Table 2: PCEP TLV Type Indicators

Per this document, a new subregistry named "Path protection Association Group TLV Flag Field"
has been created within the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry to
manage the Flag ﬁeld in the Path Protection Association Group TLV. New values are to be
assigned by Standards Action

. Each bit should be tracked with the following qualities:

[RFC8126]

•

Bit number (count from 0 as the most signiﬁcant bit)

•

Name of the ﬂag

•

Reference

Bit

31

30

Name

Reference

P - PROTECTION-LSP

RFC 8745

S - SECONDARY-LSP

RFC 8745

6-29

Unassigned

RFC 8745

0-5

Protection Type Flags

RFC 8745

Table 3: Path Protection Association Group
TLV Flag Field

6.3.  PCEP Errors

This document deﬁnes new Error-Values related to path protection association for Error-type 26
"Association Error" deﬁned in
. IANA has allocated new error values within the "PCEP-
ERROR Object Error Types and Values" subregistry of the PCEP Numbers registry as follows:

[RFC8697]

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

Error-
Type

26

Meaning

Error-value

Association
Error

9: Tunnel ID or endpoints mismatch for Path
Protection Association

10: Attempt to add another working/protection
LSP for Path Protection Association

Reference

[RFC8697]

RFC 8745

RFC 8745

11: Protection type is not supported

RFC 8745

Table 4: PCEP-ERROR Object Error Types and Values

7.  Security Considerations

[RFC8231] [RFC8281]
,

The security considerations described in
extensions described in this document as well. Additional considerations related to associations
where a malicious PCEP speaker could be spoofed and could be used as an attack vector by
creating associations are described in
Protection Association group could give a false sense of network reliability, which leads to issues
when the working LSP is down and the protection LSP fails as well. Thus, securing the PCEP
session using Transport Layer Security (TLS)
current practices in BCP 195

. Adding a spurious protection LSP to the Path

, as per the recommendations and best

[RFC8253]
RECOMMENDED

 apply to the

[RFC5440]

[RFC8697]

[RFC7525]

, and

, is

.

8.  Manageability Considerations

8.1.  Control of Function and Policy

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any control or policy requirements in
[RFC5440] [RFC8231]
,
addition to those already listed in

[RFC8281]

, and

.

8.2.  Information and Data Models

[RFC7420]

 describes the PCEP MIB; there are no new MIB Objects for this document.

The PCEP YANG module

[PCEP-YANG]

 supports associations.

8.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new liveness detection and monitoring
requirements in addition to those already listed in

[RFC5440] [RFC8231]
,

[RFC8281]

, and

.

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

8.4.  Verify Correct Operations

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new operation veriﬁcation requirements
in addition to those already listed in

[RFC5440] [RFC8231]
,

[RFC8281]

, and

.

8.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new requirements on other protocols.

8.6.  Impact on Network Operations

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not have any impact on network operations in addition
, and
to those already listed in

,
[RFC5440] [RFC8231]

.
[RFC8281]

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3209]

[RFC4872]

[RFC5440]

[RFC7525]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Awduche, D., Berger, L., Gan, D., Li, T., Srinivasan, V., and G. Swallow "RSVP-TE:
Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels" RFC 3209 DOI 10.17487/RFC3209
December 2001,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3209>

.

,

,

Lang, J.P., Ed., Rekhter, Y., Ed., and D. Papadimitriou, Ed. "RSVP-TE Extensions in
Support of End-to-End Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)
,
Recovery" RFC 4872 DOI 10.17487/RFC4872
editor.org/info/rfc4872>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2007,

.

,

,

,
Vasseur, JP., Ed. and JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)
,
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

,

.

, March 2009,

,
Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

,

.

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

[RFC8231]

[RFC8253]

[RFC8281]

[RFC8697]

Crabbe, E., Minei, I., Medved, J., and R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

,

,

,

.

Lopez, D., Gonzalez de Dios, O., Wu, Q., and D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
,
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

, October 2017,

<https://

,

.

,

Crabbe, E., Minei, I., Sivabalan, S., and R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

,

.

,

,

<https://

,

Minei, I., Crabbe, E., Sivabalan, S., Ananthakrishnan, H., Dhody, D., and Y.
Tanaka "Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions
for Establishing Relationships between Sets of Label Switched Paths (LSPs)" RFC
,
8697 DOI 10.17487/RFC8697
rfc8697>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2020,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[PCEP-LSP-EXT]

Litkowski, S., Sivabalan, S., Barth, C., and M. Negi "Path Computation Element

,

Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint
,
Signaling" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-association-
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-pce-
diversity-14
association-diversity-14>

,
, 26 January 2020,

.

[PCEP-YANG]

[RFC4427]

[RFC4655]

[RFC4657]

Dhody, D., Hardwick, J., Beeram, V., and J. Tantsura "A YANG Data Model for
Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-13
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-13>

, 31 October 2019,

<https://

,

.

,

,

Mannie, E., Ed. and D. Papadimitriou, Ed. "Recovery (Protection and
Restoration) Terminology for Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching
(GMPLS)" RFC 4427 DOI 10.17487/RFC4427
editor.org/info/rfc4427>

, March 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Farrel, A., Vasseur, J.-P., and J. Ash "A Path Computation Element (PCE)-Based
,
Architecture" RFC 4655 DOI 10.17487/RFC4655
.
editor.org/info/rfc4655>

, August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Ash, J., Ed. and J.L. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)
Communication Protocol Generic Requirements" RFC 4657 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4657

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4657>

, September 2006,

,

,

.

,

[RFC7420]

Koushik, A., Stephan, E., Zhao, Q., King, D., and J. Hardwick "Path Computation
Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Management Information Base (MIB)

,

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

,

Module" RFC 7420 DOI 10.17487/RFC7420
editor.org/info/rfc7420>

,

.

, December 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

[RFC8051]

[RFC8664]

Zhang, X., Ed. and I. Minei, Ed. "Applicability of a Stateful Path Computation
Element (PCE)" RFC 8051 DOI 10.17487/RFC8051
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8051>

, January 2017,

<https://

,

,

.

Sivabalan, S., Filsﬁls, C., Tantsura, J., Henderickx, W., and J. Hardwick "Path
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Segment
Routing" RFC 8664 DOI 10.17487/RFC8664
editor.org/info/rfc8664>

, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

,

,

[STATE-PCE-SYNC]

Litkowski, S., Sivabalan, S., Li, C., and H. Zheng "Inter Stateful Path
Computation Element (PCE) Communication Procedures." Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-litkowski-pce-state-sync-07
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-litkowski-pce-state-sync-07>

, 11 January 2020,

<https://

.

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

We would like to thank
document.

Jeﬀ Tantsura Xian Zhang
,

, and

Greg Mirsky

 for their contributions to this

Thanks to

Ines Robles

 for the RTGDIR review.

Thanks to

Pete Resnick

 for the GENART review.

Thanks to

Donald Eastlake

 for the SECDIR review.

Thanks to

Barry Leiba Benjamin Kaduk Éric Vyncke

,

,

, and

Roman Danyliw

 for the IESG review.

Contributors

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei Technologies
Divyashree Techno Park, Whiteﬁeld
Bangalore 560066
Karnataka
India
Email:

 dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

Raveendra Torvi
Juniper Networks
1194 N Mathilda Ave
Sunnyvale CA 94086
,
United States of America
Email:

 rtorvi@juniper.net

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8745

Stateful PCE LSP Path Protection

March 2020

Edward Crabbe
Individual Contributor
Email:

 edward.crabbe@gmail.com

Authors' Addresses

Hariharan Ananthakrishnan
Netﬂix
United States of America
 hari@netﬂix.com
Email:

Siva Sivabalan
Cisco
2000 Innovation Drive
Kanata Ontario K2K 3E8
Canada
Email:

 msiva@cisco.com

Colby Barth
Juniper Networks
1194 N Mathilda Ave
Sunnyvale CA 94086
,
United States of America
Email:

 cbarth@juniper.net

Ina Minei
Google, Inc
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

 inaminei@google.com

,

Mahendra Singh Negi
Huawei Technologies
Divyashree Techno Park, Whiteﬁeld
Bangalore 560066
Karnataka
India
Email:

 mahend.ietf@gmail.com

Ananthakrishnan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

