Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8830
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
H. Alvestrand
Google

RFC 8830
WebRTC MediaStream Identiﬁcation in the Session
Description Protocol

Abstract

This document speciﬁes a Session Description Protocol (SDP) grouping mechanism for RTP media
streams that can be used to specify relations between media streams.

This mechanism is used to signal the association between the SDP concept of "media description"
and the Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) concept of MediaStream/MediaStreamTrack
using SDP signaling.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8830

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8830

MSID in SDP

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

1.2.  Structure of This Document

1.3.  Why a New Mechanism Is Needed

1.4.  The WebRTC MediaStream

2.  The MSID Mechanism

3.  Procedures

3.1.  Handling of Nonsignaled Tracks

3.2.  Detailed Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

3.2.1.  Generating the Initial Oﬀer

3.2.2.  Answerer Processing of the Oﬀer

3.2.3.  Generating the Answer

3.2.4.  Oﬀerer Processing of the Answer

3.2.5.  Modifying the Session

3.3.  Example SDP Description

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  Attribute Registration in Existing Registries

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Design Considerations, Rejected Alternatives

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8830

MSID in SDP

January 2021

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

This document uses terminology from
described below:

[RFC8825]

. In addition, the following terms are used as

RTP stream:

A stream of RTP packets containing media data

[RFC7656]

.

MediaStream:

. One
MediaStream can contain multiple MediaStreamTracks, of the same or diﬀerent types.

An assembly of MediaStreamTracks

[W3C.CR-mediacapture-streams]

MediaStreamTrack:

Deﬁned in

[W3C.CR-mediacapture-streams]

 as a unidirectional ﬂow of

media data (either audio or video, but not both). Corresponds to the
stream". One MediaStreamTrack can be present in zero, one, or multiple MediaStreams.

[RFC7656]

 term "source

Media description:

Deﬁned in

[RFC4566]

 as a set of ﬁelds starting with an "m=" ﬁeld and

terminated by either the next "m=" ﬁeld or the end of the session description.

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Structure of This Document

This document adds a new Session Description Protocol (SDP)
attach identiﬁers to the RTP streams and attach identiﬁers to the groupings they form. It is
designed for use with WebRTC

 mechanism that can

[RFC4566]

[RFC8825]

.

Section 1.3 gives the background on why a new mechanism is needed.

Section 2 gives the deﬁnition of the new mechanism.

Section 3 gives the necessary semantic information and procedures for using the "msid" attribute
to signal the association of MediaStreamTracks to MediaStreams in support of the WebRTC API
[W3C-WebRTC]
.

1.3.  Why a New Mechanism Is Needed

[RFC3550]

When media is carried by RTP
by its Synchronization Source (SSRC); each RTP session is distinguished from all other RTP
sessions by being on a diﬀerent transport association (strictly speaking, two transport
associations, one used for RTP and one used for the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP), unless RTP/RTCP
multiplexing

, each RTP stream is distinguished inside an RTP session

[RFC5761]

 is used).

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8830

MSID in SDP

January 2021

[RFC4566]

 gives a format for describing an SDP session that can contain multiple media

SDP
descriptions. According to the model used in
one media source. If multiple media sources are carried in an RTP session, this is signaled using
; if BUNDLE is not used, each media source is carried in its own RTP session.
BUNDLE

, each media description describes exactly

[RFC8843]

[RFC8829]

The SDP Grouping Framework
the use case of WebRTC, there is the need for an application to specify some application-level
information about the association between the media description and the group. This is not
possible using the SDP Grouping Framework.

 can be used to group media descriptions. However, for

[RFC5888]

1.4.  The WebRTC MediaStream

[W3C-WebRTC]

The W3C WebRTC API speciﬁcation
WebRTC entities is done via MediaStreams, which contain MediaStreamTracks. A
MediaStreamTrack is generally carried using a single SSRC in an RTP session, forming an RTP
stream. The collision of terminology is unfortunate. There might possibly be additional SSRCs,
possibly within additional RTP sessions, in order to support functionality like forward error
correction or simulcast. These additional SSRCs are not aﬀected by this speciﬁcation.

 speciﬁes that communication between

MediaStreamTracks are unidirectional; they carry media in one direction only.

In the RTP speciﬁcation, RTP streams are identiﬁed using the SSRC ﬁeld. Streams are grouped
into RTP sessions and also carry a CNAME. Neither CNAME nor RTP session corresponds to a
MediaStream. Therefore, the association of an RTP stream to MediaStreams need to be explicitly
signaled.

WebRTC deﬁnes a mapping (documented in
to describe each MediaStreamTrack, and the BUNDLE mechanism
MediaStreamTracks into RTP sessions. Therefore, the need is to specify the identiﬁer (ID) of the
MediaStreamTrack and its associated MediaStream for each media description, which can be
accomplished with a media-level SDP attribute.

) where one SDP media description is used

 is used to group

[RFC8829]

[RFC8843]

This usage is described in Section 3.

2.  The MSID Mechanism

This document deﬁnes a new SDP
allows endpoints to associate RTP streams that are described in separate media descriptions with
the right MediaStreams, as deﬁned in
identiﬁer for each MediaStreamTrack in its "appdata" ﬁeld.

 media-level "msid" attribute. This new attribute

. It also allows endpoints to carry an

[W3C-WebRTC]

[RFC4566]

The value of the "msid" attribute consists of an identiﬁer and an optional "appdata" ﬁeld.

The name of the attribute is "msid".

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8830

MSID in SDP

January 2021

The value of the attribute is speciﬁed by the following ABNF

[RFC5234]

 grammar:

  msid-value = msid-id [ SP msid-appdata ]
  msid-id = 1*64token-char ; see RFC 4566
  msid-appdata = 1*64token-char  ; see RFC 4566

An example "msid" value for a group with the identiﬁer "examplefoo" and application data
"examplebar" might look like this:

  msid:examplefoo examplebar

The identiﬁer is a string of ASCII characters that are legal in a "token", consisting of between 1
and 64 characters.

Application data (msid-appdata) is carried on the same line as the identiﬁer, separated from the
identiﬁer by a space.

The identiﬁer ("msid-id") uniquely identiﬁes a group within the scope of an SDP description.

There may be multiple "msid" attributes in a single media description. This represents the case
where a single MediaStreamTrack is present in multiple MediaStreams; the value of "msid-
appdata"

 be identical for all occurrences.

MUST

Multiple media descriptions with the same value for "msid-id" and "msid‑appdata" are not
permitted.

Endpoints can update the associations between RTP streams as expressed by "msid" attributes at
any time.

The "msid" attributes depend on the association of RTP streams with media descriptions but do
not depend on the association of RTP streams with RTP transports. Therefore, their Mux Category
(as deﬁned in
) is NORMAL; the process of deciding on "msid" attributes doesn't have to
take into consideration whether or not the RTP streams are bundled.

[RFC8859]

3.  Procedures

This section describes the procedures for associating media descriptions representing
MediaStreamTracks within MediaStreams, as deﬁned in

[W3C-WebRTC]
.

In the Javascript API described in that speciﬁcation, each MediaStream and MediaStreamTrack
has an "id" attribute, which is a DOMString.

The value of the "msid-id" ﬁeld in the MSID consists of the "id" attribute of a MediaStream, as
deﬁned in the MediaStream's WebIDL speciﬁcation
MediaStream".

. The special value "-" indicates "no

[WEBIDL]

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8830

MSID in SDP

January 2021

The value of the "msid-appdata" ﬁeld in the MSID, if present, consists of the "id" attribute of a
MediaStreamTrack, as deﬁned in the MediaStreamTrack's WebIDL speciﬁcation.

When an SDP session description is updated, a speciﬁc "msid-id" value continues to refer to the
same MediaStream, and a speciﬁc "msid-appdata" to the same MediaStreamTrack. There is no
memory apart from the currently valid SDP descriptions; if an MSID "identiﬁer" value disappears
from the SDP and appears in a later negotiation, it will be taken to refer to a new MediaStream.

If the "msid" attribute does not conform to the ABNF given here, it

SHOULD

 be ignored.

The following is a high-level description of the rules for handling SDP updates. Detailed
procedures are located in Section 3.2.

•

When a new MSID "identiﬁer" value occurs in a session description, and it is not "-", the
recipient can signal to its application that a new MediaStream has been added.

•

When a session description is updated to have media descriptions with an MSID "identiﬁer"
value, with one or more diﬀerent "appdata" values, the recipient can signal to its application
that new MediaStreamTracks have been added and note to which MediaStream they have
been added. This is done for each diﬀerent MSID "identiﬁer" value, including the special
value "-", which indicates that a MediaStreamTrack has been added with no corresponding
MediaStream.

•

If an MSID "identiﬁer" value with no "appdata" value appears, it means that the sender did
not inform the recipient of the desired identiﬁer of the MediaStreamTrack, and the recipient
will assign the "id" value of the created MediaStreamTrack on its own. All MSIDs in a media
section that do not have an "appdata" value are assumed to refer to the same
MediaStreamTrack.

•

When a session description is updated to no longer list any "msid" attribute on a speciﬁc
media description, the recipient can signal to its application that the corresponding
MediaStreamTrack has ended.

[RFC3550]

In addition to signaling that the track is ended when its "msid" attribute disappears from the SDP,
the track will also be signaled as being ended when all associated SSRCs have disappeared by the
rules of
corresponding media description is disabled by setting the port number to zero. Changing the
direction of the media description (by setting "sendonly", "recvonly", or "inactive" attributes) will
not end the MediaStreamTrack.

, Sections 6.3.4 (BYE packet received) and 6.3.5 (timeout), or when the

The association between SSRCs and media descriptions is speciﬁed in

.
[RFC8829]

3.1.  Handling of Nonsignaled Tracks

Entities that do not use the mechanism described in this document will not send the "msid"
attribute and thus will not send information allowing the mapping of RTP packets to
MediaStreams. This means that there will be some incoming RTP packets for which the recipient
has no predeﬁned MediaStream ID value.

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8830

MSID in SDP

January 2021

Note that the handling described below is triggered by incoming RTP packets, not SDP
negotiation.

When communicating with entities that use the MSID mechanism, the only time incoming RTP
packets can be received without an associated MediaStream ID value is when, after the initial
negotiation, a negotiation is performed where the answerer adds a MediaStreamTrack to an
already established connection and starts sending data before the answer is received by the
oﬀerer. For initial negotiation, packets won't ﬂow until the Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE) candidates and ﬁngerprints have been exchanged, so this is not an issue.

The recipient of those packets will perform the following steps:

•

When RTP packets are initially received, it will create an appropriate MediaStreamTrack
based on the type of the media (carried in PayloadType) and use the MID RTP header
extension

 (if present) to associate the RTP packets with a speciﬁc media section.

[RFC8843]

•

If the connection is not in the RTCSignalingState "stable", it will wait at this point.

•

When the connection is in the RTCSignalingState "stable", it will assign ID values.

The following steps are performed to assign ID values:

•

If there is an "msid" attribute, it will use that attribute to populate the "id" ﬁeld of the
MediaStreamTrack and associated MediaStreams, as described above.

•

If there is no "msid" attribute, the identiﬁer of the MediaStreamTrack will be set to a
randomly generated string, and it will be signaled as being part of a MediaStream with the
WebIDL "label" attribute set to "Non-WebRTC stream".

•

After deciding on the "id" ﬁeld to be applied to the MediaStreamTrack, the track will be
signaled to the user.

The process above may involve a considerable amount of buﬀering before the "stable" state is
entered. If the implementation wishes to limit this buﬀering, it
media has been discarded.

 signal to the user that

MUST

It follows from the above that MediaStreamTracks in the "default" MediaStream cannot be closed
by removing the "msid" attribute; the application must instead signal these as closed when the
SSRC disappears, either according to the rules of Sections 6.3.4 and 6.3.5 of
disabling the media description by setting its port to zero.

[RFC3550]

 or by

3.2.  Detailed Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

These procedures are given in terms of sections recommended by
actions to be taken in terms of MediaStreams and MediaStreamTracks; they do not include event
signaling inside the application, which is described in the JavaScript Session Establishment
Protocol (JSEP)

. They describe the

[RFC3264]

[RFC8829]

.

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8830

MSID in SDP

January 2021

3.2.1.  Generating the Initial Oﬀer

For each media description in the oﬀer, if there is an associated outgoing MediaStreamTrack, the
oﬀerer adds one "a=msid" attribute to the section for each MediaStream with which the
MediaStreamTrack is associated. The "identiﬁer" ﬁeld of the attribute is set to the WebIDL "id"
attribute of the MediaStream. If the sender wishes to signal identiﬁers for the
MediaStreamTracks, the "appdata" ﬁeld is set to the WebIDL "id" attribute of the
MediaStreamTrack; otherwise, it is omitted.

3.2.2.  Answerer Processing of the Oﬀer

For each media description in the oﬀer and each "a=msid" attribute in the media description, the
receiver of the oﬀer will perform the following steps:

•

Extract the "appdata" ﬁeld of the "a=msid" attribute, if present.

•

If the "appdata" ﬁeld exists: Check if a MediaStreamTrack with the same WebIDL "id"
attribute as the "appdata" ﬁeld already exists and is not in the "ended" state. If such a
MediaStreamTrack is not found, create it.

•

If the "appdata" ﬁeld does not exist, and a MediaStreamTrack is not associated with this
media section, create a MediaStreamTrack and associate it with this media section for future
use.

•

Extract the "identiﬁer" ﬁeld of the "a=msid" attribute.

•

Check if a MediaStream with the same WebIDL "id" attribute already exists. If not, create it.

•

Add the MediaStreamTrack to the MediaStream.

•

Signal to the user that a new MediaStreamTrack is available.

3.2.3.  Generating the Answer

The answer is generated in exactly the same manner as the oﬀer. "a=msid" values in the oﬀer do
not inﬂuence the answer.

3.2.4.  Oﬀerer Processing of the Answer

The answer is processed in exactly the same manner as the oﬀer.

3.2.5.  Modifying the Session

On subsequent exchanges, precisely the same procedure as for the initial oﬀer/answer is
followed, but with one additional step in the parsing of the oﬀer and answer:

•

For each MediaStreamTrack that has been created as a result of previous oﬀer/answer
exchanges, and is not in the "ended" state, check to see if there is still an "a=msid" attribute
in the present SDP whose "appdata" ﬁeld is the same as the WebIDL "id" attribute of the
track.

•

If no such attribute is found, stop the MediaStreamTrack. This will set its state to "ended".

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8830

MSID in SDP

January 2021

3.3.  Example SDP Description

The following SDP description shows the representation of a WebRTC PeerConnection with two
MediaStreams, each of which has one audio and one video track. Only the parts relevant to the
MSID are shown.

Line wrapping, empty lines, and comments are added for clarity. They are not part of the SDP.

# First MediaStream - id is 4701...
m=audio 56500 UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF 96 0 8 97 98
a=msid:47017fee-b6c1-4162-929c-a25110252400
       f83006c5-a0ff-4e0a-9ed9-d3e6747be7d9

m=video 56502 UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF 100 101
a=msid:47017fee-b6c1-4162-929c-a25110252400
       b47bdb4a-5db8-49b5-bcdc-e0c9a23172e0

# Second MediaStream - id is 6131....
m=audio 56503 UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF 96 0 8 97 98
a=msid:61317484-2ed4-49d7-9eb7-1414322a7aae
       b94006c5-cade-4e0a-9ed9-d3e6747be7d9

m=video 56504 UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF 100 101
a=msid:61317484-2ed4-49d7-9eb7-1414322a7aae
       f30bdb4a-1497-49b5-3198-e0c9a23172e0

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  Attribute Registration in Existing Registries

IANA has registered the "msid" attribute in the "att-ﬁeld" (media level only) registry within the
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry, according to the procedures of
[RFC4566]
.

The "msid" registration information is as follows:

Contact name, email:

IETF, contacted via mmusic@ietf.org, or a successor address designated by

IESG

Attribute name:

msid

Attribute syntax:

          msid-value = msid-id [ SP msid-appdata ]
          msid-id = 1*64token-char ; see RFC 4566
          msid-appdata = 1*64token-char  ; see RFC 4566

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8830

MSID in SDP

January 2021

Attribute semantics:

Described in RFC 8830

Attribute value:

msid-value

Long-form attribute name:

MediaStream Identiﬁer

Usage level:

media

Subject to charset:

The attribute value contains only ASCII characters and is therefore not

subject to the charset attribute.

Purpose:

The attribute can be used to signal the relationship between a WebRTC MediaStream

and a set of media descriptions.

O/A Procedures:

Described in RFC 8830

Appropriate values:

The details of appropriate values are given in RFC 8830 (this document).

Mux Category:

NORMAL

The Mux Category is deﬁned in

[RFC8859]
.

5.  Security Considerations

An adversary with the ability to modify SDP descriptions has the ability to switch around tracks
between MediaStreams. This is a special case of the general security consideration that
modiﬁcation of SDP descriptions needs to be conﬁned to entities trusted by the application.

If implementing buﬀering as mentioned in Section 3.1, the amount of buﬀering should be limited
to avoid memory exhaustion attacks.

Careless generation of identiﬁers can leak privacy-sensitive information.
streams]
class 3 or 4 as a basis, which avoids such leakage.

[W3C.CR-mediacapture-
 recommends that identiﬁers be generated using a Universally Unique IDentiﬁer (UUID)

No other attacks have been identiﬁed that depend on this mechanism.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3550]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
,
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

.

,

,

,

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8830

MSID in SDP

January 2021

[RFC4566]

[RFC5234]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8829]

[RFC8859]

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Uberti, J., Jennings, C., and E. Rescorla, Ed. "JavaScript Session Establishment
,
Protocol (JSEP)" RFC 8829 DOI 10.17487/RFC8829
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8829>

, January 2021,

<https://

,

.

,

,

Nandakumar, S. "A Framework for Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
,
Attributes When Multiplexing" RFC 8859 DOI 10.17487/RFC8859
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8859>

, January 2021,

[W3C-WebRTC]

Jennings, C., Boström, H., and J-I. Bruaroey "WebRTC 1.0: Real-time

,

Communication Between Browsers" W3C Proposed Recommendation <https://
www.w3.org/TR/webrtc/>

.

,

,

[W3C.CR-mediacapture-streams]

Jennings, C., Aboba, B., Bruaroey, J.-I., and H. Boström
"Media Capture and Streams" W3C Candidate Recommendation <https://
www.w3.org/TR/mediacapture-streams/>

,

,

.

,

6.2.  Informative References

[RFC3264]

[RFC5761]

[RFC5888]

[RFC7656]

[RFC8825]

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

,

,

,

.

Perkins, C. and M. Westerlund "Multiplexing RTP Data and Control Packets on a
,
,
Single Port" RFC 5761 DOI 10.17487/RFC5761
editor.org/info/rfc5761>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2010,

.

,

,
Camarillo, G. and H. Schulzrinne "The Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
Grouping Framework" RFC 5888 DOI 10.17487/RFC5888
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5888>

, June 2010,

,

<https://

Lennox, J., Gross, K., Nandakumar, S., Salgueiro, G., and B. Burman, Ed. "A
Taxonomy of Semantics and Mechanisms for Real-Time Transport Protocol
<https://
(RTP) Sources" RFC 7656 DOI 10.17487/RFC7656
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7656>

, November 2015,

,

,

.

,

,

,
Alvestrand, H. "Overview: Real-Time Protocols for Browser-Based Applications"
, January 2021,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 8825 DOI 10.17487/RFC8825
rfc8825>

,
.

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8830

MSID in SDP

January 2021

[RFC8843]

[WEBIDL]

Holmberg, C., Alvestrand, H., and C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8843 DOI 10.17487/RFC8843
January 2021,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8843>
.

,
,

,

Chen, E. and T. Gu "Web IDL" W3C Editor's Draft
heycam.github.io/webidl/>

.

,

,

, August 2020,

<https://

Appendix A.  Design Considerations, Rejected Alternatives

One suggested mechanism has been to use CNAME instead of a new attribute. This was
abandoned because CNAME identiﬁes a synchronization context; one can imagine both wanting
to have tracks from the same synchronization context in multiple MediaStreams and wanting to
have tracks from multiple synchronization contexts within one MediaStream (but the latter is
impossible, since a MediaStream is deﬁned to impose synchronization on its members).

Another suggestion has been to put the "msid" value within an attribute of RTCP SR (sender
report) packets. This doesn't oﬀer the ability to know that you have seen all the tracks currently
conﬁgured for a MediaStream.

A suggestion that survived for a number of drafts of this document was to deﬁne MSID as a
generic mechanism, where the particular semantics of this usage of the mechanism would be
deﬁned by an "a=wms-semantic" attribute. This was removed in April 2015.

Acknowledgements

This note is based on sketches from, among others,

Justin Uberti

 and

Cullen Jennings

.

Special thanks to
Hardie Adam Roach Magnus Westerlund Alissa Cooper Sue Hares
work in reviewing this document, with many speciﬁc language suggestions.

Flemming Andreasen Ben Campbell Miguel Garcia Martin Thomson Ted
,

,
, and

Paul Kyzivat

,

,

,

,

,

,

 for their

Author's Address

Harald Alvestrand
Google
Kungsbron 2
SE-
Sweden
Email:

11122 Stockholm

 harald@alvestrand.no

Alvestrand

Standards Track

Page 12

