Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8979
Standards Track
February 2021
2070-1721
B. Sarikaya

D. von Hugo
Deutsche Telekom

M. Boucadair
Orange

RFC 8979
Subscriber and Performance Policy Identiﬁer
Context Headers in the Network Service Header
(NSH)

Abstract

This document deﬁnes the Subscriber and Performance Policy Identiﬁer Context Headers. These
Variable-Length Context Headers can be carried in the Network Service Header (NSH) and are
used to inform Service Functions (SFs) of subscriber- and performance-related information for
the sake of policy enforcement and appropriate Service Function Chaining (SFC) operations. The
structure of each Context Header and their use and processing by NSH-aware nodes are
described.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8979

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Sarikaya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8979

Subscriber/Performance Policy Headers

February 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Terminology

3.  Subscriber Identiﬁer NSH Variable-Length Context Header

4.  Performance Policy Identiﬁer NSH Variable-Length Context Headers

5.  MTU Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document discusses how to inform Service Functions (SFs)
service policy information when required for the sake of policy enforcement within a single
administrative domain. In particular, subscriber-related information may be required to enforce
subscriber-speciﬁc SFC-based traﬃc policies. However, the information carried in packets may
not be suﬃcient to unambiguously identify a subscriber. This document ﬁlls this void by
specifying a new Network Service Header (NSH)
 Context Header to convey and
disseminate such information within the boundaries of a single administrative domain. As
discussed in Section 3, the use of obfuscated and non-persistent identiﬁers is recommended.

 about subscriber and

[RFC8300]

[RFC7665]

Also, traﬃc steering by means of SFC may be driven, for example, by Quality of Service (QoS)
considerations. Typically, QoS information may serve as an input for the computation,
establishment, and selection of the Service Function Path (SFP). Furthermore, the dynamic
structuring of Service Function Chains and their subsequent SFPs may be conditioned by QoS
requirements that will aﬀect the identiﬁcation, location, and sequencing of SF instances. Hence,

Sarikaya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8979

Subscriber/Performance Policy Headers

February 2021

the need arises to provide downstream SFs with a performance policy identiﬁer in order for
them to appropriately meet the QoS requirements. This document also speciﬁes a new NSH
Context Header (Section 4) to convey such policy identiﬁers.

[CASE-MOBILITY]

. Typically, because

The context information deﬁned in this document can be applicable in the context of mobile
networks (particularly in the 3GPP-deﬁned (S)Gi interface)
of the widespread use of private IPv4 addresses in those networks, if the SFs to be invoked are
located after a NAT function, the identiﬁcation based on the internal IPv4 address is not possible
once the NAT has been crossed. NAT functionality can reside in a distinct node. For a 4G 3GPP
network, that node can be the Packet Data Network (PDN) Gateway (PGW) as speciﬁed in
. For a 5G 3GPP network, it can be the User Plane Function (UPF) facing the external
[TS23401]
. As such, a mechanism to pass the internal information past the
Data Network (DN)
NAT boundary may optimize packet traversal within an SFC-enabled mobile network domain.
Furthermore, some SFs that are not enabled on the PGW/UPF may require a subscriber identiﬁer
to properly operate (see, for example, those listed in
). It is outside the scope of this
document to include a comprehensive list of deployments that may make use of the Context
Headers deﬁned in the document.

[RFC8371]

[TS23501]

Since subscriber identiﬁers are distinct from those used to identify a performance policy and
given that multiple policies may be associated with a single subscriber within a Service Function
Chain, these identiﬁers are carried in distinct Context Headers rather than being multiplexed in
one single Context Header. This approach avoids a requirement for additional internal structure
in the Context Headers to specify whether an identiﬁer refers to a subscriber or to a policy.

This document does not make any assumptions about the structure of subscriber or performance
policy identiﬁers; each such identiﬁer is treated as an opaque value. The semantics and
validation of these identiﬁers are policies local to each SFC-enabled domain. This document
focuses on the data plane behavior. Control plane considerations are out of the scope.

This document adheres to the SFC data plane architecture deﬁned in
assumes the reader is familiar with

.
[RFC8300]

[RFC7665]

. This document

This document assumes the NSH is used exclusively within a single administrative domain. This
document follows the recommendations in
 for handling the Context Headers at both
[RFC8300]
ingress and egress SFC boundary nodes (i.e., to strip the entire NSH, including Context Headers).
Revealing any subscriber-related information to parties outside the SFC-enabled domain is
avoided by design. Accordingly, the scope for privacy breaches and user tracking is limited to
within the SFC-enabled domain where the NSH is used. It is assumed that appropriate
mechanisms to monitor and audit an SFC-enabled domain to detect misbehavior and to deter
misuse are in place.

MTU considerations are discussed in Section 5.

Sarikaya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8979

Subscriber/Performance Policy Headers

February 2021

2.  Conventions and Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The reader should be familiar with the terms deﬁned in

.
[RFC7665]

"SFC Control Element" refers to a logical entity that instructs one or more SFC data plane
functional elements on how to process packets within an SFC-enabled domain.

3.  Subscriber Identiﬁer NSH Variable-Length Context Header

Subscriber Identiﬁer is deﬁned as an optional Variable-Length NSH Context Header. Its structure
is shown in Figure 1.

    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |          Metadata Class       |      Type     |U|    Length   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                                                               |
   ~                      Subscriber Identifier                    ~
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Subscriber Identiﬁer Variable-Length Context Header

The ﬁelds are described as follows:

Metadata Class:

MUST

 be set to 0x0

[RFC8300]

.

Type:

0x00 (see Section 6).

U bit:

Unassigned bit (see

Section 2.5.1 of [RFC8300]

).

Length:

Indicates the length of the Subscriber Identiﬁer, in bytes (see

Section 2.5.1 of

[RFC8300]

).

Subscriber Identiﬁer:
network operator.

Carries an opaque local identiﬁer that is assigned to a subscriber by a

While this document does not specify an internal structure for these identiﬁers, it also does
not provide any cryptographic protection for them; any internal structure to the identiﬁer
values chosen will thus be visible on the wire if no secure transport encapsulation is used.
Accordingly, in alignment with
Section 8.2.2 of [RFC8300]
obfuscated.

, identiﬁer values

SHOULD

 be

Sarikaya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8979

Subscriber/Performance Policy Headers

February 2021

The Subscriber Identiﬁer Context Header is used by SFs to enforce per-subscriber policies (e.g.,
resource quota, customized ﬁltering proﬁle, accounting). To that aim, network operators may
rely on identiﬁers that are generated from those used in legacy deployments (e.g.,
Section 3.3 of
). Alternatively, network operators may use identiﬁers that are associated with
[CASE-MOBILITY]
customized policy proﬁles that are preconﬁgured on SFs using an out-of-band mechanism. Such
a mechanism can be used to rotate the identiﬁers, thus allowing for better unlinkability (
Section
). Such alternative methods may be suboptimal (e.g., scalability issues induced by
3.2 of [RFC6973]
maintaining and processing ﬁner granular proﬁles) or inadequate for providing some per-
subscriber policies. The assessment of whether a method for deﬁning a subscriber identiﬁer
provides the required functionality and whether it is compatible with the capabilities of the SFs
at the intended performance level is deployment speciﬁc.

MAY

 inject a Subscriber Identiﬁer Context Header as a function

The classiﬁer and NSH-aware SFs
of a local policy. This local policy should indicate the SFP(s) for which the Subscriber Identiﬁer
Context Header will be added. In order to prevent interoperability issues, the type and format of
the identiﬁers to be injected in a Subscriber Identiﬁer Context Header should be conﬁgured to
nodes authorized to inject and consume such headers. For example, a node can be instructed to
insert such data following a type/set scheme (e.g., node X should inject subscriber ID type Y).
Other schemes may be envisaged.

Failures to inject such headers should be logged locally, while a notiﬁcation alarm may be sent to
a Control Element. The details of sending notiﬁcation alarms (i.e., the parameters aﬀecting the
transmission of the notiﬁcation alarms) might depend on the nature of the information in the
Context Header. Parameters for sending alarms, such as frequency, thresholds, and content of
the alarm, should be conﬁgurable.

The default behavior of intermediary NSH-aware nodes is to preserve Subscriber Identiﬁer
Context Headers (i.e., the information can be passed to next-hop NSH-aware nodes), but local
policy may require an intermediary NSH-aware node to strip a Subscriber Identiﬁer Context
Header after processing it.

NSH-aware SFs

MUST

 ignore Context Headers carrying unknown subscriber identiﬁers.

Local policies at NSH-aware SFs may require running additional validation checks on the content
of these Context Headers (e.g., accepting only some lengths or types). These policies may also
indicate the behavior to be followed by an NSH-aware SF if the validation checks fail (e.g.,
removing the Context Header from the packet). These additional validation checks are
deployment speciﬁc. If validation checks fail on a Subscriber Identiﬁer Context Header, an NSH-
aware SF
notiﬁcation alarm may be sent to a Control Element if the NSH-aware SF is instructed to do so.
For example, an SF will discard Subscriber Identiﬁer Context Headers conveying identiﬁers in all
formats that are diﬀerent from the one the SF is instructed to expect.

 ignore that Context Header. The event should be logged locally, while a

MUST

Multiple Subscriber Identiﬁer Context Headers
 be present in the NSH, each carrying a
distinct opaque value but all pointing to the same subscriber. This may be required, e.g., by
policy enforcement mechanisms in a mobile network where some SFs rely on IP addresses as
subscriber identiﬁers, while others use non-IP-speciﬁc identiﬁers such as those listed in

MAY

Sarikaya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8979

Subscriber/Performance Policy Headers

February 2021

 and

Section 3.3.2 of [CASE-MOBILITY]

[RFC8371]
. When multiple Subscriber Identiﬁer Context
Headers are present and an SF is instructed to strip the Subscriber Identiﬁer Context Header,
that SF

 remove all Subscriber Identiﬁer Context Headers.

MUST

4.  Performance Policy Identiﬁer NSH Variable-Length Context
Headers

Dedicated service-speciﬁc performance identiﬁers are deﬁned to diﬀerentiate between services
that require speciﬁc treatment in order to exhibit a performance characterized by, e.g., ultra-low
latency (ULL) or ultra-high reliability (UHR). Other policies can be considered when instantiating
a Service Function Chain within an SFC-enabled domain. They are conveyed in the Performance
Policy Identiﬁer Context Header.

The Performance Policy Identiﬁer Context Header is inserted in an NSH packet so that
downstream NSH-aware nodes can make use of the performance information for proper
selection of suitably distributed SFC paths, SF instances, or applicable policy at SFs. Note that the
use of the performance policy identiﬁer is not helpful if the path computation is centralized and
a strict SFP is presented as local policy to SF Forwarders (SFFs).

The Performance Policy Identiﬁer Context Header allows for the distributed enforcement of a
per-service policy such as requiring an SFP to only include speciﬁc SF instances (e.g., SFs located
within the same Data Center (DC) or those that are exposing the shortest delay from an SFF).
Details of this process are implementation speciﬁc. For illustration purposes, an SFF may retrieve
the details of usable SFs based upon the corresponding performance policy identiﬁer. Typical
criteria for instantiating speciﬁc SFs include location, performance, or proximity considerations.
For the particular case of UHR services, the standby operation of backup capacity or the presence
of SFs deployed in multiple instances may be requested.

In an environment characterized by frequent changes of link and path behavior (for example,
due to variable load or availability caused by propagation conditions on a wireless link), the SFP
may have to be adapted dynamically by on-the-move SFC path and SF instance selection.

Performance Policy Identiﬁer is deﬁned as an optional Variable-Length Context Header. Its
structure is shown in Figure 2.

The default behavior of intermediary NSH-aware nodes is to preserve such Context Headers (i.e.,
the information can be passed to next-hop NSH-aware nodes), but local policy may require an
intermediary NSH-aware node to strip one Context Header after processing it.

Multiple Performance Policy Identiﬁer Context Headers
carrying an opaque value for a distinct policy that needs to be enforced for a ﬂow. Supplying
conﬂicting policies may complicate the SFP computation and SF instance location. Corresponding
rules to detect conﬂicting policies may be provided as a local policy to the NSH-aware nodes.
When such conﬂict is detected by an NSH-aware node, the default behavior of the node is to
discard the packet and send a notiﬁcation alarm to a Control Element.

 be present in the NSH, each

MAY

Sarikaya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8979

Subscriber/Performance Policy Headers

February 2021

    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |          Metadata Class       |      Type     |U|    Length   |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                                                               |
   ~                     Performance Policy Identifier             ~
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Performance Policy Identiﬁer Variable-Length Context Header

The ﬁelds are described as follows:

Metadata Class:

MUST

 be set to 0x0

[RFC8300]

.

Type:

0x01 (see Section 6).

U bit:

Unassigned bit (see

Section 2.5.1 of [RFC8300]

).

Length:

Indicates the length of the Performance Policy Identiﬁer, in bytes (see

Section 2.5.1 of

[RFC8300]

).

Performance Policy Identiﬁer:

Represents an opaque value pointing to a speciﬁc performance

policy to be enforced. The structure and semantics of this ﬁeld are deployment speciﬁc.

5.  MTU Considerations

As discussed in
information be added to packets to:

Section 5.6 of [RFC7665]

, the SFC architecture prescribes that additional

•

Identify SFPs. This is typically the NSH Base Header (
Path Header (
Section 2.3 of [RFC8300]

).

Section 2.2 of [RFC8300]

) and Service

•

Carry metadata such those deﬁned in Sections 3 and 4.

•

Steer the traﬃc along the SFPs: This is realized by means of transport encapsulation.

This added information increases the size of the packet to be carried along an SFP.

Section 5 of [RFC8300]

Aligned with
underlying MTU so that NSH traﬃc is forwarded within an SFC-enabled domain without
fragmentation. The available underlying MTU should be taken into account by network
operators when providing SFs with the required Context Headers to be injected per SFP and the
size of the data to be carried in these Context Headers.

 for network operators to increase the

RECOMMENDED

, it is

If the underlying MTU cannot be increased to accommodate the NSH overhead, network
operators may rely upon a transport encapsulation protocol with the required fragmentation
handling. The impact of activating such feature on SFFs should be carefully assessed by network
operators (

Section 5.6 of [RFC7665]

).

Sarikaya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8979

Subscriber/Performance Policy Headers

February 2021

When dealing with MTU issues, network operators should consider the limitations of various
transport encapsulations such as those discussed in

[INTAREA-TUNNELS]

.

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned the following types from the "NSH IETF-Assigned Optional Variable-Length
Metadata Types" subregistry (0x0000 IETF Base NSH MD Class) available at:
.
www.iana.org/assignments/nsh>

<https://

Value Description

Reference

0x00

Subscriber Identiﬁer

[RFC8979]

0x01

Performance Policy Identiﬁer

[RFC8979]

Table 1: NSH IETF-Assigned Optional Variable-Length
Metadata Types Additions

7.  Security Considerations

 and

Section 8 of [RFC8300]

Data plane SFC-related security considerations, including privacy, are discussed in
[RFC7665]
 states that
. In particular,
attached metadata (i.e., Context Headers) should be limited to that necessary for correct
operation of the SFP.
Section 8.2.2 of [RFC8300]
operators can take into account when using NSH are discussed in

 indicates that metadata considerations that

Section 8.2.2 of [RFC8300]

.
[RFC8165]

Section 6 of

[RFC8300]

, means to prevent leaking privacy-related information outside an SFC-

As speciﬁed in
enabled domain are natively supported by the NSH given that the last SFF of an SFP will
systematically remove the NSH (and therefore the identiﬁers deﬁned in this speciﬁcation) before
forwarding a packet exiting the SFP.

Nodes that are involved in an SFC-enabled domain are assumed to be trusted (
[RFC8300]
packet is crossing an SFC-enabled domain is out of scope of this document.

). Discussion of means to check that only authorized nodes are traversed when a

Section 1.1 of

Both Subscriber Identiﬁer and Performance Policy Identiﬁer Context Headers carry opaque data.
In particular, the Subscriber Identiﬁer Context Header is locally assigned by a network provider
and can be generated from some of the information that is already conveyed in the original
packets from a host (e.g., internal IP address) or other information that is collected from various
sources within an SFC-enabled domain (e.g., line identiﬁer). The structure of the identiﬁers
conveyed in these Context Headers is communicated only to entitled NSH-aware nodes.
Nevertheless, some structures may be easily inferred from the headers if trivial structures are
used (e.g., IP addresses). As persistent identiﬁers facilitate tracking over time, the use of indirect
and non-persistent identiﬁcation is thus
RECOMMENDED

.

Sarikaya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8979

Subscriber/Performance Policy Headers

February 2021

Moreover, the presence of multiple Subscriber Identiﬁer Context Headers in the same NSH
allows a misbehaving node from within the SFC-enabled domain to bind these identiﬁers to the
same subscriber. This can be used to track that subscriber more eﬀectively. The use of non-
persistent (e.g., regularly randomized) identiﬁers as well as the removal of the Subscriber
Identiﬁer Context Headers from the NSH by the last SF making use of such headers soften this
issue (see "data minimization" discussed in
). Such behavior is especially
strongly recommended in case no encryption is enabled.

Section 3 of [RFC8165]

A misbehaving node from within the SFC-enabled domain may alter the content of Subscriber
Identiﬁer and Performance Policy Identiﬁer Context Headers, which may lead to service
disruption. Such an attack is not unique to the Context Headers deﬁned in this document;
measures discussed in
is speciﬁed in

 are to be followed. A mechanism for NSH integrity

Section 8 of [RFC8300]

[NSH-INTEGRITY]

.

If no secure transport encapsulation is enabled, the use of trivial subscriber identiﬁer structures,
together with the presence of speciﬁc SFs in a Service Function Chain, may reveal sensitive
information to every on-path device. Also, operational staﬀ in teams managing these devices
could gain access to such user privacy-aﬀecting data. Such disclosure can be a violation of legal
requirements because such information should be available to very few network operator
personnel. Furthermore, access to subscriber data usually requires speciﬁc access privilege
levels. To maintain that protection, an SF keeping operational logs should not log the content of
Subscriber and Performance Policy Identiﬁer Context Headers unless the SF actually uses the
content of these headers for its operation. As discussed in
, subscriber-
identifying information should be obfuscated, and, if an operator deems cryptographic integrity
protection is needed, security features in the transport encapsulation protocol (such as IPsec)
must be used. A mechanism for encrypting sensitive NSH data is speciﬁed in
This mechanism can be considered by network operators when enhanced SF-to-SF security
protection of NSH metadata is required (e.g., to protect against compromised SFFs).

Section 8.2.2 of [RFC8300]

.
[NSH-INTEGRITY]

Some events are logged locally with notiﬁcation alerts sent by NSH-aware nodes to a Control
Element. These events

 be rate limited.

SHOULD

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7665]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Halpern, J., Ed. and C. Pignataro, Ed. "Service Function Chaining (SFC)
,
Architecture" RFC 7665 DOI 10.17487/RFC7665
.
editor.org/info/rfc7665>

, October 2015,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Sarikaya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8979

Subscriber/Performance Policy Headers

February 2021

[RFC8300]

Quinn, P., Ed., Elzur, U., Ed., and C. Pignataro, Ed. "Network Service Header
(NSH)" RFC 8300 DOI 10.17487/RFC8300
editor.org/info/rfc8300>

,
, January 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

8.2.  Informative References

[CASE-MOBILITY]

Haeﬀner, W., Napper, J., Stiemerling, M., Lopez, D. R., and J. Uttaro "Service

,

Function Chaining Use Cases in Mobile Networks" Work in Progress Internet-
Draft, draft-ietf-sfc-use-case-mobility-09
<https://tools.ietf.org/
html/draft-ietf-sfc-use-case-mobility-09>

, 1 January 2019,
.

,

,

[INTAREA-TUNNELS]

,
Touch, J. and M. Townsley "IP Tunnels in the Internet Architecture"
, 12 September
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-intarea-tunnels-10
2019,
.
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-intarea-tunnels-10>

,

,

[NSH-INTEGRITY]

Boucadair, M., Reddy.K, T., and D. Wing "Integrity Protection for the
Network Service Header (NSH) and Encryption of Sensitive Context Headers"
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-sfc-nsh-integrity-03
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-sfc-nsh-integrity-03>

,

.

,

, 22 January 2021,

,

[RFC6973]

[RFC8165]

[RFC8371]

[TS23401]

[TS23501]

Cooper, A., Tschofenig, H., Aboba, B., Peterson, J., Morris, J., Hansen, M., and R.
Smith "Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols" RFC 6973 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6973>
RFC6973

, July 2013,

,

,

,

.

Hardie, T. "Design Considerations for Metadata Insertion" RFC 8165 DOI
10.17487/RFC8165

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8165>

, May 2017,

.

,

,

,

Perkins, C. and V. Devarapalli "Mobile Node Identiﬁer Types for MIPv6" RFC
,
8371 DOI 10.17487/RFC8371
rfc8371>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2018,

,

.

,

3GPP "General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access, Release 16"
Version 16.5.0 TS 23.401

, December 2019.

,

,

,

3GPP "System architecture for the 5G System (5GS), Release 16" Version 16.3.0
TS 23.501

, December 2019.

,

,

Acknowledgements

Comments from
appreciated.

Joel Halpern

 on a previous draft version and from

Carlos Bernardos

 are

Christian Jacquenet Danny Lachos Debashish Purkayastha
Contributions and review by
Christian Esteve Rothenberg Kyle Larose Donald Eastlake Qin Wu Shunsuke Homma
,
,
Mirsky

 are thankfully acknowledged.

,

,

,

,

,
, and

Greg

Many thanks to

Robert Sparks

 for the secdir review.

Sarikaya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8979

Subscriber/Performance Policy Headers

February 2021

Thanks to
IESG review.

Barry Leiba Erik Kline Éric Vyncke Robert Wilton

,

,

,

, and

Magnus Westerlund

 for the

Special thanks to
speciﬁcation.

Benjamin Kaduk

 for the careful review and suggestions that enhanced this

Authors' Addresses

Behcet Sarikaya
Email:

 sarikaya@ieee.org

Dirk von Hugo
Deutsche Telekom
Deutsche-Telekom-Allee 9
D-64295 Darmstadt
Germany
Email:

 Dirk.von-Hugo@telekom.de

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
3500 Rennes
France
Email:

 mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Sarikaya, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

