Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8970
Standards Track
December 2020
2070-1721
M. Slusarz
Open-Xchange Inc.

RFC 8970
IMAP4 Extension: Message Preview Generation

Abstract

This document speciﬁes an Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) protocol extension that
allows a client to request a server-generated abbreviated text representation of message data
that is useful as a contextual preview of the entire message.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8970

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Slusarz

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8970

IMAP: PREVIEW Extension

December 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  FETCH Data Item

3.1.  Command

3.2.  Response

3.3.  Preview Text Format

4.  LAZY Priority Modiﬁer

4.1.  LAZY

4.2.  Client Implementation Advice

5.  Examples

6.  Formal Syntax

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

Many modern mail clients display small extracts of the body text as an aid to allow a user to
quickly decide whether they are interested in viewing the full message contents. Mail clients
implementing the
Internet Message Access Protocol [RFC3501]
standardized, consistent way to generate these brief textual previews of messages.

 would beneﬁt from a

Generation of a preview on the server has several beneﬁts. First, it allows consistent
representation of previews across all clients. While diﬀerent clients might generate quite
diﬀerent preview text, having common preview text generated by the server can give a more
consistent user experience to those who use multiple clients.

Slusarz

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8970

IMAP: PREVIEW Extension

December 2020

Second, server-side preview generation is more eﬃcient. A client-based algorithm needs to issue,
at a minimum, a FETCH BODYSTRUCTURE command in order to determine which
 body part(s) should be represented in the preview. Subsequently, at least one FETCH
[RFC2045]
BODY command may be needed to retrieve body data used in preview generation. These FETCH
commands cannot be pipelined since the BODYSTRUCTURE query must be parsed on the client
before the list of parts to be retrieved via the BODY command(s) can be determined.

MIME

text/html [RFC2854]

Additionally, it may be diﬃcult to predict the amount of body data that must be retrieved to
adequately represent the part via a preview, therefore requiring ineﬃcient fetching of excessive
data in order to account for this uncertainty. For example, a preview algorithm to display data
contained in a
content. However, without fetching the entire content of the part, there is no way to guarantee
that suﬃcient non-tag content will exist unless either 1) the entire part is retrieved or 2) an
additional partial FETCH is executed when the client determines that it does not possess
suﬃcient data from a previous partial FETCH to display an adequate representation of the
preview.

 part will likely strip the markup tags to obtain textual

Finally, server generation allows caching in a centralized location. Using server-generated
previews allows global generation once per message, and that preview can be cached for the
retention period of the source message. Retrieval of message data may be expensive within a
server, for example, so a server can be conﬁgured to reduce its storage retrieval load by pre-
generating preview data.

A server indicates support for this extension via the "PREVIEW" capability name.

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

"User" is used to refer to a human user, whereas "client" refers to the software being run by the
user.

In examples, "C:" and "S:" indicate lines sent by the client and server, respectively. If a single "C:"
or "S:" label applies to multiple lines, then the line breaks between those lines are for editorial
clarity only and are not part of the actual protocol exchange.

As with all IMAP extension documents, the case used in writing IMAP protocol elements herein is
chosen for editorial clarity, and implementations must pay attention to the numbered rules at
the beginning of

.
Section 9 of [RFC3501]

Slusarz

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8970

IMAP: PREVIEW Extension

December 2020

3.  FETCH Data Item

3.1.  Command

To retrieve a preview for a message, the PREVIEW FETCH attribute is used when issuing a FETCH
command.

3.2.  Response

The server returns a variable-length string that is the generated preview for that message. This
string is intended to be viewed by the user as a contextual preview of the entire message and is
not intended to be interpreted in any way by the client software.

Example: Retrieving preview information in a SELECTed mailbox.

  C: A1 FETCH 1 (PREVIEW)
  S: * 1 FETCH (PREVIEW "Preview text!")
  S: A1 OK FETCH complete.

SHOULD

 strive to generate the same string for a given message for each request.

A server
However, since previews are understood to be an approximation of the message data and not a
 assume that a message preview is immutable
canonical view of its contents, a client
for a given message. This relaxed requirement permits a server to oﬀer previews as an option
without requiring potentially burdensome storage and/or processing requirements to guarantee
immutability for a use case that does not require this strictness. For example, the underlying
IMAP server may change due to a system software upgrade; an account's state information may
be retained in the migration, but the new server may generate diﬀerent preview text than the old
server.

MUST NOT

It is possible that the server has determined that no meaningful preview text can be generated
for a particular message. Examples of this involve encrypted messages, content types the server
does not support previews of, and other situations where the server is not able to extract
 return a zero-length string. Clients
information for a preview. In such cases, the server
 send another FETCH for a preview for such messages. (As discussed previously,
SHOULD NOT
preview data is not immutable, so there is chance that at some point in the future the server
would be able to generate meaningful text. However, this scenario is expected to be rare, so a
client should not continually send out requests to try to detect this infrequent occurrence.)

MUST

LAZY modiﬁer (Section 4.1)

If the
indicating that preview generation could not be completed without causing undue delay. A
server

 return NIL to a FETCH PREVIEW request made without the LAZY modiﬁer.

 return NIL for the preview response,

 is used, the server

MUST NOT

MAY

Slusarz

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8970

IMAP: PREVIEW Extension

December 2020

3.3.  Preview Text Format

The generated preview text
client.

MUST

 be treated as

text/plain [RFC2046]

 media type data by the

The generated string
[RFC3629]
SHOULD
might be useful in rendering the preview as plain text.

. The server

MUST NOT

UTF-8
 be content transfer encoded and
 remove any formatting markup and do whatever processing

 be encoded in

MUST

For purposes of this section, a "preview character" is deﬁned as a single Universal Character Set
(UCS) character encoded in UTF-8. Note: a single preview character may comprise multiple
octets, so any buﬀers implemented to conform to the string limitations identiﬁed in this
document should be sized to prevent possible overﬂow errors.

SHOULD

The server
 limit the length of the preview text to 200 preview characters. This length
should provide suﬃcient data to generally support both various languages (and their diﬀerent
average word lengths) and diverse client display size requirements.

The server

MUST NOT

 output preview text longer than 256 preview characters.

 is supported by the server, the preview text

If the preview is not generated based on the body content of the message, and the
extension [RFC5255]
to the language rules that apply to human-readable text. For example, a message that consists of
a single image MIME part has no human-readable text from which to generate preview
information. Instead, the server may wish to output a description that the message contains an
image and describe some attributes of the image, such as image format, size, and ﬁlename. This
descriptive text is not a product of the message body itself but is rather auto-generated data by
the server; it should thus use the rules deﬁned for human-readable text described in the
LANGUAGE extension (if supported on the server).

LANGUAGE

 be generated according

SHOULD

4.  LAZY Priority Modiﬁer

4.1.  LAZY

The LAZY modiﬁer directs the server to return the preview representation only if that data can
be returned without undue delay to the client.

If this modiﬁer is used, and the server is unable to return preview data without undue delay, the
server

 return NIL as the preview response.

MUST

The LAZY modiﬁer

MUST

 be implemented by any server that supports the PREVIEW extension.

4.2.  Client Implementation Advice

Upon opening a mailbox, a client generally performs a FETCH of message details in order to
create a listing to present to the user (e.g., ENVELOPE data). Using this extension, a client may
want to additionally display preview information as part of this listing. Quickly providing the

Slusarz

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8970

IMAP: PREVIEW Extension

December 2020

base mailbox listing with basic message details is the primary goal of this command as this is
required to allow the user to begin interacting with the mailbox. Preview data is likely to be of
secondary importance; it provides useful context, but it is not necessary to perform message
actions. A client can load unavailable previews in the background and display them
asynchronously to the user as the preview data is provided by the server.

In this scenario, the client would add the PREVIEW data item, with the LAZY modiﬁer, to the list
of FETCH items needed to generate the mailbox listing. This allows the server to advantageously
return preview data without blocking the primary goal of quickly returning the basic message
details used to generate the mailbox listing.

Once this initial FETCH is complete, the client can then issue FETCH requests, without the LAZY
modiﬁer, to load the PREVIEW data item for the messages in which preview data was not
returned. It is
messages per FETCH command, since preview generation may be expensive and a single large
request may exceed server resource limits.

 that these FETCH requests be issued in small batches, e.g., 50

RECOMMENDED

See Example 2 in Section 5 for an implementation of this strategy.

SHOULD NOT

 continually issue FETCH PREVIEW requests with the LAZY modiﬁer in a
A client
selected mailbox as the server is under no requirement to return preview information for this
command, which could lead to an unnecessary waste of system and network resources.

5.  Examples

Example 1: Requesting preview without LAZY modiﬁer.

  C: A1 CAPABILITY
  S: * CAPABILITY IMAP4rev1 PREVIEW
  S: A1 OK Capability command completed.
  [...a mailbox is SELECTed...]
  C: A2 FETCH 1 (RFC822.SIZE PREVIEW)
  S: * 1 FETCH (RFC822.SIZE 5647 PREVIEW {200}
  S: Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit.
  S: Curabitur aliquam turpis et ante dictum, et pulvinar dui congue.
  S: Maecenas hendrerit, lorem non imperdiet pellentesque, nulla
  S: ligula nullam
  S: )
  S: A2 OK FETCH complete.

Slusarz

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8970

IMAP: PREVIEW Extension

December 2020

Example 2: Requesting preview with LAZY modiﬁer, to obtain previews during initial mailbox
listing if readily available; otherwise, load previews in background.

  C: B1 FETCH 1:4 (ENVELOPE PREVIEW (LAZY))
  S: * 1 FETCH (ENVELOPE ("Wed, 23 Sep 2020 15:03:11 +0000" [...])
     PREVIEW "Preview text for message 1.")
  S: * 2 FETCH (PREVIEW "" ENVELOPE
     ("Thu, 24 Sep 2020 12:17:23 +0000" [...]))
  S: * 3 FETCH (ENVELOPE ("Fri, 25 Sep 2020 09:13:45 +0000" [...])
     PREVIEW NIL)
  S: * 4 FETCH (ENVELOPE ("Sat, 26 Sep 2020 07:11:18 +0000" [...])
     PREVIEW NIL)
  S: B1 OK FETCH completed.
  [...Client has preview for message 1 and knows that message 2 has
      a preview that is empty; only need to request preview of
      messages 3 & 4 (e.g., in background)...]
  C: B2 FETCH 3:4 (PREVIEW)
  S: * 3 FETCH (PREVIEW {30}
  S: Message data from message 3.
  S: )
  S: * 4 FETCH (PREVIEW "Message 4 preview")
  S: B2 OK Fetch completed.

Example 3: Requesting preview for search results within a single mailbox. Use the
extension [RFC5182]

 to save a round-trip.

SEARCHRES

  C: C1 CAPABILITY
  S: * CAPABILITY IMAP4rev1 PREVIEW SEARCHRES
  S: C1 OK Capability command completed.
  [...a mailbox is SELECTed...]
  C: C2 SEARCH RETURN (SAVE) FROM "FOO"
  C: C3 FETCH $ (UID PREVIEW (LAZY))
  S: C2 OK SEARCH completed.
  S: * 5 FETCH (UID 13 PREVIEW "Preview!")
  S: * 9 FETCH (UID 23 PREVIEW NIL)
  S: C3 OK FETCH completed.
  [...Retrieve message 9 preview in background...]
  C: C4 UID FETCH 23 (PREVIEW)
  S: * 9 FETCH (UID 23 PREVIEW "Another preview!")
  S: C4 OK FETCH completed.

Slusarz

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8970

IMAP: PREVIEW Extension

December 2020

6.  Formal Syntax

The following syntax speciﬁcation uses the Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) as described
in

. It includes deﬁnitions from

.
IMAP [RFC3501]

[RFC5234]

  capability        =/ "PREVIEW"

  fetch-att         =/ "PREVIEW" [SP "(" preview-mod *(SP
                       preview-mod) ")"]

  msg-att-dynamic   =/ "PREVIEW" SP nstring

  preview-mod       =  "LAZY"

7.  IANA Considerations

 capabilities are registered by publishing a Standards Track or IESG-approved

IMAP [RFC3501]
Experimental RFC in the "IMAP Capabilities" registry located at
assignments/imap-capabilities>
.

<http://www.iana.org/

IANA has added the "PREVIEW" capability to this registry.

8.  Security Considerations

Implementation of this extension might enable denial-of-service attacks against server resources,
due to excessive memory or CPU usage during preview generation or increased storage usage if
preview results are stored on the server after generation. In order to mitigate such attacks,
servers
facilitate tracking of abusive clients.

 log the client authentication identity on FETCH PREVIEW operations in order to

SHOULD

MAY

 limit the resources that preview generation uses. Such resource limitations might,

Servers
in an extreme example, cause a server to return a preview that is the empty string for a message
that otherwise would have had a non-empty preview. However, it is recommended that at least
some preview text be provided in this situation, even if the quality of the preview is degraded.

Just as the messages they summarize, preview data may contain sensitive information. If
generated preview data is stored on the server, e.g., for caching purposes, these previews
MUST
be protected with equivalent authorization and conﬁdentiality controls as the source message.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2046]

Slusarz

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8970

IMAP: PREVIEW Extension

December 2020

,
Freed, N. and N. Borenstein "Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
, November 1996,
Part Two: Media Types" RFC 2046 DOI 10.17487/RFC2046
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2046>

,

,

.

[RFC2119]

[RFC3501]

[RFC3629]

[RFC5234]

[RFC5255]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Crispin, M. "INTERNET MESSAGE ACCESS PROTOCOL - VERSION 4rev1" RFC
,
3501 DOI 10.17487/RFC3501
rfc3501>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2003,

.

,

,
Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

.

,

,

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

Newman, C., Gulbrandsen, A., and A. Melnikov "Internet Message Access
,
Protocol Internationalization" RFC 5255 DOI 10.17487/RFC5255
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5255>

, June 2008,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC2045]

[RFC2854]

[RFC5182]

Freed, N. and N. Borenstein "Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
Part One: Format of Internet Message Bodies" RFC 2045 DOI 10.17487/RFC2045
November 1996,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2045>

,

,

,

.

,

Connolly, D. and L. Masinter "The 'text/html' Media Type" RFC 2854 DOI
.
10.17487/RFC2854

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2854>

,
, June 2000,

,

,

,

Melnikov, A. "IMAP Extension for Referencing the Last SEARCH Result" RFC
,
5182 DOI 10.17487/RFC5182
rfc5182>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2008,

.

,

Acknowledgments

The author would like to thank the following people for their comments and contributions to this
,
document:
Barry Leiba Alexey Melnikov Chris Newman Pete Resnick Jeﬀ Sipek Timo Sirainen Steﬀen
,
Templin

Stephan Bosch Bron Gondwana Teemu Huovila Neil Jenkins Steﬀen Lehmann
,
, and

Aki Tuomi
.

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Slusarz

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8970

IMAP: PREVIEW Extension

December 2020

Author's Address

Michael M. Slusarz
Open-Xchange Inc.
530 Lytton Avenue
Palo Alto California 94301
,
United States of America
Email:

 michael.slusarz@open-xchange.com

Slusarz

Standards Track

Page 10

