Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8854
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
J. Uberti
Google

RFC 8854
WebRTC Forward Error Correction Requirements

Abstract

This document provides information and requirements for the use of Forward Error Correction
(FEC) by WebRTC implementations.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8854

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Uberti

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8854

WebRTC FEC

January 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Types of FEC

3.1.  Separate FEC Stream

3.2.  Redundant Encoding

3.3.  Codec-Speciﬁc In-Band FEC

4.  FEC for Audio Content

4.1.  Recommended Mechanism

4.2.  Negotiating Support

5.  FEC for Video Content

5.1.  Recommended Mechanism

5.2.  Negotiating Support

6.  FEC for Application Content

7.  Implementation Requirements

8.  Adaptive Use of FEC

9.  Security Considerations

10. IANA Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

Uberti

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8854

WebRTC FEC

January 2021

1.  Introduction

In situations where packet loss is high, or perfect media quality is essential, Forward Error
Correction (FEC) can be used to proactively recover from packet losses. This speciﬁcation
provides guidance on which FEC mechanisms to use, and how to use them, for WebRTC
implementations.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Types of FEC

FEC describes the sending of redundant information in an outgoing packet stream so that
information can still be recovered even in the event of packet loss. There are multiple ways this
can be accomplished for RTP media streams
mechanisms available and describes their trade-oﬀs.

; this section enumerates the various

[RFC3550]

3.1.  Separate FEC Stream

[RFC5956], Section 4.3

This approach, as described in
 and payload type, multiplexed
stream with its own synchronization source (SSRC)
with the primary encoding. While this approach can protect multiple packets of the primary
encoding with a single FEC packet, each FEC packet will have its own IP/UDP/RTP/FEC header,
and this overhead can be excessive in some cases, e.g., when protecting each primary packet
with a FEC packet.

, sends FEC packets as an independent RTP

[RFC3550]

This approach allows for recovery of entire RTP packets, including the full RTP header.

3.2.  Redundant Encoding

[RFC2198]

This approach, as described in
existing primary encoding, all in a single packet. This redundant data may be an exact copy of a
previous payload, or for codecs that support variable-bitrate encodings, the redundant data may
possibly be a smaller, lower-quality representation. In certain cases, the redundant data could
include encodings of multiple prior audio frames.

, allows for redundant data to be piggybacked on an

Since there is only a single set of packet headers, this approach allows for a very eﬃcient
representation of primary and redundant data. However, this savings is only realized when the
data all ﬁts into a single packet (i.e. the size is less than a MTU). As a result, this approach is
generally not useful for video content.

Uberti

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8854

WebRTC FEC

January 2021

[RFC2198], Section 4

As described in
header, including the marker bit, contributing source (CSRC) information, and header
extensions.

, this approach cannot recover certain parts of the RTP

3.3.  Codec-Speciﬁc In-Band FEC

Some audio codecs, notably Opus
, support
their own in-band FEC mechanism, where redundant data is included in the codec payload. This
is similar to the redundant encoding mechanism described above, but as it adds no additional
framing, it can be slightly more eﬃcient.

 and Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR)

[RFC4867]

[RFC6716]

For Opus, audio frames deemed important are re-encoded at a lower bitrate and appended to the
next payload, allowing partial recovery of a lost packet. This scheme is fairly eﬃcient;
experiments performed indicate that when Opus FEC is used, the overhead imposed is only
about 20-30%, depending on the amount of protection needed. Note that this mechanism can
only carry redundancy information for the immediately preceding audio frame; thus the decoder
cannot fully recover multiple consecutive lost packets, which can be a problem on wireless
networks. See
details.

this Opus mailing list post [OpusFEC]

[RFC6716], Section 2.1.7

 for more

, and

For AMR and AMR-Wideband (AMR-WB), packets can contain copies or lower-quality encodings
of multiple prior audio frames. See
[RFC4867], Section 3.7.1

, for details on this mechanism.

In-band FEC mechanisms cannot recover any of the RTP header.

4.  FEC for Audio Content

The following section provides guidance on how to best use FEC for transmitting audio data. As
indicated in Section 8 below, FEC should only be activated if network conditions warrant it, or
upon explicit application request.

4.1.  Recommended Mechanism

When using variable-bitrate codecs without an internal FEC, redundant encoding (as described
in Section 3.2) with lower-ﬁdelity version(s) of the previous packet(s) is
provides reasonable protection of the payload with only moderate bitrate increase, as the
redundant encodings can be signiﬁcantly smaller than the primary encoding.

RECOMMENDED

. This

When using the Opus codec, use of the built-in Opus FEC mechanism is
provides reasonable protection of the audio stream against individual losses, with minimal
overhead. Note that, as indicated above, the built-in Opus FEC only provides single-frame
redundancy; if multi-packet protection is needed, the aforementioned redundant encoding with
reduced-bitrate Opus encodings

 be used instead.

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

. This

When using the AMR/AMR-WB codecs, use of their built-in FEC mechanism is
RECOMMENDED
This provides slightly more eﬃcient protection of the audio stream than redundant encoding
does.

.

Uberti

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8854

WebRTC FEC

January 2021

When using constant-bitrate codecs, e.g., PCMU
this will result in a potentially signiﬁcant bitrate increase, and suddenly increasing bitrate to
deal with losses from congestion may actually make things worse.

, redundant encoding

[RFC5391]

MAY

 be used, but

Because of the lower packet rate of audio encodings, usually a single packet per frame, use of a
separate FEC stream comes with a higher overhead than other mechanisms, and therefore is
.
RECOMMENDED

NOT

As mentioned above, the recommended mechanisms do not allow recovery of parts of the RTP
header that may be important in certain audio applications, e.g., CSRCs and RTP header
extensions like those speciﬁed in
for this and attempt to approximate this information, using an approach similar to those
described in

[RFC2198], Section 4

[RFC6464], Section 5

. Implementations

[RFC6465]

[RFC6464]

 account

SHOULD

, and

 and

.

4.2.  Negotiating Support

[RFC2198]

Support for redundant encoding of a given RTP stream
red
oﬀer
red media type in the corresponding "m=" section in the SDP answer.

[RFC3264]

SHOULD

 as an additional supported media type for the associated "m=" section in the SDP

. Answerers can reject the use of redundant encoding by not including the audio/

 be indicated by including audio/

Support for codec-speciﬁc FEC mechanisms are typically indicated via "a=fmtp" parameters.

For Opus, a receiver
"useinbandfec=1" parameter, as speciﬁed in
negotiated separately for either media direction.

MUST

 indicate that it is prepared to use incoming FEC data with the

[RFC7587]

. This parameter is declarative and can be

For AMR/AMR-WB, support for redundant encoding, and the maximum supported depth, are
controlled by the "max-red" parameter, as speciﬁed in
MUST
, Table 6.3.
include this parameter, and set it to an appropriate value, as speciﬁed in

[RFC4867], Section 8.1

. Receivers

[TS.26114]

5.  FEC for Video Content

The following section provides guidance on how to best use FEC for transmitting video data. As
indicated in Section 8 below, FEC should only be activated if network conditions warrant it, or
upon explicit application request.

5.1.  Recommended Mechanism

Video frames, due to their size, often require multiple RTP packets. As discussed above, a
separate FEC stream can protect multiple packets with a single FEC packet. In addition, the
Flexible FEC mechanism described in
 is also capable of protecting multiple RTP
streams via a single FEC stream, including all the streams that are part of a BUNDLE group
[RFC8843]
payload format is

. As a result, for video content, use of a separate FEC stream with the Flexible FEC RTP

RECOMMENDED

[RFC8627]

.

Uberti

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8854

WebRTC FEC

January 2021

To process the incoming FEC stream, the receiver can demultiplex it by SSRC, and then correlate
it with the appropriate primary stream(s) via the CSRC(s) present in the RTP header of Flexible
FEC repair packets, or the SSRC ﬁeld present in the FEC header of Flexible FEC retransmission
packets.

5.2.  Negotiating Support

Support for an SSRC-multiplexed Flexible FEC stream to protect a given RTP stream
indicated by including video/ﬂexfec (described in
supported media type for the associated "m=" section in the SDP oﬀer
. As mentioned
above, when BUNDLE is used, only a single Flexible FEC repair stream will be created for each
BUNDLE group, even if Flexible FEC is negotiated for each primary stream.

[RFC8627], Section 5.1.2

) as an additional

[RFC3264]

SHOULD

 be

Answerers can reject the use of SSRC-multiplexed FEC by not including the video/ﬂexfec media
type in the corresponding "m=" section in the SDP answer.

Use of FEC-only "m=" lines, and grouping using the SDP group mechanism as described in
[RFC5956], Section 4.1

, is not currently deﬁned for WebRTC, and

SHOULD NOT

 be oﬀered.

SHOULD

Answerers
such a thing in a WebRTC context (perhaps deﬁned by a future version of the WebRTC
speciﬁcations).

 reject any FEC-only "m=" lines, unless they speciﬁcally know how to handle

6.  FEC for Application Content

WebRTC also supports the ability to send generic application data, and provides transport-level
retransmission mechanisms to support full and partial (e.g., timed) reliability. See
 for
details.

[RFC8831]

Because the application can control exactly what data to send, it has the ability to monitor packet
statistics and perform its own application-level FEC if necessary.

As a result, this document makes no recommendations regarding FEC for the underlying data
transport.

7.  Implementation Requirements

To support the functionality recommended above, implementations
 indicate this
make use of the relevant FEC formats for their supported audio codecs, and
support, as described in Section 4. Use of these formats when sending, as mentioned above, is
.
RECOMMENDED

 be able to receive and

MUST

MUST

The general FEC mechanism described in
Section 5.

[RFC8627] SHOULD

 also be supported, as mentioned in

Implementations

MAY

 support additional FEC mechanisms if desired, e.g.,

.
[RFC5109]

Uberti

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8854

WebRTC FEC

January 2021

8.  Adaptive Use of FEC

Because use of FEC always causes redundant data to be transmitted, and the total amount of data
must remain within any bandwidth limits indicated by congestion control and the receiver, this
will lead to less bandwidth available for the primary encoding, even when the redundant data is
not being used. This is in contrast to methods like RTX
 or Flexible FEC's retransmission
), which only transmit redundant data when necessary, at the cost
mode (
of an extra round trip and thereby increased media latency.

[RFC8627], Section 1.1.7

[RFC4588]

SHOULD

 only transmit the amount of FEC needed to protect against the observed packet loss

Given this, WebRTC implementations
instead of FEC when the connection RTT is within the application's latency budget, and otherwise
SHOULD
(which can be determined, e.g., by monitoring transmit packet loss data from RTP Control
Protocol (RTCP) receiver reports
[RFC3550]
quality penalty to proactively avoid losses.

), unless the application indicates it is willing to pay a

 prefer using RTX or Flexible FEC retransmissions

Note that when probing bandwidth, i.e., speculatively sending extra data to determine if
 be used as the additional data. Given that extra
additional link capacity exists, FEC data
SHOULD
data is going to be sent regardless, it makes sense to have that data protect the primary payload;
in addition, FEC can typically be applied in a way that increases bandwidth only modestly, which
is necessary when probing.

When using FEC with layered codecs, e.g.,
the decoding of future frames, implementations
frames.

[RFC6386]

, where only base layer frames are critical to
 only apply FEC to these base layer

SHOULD

Finally, it should be noted that, although applying redundancy is often useful in protecting a
stream against packet loss, if the loss is caused by network congestion, the additional bandwidth
used by the redundant data may actually make the situation worse and can lead to signiﬁcant
degradation of the network.

9.  Security Considerations

In the WebRTC context, FEC is speciﬁcally concerned with recovering data from lost packets; any
corrupted packets will be discarded by the Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol (SRTP)
[RFC3711]
processing when using FEC with SRTP is to perform FEC followed by SRTP at the sender, and
SRTP followed by FEC at the receiver. This ordering is used for all the SRTP protection proﬁles
used in DTLS-SRTP

 decryption process. Therefore, as described in

, which are enumerated in

.
[RFC5764], Section 4.1.2

[RFC3711], Section 10

, the default

[RFC5763]

Additional security considerations for each individual FEC mechanism are enumerated in their
respective documents.

Uberti

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8854

WebRTC FEC

January 2021

10.  IANA Considerations

This document requires no actions from IANA.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2198]

[RFC3264]

[RFC4867]

[RFC5956]

[RFC7587]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8627]

[TS.26114]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Perkins, C., Kouvelas, I., Hodson, O., Hardman, V., Handley, M., Bolot, J.C., Vega-
Garcia, A., and S. Fosse-Parisis "RTP Payload for Redundant Audio Data" RFC
,
2198 DOI 10.17487/RFC2198
rfc2198>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 1997,

,

,

.

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

,

,

.

,

Sjoberg, J., Westerlund, M., Lakaniemi, A., and Q. Xie "RTP Payload Format and
File Storage Format for the Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) and Adaptive Multi-Rate
Wideband (AMR-WB) Audio Codecs" RFC 4867 DOI 10.17487/RFC4867
2007,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4867>

, April

,

,

,

Begen, A. "Forward Error Correction Grouping Semantics in the Session
Description Protocol" RFC 5956 DOI 10.17487/RFC5956
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5956>

, September 2010,

,

,

.

Spittka, J., Vos, K., and JM. Valin "RTP Payload Format for the Opus Speech and
,
Audio Codec" RFC 7587 DOI 10.17487/RFC7587
.
editor.org/info/rfc7587>

<https://www.rfc-

, June 2015,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Zanaty, M., Singh, V., Begen, A., and G. Mandyam "RTP Payload Format for
Flexible Forward Error Correction (FEC)" RFC 8627 DOI 10.17487/RFC8627
2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8627>

,

,

.

,

, July

,

3GPP "IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony; Media handling
and interaction" 3GPP TS 26.114 15.0.0
www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/html-info/26114.htm>

, 22 September 2017,

<http://

,

.

11.2.  Informative References

Uberti

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8854

WebRTC FEC

January 2021

[OpusFEC]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3711]

[RFC4588]

[RFC5109]

[RFC5391]

[RFC5763]

[RFC5764]

[RFC6386]

[RFC6464]

[RFC6465]

[RFC6716]

Terriberry, T. "Subject: Opus FEC" message to the opus mailing list
,
2013,

<http://lists.xiph.org/pipermail/opus/2013-January/001904.html>

,

.

, 28 January

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
,
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

,

,

.

,

Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K. Norrman "The Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, March

,
.

,

,

Rey, J., Leon, D., Miyazaki, A., Varsa, V., and R. Hakenberg "RTP Retransmission
<https://www.rfc-
Payload Format" RFC 4588 DOI 10.17487/RFC4588
.
editor.org/info/rfc4588>

, July 2006,

,

,

,

,

Li, A., Ed. "RTP Payload Format for Generic Forward Error Correction" RFC
, December 2007,
,
5109 DOI 10.17487/RFC5109
rfc5109>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

.

,

,
Sollaud, A. "RTP Payload Format for ITU-T Recommendation G.711.1" RFC 5391
DOI 10.17487/RFC5391
rfc5391>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2008,

.

,

,

,
Fischl, J., Tschofenig, H., and E. Rescorla "Framework for Establishing a Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) Security Context Using Datagram Transport
,
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 5763 DOI 10.17487/RFC5763
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5763>

, May 2010,

<https://

,

McGrew, D. and E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)"
RFC 5764 DOI 10.17487/RFC5764
rfc5764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2010,

,
.

,

,

Bankoski, J., Koleszar, J., Quillio, L., Salonen, J., Wilkins, P., and Y. Xu "VP8 Data
,
Format and Decoding Guide" RFC 6386 DOI 10.17487/RFC6386
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6386>

, November 2011,

,

.

,

,
Lennox, J., Ed., Ivov, E., and E. Marocco "A Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP)
Header Extension for Client-to-Mixer Audio Level Indication" RFC 6464 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6464>
10.17487/RFC6464

, December 2011,

,

,

.

Ivov, E., Ed., Marocco, E., Ed., and J. Lennox "A Real-time Transport Protocol
(RTP) Header Extension for Mixer-to-Client Audio Level Indication" RFC 6465
DOI 10.17487/RFC6465
rfc6465>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2011,

,

.

,

,

Valin, JM., Vos, K., and T. Terriberry "Deﬁnition of the Opus Audio Codec" RFC
,
6716 DOI 10.17487/RFC6716
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc6716>

, September 2012,

.

,

,

Uberti

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8854

WebRTC FEC

January 2021

[RFC8831]

[RFC8843]

Jesup, R., Loreto, S., and M. Tüxen "WebRTC Data Channels" RFC 8831 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8831>
10.17487/RFC8831
.

, January 2021,

,

,

Holmberg, C., Alvestrand, H., and C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8843 DOI 10.17487/RFC8843
January 2021,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8843>
.

,
,

,

Acknowledgements

Several people provided signiﬁcant input into this document, including
Lennox Giri Mandyam Varun Singh Tim Terriberry Magnus Westerlund
,

Bernard Aboba Jonathan
Mo Zanaty

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Author's Address

Justin Uberti
Google
747 6th St S
Kirkland WA 98033
,
United States of America
Email:

 justin@uberti.name

Uberti

Standards Track

Page 10

