Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8741
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721

A. Raghuram
AT&T

A. Goddard
AT&T

J. Karthik
Cisco Systems, Inc.

S. Sivabalan
Cisco Systems, Inc.

M. Negi
Huawei Technologies

RFC 8741
Ability for a Stateful Path Computation Element
(PCE) to Request and Obtain Control of a Label
Switched Path (LSP)

Abstract

A stateful Path Computation Element (PCE) retains information about the placement of
Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Traﬃc Engineering Label Switched Paths (TE LSPs). When
a PCE has stateful control over LSPs, it may send indications to LSP head-ends to modify the
attributes (especially the paths) of the LSPs. A Path Computation Client (PCC) that has set up LSPs
under local conﬁguration may delegate control of those LSPs to a stateful PCE.

There are use cases in which a stateful PCE may wish to obtain control of locally conﬁgured LSPs
that it is aware of but have not been delegated to the PCE.

This document describes an extension to the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
(PCEP) to enable a PCE to make requests for such control.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8741

.

Raghuram, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8741

LSP Control Request

March 2020

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Raghuram, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8741

LSP Control Request

March 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Requirements Language

3.  LSP Control Request Flag

4.  Operation

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Manageability Considerations

7.1.  Control of Function and Policy

7.2.  Information and Data Models

7.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

7.4.  Verify Correct Operations

7.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

7.6.  Impact on Network Operations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

"Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE"
[RFC8231]
Engineering Label Switched Paths (TE LSPs) between and across PCEP sessions in compliance
. It includes mechanisms to synchronize LSP state between Path Computation
with

 speciﬁes a set of extensions to PCEP

 to enable stateful control of Traﬃc

[RFC5440]

[RFC4657]

Raghuram, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8741

LSP Control Request

March 2020

Clients (PCCs) and PCEs, delegate control of LSPs to PCEs, and allow PCEs to control the timing
and sequence of path computations within and across PCEP sessions. The stateful PCEP deﬁnes
the following two useful network operations:

Delegation:

[RFC8051]

, an operation to grant a PCE temporary rights to modify a subset
As per
of LSP parameters on one or more LSPs of a PCC. LSPs are delegated from a PCC to
a PCE and are referred to as "delegated" LSPs.

Revocation:

[RFC8231]

As per
Revocation revokes the rights granted to the PCE in the delegation operation.

, an operation performed by a PCC on a previously delegated LSP.

Section 5.7.4 of [RFC8231]

For redundant stateful PCEs (
redundant PCEs might want to request to take control over an LSP. The redundant PCEs may use
a local policy or a proprietary election mechanism to decide which PCE would take control. In
this case, a mechanism is needed for a stateful PCE to request control of one or more LSPs from a
PCC so that a newly elected primary PCE can request to take over control.

), during a PCE failure, one of the

In case of virtualized PCEs (vPCEs) running in virtual network function (VNF) mode, as the
computation load in the network increases, a new instance of vPCE could be instantiated to
balance the current load. The PCEs could use a proprietary algorithm to decide which LSPs can
be assigned to the new vPCE. Thus, having a mechanism for the PCE to request control of some
LSPs is needed.

In some deployments, the operator would like to use stateful PCE for global optimization
algorithms but would still like to keep the control of the LSP at the PCC. In such cases, a stateful
PCE could request to take control during the global optimization and return the delegation once
done.

[RFC8231]

Note that
PCE. The mechanism deﬁned in this document can be used in conjunction with
Ultimately, it is the PCC that decides which PCE to delegate the orphaned LSP to.

 speciﬁes a mechanism for a PCC to delegate an orphaned LSP to another

.
[RFC8231]

This speciﬁcation provides a simple extension that allows a PCE to request control of one or more
LSPs from any PCC over the stateful PCEP session. The procedures for granting and relinquishing
control of the LSPs are speciﬁed in accordance with
document.

 unless explicitly set aside in this

[RFC8231]

2.  Terminology

This document uses the following terms deﬁned in

[RFC5440]

:

PCC:

Path Computation Client

PCE:

Path Computation Element

PCEP:

Path Computation Element communication Protocol

This document uses the following terms deﬁned in

[RFC8231]

:

Raghuram, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8741

LSP Control Request

March 2020

PCRpt:

Path Computation State Report message

PCUpd:

Path Computation Update Request message

PLSP-ID:

A PCEP-speciﬁc identiﬁer for the LSP

SRP:

Stateful PCE Request Parameters

Readers of this document are expected to have some familiarity with

.
[RFC8231]

2.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  LSP Control Request Flag

The Stateful PCE Request Parameters (SRP) object is deﬁned in
includes a Flags ﬁeld.

Section 7.2 of [RFC8231]

 and

A new "LSP Control Request" ﬂag (30), also called the C ﬂag, is introduced in the SRP object. In a
PCUpd message, a PCE sets the C ﬂag to 1 to indicate that it wishes to gain control of LSPs. The
LSPs are identiﬁed by the PLSP-ID in the LSP object following the SRP object. A PLSP-ID value
other than 0 and 0xFFFFF is used to identify the LSP for which the PCE requests control. A PLSP-
ID value of 0 indicates that the PCE is requesting control of all LSPs originating from the PCC that
it wishes to delegate. The C ﬂag has no meaning in other PCEP messages that carry SRP objects
 be set to 0 on transmission and
and for which the C ﬂag

 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

MUST

The C ﬂag is ignored in case the R ﬂag

[RFC8281]

 in the SRP object is set.

4.  Operation

Section 7.3 of [RFC8231]

During normal operation, a PCC that wishes to delegate the control of an LSP sets the Delegate (D)
ﬂag (
the delegation by setting the D ﬂag to 1 in all PCUpd messages pertaining to the LSP. The PCC
revokes the control of the LSP from the PCE by setting the D ﬂag to 0 in PCRpt messages
pertaining to the LSP. If the PCE wishes to relinquish the control of the LSP, it sets the D ﬂag to 0
in all PCUpd messages pertaining to the LSP.

) to 1 in all PCRpt messages pertaining to the LSP. The PCE conﬁrms

If a PCE wishes to gain control over an LSP, it sends a PCUpd message with the C ﬂag set to 1 in
the SRP object. The LSP for which the PCE requests control is identiﬁed by the PLSP-ID in the
associated LSP object. A PLSP-ID value of 0 indicates that the PCE wants control over all LSPs
originating from the PCC. An implementation of this feature needs to make sure to check for the
LSP control feature (C ﬂag set to 1) before any check for PLSP-ID (as per
 send a control request
and C ﬂag are mutually exclusive in a PCUpd message. The PCE
for the LSP that is already delegated to the PCE, i.e., if the D ﬂag is set in the PCUpd message, then

). The D ﬂag

[RFC8231]

MUST NOT

Raghuram, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8741

LSP Control Request

March 2020

MUST

MUST NOT

 be set. If a PCC receives a PCUpd message with the D ﬂag set in the LSP

 ignore the C ﬂag. A PCC can decide to delegate the control of the LSP at its

the C ﬂag
object (i.e., LSP is already delegated) and the C ﬂag is also set (i.e., PCE is making a control
request), the PCC
own discretion. If the PCC grants or denies the control, it sends a PCRpt message with the D ﬂag
set to 1 and 0, respectively, in accordance with stateful PCEP
the control, it
control, preferably using an exponentially increasing timer. Note that, if the PCUpd message with
the C ﬂag set is received for a currently non-delegated LSP (for which the PCE is requesting
delegation), this
 trigger the error handling as speciﬁed in
Error-type=19 (Invalid Operation) and error-value 1 (Attempted LSP Update Request for a non-
delegated LSP)).

 choose to not respond, and the PCE

 choose to retry requesting the

. If the PCC does not grant

 (a PCErr with

[RFC8231]

[RFC8231]

MUST NOT

MAY

MAY

[RFC8231]

, a PCC cannot delegate an LSP to more than one PCE at any time. If a PCE

As per
requests control of an LSP that has already been delegated by the PCC to another PCE, the PCC
 revoke the delegation to the ﬁrst PCE before delegating it to the
MAY
second. This choice is a matter of local policy.

 ignore the request or

MAY

It should be noted that a legacy implementation of PCC that does not support this extension may
receive an LSP control request: a PCUpd message with the C ﬂag set and the D ﬂag unset. The
legacy implementation would ignore the C ﬂag and trigger the error condition for the D ﬂag, as
speciﬁed in
(Attempted LSP Update Request for a non-delegated LSP)). Further, in case of a PLSP-ID value of
0, the error condition, as speciﬁed in
, (i.e., a PCErr with Error-type=19 (Invalid
Operation) and error-value 3 (Attempted LSP Update Request for an LSP identiﬁed by an
unknown PLSP-ID)) would be triggered.

 (i.e., a PCErr with Error-type=19 (Invalid Operation) and error-value 1

[RFC8231]

[RFC8231]

 describes the setup, maintenance, and teardown of PCE-initiated LSPs under the

[RFC8281]
stateful PCE model. It also speciﬁes how a PCE may obtain control over an orphaned LSP that was
PCE-initiated. A PCE implementation can apply the mechanism described in this document in
conjunction with those in

.
[RFC8281]

5.  Security Considerations

[RFC8231]

The security considerations listed in
 and
However, this document also introduces a new attack vector. An attacker may ﬂood the PCC with
requests to delegate all of its LSPs at a rate that exceeds the PCC's ability to process them, either
by spooﬁng messages or by compromising the PCE itself. The PCC
 be conﬁgured with a
threshold rate for the delegation requests received from the PCE. If the threshold is reached, it is
RECOMMENDED

 apply to this document as well.

 to log the issue.

[RFC8281]

SHOULD

A PCC is the ultimate arbiter of delegation. As per
inﬂuence the delegation. A PCC can also revoke the delegation at any time. A PCC need not
blindly trust the control requests and
consideration before honoring the request.

 take local policy and other factors into

, a local policy at the PCC is used to

[RFC8231]

SHOULD

Raghuram, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8741

LSP Control Request

March 2020

Note that a PCE may not be sure if a PCC supports this feature. A PCE would try sending a control
request to a 'legacy' PCC that would in turn respond with an error, as described in Section 4. So, a
PCE would learn this fact only when it wants to take control over an LSP. A PCE might also be
susceptible to downgrade attacks by falsifying the error condition.

, it is

[RFC8231]

RECOMMENDED

As per
authenticated and encrypted sessions across PCEs and PCCs belonging to the same administrative
authority, using Transport Layer Security (TLS)
, as per the recommendations and best
current practices in BCP 195

 that these PCEP extensions only be activated on

 (unless explicitly excluded in

[RFC8253]

[RFC8253]

[RFC7525]

).

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has allocated the following code point in the "SRP Object Flag Field" subregistry in the
"Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry.

Bit Description

Reference

30

LSP Control Request

RFC 8741

Table 1

7.  Manageability Considerations

All manageability requirements and considerations listed in
PCEP extensions deﬁned in this document. In addition, requirements and considerations listed in
this section apply.

[RFC8231]

[RFC5440]

 apply to

 and

7.1.  Control of Function and Policy

SHOULD

A PCC implementation
 allow the operator to conﬁgure the policy rules that specify the
conditions under which it honors the request to control the LSPs. This includes the handling of
the case where an LSP control request is received for an LSP that is currently delegated to some
other PCE. A PCC implementation
for the delegation requests received from the PCE. Further, the operator
trigger the LSP control request for a particular LSP at the PCE. A PCE implementation
also allow the operator to conﬁgure an exponentially increasing timer to retry the control
requests for which the PCE did not get a response.

 also allow the operator to conﬁgure the threshold rate

 be allowed to

SHOULD

SHOULD

MAY

7.2.  Information and Data Models

The PCEP YANG module
LSP control request.

[PCEP-YANG]

 could be extended to include a mechanism to trigger the

7.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new liveness detection and monitoring
requirements in addition to those already listed in

[RFC5440]
.

Raghuram, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8741

LSP Control Request

March 2020

7.4.  Verify Correct Operations

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new operation veriﬁcation requirements
 and
in addition to those already listed in

[RFC8231]
.

[RFC5440]

7.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new requirements on other protocols.

7.6.  Impact on Network Operations

Mechanisms deﬁned in
document. Further, the mechanism described in this document can help the operator to request
control of the LSPs at a particular PCE.

 also apply to PCEP extensions deﬁned in this

[RFC8231]

[RFC5440]

 and

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5440]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8281]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Vasseur, JP., Ed. and JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)
,
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

,

.

, March 2009,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Crabbe, E., Minei, I., Medved, J., and R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

,

,

,

.

Crabbe, E., Minei, I., Sivabalan, S., and R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

,

,

.

,

<https://

8.2.  Informative References

[PCEP-YANG]

Dhody, D., Hardwick, J., Beeram, V., and J. Tantsura "A YANG Data Model for
Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-13
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-13>

, 31 October 2019,

<https://

.

,

,

,

Raghuram, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8741

LSP Control Request

March 2020

[RFC4657]

[RFC7525]

[RFC8051]

[RFC8253]

Ash, J., Ed. and J.L. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)
Communication Protocol Generic Requirements" RFC 4657 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4657

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4657>

, September 2006,

,

,

,

.

,
Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Zhang, X., Ed. and I. Minei, Ed. "Applicability of a Stateful Path Computation
,
Element (PCE)" RFC 8051 DOI 10.17487/RFC8051
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8051>

, January 2017,

<https://

,

.

,

Lopez, D., Gonzalez de Dios, O., Wu, Q., and D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
,
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

, October 2017,

<https://

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

Thanks to
section.

Thanks to

Jonathan Hardwick

 for reminding the authors to not use suggested values in IANA

Adrian Farrel Haomian Zheng

,

, and

Tomonori Takeda

 for their valuable comments.

Thanks to

Shawn M. Emery

 for his Security Directorate review.

Thanks to

Francesca Palombini

 for GENART review.

Thanks to

Benjamin Kaduk Martin Vigoureux Alvaro Retana

,

,

, and

Barry Leiba

 for IESG reviews.

Contributors

The following people contributed substantially to the content of this document and should be
considered coauthors:

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei Technologies
Divyashree Techno Park, Whiteﬁeld
Bangalore 560066
Karnataka
India
Email:

 dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

Raghuram, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8741

LSP Control Request

March 2020

Jon Parker
Cisco Systems, Inc.
2000 Innovation Drive
Kanata Ontario K2K 3E8
Canada
Email:

 jdparker@cisco.com

Chaitanya Yadlapalli
AT&T
200 S Laurel Avenue
Middletown NJ 07748
,
United States of America
Email:

 cy098@att.com

Authors' Addresses

Aswatnarayan Raghuram
AT&T
200 S Laurel Avenue
Middletown NJ 07748
,
United States of America
 ar2521@att.com
Email:

Al Goddard
AT&T
200 S Laurel Avenue
Middletown NJ 07748
,
United States of America
 ag6941@att.com
Email:

Jay Karthik
Cisco Systems, Inc.
125 High Street
Boston Massachusetts 02110
,
United States of America
Email:

 jakarthi@cisco.com

Siva Sivabalan
Cisco Systems, Inc.
2000 Innovation Drive
Kanata Ontario K2K 3E8
Canada
Email:

 msiva@cisco.com

Raghuram, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8741

LSP Control Request

March 2020

Mahendra Singh Negi
Huawei Technologies
Divyashree Techno Park, Whiteﬁeld
Bangalore 560066
Karnataka
India
Email:

 mahend.ietf@gmail.com

Raghuram, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

