Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8896
Standards Track
November 2020
2070-1721

S. Randriamasy
Nokia Bell Labs

Y. Yang
Yale University

Q. Wu
Huawei

L. Deng
China Mobile

N. Schwan
Thales Deutschland

RFC 8896
Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) Cost
Calendar

Abstract

This document is an extension to the base Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)
protocol. It extends the ALTO cost information service so that applications decide not only
'where' to connect but also 'when'. This is useful for applications that need to perform bulk data
transfer and would like to schedule these transfers during an oﬀ-peak hour, for example. This
extension introduces the ALTO Cost Calendar with which an ALTO Server exposes ALTO cost
values in JSON arrays where each value corresponds to a given time interval. The time intervals,
as well as other Calendar attributes, are speciﬁed in the Information Resources Directory and
ALTO Server responses.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8896

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Some Recent Known Uses

1.2.  Terminology

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Overview of ALTO Cost Calendars and Terminology

3.1.  ALTO Cost Calendar Overview

3.2.  ALTO Cost Calendar Information Features

3.3.  ALTO Calendar Design Characteristics

3.3.1.  ALTO Cost Calendar for All Cost Modes

3.3.2.  Compatibility with Legacy ALTO Clients

4.  ALTO Calendar Speciﬁcation: IRD Extensions

4.1.  Calendar Attributes in the IRD Resource Capabilities

4.2.  Calendars in a Delegate IRD

4.3.  Example IRD with ALTO Cost Calendars

5.  ALTO Calendar Speciﬁcation: Service Information Resources

5.1.  Calendar Extensions for Filtered Cost Maps (FCM)

5.1.1.  Calendar Extensions in Filtered Cost Map Requests

5.1.2.  Calendar Extensions in Filtered Cost Map Responses

5.1.3.  Use Case and Example: FCM with a Bandwidth Calendar

5.2.  Calendar Extensions in the Endpoint Cost Service

5.2.1.  Calendar-Speciﬁc Input in Endpoint Cost Requests

5.2.2.  Calendar Attributes in the Endpoint Cost Response

5.2.3.  Use Case and Example: ECS with a routingcost Calendar

5.2.4.  Use Case and Example: ECS with a Multi-cost Calendar for routingcost and owdelay

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  Operational Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The base Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) protocol speciﬁed in
 provides
guidance to overlay applications that need to select one or several hosts from a set of candidates
able to provide a desired resource. This guidance is based on parameters that aﬀect performance
and eﬃciency of the data transmission between the hosts, such as the topological distance. The
goal of ALTO is to improve the Quality of Experience (QoE) in the application while optimizing
resource usage in the underlying network infrastructure.

[RFC7285]

[RFC7285]

 speciﬁes a network map that deﬁnes groupings of endpoints in

, ALTO does not disseminate network metrics that change frequently. In a network, the

The ALTO protocol in
provider-deﬁned network regions identiﬁed by Provider-deﬁned Identiﬁers (PIDs). The Cost Map
Service, Endpoint Cost Service (ECS), and Endpoint Ranking Service then provide ISP-deﬁned
costs and rankings for connections among the speciﬁed endpoints and PIDs and thus incentives
for application clients to connect to ISP-preferred locations, for instance, to reduce their costs.
 and requirement AR-14 of
For the reasons outlined in the ALTO problem statement
[RFC6708]
costs can ﬂuctuate for many reasons having to do with instantaneous traﬃc load or diurnal
patterns of traﬃc demand or planned events, such as network maintenance, holidays, or highly
publicized events. Thus, an ALTO application wishing to use the Cost Map and Endpoint Cost
Service at some future time will have to estimate the state of the network at that time, a process
that is, at best, fragile and brittle, since the application does not have any visibility into the state
of the network. Providing network costs for only the current time thus may not be suﬃcient, in
particular for applications that can schedule their traﬃc in a span of time, for example, by
deferring backups or other background traﬃc to oﬀ- peak hours.

[RFC5693]

In case the ALTO cost value changes are predictable over a certain period of time and the
application does not require immediate data transfer, it can save time to get the whole set of cost
values over this period in one single ALTO response. Using this set to schedule data transfers
allows optimizing the network resources usage and QoE. ALTO Clients and Servers can also
minimize their workload by reducing and accordingly scheduling their data exchanges.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

[RFC7285]

 to allow an ALTO Server to provide network costs for a given

This document extends
duration of time. A sequence of network costs across a time span for a given pair of network
locations is named an "ALTO Cost Calendar". The Filtered Cost Map Service and Endpoint Cost
Service are extended to provide Cost Calendars. In addition to this functional ALTO
enhancement, we expect to further save network and storage resources by gathering multiple
cost values for one cost type into one single ALTO Server response.

In this document, an "ALTO Cost Calendar" is speciﬁed in terms of information resource
capabilities that are applicable to time-sensitive ALTO metrics. An ALTO Cost Calendar exposes
ALTO cost values in JSON arrays, see
, where each value corresponds to a given time
interval. The time intervals, as well as other Calendar attributes, are speciﬁed in the Information
Resources Directory (IRD) and in the Server response to allow the ALTO Client to interpret the
received ALTO values. Last, the extensions for ALTO Calendars are applicable to any cost mode,
and they ensure backwards compatibility with legacy ALTO Clients -- those that only support
.
[RFC7285]

[RFC8259]

In the rest of this document, Section 3 provides the design characteristics. Sections 4 and 5 deﬁne
the formal speciﬁcations for the IRD and the information resources. IANA, security
considerations, and operational considerations are addressed respectively in Sections 6, 7, and 8.

1.1.  Some Recent Known Uses

A potential use case is implementing smart network services that allow applications to
dynamically build end-to-end, virtual networks to satisfy given demands with no manual
intervention. For example, data-transfer automation applications may need a network service to
determine the availability of bandwidth resources to decide when to transfer their data sets. The
SENSE project
 supports such applications by requiring that a network provides services
such as the Time-Bandwidth-Product (TBP) service, which informs applications of bandwidth
availability during a speciﬁc time period. ALTO Calendars can support this service if the Calendar
start date and duration cover the period of interest of the requesting application.

[SENSE]

The need of future scheduling of large-scale traﬃc that can be addressed by the ALTO protocol is
also motivated by Unicorn, a uniﬁed resource orchestration framework for multi-domain, geo-
.
distributed data analytics, see
[UNICORN-FGCS]

1.2.  Terminology

ALTO transaction:

A request/response exchange between an ALTO Client and an ALTO Server.

Client:

When used with a capital "C", this term refers to an ALTO Client.

Calendar, Cost Calendar, ALTO Calendar:

When used with capitalized words, these terms refer to an ALTO Cost Calendar.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

Calendared:

This adjective qualiﬁes information resources providing Cost Calendars and information on
costs that are provided in the form of a Cost Calendar.

Endpoint (EP):

An endpoint is deﬁned as in
storage location, a physical server involved in a virtual server-supported application, a party
in a resource-sharing swarm such as a computation grid, or an online multi-party game.

. It can be, for example, a peer, a CDN

Section 2.1 of [RFC7285]

ECM:

An abbreviation for Endpoint Cost Map.

FCM:

An abbreviation for Filtered Cost Map.

Server:

When used with a capital "S", this term refers to an ALTO Server.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

When the words appear in lower case, they are to be interpreted with their natural language
meanings.

3.  Overview of ALTO Cost Calendars and Terminology

This section gives a high-level overview of the design. It assumes the reader is familiar with the
ALTO protocol

 and its Multi-Cost ALTO extension

[RFC8189]
.

[RFC7285]

3.1.  ALTO Cost Calendar Overview

An ALTO Cost Calendar provided by the ALTO Server provides 2 information items:

•

an array of values for a given metric, where each value speciﬁes the metric corresponding to
a time interval, where the value array can sometimes be a cyclic pattern that repeats a
certain number of times and

•

attributes describing the time scope of the Calendar, including the size and number of the
intervals and the date of the starting point of the Calendar, allowing an ALTO Client to
interpret the values properly.

An ALTO Cost Calendar can be used like a "time table" to ﬁgure out the best time to schedule data
transfers and also to proactively manage application traﬃc given predictable events, such as an
expected spike in traﬃc due to crowd gathering (concerts, sports, etc.), traﬃc-intensive holidays,
and network maintenance. A Calendar may be viewed as a synthetic abstraction of, for example,

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

real measurements gathered over previous periods on which statistics have been computed.
However, like for any schedule, unexpected network incidents may require the current ALTO
Calendar to be updated and resent to the ALTO Clients needing it. The "ALTO Incremental
Updates Using Server-Sent Events (SSE)" Service
Calendar upon value changes if supported by both the Server and the Client.

 can be used to directly update the

[RFC8895]

Most likely, the ALTO Cost Calendar would be used for the Endpoint Cost Service, assuming that a
limited set of feasible endpoints for a non-real time application is already identiﬁed, and that
those endpoints do not need to be accessed immediately and that their access can be scheduled
within a given time period. The Filtered Cost Map Service is also applicable as long as the size of
the Map allows it.

3.2.  ALTO Cost Calendar Information Features

The Calendar attributes are provided in the Information Resources Directory (IRD) and in ALTO
Server responses. The IRD announces attributes without date values in its information resources
capabilities, whereas attributes with time-dependent values are provided in the "meta" section of
Server responses. The ALTO Cost Calendar attributes provide the following information:

•

attributes to describe the time scope of the Calendar value array:

◦

◦

"time-interval-size": the applicable time interval size for each Calendar value, deﬁned in
seconds, that can cover a wide range of values.

"number-of-intervals": the number of intervals provided in the Calendar.

•

"calendar-start-time": specifying when the Calendar starts; that is, to which date the ﬁrst
value of the Cost Calendar is applicable.

•

"repeated": an optional attribute indicating how many iterations of the provided Calendar
will have the same values. The Server may use it to allow the Client to schedule its next
request and thus save its own workload by reducing processing of similar requests.

Attribute "repeated" may take a very high value if a Calendar represents a cyclic value pattern
that the Server considers valid for a long period. In this case, the Server will only update the
Calendar values once this period has elapsed or if an unexpected event occurs on the network.
See Section 8 for more discussion.

3.3.  ALTO Calendar Design Characteristics

The present document uses the notations deﬁned in "Notation" (

Section 8.2 of [RFC7285]

).

The extensions in this document encode requests and responses using JSON

[RFC8259]
.

In the base protocol
allow extensions. However, that section (

, an ALTO cost is speciﬁed as a generic JSONValue
Section 11.2.3.6 of [RFC7285]

[RFC7285]

) states:

[RFC8259]

 to

An implementation of the protocol in this document
JSONNumber and fail to parse if it is not, unless the implementation is using an

 assume that the cost is a

SHOULD

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

extension to this document that indicates when and how costs of other data types are
signaled.

The present document extends the deﬁnition of a legacy cost map given in
cost entry to be an array of values, with one value per time interval, instead of being just one
number, when the Cost Calendar functionality is activated on this cost. Therefore, the
implementor of this extension
has been queried as a Calendar.

 consider that a cost entry is an array of values if this cost

[RFC7285]

MUST

 to allow a

Speciﬁcally, an implementation of this extension
of the Calendar attributes in an IRD entry announcing a service providing a Cost Calendar for a
given cost type. The implementation then will know that a cost entry of the service will be an
array of values, and the expected size of the array is that speciﬁed by the "number-of-intervals"
attribute. The following rules attempt to ensure consistency between the array size announced
by the Server and the actual size of the array received by the Client:

 parse the "number-of-intervals" attribute

MUST

•

The size of the array of values conveyed in a Cost Calendar and received by the Client
be equal to the value of attribute "number-of-intervals" indicated in the IRD for the
requested cost type.

MUST

•

When the size of the array received by the Client is diﬀerent from the expected size, the
Client

 ignore the received array.

SHOULD

To realize an ALTO Calendar, this document extends the IRD and the ALTO requests and
responses for Cost Calendars.

This extension is designed to be lightweight and to ensure backwards compatibility with base
protocol ALTO Clients and with other extensions. It relies on "Parsing of Unknown Fields"
(
Section 8.3.7 of [RFC7285]
objects deﬁned in this document. ALTO implementations
processing ALTO messages."

), which states: "Extensions may include additional ﬁelds within JSON

 ignore unknown ﬁelds when

MUST

The Calendar-speciﬁc capabilities are integrated in the information resources of the IRD and in
the "meta" member of ALTO responses to Cost Calendars requests. A Calendar and its capabilities
are associated with a given information resource and within this information resource with a
given cost type. This design has several advantages:

•

it does not introduce a new mode,

•

it does not introduce new media types, and

•

it allows an ALTO Server to oﬀer, for a cost type, diﬀerent Calendars with attributes that are
speciﬁc to the information resources providing a Calendar for this cost type, instead of being
globally speciﬁc to the cost type.

The applicable Calendared information resources are:

•

the Filtered Cost Map and

•

the Endpoint Cost Map.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

The ALTO Server can choose in which frequency it provides cost Calendars to ALTO Clients. It
may either provide Calendar updates starting at the request date or carefully schedule its
updates so as to take proﬁt from a potential repetition/periodicity of Calendar values.

Since Calendar attributes are speciﬁc to an information resource, a Server may adapt the
granularity of the calendared information so as to moderate the volume of exchanged data. For
example, suppose a Server provides a Calendar for cost type name "routingcost". The Server may
oﬀer a Calendar in a Cost Map resource, which may be a voluminous resource, as an array of 6
intervals lasting each 4 hours. It may also oﬀer a Calendar in an Endpoint Cost Map resource,
which is potentially less voluminous, as a ﬁner-grained array of 24 intervals lasting 1 hour each.

The ALTO Server does not support constraints on Calendars, provided Calendars are requested
for numerical values, for two main reasons:

•

Constraints on an array of values may be various. For instance, some Clients may refuse
Calendars with one single value violating a constraint, whereas other ones may tolerate
Calendars with values violating constraints, for example, at given times. Therefore,
expressing constraints in a way that covers all possible Client preferences is challenging.

•

If constraints were to be supported, the processing overhead would be substantial for the
Server as it would have to parse all the values of the Calendar array before returning a
response.

As providing the constraint functionality in conjunction with the Calendar functionality is not
feasible for the reasons described above, the two features are mutually exclusive. The absence of
constraints on Filtered Cost Map and Endpoint Cost Map Calendars reﬂects a divergence from the
non-calendared information resources deﬁned in
support optional constraints.

 and extended in

[RFC8189]

[RFC7285]

, which

3.3.1.  ALTO Cost Calendar for All Cost Modes

An ALTO Cost Calendar is well suited for values encoded in the "numerical" mode. Actually, a
Calendar can also represent metrics in other modes considered as compatible with time-varying
values. For example, types of cost values (such as JSONBool) can also be calendared (as their
value may be 'true' or 'false' depending on given time periods or likewise) values represented by
strings, such as "medium", "high", "low", "blue", and "open".

Note also that a Calendar is suitable as well for time-varying metrics provided in the "ordinal"
mode if these values are time-varying and the ALTO Server provides updates of cost-value-based
preferences.

3.3.2.  Compatibility with Legacy ALTO Clients

The ALTO protocol extensions for Cost Calendars have been deﬁned so as to ensure that
Calendar-capable ALTO Servers can provide legacy ALTO Clients with legacy information
resources as well. That is, a legacy ALTO Client can request resources and receive responses as
speciﬁed in

[RFC7285]

.

A Calendar-aware ALTO Server

MUST

 implement the base protocol speciﬁed in

.
[RFC7285]

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

A Calendar-aware ALTO Client

MUST

 implement the base protocol speciﬁed in

[RFC7285]
.

As a consequence, when a metric is available as a Calendar array, it also
single value, as required by
metric to either Calendar-aware Clients not interested in future or time-based values or Clients
implementing

. The Server, in this case, provides the current value of the

 be available as a

[RFC7285]

[RFC7285]

 only.

MUST

For compatibility with legacy ALTO Clients speciﬁed in
resources are not applicable for full cost maps for the following reason: a legacy ALTO Client
would receive a calendared cost map via an HTTP 'GET' command. As speciﬁed in
[RFC7285]
Therefore, lacking information on Calendar attributes, it will not be able to correctly interpret
and process the values of the received array of Calendar cost values.

, it will ignore the Calendar attributes indicated in the "meta" of the responses.

, calendared information

[RFC7285]

Section 8.3.7 of

Therefore, calendared information resources
Service or the Endpoint Cost Service using a POST method.

MUST

 be requested via the Filtered Cost Map

4.  ALTO Calendar Speciﬁcation: IRD Extensions

The Calendar attributes in the IRD information resources capabilities carry dateless values. A
Calendar is associated with an information resource rather than a cost type. For example, a
Server can provide a "routingcost" Calendar for the Filtered Cost Map Service at a granularity of
one day and a "routingcost" Calendar for the Endpoint Cost Service at a ﬁner granularity but for
a limited number of endpoints. An example IRD with Calendar-speciﬁc features is provided in
Section 4.3.

4.1.  Calendar Attributes in the IRD Resource Capabilities

MUST

MUST NOT

 be indicated in the IRD by an object of type

 appear more than once in the "calendar-attributes" member of a resource

A Cost Calendar for a given cost type
CalendarAttributes. A CalendarAttributes object is represented by the "calendar-attributes"
member of a resource entry. Member "calendar-attributes" is an array of CalendarAttributes
objects. Each CalendarAttributes object lists a set of one or more cost types it applies to. A cost
type name
entry; multiple appearances of a cost type name in the CalendarAttributes object of the
"calendar-attributes" member
name beyond the ﬁrst encountered occurrence. The Client
CalendarAttributes object in the array containing the ﬁrst encountered occurrence of a cost type
as the valid one for this cost type. As an alternative, the Client may want to avoid the risks of
erroneous guidance associated to the use of potentially invalid Calendar values. In this case, the
Client
type name and query the cost type using

 ignore the totality of occurrences of CalendarAttributes objects containing the cost
.
[RFC7285]

 cause the ALTO Client to ignore any occurrences of this
SHOULD

 consider the

MUST

MAY

The encoding format for object CalendarAttributes using JSON

[RFC8259]

 is as follows:

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

CalendarAttributes calendar-attributes <1..*>;

object{
  JSONString cost-type-names <1..*>;
  JSONNumber time-interval-size;
  JSONNumber number-of-intervals;
} CalendarAttributes;

"cost-type-names":

An array of one or more elements indicating the cost type names in the IRD entry to which the
values of "time-interval-size" and "number-of-intervals" apply.

"time-interval-size":

The duration of an ALTO Calendar time interval in a unit of seconds. A "time-interval-size"
value contains a non-negative JSONNumber. Example values are 300 and 7200, meaning that
each Calendar value applies on a time interval that lasts 5 minutes and 2 hours, respectively.
Since an interval size (e.g., 100 ms) can be smaller than the unit, the value speciﬁed may be a
ﬂoating point (e.g., 0.1). Both ALTO Clients and Servers should be aware of potential precision
issues caused by using ﬂoating point numbers; for example, the ﬂoating number 0.1 cannot be
represented precisely using a ﬁnite number of binary bits. To improve interoperability and be
consistent with
SHOULD

 on the use of ﬂoating point numbers, the Server and the Client
 to store this value.

 use IEEE 754 double-precision ﬂoating point

[IEEE.754.2019]

[RFC7285]

"number-of-intervals":

A strictly positive integer (greater or equal to 1) that indicates the number of values of the
Cost Calendar array.

•

An ALTO Server
 specify the "time-interval-size" in the IRD as the smallest it is able to
provide. A Client that needs a longer interval can aggregate multiple cost values to obtain it.

SHOULD

•

Attribute "cost-type-names" is associated with "time-interval-size" and "number-of-intervals",
because multiple cost types may share the same values for attributes "time-interval-size" and
"number-of-intervals". To avoid redundancies, cost type names sharing the same values for
"time-interval-size" and "number-of-intervals" are grouped in the "cost-type-names"
attribute. In the example IRD provided in Section 4.3, the information resource "ﬁltered-cost-
map-calendar" provides a Calendar for cost type names "num-routingcost", "num-
throughputrating", and "string-servicestatus". Cost type names "num-routingcost" and "num-
throughputrating" are grouped in the "cost-type-names" attribute because they share the
same values for "time-interval-size" and "number-of-intervals", which are respectively 7200
and 12.

•

Multiplying "time-interval-size" by "number-of-intervals" provides the duration of the
provided Calendar. For example, an ALTO Server may provide a Calendar for ALTO values
changing every "time-interval-size" equal to 5 minutes. If "number-of-intervals" has the
value 12, then the duration of the provided Calendar is 1 hour.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

4.2.  Calendars in a Delegate IRD

[RFC7285]

It may be useful to distinguish IRD resources supported by the base ALTO protocol from
resources supported by its extensions. To achieve this, one option is that a "root" ALTO Server
implementing
 resources and running at a given domain delegates "specialized"
information resources, such as the ones providing Cost Calendars, to another ALTO Server
running in a subdomain. The "root" ALTO Server can provide a Calendar-speciﬁc resource entry
that has a media-type of "application/alto-directory+json" and that speciﬁes the URI allowing to
retrieve the location of a Calendar-aware Server and discover its resources. This option is
described in "Delegation Using IRD" (

Section 9.2.4 of [RFC7285]

).

This document provides an example where a "root" ALTO Server runs in a domain called
"alto.example.com". It delegates the announcement of Calendars capabilities to an ALTO Server
running in a subdomain called "custom.alto.example.com". The location of the "delegate
Calendar IRD" is assumed to be indicated in the "root" IRD by the resource entry: "custom-
calendared-resources".

Another beneﬁt of delegation is that some cost types for some resources may be more
advantageous as Cost Calendars, and it makes little sense to get them as a single value. For
example, if a cost type has predictable and frequently changing values calendared in short time
intervals, such as a minute, it saves time and network resources to track the cost values via a
focused delegate Server rather than the more general "root" Server.

4.3.  Example IRD with ALTO Cost Calendars

This section provides an example ALTO Server IRD that supports various cost metrics and cost
modes. In particular, since
the "numerical" mode.

 makes it mandatory, the Server uses metric "routingcost" in

[RFC7285]

For illustrative purposes, this section introduces 3 other ﬁctitious example metrics and modes
that should be understood as examples and should not be used or considered as normative.

The cost type names used in the example IRD are as follows:

"num-routingcost":

Refers to metric "routingcost" in the numerical mode, as deﬁned in
with IANA.

[RFC7285]

 and registered

"num-owdelay":

Refers to ﬁctitious performance metric "owdelay" in the "numerical" mode to reﬂect the one-
way packet transmission delay on a path. A related performance metric is currently under
deﬁnition in

[ALTO_METRICS]

.

"num-throughputrating":

Refers to ﬁctitious metric "throughputrating" in the "numerical" mode to reﬂect the provider
preference in terms of end-to-end throughput.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

"string-servicestatus":

Refers to ﬁctitious metric "servicestatus" containing a string to reﬂect the availability, deﬁned
by the provider, of, for instance, path connectivity.

The example IRD includes 2 particular URIs providing Calendars:

"https://custom.alto.example.com/calendar/costmap/ﬁltered":

A Filtered Cost Map in which Calendar capabilities are indicated for cost type names "num-
routingcost", "num-throughputrating", and "string-servicestatus" and

"https://custom.alto.example.com/calendar/endpointcost/lookup":

An Endpoint Cost Map in which Calendar capabilities are indicated for cost type names "num-
routingcost", "num-owdelay", "num-throughputrating", and "string-servicestatus".

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

The design of the Calendar capabilities allows some Calendars with the same cost type name to
be available in several information resources with diﬀerent Calendar attributes. This is the case
for Calendars on "num-routingcost", "num-throughputrating", and "string-servicestatus",
available in both the Filtered Cost Map and Endpoint Cost Service but with diﬀerent time interval
sizes for "num-throughputrating" and "string-servicestatus".

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

--- Client to Server request for IRD ----------

GET /calendars-directory HTTP/1.1
Host: custom.alto.example.com
Accept: application/alto-directory+json,application/alto-error+json

--- Server response to Client -----------------

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Length: 2622
Content-Type: application/alto-directory+json

{
  "meta" : {
    "default-alto-network-map" : "my-default-network-map",
    "cost-types": {
      "num-routingcost": {
        "cost-mode" : "numerical",
        "cost-metric" : "routingcost"
      },
      "num-owdelay": {
        "cost-mode"  : "numerical",
        "cost-metric": "owdelay"
      },
      "num-throughputrating": {
        "cost-mode"  : "numerical",
        "cost-metric": "throughputrating"
      },
      "string-servicestatus": {
        "cost-mode"  : "string",
        "cost-metric": "servicestatus"
      }
    }
  },
  "resources" : {
    "filtered-cost-map-calendar" : {
      "uri" :
        "https://custom.alto.example.com/calendar/costmap/filtered",
      "media-type" : "application/alto-costmap+json",
      "accepts" : "application/alto-costmapfilter+json",
      "capabilities" : {
        "cost-constraints" : true,
        "cost-type-names"  : [ "num-routingcost",
                               "num-throughputrating",
                               "string-servicestatus" ],
        "calendar-attributes" : [
          {"cost-type-names" : [ "num-routingcost",
                                 "num-throughputrating" ],
           "time-interval-size" : 7200,
           "number-of-intervals" : 12
          },
          {"cost-type-names" : [ "string-servicestatus" ],
           "time-interval-size" : 1800,
           "number-of-intervals" : 48
          }
        ]
      },

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

      "uses": [ "my-default-network-map" ]
    },
    "endpoint-cost-map-calendar" : {
      "uri" :
      "https://custom.alto.example.com/calendar/endpointcost/lookup",
      "media-type" : "application/alto-endpointcost+json",
      "accepts" : "application/alto-endpointcostparams+json",
      "capabilities" : {
        "cost-constraints" : true,
        "cost-type-names" : [ "num-routingcost",
                              "num-owdelay",
                              "num-throughputrating",
                              "string-servicestatus" ],
        "calendar-attributes" : [
          {"cost-type-names" : [ "num-routingcost" ],
           "time-interval-size" : 3600,
           "number-of-intervals" : 24
          },
          {"cost-type-names" : [ "num-owdelay" ],
           "time-interval-size" : 300,
           "number-of-intervals" : 12
          },
          {"cost-type-names" : [ "num-throughputrating" ],
           "time-interval-size" : 60,
           "number-of-intervals" : 60
          },
          {"cost-type-names" : [ "string-servicestatus" ],
           "time-interval-size" : 120,
           "number-of-intervals" : 30
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}

In this example IRD, for the Filtered Cost Map Service:

•

the Calendar for "num-routingcost" and "num-throughputrating" is an array of 12 values,
each provided on a time interval lasting 7200 seconds (2 hours) and

•

the Calendar for "string-servicestatus" is an array of 48 values, each provided on a time
interval lasting 1800 seconds (30 minutes).

For the Endpoint Cost Service:

•

the Calendar for "num-routingcost" is an array of 24 values, each provided on a time interval
lasting 3600 seconds (1 hour),

•

the Calendar for "num-owdelay" is an array of 12 values, each provided on a time interval
lasting 300 seconds (5 minutes),

•

the Calendar for "num-throughputrating" is an array of 60 values, each provided on a time
interval lasting 60 seconds (1 minute), and

•

the Calendar for "string-servicestatus" is an array of 30 values, each provided on a time
interval lasting 120 seconds (2 minutes).

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

Note that in this example IRD, member "cost-constraints" is present with a value set to "true" in
both information resources "ﬁltered-cost-map-calendar" and "endpoint-cost-map-calendar".
Although a Calendar-aware ALTO Server does not support constraints for the reasons explained
in Section 3.3, it
 support constraints on cost types that are not requested as Calendars but
are requested as speciﬁed in

[RFC8189]

[RFC7285]

MUST

 and

.

5.  ALTO Calendar Speciﬁcation: Service Information
Resources

This section documents extensions to two basic ALTO information resources (Filtered Cost Maps
and Endpoint Cost Service) to provide calendared information services for them.

Both extensions return calendar start time (calendar-start-time, a point in time), which
speciﬁed as an HTTP "Date" header ﬁeld using the IMF-ﬁxdate format speciﬁed in
of [RFC7231]
as in this example:

 be
Section 7.1.1.1
. Note that the IMF-ﬁxdate format uses "GMT", not "UTC", to designate the time zone,

MUST

                 Date: Tue, 15 Nov 2019 08:12:31 GMT

5.1.  Calendar Extensions for Filtered Cost Maps (FCM)

A legacy ALTO Client requests and gets Filtered Cost Map responses, as speciﬁed in

[RFC7285]
.

5.1.1.  Calendar Extensions in Filtered Cost Map Requests

The input parameters of a "legacy" request for a Filtered Cost Map, deﬁned by object
Section 11.3.2 of [RFC7285]
ReqFilteredCostMap in
The same augmentation applies to object ReqFilteredCostMap deﬁned in
[RFC8189]
.

Section 4.1.2 of

, are augmented with one additional member.

A Calendar-aware ALTO Client requesting a Calendar on a given cost type for a Filtered Cost Map
resource having Calendar capabilities

 add the following ﬁeld to its input parameters:

MUST

                       JSONBoolean calendared<1..*>;

This ﬁeld is an array of 1 to N boolean values, where N is the number of requested metrics. N is
greater than 1 when the Client and the Server also implement

[RFC8189]
.

Each entry corresponds to the requested metric at the same array position. Each boolean value
indicates whether or not the ALTO Server should provide the values for this cost type as a
Calendar. The array
error.

 contain exactly N boolean values, otherwise, the Server returns an

MUST

This ﬁeld
information resource.

MUST NOT

 be included if no member "calendar-attributes" is speciﬁed in this

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

If a value of ﬁeld "calendared" is 'true' for a cost type name for which no Calendar attributes
have been speciﬁed, an ALTO Server, whether it implements the extensions of this document or
only implements
speciﬁed in

 ignore it and return a response with a single cost value, as

[RFC7285] MUST

[RFC7285]

,

.

If this ﬁeld is not present, it

MUST

 be assumed to have only values equal to 'false'.

A Calendar-aware ALTO Client that supports requests for only one cost type at a time and wants
to request a Calendar

 provide an array of 1 element:

MUST

                       "calendared" : [true],

A Calendar-aware ALTO Client that supports requests for more than one cost type at a time, as
speciﬁed in
whether it wants the applicable cost type values as a single or calendared value.

 provide an array of N values set to 'true' or 'false', depending

[RFC8189] MUST

,

5.1.2.  Calendar Extensions in Filtered Cost Map Responses

In a calendared ALTO Filtered Cost Map, a cost value between a source and a destination is a
JSON array of JSON values. An ALTO Calendar values array has a number of values equal to the
value of member "number-of-intervals" of the Calendar attributes that are indicated in the IRD.
These attributes will be conveyed as metadata in the Filtered Cost Map response. Each element of
the array is valid for the time interval that matches its array position.

The FCM response conveys metadata, among which:

•

some are not speciﬁc to Calendars and ensure compatibility with
and

[RFC7285]

 and

[RFC8189]

•

some are speciﬁc to Calendars.

The non-Calendar-speciﬁc "meta" ﬁelds of a calendared Filtered Cost Map response
at least:

MUST

 include

•

if the ALTO Client requests cost values for one cost type at a time, only the "meta" ﬁelds
 for these information service responses:
speciﬁed in

[RFC7285]

◦

◦

"dependent-vtags" and

"cost-type" ﬁeld.

•

if the ALTO Client implements the Multi-Cost ALTO extension speciﬁed in
requests cost values for several cost types at a time, the "meta" ﬁelds speciﬁed in
for these information service responses:

[RFC8189]

 and
[RFC8189]

◦

◦

◦

"dependent-vtags",

"cost-type" ﬁeld with value set to '{}', for backwards compatibility with

[RFC7285]

, and

"multi-cost-types" ﬁeld.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

If the Client request does not provide member "calendared" or if it provides it with a value equal
to 'false' for all the requested cost types, then the ALTO Server response is exactly as speciﬁed in
[RFC7285]

.
[RFC8189]

 and

If the value of member "calendared" is equal to 'false' for a given requested cost type, the ALTO
Server

 return, for this cost type, a single cost value as speciﬁed in

[RFC7285]

MUST

.

If the value of member "calendared" is equal to 'true' for a given requested cost type, the ALTO
Server returns, for this cost type, a cost value Calendar, as speciﬁed above in this section. In
addition to the above cited non-Calendar-speciﬁc "meta" members, the Server
Calendar-speciﬁc metadata ﬁeld.

 provide a

MUST

The Calendar-speciﬁc "meta" ﬁeld that a calendared Filtered Cost Map response
member called "calendar-response-attributes", which describes properties of the Calendar and
where:

MUST

 include is a

•

member "calendar-response-attributes" is an array of one or more objects of type
"CalendarResponseAttributes",

•

each "CalendarResponseAttributes" object in the array is speciﬁed for one or more cost types
for which the value of member "calendared", in object ReqFilteredCostMap provided in the
Client request, is equal to 'true' and for which a Calendar is provided for the requested
information resource, and

•

the "CalendarResponseAttributes" object that applies to a cost type name has a
corresponding "CalendarAttributes" object deﬁned for this cost type name in the IRD
capabilities of the requested information resource. This object is the entry in the "calendar-
attributes" array member of the IRD resource entry, which includes the name of the
requested cost type. This corresponding "CalendarAttributes" object has the same values as
object "CalendarResponseAttributes" for members "time-interval-size" and "number-of-
intervals". The members of the "CalendarResponseAttributes" object include all the members
of the corresponding "CalendarAttributes" object.

The format of member "CalendarResponseAttributes is deﬁned as follows:

CalendarResponseAttributes calendar-response-attributes <1..*>;

object{
  [JSONString cost-type-names <1..*>;]
  JSONString calendar-start-time;
  JSONNumber time-interval-size;
  JSONNumber number-of-intervals;
  [JSONNumber repeated;]
} CalendarResponseAttributes;

Object CalendarResponseAttributes has the following attributes:

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

"cost-type-names":

An array of one or more cost type names to which the value of the other members of
CalendarResponseAttributes apply and for which a Calendar has been requested. The value of
this member is a subset of the "cost-type-names" member of the abovementioned
corresponding "CalendarAttributes" object in the "calendar-attributes" array member in the
IRD. This member
type.

 be present when Cost Calendars are provided for more than one cost

MUST

"calendar-start-time":

Indicates the date at which the ﬁrst value of the Calendar applies. The value is a string that, as
speciﬁed in Section 5, contains an HTTP "Date" header ﬁeld using the IMF-ﬁxdate format
speciﬁed in
SHOULD NOT

Section 7.1.1.1 of [RFC7231]
 be later than the request date.

. The value provided for attribute "calendar-start-time"

"time-interval-size":

As speciﬁed in Section 4.1 and with the same value as in the abovementioned corresponding
"CalendarAttributes" object.

"number-of-intervals":

As speciﬁed in Section 4.1 and with the same value as in the abovementioned corresponding
"CalendarAttributes" object.

"repeated":

An optional ﬁeld provided for Calendars. It is an integer N greater or equal to '1' that indicates
how many iterations of the Calendar value array starting at the date indicated by "calendar-
start-time" have the same values. The number N includes the iteration provided in the
returned response.

For example, suppose the "calendar-start-time" member has value "Mon, 30 Jun 2019 00:00:00
GMT", the "time-interval-size" member has value '3600', the "number-of-intervals" member has
value '24', and the value of member "repeated" is equal to '4'. This means that the Calendar
values are the same on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday on a period of 24 hours
starting at 00:00:00 GMT. The ALTO Client thus may use the same Calendar for the next 4 days
starting at "calendar-start-time" and will only need to request a new one for Friday, July 4th at
00:00:00 GMT.

Attribute "repeated" may take a very high value if a Calendar represents a cyclic value pattern
that the Server considers valid for a long period and hence will only update once this period has
elapsed or if an unexpected event occurs on the network. In the latter case, the Client will be
notiﬁed if it uses the "ALTO Incremental Updates Using Server-Sent Events (SSE)" Service,
speciﬁed in
RECOMMENDED
Calendars also provide the "ALTO Incremental Updates Using Server-Sent Events (SSE)" Service,
which is speciﬁed in
also use the SSE Service. See also discussion in Section 8 "Operational Considerations".

. Likewise, ALTO Clients capable of using ALTO Calendars

 that ALTO Servers providing ALTO

. To this end, it is

[RFC8895]

[RFC8895]

SHOULD

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

5.1.3.  Use Case and Example: FCM with a Bandwidth Calendar

An example of non-real-time information that can be provisioned in a Calendar is the expected
path throughput. While the transmission rate can be measured in real time by end systems, the
operator of a data center is in the position of formulating preferences for given paths at given
time periods to avoid traﬃc peaks due to diurnal usage patterns. In this example, we assume that
an ALTO Client requests a Calendar of network-provider-deﬁned throughput ratings as speciﬁed
in the IRD to schedule its bulk data transfers as described in the use cases.

In the example IRD, Calendars for cost type name "num-throughputrating" are available for the
information resources "ﬁltered-cost-calendar-map" and "endpoint-cost-map-calendar". The ALTO
Client requests a Calendar for "num-throughputrating" via a POST request for a Filtered Cost
Map.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

We suppose in the present example that the ALTO Client sends its request on Tuesday, July 1st
2019 at 13:15. The Server returns Calendars with arrays of 12 numbers for each source and
destination pair. The values for metric "throughputrating", in this example, are assumed to be
encoded in 2 digits.

  POST /calendar/costmap/filtered HTTP/1.1
  Host: custom.alto.example.com
  Content-Length: 217
  Content-Type: application/alto-costmapfilter+json
  Accept: application/alto-costmap+json,application/alto-error+json

  {
    "cost-type" : {"cost-mode" : "numerical",
                   "cost-metric" : "throughputrating"},
    "calendared" : [true],
    "pids" : {
      "srcs" : [ "PID1", "PID2" ],
      "dsts" : [ "PID1", "PID2", "PID3" ]
    }
  }

  HTTP/1.1 200 OK
  Content-Length: 1043
  Content-Type: application/alto-costmap+json

  {
    "meta" : {
      "dependent-vtags" : [
        {"resource-id": "my-default-network-map",
         "tag": "3ee2cb7e8d63d9fab71b9b34cbf764436315542e"
        }
      ],
      "cost-type" : {"cost-mode" : "numerical",
                     "cost-metric" : "throughputrating"},
      "calendar-response-attributes" : [
        {"calendar-start-time" : "Tue, 1 Jul 2019 13:00:00 GMT",
         "time-interval-size" : 7200,
         "number-of-intervals" : 12}
      ]
    },
    "cost-map" : {
      "PID1": { "PID1": [ 1, 12, 14, 18, 14, 14,
                         14, 18, 19, 20, 11, 12],
                "PID2": [13,  4, 15, 16, 17, 18,
                         19, 20, 11, 12, 13, 14],
                "PID3": [20, 20, 18, 14, 12, 12,
                         14, 14, 12, 12, 14, 16] },
      "PID2": { "PID1": [17, 18, 19, 10, 11, 12,
                         13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18],
                "PID2": [20, 20, 18, 16, 14, 14,
                         14, 16, 16, 16, 14, 16],
                "PID3": [20, 20, 18, 14, 12, 12,
                         14, 14, 12, 12, 14, 16] }
    }
  }

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

5.2.  Calendar Extensions in the Endpoint Cost Service

This document extends the Endpoint Cost Service, as deﬁned in
adding new input parameters and capabilities and by returning JSONArrays instead of
JSONNumbers as the cost values. The media type (
method (

Section 11.5.1.2 of [RFC7285]

Section 11.5.1.1 of [RFC7285]

) are unchanged.

Section 11.5.1 of [RFC7285]

) and HTTP

, by

5.2.1.  Calendar-Speciﬁc Input in Endpoint Cost Requests

The extensions to the requests for calendared Endpoint Cost Maps are the same as for the
Filtered Cost Map Service, speciﬁed in Section 5.1.1 of this document. Likewise, the rules deﬁned
around the extensions to ECM requests are the same as those deﬁned in Section 5.1.1 for FCM
requests.

The ReqEndpointCostMap object for a calendared ECM request will have the following format:

object {
  [CostType cost-type;]
  [CostType multi-cost-types<1..*>;]
  [JSONBoolean calendared<1..*>;]
  EndpointFilter endpoints;
} ReqEndpointCostMap;

object {
  [TypedEndpointAddr srcs<0..*>;]
  [TypedEndpointAddr dsts<0..*>;]
} EndpointFilter;

Member "cost-type" is optional because, in the ReqEndpointCostMap object deﬁnition of this
document, it is jointly present with member "multi-cost-types" to ensure compatibility with
[RFC8189]
to obey the rule speciﬁed in
"cost-type" or "multi-cost-types" but

Section 4.1.2 of [RFC8189]
MUST NOT

, members "cost-type" and "multi-cost-types" are both optional and have

 stating that "the Client

 specify both".

[RFC8189]

 specify either

MUST

. In

The interpretation of member "calendared" is the same as for the ReqFilteredCostMap object
deﬁned in Section 5.1.1 of this document. The interpretation of the other members is the same as
for object ReqEndpointCostMap deﬁned in
[RFC7285]
TypedEndpointAddr is deﬁned in
.
Section 10.4.1 of [RFC7285]

[RFC8189]

. The type

 and

For the reasons explained in Section 3.3, a Calendar-aware ALTO Server does not support
constraints. Therefore, member "[constraints]" is not present in the ReqEndpointCostMap object,
and member "constraints"
MUST NOT
Endpoint Cost Calendar. If this member is present, the Server

 be present in the input parameters of a request for an
MUST

 ignore it.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

5.2.2.  Calendar Attributes in the Endpoint Cost Response

The "meta" ﬁeld of a calendared Endpoint Cost response

MUST

 include at least:

•

if the ALTO Client supports cost values for one cost type at a time only, the "meta" ﬁelds
speciﬁed in

 for the Endpoint Cost response:

Section 11.5.1.6 of [RFC7285]

◦

"cost-type" ﬁeld.

•

if the ALTO Client supports cost values for several cost types at a time, as speciﬁed in
[RFC8189]

 for the Endpoint Cost response:

, the "meta" ﬁelds speciﬁed in

[RFC8189]

◦

◦

"cost-type" ﬁeld with value set to '{}', for backwards compatibility with

[RFC7285]

.

"multi-cost-types" ﬁeld.

If the Client request does not provide member "calendared" or if it provides it with a value equal
to 'false', for all the requested cost types, then the ALTO Server response is exactly as speciﬁed in
[RFC7285]

.
[RFC8189]

 and

If the ALTO Client provides member "calendared" in the input parameters with a value equal to
'true' for given requested cost types, the "meta" member of a calendared Endpoint Cost response
 include, for these cost types, an additional member "calendar-response-attributes", the
MUST
contents of which obey the same rules as for the Filtered Cost Map Service, speciﬁed in Section
[RFC8189]
:
5.1.2. The Server response is thus changed as follows, with respect to

[RFC7285]

 and

•

the "meta" member has one additional ﬁeld "CalendarResponseAttributes", as speciﬁed for
the Filtered Cost Map Service, and

•

the calendared costs are JSONArrays instead of the JSONNumbers format used by legacy
ALTO implementations. All arrays have a number of values equal to 'number-of-intervals'.
Each value corresponds to the cost in that interval.

If the value of member "calendared" is equal to 'false' for a given requested cost type, the ALTO
Server

 return, for this cost type, a single cost value as speciﬁed in

[RFC7285]

MUST

.

5.2.3.  Use Case and Example: ECS with a routingcost Calendar

Let us assume an Application Client is located in an end system with limited resources and has
access to the network that is either intermittent or provides an acceptable quality in limited but
predictable time periods. Therefore, it needs to schedule both its resource-greedy networking
activities and its ALTO transactions.

The Application Client has the choice to trade content or resources with a set of endpoints and
needs to decide with which one it will connect and at what time. For instance, the endpoints are
spread in diﬀerent time zones or have intermittent access. In this example, the 'routingcost' is
assumed to be time-varying, with values provided as ALTO Calendars.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

The ALTO Client associated with the Application Client queries an ALTO Calendar on 'routingcost'
and will get the Calendar covering the 24-hour time period "containing" the date and time of the
ALTO Client request.

For cost type "num-routingcost", the solicited ALTO Server has deﬁned 3 diﬀerent daily patterns,
each represented by a Calendar to cover the week of Monday, June 30th at 00:00 to Sunday, July
6th 23:59:

•

C1 for Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday (weekdays)

•

C2 for Saturday and Sunday (weekends)

•

C3 for Friday (maintenance outage on July 4, 2019 from 02:00:00 GMT to 04:00:00 GMT or a
big holiday that is widely celebrated and generates a large number of connections).

In the following example, the ALTO Client sends its request on Tuesday, July 1st 2019 at 13:15.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

The "routingcost" values are assumed to be encoded in 3 digits.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

POST /calendar/endpointcost/lookup HTTP/1.1
Host: custom.alto.example.com
Content-Length: 304
Content-Type: application/alto-endpointcostparams+json
Accept: application/alto-endpointcost+json,
        application/alto-error+json

{
  "cost-type" : {"cost-mode" : "numerical",
                 "cost-metric" : "routingcost"},
  "calendared" : [true],
  "endpoints" : {
    "srcs": [ "ipv4:192.0.2.2" ],
    "dsts": [
      "ipv4:192.0.2.89",
      "ipv4:198.51.100.34",
      "ipv4:203.0.113.45",
      "ipv6:2001:db8::10"
    ]
  }
}

HTTP/1.1 200 OK

Content-Length: 1351
Content-Type: application/alto-endpointcost+json

{
  "meta" : {
    "cost-type" : {"cost-mode" : "numerical",
                   "cost-metric" : "routingcost"},
    "calendar-response-attributes" : [
      {"calendar-start-time" : "Mon, 30 Jun 2019 00:00:00 GMT",
       "time-interval-size" : 3600,
       "number-of-intervals" : 24,
       "repeated": 4
      }
    ]
  },
  "endpoint-cost-map" : {
    "ipv4:192.0.2.2": {
      "ipv4:192.0.2.89"    : [100, 100, 100, 100, 100, 150,
                              200, 300, 300, 300, 300, 250,
                              250, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300,
                              400, 250, 250, 200, 150, 150],
      "ipv4:198.51.100.34" : [ 80,  80,  80,  80, 150, 150,
                              250, 400, 400, 450, 400, 200,
                              200, 350, 400, 400, 400, 350,
                              500, 200, 200, 200, 100, 100],
      "ipv4:203.0.113.45"  : [300, 400, 250, 250, 200, 150,
                              150, 100, 100, 100, 100, 100,
                              100, 100, 100, 100, 100, 150,
                              200, 300, 300, 300, 300, 250],
      "ipv6:2001:db8::10"  : [200, 250, 300, 300, 300, 300,
                              250, 300, 300, 300, 300, 350,
                              300, 400, 250, 150, 100, 100,
                              100, 150, 200, 250, 250, 300]

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

    }
  }
}

When the Client gets the Calendar for "routingcost", it sees that the "calendar-start-time" is
Monday at 00h00 GMT and member "repeated" is equal to '4'. It understands that the provided
values are valid until Thursday and will only need to get a Calendar update on Friday.

5.2.4.  Use Case and Example: ECS with a Multi-cost Calendar for routingcost and owdelay

In this example, it is assumed that the ALTO Server implements multi-cost capabilities, as
speciﬁed in
types in one single transaction. An illustrating use case is a path selection done on the basis of 2
metrics: routingcost and owdelay.

 . That is, an ALTO Client can request and receive values for several cost

[RFC8189]

As in the previous example, the IRD indicates that the ALTO Server provides "routingcost"
Calendars in terms of 24 time intervals of 1 hour (3600 seconds) each.

For metric "owdelay", the IRD indicates that the ALTO Server provides Calendars in terms of 12
time interval values lasting 5 minutes (300 seconds) each.

In the following example transaction, the ALTO Client sends its request on Tuesday, July 1st 2019
at 13:15.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

This example assumes that the values of metric "owdelay" and "routingcost" are encoded in 3
digits.

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

POST calendar/endpointcost/lookup HTTP/1.1
Host: custom.alto.example.com
Content-Length: 390
Content-Type: application/alto-endpointcostparams+json
Accept: application/alto-endpointcost+json,
        application/alto-error+json

{
  "cost-type" : {},
  "multi-cost-types" : [
    {"cost-mode" : "numerical", "cost-metric" : "routingcost"},
    {"cost-mode" : "numerical", "cost-metric" : "owdelay"}
  ],
  "calendared" : [true, true],
  "endpoints" : {
    "srcs": [ "ipv4:192.0.2.2" ],
    "dsts": [
      "ipv4:192.0.2.89",
      "ipv4:198.51.100.34",
      "ipv4:203.0.113.45",
      "ipv6:2001:db8::10"
    ]
  }
}

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Length: 2165
Content-Type: application/alto-endpointcost+json

{
  "meta" : {
    "multi-cost-types" : [
      {"cost-mode" : "numerical", "cost-metric" : "routingcost"},
      {"cost-mode" : "numerical", "cost-metric" : "owdelay"}
    ],
    "calendar-response-attributes" : [
      {"cost-type-names" : [ "num-routingcost" ],
         "calendar-start-time" : "Mon, 30 Jun 2019 00:00:00 GMT",
         "time-interval-size" : 3600,
         "number-of-intervals" : 24,
         "repeated": 4 },
      {"cost-type-names" : [ "num-owdelay" ],
         "calendar-start-time" : "Tue, 1 Jul 2019 13:00:00 GMT",
         "time-interval-size" : 300,
         "number-of-intervals" : 12}
    ]
  },
  "endpoint-cost-map" : {
    "ipv4:192.0.2.2": {
      "ipv4:192.0.2.89"    : [[100, 100, 100, 100, 100, 150,
                               200, 300, 300, 300, 300, 250,
                               250, 300, 300, 300, 300, 300,
                               400, 250, 250, 200, 150, 150],
                              [ 20, 400,  20,  80,  80,  90,
                               100,  90,  60,  40,  30,  20]],
      "ipv4:198.51.100.34" : [[ 80,  80,  80,  80, 150, 150,
                               250, 400, 400, 450, 400, 200,

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

                               200, 350, 400, 400, 400, 350,
                               500, 200, 200, 200, 100, 100],
                              [ 20,  20,  50,  30,  30,  30,
                                30,  40,  40,  30,  20,  20]],
      "ipv4:203.0.113.45"  : [[300, 400, 250, 250, 200, 150,
                               150, 100, 100, 100, 100, 100,
                               100, 100, 100, 100, 100, 150,
                               200, 300, 300, 300, 300, 250],
                              [100,  90,  80,  60,  50,  50,
                                40,  40,  60,  90, 100,  80]],
      "ipv6:2001:db8::10"  : [[200, 250, 300, 300, 300, 300,
                               250, 300, 300, 300, 300, 350,
                               300, 400, 250, 150, 100, 100,
                               100, 150, 200, 250, 250, 300],
                              [ 40,  40,  40,  40,  50,  50,
                                50,  20,  10,  15,  30,  40]]
    }
  }
}

When receiving the response, the Client sees that the Calendar values for metric "routingcost"
are repeated for 4 iterations. Therefore, in its next requests until the "routingcost" Calendar is
expected to change, the Client will only need to request a Calendar for "owdelay".

Without the ALTO Calendar extensions, the ALTO Client would have no clue on the dynamicity of
the metric value change and would spend needless time requesting values at an inappropriate
pace. In addition, without the Multi-Cost ALTO capabilities, the ALTO Client would duplicate this
waste of time as it would need to send one request per cost metric.

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

7.  Security Considerations

As an extension of the base ALTO protocol
the base protocol and hence the security considerations (
) fully apply
when this extension is provided by an ALTO Server. For example, the same authenticity and
integrity considerations (
the privacy of ALTO users (

) still fully apply; the same considerations for

, this document ﬁts into the architecture of

Section 15.1 of [RFC7285]

Section 15.4 of [RFC7285]

Section 15 of [RFC7285]

) also still fully apply.

[RFC7285]

The calendaring information provided by this extension requires additional considerations on
three security considerations discussed in
: potential undesirable guidance to Clients
[RFC7285]
(
), and
Section 15.2 of [RFC7285]
). For example, by providing network information
availability of ALTO (
in the future in a Calendar, this extension may improve availability of ALTO when the ALTO
Server is unavailable but related information is already provided in the Calendar.

), conﬁdentiality of ALTO information (

Section 15.3 of [RFC7285]

Section 15.5 of [RFC7285]

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

For conﬁdentiality of ALTO information, an operator should be cognizant that this extension may
introduce a new risk, a malicious ALTO Client may get information for future events that are
scheduled through Calendaring. Possessing such information, the malicious Client may use it to
generate massive connections to the network at times where its load is expected to be high.

), the ALTO Server should authenticate ALTO Clients and use the Transport Layer

To mitigate this risk, the operator should address the risk of ALTO information being leaked to
malicious Clients or third parties. As speciﬁed in "Protection Strategies" (
[RFC7285]
Security (TLS) protocol so that man-in-the-middle (MITM) attacks to intercept an ALTO Calendar
are not possible. "Authentication and Encryption" (
availability of such a solution. It speciﬁes that "ALTO Server implementations as well as ALTO
 support the "https" URI scheme of
Client implementations
Security (TLS) of

Section 8.3.5 of [RFC7285]

 and Transport Layer

Section 15.3.2 of

) ensures the

MUST
".

[RFC2818]

[RFC5246]

[RFC8446]

 states: "While TLS 1.3 is not directly compatible with previous

Section 1 of TLS 1.3
versions, all versions of TLS incorporate a versioning mechanism which allows Clients and
Servers to interoperably negotiate a common version if one is supported by both peers". ALTO
Clients and Servers
[RFC5246]
support and use newer versions of TLS as long as the negotiation process succeeds.

 support both TLS 1.3

 and TLS 1.2

[RFC8446]

SHOULD

 and

MAY

The operator should be cognizant that the preceding mechanisms do not address all security
risks. In particular, they will not help in the case of "malicious Clients" possessing valid
authentication credentials. The threat here is that legitimate Clients have become subverted by
an attacker and are now 'bots' being asked to participate in a DDoS attack. The Calendar
information now becomes valuable in knowing exactly when to perpetrate a DDoS attack. A
mechanism, such as a monitoring system that detects abnormal behaviors, may still be needed.

To avoid malicious or erroneous guidance from ALTO information, an ALTO Client should be
cognizant that using calendaring information can have risks: (1) Calendar values, especially in
"repeated" Calendars, may be only statistical and (2) future events may change. Hence, a more
robust ALTO Client should adapt and extend protection strategies speciﬁed in
[RFC7285]
depends on changes, it is
extension support "Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) Incremental Updates Using
Server-Sent Events (SSE)"

. For example, to be notiﬁed immediately when a particular ALTO value that the Client

 that both the ALTO Client and ALTO Server using this

Section 15.2 of

RECOMMENDED

[RFC8895]

.

Another risk of erroneous guidance appears when the Server exposes an occurrence of a same
cost type name in diﬀerent elements of the Calendar objects array associated to an information
resource. In this case, there is no way for the Client to ﬁgure out which Calendar object in the
array is valid. The speciﬁcation in this document recommends, in this case, that the Client uses
the ﬁrst encountered Calendar object occurrence containing the cost type name. However, the
Client may want to avoid the risks of erroneous guidance associated to the use of potentially
invalid Calendar values. To this end, as an alternative to the recommendation in this document,
the Client
cost type name and query this cost type using

 ignore the totality of occurrences of CalendarAttributes objects containing the

.
[RFC7285]

MAY

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

8.  Operational Considerations

It is important that both the operator of the network and the operator of the applications
consider both the feedback aspect and the prediction-based (uncertainty) aspect of using the Cost
Calendar.

First, consider the feedback aspect and consider the Cost Calendar as a traﬃc-aware map service
(e.g., Google Maps). Using the service without considering its own eﬀect, a large ﬂeet can turn a
not-congested road into a congested one; a large number of individual cars each choosing a road
with light traﬃc ("cheap link") can also result in congestion or result in a less-optimal global
outcome (e.g., the Braess' Paradox

[BRAESS_PARADOX]

).

Next, consider the prediction aspect. Conveying ALTO Cost Calendars tends to reduce the on-the-
wire data exchange volume compared to multiple single-cost ALTO transactions. An application
using Calendars has a set of time-dependent values upon which it can plan its connections in
advance with no need for the ALTO Client to query information at each time. Additionally, the
Calendar response attribute "repeated", when provided, saves additional data exchanges in that
it indicates that the ALTO Client does not need to query Calendars during a period indicated by
this attribute. The preceding is true only when "accidents" do not happen.

Although individual network operators and application operators can choose their own
approaches to address the aforementioned issues, this document recommends the following
considerations. First, a typical approach to reducing instability and handling uncertainty is to
ensure timely update of information. The SSE Service, as discussed in Section 7, can handle
updates if supported by both the Server and the Client. Second, when a network operator
updates the Cost Calendar and when an application reacts to the update, they should consider
the feedback eﬀects. This is the best approach even though there is theoretical analysis
 showing that
[SELFISH_RTG_2002]
uncoordinated behaviors do not always cause substantial suboptimal results.

 and Internet-based evaluation

[SELFISH_RTG_2003]

High-resolution intervals may be needed when values change, sometimes during very small time
intervals but in a signiﬁcant manner. A way to avoid conveying too many entries is to leverage
on the "repeated" feature. A Server can smartly set the Calendar start time and number of
intervals so as to declare them "repeated" for a large number of periods until the Calendar values
change and are conveyed to requesting Clients.

[RFC8259]
 used in the base ALTO protocol

The newer JSON Data Interchange Format speciﬁcation
replaces the older one
[RFC7159]
mandates UTF-8 text encoding to improve interoperability. Therefore, ALTO Clients and Servers
implementations using UTF-{16,32} need to be cognizant of the subsequent interoperability risks
and
and Clients.

 switch to UTF-8 encoding if they want to interoperate with Calendar-aware Servers

 used in ALTO Calendars
[RFC7285]

. The newer JSON

MUST

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[IEEE.754.2019]

[RFC2119]

[RFC5246]

[RFC7231]

[RFC7285]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8189]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8895]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Floating-Point Arithmetic" IEEE 754-2019 DOI
, June 2019,

<https://doi.org/10.1109/

,

,

10.1109/IEEESTD.2019.8766229
IEEESTD.2019.8766229>

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Dierks, T. and E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
info/rfc5246>

, August 2008,

,
.

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Semantics and Content" RFC 7231 DOI 10.17487/RFC7231
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7231>

, June 2014,

,
,
.

<https://

,

Alimi, R., Ed., Penno, R., Ed., Yang, Y., Ed., Kiesel, S., Previdi, S., Roome, W.,
Shalunov, S., and R. Woundy "Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)
Protocol" RFC 7285 DOI 10.17487/RFC7285
editor.org/info/rfc7285>

, September 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Randriamasy, S., Roome, W., and N. Schwan "Multi-Cost Application-Layer
Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)" RFC 8189 DOI 10.17487/RFC8189
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8189>

, October 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Roome, W. and Y. Yang "Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)
Incremental Updates Using Server-Sent Events (SSE)" RFC 8895 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8895

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8895>

, November 2020,

,

,

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

[ALTO_METRICS]

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

Wu, Q., Yang, Y. R., Dhody, D., Randriamasy, S., and L. M. Contreras "ALTO
Performance Cost Metrics" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-alto-
performance-metrics-09
performance-metrics-09>

, 9 March 2020,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-alto-

,

,

,

.

[BRAESS_PARADOX]

Steinberg, R. and W. Zangwill "The Prevalence of Braess' Paradox"

,
Transportation Science Vol. 17, No. 3 DOI 10.1287/trsc.17.3.301
,
<https://doi.org/10.1287/trsc.17.3.301>
.

,

, 1 August 1983,

[RFC2818]

[RFC5693]

[RFC6708]

[RFC7159]

Rescorla, E. "HTTP Over TLS" RFC 2818 DOI 10.17487/RFC2818
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2818>

,

,

.

, May 2000,

Seedorf, J. and E. Burger "Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)
Problem Statement" RFC 5693 DOI 10.17487/RFC5693
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5693>

, October 2009,

,

,

,

.

<https://

Kiesel, S., Ed., Previdi, S., Stiemerling, M., Woundy, R., and Y. Yang "Application-
Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) Requirements" RFC 6708 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6708

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6708>

, September 2012,

,

,

.

,

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
, March 2014,
RFC 7159 DOI 10.17487/RFC7159
rfc7159>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

[SELFISH_RTG_2002]

Roughgarden, T. "Selﬁsh Routing" Dissertation Thesis, Cornell

,

,

, May 2002.

[SELFISH_RTG_2003]

Qiu, L., Yang, Y., Zhang, Y., and S. Shenker "Selﬁsh Routing in Internet-
Like Environments" Proceedings of SIGCOMM '03 DOI 10.1145/863955.863974
August 2003,

<https://doi.org/10.1145/863955.863974>

,

,

.

,

,

[SENSE]

Department of Energy Oﬃce of Science Advanced Scientiﬁc Computing
Research (ASCR) Program "SDN for End-to-End Networked Science at the
Exascale (SENSE)" <http://sense.es.net/overview>

,

,

.

[UNICORN-FGCS]

Xiang, Q., Wang, T., Zhang, J., Newman, H., Yang, Y., and Y. Liu "Unicorn:

,

Uniﬁed resource orchestration for multi-domain, geo-distributed data
analytics" Future Generation Computer Systems (FGCS), Vol. 93, Pages 188-197
DOI 10.1016/j.future.2018.09.048 ISSN 0167-739X
doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2018.09.048>

, March 2019,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
fruitful discussions and feedback on earlier draft versions.
Yichen Qian Jürgen Schönwälder Brian Weis
feedback and suggestions to the protocol design.

, and

,

,

Fred Baker Li Geng Diego Lopez He Peng
,

,

,

Haibin Song
, and
Dawn Chan Kai Gao Vijay Gurbani
,

 for
,

,

Jensen Zhang

 provided substantial review

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8896

ALTO Cost Calendar

November 2020

Authors' Addresses

Sabine Randriamasy
Nokia Bell Labs
Route de Villejust
91460 Nozay
France
Email:

 Sabine.Randriamasy@nokia-bell-labs.com

Y. Richard Yang
Yale University
51 Prospect St.
New Haven CT 06520
,
United States of America
 yry@cs.yale.edu
Email:

Qin Wu
Huawei
Yuhua District
101 Software Avenue
Nanjing
Jiangsu 210012
,
China
Email:

 sunseawq@huawei.com

Lingli Deng
China Mobile
China
Email:

 denglingli@chinamobile.com

Nico Schwan
Thales Deutschland
Lorenzstrasse 10
70435 Stuttgart
Germany
Email:

 nico.schwan@thalesgroup.com

Randriamasy, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

