Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8827
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
E. Rescorla
Mozilla

RFC 8827
WebRTC Security Architecture

Abstract

This document deﬁnes the security architecture for WebRTC, a protocol suite intended for use
with real-time applications that can be deployed in browsers -- "real-time communication on the
Web".

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8827

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modiﬁcations of

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modiﬁed
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Trust Model

3.1.  Authenticated Entities

3.2.  Unauthenticated Entities

4.  Overview

4.1.  Initial Signaling

4.2.  Media Consent Veriﬁcation

4.3.  DTLS Handshake

4.4.  Communications and Consent Freshness

5.  SDP Identity Attribute

5.1.  Oﬀer/Answer Considerations

5.1.1.  Generating the Initial SDP Oﬀer

5.1.2.  Generating an SDP Answer

5.1.3.  Processing an SDP Oﬀer or Answer

5.1.4.  Modifying the Session

6.  Detailed Technical Description

6.1.  Origin and Web Security Issues

6.2.  Device Permissions Model

6.3.  Communications Consent

6.4.  IP Location Privacy

6.5.  Communications Security

7.  Web-Based Peer Authentication

7.1.  Trust Relationships: IdPs, APs, and RPs

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

7.2.  Overview of Operation

7.3.  Items for Standardization

7.4.  Binding Identity Assertions to JSEP Oﬀer/Answer Transactions

7.4.1.  Carrying Identity Assertions

7.5.  Determining the IdP URI

7.5.1.  Authenticating Party

7.5.2.  Relying Party

7.6.  Requesting Assertions

7.7.  Managing User Login

8.  Verifying Assertions

8.1.  Identity Formats

9.  Security Considerations

9.1.  Communications Security

9.2.  Privacy

9.3.  Denial of Service

9.4.  IdP Authentication Mechanism

9.4.1.  PeerConnection Origin Check

9.4.2.  IdP Well-Known URI

9.4.3.  Privacy of IdP-Generated Identities and the Hosting Site

9.4.4.  Security of Third-Party IdPs

9.4.4.1.  Confusable Characters

9.4.5.  Web Security Feature Interactions

9.4.5.1.  Popup Blocking

9.4.5.2.  Third Party Cookies

10. IANA Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

1.  Introduction

The Real-Time Communications on the Web (RTCWEB) Working Group standardized protocols
for real-time communications between Web browsers, generally called "WebRTC"
major use cases for WebRTC technology are real-time audio and/or video calls, Web
conferencing, and direct data transfer. Unlike most conventional real-time systems (e.g., SIP-
 soft phones), WebRTC communications are directly controlled by some Web
based
server, via a JavaScript (JS) API as shown in Figure 1.

[RFC8825]

[RFC3261]

. The

                         +----------------+
                         |                |
                         |   Web Server   |
                         |                |
                         +----------------+
                             ^        ^
                            /          \
                    HTTP   /            \   HTTP
                          /              \
                         /                \
                        v                  v
                     JS API              JS API
               +-----------+            +-----------+
               |           |    Media   |           |
               |  Browser  |<---------->|  Browser  |
               |           |            |           |
               +-----------+            +-----------+

Figure 1: A Simple WebRTC System

A more complicated system might allow for inter-domain calling, as shown in Figure 2. The
protocol to be used between the domains is not standardized by WebRTC, but given the installed
base and the form of the WebRTC API is likely to be something SDP-based like SIP or something
like the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP)

[RFC6120]

.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

          +--------------+                +--------------+
          |              | SIP, XMPP, ... |              |
          |  Web Server  |<-------------->|  Web Server  |
          |              |                |              |
          +--------------+                +--------------+
                 ^                                ^
                 |                                |
           HTTP  |                                |  HTTP
                 |                                |
                 v                                v
                 JS API                       JS API
           +-----------+                     +-----------+
           |           |        Media        |           |
           |  Browser  |<------------------->|  Browser  |
           |           |                     |           |
           +-----------+                     +-----------+

Figure 2: A Multidomain WebRTC System

[RFC8826]
This system presents a number of new security challenges, which are analyzed in
.
This document describes a security architecture for WebRTC which addresses the threats and
requirements described in that document.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Trust Model

The basic assumption of this architecture is that network resources exist in a hierarchy of trust,
rooted in the browser, which serves as the user's Trusted Computing Base (TCB). Any security
property which the user wishes to have enforced must be ultimately guaranteed by the browser
(or transitively by some property the browser veriﬁes). Conversely, if the browser is
compromised, then no security guarantees are possible. Note that there are cases (e.g., Internet
kiosks) where the user can't really trust the browser that much. In these cases, the level of
security provided is limited by how much they trust the browser.

Optimally, we would not rely on trust in any entities other than the browser. However, this is
unfortunately not possible if we wish to have a functional system. Other network elements fall
into two categories: those which can be authenticated by the browser and thus can be granted
permissions to access sensitive resources, and those which cannot be authenticated and thus are
untrusted.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

3.1.  Authenticated Entities

There are two major classes of authenticated entities in the system:

Calling services:

Web sites whose origin we can verify (optimally via HTTPS, but in some cases
because we are on a topologically restricted network, such as behind a ﬁrewall, and can infer
authentication from ﬁrewall behavior).

Other users:
SRTP).

WebRTC peers whose origin we can verify cryptographically (optimally via DTLS-

Note that merely being authenticated does not make these entities trusted. For instance, just
because we can verify that <https://www.example.org/> is owned by Dr. Evil does not mean that
we can trust Dr. Evil to access our camera and microphone. However, it gives the user an
opportunity to determine whether they wish to trust Dr. Evil or not; after all, if they desire to
contact Dr. Evil (perhaps to arrange for ransom payment), it's safe to temporarily give them
access to the camera and microphone for the purpose of the call, but they don't want Dr. Evil to
be able to access their camera and microphone other than during the call. The point here is that
we must ﬁrst identify other elements before we can determine whether and how much to trust
them. Additionally, sometimes we need to identify the communicating peer before we know what
policies to apply.

3.2.  Unauthenticated Entities

Other than the above entities, we are not generally able to identify other network elements; thus,
we cannot trust them. This does not mean that it is not possible to have any interaction with
them, but it means that we must assume that they will behave maliciously and design a system
which is secure even if they do so.

4.  Overview

This section describes a typical WebRTC session and shows how the various security elements
interact and what guarantees are provided to the user. The example in this section is a "best
case" scenario in which we provide the maximal amount of user authentication and media
privacy with the minimal level of trust in the calling service. Simpler versions with lower levels
of security are also possible and are noted in the text where applicable. It's also important to
recognize the tension between security (or performance) and privacy. The example shown here
is aimed towards settings where we are more concerned about secure calling than about privacy,
but as we shall see, there are settings where one might wish to make diﬀerent tradeoﬀs -- this
architecture is still compatible with those settings.

For the purposes of this example, we assume the topology shown in the ﬁgures below. This
topology is derived from the topology shown in Figure 1, but separates Alice's and Bob's
identities from the process of signaling. Speciﬁcally, Alice and Bob have relationships with some
Identity Provider (IdP) that supports a protocol (such as OpenID Connect) that can be used to

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

demonstrate their identity to other parties. For instance, Alice might have an account with a
social network which she can then use to authenticate to other Web sites without explicitly
having an account with those sites; this is a fairly conventional pattern on the Web. Section 7.1
provides an overview of IdPs and the relevant terminology. Alice and Bob might have
relationships with diﬀerent IdPs as well. Note: The IdP mechanism described here has not seen
wide adoption. See Section 7 for more on the status of IdP-based authentication.

This separation of identity provision and signaling isn't particularly important in "closed world"
cases where Alice and Bob are users on the same social network and have identities based on
that domain (Figure 3). However, there are important settings where that is not the case, such as
federation (calls from one domain to another; see Figure 4) and calling on untrusted sites, such
as where two users who have a relationship via a given social network want to call each other on
another, untrusted, site, such as a poker site.

Note that the servers themselves are also authenticated by an external identity service, the SSL/
TLS certiﬁcate infrastructure (not shown). As is conventional in the Web, all identities are
ultimately rooted in that system. For instance, when an IdP makes an identity assertion, the
Relying Party consuming that assertion is able to verify because it is able to connect to the IdP via
HTTPS.

                            +----------------+
                            |                |
                            |     Signaling  |
                            |     Server     |
                            |                |
                            +----------------+
                                ^        ^
                               /          \
                       HTTPS  /            \   HTTPS
                             /              \
                            /                \
                           v                  v
                        JS API              JS API
                  +-----------+            +-----------+
                  |           |    Media   |           |
            Alice |  Browser  |<---------->|  Browser  | Bob
                  |           | (DTLS+SRTP)|           |
                  +-----------+            +-----------+
                        ^      ^--+     +--^     ^
                        |         |     |        |
                        v         |     |        v
                  +-----------+   |     |  +-----------+
                  |           |<--------+  |           |
                  |   IdP1    |   |        |    IdP2   |
                  |           |   +------->|           |
                  +-----------+            +-----------+

Figure 3: A Call with IdP-Based Identity

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

Figure 4 shows essentially the same calling scenario but with a call between two separate
domains (i.e., a federated case), as in Figure 2. As mentioned above, the domains communicate
by some unspeciﬁed protocol, and providing separate signaling and identity allows for calls to be
authenticated regardless of the details of the inter-domain protocol.

        +----------------+    Unspecified    +----------------+
        |                |      protocol     |                |
        |    Signaling   |<----------------->|    Signaling   |
        |    Server      |  (SIP, XMPP, ...) |    Server      |
        |                |                   |                |
        +----------------+                   +----------------+
                 ^                                   ^
                 |                                   |
           HTTPS |                                   | HTTPS
                 |                                   |
                 |                                   |
                 v                                   v
              JS API                               JS API
        +-----------+                             +-----------+
        |           |             Media           |           |
  Alice |  Browser  |<--------------------------->|  Browser  | Bob
        |           |           DTLS+SRTP         |           |
        +-----------+                             +-----------+
              ^      ^--+                      +--^     ^
              |         |                      |        |
              v         |                      |        v
        +-----------+   |                      |  +-----------+
        |           |<-------------------------+  |           |
        |   IdP1    |   |                         |    IdP2   |
        |           |   +------------------------>|           |
        +-----------+                             +-----------+

Figure 4: A Federated Call with IdP-Based Identity

4.1.  Initial Signaling

For simplicity, assume the topology in Figure 3. Alice and Bob are both users of a common calling
service; they both have approved the calling service to make calls (we defer the discussion of
device access permissions until later). They are both connected to the calling service via HTTPS
and so know the origin with some level of conﬁdence. They also have accounts with some IdP.
This sort of identity service is becoming increasingly common in the Web environment (with
technologies such as Federated Google Login, Facebook Connect, OAuth, OpenID, WebFinger),
and is often provided as a side eﬀect service of a user's ordinary accounts with some service. In
this example, we show Alice and Bob using a separate identity service, though the identity
service may be the same entity as the calling service or there may be no identity service at all.

Alice is logged onto the calling service and decides to call Bob. She can see from the calling
service that he is online and the calling service presents a JS UI in the form of a button next to
Bob's name which says "Call". Alice clicks the button, which initiates a JS callback that
instantiates a PeerConnection object. This does not require a security check: JS from any origin is
allowed to get this far.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

Once the PeerConnection is created, the calling service JS needs to set up some media. Because
this is an audio/video call, it creates a MediaStream with two MediaStreamTracks, one connected
to an audio input and one connected to a video input. At this point, the ﬁrst security check is
required: untrusted origins are not allowed to access the camera and microphone, so the
browser prompts Alice for permission.

In the current W3C API, once some streams have been added, Alice's browser + JS generates a
signaling message

 containing:

[RFC8829]

•

Media channel information

•

Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)

[RFC8445]

 candidates

•

. Note that this
A "ﬁngerprint" attribute binding the communication to a key pair
key may simply be ephemerally generated for this call or speciﬁc to this domain, and Alice
may have a large number of such keys.

[RFC5763]

Prior to sending out the signaling message, the PeerConnection code contacts the identity service
and obtains an assertion binding Alice's identity to her ﬁngerprint. The exact details depend on
the identity service (though as discussed in Section 7 PeerConnection can be agnostic to them),
but for now it's easiest to think of as an OAuth token. The assertion may bind other information
to the identity besides the ﬁngerprint, but at minimum it needs to bind the ﬁngerprint.

[fetch]

[RFC8446]

,
[RFC6455]

 or by WebSockets

. The signaling server processes the message from Alice's browser,

This message is sent to the signaling server, e.g., by fetch()
over TLS
determines that this is a call to Bob, and sends a signaling message to Bob's browser (again, the
format is currently undeﬁned). The JS on Bob's browser processes it, and alerts Bob to the
incoming call and to Alice's identity. In this case, Alice has provided an identity assertion and so
Bob's browser contacts Alice's IdP (again, this is done in a generic way so the browser has no
speciﬁc knowledge of the IdP) to verify the assertion. It is also possible to have IdPs with which
the browser has a speciﬁc trust relationship, as described in Section 7.1. This allows the browser
to display a trusted element in the browser chrome indicating that a call is coming in from Alice.
If Alice is in Bob's address book, then this interface might also include her real name, a picture,
etc. The calling site will also provide some user interface element (e.g., a button) to allow Bob to
answer the call, though this is most likely not part of the trusted UI.

If Bob agrees, a PeerConnection is instantiated with the message from Alice's side. Then, a similar
process occurs as on Alice's browser: Bob's browser prompts him for device permission, the
media streams are created, and a return signaling message containing media information, ICE
candidates, and a ﬁngerprint is sent back to Alice via the signaling service. If Bob has a
relationship with an IdP, the message will also come with an identity assertion.

At this point, Alice and Bob each know that the other party wants to have a secure call with
them. Based purely on the interface provided by the signaling server, they know that the
signaling server claims that the call is from Alice to Bob. This level of security is provided merely
by having the ﬁngerprint in the message and having that message received securely from the
signaling server. Because the far end sent an identity assertion along with their message, they

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

know that this is veriﬁable from the IdP as well. Note that if the call is federated, as shown in
Figure 4, then Alice is able to verify Bob's identity in a way that is not mediated by either her
signaling server or Bob's. Rather, she veriﬁes it directly with Bob's IdP.

Of course, the call works perfectly well if either Alice or Bob doesn't have a relationship with an
IdP; they just get a lower level of assurance. I.e., they simply have whatever information their
calling site claims about the caller/callee's identity. Moreover, Alice might wish to make an
anonymous call through an anonymous calling site, in which case she would of course just not
provide any identity assertion and the calling site would mask her identity from Bob.

4.2.  Media Consent Veriﬁcation

[RFC8826], Section 4.2

, media consent veriﬁcation is provided via ICE. Thus, Alice
As described in
and Bob perform ICE checks with each other. At the completion of these checks, they are ready to
send non-ICE data.

At this point, Alice knows that (a) Bob (assuming he is veriﬁed via his IdP) or someone else who
the signaling service is claiming is Bob is willing to exchange traﬃc with her and (b) either Bob is
at the IP address which she has veriﬁed via ICE or there is an attacker who is on-path to that IP
address detouring the traﬃc. Note that it is not possible for an attacker who is on-path between
Alice and Bob but not attached to the signaling service to spoof these checks because they do not
have the ICE credentials. Bob has the same security guarantees with respect to Alice.

4.3.  DTLS Handshake

[RFC6347]

 and DTLS-SRTP

Once the requisite ICE checks have completed, Alice and Bob can set up a secure channel or
channels. This is performed via DTLS
 keying for SRTP
[RFC3711]
 for the media channel and the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) over DTLS
 for data channels. Speciﬁcally, Alice and Bob perform a DTLS handshake on every
[RFC8261]
component which has been established by ICE. The total number of channels depends on the
amount of muxing; in the most likely case, we are using both RTP/RTCP mux and muxing
multiple media streams on the same channel, in which case there is only one DTLS handshake.
Once the DTLS handshake has completed, the keys are exported
for the media channels.

 and used to key SRTP

[RFC5763]

[RFC5705]

At this point, Alice and Bob know that they share a set of secure data and/or media channels with
keys which are not known to any third-party attacker. If Alice and Bob authenticated via their
IdPs, then they also know that the signaling service is not mounting a man-in-the-middle attack
on their traﬃc. Even if they do not use an IdP, as long as they have minimal trust in the signaling
service not to perform a man-in-the-middle attack, they know that their communications are
secure against the signaling service as well (i.e., that the signaling service cannot mount a passive
attack on the communications).

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

4.4.  Communications and Consent Freshness

From a security perspective, everything from here on in is a little anticlimactic: Alice and Bob
exchange data protected by the keys negotiated by DTLS. Because of the security guarantees
discussed in the previous sections, they know that the communications are encrypted and
authenticated.

The one remaining security property we need to establish is "consent freshness", i.e., allowing
Alice to verify that Bob is still prepared to receive her communications so that Alice does not
continue to send large traﬃc volumes to entities which went abruptly oﬄine. ICE speciﬁes
periodic Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) keepalives but only if media is not ﬂowing.
Because the consent issue is more diﬃcult here, we require WebRTC implementations to
[RFC7675]
periodically send keepalives using the consent freshness mechanism speciﬁed in
keepalive fails and no new ICE channels can be established, then the session is terminated.

. If a

5.  SDP Identity Attribute

The SDP "identity" attribute is a session-level attribute that is used by an endpoint to convey its
identity assertion to its peer. The identity-assertion value is encoded as base64, as described in
Section 4 of [RFC4648]

.

The procedures in this section are based on the assumption that the identity assertion of an
endpoint is bound to the ﬁngerprints of the endpoint. This does not preclude the deﬁnition of
alternative means of binding an assertion to the endpoint, but such means are outside the scope
of this speciﬁcation.

The semantics of multiple "identity" attributes within an oﬀer or answer are undeﬁned.
Implementations
Relying Parties

 elect to ignore all but the ﬁrst "identity" attribute.

 only include a single "identity" attribute in an oﬀer or answer, and

SHOULD

MAY

Name:

identity

Value:

identity-assertion

Usage Level:

session

Charset Dependent:

no

Default Value:

N/A

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8827

Syntax:

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

 identity-assertion       = identity-assertion-value
                            *(SP identity-extension)
 identity-assertion-value = base64
 identity-extension       = extension-name [ "=" extension-value ]
 extension-name           = token
 extension-value          = 1*(%x01-09 / %x0b-0c / %x0e-3a / %x3c-ff)
                            ; byte-string from [RFC4566]

 <ALPHA and DIGIT as defined in [RFC4566]>
 <base64 as defined in [RFC4566]>

Example:

 a=identity:\
   eyJpZHAiOnsiZG9tYWluIjoiZXhhbXBsZS5vcmciLCJwcm90b2NvbCI6ImJvZ3Vz\
   In0sImFzc2VydGlvbiI6IntcImlkZW50aXR5XCI6XCJib2JAZXhhbXBsZS5vcmdc\
   IixcImNvbnRlbnRzXCI6XCJhYmNkZWZnaGlqa2xtbm9wcXJzdHV2d3l6XCIsXCJz\
   aWduYXR1cmVcIjpcIjAxMDIwMzA0MDUwNlwifSJ9

Note that long lines in the example are folded to meet the column width constraints
of this document; the backslash ("\") at the end of a line, the carriage return that
follows, and whitespace shall be ignored.

This speciﬁcation does not deﬁne any extensions for the attribute.

The identity-assertion value is a JSON encoded string
keys: "assertion" and "idp". The "assertion" key value contains an opaque string that is consumed
by the IdP. The "idp" key value contains a dictionary with one or two further values that identify
the IdP. See Section 7.6 for more details.

. The JSON object contains two

[RFC8259]

5.1.  Oﬀer/Answer Considerations

This section deﬁnes the SDP oﬀer/answer
attribute.

[RFC3264]

 considerations for the SDP "identity"

Within this section, 'initial oﬀer' refers to the ﬁrst oﬀer in the SDP session that contains an SDP
"identity" attribute.

5.1.1.  Generating the Initial SDP Oﬀer

When an oﬀerer sends an oﬀer, in order to provide its identity assertion to the peer, it includes
an "identity" attribute in the oﬀer. In addition, the oﬀerer includes one or more SDP "ﬁngerprint"
attributes. The "identity" attribute
 be bound to all the "ﬁngerprint" attributes in the session
description.

MUST

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

5.1.2.  Generating an SDP Answer

If the answerer elects to include an "identity" attribute, it follows the same steps as those in
Section 5.1.1. The answerer can choose to include or omit an "identity" attribute independently,
regardless of whether the oﬀerer did so.

5.1.3.  Processing an SDP Oﬀer or Answer

When an endpoint receives an oﬀer or answer that contains an "identity" attribute, the answerer
can use the attribute information to contact the IdP and verify the identity of the peer. If the
identity requires a third-party IdP as described in Section 7.1, then that IdP will need to have
been speciﬁcally conﬁgured. If the identity veriﬁcation fails, the answerer
or answer as malformed.

 discard the oﬀer

MUST

5.1.4.  Modifying the Session

When modifying a session, if the set of ﬁngerprints is unchanged, then the sender
same "identity" attribute. In this case, the established identity
connections as well as new connections established using one of those ﬁngerprints. Note that
 requires that each media section use the same set of ﬁngerprints. If a
[RFC8829], Section 5.2.1
 apply that identity to all existing
new "identity" attribute is received, then the receiver
connections.

 send the
 be applied to existing DTLS

MUST

MUST

MAY

If the set of ﬁngerprints changes, then the sender
none at all. Because a change in ﬁngerprints also causes a new DTLS connection to be
established, the receiver

 discard all previously established identities.

MUST

MUST

 either send a new "identity" attribute or

6.  Detailed Technical Description

6.1.  Origin and Web Security Issues

. Because the security of the
The basic unit of permissions for WebRTC is the origin
origin depends on being able to authenticate content from that origin, the origin can only be
securely established if data is transferred over HTTPS
 treat HTTP
and HTTPS origins as diﬀerent permissions domains. Note: This follows directly from the origin
security model and is stated here merely for clarity.

. Thus, clients

[RFC2818]

[RFC6454]

MUST

Many Web browsers currently forbid by default any active mixed content on HTTPS pages. That
is, when JavaScript is loaded from an HTTP origin onto an HTTPS page, an error is displayed and
the HTTP content is not executed unless the user overrides the error. Any browser which
enforces such a policy will also not permit access to WebRTC functionality from mixed content
pages (because they never display mixed content). Browsers which allow active mixed content
MUST

 nevertheless disable WebRTC functionality in mixed content settings.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

Note that it is possible for a page which was not mixed content to become mixed content during
the duration of the call. The major risk here is that the newly arrived insecure JS might redirect
media to a location controlled by the attacker. Implementations
the call or display a warning at that point.

 either choose to terminate

MUST

Also note that the security architecture depends on the keying material not being available to
move between origins. However, it is assumed that the identity assertion can be passed to
anyone that the page cares to.

6.2.  Device Permissions Model

Implementations
or microphone. Implementations
models for HTTPS origins.

MUST

 obtain explicit user consent prior to providing access to the camera and/

MUST

 at minimum support the following two permissions

•

Requests for one-time camera/microphone access.

•

Requests for permanent access.

Because HTTP origins cannot be securely established against network attackers,
implementations

 refuse all permissions grants for HTTP origins.

MUST

SHOULD

In addition, they
 support requests for access that promise that media from this grant
will be sent to a single communicating peer (obviously there could be other requests for other
peers), e.g., "Call customerservice@example.org". The semantics of this request are that the
media stream from the camera and microphone will only be routed through a connection which
has been cryptographically veriﬁed (through the IdP mechanism or an X.509 certiﬁcate in the
DTLS-SRTP handshake) as being associated with the stated identity. Note that it is unlikely that
browsers would have X.509 certiﬁcates, but servers might. Browsers servicing such requests
SHOULD
this type of permissions is that a user might have a fairly narrow list of peers they are willing to
communicate with, e.g., "my mother" rather than "anyone on Facebook". Narrow permissions
grants allow the browser to do that enforcement.

 clearly indicate that identity to the user when asking for permission. The idea behind

API Requirement:

The API

MUST

 provide a mechanism for the requesting JS to relinquish the

ability to see or modify the media (e.g., via MediaStream.record()). Combined with secure
authentication of the communicating peer, this allows a user to be sure that the calling site is
not accessing or modifying their conversion.

UI Requirement:

The UI

MUST

 clearly indicate when the user's camera and microphone are in

use. This indication
 clearly indicate how to
 be suppressible by the JS and
terminate device access, and provide a UI means to immediately stop camera/microphone
input without the JS being able to prevent it.

MUST NOT

MUST

UI Requirement:

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

If the UI indication of camera/microphone use is displayed in the browser such that
minimizing the browser window would hide the indication, or the JS creating an overlapping
window would hide the indication, then the browser
input when the indication is hidden. (Note: This may not be necessary in systems that are
non-windows-based but that have good notiﬁcations support, such as phones.)

 stop camera and microphone

SHOULD

•

MUST NOT

 permit permanent screen or application sharing permissions to be

Browsers
installed as a response to a JS request for permissions. Instead, they must require some other
user action such as a permissions setting or an application install experience to grant
permission to a site.

•

MUST

 provide a separate dialog request for screen/application sharing permissions

Browsers
even if the media request is made at the same time as the request for camera and
microphone permissions.

•

MUST

The browser
unambiguous way. Windows which are not visible
application is being shared. If the screen is being shared, then that

MUST NOT

 indicate any windows which are currently being shared in some

 be shared even if the

MUST

 be indicated.

MAY

Browsers
 permit the formation of data channels without any direct user approval. Because
sites can always tunnel data through the server, further restrictions on the data channel do not
provide any additional security. (See Section 6.3 for a related issue.)

Implementations which support some form of direct user authentication
 also provide a
policy by which a user can authorize calls only to speciﬁc communicating peers. Speciﬁcally, the
implementation

 provide the following interfaces/controls:

SHOULD

SHOULD

•

Allow future calls to this veriﬁed user.

•

Allow future calls to any veriﬁed user who is in my system address book (this only works
with address book integration, of course).

Implementations
progress to users whose identities are directly veriﬁable. Section 6.5 provides more on this.

 also provide a diﬀerent user interface indication when calls are in

SHOULD

6.3.  Communications Consent

Browser client implementations of WebRTC
implementations which operate only at public IP addresses
ICE-Lite

[RFC8445]

MUST

.

 implement ICE. Server gateway

MUST

 implement either full ICE or

MUST

 verify reachability via ICE prior to sending any non-ICE packets

Browser implementations
to a given destination. Implementations
 provide the ICE transaction ID to JavaScript
during the lifetime of the transaction (i.e., during the period when the ICE stack would accept a
new response for that transaction). The JS
 be permitted to control the local ufrag and
MUST NOT
password, though it of course knows it.

MUST NOT

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

 keepalives use STUN Binding
While continuing consent is required, the ICE
Indications, which are one-way and therefore not suﬃcient. The current WG consensus is to use
ICE Binding Requests for continuing consent freshness. ICE already requires that
implementations respond to such requests, so this approach is maximally compatible. A separate
document will proﬁle the ICE timers to be used; see

[RFC8445], Section 11

.
[RFC7675]

6.4.  IP Location Privacy

A side eﬀect of the default ICE behavior is that the peer learns one's IP address, which leaks large
amounts of location information. This has negative privacy consequences in some
circumstances. The API requirements in this section are intended to mitigate this issue. Note that
these requirements are not intended to protect the user's IP address from a malicious site. In
general, the site will learn at least a user's server-reﬂexive address from any HTTP transaction.
Rather, these requirements are intended to allow a site to cooperate with the user to hide the
user's IP address from the other side of the call. Hiding the user's IP address from the server
requires some sort of explicit privacy-preserving mechanism on the client (e.g., Tor Browser
<https://www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser.html.en>
speciﬁcation.

) and is out of scope for this

API Requirement:

The API

MUST

 provide a mechanism to allow the JS to suppress ICE

negotiation (though perhaps to allow candidate gathering) until the user has decided to
answer the call. (Note: Determining when the call has been answered is a question for the JS.)
This enables a user to prevent a peer from learning their IP address if they elect not to answer
a call and also from learning whether the user is online.

API Requirement:

The API

MUST

 provide a mechanism for the calling application JS to indicate

that only TURN candidates are to be used. This prevents the peer from learning one's IP
address at all. This mechanism
since that leaks local addresses.

 also permit suppression of the related address ﬁeld,

MUST

API Requirement:

The API

MUST

 provide a mechanism for the calling application to reconﬁgure

an existing call to add non-TURN candidates. Taken together, this and the previous
requirement allow ICE negotiation to start immediately on incoming call notiﬁcation, thus
reducing post-dial delay, but also to avoid disclosing the user's IP address until they have
decided to answer. They also allow users to completely hide their IP address for the duration
of the call. Finally, they allow a mechanism for the user to optimize performance by
reconﬁguring to allow non-TURN candidates during an active call if the user decides they no
longer need to hide their IP address.

Note that some enterprises may operate proxies and/or NATs designed to hide internal IP
addresses from the outside world. WebRTC provides no explicit mechanism to allow this
function. Either such enterprises need to proxy the HTTP/HTTPS and modify the SDP and/or the
JS, or there needs to be browser support to set the "TURN-only" policy regardless of the site's
preferences.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

Note: These requirements are intended to allow sites to conceal the user's IP address from the
peer. For guidance on concealing the user's IP address from the calling site see

[RFC8828]
.

6.5.  Communications Security

Implementations
and DTLS-SRTP
DTLS
[RFC8261]

MUST

 support SRTP

[RFC5763] [RFC5764]
.

[RFC3711]

MUST
 for SRTP keying. Implementations

. Implementations

 support DTLS
MUST

[RFC6347]
 support SCTP over

 be secured via SRTP and the Secure Real-time Transport Control

MUST NOT

 be sent over plain (unencrypted) RTP or RTCP; that is,

 negotiate cipher suites with NULL encryption modes. DTLS-SRTP

 be oﬀered for every media channel. WebRTC implementations

MUST NOT

 oﬀer SDP

 or select it if oﬀered. An SRTP Master Key Identiﬁer (MKI)

MUST

MUST

All media channels
Protocol (SRTCP). Media traﬃc
implementations
MUST
security descriptions
NOT

MUST NOT

 be used.

[RFC4568]

All data channels

MUST

 be secured via DTLS.

MUST

 support DTLS 1.2 with the

All implementations
TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 cipher suite and the
Earlier drafts of this speciﬁcation required DTLS 1.0 with the cipher suite
TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA, and at the time of this writing some
implementations do not support DTLS 1.2; endpoints which support only DTLS 1.2 might
encounter interoperability issues. The DTLS-SRTP protection proﬁle
 favor
SRTP_AES128_CM_HMAC_SHA1_80
cipher suites which support Forward Secrecy (FS) over non-FS cipher suites and
 favor
Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) over non-AEAD cipher suites. Note: the
IETF is in the process of standardizing DTLS 1.3

 be supported for SRTP. Implementations

.
P-256 curve [FIPS186]

.
[TLS-DTLS13]

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

Implementations
"no_renegotiation" alert if oﬀered.

MUST NOT

 implement DTLS renegotiation and

MUST

 reject it with a

Endpoints

MUST NOT

 implement TLS False Start

[RFC7918]

.

API Requirement:

The API

MUST

 generate a new authentication key pair for every new call by

default. This is intended to allow for unlinkability.

API Requirement:

The API

 provide a means to reuse a key pair for calls. This can be used
to enable key continuity-based authentication, and could be used to amortize key generation
costs.

MUST

API Requirement:

Unless the user speciﬁcally conﬁgures an external key pair, diﬀerent key

pairs

MUST

 be used for each origin. (This avoids creating a super-cookie.)

API Requirement:

When DTLS-SRTP is used, the API

MUST NOT

 permit the JS to obtain the

negotiated keying material. This requirement preserves the end-to-end security of the media.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

UI Requirements: A user-oriented client

MUST

 provide an "inspector" interface which allows

the user to determine the "security characteristics" of the media.

The following properties
requiring the user to ask for them:

SHOULD

 be displayed "up-front" in the browser chrome, i.e., without

•

MUST

A client
characteristics" for currently displayed audio and video stream(s).

 provide a user interface through which a user may determine the "security

•

MUST

A client
characteristics" for transmissions of their microphone audio and camera video.

 provide a user interface through which a user may determine the "security

•

If the far endpoint was directly veriﬁed, either via a third-party veriﬁable X.509
certiﬁcate or via a Web IdP mechanism (see Section 7), the "security characteristics"
include the veriﬁed information. X.509 identities and Web IdP identities have similar
semantics and should be displayed in a similar way.

MUST

The following properties are more likely to require some "drill-down" from the user:

•

The "security characteristics"
example, "AES-CBC").

MUST

 indicate the cryptographic algorithms in use (for

•

The "security characteristics"

MUST

 indicate whether FS is provided.

•

The "security characteristics"
veriﬁcation of the peer, such as a certiﬁcate ﬁngerprint or a Short Authentication String
(SAS). These are compared by the peers to authenticate one another.

 include some mechanism to allow an out-of-band

MUST

7.  Web-Based Peer Authentication

NOTE: The mechanism described in this section was designed relatively early in the RTCWEB
process. In retrospect, the WG was too optimistic about the enthusiasm for this kind of
mechanism. At the time of publication, it has not been widely adopted or implemented. It
appears in this document as a description of the state of the art as of this writing.

In a number of cases, it is desirable for the endpoint (i.e., the browser) to be able to directly
identify the endpoint on the other side without trusting the signaling service to which they are
connected. For instance, users may be making a call via a federated system where they wish to
get direct authentication of the other side. Alternately, they may be making a call on a site which
they minimally trust (such as a poker site) but to someone who has an identity on a site they do
trust (such as a social network).

Recently, a number of Web-based identity technologies (OAuth, Facebook Connect, etc.) have
been developed. While the details vary, what these technologies share is that they have a Web-
based (i.e., HTTP/HTTPS) IdP which attests to Alice's identity. For instance, if Alice has an account
at example.org, Alice could use the example.org IdP to prove to others that Alice is
alice@example.org. The development of these technologies allows us to separate calling from
identity provision: Alice could call you on a poker site but identify herself as alice@example.org.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

Whatever the underlying technology, the general principle is that the party which is being
authenticated is NOT the signaling site but rather the user (and their browser). Similarly, the
Relying Party is the browser and not the signaling site. Thus, the browser
 generate the
input to the IdP assertion process and display the results of the veriﬁcation process to the user in
a way which cannot be imitated by the calling site.

MUST

The mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not require the browser to implement any
particular identity protocol or to support any particular IdP. Instead, this document provides a
generic interface which any IdP can implement. Thus, new IdPs and protocols can be introduced
without change to either the browser or the calling service. This avoids the need to make a
commitment to any particular identity protocol, although browsers may opt to directly
implement some identity protocols in order to provide superior performance or UI properties.

7.1.  Trust Relationships: IdPs, APs, and RPs

Any federated identity protocol has three major participants:

Authenticating Party (AP):

The entity which is trying to establish its identity.

Identity Provider (IdP):

The entity which is vouching for the AP's identity.

Relying Party (RP):

The entity which is trying to verify the AP's identity.

The AP and the IdP have an account relationship of some kind: the AP registers with the IdP and
is able to subsequently authenticate directly to the IdP (e.g., with a password). This means that
the browser must somehow know which IdP(s) the user has an account relationship with. This
can either be something that the user conﬁgures into the browser or that is conﬁgured at the
calling site and then provided to the PeerConnection by the Web application at the calling site.
The use case for having this information conﬁgured into the browser is that the user may "log
into" the browser to bind it to some identity. This is becoming common in new browsers.
However, it should also be possible for the IdP information to simply be provided by the calling
application.

At a high level, there are two kinds of IdPs:

Authoritative:

IdPs which have veriﬁable control of some section of the identity space. For

instance, in the realm of email, the operator of "example.com" has complete control of the
namespace ending in "@example.com". Thus, "alice@example.com" is whoever the operator
says it is. Examples of systems with authoritative IdPs include DNSSEC, an identity system for
SIP (see
context of the Facebook system).

), and Facebook Connect (Facebook identities only make sense within the

[RFC8224]

Third-Party:

IdPs which don't have control of their section of the identity space but instead

verify users' identities via some unspeciﬁed mechanism and then attest to it. Because the IdP
doesn't actually control the namespace, RPs need to trust that the IdP is correctly verifying AP
identities, and there can potentially be multiple IdPs attesting to the same section of the

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

identity space. Probably the best-known example of a third-party IdP is SSL/TLS certiﬁcates,
where there are a large number of certiﬁcate authorities (CAs) all of whom can attest to any
domain name.

If an AP is authenticating via an authoritative IdP, then the RP does not need to explicitly
conﬁgure trust in the IdP at all. The identity mechanism can directly verify that the IdP indeed
made the relevant identity assertion (a function provided by the mechanisms in this document),
and any assertion it makes about an identity for which it is authoritative is directly veriﬁable.
Note that this does not mean that the IdP might not lie, but that is a trustworthiness judgement
that the user can make at the time they look at the identity.

By contrast, if an AP is authenticating via a third-party IdP, the RP needs to explicitly trust that
IdP (hence the need for an explicit trust anchor list in PKI-based SSL/TLS clients). The list of
trustable IdPs needs to be conﬁgured directly into the browser, either by the user or potentially
by the browser manufacturer. This is a signiﬁcant advantage of authoritative IdPs and implies
that if third-party IdPs are to be supported, the potential number needs to be fairly small.

7.2.  Overview of Operation

In order to provide security without trusting the calling site, the PeerConnection component of
the browser must interact directly with the IdP. The details of the mechanism are described in
the W3C API speciﬁcation, but the general idea is that the PeerConnection component downloads
JS from a speciﬁc location on the IdP dictated by the IdP domain name. That JS (the "IdP proxy")
runs in an isolated security context within the browser, and the PeerConnection talks to it via a
secure message passing channel.

Note that there are two logically separate functions here:

•

Identity assertion generation.

•

Identity assertion veriﬁcation.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

The same IdP JS "endpoint" is used for both functions, but of course a given IdP might behave
diﬀerently and load new JS to perform one function or the other.

     +--------------------------------------+
     | Browser                              |
     |                                      |
     | +----------------------------------+ |
     | | https://calling-site.example.com | |
     | |                                  | |
     | |        Calling JS Code           | |
     | |               ^                  | |
     | +---------------|------------------+ |
     |                 | API Calls          |
     |                 v                    |
     |          PeerConnection              |
     |                 ^                    |
     |                 | API Calls          |
     |     +-----------|-------------+      |   +---------------+
     |     |           v             |      |   |               |
     |     |       IdP Proxy         |<-------->|   Identity    |
     |     |                         |      |   |   Provider    |
     |     | https://idp.example.org |      |   |               |
     |     +-------------------------+      |   +---------------+
     |                                      |
     +--------------------------------------+

When the PeerConnection object wants to interact with the IdP, the sequence of events is as
follows:

1.

The browser (the PeerConnection component) instantiates an IdP proxy. This allows the IdP
to load whatever JS is necessary into the proxy. The resulting code runs in the IdP's security
context.

2.

The IdP registers an object with the browser that conforms to the API deﬁned in
api]

.

[webrtc-

3.

The browser invokes methods on the object registered by the IdP proxy to create or verify
identity assertions.

This approach allows us to decouple the browser from any particular IdP; the browser need only
know how to load the IdP's JavaScript -- the location of which is determined based on the IdP's
identity -- and to call the generic API for requesting and verifying identity assertions. The IdP
provides whatever logic is necessary to bridge the generic protocol to the IdP's speciﬁc
requirements. Thus, a single browser can support any number of identity protocols, including
being forward compatible with IdPs which did not exist at the time the browser was written.

7.3.  Items for Standardization

There are two parts to this work:

•

The precise information from the signaling message that must be cryptographically bound to
the user's identity and a mechanism for carrying assertions in JavaScript Session
Establishment Protocol (JSEP) messages. This is speciﬁed in Section 7.4.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

•

The interface to the IdP, which is deﬁned in the companion W3C WebRTC API speciﬁcation
[webrtc-api]

.

The WebRTC API speciﬁcation also deﬁnes JavaScript interfaces that the calling application can
use to specify which IdP to use. That API also provides access to the assertion-generation
capability and the status of the validation process.

7.4.  Binding Identity Assertions to JSEP Oﬀer/Answer Transactions

An identity assertion binds the user's identity (as asserted by the IdP) to the SDP oﬀer/answer
exchange and speciﬁcally to the media. In order to achieve this, the PeerConnection must
provide the DTLS-SRTP ﬁngerprint to be bound to the identity. This is provided as a JavaScript
object (also known as a dictionary or hash) with a single "ﬁngerprint" key, as shown below:

{
  "fingerprint":
    [
      { "algorithm": "sha-256",
        "digest": "4A:AD:B9:B1:3F:...:E5:7C:AB" },
      { "algorithm": "sha-1",
        "digest": "74:E9:76:C8:19:...:F4:45:6B" }
    ]
}

The "ﬁngerprint" value is an array of objects. Each object in the array contains "algorithm" and
"digest" values, which correspond directly to the algorithm and digest values in the "ﬁngerprint"
attribute of the SDP

.
[RFC8122]

This object is encoded in a
returned by the IdP, which is encoded in the "identity" attribute, is a JSON object that is encoded
as described in Section 7.4.1.

 string for passing to the IdP. The identity assertion

JSON [RFC8259]

This structure does not need to be interpreted by the IdP or the IdP proxy. It is consumed solely
by the RP's browser. The IdP merely treats it as an opaque value to be attested to. Thus, new
parameters can be added to the assertion without modifying the IdP.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

7.4.1.  Carrying Identity Assertions

Once an IdP has generated an assertion (see Section 7.6), it is attached to the SDP oﬀer/answer
message. This is done by adding a new "identity" attribute to the SDP. The sole contents of this
value is the identity assertion. The identity assertion produced by the IdP is encoded into a UTF-8
JSON text, then

 to produce this string. For example:

base64-encoded [RFC4648]

v=0
o=- 1181923068 1181923196 IN IP4 ua1.example.com
s=example1
c=IN IP4 ua1.example.com
a=fingerprint:sha-1 \
  4A:AD:B9:B1:3F:82:18:3B:54:02:12:DF:3E:5D:49:6B:19:E5:7C:AB
a=identity:\
  eyJpZHAiOnsiZG9tYWluIjoiZXhhbXBsZS5vcmciLCJwcm90b2NvbCI6ImJvZ3Vz\
  In0sImFzc2VydGlvbiI6IntcImlkZW50aXR5XCI6XCJib2JAZXhhbXBsZS5vcmdc\
  IixcImNvbnRlbnRzXCI6XCJhYmNkZWZnaGlqa2xtbm9wcXJzdHV2d3l6XCIsXCJz\
  aWduYXR1cmVcIjpcIjAxMDIwMzA0MDUwNlwifSJ9
a=...
t=0 0
m=audio 6056 RTP/SAVP 0
a=sendrecv
...

Note that long lines in the example are folded to meet the column width constraints
of this document; the backslash ("\") at the end of a line, the carriage return that
follows, and whitespace shall be ignored.

The "identity" attribute attests to all "ﬁngerprint" attributes in the session description. It is
therefore a session-level attribute.

Multiple "ﬁngerprint" values can be used to oﬀer alternative certiﬁcates for a peer. The "identity"
attribute
 include all "ﬁngerprint" values that are included in "ﬁngerprint" attributes of the
session description.

MUST

The RP browser
ﬁngerprints returned from the IdP when verifying an assertion.

MUST

 verify that the in-use certiﬁcate for a DTLS connection is in the set of

7.5.  Determining the IdP URI

In order to ensure that the IdP is under control of the domain owner rather than someone who
merely has an account on the domain owner's server (e.g., in shared hosting scenarios), the IdP
JavaScript is hosted at a deterministic location based on the IdP's domain name. Each IdP proxy
instance is associated with two values:

authority:

The

authority [RFC3986]

 at which the IdP's service is hosted.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

protocol: The speciﬁc IdP protocol which the IdP is using. This is a completely opaque IdP-

speciﬁc string, but allows an IdP to implement two protocols in parallel. This value may be the
empty string. If no value for protocol is provided, a value of "default" is used.

MUST

Each IdP
known URI [RFC8615]
components:

 serve its initial entry page (i.e., the one loaded by the IdP proxy) from a

well-

. The well-known URI for an IdP proxy is formed from the following URI

1.

2.

3.

The scheme, "https:". An IdP

MUST

 be loaded using

HTTPS [RFC2818]

.

authority [RFC3986]

The
number or userinfo sub-component. Both are removed when determining if an asserted
identity matches the name of the IdP.

. As noted above, the authority

 contain a non-default port

MAY

The path, starting with "/.well-known/idp-proxy/" and appended with the IdP protocol. Note
that the separator characters '/' (%2F) and '\' (%5C)
ﬁeld, lest an attacker be able to direct requests outside of the controlled "/.well-known/"
preﬁx. Query and fragment values

 be used by including '?' or '#' characters.

 be permitted in the protocol

MUST NOT

MAY

For example, for the IdP "identity.example.com" and the protocol "example", the URL would be:

https://identity.example.com/.well-known/idp-proxy/example

MAY

 redirect requests to this URL, but they

The IdP
the eﬀective origin of the IdP, but not the domain of the identities that the IdP is permitted to
assert and validate. I.e., the IdP is still regarded as authoritative for the original domain.

 retain the "https:" scheme. This changes

MUST

7.5.1.  Authenticating Party

How an AP determines the appropriate IdP domain is out of scope of this speciﬁcation. In
general, however, the AP has some actual account relationship with the IdP, as this identity is
what the IdP is attesting to. Thus, the AP somehow supplies the IdP information to the browser.
Some potential mechanisms include:

•

Provided by the user directly.

•

Selected from some set of IdPs known to the calling site (e.g., a button that shows
"Authenticate via Facebook Connect").

7.5.2.  Relying Party

Unlike the AP, the RP need not have any particular relationship with the IdP. Rather, it needs to
be able to process whatever assertion is provided by the AP. As the assertion contains the IdP's
identity in the "idp" ﬁeld of the JSON-encoded object (see Section 7.6), the URI can be constructed
directly from the assertion, and thus the RP can directly verify the technical validity of the
assertion with no user interaction. Authoritative assertions need only be veriﬁable. Third-party
assertions also

 be veriﬁed against local policy, as described in Section 8.1.

MUST

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

7.6.  Requesting Assertions

The input to the identity assertion generation process is the JSON-encoded object described in
Section 7.4 that contains the set of certiﬁcate ﬁngerprints the browser intends to use. This string
is treated as opaque from the perspective of the IdP.

The browser also identiﬁes the origin that the PeerConnection is run in, which allows the IdP to
make decisions based on who is requesting the assertion.

An application can optionally provide a user identiﬁer hint when specifying an IdP. This value is
a hint that the IdP can use to select amongst multiple identities, or to avoid providing assertions
for unwanted identities. The "username" is a string that has no meaning to any entity other than
the IdP; it can contain any data the IdP needs in order to correctly generate an assertion.

An identity assertion that is successfully provided by the IdP consists of the following
information:

idp:

The domain name of an IdP and the protocol string. This

MAY

 identify a diﬀerent IdP or

protocol from the one that generated the assertion.

assertion:

An opaque value containing the assertion itself. This is only interpretable by the

identiﬁed IdP or the IdP code running in the client.

Figure 5 shows an example assertion formatted as JSON. In this case, the message has
presumably been digitally signed/MACed in some way that the IdP can later verify it, but this is
an implementation detail and out of scope of this document.

{
  "idp":{
    "domain": "example.org",
    "protocol": "bogus"
  },
  "assertion": "{\"identity\":\"bob@example.org\",
                 \"contents\":\"abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwyz\",
                 \"signature\":\"010203040506\"}"
}

Figure 5: Example Assertion

For use in signaling, the assertion is serialized into JSON,
base64-encoded [RFC4648]
 ensure that any assertions they generate
the value of the "identity" attribute. IdPs
SHOULD
cannot be interpreted in a diﬀerent context. E.g., they should use a distinct format or have
separate cryptographic keys for assertion generation and other purposes. Line breaks are
inserted solely for readability.

, and used as

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

7.7.  Managing User Login

In order to generate an identity assertion, the IdP needs proof of the user's identity. It is common
cookies
practice to authenticate users (using passwords or multi-factor authentication), then use
[RFC6265] HTTP authentication [RFC7617]

 for subsequent exchanges.

 or

The IdP proxy is able to access cookies, HTTP authentication data, or other persistent session
data because it operates in the security context of the IdP origin. Therefore, if a user is logged in,
the IdP could have all the information needed to generate an assertion.

An IdP proxy is unable to generate an assertion if the user is not logged in, or the IdP wants to
interact with the user to acquire more information before generating the assertion. If the IdP
wants to interact with the user before generating an assertion, the IdP proxy can fail to generate
an assertion and instead indicate a URL where login should proceed.

The application can then load the provided URL to enable the user to enter credentials. The
communication between the application and the IdP is described in

.
[webrtc-api]

8.  Verifying Assertions

The input to identity validation is the assertion string taken from a decoded "identity" attribute.

The IdP proxy veriﬁes the assertion. Depending on the identity protocol, the proxy might contact
the IdP server or other servers. For instance, an OAuth-based protocol will likely require using
the IdP as an oracle, whereas with a signature-based scheme it might be able to verify the
assertion without contacting the IdP, provided that it has cached the relevant public key.

Regardless of the mechanism, if veriﬁcation succeeds, a successful response from the IdP proxy
consists of the following information:

identity:
8.1.

The identity of the AP from the IdP's perspective. Details of this are provided in Section

contents:

The original unmodiﬁed string provided by the AP as input to the assertion

generation process.

Figure 6 shows an example response, which is JSON-formatted.

{
  "identity": "bob@example.org",
  "contents": "{\"fingerprint\":[ ... ]}"
}

Figure 6: Example Veriﬁcation Result

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

8.1.  Identity Formats

The identity provided from the IdP to the RP browser
user's identity. This string is in the form "<user>@<domain>", where "user" consists of any
character, and domain is an internationalized domain name
U-labels.

 consist of a string representing the

 encoded as a sequence of

[RFC5890]

MUST

The PeerConnection API

MUST

 check this string as follows:

1.

2.

If the "domain" portion of the string is equal to the domain name of the IdP proxy, then the
assertion is valid, as the IdP is authoritative for this domain. Comparison of domain names is
done using the label equivalence rule deﬁned in

Section 2.3.2.4 of [RFC5890]

.

If the "domain" portion of the string is not equal to the domain name of the IdP proxy, then
the PeerConnection object

 reject the assertion unless both:

MUST

1.

the IdP domain is trusted as an acceptable third-party IdP; and

2.

local policy is conﬁgured to trust this IdP domain for the domain portion of the identity
string.

Any '@' or '%' characters in the "user" portion of the identity
"percent-encoding" rules deﬁned in
Section 2.1 of [RFC3986]
MUST NOT
"identity.example.com", the resulting string will be encoded as "user%
40133@identity.example.com".

 be percent-encoded. For example, with a "user" of "user@133" and a "domain" of

 be escaped according to the
MUST
. Characters other than '@' and '%'

Implementations are cautioned to take care when displaying user identities containing escaped
'@' characters. If such characters are unescaped prior to display, implementations
distinguish between the domain of the IdP proxy and any domain that might be implied by the
portion of the "<user>" portion that appears after the escaped "@" sign.

MUST

9.  Security Considerations

Much of the security analysis of RTCWEB is contained in
particular issues above. In order to avoid repetition, this section focuses on (a) residual threats
that are not addressed by this document and (b) threats produced by failure/misbehavior of one
of the components in the system.

 or in the discussion of the

[RFC8826]

9.1.  Communications Security

If HTTPS is not used to secure communications to the signaling server, and the identity
mechanism used in Section 7 is not used, then any on-path attacker can replace the DTLS-SRTP
ﬁngerprints in the handshake and thus substitute its own identity for that of either endpoint.

Even if HTTPS is used, the signaling server can potentially mount a man-in-the-middle attack
unless implementations have some mechanism for independently verifying keys. The UI
requirements in Section 6.5 are designed to provide such a mechanism for motivated/security

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

conscious users, but are not suitable for general use. The identity service mechanisms in Section
7 are more suitable for general use. Note, however, that a malicious signaling service can strip
oﬀ any such identity assertions, though it cannot forge new ones. Note that all of the third-party
security mechanisms available (whether X.509 certiﬁcates or a third-party IdP) rely on the
security of the third party -- this is of course also true of the user's connection to the Web site
itself. Users who wish to assure themselves of security against a malicious IdP can only do so by
verifying peer credentials directly, e.g., by checking the peer's ﬁngerprint against a value
delivered out of band.

MUST NOT

 be allowed to

In order to protect against malicious content JavaScript, that JavaScript
have direct access to -- or perform computations with -- DTLS keys. For instance, if content JS
were able to compute digital signatures, then it would be possible for content JS to get an identity
assertion for a browser's generated key and then use that assertion plus a signature by the key to
authenticate a call protected under an ephemeral Diﬃe-Hellman (DH) key controlled by the
content JS, thus violating the security guarantees otherwise provided by the IdP mechanism.
Note that it is not suﬃcient merely to deny the content JS direct access to the keys, as some have
suggested doing with the WebCrypto API
[webcrypto]
perform operations that would be valid for a DTLS endpoint. By far the safest approach is simply
to deny the ability to perform any operations that depend on secret information associated with
the key. Operations that depend on public information, such as exporting the public key, are of
course safe.

. The JS must also not be allowed to

9.2.  Privacy

The requirements in this document are intended to allow:

•

Users to participate in calls without revealing their location.

•

Potential callees to avoid revealing their location and even presence status prior to agreeing
to answer a call.

However, these privacy protections come at a performance cost in terms of using TURN relays
and, in the latter case, delaying ICE. Sites

 make users aware of these tradeoﬀs.

SHOULD

Note that the protections provided here assume a non-malicious calling service. As the calling
service always knows the user's status and (absent the use of a technology like Tor) their IP
address, they can violate the user's privacy at will. Users who wish privacy against the calling
sites they are using must use separate privacy-enhancing technologies such as Tor. Combined
WebRTC/Tor implementations
SHOULD
through Tor. Currently this will produce very suboptimal performance.

 arrange to route the media as well as the signaling

Additionally, any identiﬁer which persists across multiple calls is potentially a problem for
privacy, especially for anonymous calling services. Such services
use separate DTLS keys for each call and also to use TURN throughout the call. Otherwise, the
other side will learn linkable information that would allow them to correlate the browser across
multiple calls. Additionally, browsers
generation mode of

 implement the privacy-preserving CNAME

 instruct the browser to

[RFC7022]
.

SHOULD

SHOULD

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

9.3.  Denial of Service

The consent mechanisms described in this document are intended to mitigate denial-of-service
(DoS) attacks in which an attacker uses clients to send large amounts of traﬃc to a victim without
the consent of the victim. While these mechanisms are suﬃcient to protect victims who have not
implemented WebRTC at all, WebRTC implementations need to be more careful.

Consider the case of a call center which accepts calls via WebRTC. An attacker proxies the call
center's front-end and arranges for multiple clients to initiate calls to the call center. Note that
this requires user consent in many cases, but because the data channel does not need consent,
they can use that directly. Since ICE will complete, browsers can then be induced to send large
amounts of data to the victim call center if it supports the data channel at all. Preventing this
attack requires that automated WebRTC implementations implement sensible ﬂow control and
have the ability to triage out (i.e., stop responding to ICE probes on) calls which are behaving
badly, and especially to be prepared to remotely throttle the data channel in the absence of
plausible audio and video (which the attacker cannot control).

Another related attack is for the signaling service to swap the ICE candidates for the audio and
video streams, thus forcing a browser to send video to the sink that the other victim expects will
contain audio (perhaps it is only expecting audio!), potentially causing overload. Muxing
multiple media ﬂows over a single transport makes it harder to individually suppress a single
ﬂow by denying ICE keepalives. Either media-level (RTCP) mechanisms must be used or the
implementation must deny responses entirely, thus terminating the call.

Yet another attack, suggested by Magnus Westerlund, is for the attacker to cross-connect oﬀers
and answers as follows. It induces the victim to make a call and then uses its control of other
users' browsers to get them to attempt a call to someone. It then translates their oﬀers into
apparent answers to the victim, which looks like large-scale parallel forking. The victim still
responds to ICE responses, and now the browsers all try to send media to the victim.
Implementations can defend themselves from this attack by only responding to ICE Binding
Requests for a limited number of remote ufrags (this is the reason for the requirement that the JS
not be able to control the ufrag and password).
potential RTCP-based DoS attacks and countermeasures.

 documents a number of

[RFC8834], Section 13

Note that attacks based on confusing one end or the other about consent are possible even in the
face of the third-party identity mechanism as long as major parts of the signaling messages are
not signed. On the other hand, signing the entire message severely restricts the capabilities of the
calling application, so there are diﬃcult tradeoﬀs here.

9.4.  IdP Authentication Mechanism

This mechanism relies for its security on the IdP and on the PeerConnection correctly enforcing
the security invariants described above. At a high level, the IdP is attesting that the user
identiﬁed in the assertion wishes to be associated with the assertion. Thus, it must not be
possible for arbitrary third parties to get assertions tied to a user or to produce assertions that
RPs will accept.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

9.4.1.  PeerConnection Origin Check

Fundamentally, the IdP proxy is just a piece of HTML and JS loaded by the browser, so nothing
stops a Web attacker from creating their own IFRAME, loading the IdP proxy HTML/JS, and
requesting a signature over their own keys rather than those generated in the browser. However,
that proxy would be in the attacker's origin, not the IdP's origin. Only the browser itself can
instantiate a context that (a) is in the IdP's origin and (b) exposes the correct API surface. Thus,
the IdP proxy on the sender's side
issuing assertions.

 ensure that it is running in the IdP's origin prior to

MUST

Note that this check only asserts that the browser (or some other entity with access to the user's
authentication data) attests to the request and hence to the ﬁngerprint. It does not demonstrate
that the browser has access to the associated private key, and therefore an attacker can attach
their own identity to another party's keying material, thus making a call which comes from Alice
appear to come from the attacker. See

 for defenses against this form of attack.

[RFC8844]

9.4.2.  IdP Well-Known URI

As described in Section 7.5, the IdP proxy HTML/JS landing page is located at a well-known URI
based on the IdP's domain name. This requirement prevents an attacker who can write some
resources at the IdP (e.g., on one's Facebook wall) from being able to impersonate the IdP.

9.4.3.  Privacy of IdP-Generated Identities and the Hosting Site

Depending on the structure of the IdP's assertions, the calling site may learn the user's identity
from the perspective of the IdP. In many cases, this is not an issue because the user is
authenticating to the site via the IdP in any case -- for instance, when the user has logged in with
Facebook Connect and is then authenticating their call with a Facebook identity. However, in
other cases, the user may not have already revealed their identity to the site. In general, IdPs
 either verify that the user is willing to have their identity revealed to the site (e.g.,
SHOULD
through the usual IdP permissions dialog) or arrange that the identity information is only
available to known RPs (e.g., social graph adjacencies) but not to the calling site. The "domain"
ﬁeld of the assertion request can be used to check that the user has agreed to disclose their
identity to the calling site; because it is supplied by the PeerConnection it can be trusted to be
correct.

9.4.4.  Security of Third-Party IdPs

As discussed above, each third-party IdP represents a new universal trust point and therefore the
number of these IdPs needs to be quite limited. Most IdPs, even those which issue unqualiﬁed
identities such as Facebook, can be recast as authoritative IdPs (e.g., 123456@facebook.com).
However, in such cases, the user interface implications are not entirely desirable. One
intermediate approach is to have special (potentially user conﬁgurable) UI for large authoritative
IdPs, thus allowing the user to instantly grasp that the call is being authenticated by Facebook,
Google, etc.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

9.4.4.1.  Confusable Characters

Because a broad range of characters are permitted in identity strings, it may be possible for
attackers to craft identities which are confusable with other identities (see
this topic). This is a problem with any identiﬁer space of this type (e.g., email addresses). Those
minting identiﬁers should avoid mixed scripts and similar confusable characters. Those
presenting these identiﬁers to a user should consider highlighting cases of mixed script usage
(see

). Other best practices are still in development.

[RFC5890], Section 4.4

[RFC6943]

 for more on

9.4.5.  Web Security Feature Interactions

A number of optional Web security features have the potential to cause issues for this
mechanism, as discussed below.

9.4.5.1.  Popup Blocking

When popup blocking is in use, the IdP proxy is unable to generate popup windows, dialogs, or
any other form of user interactions. This prevents the IdP proxy from being used to circumvent
user interaction. The "LOGINNEEDED" message allows the IdP proxy to inform the calling site of
a need for user login, providing the information necessary to satisfy this requirement without
resorting to direct user interaction from the IdP proxy itself.

9.4.5.2.  Third Party Cookies

Some browsers allow users to block third party cookies (cookies associated with origins other
than the top-level page) for privacy reasons. Any IdP which uses cookies to persist logins will be
broken by third-party cookie blocking. One option is to accept this as a limitation; another is to
have the PeerConnection object disable third-party cookie blocking for the IdP proxy.

10.  IANA Considerations

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes the "identity" SDP attribute per the procedures of
[RFC4566]

. The required information for the registration is included here:

Section 8.2.4 of

Contact Name:

IESG (iesg@ietf.org)

Attribute Name:

identity

Long Form:

identity

Type of Attribute:

session

Charset Considerations:

This attribute is not subject to the charset attribute.

Purpose:

This attribute carries an identity assertion, binding an identity to the transport-level

security session.

Appropriate Values:

See Section 5 of RFC 8827.

Mux Category:

NORMAL

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

This section registers the "idp-proxy" well-known URI from

[RFC8615]

.

URI suﬃx:

idp-proxy

Change controller:

IETF

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[FIPS186]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2818]

[RFC3264]

[RFC3711]

[RFC3986]

[RFC4566]

[RFC4568]

[RFC4648]

[RFC5763]

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Digital Signature
Standard (DSS)" NIST PUB 186-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4
, July 2013,
<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4>

.

,

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Rescorla, E. "HTTP Over TLS" RFC 2818 DOI 10.17487/RFC2818
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2818>

.

,

,

, May 2000,

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

,

,

.

,

Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K. Norrman "The Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, March

,
.

,

,

Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

, January 2005,

,

,

,

.

,

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Andreasen, F., Baugher, M., and D. Wing "Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Security Descriptions for Media Streams" RFC 4568 DOI 10.17487/RFC4568
2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4568>

,

,

.

,

, July

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

,
Fischl, J., Tschofenig, H., and E. Rescorla "Framework for Establishing a Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) Security Context Using Datagram Transport
,
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 5763 DOI 10.17487/RFC5763
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5763>

, May 2010,

<https://

,

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

[RFC5764]

[RFC5890]

[RFC6347]

[RFC6454]

[RFC7022]

[RFC7675]

[RFC7918]

[RFC8122]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8261]

[RFC8445]

McGrew, D. and E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)"
RFC 5764 DOI 10.17487/RFC5764
rfc5764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2010,

,
.

,

,

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Deﬁnitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

,

,

.

,

,
Rescorla, E. and N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
, January 2012,
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc6347>

,
.

,

,
Barth, A. "The Web Origin Concept" RFC 6454 DOI 10.17487/RFC6454
December 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6454>

,

.

,

Begen, A., Perkins, C., Wing, D., and E. Rescorla "Guidelines for Choosing RTP
Control Protocol (RTCP) Canonical Names (CNAMEs)" RFC 7022 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7022

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7022>

, September 2013,

,

,

.

,

Perumal, M., Wing, D., Ravindranath, R., Reddy, T., and M. Thomson "Session
Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) Usage for Consent Freshness" RFC 7675 DOI
10.17487/RFC7675

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7675>

, October 2015,

,

,

Langley, A., Modadugu, N., and B. Moeller "Transport Layer Security (TLS) False
Start" RFC 7918 DOI 10.17487/RFC7918
editor.org/info/rfc7918>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2016,

,

,

.

,

Lennox, J. and C. Holmberg "Connection-Oriented Media Transport over the
Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol in the Session Description Protocol
(SDP)" RFC 8122 DOI 10.17487/RFC8122
editor.org/info/rfc8122>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Tuexen, M., Stewart, R., Jesup, R., and S. Loreto "Datagram Transport Layer
Security (DTLS) Encapsulation of SCTP Packets" RFC 8261 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8261

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8261>

, November 2017,

,

.

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

[RFC8446]

[RFC8615]

[RFC8825]

[RFC8826]

[RFC8829]

[RFC8834]

[RFC8844]

[webcrypto]

[webrtc-api]

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Nottingham, M. "Well-Known Uniform Resource Identiﬁers (URIs)" RFC 8615
DOI 10.17487/RFC8615
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8615>

, May 2019,

,

,

,

,

Alvestrand, H. "Overview: Real-Time Protocols for Browser-Based Applications"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 8825 DOI 10.17487/RFC8825
, January 2021,
rfc8825>

,
.

Rescorla, E. "Security Considerations for WebRTC" RFC 8826 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8826

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8826>

, January 2021,

,

,

,

.

Uberti, J., Jennings, C., and E. Rescorla, Ed. "JavaScript Session Establishment
Protocol (JSEP)" RFC 8829 DOI 10.17487/RFC8829
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8829>

, January 2021,

<https://

,

,

.

,
Perkins, C., Westerlund, M., and J. Ott "Media Transport and Use of RTP in
WebRTC" RFC 8834 DOI 10.17487/RFC8834
editor.org/info/rfc8834>

, January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

Thomson, M. and E. Rescorla "Unknown Key-Share Attacks on Uses of TLS with
,
the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8844 DOI 10.17487/RFC8844
January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8844>

,

,

.

,

Watson, M. "Web Cryptography API" W3C Recommendation
<https://www.w3.org/TR/2017/REC-WebCryptoAPI-20170126/>

,

,

, 26 January 2017,
.

Jennings, C., Boström, H., and J-I. Bruaroey "WebRTC 1.0: Real-time
Communication Between Browsers" W3C Proposed Recommendation <https://
www.w3.org/TR/webrtc/>

,

,

.

,

11.2.  Informative References

[fetch]

[RFC3261]

[RFC5705]

[RFC6120]

[RFC6265]

van Kesteren, A. "Fetch" <https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/>

,

,

.

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R.,
Handley, M., and E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
10.17487/RFC3261

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
, June 2002,

,
.

,

,

Rescorla, E. "Keying Material Exporters for Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
,
5705 DOI 10.17487/RFC5705
rfc5705>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2010,

.

,

,

Saint-Andre, P. "Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): Core" RFC
,
6120 DOI 10.17487/RFC6120
rfc6120>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

.

,

Barth, A. "HTTP State Management Mechanism" RFC 6265 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6265

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6265>

,
, April 2011,

,

,

.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8827

WebRTC Sec. Arch.

January 2021

[RFC6455]

[RFC6943]

[RFC7617]

[RFC8224]

Fette, I. and A. Melnikov "The WebSocket Protocol" RFC 6455 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6455

,
, December 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6455>

,

.

,

Thaler, D., Ed. "Issues in Identiﬁer Comparison for Security Purposes" RFC
,
6943 DOI 10.17487/RFC6943
,
rfc6943>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2013,

,

.

Reschke, J. "The 'Basic' HTTP Authentication Scheme" RFC 7617 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7617

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7617>

, September 2015,

,

.

,

,

Peterson, J., Jennings, C., Rescorla, E., and C. Wendt "Authenticated Identity
Management in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 8224 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8224

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8224>

, February 2018,

,

,

,

.

[RFC8828]

Uberti, J. and G. Shieh "WebRTC IP Address Handling Requirements" RFC 8828
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8828>
DOI 10.17487/RFC8828
, January 2021,
.

,

[TLS-DTLS13]

Rescorla, E., Tschofenig, H., and N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
ietf-tls-dtls13-39
dtls13-39>

,
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-tls-

, 2 November 2020,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

,

Bernard Aboba Harald Alvestrand Richard Barnes Dan Druta Cullen Jennings Hadriel Kaplan
Matthew Kaufman Jim McEachern Martin Thomson Magnus Westerlund Matthew Kaufman
,
provided the UI material in Section 6.5.
5.1.

 provided the initial version of Section

Christer Holmberg

,
,

.

,

,

,

,

,

Author's Address

Eric Rescorla
Mozilla
Email:

 ekr@rtfm.com

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 35

