Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8833
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
M. Thomson
Mozilla

RFC 8833
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) for
WebRTC

Abstract

This document speciﬁes two Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) labels for use with
Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC). The "webrtc" label identiﬁes regular WebRTC: a DTLS
session that is used to establish keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) or to
establish data channels using the Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) over DTLS. The
"c-webrtc" label describes the same protocol, but the peers also agree to maintain the
conﬁdentiality of the media by not sharing it with other applications.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8833

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Thomson

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8833

ALPN for WebRTC

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions

2.  ALPN Labels for WebRTC

3.  Media Conﬁdentiality

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) [RFC8825]
(DTLS) [RFC6347]

 to secure all peer-to-peer communications.

 uses

Datagram Transport Layer Security

Identifying WebRTC protocol usage with
[RFC7301]
other DTLS uses.

 enables an endpoint to positively identify WebRTC uses and distinguish them from

Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN)

Diﬀerent WebRTC uses can be advertised and behavior can be constrained to what is appropriate
to a given use. In particular, this allows for the identiﬁcation of sessions that require
conﬁdentiality protection from the application that manages the signaling for the session.

1.1.  Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Thomson

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8833

ALPN for WebRTC

January 2021

2.  ALPN Labels for WebRTC

The following identiﬁers are deﬁned for use in ALPN:

webrtc:

The DTLS session is used to establish keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol
. The DTLS record layer is used for

[RFC5764]

(SRTP) -- known as DTLS-SRTP -- as described in
WebRTC data channels [RFC8831]

.

c-webrtc:

The DTLS session is used for conﬁdential WebRTC, where peers agree to maintain the
conﬁdentiality of the media, as described in Section 3. The conﬁdentiality protections ensure
that media is protected from other applications, but the conﬁdentiality protections do not
extend to messages on data channels.

Both identiﬁers describe the same basic protocol: a DTLS session that is used to provide keys for
an SRTP session in combination with WebRTC data channels. Either SRTP or data channels could
be absent. The data channels send the
over the DTLS record layer, which can be multiplexed with SRTP on the same UDP ﬂow. WebRTC
 to establish UDP ﬂow,
requires the use of
but this is not covered by the identiﬁer.

Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) [RFC4960]

Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) [RFC8445]

A more thorough deﬁnition of what WebRTC entails is included in

.
[RFC8835]

There is no functional diﬀerence between the identiﬁers except that an endpoint negotiating c-
webrtc makes a promise to preserve the conﬁdentiality of the media it receives.

A peer that is not aware of whether it needs to request conﬁdentiality can use either identiﬁer. A
peer in the client role
 oﬀer both identiﬁers if it is not aware of a need for conﬁdentiality. A
peer in the server role

 select webrtc if it does not prefer either.

SHOULD

MUST

An endpoint that requires media conﬁdentiality might negotiate a session with a peer that does
 abort a session if it requires conﬁdentiality but
not support this speciﬁcation. An endpoint
does not successfully negotiate c-webrtc. A peer that is willing to accept webrtc
 assume
SHOULD
that a peer that does not support this speciﬁcation has negotiated webrtc unless signaling
provides other information; however, a peer
negotiated unless explicitly negotiated.

 assume that c-webrtc has been

MUST NOT

MUST

3.  Media Conﬁdentiality

[RFC8827]

Private communications in WebRTC depend on separating control (i.e., signaling) capabilities and
access to media
conﬁdential, where the ends in question are user agents (or browsers) and not the signaling
application. This allows an application to manage signaling for a session without having access to
the media that is exchanged in the session.

. In this way, an application can establish a session that is end-to-end

Thomson

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8833

ALPN for WebRTC

January 2021

Without some form of indication that is securely bound to the session, a WebRTC endpoint is
unable to properly distinguish between a session that requires this conﬁdentiality protection and
one that does not. The ALPN identiﬁer provides that signal.

A browser is required to enforce this conﬁdentiality protection using isolation controls similar to
those used in content cross-origin protections (see the "Origin" section of
protections ensure that media is protected from applications, which are not able to read or
modify the contents of a protected ﬂow of media. Media that is produced from a session using
the c-webrtc identiﬁer

 only be displayed to users.

[HTML5]

). These

MUST

The promise to apply conﬁdentiality protections do not apply to data that is sent using data
channels. Conﬁdential data depends on having both data sources and consumers that are
exclusively browser or user based. No mechanisms currently exist to take advantage of data
conﬁdentiality, though some use cases suggest that this could be useful, for example, conﬁdential
peer-to-peer ﬁle transfer. Alternative labels might be provided in the future to support these use
cases.

This mechanism explicitly does not deﬁne a speciﬁc authentication method; a WebRTC endpoint
that accepts a session with this ALPN identiﬁer
identity is attributed to a peer.

 respect conﬁdentiality no matter what

MUST

RTP middleboxes and entities that forward media or data cannot promise to maintain
conﬁdentiality. Any entity that forwards content, or records content for later access by entities
other than the authenticated peer,
identiﬁer.

 oﬀer or accept a session with the c-webrtc

MUST NOT

4.  Security Considerations

Conﬁdential communications depend on more than just an agreement from browsers.

Information is not conﬁdential if it is displayed to others than for whom it is intended.
authentication [RFC8827]

Peer
 is necessary to ensure that data is only sent to the intended peer.

This is not a digital rights management mechanism. A user is not prevented from using other
mechanisms to record or forward media. This means that (for example) screen-recording
devices, tape recorders, portable cameras, or a cunning arrangement of mirrors could variously
be used to record or redistribute media once delivered. Similarly, if media is visible or audible
(or otherwise accessible) to others in the vicinity, there are no technical measures that protect
the conﬁdentiality of that media.

The only guarantee provided by this mechanism and the browser that implements it is that the
media was delivered to the user that was authenticated. Individual users will still need to make a
judgment about how their peer intends to respect the conﬁdentiality of any information
provided.

Thomson

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8833

ALPN for WebRTC

January 2021

On a shared computing platform like a browser, other entities with access to that platform (i.e.,
web applications) might be able to access information that would compromise the conﬁdentiality
of communications. Implementations
during conﬁdential communications sessions.

 choose to limit concurrent access to input devices

MAY

For instance, another application that is able to access a microphone might be able to sample
conﬁdential audio that is playing through speakers. This is true even if acoustic echo
cancellation, which attempts to prevent this from happening, is used. Similarly, an application
with access to a video camera might be able to use reﬂections to obtain all or part of a
conﬁdential video stream.

5.  IANA Considerations

The following two entries have been added to the "TLS Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation
(ALPN) Protocol IDs" registry established by

[RFC7301]
:

webrtc:

The webrtc label identiﬁes mixed media and data communications using SRTP and data
channels:

Protocol:

WebRTC Media and Data

Identiﬁcation Sequence:

0x77 0x65 0x62 0x72 0x74 0x63 ("webrtc")

Speciﬁcation:

RFC 8833 (this document)

c-webrtc:

The c-webrtc label identiﬁes WebRTC with a promise to protect media conﬁdentiality:

Protocol:

Conﬁdential WebRTC Media and Data

Identiﬁcation Sequence:

0x63 0x2d 0x77 0x65 0x62 0x72 0x74 0x63 ("c-webrtc")

Speciﬁcation:

RFC 8833 (this document)

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5764]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

McGrew, D. and E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)"
RFC 5764 DOI 10.17487/RFC5764
rfc5764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2010,

,
.

,

,

Thomson

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8833

ALPN for WebRTC

January 2021

[RFC6347]

[RFC7301]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8827]

[RFC8831]

Rescorla, E. and N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
,
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, January 2012,
rfc6347>

,
.

,

Friedl, S., Popov, A., Langley, A., and E. Stephan "Transport Layer Security (TLS)
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension" RFC 7301 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7301

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7301>

, July 2014,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. "WebRTC Security Architecture" RFC 8827 DOI 10.17487/RFC8827
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8827>

,

,

,

,
Jesup, R., Loreto, S., and M. Tüxen "WebRTC Data Channels" RFC 8831 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8831>
10.17487/RFC8831

, January 2021,

,

,

6.2.  Informative References

[HTML5]

[RFC4960]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8825]

[RFC8835]

WHATWG "HTML - Living Standard" Section 7.5
html.spec.whatwg.org/#origin>

,

,

.

, January 2021,

<https://

Stewart, R., Ed. "Stream Control Transmission Protocol" RFC 4960 DOI
10.17487/RFC4960

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4960>

, September 2007,

,

,

.

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

,

,
Alvestrand, H. "Overview: Real-Time Protocols for Browser-Based Applications"
, January 2021,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 8825 DOI 10.17487/RFC8825
rfc8825>

,
.

,
Alvestrand, H. "Transports for WebRTC" RFC 8835 DOI 10.17487/RFC8835
January 2021,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8835>

.

,

,

,

Author's Address

Martin Thomson
Mozilla
Email:

 martin.thomson@gmail.com

Thomson

Standards Track

Page 6

