Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8840
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
E. Ivov
Jitsi

T. Stach
Una�liated

E. Marocco
Telecom Italia

C. Holmberg
Ericsson

RFC 8840
A Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Usage for
Incremental Provisioning of Candidates for the
Interactive Connectivity Establishment (Trickle ICE)

Abstract

The Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) protocol describes a Network Address
Translator (NAT) traversal mechanism for UDP-based multimedia sessions established with the
Oﬀer/Answer model. The ICE extension for Incremental Provisioning of Candidates (Trickle ICE)
deﬁnes a mechanism that allows ICE Agents to shorten session establishment delays by making
the candidate gathering and connectivity checking phases of ICE non-blocking and by executing
them in parallel.

This document deﬁnes usage semantics for Trickle ICE with the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP).
The document also deﬁnes a new SIP Info Package to support this usage together with the
corresponding media type. Additionally, a new Session Description Protocol (SDP) "end-of-
candidates" attribute and a new SIP option tag "trickle-ice" are deﬁned.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8840

.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Protocol Overview

3.1.  Discovery Issues

3.2.  Relationship with the Oﬀer/Answer Model

4.  Incremental Signaling of ICE Candidates

4.1.  Initial Oﬀer/Answer Exchange

4.1.1.  Sending the Initial Oﬀer

4.1.2.  Receiving the Initial Oﬀer

4.1.3.  Sending the Initial Answer

4.1.4.  Receiving the Initial Answer

4.2.  Subsequent Oﬀer/Answer Exchanges

4.3.  Establishing the Dialog

4.3.1.  Establishing Dialog State through Reliable Oﬀer/Answer Delivery

4.3.2.  Establishing Dialog State through Unreliable Oﬀer/Answer Delivery

4.3.3.  Initiating Trickle ICE without an SDP Answer

4.4.  Delivering Candidates in INFO Requests

5.  Initial Discovery of Trickle ICE Support

5.1.  Provisioning Support for Trickle ICE

5.2.  Trickle ICE Discovery with Globally Routable User Agent URIs (GRUUs)

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

5.3.  Fall Back to Half Trickle

6.  Considerations for RTP and RTCP Multiplexing

7.  Considerations for Media Multiplexing

8.  SDP "end-of-candidates" Attribute

8.1.  Deﬁnition

8.2.  Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

9.  Content Type "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag"

9.1.  Overall Description

9.2.  Grammar

10. Info Package

10.1.  Rationale -- Why INFO?

10.2.  Overall Description

10.3.  Applicability

10.4.  Info Package Name

10.5.  Info Package Parameters

10.6.  SIP Option Tags

10.7.  INFO Request Body Parts

10.8.  Info Package Usage Restrictions

10.9.  Rate of INFO Requests

10.10. Info Package Security Considerations

11. Deployment Considerations

12. IANA Considerations

12.1.  SDP "end-of-candidates" Attribute

12.2.  Media Type "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag"

12.3.  SIP Info Package "trickle-ice"

12.4.  SIP Option Tag "trickle-ice"

13. Security Considerations

14. References

14.1.  Normative References

14.2.  Informative References

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) protocol
Network Address Translator (NAT) traversal that consists of three main phases.

[RFC8445]

 describes a mechanism for

During the ﬁrst phase, an agent gathers a set of candidate transport addresses (source IP, port,
and transport protocol). This is followed by a second phase where these candidates are sent to a
remote agent within the Session Description Protocol (SDP) body of a SIP message. At the remote
agent, the gathering procedure is repeated and candidates are sent to the ﬁrst agent. Once the
candidate information is available, a third phase starts in parallel where connectivity between
all candidates in both sets is checked (connectivity checks). Once these phases have been
completed, and only then, both agents can begin communication.

[RFC8445]

, the three phases above happen consecutively, in a blocking way, which
According to
can introduce undesirable setup delay during session establishment. The Trickle ICE extension
 deﬁnes generic semantics required for these ICE phases to happen in a parallel, non-
[RFC8838]
blocking way and hence speeds up session establishment.

. It describes how ICE candidates are to be exchanged incrementally using SIP INFO

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a usage of Trickle ICE with the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
[RFC3261]
requests
 are to
be used by SIP User Agents (UAs) depending on their expectations for support of Trickle ICE by a
remote agent.

 and how the Half Trickle and Full Trickle modes deﬁned in

[RFC6086]

[RFC8838]

This document deﬁnes a new Info Package as speciﬁed in
together with the corresponding media type, SDP attribute, and SIP option tag.

[RFC6086]

 for use with Trickle ICE

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This speciﬁcation makes use of terminology deﬁned by the ICE protocol in
Trickle ICE extension in
from both documents.

[RFC8838]

. It is assumed that the reader is familiar with the terminology

[RFC8445]

 and by its

[RFC8445]
protocol

 also describes how ICE makes use of the Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN)

[RFC5389]

 and its extension Traversal Using Relays around NAT (TURN)

.
[RFC5766]

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

3.  Protocol Overview

When using ICE for SIP according to
Oﬀer/Answer as per
. This speciﬁcation deﬁnes an additional mechanism where
candidates can be exchanged using SIP INFO messages and a newly deﬁned Info Package
[RFC6086]
negotiation and/or after the completion of the Oﬀer/Answer negotiation.

. This also allows ICE candidates to be sent in parallel to an ongoing Oﬀer/Answer

, the ICE candidates are exchanged solely via SDP

[RFC3264]

[RFC8839]

Typically, in cases where Trickle ICE is fully supported, the Oﬀerer sends an INVITE request
containing a subset of candidates. Once an early dialog is established, the Oﬀerer can continue
sending candidates in INFO requests within that dialog.

Similarly, an Answerer can send ICE candidates using INFO requests within the dialog
established by its 18x provisional response. Figure 1 shows such a sample exchange:

   STUN/TURN                                                STUN/TURN
    Servers          Alice                      Bob          Servers
       |               |                         |                |
       |  STUN Bi.Req. |     INVITE (Offer)      |                |
       |<--------------|------------------------>|                |
       |               |      183 (Answer)       | TURN Alloc Req |
       | STUN Bi.Resp. |<------------------------|--------------->|
       |-------------->|  INFO/OK (SRFLX Cand.)  |                |
       |               |------------------------>| TURN Alloc Resp|
       |               |  INFO/OK (Relay Cand.)  |<---------------|
       |               |<------------------------|                |
       |               |                         |                |
       |               |  More Cands & ConnChecks|                |
       |               |<=======================>|                |
       |               |                         |                |
       |               |          200 OK         |                |
       |               |<------------------------|                |
       |               |            ACK          |                |
       |               |------------------------>|                |
       |               |                         |                |
       |               |<===== MEDIA FLOWS =====>|                |
       |               |                         |                |

       Note: "SRFLX" denotes server-reflexive candidates

Figure 1: Sample Trickle ICE Scenario with SIP

3.1.  Discovery Issues

In order to beneﬁt from Trickle ICE's full potential and reduce session establishment latency to a
minimum, Trickle ICE Agents need to generate SDP Oﬀers and Answers that contain incomplete
and potentially empty sets of candidates. Such Oﬀers and Answers can only be handled
meaningfully by agents that actually support incremental candidate provisioning, which implies
the need to conﬁrm such support before using it.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

Contrary to other protocols, where "in advance" capability discovery is widely implemented, the
mechanisms that allow this for SIP (i.e., a combination of UA capabilities
 and Globally
Routable User Agent URIs (GRUUs)
presents an issue for Trickle ICE implementations as SIP UAs do not have an obvious means of
verifying that their peer will support incremental candidate provisioning.

) have only seen low levels of adoption. This

[RFC3840]

[RFC5627]

The Half Trickle mode of operation deﬁned in the Trickle ICE speciﬁcation
one way around this, by requiring the ﬁrst Oﬀer to contain a complete set of local ICE candidates
and using only incremental provisioning of remote candidates for the rest of the session.

[RFC8838]

 provides

While using Half Trickle does provide a working solution, it also comes at the price of increased
latency. Therefore, Section 5 makes several alternative suggestions that enable SIP UAs to engage
in Full Trickle right from their ﬁrst Oﬀer: Section 5.1 discusses the use of online provisioning as a
means of allowing the use of Trickle ICE for all endpoints in controlled environments. Section 5.2
describes anticipatory discovery for implementations that actually do support GRUU and UA
capabilities, and Section 5.3 discusses the implementation and use of Half Trickle by SIP UAs
where none of the above are an option.

3.2.  Relationship with the Oﬀer/Answer Model

From the perspective of SIP middleboxes and proxies, the Oﬀer/Answer exchange for Trickle ICE
looks partly similar to the Oﬀer/Answer exchange for regular ICE for SIP
. However, in
order to have the full picture of the candidate exchange, the newly introduced INFO messages
need to be considered as well.

[RFC8839]

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

+-------------------------------+  +-------------------------------+
|   Alice      +--------------+ |  | +--------------+       Bob    |
|              | Offer/Answer | |  | | Offer/Answer |              |
| +--------+   |    Module    | |  | |    Module    |   +--------+ |
| |  ICE   |   +--------------+ |  | +--------------+   |  ICE   | |
| | Module |         |          |  |        |           | Module | |
| +--------+         |          |  |        |           +--------+ |
+-------------------------------+  +-------------------------------+
      |              |                      |                |
      |              |    INVITE (Offer)    |                |
      |              |--------------------->|                |
      |              |     183 (Answer)     |                |
      |              |<---------------------|                |
      |              |                      |                |
      |                                                      |
      |             SIP INFO (more candidates)               |
      |----------------------------------------------------->|
      |             SIP INFO (more candidates)               |
      |<-----------------------------------------------------|
      |                                                      |
      |          STUN Binding Requests/Responses             |
      |----------------------------------------------------->|
      |          STUN Binding Requests/Responses             |
      |<-----------------------------------------------------|
      |                                                      |

Figure 2: Distinguishing between Trickle ICE and Traditional Signaling

From an architectural viewpoint, as displayed in Figure 2, exchanging candidates through SIP
INFO requests could be represented as signaling between ICE modules and not between Oﬀer/
Answer modules of SIP UAs. Then, such INFO requests do not impact the state of the Oﬀer/
Answer transaction other than providing additional candidates. Consequently, INFO requests are
not considered Oﬀers or Answers. Nevertheless, candidates that have been exchanged using
INFO requests
"o=" line of that subsequent Oﬀer needs to be incremented by 1 per the rules in

 be included in subsequent Oﬀers or Answers. The version number in the

[RFC3264]

SHALL

.

4.  Incremental Signaling of ICE Candidates

Trickle ICE Agents will exchange ICE descriptions compliant to
 via Oﬀer/Answer
procedures and/or INFO request bodies. This requires the following SIP-speciﬁc extensions:

[RFC8838]

1.

2.

3.

Trickle ICE Agents
"trickle-ice" in a SIP Supported: header ﬁeld within all SIP INVITE requests and responses.

 indicate support for Trickle ICE by including the SIP option-tag

MUST

Trickle ICE Agents
within all SDP Oﬀers and Answers in accordance to

MUST

[RFC8838]

.

 indicate support for Trickle ICE by including the ice-option "trickle"

Trickle ICE Agents
set of candidates, in their initial Oﬀer or Answer. If the complete candidate set is already
included in the initial Oﬀer, it is called Half Trickle.

 include any number of ICE candidates, i.e., from zero to the complete

MAY

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

4.

5.

MAY

 exchange additional ICE candidates using INFO requests within an

Trickle ICE Agents
existing INVITE dialog usage (including an early dialog) as speciﬁed in
requests carry an Info-Package: trickle-ice. Trickle ICE Agents
INFO requests within that same dialog usage, containing additional candidates and/or an
indication that trickling of such candidates has ended.

. The INFO
 be prepared to receive

[RFC6086]

MUST

Trickle ICE Agents
Answer provided that an invite dialog usage is established at both Trickle ICE Agents. Note
that in case of forking, multiple early dialogs may exist.

 exchange additional ICE candidates before the Answerer has sent the

MAY

The following sections provide further details on how Trickle ICE Agents perform the initial
Oﬀer/Answer exchange (Section 4.1), perform subsequent Oﬀer/Answer exchanges (Section 4.2),
and establish the INVITE dialog usage (Section 4.3) such that they can incrementally trickle
candidates (Section 4.4).

4.1.  Initial Oﬀer/Answer Exchange

4.1.1.  Sending the Initial Oﬀer

If the Oﬀerer includes candidates in its initial Oﬀer, it
in

[RFC8839]

.

MUST

 encode these candidates as speciﬁed

MUST

If the Oﬀerer wants to send its initial Oﬀer before knowing any candidate for one or more media
descriptions, it
Oﬀerer does not want to include the host IP address in the corresponding "c="line, e.g., due to
privacy reasons, it
address 0.0.0.0 or to the IPv6 equivalent ::.

 set the port to the default value '9' for these media descriptions. If the

 include a default address in the "c="line, which is set to the IPv4

SHOULD

In this case, the Oﬀerer obviously cannot know the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) transport
address; thus, it
mismatch (see

 include the "rtcp" attribute
) for the RTCP transport address.

. This avoids potential ICE

[RFC3605]

[RFC8839]

MUST NOT

If the Oﬀerer wants to use RTCP multiplexing
[RFC8858]

, it still will include the "rtcp-mux" and/or "rctp-mux-only" attribute in the initial Oﬀer.

[RFC5761]

 and/or exclusive RTCP multiplexing

MUST

MUST

 include the "ice-options:trickle" attribute in accordance to

In any case, the Oﬀerer
[RFC8838]
 and
"mid" attribute identiﬁes the "m=" line to which a candidate belongs and helps in case of multiple
"m=" lines, when candidate gathering could occur in an order diﬀerent from the order of the
"m=" lines.

 include in each "m=" line a "mid" attribute in accordance to

[RFC5888]

. The

4.1.2.  Receiving the Initial Oﬀer

If the initial Oﬀer included candidates, the Answerer uses these candidates to start ICE
processing as speciﬁed in

[RFC8838]

.

If the initial Oﬀer included the "ice-options:trickle" attribute, the Answerer
receiving trickled candidates later on.

MUST

 be prepared for

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

In case of a "m/c=" line with default values, none of the eventually trickled candidates will match
the default destination. This situation

 cause an ICE mismatch (see

[RFC8839]

MUST NOT

).

4.1.3.  Sending the Initial Answer

If the Answerer includes candidates in its initial Answer, it
speciﬁed in

[RFC8839]

.

MUST

 encode these candidates as

If the Answerer wants to send its initial Answer before knowing any candidate for one or more
media descriptions, it
the Answerer does not want to include the host IP address in the corresponding "c="line, e.g., due
to privacy reasons, it
address 0.0.0.0 or to the IPv6 equivalent ::.

 set the port to the default value '9' for these media descriptions. If

 include a default address in the "c="line, which is set to the IPv4

SHOULD

MUST

In this case, the Answerer obviously cannot know the RTCP transport address; thus, it
include the "rtcp" attribute
RTCP transport address.

. This avoids potential ICE mismatch (see

[RFC6086]

[RFC8839]

MUST NOT
) for the

If the Answerer accepts the use of RTCP multiplexing
multiplexing

[RFC8858]

, it will include the "rtcp-mux" attribute in the initial Answer.

[RFC5761]

 and/or exclusive RTCP

In any case, the Answerer
[RFC8838]
 and

 include in each "m=" line a "mid" attribute in accordance to

 include the "ice-options:trickle" attribute in accordance to
[RFC5888]
.

MUST

MUST

4.1.4.  Receiving the Initial Answer

If the initial Answer included candidates, the Oﬀerer uses these candidates to start ICE
processing as speciﬁed in

[RFC8838]

.

In case of a "m/c=" line with default values, none of the eventually trickled candidates will match
the default destination. This situation

 cause an ICE mismatch (see

[RFC8839]

MUST NOT

).

4.2.  Subsequent Oﬀer/Answer Exchanges

Subsequent Oﬀer/Answer exchanges are handled the same as regular ICE (see
[RFC8839]

).

Section 4.4 of

If an Oﬀer or Answer needs to be sent while the ICE Agents are in the middle of trickling,
4.4 of [RFC8839]
candidates it had trickled previously for a speciﬁc media stream.

Section
 applies. This means that an ICE Agent includes candidate attributes for all local

4.3.  Establishing the Dialog

In order to be able to start trickling, the following two conditions need to be satisﬁed at the SIP
UAs:

•

Trickle ICE support at the peer agent

MUST

 be conﬁrmed.

•

A dialog

MUST

 have been created between the peers.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

Section 5 discusses in detail the various options for satisfying the ﬁrst of the above conditions.
However, regardless of those mechanisms, agents are certain to have a clear understanding of
whether their peers support trickle ICE once an Oﬀer and an Answer have been exchanged,
which also allows for ICE processing to commence (see Figure 3).

4.3.1.  Establishing Dialog State through Reliable Oﬀer/Answer Delivery

                Alice                      Bob
                  |                         |
                  |     INVITE (Offer)      |
                  |------------------------>|
                  |      183 (Answer)       |
                  |<------------------------|
                  |        PRACK/OK         |
                  |------------------------>|
                  |                         |
          +----------------------------------------+
          |Alice and Bob know that both can trickle|
          |and know that the dialog is in the early|
          |state. Send INFO!                       |
          +----------------------------------------+
                  |                         |
                  |  INFO/OK (+SRFLX Cand.) |
                  |------------------------>|
                  |  INFO/OK (+SRFLX Cand.) |
                  |<------------------------|
                  |                         |

        Note: "SRFLX" denotes server-reflexive candidates

Figure 3: A SIP Oﬀerer can freely trickle as soon as it receives an Answer

As shown in Figure 3, satisfying both conditions is relatively trivial for ICE Agents that have sent
an Oﬀer in an INVITE and that have received an Answer in a reliable provisional response. It is
guaranteed to have conﬁrmed support (or lack thereof) for Trickle ICE at the Answerer and to
have fully initialized the SIP dialog at both ends. Oﬀerers and Answerers (after receipt of the
PRACK request) in the above situation can therefore freely commence trickling within the newly
established dialog.

4.3.2.  Establishing Dialog State through Unreliable Oﬀer/Answer Delivery

The situation is a bit more delicate for agents that have received an Oﬀer in an INVITE request
and have sent an Answer in an unreliable provisional response because, once the response has
been sent, the Answerer does not know when or if it has been received (Figure 4).

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

                Alice                      Bob
                  |                         |
                  |     INVITE (Offer)      |
                  |------------------------>|
                  |      183 (Answer)       |
                  |<------------------------|
                  |                         |
                  |               +----------------------+
                  |               |Bob:  I don't know if |
                  |               |Alice got my 183 or if|
                  |               |her dialog is already |
                  |               |in the early state.   |
                  |               |  Can I send INFO???  |
                  |               +----------------------+
                  |                         |

Figure 4: A SIP UA that sent an Answer in an unreliable provisional response does not know if it
was received or if the dialog at the side of the Oﬀerer has entered the early state

MUST

 cease on receipt of an INFO request carrying a "trickle-ice" Info Package

In order to clear this ambiguity as soon as possible, the Answerer needs to retransmit the
provisional response with the exponential backoﬀ timers described in
retransmissions
body, on receipt of any other in-dialog request from the Oﬀerer, or on transmission of the
Answer in a 2xx response. The Oﬀerer cannot send in-dialog requests until it receives a response,
so the arrival of such a request proves that the response has arrived. Using the INFO request for
dialog conﬁrmation is similar to the procedure described in
that the STUN binding request is replaced by the INFO request.

Section 7.1.1 of [RFC8839]

[RFC3262]

, except

. These

MUST

 send a Trickle ICE INFO request as soon as it receives an SDP Answer in an
MUST

The Oﬀerer
unreliable provisional response. This INFO request
already provided in the Oﬀer (as would be the case when Half Trickle is performed or when new
candidates have not been learned since then). The ﬁrst case could happen when Half Trickle is
used and all candidates are already in the initial oﬀer. The second case could happen when Full
Trickle is used and the Oﬀerer is currently gathering additional candidates but did not yet get
them. Also, if the initial Oﬀer did not contain any candidates, depending on how the Oﬀerer
gathers its candidates and how long it takes to do so, this INFO could still contain no candidates.

 repeat the candidates that were

When Full Trickle is used and if newly learned candidates are available, the Oﬀerer
deliver these candidates in said INFO request, unless it wants to hold back some candidates in
reserve, e.g., in case these candidates are expensive to use and would only be trickled if all other
candidates failed.

SHOULD

 also

The Oﬀerer
ended in the meantime and no further candidates are to be trickled.

 include an "end-of-candidates" attribute in case candidate discovery has

SHOULD

As soon as an Answerer has received such an INFO request, the Answerer has an indication that
a dialog is established at both ends and trickling can begin (Figure 5).

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

Note: The "+SRFLX" in Figure 5 indicates that additional newly learned server-reﬂexive
candidates are included.

                Alice                      Bob
                  |                         |
                  |     INVITE (Offer)      |
                  |------------------------>|
                  |      183 (Answer)       |
                  |<------------------------|
                  |  INFO/OK (+SRFLX Cand.) |
                  |------------------------>|
                  |                         |
                  |               +----------------------+
                  |               |Bob:  Now I know Alice|
                  |               | is ready. Send INFO! |
                  |               +----------------------+
                  |  INFO/OK (+SRFLX Cand.) |
                  |<------------------------|
                  |                         |
                  |    200/ACK (Answer)     |
                  |<------------------------|

          Note: "SRFLX" denotes server-reflexive candidates

Figure 5: A SIP UA that received an INFO request after sending an unreliable provisional response
knows that the dialog at the side of the receiver has entered the early state

When sending the Answer in the 200 OK response to the INVITE request, the Answerer needs to
repeat exactly the same Answer that was previously sent in the unreliable provisional response
in order to fulﬁll the corresponding requirements in
prepared for receiving a diﬀerent number of candidates in that repeated Answer than previously
exchanged via trickling and

 ignore the candidate information in that 200 OK response.

. Thus, the Oﬀerer needs to be

[RFC3264]

MUST

4.3.3.  Initiating Trickle ICE without an SDP Answer

The ability to convey arbitrary candidates in INFO message bodies allows ICE Agents to initiate
trickling without actually sending an Answer. Trickle ICE Agents can therefore respond to an
INVITE request with provisional responses without an SDP Answer
responses serve for establishing an early dialog.

. Such provisional

[RFC3261]

Agents that choose to establish the dialog in this way
exponential backoﬀ timers described in
 cease on receipt
of an INFO request carrying a "trickle-ice" Info Package body, on receipt of any in-dialog requests
from the Oﬀerer, or on transmission of the Answer in a 2xx response. The Oﬀerer cannot send
in-dialog requests until it receives a response, so the arrival of such a request proves that the
response has arrived. This is again similar to the procedure described in
[RFC8839]

 retransmit these responses with the
MUST

, except that an Answer is not yet provided.

. These retransmissions

Section 6.1.1 of

[RFC3262]

MUST

Note: The "+SRFLX" in Figure 6 indicates that additional newly learned server-reﬂexive
candidates are included.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

                Alice                      Bob
                  |                         |
                  |     INVITE (Offer)      |
                  |------------------------>|
                  |      183 (-)            |
                  |<------------------------|
                  |  INFO/OK (SRFLX Cand.)  |
                  |------------------------>|
                  |                         |
                  |               +----------------------+
                  |               |Bob:  Now I know again|
                  |               | that Alice is ready. |
                  |               | Send INFO!           |
                  |               +----------------------+
                  |  INFO/OK (SRFLX Cand.)  |
                  |<------------------------|
                  |    183 (Answer) opt.    |
                  |<------------------------|
                  |  INFO/OK (SRFLX Cand.)  |
                  |<------------------------|
                  |    200/ACK (Answer)     |
                  |<------------------------|

       Note: "SRFLX" denotes server-reflexive candidates

Figure 6: A SIP UA sends an unreliable provisional response without an Answer for establishing an
early dialog

MAY

MUST

 repeat all currently known and used candidates, if

 include all newly gathered candidates since the last INFO request was sent.

When sending the Answer, the agent
any, and
However, if that Answer was already sent in an unreliable provisional response, the Answerers
MUST
fulﬁll the corresponding requirements in
[RFC3264]
needs to be prepared for receiving fewer candidates in that repeated Answer than previously
 ignore the candidate information in that 200 OK response.
exchanged via trickling and

 repeat exactly the same Answer in the 200 OK response to the INVITE request in order to
. In case that trickling continued, an Oﬀerer

MUST

4.4.  Delivering Candidates in INFO Requests

Whenever new ICE candidates become available for sending, agents encode them in "candidate"
attributes as described by

. For example:

[RFC8839]

  a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706432 200a0b:12f0::1 5000 typ host

The use of SIP INFO requests happens within the context of the Info Package as deﬁned in
Section 10. The media type
sdpfrag" as deﬁned in Section 9. The INFO request body adheres to the grammar as speciﬁed in
Section 9.2.

 be set to "application/trickle-ice-

 for their payload

[RFC6838]

MUST

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

Since neither the "candidate" nor the "end-of-candidates" attributes contain information that
would allow correlating them to a speciﬁc "m=" line, it is handled through the use of pseudo "m="
lines.

[RFC5888]

Pseudo "m=" lines follow the SDP syntax for "m=" lines as deﬁned in
the corresponding "m=" line in the SDP Oﬀer or Answer via the identiﬁcation tag in a "mid"
attribute
. A pseudo "m=" line does not provide semantics other than indicating to
which "m=" line a candidate belongs. Consequently, the receiving agent
remaining content of the pseudo "m=" line, which is not deﬁned in this document. This
guarantees that the "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag" bodies do not interfere with the Oﬀer/
.
Answer procedures as speciﬁed in
[RFC3264]

 ignore any

[RFC4566]

MUST

 and are linked to

When sending the INFO request, the agent
MAY
content into the pseudo "m=" line as for the "m=" line in the corresponding Oﬀer or Answer.
However, since Trickle ICE might be decoupled from the Oﬀer/Answer negotiation, the content
might be unknown to the agent. In this case, the agent

, if already known to the agent, include the same

 include the following default values:

MUST

•

The media ﬁeld is set to 'audio'.

•

The port value is set to '9'.

•

The proto value is set to 'RTP/AVP'.

•

The fmt ﬁeld

MUST

 appear only once and is set to '0'.

MUST

Agents
"m=" line whose candidate list they intend to update. Such "mid" attributes
precede the list of candidates for that speciﬁc "m=" line.

 include a pseudo "m=" line and an identiﬁcation tag in a "mid" attribute for every
 immediately

MUST

All "candidate" or "end-of-candidates" attributes following a "mid" attribute, up until (and
excluding) the next occurrence of a pseudo "m=" line, pertain to the "m=" line identiﬁed by that
identiﬁcation tag.

Note, that there is no requirement that the INFO request body contains as many pseudo "m="
lines as the Oﬀer/Answer contains "m=" lines, nor that the pseudo "m=" lines be in the same
order as the "m=" lines that they pertain to. The correspondence can be made via the "mid"
attributes since candidates are grouped in sections headed by "pseudo" "m=" lines. These sections
contain "mid" attribute values that point back to the true "m=" line.

An "end-of-candidates" attribute, preceding the ﬁrst pseudo "m=" line, indicates the end of all
trickling from that agent, as opposed to end of trickling for a speciﬁc "m=" line, which would be
indicated by a media-level "end-of-candidates" attribute.

Refer to Figure 7 for an example of the INFO request content.

The use of pseudo "m=" lines allows for a structure similar to the one in SDP Oﬀers and Answers
where separate media-level and session-level sections can be distinguished. In the current case,
lines preceding the ﬁrst pseudo "m=" line are considered to be session level. Lines appearing in
between or after pseudo "m=" lines will be interpreted as media level.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

Note that while this speciﬁcation uses the "mid" attribute from
not deﬁne any grouping semantics.

[RFC5888]

, it does

All INFO requests
to a speciﬁc ICE generation. An agent
pwd" and "ice-ufrag" attributes that do not match those of the current ICE Negotiation Session.

 carry the "ice-pwd" and "ice-ufrag" attributes that allow mapping them
 discard any received INFO requests containing "ice-

MUST

MUST

MUST

 appear at the same level as the ones in the Oﬀer/
The "ice-pwd" and "ice-ufrag" attributes
Answer exchange. In other words, if they were present as session-level attributes, they will also
appear at the beginning of all INFO request payloads, i.e., preceding the ﬁrst pseudo "m=" line. If
they were originally exchanged as media-level attributes, potentially overriding session-level
values, then they will also be included in INFO request payloads following the corresponding
pseudo "m=" lines.

Note that when candidates are trickled,
delivered to the receiving Trickle ICE implementation not more than once and in the same order
as it was conveyed. If the signaling protocol provides any candidate retransmissions, they need
to be hidden from the ICE implementation. This requirement is fulﬁlled as follows.

 requires that each candidate must be

[RFC8838]

Since the agent is not fully aware of the state of the ICE Negotiation Session at its peer, it
include all currently known and used local candidates in every INFO request. That is, the agent
 repeat in the INFO request body all candidates that were previously sent under the same
MUST
combination of "ice-pwd" and "ice-ufrag" in the same order as they were sent before. In other
words, the sequence of a previously sent list of candidates
requests, and newly gathered candidates
repeating all candidates creates some overhead, it also allows easier handling of problems that
could arise from unreliable transports like, e.g., loss of messages and reordering, which can be
detected through the CSeq: header ﬁeld in the INFO request.

 be added at the end of that list. Although

 change in subsequent INFO

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

In addition, an ICE Agent needs to adhere to
order while trickling.

Section 17 of [RFC8838]

 on preserving candidate

When receiving INFO requests carrying any candidates, agents
 ﬁrst identify and discard
the attribute lines containing candidates they have already received in previous INFO requests
or in the Oﬀer/Answer exchange preceding them.

MUST

Such candidates are considered to be equal if their IP address port, transport, and component ID
are the same. After identifying and discarding the known candidates, the agents
the actual new candidates to the ICE Agents in the same order as they were received in the INFO
request body. The ICE Agents will then process the new candidates according to the rules
described in

[RFC8838]

 forward

MUST

.

Receiving an "end-of-candidates" attribute in an INFO request body -- with the "ice-ufrag" and
"ice-pwd" attributes matching the current ICE generation -- is an indication from the peer agent
that it will not send any further candidates. When included at the session level, i.e., before any

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

pseudo "m=" line, this indication applies to the whole session; when included at the media level,
the indication applies only to the corresponding "m=" line. Handling of such end-of-candidates
indications is deﬁned in

[RFC8838]
.

The example in Figure 7 shows the content of a candidate delivering INFO request. In the
example, the "end-of-candidates" attributes indicate that the candidate gathering is ﬁnished and
that no further INFO requests follow.

  INFO sip:alice@example.com SIP/2.0
  ...
  Info-Package: trickle-ice
  Content-type: application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag
  Content-Disposition: Info-Package
  Content-length: 862

  a=ice-pwd:asd88fgpdd777uzjYhagZg
  a=ice-ufrag:8hhY
  m=audio 9 RTP/AVP 0
  a=mid:1
  a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706432 2001:db8:a0b:12f0::1 5000 typ host
  a=candidate:1 2 UDP 2130706432 2001:db8:a0b:12f0::1 5001 typ host
  a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706431 192.0.2.1 5010 typ host
  a=candidate:1 2 UDP 2130706431 192.0.2.1 5011 typ host
  a=candidate:2 1 UDP 1694498815 192.0.2.3 5010 typ srflx
     raddr 192.0.2.1 rport 8998
  a=candidate:2 2 UDP 1694498815 192.0.2.3 5011 typ srflx
     raddr 192.0.2.1 rport 8998
  a=end-of-candidates
  m=audio 9 RTP/AVP 0
  a=mid:2
  a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706432 2001:db8:a0b:12f0::1 6000 typ host
  a=candidate:1 2 UDP 2130706432 2001:db8:a0b:12f0::1 6001 typ host
  a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706431 192.0.2.1 6010 typ host
  a=candidate:1 2 UDP 2130706431 192.0.2.1 6011 typ host
  a=candidate:2 1 UDP 1694498815 192.0.2.3 6010 typ srflx
     raddr 192.0.2.1 rport 9998
  a=candidate:2 2 UDP 1694498815 192.0.2.3 6011 typ srflx
     raddr 192.0.2.1 rport 9998
  a=end-of-candidates

      Note: In a real INFO request, there will be no line breaks
            in the "candidate" attributes

Figure 7: An Example for the Content of an INFO Request

5.  Initial Discovery of Trickle ICE Support

SIP UAs are required by
their Oﬀers and Answers by using the "ice-options:trickle" attribute, and they
SIP option-tag "trickle-ice" in a SIP Supported: or Require: header ﬁeld. This makes discovery

 to indicate their support of and intent to use Trickle ICE in

[RFC8838]

 include the

MUST

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

fairly straightforward for Answerers or for cases where Oﬀers need to be generated within
existing dialogs (i.e., when sending UPDATE or re-INVITE requests). In both scenarios, prior SDP
bodies will have provided the necessary information.

Obviously, such information is not available at the time a ﬁrst Oﬀer is being constructed, and it is
therefore impossible for ICE Agents to determine support for incremental provisioning that way.
The following options are suggested as ways of addressing this issue.

5.1.  Provisioning Support for Trickle ICE

In certain situations, it may be possible for integrators deploying Trickle ICE to know in advance
that some or all endpoints reachable from within the deployment will support Trickle ICE. This is
the case, for example, if Session Border Controllers (SBCs) with support for this speciﬁcation are
used to connect to UAs that do not support Trickle ICE.

While the exact mechanism for allowing such provisioning is out of scope here, this speciﬁcation
encourages trickle ICE implementations to allow the option in the way they ﬁnd most
appropriate.

However, an Oﬀerer assuming Trickle ICE support
 include a SIP Require: trickle-ice header
ﬁeld. That way, if the provisioned assumption of Trickle ICE support ends up being incorrect, the
failure is (a) operationally easy to track down and (b) recoverable by the client, i.e., they can
resend the request without the SIP Require: header ﬁeld and without the assumption of Trickle
ICE support.

MUST

5.2.  Trickle ICE Discovery with Globally Routable User Agent URIs (GRUUs)

[RFC3840]
 provides a way for SIP UAs to query for support of speciﬁc capabilities using, among
others, OPTIONS requests. On the other hand, support for GRUU according to
 allows
SIP requests to be addressed to speciﬁc UAs (as opposed to arbitrary instances of an address of
record). Combining the two and using the "trickle-ice" option tag deﬁned in Section 10.6 provides
SIP UAs with a way of learning the capabilities of speciﬁc SIP UA instances and then addressing
them directly with INVITE requests that require Trickle ICE support.

[RFC5627]

Such learning of capabilities may happen in diﬀerent ways. One option for a SIP UA is to learn
the GRUU instance ID of a peer through presence and then to query its capabilities with an
OPTIONS request. Alternatively, it can also just send an OPTIONS request to the Address of
Record (AOR) it intends to contact and then inspect the returned response(s) for support of both
GRUU and Trickle ICE (Figure 8). It is noted that using the GRUU means that the INVITE request
can go only to that particular device. This prevents the use of forking for that request.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

         Alice                                                Bob
           |                                                   |
           |        OPTIONS sip:b1@example.com SIP/2.0         |
           |-------------------------------------------------->|
           |                                                   |
           |                      200 OK                       |
           |    Contact: sip:b1@example.com;gr=hha9s8d-999a    |
           |            ;audio;video|;trickle-ice;...          |
           |<--------------------------------------------------|
           |                                                   |
           | INVITE sip:b1@example.com;gr=hha9s8d-999a SIP/2.0 |
           |             Supported: trickle-ice                |
           |                      (Offer)                      |
           |-------------------------------------------------->|
           |                                                   |
           |                  183 (Answer)                     |
           |<--------------------------------------------------|
           |                INFO/OK (Trickling)                |
           |<------------------------------------------------->|
           |                                                   |
           |                      ...                          |
           |                                                   |

Figure 8: Trickle ICE Support Discovery with OPTIONS and GRUU

Conﬁrming support for Trickle ICE through
Trickle negotiation (as opposed to the more lengthy Half Trickle) from the very ﬁrst Oﬀer they
send.

 gives SIP UAs the option to engage in Full

[RFC3840]

5.3.  Fall Back to Half Trickle

[RFC8838]

In cases where none of the other mechanisms in this section are acceptable, SIP UAs should use
. With Half Trickle, agents initiate sessions the same
the Half Trickle mode deﬁned in
way they would when using ICE for SIP
. This means that, prior to actually sending an
Oﬀer, agents ﬁrst gather ICE candidates in a blocking way and then send them all in that Oﬀer.
The blocking nature of the process implies that some amount of latency will be accumulated, and
it is advised that agents try to anticipate it where possible, for example, when user actions
indicate a high likelihood for an imminent call (e.g., activity on a keypad or a phone going oﬀ
hook).

[RFC8839]

Using Half Trickle results in Oﬀers that are compatible with both ICE SIP endpoints
and legacy endpoints

.
[RFC3264]

[RFC8839]

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

STUN/TURN                                                STUN/TURN
Servers          Alice                      Bob          Servers
   |               |                             |               |
   |<--------------|                             |               |
   |               |                             |               |
   |               |                             |               |
   |   Candidate   |                             |               |
   |               |                             |               |
   |               |                             |               |
   |   Discovery   |                             |               |
   |               |                             |               |
   |               |                             |               |
   |-------------->|       INVITE (Offer)        |               |
   |               |---------------------------->|               |
   |               |        183 (Answer)         |-------------->|
   |               |<----------------------------|               |
   |               |  INFO (repeated candidates) |               |
   |               |---------------------------->|               |
   |               |                             |               |
   |               |    INFO (more candidates)   |   Candidate   |
   |               |<----------------------------|               |
   |               |    Connectivity Checks      |               |
   |               |<===========================>|   Discovery   |
   |               |   INFO (more candidates)    |               |
   |               |<----------------------------|               |
   |               |    Connectivity Checks      |<--------------|
   |               |<===========================>|               |
   |               |                             |               |
   |               |          200 OK             |               |
   |               |<----------------------------|               |
   |               |                             |               |
   |               |<======= MEDIA FLOWS =======>|               |
   |               |                             |               |

Figure 9: Example of a Typical (Half) Trickle ICE Exchange with SIP

As a reminder, once a single Oﬀer or Answer has been exchanged within a speciﬁc dialog,
support for Trickle ICE will have been determined. No further use of Half Trickle will therefore
be necessary within that same dialog, and all subsequent exchanges can use the Full Trickle
mode of operation.

6.  Considerations for RTP and RTCP Multiplexing

The following consideration describes options for Trickle ICE in order to give some guidance to
implementers on how trickling can be optimized with respect to providing RTCP candidates.

Handling of the "rtcp" attribute
.
multiplexing
[RFC5761]
These considerations are still valid for Trickle ICE; however, trickling provides more ﬂexibility
for the sequence of candidate exchange in case of RTCP multiplexing.

[RFC3605]
 is already considered in

 and the "rtcp-mux" attribute for RTP/RTCP

Section 5.1.1.1 of [RFC8445]

[RFC5761]

 and in

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

If the Oﬀerer supports RTP/RTCP multiplexing exclusively as speciﬁed in
procedures in that document apply for the handling of the "rtcp-mux-only", "rtcp", and "rtcp-
mux" attributes.

[RFC8858]

, the

While a Half Trickle Oﬀerer has to send an Oﬀer compliant to
candidates for all components, the ﬂexibility of a Full Trickle Oﬀerer allows the sending of only
RTP candidates (component 1) in the initial Oﬀer assuming that RTCP multiplexing is supported
by the Answerer. A Full Trickle Oﬀerer would need to start gathering and trickling RTCP
candidates (component 2) only after having received an indication in the Answer that the
Answerer unexpectedly does not support RTCP multiplexing.

[RFC5761]

[RFC8839]

 and

 including

MAY

 include an "rtcp-mux" attribute

A Trickle Answerer
sdpfrag" body if it supports and uses RTP and RTCP multiplexing. The Trickle Answerer needs to
follow the guidance on the usage of the "rtcp" attribute as given in
Receipt of this attribute at the Oﬀerer in an INFO request prior to the Answer indicates that the
Answerer supports and uses RTP and RTCP multiplexing. The Oﬀerer can use this information,
e.g., for stopping the gathering of RTCP candidates and/or for freeing corresponding resources.

 in the "application/trickle-ice-

.
[RFC3605]

[RFC8839]

[RFC5761]

 and

This behavior is illustrated by the following example Oﬀer that indicates support for RTP and
RTCP multiplexing.

  v=0
  o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP6 atlanta.example.com
  s=
  c=IN IP6 2001:db8:a0b:12f0::3
  t=0 0
  a=ice-pwd:777uzjYhagZgasd88fgpdd
  a=ice-ufrag:Yhh8
  m=audio 5000 RTP/AVP 0
  a=mid:1
  a=rtcp-mux
  a=candidate:1 1 UDP 1658497328 2001:db8:a0b:12f0::3 5000 typ host

Once the dialog is established as described in Section 4.3, the Answerer sends the following INFO
request.

  INFO sip:alice@example.com SIP/2.0
  ...
  Info-Package: trickle-ice
  Content-type: application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag
  Content-Disposition: Info-Package
  Content-length: 161

  a=ice-pwd:asd88fgpdd777uzjYhagZg
  a=ice-ufrag:8hhY
  m=audio 9 RTP/AVP 0
  a=mid:1
  a=rtcp-mux
  a=candidate:1 1 UDP 1658497382 2001:db8:a0b:12f0::4 6000 typ host

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

This INFO request indicates that the Answerer supports and uses RTP and RTCP multiplexing as
well. It allows the Oﬀerer to omit gathering RTCP candidates or releasing already gathered RTCP
candidates. If the INFO request did not contain the "rtcp-mux" attribute, the Oﬀerer has to gather
RTCP candidates unless it wants to wait until receipt of an Answer that eventually conﬁrms
support or non-support for RTP and RTCP multiplexing. In case the Oﬀerer already sent RTCP
candidates in a previous INFO request, it still needs to repeat them in subsequent INFO requests,
even when that support for RTCP multiplexing was conﬁrmed by the Answerer and the Oﬀerer
has released its RTCP candidates.

7.  Considerations for Media Multiplexing

The following considerations describe options for Trickle ICE in order to give some guidance to
implementers on how trickling can be optimized with respect to providing candidates in case of
Media Multiplexing

. It is assumed that the reader is familiar with

.
[RFC8843]

[RFC8843]

ICE candidate exchange is already considered in
are still valid for Trickle ICE; however, trickling provides more ﬂexibility for the sequence of
candidate exchange, especially in Full Trickle mode.

Section 10 of [RFC8843]

. These considerations

Except for bundle-only "m=" lines, a Half Trickle Oﬀerer has to send an Oﬀer with candidates for
all bundled "m=" lines. The additional ﬂexibility, however, allows a Full Trickle Oﬀerer to
initially send only candidates for the "m=" line with the suggested Oﬀerer BUNDLE address.

On receipt of the Answer, the Oﬀerer will detect if BUNDLE is supported by the Answerer and if
the suggested Oﬀerer BUNDLE address was selected. In this case, the Oﬀerer does not need to
trickle further candidates for the remaining "m=" lines in a bundle. However, if BUNDLE is not
supported, the Full Trickle Oﬀerer needs to gather and trickle candidates for the remaining "m="
lines as necessary. If the Answerer selects an Oﬀerer BUNDLE address that is diﬀerent from the
suggested Oﬀerer BUNDLE address, the Full Trickle Oﬀerer needs to gather and trickle
candidates for the "m=" line that carries the selected Oﬀerer BUNDLE address.

SHOULD

A Trickle Answerer
"application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag" body if it supports and uses bundling. When doing so, the
Answerer
Answer.

 include all identiﬁcation-tags in the same order that is used or will be used in the

 include a "group:BUNDLE" attribute

 at session level in the

[RFC8843]

MUST

Receipt of this attribute at the Oﬀerer in an INFO request prior to the Answer indicates that the
Answerer supports and uses bundling. The Oﬀerer can use this information, e.g., for stopping the
gathering of candidates for the remaining "m=" lines in a bundle and/or for freeing
corresponding resources.

This behavior is illustrated by the following example Oﬀer that indicates support for Media
Multiplexing.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

If the Oﬀerer already sent candidates for "m=" lines in a bundle in a previous INFO request, it
still needs to repeat them in subsequent INFO requests, even when that support for bundling was
conﬁrmed by the Answerer and the Oﬀerer has released candidates that are no longer needed.

   v=0
   o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP6 atlanta.example.com
   s=
   c=IN IP6 2001:db8:a0b:12f0::3
   t=0 0
   a=group:BUNDLE foo bar
   a=ice-pwd:777uzjYhagZgasd88fgpdd
   a=ice-ufrag:Yhh8
   m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 0
   a=mid:foo
   a=rtcp-mux
   a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
   a=extmap 1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid
   a=candidate:1 1 UDP 1658497328 2001:db8:a0b:12f0::3 10000 typ host
   m=video 10002 RTP/AVP 31
   a=mid:bar
   a=rtcp-mux
   a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
   a=extmap 1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

The example Oﬀer indicates support for RTP and RTCP multiplexing and contains a "candidate"
attribute only for the "m=" line with the suggested Oﬀerer BUNDLE address. Once the dialog is
established as described in Section 4.3, the Answerer sends the following INFO request.

   INFO sip:alice@example.com SIP/2.0
   ...
   Info-Package: trickle-ice
   Content-type: application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag
   Content-Disposition: Info-Package
   Content-length: 219

   a=group:BUNDLE foo bar
   a=ice-pwd:asd88fgpdd777uzjYhagZg
   a=ice-ufrag:8hhY
   m=audio 9 RTP/AVP 0
   a=mid:foo
   a=rtcp-mux
   a=candidate:1 1 UDP 1658497328 2001:db8:a0b:12f0::3 5000 typ host

This INFO request indicates that the Answerer supports and uses Media Multiplexing as well.
Note that the Answerer only includes a single pseudo "m=" line since candidates matching those
from the second "m=" line in the oﬀer are not needed from the Answerer.

The INFO request also indicates that the Answerer accepted the suggested Oﬀerer BUNDLE
address. This allows the Oﬀerer to omit gathering RTP and RTCP candidates for the other "m="
lines or releasing already gathered candidates. If the INFO request did not contain the

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

"group:BUNDLE" attribute, the Oﬀerer has to gather RTP and RTCP candidates for the other "m="
lines unless it wants to wait until receipt of an Answer that eventually conﬁrms support or non-
support for Media Multiplexing.

Independent of using Full Trickle or Half Trickle mode, the rules from
Oﬀerer and Answerer, when putting attributes as speciﬁed in Section 9.2 in the "application/
trickle-ice-sdpfrag" body.

[RFC8859]

 apply to both,

8.  SDP "end-of-candidates" Attribute

8.1.  Deﬁnition

This section deﬁnes the new SDP media-level and session-level
[RFC4566]
attribute. "end-of-candidates" is a property attribute
including this attribute in an Oﬀer or Answer, the sending agent indicates that it will not trickle
further candidates. When included at the session level, this indication applies to the whole
session; when included at the media level, the indication applies only to the corresponding
media description.

[RFC4566]
; hence, it has no value. By

 "end-of-candidates"

Name:

end-of-candidates

Value:

N/A

Usage Level:

media and session level

Charset Dependent:

no

Mux Category:

IDENTICAL

Example:

a=end-of-candidates

8.2.  Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

MAY

 include an "end-of-candidates" attribute in case candidate

The Oﬀerer or Answerer
discovery has ended and no further candidates are to be trickled. The Oﬀerer or Answerer
MUST
provide the "end-of-candidates" attribute together with the "ice-ufrag" and "ice-pwd" attributes of
the current ICE generation as required by
[RFC8838]
indication applies to the whole session; when included at the media level, the indication applies
only to the corresponding media description.

. When included at the session level, this

Receipt of an "end-of-candidates" attribute at an Oﬀerer or Answerer -- with the "ice-ufrag" and
"ice-pwd" attributes matching the current ICE generation -- indicates that the gathering of
candidates has ended at the peer, for either the session or only the corresponding media
description as speciﬁed above. The receiving agent forwards an end-of-candidates indication to
the ICE Agent, which in turn acts as speciﬁed in

.
[RFC8838]

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

9.  Content Type "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag"

9.1.  Overall Description

An "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag" body is used exclusively by the "trickle-ice" Info Package.
Other SDP-related applications need to deﬁne their own media type. The INFO request body uses
. A valid body uses only
a subset of the possible SDP lines as deﬁned by the grammar in
pseudo "m=" lines and certain attributes that are needed and/or useful for trickling candidates.
The content adheres to the following grammar.

[RFC4566]

9.2.  Grammar

The grammar of an "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag" body is based on the following ABNF
[RFC5234]
candidates. The grammar uses the indicator for case-sensitive %s, as deﬁned in

. It speciﬁes the subset of existing SDP attributes that is needed or useful for trickling

[RFC7405]

, but it

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

also imports grammar for other SDP attributes that precede the production of
sender
treat them as case insensitive.

[RFC7405]
 use lower case for attributes from such earlier grammar, but a receiver

SHOULD

. A
MUST

   ;  Syntax
   trickle-ice-sdpfrag =   session-level-fields
                     pseudo-media-descriptions
   session-level-fields = *(session-level-field CRLF)

   session-level-field =  ice-lite-attribute /
                     ice-pwd-attribute /
                     ice-ufrag-attribute /
                     ice-options-attribute /
                     ice-pacing-attribute /
                     end-of-candidates-attribute /
                     bundle-group-attribute /
                     extension-attribute-fields
                                         ; for future extensions

   ice-lite-attribute     = %s"a" "=" ice-lite
   ice-pwd-attribute      = %s"a" "=" ice-pwd-att
   ice-ufrag-attribute    = %s"a" "=" ice-ufrag-att
   ice-pacing-attribute   = %s"a" "=" ice-pacing-att
   ice-options-attribute  = %s"a" "=" ice-options
   end-of-candidates-attribute  = %s"a" "=" end-of-candidates
   end-of-candidates            = %s"end-of-candidates"
   bundle-group-attribute = %s"a" "=" %s"group:" bundle-semantics
                              *(SP identification-tag)
   bundle-semantics = "BUNDLE"
   extension-attribute-fields   = attribute-fields

   pseudo-media-descriptions    =  *( media-field
                              trickle-ice-attribute-fields )
   trickle-ice-attribute-fields = *(trickle-ice-attribute-field CRLF)
   trickle-ice-attribute-field = mid-attribute /
                           candidate-attributes /
                           ice-pwd-attribute  /
                           ice-ufrag-attribute /
                           remote-candidate-attribute /
                           end-of-candidates-attribute /
                           rtcp-attribute /
                           rtcp-mux-attribute /
                           rtcp-mux-only-attribute /
                           extension-attribute-fields
                                           ; for future extensions

   rtcp-attribute                = %s"a" "=" %s"rtcp"
   rtcp-mux-attribute            = %s"a" "=" %s"rtcp-mux"
   rtcp-mux-only-attribute       = %s"a" "=" %s"rtcp-mux-only"
   candidate-attributes          = %s"a" "=" candidate-attribute
   remote-candidate-attribute    = %s"a" "=" remote-candidate-att

ice-lite, ice-pwd-att, remote-candidate-att, ice-ufrag-att, ice-pacing-att, ice-options, candidate-
attribute, and remote-candidate-att are from
from

; identiﬁcation-tag and mid-attribute are
. The "rtcp" attribute is

; and media-ﬁeld and attribute-ﬁelds are from

[RFC8839]

[RFC4566]

[RFC5888]

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

[RFC3605]

deﬁned in
attribute is deﬁned in
corresponding RFCs and are reproduced here.

[RFC8858]

, the "rtcp-mux" attribute is deﬁned in

[RFC5761]

, and the "rtcp-mux-only"

. The latter attributes lack formal grammar in their

MUST

 appear at the same level as the ones in the Oﬀer/
The "ice-pwd" and "ice-ufrag" attributes
Answer exchange. In other words, if they were present as session-level attributes, they will also
appear at the beginning of all INFO request payloads, i.e., preceding all pseudo "m=" lines. If they
were originally exchanged as media-level attributes, potentially overriding session-level values,
then they will also be included in INFO request payloads following the corresponding pseudo
"m=" lines.

An Agent

MUST

 ignore any received unknown extension-attribute-ﬁelds.

10.  Info Package

10.1.  Rationale -- Why INFO?

The decision to use SIP INFO requests as a candidate transport method is based primarily on
their lightweight nature. Once a dialog has been established, INFO requests can be exchanged
both ways with no restrictions on timing and frequency and no risk of collision.

A critical fact is that the sending of Trickle ICE candidates in one direction is entirely uncoupled
from sending candidates in the other direction. Thus, the sending of candidates in each direction
can be done by a stream of INFO requests that is not correlated with the stream of INFO requests
in the other direction. And since each INFO request cumulatively includes the contents of all
previous INFO requests in that direction, the ordering between INFO requests need not be
preserved. All of this permits using largely independent INFO requests.

Contrarily, UPDATE or other Oﬀer/Answer mechanisms assume that the messages in each
direction are tightly coupled with messages in the other direction. Using Oﬀer/Answer and
UPDATE requests

 would introduce the following complications:

[RFC3311]

Blocking of messages:

Oﬀer/Answer is deﬁned as a strictly sequential mechanism in

.
[RFC3264]
There can only be a maximum of one active exchange at any point of time. Both sides cannot
simultaneously send Oﬀers nor can they generate multiple Oﬀers prior to receiving an
Answer. Using UPDATE requests for candidate transport would therefore imply the
implementation of a candidate pool at every agent where candidates can be stored until it is
once again that agent's "turn" to emit an Answer or a new Oﬀer. Such an approach would
introduce non-negligible complexity for no additional value.

Elevated risk of glare:

The sequential nature of Oﬀer/Answer also makes it impossible for both

sides to send Oﬀers simultaneously. What's worse is that there are no mechanisms in SIP to
actually prevent that.
described as "glare", only deﬁnes a procedure for addressing the issue after it has occurred.
According to that procedure, both Oﬀers are invalidated and both sides need to retry the

, where the situation of Oﬀers crossing on the wire is

[RFC3261]

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

negotiation after a period between 0 and 4 seconds. The high likelihood for glare and the
average two-second backoﬀ intervals to occur implies that the duration of Trickle ICE
processing would not only fail to improve but actually exceed those of regular ICE.

INFO messages decouple the exchange of candidates from the Oﬀer/Answer negotiation and are
subject to none of the glare issues described above, which makes them a very convenient and
lightweight mechanism for asynchronous delivery of candidates.

Using in-dialog INFO messages also provides a way of guaranteeing that candidates are delivered
end to end, between the same entities that are actually in the process of initiating a session. Out-
of-dialog alternatives would have implied requiring support for GRUU
GRUUs relatively low adoption levels, would have constituted too strong of a constraint to the
adoption of Trickle ICE.

 that, given

[RFC5627]

10.2.  Overall Description

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes an Info Package for use by SIP UAs implementing Trickle ICE. INFO
requests carry ICE candidates discovered after the peer UAs have conﬁrmed mutual support for
Trickle ICE.

10.3.  Applicability

The purpose of the ICE protocol is to establish a media path in the presence of NAT and ﬁrewalls.
The candidates are transported in INFO requests and are part of this establishment.

Candidates sent by a Trickle ICE Agent after the Oﬀer follow the same signaling path and reach
the same entity as the Oﬀer itself. While it is true that GRUUs can be used to achieve this, one of
the goals of this speciﬁcation is to allow operation of Trickle ICE in as many environments as
possible including those without GRUU support. Using out-of-dialog SUBSCRIBE/NOTIFY requests
would not satisfy this goal.

10.4.  Info Package Name

This document deﬁnes a SIP Info Package as per
package is "trickle-ice".

[RFC6086]

. The Info Package token name for this

10.5.  Info Package Parameters

This document does not deﬁne any Info Package parameters.

10.6.  SIP Option Tags

[RFC6086]
the option-tag construct of the SIP grammar as follows:

 allows Info Package speciﬁcations to deﬁne SIP option-tags. This speciﬁcation extends

 option-tag /= "trickle-ice"

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

SIP entities that support this speciﬁcation
Supported: or Require: header ﬁeld within all SIP INVITE requests and responses.

 place the "trickle-ice" option-tag in a SIP

MUST

When responding to, or generating, a SIP OPTIONS request, a SIP entity
"trickle-ice" option-tag in a SIP Supported: or Require: header ﬁeld.

MUST

 also include the

10.7.  INFO Request Body Parts

Entities implementing this speciﬁcation
sdpfrag" in SIP INFO requests as deﬁned in Section 9.2. The payload is used to convey SDP-
encoded ICE candidates.

 include a payload of type "application/trickle-ice-

MUST

10.8.  Info Package Usage Restrictions

This document does not deﬁne any Info Package Usage Restrictions.

10.9.  Rate of INFO Requests

Given that IP addresses may be gathered rapidly, a Trickle ICE Agent with many network
interfaces might create a high rate of INFO requests if every newly detected candidate is trickled
 aggregate ICE candidates in case an
individually without aggregation. An implementation
unreliable transport protocol such as UDP is used. A Trickle ICE Agent
one INFO request pending at any one time. When INFO messages are sent over an unreliable
transport, they are retransmitted according to the rules speciﬁed in

[RFC3261], Section 17.1.2.1

 have more than

MUST NOT

MUST

.

If the INFO requests are sent on top of TCP, which is probably the standard way, it is not an issue
for the network anymore, but it can remain one for SIP proxies and other intermediaries
forwarding the SIP INFO messages. Also, an endpoint may not be able to tell that it has
congestion controlled transport all the way.

10.10.  Info Package Security Considerations

See Section 13.

11.  Deployment Considerations

Trickle ICE uses two mechanisms for the exchange of candidate information. This imposes new
requirements to certain middleboxes that are used in some networks, e.g., for monitoring
purposes. While the ﬁrst mechanism, SDP Oﬀers and Answers, is already used by regular ICE and
is assumed to be supported, the second mechanism, INFO request bodies, needs to be considered
by such middleboxes as well when trickle ICE is used. Such middleboxes need to make sure that
they remain in the signaling path of the INFO requests and understand the INFO request body.

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

12.  IANA Considerations

12.1.  SDP "end-of-candidates" Attribute

This section deﬁnes a new SDP media-level and session-level
attribute, which is a property attribute

[RFC4566]

 and hence has no value.

[RFC4566]

 "end-of-candidates"

Name:

end-of-candidates

Value:

N/A

Usage Level:

media and session

Charset Dependent:

no

Purpose:

The sender indicates that it will not trickle further ICE candidates.

O/A Procedures:

RFC 8840 deﬁnes the detailed SDP Oﬀer/Answer procedures for the "end-

of-candidates" attribute.

Mux Category:

IDENTICAL

Reference:

RFC 8840

Example:

a=end-of-candidates

12.2.  Media Type "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag"

This document deﬁnes the new media type "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag" in accordance with
[RFC6838]
.

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

trickle-ice-sdpfrag

Required parameters:

None.

Optional parameters:

None.

Encoding considerations:

The media contents follow the same rules as SDP, except as noted in

this document. The media contents are text, with the grammar speciﬁed in Section 9.2.

Although the initially deﬁned content of a trickle-ice-sdpfrag body does only include ASCII
characters, UTF-8-encoded content might be introduced via extension attributes. The "charset"
attribute may be used to signal the presence of other character sets in certain parts of a
trickle-ice-sdpfrag body (see
represented in SDP or a trickle-ice-sdpfrag body.

). Arbitrary binary content cannot be directly

[RFC4566]

Security considerations:

See

[RFC4566]

 and RFC 8840

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

Interoperability considerations:

See RFC 8840

Published speciﬁcation:

See RFC 8840

Applications that use this media type:

Trickle ICE

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

Deprecated alias names for this type:
Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh File Type Code(s):

N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A

Person and email address to contact for further information:

The IESG (iesg@ietf.org)

Intended usage:

Trickle ICE for SIP as speciﬁed in RFC 8840.

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Author/Change controller:

The IESG (iesg@ietf.org)

Provisional registration? (standards tree only):

N/A

12.3.  SIP Info Package "trickle-ice"

This document deﬁnes a new SIP Info Package named "trickle-ice" and updates the "Info
Packages Registry" with the following entry.

Name

Reference

trickle-ice

RFC 8840

Table 1

12.4.  SIP Option Tag "trickle-ice"

This speciﬁcation registers a new SIP option tag "trickle-ice" as per the guidelines in
of [RFC3261]
following entry:

 and updates the "Option Tags" subregistry of the SIP Parameters registry with the

Section 27.1

Name

trickle‑ice

Table 2

Description

This option tag is used to indicate that a UA supports and
understands Trickle ICE.

Reference

RFC 8840

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

13.  Security Considerations

The Security Considerations of
clariﬁes how the above speciﬁcations are used together for trickling candidates and does not
create additional security risks.

 apply. This document

[RFC6086] [RFC8838]
,

[RFC8839]

, and

The new Info Package "trickle-ice" and the new media type "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag" do
not introduce additional security considerations when used in the context of Trickle ICE. Both
are not intended to be used for other applications, so any security considerations for its use in
other contexts is out of the scope of this document

14.  References

14.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3261]

[RFC3262]

[RFC3264]

[RFC3605]

[RFC4566]

[RFC5234]

[RFC5761]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R.,
Handley, M., and E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
10.17487/RFC3261

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
, June 2002,

,
.

,

,
Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "Reliability of Provisional Responses in
,
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3262 DOI 10.17487/RFC3262
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3262>

,

.

, June 2002,

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

,

,

.

,

,

Huitema, C. "Real Time Control Protocol (RTCP) attribute in Session Description
,
Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3605 DOI 10.17487/RFC3605
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3605>

, October 2003,

<https://

,

.

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

Perkins, C. and M. Westerlund "Multiplexing RTP Data and Control Packets on a
,
,
Single Port" RFC 5761 DOI 10.17487/RFC5761
editor.org/info/rfc5761>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2010,

.

,

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

[RFC5888]

[RFC6086]

[RFC6838]

[RFC7405]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8838]

[RFC8839]

[RFC8843]

[RFC8858]

[RFC8859]

,
Camarillo, G. and H. Schulzrinne "The Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
Grouping Framework" RFC 5888 DOI 10.17487/RFC5888
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5888>

, June 2010,

,

<https://

,
Holmberg, C., Burger, E., and H. Kaplan "Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) INFO
,
Method and Package Framework" RFC 6086 DOI 10.17487/RFC6086
2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6086>

, January

.

,

Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen "Media Type Speciﬁcations and Registration
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, January 2013,

<https://

,

,

.

,

,

Kyzivat, P. "Case-Sensitive String Support in ABNF" RFC 7405 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7405

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7405>

, December 2014,

.

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

Ivov, E., Uberti, J., and P. Saint-Andre "Trickle ICE: Incremental Provisioning of
Candidates for the Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) Protocol" RFC
,
8838 DOI 10.17487/RFC8838
rfc8838>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2021,

,

.

,

Petit-Huguenin, M., Nandakumar, S., Holmberg, C., Keränen, A., and R. Shpount
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer Procedures for Interactive
, January
,
Connectivity Establishment (ICE)" RFC 8839 DOI 10.17487/RFC8839
2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8839>

.

,

,

Holmberg, C., Alvestrand, H., and C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8843 DOI 10.17487/RFC8843
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8843>

,
,

,

,

Holmberg, C. "Indicating Exclusive Support of RTP and RTP Control Protocol
,
(RTCP) Multiplexing Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8858
DOI 10.17487/RFC8858

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8858>

, January 2021,

,

.

,

Nandakumar, S. "A Framework for Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
,
Attributes When Multiplexing" RFC 8859 DOI 10.17487/RFC8859
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8859>

, January 2021,

14.2.  Informative References

[RFC3311]

Rosenberg, J. "The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) UPDATE Method" RFC 3311
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3311>
DOI 10.17487/RFC3311
.

, October 2002,

,

,

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

[RFC3840]

[RFC5389]

[RFC5627]

[RFC5766]

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., and P. Kyzivat "Indicating User Agent Capabilities
in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3840 DOI 10.17487/RFC3840
, August
,
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3840>

.

,

,

Rosenberg, J., Mahy, R., Matthews, P., and D. Wing "Session Traversal Utilities for
NAT (STUN)" RFC 5389 DOI 10.17487/RFC5389
,
.
editor.org/info/rfc5389>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2008,

,

,

,

Rosenberg, J. "Obtaining and Using Globally Routable User Agent URIs (GRUUs)
,
in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 5627 DOI 10.17487/RFC5627
October 2009,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5627>

.

,

,

Mahy, R., Matthews, P., and J. Rosenberg "Traversal Using Relays around NAT
(TURN): Relay Extensions to Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN)" RFC
,
5766 DOI 10.17487/RFC5766
rfc5766>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, April 2010,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

The authors like to thank
Simon Perreault Roman Shpount
,
suggestions for improvements and optimizations.

,
Martin Thomson

, and

Flemming Andreasen Ayush Jain Paul Kyzivat Jonathan Lennox

,

,

,

 for reviewing and/or making various

The authors also like to thank
Campbell
Adam Roach Mirja Kühlewind
improving the document during IESG review.

, and

 for his AD review and suggestions. In addition, the authors thank
Eric Rescorla

,
 for their comments and/or text proposals for

,

Flemming Andreasen

 for shepherding this document and

Ben
Benjamin Kaduk

Many thanks to
sections.

Dale Worley

 for the Gen-Art review and proposed enhancements for several

Many thanks to

Joerg Ott

 for the TSV-Art review and suggested improvements.

The authors thank

Shawn Emery

 for the Security Directorate review.

Authors' Addresses

Emil Ivov
Jitsi
67000 Strasbourg
France
Phone:
Email:

 +33 6 72 81 15 55
 emcho@jitsi.org

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8840

Trickle ICE for SIP

January 2021

Thomas Stach
Unaﬃliated
1130 Vienna
Austria
Email:

 thomass.stach@gmail.com

Enrico Marocco
Telecom Italia
Via G. Reiss Romoli, 274
10148 Turin
Italy
Email:

 enrico.marocco@telecomitalia.it

Christer Holmberg
Ericsson
Hirsalantie 11
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 christer.holmberg@ericsson.com

Ivov, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

