Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8794
Standards Track
July 2020
2070-1721
S. Lhomme

D. Rice M. Bunkus

RFC 8794
Extensible Binary Meta Language

Abstract

This document deﬁnes the Extensible Binary Meta Language (EBML) format as a binary
container format designed for audio/video storage. EBML is designed as a binary equivalent to
XML and uses a storage-eﬃcient approach to build nested Elements with identiﬁers, lengths, and
values. Similar to how an XML Schema deﬁnes the structure and semantics of an XML Document,
this document deﬁnes how EBML Schemas are created to convey the semantics of an EBML
Document.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8794

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Notation and Conventions

3.  Structure

4.  Variable-Size Integer

4.1.  VINT_WIDTH

4.2.  VINT_MARKER

4.3.  VINT_DATA

4.4.  VINT Examples

5.  Element ID

6.  Element Data Size

6.1.  Data Size Format

6.2.  Unknown Data Size

6.3.  Data Size Values

7.  EBML Element Types

7.1.  Signed Integer Element

7.2.  Unsigned Integer Element

7.3.  Float Element

7.4.  String Element

7.5.  UTF-8 Element

7.6.  Date Element

7.7.  Master Element

7.8.  Binary Element

8.  EBML Document

8.1.  EBML Header

8.2.  EBML Body

9.  EBML Stream

10. EBML Versioning

10.1.  EBML Header Version

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

10.2.  EBML Document Version

11. Elements semantics

11.1.  EBML Schema

11.1.1.  EBML Schema Example

11.1.2.  <EBMLSchema> Element

11.1.3.  <EBMLSchema> Namespace

11.1.4.  <EBMLSchema> Attributes

11.1.5.  <element> Element

11.1.6.  <element> Attributes

11.1.7.  <documentation> Element

11.1.8.  <documentation> Attributes

11.1.9.  <implementation_note> Element

11.1.10. <implementation_note> Attributes

11.1.11. <restriction> Element

11.1.12. <enum> Element

11.1.13. <enum> Attributes

11.1.14. <extension> Element

11.1.15. <extension> Attributes

11.1.16. XML Schema for EBML Schema

11.1.17. Identically Recurring Elements

11.1.18. Textual expression of ﬂoats

11.1.19. Note on the use of default attributes to deﬁne Mandatory EBML Elements

11.2.  EBML Header Elements

11.2.1.  EBML Element

11.2.2.  EBMLVersion Element

11.2.3.  EBMLReadVersion Element

11.2.4.  EBMLMaxIDLength Element

11.2.5.  EBMLMaxSizeLength Element

11.2.6.  DocType Element

11.2.7.  DocTypeVersion Element

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

11.2.8.  DocTypeReadVersion Element

11.2.9.  DocTypeExtension Element

11.2.10. DocTypeExtensionName Element

11.2.11. DocTypeExtensionVersion Element

11.3.  Global Elements

11.3.1.  CRC-32 Element

11.3.2.  Void Element

12. Considerations for Reading EBML Data

13. Terminating Elements

14. Guidelines for Updating Elements

14.1.  Reducing Element Data in Size

14.1.1.  Adding a Void Element

14.1.2.  Extending the Element Data Size

14.1.3.  Terminating Element Data

14.2.  Considerations when Updating Elements with Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC)

15. Backward and Forward Compatibility

15.1.  Backward Compatibility

15.2.  Forward Compatibility

16. Security Considerations

17. IANA Considerations

17.1.  EBML Element IDs Registry

17.2.  EBML DocTypes Registry

18. Normative References

19. Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

EBML, short for Extensible Binary Meta Language, speciﬁes a binary format aligned with octets
(bytes) and inspired by the principle of XML (a framework for structuring data).

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

The goal of this document is to deﬁne a generic, binary, space-eﬃcient format that can be used to
deﬁne more complex formats using an EBML Schema. EBML is used by the multimedia
container, Matroska
scope of this document.

. The applicability of EBML for other use cases is beyond the

[Matroska]

The deﬁnition of the EBML format recognizes the idea behind HTML and XML as a good one:
separate structure and semantics allowing the same structural layer to be used with multiple,
possibly widely diﬀering, semantic layers. Except for the EBML Header and a few Global
Elements, this speciﬁcation does not deﬁne particular EBML format semantics; however, this
speciﬁcation is intended to deﬁne how other EBML-based formats can be deﬁned, such as the
audio/video container formats Matroska and WebM

.
[WebM]

EBML uses a simple approach of building Elements upon three pieces of data (tag, length, and
value), as this approach is well known, easy to parse, and allows selective data parsing. The
EBML structure additionally allows for hierarchical arrangement to support complex structural
formats in an eﬃcient manner.

A typical EBML ﬁle has the following structure:

EBML Header (master)
  + DocType (string)
  + DocTypeVersion (unsigned integer)
EBML Body Root (master)
  + ElementA (utf-8)
  + Parent (master)
    + ElementB (integer)
  + Parent (master)
    + ElementB (integer)

2.  Notation and Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document deﬁnes speciﬁc terms in order to deﬁne the format and application of EBML.
Speciﬁc terms are deﬁned below:

EBML:

Extensible Binary Meta Language

EBML Document Type:

A name provided by an EBML Schema to designate a particular

implementation of EBML for a data format (e.g., Matroska and WebM).

EBML Schema:

A standardized deﬁnition for the structure of an EBML Document Type.

EBML Document:

A datastream comprised of only two components, an EBML Header and an

EBML Body.

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

EBML Reader:

A data parser that interprets the semantics of an EBML Document and creates a

way for programs to use EBML.

EBML Stream:

A ﬁle that consists of one or more EBML Documents that are concatenated

together.

EBML Header:

A declaration that provides processing instructions and identiﬁcation of the EBML

Body. The EBML Header is analogous to an XML Declaration
"Prolog and Document Type Declaration").

[XML]

 (see Section 2.8 on

EBML Body:

All data of an EBML Document following the EBML Header.

Variable-Size Integer:

A compact variable-length binary value that deﬁnes its own length.

VINT:

Also known as Variable-Size Integer.

EBML Element:

A foundation block of data that contains three parts: an Element ID, an

Element Data Size, and Element Data.

Element ID:

A binary value, encoded as a Variable-Size Integer, used to uniquely identify a

deﬁned EBML Element within a speciﬁc EBML Schema.

Element Data Size:

An expression, encoded as a Variable-Size Integer, of the length in

octets of Element Data.

VINTMAX:

The maximum possible value that can be stored as Element Data Size.

Unknown-Sized Element:

An Element with an unknown Element Data Size.

Element Data:

The value(s) of the EBML Element, which is identiﬁed by its Element ID and
Element Data Size. The form of the Element Data is deﬁned by this document and the
corresponding EBML Schema of the Element's EBML Document Type.

Root Level:

The starting level in the hierarchy of an EBML Document.

Root Element:

A mandatory, nonrepeating EBML Element that occurs at the top level of the
path hierarchy within an EBML Body and contains all other EBML Elements of the EBML
Body, excepting optional Void Elements.

Top-Level Element:
Element.

An EBML Element deﬁned to only occur as a Child Element of the Root

Master Element:

The Master Element contains zero, one, or many other EBML Elements.

Child Element:

A Child Element is a relative term to describe the EBML Elements

immediately contained within a Master Element.

Parent Element:

A relative term to describe the Master Element that contains a speciﬁed

element. For any speciﬁed EBML Element that is not at Root Level, the Parent Element
refers to the Master Element in which that EBML Element is directly contained.

Descendant Element:

A relative term to describe any EBML Elements contained within a

Master Element, including any of the Child Elements of its Child Elements, and so on.

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

Void Element:

An Element used to overwrite data or reserve space within a Master Element

for later use.

Element Name:

The human-readable name of the EBML Element.

Element Path:

The hierarchy of Parent Element where the EBML Element is expected to be

found in the EBML Body.

Empty Element:

An EBML Element that has an Element Data Size with all VINT_DATA bits set

to zero, which indicates that the Element Data of the Element is zero octets in length.

3.  Structure

EBML uses a system of Elements to compose an EBML Document. EBML Elements incorporate
three parts: an Element ID, an Element Data Size, and Element Data. The Element Data, which is
described by the Element ID, includes either binary data, one or more other EBML Elements, or
both.

4.  Variable-Size Integer

The Element ID and Element Data Size are both encoded as a Variable-Size Integer. The Variable-
Size Integer is composed of a VINT_WIDTH, VINT_MARKER, and VINT_DATA, in that order.
Variable-Size Integers
 left-pad the VINT_DATA value with zero bits so that the whole
Variable-Size Integer is octet aligned. The Variable-Size Integer will be referred to as VINT for
shorthand.

MUST

4.1.  VINT_WIDTH

Each Variable-Size Integer starts with a VINT_WIDTH followed by a VINT_MARKER. VINT_WIDTH
is a sequence of zero or more bits of value 0 and is terminated by the VINT_MARKER, which is a
single bit of value 1. The total length in bits of both VINT_WIDTH and VINT_MARKER is the total
length in octets in of the Variable-Size Integer.

The single bit 1 starts a Variable-Size Integer with a length of one octet. The sequence of bits 01
starts a Variable-Size Integer with a length of two octets. 001 starts a Variable-Size Integer with a
length of three octets, and so on, with each additional 0 bit adding one octet to the length of the
Variable-Size Integer.

4.2.  VINT_MARKER

The VINT_MARKER serves as a separator between the VINT_WIDTH and VINT_DATA. Each
Variable-Size Integer
length and contain a bit with a value of one. The ﬁrst bit with a value of one within the Variable-
Size Integer is the VINT_MARKER.

 contain exactly one VINT_MARKER. The VINT_MARKER is one bit in

MUST

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

4.3.  VINT_DATA

The VINT_DATA portion of the Variable-Size Integer includes all data following (but not
including) the VINT_MARKER until end of the Variable-Size Integer whose length is derived from
the VINT_WIDTH. The bits required for the VINT_WIDTH and the VINT_MARKER use one out of
every eight bits of the total length of the Variable-Size Integer. Thus, a Variable-Size Integer of 1-
octet length supplies 7 bits for VINT_DATA, a 2-octet length supplies 14 bits for VINT_DATA, and a
3-octet length supplies 21 bits for VINT_DATA. If the number of bits required for VINT_DATA is
less than the bit size of VINT_DATA, then VINT_DATA
 be zero-padded to the left to a size
that ﬁts. The VINT_DATA value

 be expressed as a big-endian unsigned integer.

MUST

MUST

4.4.  VINT Examples

Table 1 shows examples of Variable-Size Integers with lengths from 1 to 5 octets. The "Usable
Bits" column refers to the number of bits that can be used in the VINT_DATA. The
"Representation" column depicts a binary expression of Variable-Size Integers where
VINT_WIDTH is depicted by 0, the VINT_MARKER as 1, and the VINT_DATA as x.

Octet Length

Usable Bits

Representation

1

2

3

4

5

7

14

21

28

35

1xxx xxxx

01xx xxxx xxxx xxxx

001x xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx

0001 xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx

0000 1xxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx

Table 1: VINT examples depicting usable bits

A Variable-Size Integer may be rendered at octet lengths larger than needed to store the data in
order to facilitate overwriting it at a later date -- e.g., when its ﬁnal size isn't known in advance.
In Table 2, an integer 2 (with a corresponding binary value of 0b10) is shown encoded as
diﬀerent Variable-Size Integers with lengths from one octet to four octets. All four encoded
examples have identical semantic meaning, though the VINT_WIDTH and the padding of the
VINT_DATA vary.

Integer Octet

Length

As Represented in VINT
(binary)

As Represented in VINT
(hexadecimal)

2

2

2

1

2

3

1000 0010

0100 0000 0000 0010

0010 0000 0000 0000 0000 0010

0x82

0x4002

0x200002

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

Integer Octet

Length

2

4

As Represented in VINT
(binary)

As Represented in VINT
(hexadecimal)

0001 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000
0000 0010

0x10000002

Table 2: VINT examples depicting the same integer value rendered at diﬀerent VINT lengths

5.  Element ID

MAY

 be used if the EBMLMaxIDLength

An Element ID is a Variable-Size Integer. By default, Element IDs are from one octet to four octets
in length, although Element IDs of greater lengths
Element of the EBML Header is set to a value greater than four (see Section 11.2.4). The bits of the
VINT_DATA component of the Element ID
VINT_DATA component of the Element ID
example, an Element ID with binary encoding of 1011 1111 is valid, whereas an Element ID with
binary encoding of 0100 0000 0011 1111 stores a semantically equal VINT_DATA but is invalid,
because a shorter VINT encoding is possible. Additionally, an Element ID with binary encoding of
1111 1111 is invalid, since the VINT_DATA section is set to all one values, whereas an Element ID
with binary encoding of 0100 0000 0111 1111 stores a semantically equal VINT_DATA and is the
shortest-possible VINT encoding.

 be all 0 values or all 1 values. The
 be encoded at the shortest valid length. For

MUST NOT

MUST

Table 3 details these speciﬁc examples further:

VINT_WIDTH VINT_MARKER

VINT_DATA Element ID Status

1

0000000

Invalid: VINT_DATA
to all 0

MUST NOT

 be set

1

00000000000000

Invalid: VINT_DATA
to all 0

MUST NOT

 be set

1

1

1

1

1

0000001

Valid

00000000000001

Invalid: A shorter VINT_DATA
encoding is available.

0111111

Valid

00000000111111

Invalid: A shorter VINT_DATA
encoding is available.

1111111

Invalid: VINT_DATA
to all 1

MUST NOT

 be set

1

00000001111111

Valid

0

0

0

0

Table 3: Examples of valid and invalid Element IDs

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

The range and count of possible Element IDs are determined by their octet length. Examples of
this are provided in Table 4.

Element ID Octet Length

Range of Valid Element IDs Number of Valid Element IDs

1

2

3

4

0x81 - 0xFE

0x407F - 0x7FFE

0x203FFF - 0x3FFFFE

0x101FFFFF - 0x1FFFFFFE

126

16,256

2,080,768

268,338,304

Table 4: Examples of count and range for Element IDs at various octet lengths

6.  Element Data Size

6.1.  Data Size Format

The Element Data Size expresses the length in octets of Element Data. The Element Data Size
itself is encoded as a Variable-Size Integer. By default, Element Data Sizes can be encoded in
lengths from one octet to eight octets, although Element Data Sizes of greater lengths
 be
used if the octet length of the longest Element Data Size of the EBML Document is declared in the
EBMLMaxSizeLength Element of the EBML Header (see Section 11.2.5). Unlike the VINT_DATA of
the Element ID, the VINT_DATA component of the Element Data Size is not mandated to be
encoded at the shortest valid length. For example, an Element Data Size with binary encoding of
1011 1111 or a binary encoding of 0100 0000 0011 1111 are both valid Element Data Sizes and
both store a semantically equal value (both 0b00000000111111 and 0b0111111, the VINT_DATA
sections of the examples, represent the integer 63).

MAY

Although an Element ID with all VINT_DATA bits set to zero is invalid, an Element Data Size with
all VINT_DATA bits set to zero is allowed for EBML Element Types that do not mandate a nonzero
length (see Section 7). An Element Data Size with all VINT_DATA bits set to zero indicates that the
Element Data is zero octets in length. Such an EBML Element is referred to as an Empty Element.
If an Empty Element has a default value declared, then the EBML Reader
value of the Empty Element as the default value. If an Empty Element has no default value
declared, then the EBML Reader
EBML Element Type of the Element ID, 0 for numbers and an empty string for strings.

 use the value of the Empty Element for the corresponding

 interpret the

MUST

MUST

6.2.  Unknown Data Size

An Element Data Size with all VINT_DATA bits set to one is reserved as an indicator that the size
of the EBML Element is unknown. The only reserved value for the VINT_DATA of Element Data
Size is all bits set to one. An EBML Element with an unknown Element Data Size is referred to as
an Unknown-Sized Element. Only a Master Element is allowed to be of unknown size, and it can
only be so if the unknownsizeallowed attribute of its EBML Schema is set to true (see Section
11.1.6.10).

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

The use of Unknown-Sized Elements allows an EBML Element to be written and read before the
size of the EBML Element is known. Unknown-Sized Elements
 only be used if the Element
Data Size is not known before the Element Data is written, such as in some cases of
datastreaming. The end of an Unknown-Sized Element is determined by whichever comes ﬁrst:

MUST

•

Any EBML Element that is a valid Parent Element of the Unknown-Sized Element according
to the EBML Schema, Global Elements excluded.

•

Any valid EBML Element according to the EBML Schema, Global Elements excluded, that is
not a Descendant Element of the Unknown-Sized Element but shares a common direct
parent, such as a Top-Level Element.

•

Any EBML Element that is a valid Root Element according to the EBML Schema, Global
Elements excluded.

•

The end of the Parent Element with a known size has been reached.

•

The end of the EBML Document, either when reaching the end of the ﬁle or because a new
EBML Header started.

Consider an Unknown-Sized Element whose EBML path is \root\level1\level2\elt. When
reading a new Element ID, assuming the EBML Path of that new Element is valid, here are some
possible and impossible ways that this new Element is ending elt:

EBML Path of new
element

Status

\root\level1\level2

Ends the Unknown-Sized Element, as it is a new Parent Element

\root\level1

Ends the Unknown-Sized Element, as it is a new Parent Element

\root

\root2

\root\level1\level2
\other

\root\level1\level2
\elt

\root\level1\level2
\elt\inside

\root\level1\level2
\elt\<global>

Ends the Unknown-Sized Element, as it is a new Root Element

Ends the Unknown-Sized Element, as it is a new Root Element

Ends the Unknown-Sized Element, as they share the same parent

Ends the Unknown-Sized Element, as they share the same parent

Doesn't end the Unknown-Sized Element; it's a child of elt

Global Element is valid; it's a child of elt

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

EBML Path of new
element

Status

\root\level1\level2
\<global>

Global Element cannot be interpreted with this path; while
parsing elt, a Global Element can only be a child of elt

Table 5: Examples of determining the end of an Unknown-Sized Element

6.3.  Data Size Values

For Element Data Sizes encoded at octet lengths from one to eight, Table 6 depicts the range of
possible values that can be encoded as an Element Data Size. An Element Data Size with an octet
length of 8 is able to express a size of 256-2 or 72,057,594,037,927,934 octets (or about 72
petabytes). The maximum possible value that can be stored as Element Data Size is referred to as
VINTMAX.

Octet Length

Possible Value Range

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

0 to 27 - 2

0 to 214 - 2

0 to 221 - 2

0 to 228 - 2

0 to 235 - 2

0 to 242 - 2

0 to 249 - 2

0 to 256 - 2

Table 6: Possible range of values that can
be stored in VINTs, by octet length

If the length of Element Data equals 2n*7-1, then the octet length of the Element Data Size
MUST
be at least n+1. This rule prevents an Element Data Size from being expressed as the unknown-
size value. Table 7 clariﬁes this rule by showing a valid and invalid expression of an Element
Data Size with a VINT_DATA of 127 (which is equal to 21*7-1) and 16,383 (which is equal to
22*7-1).

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

VINT_WIDTH VINT_MARKER

VINT_DATA Element Data Size Status

1

1

1

1

1111111

Reserved (meaning
Unknown)

00000001111111

Valid (meaning 127 octets)

000000000000001111111

Valid (meaning 127 octets)

11111111111111

Reserved (meaning
Unknown)

1

000000011111111111111

Valid (16,383 octets)

0

00

0

00

Table 7: Demonstration of VINT_DATA reservation for VINTs of unknown size

7.  EBML Element Types

EBML Elements are deﬁned by an EBML Schema (see Section 11.1), which
the following EBML Element Types for each EBML Element. An EBML Element Type deﬁnes a
concept of storing data within an EBML Element that describes such characteristics as length,
endianness, and deﬁnition.

 declare one of

MUST

EBML Elements that are deﬁned as a Signed Integer Element, Unsigned Integer Element, Float
Element, or Date Element use big-endian storage.

7.1.  Signed Integer Element

A Signed Integer Element
not deﬁned to have a default value, then a Signed Integer Element with a zero-octet length
represents an integer value of zero.

 declare a length from zero to eight octets. If the EBML Element is

MUST

A Signed Integer Element stores an integer (meaning that it can be written without a fractional
component) that could be negative, positive, or zero. Signed Integers are stored with two's
complement notation with the leftmost bit being the sign bit. Because EBML limits Signed
Integers to 8 octets in length, a Signed Integer Element stores a number from
-9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to +9,223,372,036,854,775,807.

7.2.  Unsigned Integer Element

An Unsigned Integer Element
Element is not deﬁned to have a default value, then an Unsigned Integer Element with a zero-
octet length represents an integer value of zero.

 declare a length from zero to eight octets. If the EBML

MUST

An Unsigned Integer Element stores an integer (meaning that it can be written without a
fractional component) that could be positive or zero. Because EBML limits Unsigned Integers to 8
octets in length, an Unsigned Integer Element stores a number from 0 to
18,446,744,073,709,551,615.

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

7.3.  Float Element

MUST

A Float Element
 declare a length of either zero octets (0 bit), four octets (32 bit), or eight
octets (64 bit). If the EBML Element is not deﬁned to have a default value, then a Float Element
with a zero-octet length represents a numerical value of zero.

A Float Element stores a ﬂoating-point number in the 32-bit and 64-bit binary interchange
format, as deﬁned in

[IEEE.754]

.

7.4.  String Element

 declare a length in octets from zero to VINTMAX. If the EBML Element is
A String Element
not deﬁned to have a default value, then a String Element with a zero-octet length represents an
empty string.

MUST

A String Element
[RFC0020]

MUST

 either be empty (zero-length) or contain printable ASCII characters

 in the range of 0x20 to 0x7E, with an exception made for termination (see Section 13).

7.5.  UTF-8 Element

A UTF-8 Element
 declare a length in octets from zero to VINTMAX. If the EBML Element is
not deﬁned to have a default value, then a UTF-8 Element with a zero-octet length represents an
empty string.

MUST

A UTF-8 Element contains only a valid Unicode string as deﬁned in
made for termination (see Section 13).

[RFC3629]

, with an exception

7.6.  Date Element

MUST

A Date Element
not deﬁned to have a default value, then a Date Element with a zero-octet length represents a
timestamp of 2001-01-01T00:00:00.000000000 UTC

 declare a length of either zero octets or eight octets. If the EBML Element is

[RFC3339]

.

The Date Element stores an integer in the same format as the Signed Integer Element that
expresses a point in time referenced in nanoseconds from the precise beginning of the third
millennium of the Gregorian Calendar in Coordinated Universal Time (also known as
2001-01-01T00:00:00.000000000 UTC). This provides a possible expression of time from
1708-09-11T00:12:44.854775808 UTC to 2293-04-11T11:47:16.854775807 UTC.

7.7.  Master Element

A Master Element
length. See Section 6 for rules that apply to elements of unknown length.

 declare a length in octets from zero to VINTMAX or be of unknown

MUST

The Master Element contains zero or more other elements. EBML Elements contained within a
Master Element
EBMLFullPath of the Master Element Element Path (see Section 11.1.6.2). Element Data stored

 have the EBMLParentPath of their Element Path equal to the

MUST

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

SHOULD

within Master Elements
data that is not part of an EBML Element. The EBML Schema identiﬁes what Element IDs are
valid within the Master Elements for that version of the EBML Document Type. Any data
contained within a Master Element that is not part of a Child Element

 only consist of EBML Elements and

 be ignored.

SHOULD NOT

MUST

 contain any

7.8.  Binary Element

A Binary Element

MUST

 declare a length in octets from zero to VINTMAX.

The contents of a Binary Element should not be interpreted by the EBML Reader.

8.  EBML Document

An EBML Document is composed of only two components, an EBML Header and an EBML Body.
An EBML Document
 start with an EBML Header that declares signiﬁcant characteristics of
the entire EBML Body. An EBML Document consists of EBML Elements and
any data that is not part of an EBML Element.

MUST NOT

 contain

MUST

8.1.  EBML Header

The EBML Header is a declaration that provides processing instructions and identiﬁcation of the
EBML Body. The EBML Header of an EBML Document is analogous to the XML Declaration of an
XML Document.

The EBML Header documents the EBML Schema (also known as the EBML DocType) that is used
to semantically interpret the structure and meaning of the EBML Document. Additionally, the
EBML Header documents the versions of both EBML and the EBML Schema that were used to
write the EBML Document and the versions required to read the EBML Document.

MUST

The EBML Header
 contain a single Master Element with an Element Name of EBML and
Element ID of 0x1A45DFA3 (see Section 11.2.1); the Master Element may have any number of
additional EBML Elements within it. The EBML Header of an EBML Document that uses an
EBMLVersion of 1

 only contain EBML Elements that are deﬁned as part of this document.

MUST

Elements within an EBML Header can be at most 4 octets long, except for the EBML Element with
Element Name EBML and Element ID 0x1A45DFA3 (see Section 11.2.1); this Element can be up to 8
octets long.

8.2.  EBML Body

All data of an EBML Document following the EBML Header is the EBML Body. The end of the
EBML Body, as well as the end of the EBML Document that contains the EBML Body, is reached at
whichever comes ﬁrst: the beginning of a new EBML Header at the Root Level or the end of the
ﬁle. This document deﬁnes precisely which EBML Elements are to be used within the EBML
Header but does not name or deﬁne which EBML Elements are to be used within the EBML Body.
The deﬁnition of which EBML Elements are to be used within the EBML Body is deﬁned by an
EBML Schema.

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

Within the EBML Body, the maximum octet length allowed for any Element ID is set by the
EBMLMaxIDLength Element of the EBML Header, and the maximum octet length allowed for any
Element Data Size is set by the EBMLMaxSizeLength Element of the EBML Header.

9.  EBML Stream

An EBML Stream is a ﬁle that consists of one or more EBML Documents that are concatenated
together. An occurrence of an EBML Header at the Root Level marks the beginning of an EBML
Document.

10.  EBML Versioning

An EBML Document handles 2 diﬀerent versions: the version of the EBML Header and the
version of the EBML Body. Both versions are meant to be backward compatible.

10.1.  EBML Header Version

The version of the EBML Header is found in EBMLVersion. An EBML parser can read an EBML
Header if it can read either the EBMLVersion version or a version equal or higher than the one
found in EBMLReadVersion.

10.2.  EBML Document Version

The version of the EBML Body is found in EBMLDocTypeVersion. A parser for the particular
DocType format can read the EBML Document if it can read either the EBMLDocTypeVersion
version of that format or a version equal or higher than the one found in
EBMLDocTypeReadVersion.

11.  Elements semantics

11.1.  EBML Schema

[XML]

 that deﬁnes the properties,

An EBML Schema is a well-formed XML Document
arrangement, and usage of EBML Elements that compose a speciﬁc EBML Document Type. The
relationship of an EBML Schema to an EBML Document is analogous to the relationship of an
XML Schema
 be clearly
associated with one or more EBML Document Types. An EBML Document Type is identiﬁed by a
string stored within the EBML Header in the DocType Element -- for example, Matroska or WebM
(see Section 11.2.6). The DocType value for an EBML Document Type
 be unique, persistent,
and described in the IANA registry (see Section 17.2).

 to an XML Document

. An EBML Schema

[XML-SCHEMA]

[XML]

MUST

MUST

An EBML Schema
Element) that occurs exactly once within an EBML Document. The Void Element
at Root Level but is not a Root Element (see Section 11.3.2).

 declare exactly one EBML Element at Root Level (referred to as the Root
 also occur

MUST

MAY

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

The EBML Schema
document Global Elements that are deﬁned by this document (namely, the Void Element and the
CRC-32 Element).

 document all Elements of the EBML Body. The EBML Schema does not

MUST

The EBML Schema
Header for the purpose of resynchronization.

MUST NOT

 use the Element ID 0x1A45DFA3, which is reserved for the EBML

MAY

 constrain the use of EBML Header Elements (see Section 11.2) by adding

An EBML Schema
or constraining that Element's range attribute. For example, an EBML Schema
EBMLMaxSizeLength to a maximum value of 8 or
support a value of 1. If an EBML Schema adopts the EBML Header Element as is, then it is not
required to document that Element within the EBML Schema. If an EBML Schema constrains the
 be documented within an <element>
range of an EBML Header Element, then that Element
node of the EBML Schema. This document provides an example of an EBML Schema; see Section
11.1.1.

 constrain the EBMLVersion to only

 constrain the

MUST

MAY

MAY

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

11.1.1.  EBML Schema Example

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<EBMLSchema xmlns="urn:ietf:rfc:8794"
  docType="files-in-ebml-demo" version="1">
 <!-- constraints to the range of two EBML Header Elements -->
 <element name="EBMLReadVersion" path="\EBML\EBMLReadVersion"
   id="0x42F7" minOccurs="1" maxOccurs="1" range="1" default="1"
   type="uinteger"/>
 <element name="EBMLMaxSizeLength"
   path="\EBML\EBMLMaxSizeLength" id="0x42F3" minOccurs="1"
   maxOccurs="1" range="8" default="8" type="uinteger"/>
 <!-- Root Element-->
 <element name="Files" path="\Files" id="0x1946696C"
   type="master">
  <documentation lang="en"
    purpose="definition">Container of data and
  attributes representing one or many files.</documentation>
 </element>
 <element name="File" path="\Files\File" id="0x6146"
   type="master" minOccurs="1">
  <documentation lang="en" purpose="definition">
    An attached file.
  </documentation>
 </element>
 <element name="FileName" path="\Files\File\FileName"
   id="0x614E" type="utf-8"
   minOccurs="1">
  <documentation lang="en" purpose="definition">
    Filename of the attached file.
  </documentation>
 </element>
 <element name="MimeType" path="\Files\File\MimeType"
   id="0x464D" type="string"
     minOccurs="1">
  <documentation lang="en" purpose="definition">
    MIME type of the file.
  </documentation>
 </element>
 <element name="ModificationTimestamp"
   path="\Files\File\ModificationTimestamp" id="0x4654"
   type="date" minOccurs="1">
  <documentation lang="en" purpose="definition">
    Modification timestamp of the file.
  </documentation>
 </element>
 <element name="Data" path="\Files\File\Data" id="0x4664"
   type="binary" minOccurs="1">
  <documentation lang="en" purpose="definition">
    The data of the file.
  </documentation>
 </element>
</EBMLSchema>

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

11.1.2.  <EBMLSchema> Element

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath

[XPath]

 of the <EBMLSchema> element is /EBMLSchema.

When used as an XML Document, the EBML Schema
element. The <EBMLSchema> element can contain <element> subelements.

MUST

 use <EBMLSchema> as the top-level

11.1.3.  <EBMLSchema> Namespace

The namespace URI for elements of the EBML Schema is a URN as deﬁned by
the namespace identiﬁer 'ietf' deﬁned by
urn:ietf:rfc:8794.

 and extended by

[RFC2648]

[RFC3688]

[RFC8141]

 that uses

. This URN is

11.1.4.  <EBMLSchema> Attributes

Within an EBML Schema, the <EBMLSchema> element uses the following attributes to deﬁne an
EBML Element:

11.1.4.1.  docType

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @docType attribute is /EBMLSchema/@docType.

The docType lists the oﬃcial name of the EBML Document Type that is deﬁned by the EBML
Schema; for example, <EBMLSchema docType="matroska">.

The docType attribute is

REQUIRED

 within the <EBMLSchema> Element.

11.1.4.2.  version

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @version attribute is /EBMLSchema/@version.

The version lists a nonnegative integer that speciﬁes the version of the docType documented by
the EBML Schema. Unlike XML Schemas, an EBML Schema documents all versions of a docType's
deﬁnition rather than using separate EBML Schemas for each version of a docType. EBML
Elements may be introduced and deprecated by using the minver and maxver attributes of
<element>.

The version attribute is

REQUIRED

 within the <EBMLSchema> Element.

11.1.4.3.  ebml

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @ebml attribute is /EBMLSchema/@ebml.

The ebml attribute is a positive integer that speciﬁes the version of the EBML Header (see Section
11.2.2) used by the EBML Schema. If the attribute is omitted, the EBML Header version is 1.

11.1.5.  <element> Element

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the <element> element is /EBMLSchema/element.

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

Each <element> deﬁnes one EBML Element through the use of several attributes that are deﬁned
in Section 11.1.6. EBML Schemas
MUST NOT

 conﬂict with the deﬁnitions of the <element> attributes deﬁned within this document.

 contain additional attributes to extend the semantics but

MAY

The <element> nodes contain a description of the meaning and use of the EBML Element stored
within one or more <documentation> subelements, followed by optional
<implementation_note> subelements, followed by zero or one <restriction> subelement,
followed by optional <extension> subelements. All <element> nodes
the <EBMLSchema>.

 be subelements of

MUST

11.1.6.  <element> Attributes

Within an EBML Schema, the <element> uses the following attributes to deﬁne an EBML
Element:

11.1.6.1.  name

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @name attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/@name.

The name provides the human-readable name of the EBML Element. The value of the name
MUST
the name

 be in the form of characters "A" to "Z", "a" to "z", "0" to "9", "-", and ".". The ﬁrst character of

 be in the form of an "A" to "Z", "a" to "z", or "0" to "9" character.

MUST

The name attribute is

REQUIRED

.

11.1.6.2.  path

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @path attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/@path.

MUST

The path deﬁnes the allowed storage locations of the EBML Element within an EBML Document.
 be deﬁned with the full hierarchy of EBML Elements separated with a \. The top
This path
EBML Element in the path hierarchy is the ﬁrst in the value. The syntax of the path attribute is
deﬁned using this Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF)
update

 with the case-sensitive

[RFC5234]

[RFC7405]

 notation:

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

The path attribute is

REQUIRED

.

EBMLFullPath           = EBMLParentPath EBMLElement

EBMLParentPath         = PathDelimiter [EBMLParents]

EBMLParents            = 0*IntermediatePathAtom EBMLLastParent
IntermediatePathAtom   = EBMLPathAtom / GlobalPlaceholder
EBMLLastParent         = EBMLPathAtom / GlobalPlaceholder

EBMLPathAtom           = [IsRecursive] EBMLAtomName PathDelimiter
EBMLElement            = [IsRecursive] EBMLAtomName

PathDelimiter          = "\"
IsRecursive            = "+"
EBMLAtomName           = ALPHA / DIGIT 0*EBMLNameChar
EBMLNameChar           = ALPHA / DIGIT / "-" / "."

GlobalPlaceholder      = "(" GlobalParentOccurrence "\)"
GlobalParentOccurrence = [PathMinOccurrence] "-" [PathMaxOccurrence]
PathMinOccurrence      = 1*DIGIT ; no upper limit
PathMaxOccurrence      = 1*DIGIT ; no upper limit

The *, (, and ) symbols are interpreted as deﬁned in

[RFC5234]
.

The EBMLAtomName of the EBMLElement part
EBML Schema. If the EBMLElement part contains an IsRecursive part, the EBML Element can
occur within itself recursively (see Section 11.1.6.11).

 be equal to the @name attribute of the

MUST

The starting PathDelimiter of EBMLParentPath corresponds to the root of the EBML Document.

The @path value
@path
MUST NOT
EBMLParentPath as this @path.

 be unique within the EBML Schema. The @id value corresponding to this

MUST
 be deﬁned for use within another EBML Element with the same

A path with a GlobalPlaceholder as the EBMLLastParent deﬁnes a Global Element; see Section
11.3. If the element has no EBMLLastParent part, or the EBMLLastParent part is not a
GlobalPlaceholder, then the Element is not a Global Element.

The GlobalParentOccurrence part is interpreted as the number of valid EBMLPathAtom parts
that can replace the GlobalPlaceholder in the path. PathMinOccurrence represents the minimum
number of EBMLPathAtoms required to replace the GlobalPlaceholder. PathMaxOccurrence
represents the maximum number of EBMLPathAtoms possible to replace the GlobalPlaceholder.

If PathMinOccurrence is not present, then that GlobalParentOccurrence has a
PathMinOccurrence value of 0. If PathMaxOccurrence is not present, then there is no upper
bound for the permitted number of EBMLPathAtoms possible to replace the GlobalPlaceholder.
PathMaxOccurrence

 have the value 0, as it would mean no EBMLPathAtom can

MUST NOT

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

replace the GlobalPlaceholder, and the EBMLFullPath would be the same without that
GlobalPlaceholder part. PathMaxOccurrence
PathMinOccurrence.

 be bigger than, or equal to,

MUST

For example, in \a\(0-1\)global, the Element path \a\x\global corresponds to an
EBMLPathAtom occurrence of 1. The Element \a\x\y\global corresponds to an EBMLPathAtom
occurrence of 2, etc. In those cases, \a\x or \a\x\y
 be valid paths to be able to contain the
element global.

MUST

Consider another EBML Path, \a\(1-\)global. There has to be at least one EBMLPathAtom
between the \a\ part and global. So the global EBML Element cannot be found inside the \a
EBML Element, as it means the resulting path \a\global has no EBMLPathAtom between the \a\
and global. However, the global EBML Element can be found inside the \a\b EBML Element,
because the resulting path, \a\b\global, has one EBMLPathAtom between the \a\ and global.
Alternatively, it can be found inside the \a\b\c EBML Element (two EBMLPathAtom), or inside
the \a\b\c\d EBML Element (three EBMLPathAtom), etc.

Consider another EBML Path, \a\(0-1\)global. There has to be at most one EBMLPathAtom
between the \a\ part and global. So the global EBML Element can be found inside either the \a
EBML Element (0 EBMLPathAtom replacing GlobalPlaceholder) or the \a\b EBML Element (one
replacement EBMLPathAtom). But it cannot be found inside the \a\b\c EBML Element, because
the resulting path, \a\b\c\global, has two EBMLPathAtom between \a\ and global.

11.1.6.3.  id

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @id attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/@id.

The Element ID is encoded as a Variable-Size Integer. It is read and stored in big-endian order. In
the EBML Schema, it is expressed in hexadecimal notation preﬁxed by a 0x. To reduce the risk of
false positives while parsing EBML Streams, the Element IDs of the Root Element and Top-Level
Elements
SHOULD
directly under the Root Level
edits to EBML Documents; for instance, the Void Element uses an Element ID with a length of one
octet to allow its usage in more writing and editing scenarios.

 be at least 4 octets in length. Element IDs deﬁned for use at Root Level or

 use shorter octet lengths to facilitate padding and optimize

MAY

The Element ID of any Element found within an EBML Document
@path value of its corresponding EBML Schema, but a separate instance of that Element ID value
deﬁned by the EBML Schema
deﬁned to use the same @id value, then the @path values of those Elements
same EBMLParentPath. Elements
common Parent Elements could be an Unknown-Sized Element.

 share the
 be deﬁned to use the same @id value if one of their

 occur within a diﬀerent @path. If more than one Element is

 only match a single

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST

MAY

The id attribute is

REQUIRED

.

11.1.6.4.  minOccurs

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @minOccurs attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/
@minOccurs.

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

minOccurs is a nonnegative integer expressing the minimum permitted number of occurrences
of this EBML Element within its Parent Element.

Each instance of the Parent Element
Element. If the EBML Element has an empty EBMLParentPath, then minOccurs refers to
constraints on the occurrence of the EBML Element within the EBML Document. EBML Elements
with minOccurs set to "1" that also have a default value (see Section 11.1.6.8) declared are not
REQUIRED

 contain at least this many instances of this EBML

 to be interpreted; see Section 11.1.19.

 to be stored but are

REQUIRED

MUST

An EBML Element deﬁned with a minOccurs value greater than zero is called a Mandatory EBML
Element.

The minOccurs attribute is
Element has a minOccurs value of 0.

OPTIONAL

. If the minOccurs attribute is not present, then that EBML

The semantic meaning of minOccurs within an EBML Schema is analogous to the meaning of
minOccurs within an XML Schema.

11.1.6.5.  maxOccurs

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @maxOccurs attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/
@maxOccurs.

maxOccurs is a nonnegative integer expressing the maximum permitted number of occurrences
of this EBML Element within its Parent Element.

Each instance of the Parent Element
Element, including the unwritten mandatory element with a default value; see Section 11.1.19. If
the EBML Element has an empty EBMLParentPath, then maxOccurs refers to constraints on the
occurrence of the EBML Element within the EBML Document.

 contain at most this many instances of this EBML

MUST

The maxOccurs attribute is
upper bound for the permitted number of occurrences of this EBML Element within its Parent
Element or within the EBML Document, depending on whether or not the EBMLParentPath of
the EBML Element is empty.

. If the maxOccurs attribute is not present, then there is no

OPTIONAL

The semantic meaning of maxOccurs within an EBML Schema is analogous to the meaning of
maxOccurs within an XML Schema; when it is not present, it's similar to
xml:maxOccurs="unbounded" in an XML Schema.

11.1.6.6.  range

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @range attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/@range.

A numerical range for EBML Elements that are of numerical types (Unsigned Integer, Signed
Integer, Float, and Date). If speciﬁed, the value of the EBML Element
MUST
range. See Section 11.1.6.6.1 for rules applied to expression of range values.

 be within the deﬁned

The range attribute is
the type attribute is valid.

OPTIONAL

. If the range attribute is not present, then any value legal for

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

11.1.6.6.1.  Expression of range

MUST

 only be used with EBML Elements that are either signed integer,

The range attribute
unsigned integer, ﬂoat, or date. The expression deﬁnes the upper, lower, exact, or excluded value
of the EBML Element and optionally an upper boundary value combined with a lower boundary.
The range expression may contain whitespace (using the ASCII 0x20 character) for readability,
but whitespace within a range expression
MUST NOT

 convey meaning.

To set a ﬁxed value for the range, the value is used as the attribute value. For example, 1234
means the EBML element always has the value 1234. The value can be preﬁxed with not to
indicate that the ﬁxed value
the Element can use all values of its type except 1234.

 be used for that Element. For example, not 1234 means

MUST NOT

The > sign is used for an exclusive lower boundary, and the >= sign is used for an inclusive lower
boundary. For example, >3 means the Element value
means the Element value
11.1.18.

 be greater than 3, and >=0x1p+0
 be greater than or equal to the ﬂoating value 1.0; see Section

MUST

MUST

The < sign is used for an exclusive upper boundary, and the <= sign is used for an inclusive upper
boundary. For example, <-2 means the Element value
Element value

 be less than -2, and <=10 means the

 be less than or equal to 10.

MUST

MUST

The lower and upper bounds can be combined into an expression to form a closed boundary. The
lower boundary comes ﬁrst, followed by the upper boundary, separated by a comma. For
example, >3,<= 20 means the Element value

 be greater than 3 and less than or equal to 20.

MUST

MUST

A special form of lower and upper bounds using the - separator is possible, meaning the Element
value
second value. For example, 1-10 is equivalent to >=1,<=10. If the upper boundary is negative, the
range attribute

 be greater than, or equal to, the ﬁrst value and

 be less than or equal to the

 only use the latter form.

MUST

MUST

11.1.6.7.  length

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @length attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/@length.

The length attribute is a value to express the valid length of the Element Data as written,
measured in octets. The length provides a constraint in addition to the Length value of the
deﬁnition of the corresponding EBML Element Type. This length
 be expressed as either a
nonnegative integer or a range (see Section 11.1.6.6.1) that consists of only nonnegative integers
and valid operators.

MUST

The length attribute is
then that EBML Element is only limited in length by the deﬁnition of the associated EBML
Element Type.

. If the length attribute is not present for that EBML Element,

OPTIONAL

11.1.6.8.  default

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @default attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/
@default.

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

If an Element is mandatory (has a minOccurs value greater than zero) but not written within its
Parent Element or stored as an Empty Element, then the EBML Reader of the EBML Document
 semantically interpret the EBML Element as present with this speciﬁed default value for
MUST
the EBML Element. An unwritten mandatory Element with a declared default value is
semantically equivalent to that Element if written with the default value stored as the Element
Data. EBML Elements that are Master Elements
Elements with a minOccurs value greater than 1

 declare a default value. EBML
 declare a default value.

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

The default attribute is

.
OPTIONAL

11.1.6.9.  type

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @type attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/@type.

MUST

 be set to one of the following values: integer (signed integer), uinteger

The type
(unsigned integer), float, string, date, utf-8, master, or binary. The content of each type is
deﬁned in Section 7.

The type attribute is

REQUIRED

.

11.1.6.10.  unknownsizeallowed

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @unknownsizeallowed attribute is /EBMLSchema/
element/@unknownsizeallowed.

This attribute is a boolean to express whether an EBML Element is permitted to be an Unknown-
Sized Element (having all VINT_DATA bits of Element Data Size set to 1). EBML Elements that are
not Master Elements
deﬁned with an unknownsizeallowed attribute set to 1
attribute of its Parent Element set to 1.

 set unknownsizeallowed to true. An EBML Element that is

 also have the unknownsizeallowed

MUST NOT

MUST

An EBML Element with the unknownsizeallowed attribute set to 1
attribute set to 1.

MUST NOT

 have its recursive

The unknownsizeallowed attribute is
used, then that EBML Element is not allowed to use an unknown Element Data Size.

. If the unknownsizeallowed attribute is not

OPTIONAL

11.1.6.11.  recursive

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @recursive attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/
@recursive.

This attribute is a boolean to express whether an EBML Element is permitted to be stored
recursively. If it is allowed, the EBML Element
has the same Element ID, which itself can be stored in an EBML Element that has the same
Element ID, and so on. EBML Elements that are not Master Elements
true.

MUST NOT

 be stored within another EBML Element that

 set recursive to

MAY

If the EBMLElement part of the @path contains an IsRecursive part, then the recursive value
MUST

 be true; otherwise, it

 be false.

MUST

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

An EBML Element with the recursive attribute set to 1
attribute set to 1.

MUST NOT

 have its unknownsizeallowed

The recursive attribute is
Element
MUST NOT

 be used recursively.

OPTIONAL

. If the recursive attribute is not present, then the EBML

11.1.6.12.  recurring

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @recurring attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/
@recurring.

This attribute is a boolean to express whether or not an EBML Element is deﬁned as an
Identically Recurring Element; see Section 11.1.17.

The recurring attribute is
Element is not an Identically Recurring Element.

OPTIONAL

. If the recurring attribute is not present, then the EBML

11.1.6.13.  minver

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @minver attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/@minver.

The minver (minimum version) attribute stores a nonnegative integer that represents the ﬁrst
version of the docType to support the EBML Element.

The minver attribute is
has a minimum version of "1".

OPTIONAL

. If the minver attribute is not present, then the EBML Element

11.1.6.14.  maxver

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @maxver attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/@maxver.

The maxver (maximum version) attribute stores a nonnegative integer that represents the last or
most recent version of the docType to support the element. maxver
equal to minver.

 be greater than or

MUST

The maxver attribute is
has a maximum version equal to the value stored in the version attribute of <EBMLSchema>.

. If the maxver attribute is not present, then the EBML Element

OPTIONAL

11.1.7.  <documentation> Element

Within an EBML Schema, the XPaths of the <documentation> elements are /EBMLSchema/
element/documentation and /EBMLSchema/element/restriction/enum/documentation.

The <documentation> element provides additional information about EBML Elements or
enumeration values. Within the <documentation> element, the following XHTML
elements

 be used: <a>, <br>, and <strong>.

MAY

[XHTML]

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

11.1.8.  <documentation> Attributes

11.1.8.1.  lang

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @lang attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/
documentation/@lang.

The lang attribute is set to the value from
documentation.

[RFC5646]

 of the language of the element's

The lang attribute is

.
OPTIONAL

11.1.8.2.  purpose

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @purpose attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/
documentation/@purpose.

A purpose attribute distinguishes the meaning of the documentation. Values for the
<documentation> subelement's purpose attribute
8.

MUST

 include one of the values listed in Table

value of purpose
attribute

deﬁnition

deﬁnition

rationale

usage notes

references

A "deﬁnition" is recommended for every deﬁned EBML Element. This
documentation explains the semantic meaning of the EBML Element.

An explanation about the reason or catalyst for the deﬁnition of the
Element.

Recommended practices or guidelines for both reading, writing, or
interpreting the Element.

Informational references to support the contextualization and
understanding of the value of the Element.

Table 8: Deﬁnitions of the permitted values for the purpose attribute of the documentation Element

The purpose attribute is

.
REQUIRED

11.1.9.  <implementation_note> Element

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the <implementation_note> element is /EBMLSchema/
element/implementation_note.

In some cases within an EBML Document Type, the attributes of the <element> element are not
suﬃcient to clearly communicate how the deﬁned EBML Element is intended to be implemented.
For instance, one EBML Element might only be mandatory if another EBML Element is present.
As another example, the default value of an EBML Element might be derived from a related
Element's content. In these cases where the Element's deﬁnition is conditional or advanced

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

implementation notes are needed, one or many <implementation_note> elements can be used
to store that information. The <implementation_note> refers to a speciﬁc attribute of the parent
<element> as expressed by the note_attribute attribute (see Section 11.1.10.1).

11.1.10.  <implementation_note> Attributes

11.1.10.1.  note_attribute

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @note_attribute attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/
implementation_note/@note_attribute.

The note_attribute attribute references which of the attributes of the <element> the
<implementation_note> relates to. The note_attribute attribute
following values (corresponding to that attribute of the parent <element>): minOccurs,
maxOccurs, range, length, default, minver, or maxver. The <implementation_note>
supersede the parent <element>'s attribute that is named in the note_attribute attribute. An
<element>
note_attribute.

 have more than one <implementation_note> of the same

 be set to one of the

SHALL NOT

SHALL

MUST

The note_attribute attribute is

REQUIRED

.

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

11.1.10.2.  <implementation_note> Example

The following fragment of an EBML Schema demonstrates how an <implementation_note> is
used. In this case, an EBML Schema documents a list of items that are described with an optional
cost. The Currency Element uses an <implementation_note> to say that the Currency Element is
REQUIRED

 if the Cost Element is set, otherwise not.

<element name="Items" path="\Items" id="0x4025" type="master"
  minOccurs="1" maxOccurs="1">
  <documentation lang="en" purpose="definition">
    A set of items.
  </documentation>
</element>
<element name="Item" path="\Items\Item" id="0x4026"
  type="master">
  <documentation lang="en" purpose="definition">
    An item.
  </documentation>
</element>
<element name="Cost" path="\Items\Item\Cost" id="0x4024"
  type="float" maxOccurs="1">
  <documentation lang="en" purpose="definition">
    The cost of the item, if any.
  </documentation>
</element>
<element name="Currency" path="\Items\Item\Currency" id="0x403F"
  type="string" maxOccurs="1">
  <documentation lang="en" purpose="definition">
    The currency of the item's cost.
  </documentation>
  <implementation_note note_attribute="minOccurs">
    Currency MUST be set (minOccurs=1) if the associated Item stores
    a Cost, else Currency MAY be unset (minOccurs=0).
  </implementation_note>
</element>

11.1.11.  <restriction> Element

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the <restriction> element is /EBMLSchema/element/
restriction.

The <restriction> element provides information about restrictions to the allowable values for
the EBML Element, which are listed in <enum> elements.

11.1.12.  <enum> Element

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the <enum> element is /EBMLSchema/element/
restriction/enum.

The <enum> element stores a list of values allowed for storage in the EBML Element. The values
 match the type of the EBML Element (for example, <enum value="Yes"> cannot be a valid
MUST
value for an EBML Element that is deﬁned as an unsigned integer). An <enum> element
 also
store <documentation> elements to further describe the <enum>.

MAY

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

11.1.13.  <enum> Attributes

11.1.13.1.  label

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @label attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/
restriction/enum/@label.

The label provides a concise expression for human consumption that describes what the value of
<enum> represents.

The label attribute is

.
OPTIONAL

11.1.13.2.  value

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @value attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/
restriction/enum/@value.

The value represents data that

MAY

 be stored within the EBML Element.

The value attribute is

.
REQUIRED

11.1.14.  <extension> Element

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the <extension> element is /EBMLSchema/element/
extension.

The <extension> element provides an unconstrained element to contain information about the
associated EBML <element>, which is undeﬁned by this document but
associated EBML Document Type. The <extension> element
also
well-formed XML Document. All <extension> elements

 contain any other attribute or subelement as long as the EBML Schema remains as a

 be subelements of the <element>.

 contain a type attribute and

 be deﬁned by the

MUST

MUST

MAY

MAY

11.1.15.  <extension> Attributes

11.1.15.1.  type

Within an EBML Schema, the XPath of the @type attribute is /EBMLSchema/element/extension/
@type.

The type attribute should reference a name or identiﬁer of the project or authority associated
with the contents of the <extension> element.

The type attribute is

REQUIRED

.

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

11.1.16.  XML Schema for EBML Schema

The following provides an XML Schema
Schema described in Section 11.1.

[XML-SCHEMA]

 for facilitating veriﬁcation of an EBML

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<xs:schema xmlns="urn:ietf:rfc:8794"
  targetNamespace="urn:ietf:rfc:8794"
  xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
  xmlns:xhtml="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  elementFormDefault="qualified" version="01">

  <!-- for HTML in comments -->
  <xs:import namespace="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
    schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml11.xsd"/>

  <xs:element name="EBMLSchema" type="EBMLSchemaType"/>

  <xs:complexType name="EBMLSchemaType">
    <xs:sequence>
      <xs:element name="element" type="elementType"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
    </xs:sequence>
    <xs:attribute name="docType" use="required"/>
    <xs:attribute name="version" use="required" type="xs:integer"/>
    <xs:attribute name="ebml" type="xs:positiveInteger"
      default="1"/>
  </xs:complexType>

  <xs:complexType name="elementType">
    <xs:sequence>
      <xs:element name="documentation" type="documentationType"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
      <xs:element name="implementation_note" type="noteType"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
      <xs:element name="restriction" type="restrictionType"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="1"/>
      <xs:element name="extension" type="extensionType"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
    </xs:sequence>
    <xs:attribute name="name" use="required">
      <xs:simpleType>
        <xs:restriction base="xs:string">
          <xs:pattern value="[0-9A-Za-z.-]([0-9A-Za-z.-])*"/>
        </xs:restriction>
      </xs:simpleType>
    </xs:attribute>
    <xs:attribute name="path" use="required">
      <!-- <xs:simpleType>
        <xs:restriction base="xs:integer">
          <xs:pattern value="[0-9]*\*[0-9]*()"/>
        </xs:restriction>
      </xs:simpleType> -->
    </xs:attribute>
    <xs:attribute name="id" use="required">
      <xs:simpleType>
        <xs:restriction base="xs:string">
          <xs:pattern value="0x([0-9A-F][0-9A-F])+"/>
        </xs:restriction>
      </xs:simpleType>
    </xs:attribute>
    <xs:attribute name="minOccurs" default="0">

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

      <xs:simpleType>
        <xs:restriction base="xs:integer">
          <xs:minInclusive value="0"/>
        </xs:restriction>
      </xs:simpleType>
    </xs:attribute>
    <xs:attribute name="maxOccurs" default="1">
      <xs:simpleType>
        <xs:restriction base="xs:integer">
          <xs:minInclusive value="0"/>
        </xs:restriction>
      </xs:simpleType>
    </xs:attribute>
    <xs:attribute name="range"/>
    <xs:attribute name="length"/>
    <xs:attribute name="default"/>
    <xs:attribute name="type" use="required">
      <xs:simpleType>
        <xs:restriction base="xs:string">
          <xs:enumeration value="integer"/>
          <xs:enumeration value="uinteger"/>
          <xs:enumeration value="float"/>
          <xs:enumeration value="string"/>
          <xs:enumeration value="date"/>
          <xs:enumeration value="utf-8"/>
          <xs:enumeration value="master"/>
          <xs:enumeration value="binary"/>
        </xs:restriction>
      </xs:simpleType>
    </xs:attribute>
    <xs:attribute name="unknownsizeallowed" type="xs:boolean"
      default="false"/>
    <xs:attribute name="recursive" type="xs:boolean"
      default="false"/>
    <xs:attribute name="recurring" type="xs:boolean"
      default="false"/>
    <xs:attribute name="minver" default="1">
      <xs:simpleType>
        <xs:restriction base="xs:integer">
          <xs:minInclusive value="0"/>
        </xs:restriction>
      </xs:simpleType>
    </xs:attribute>
    <xs:attribute name="maxver">
      <xs:simpleType>
        <xs:restriction base="xs:integer">
          <xs:minInclusive value="0"/>
        </xs:restriction>
      </xs:simpleType>
    </xs:attribute>
  </xs:complexType>

  <xs:complexType name="restrictionType">
    <xs:sequence>
      <xs:element name="enum" type="enumType"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
    </xs:sequence>
  </xs:complexType>

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

  <xs:complexType name="extensionType">
    <xs:sequence>
      <xs:any processContents="skip"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
    </xs:sequence>
    <xs:attribute name="type" use="required"/>
    <xs:anyAttribute processContents="skip"/>
  </xs:complexType>

  <xs:complexType name="enumType">
    <xs:sequence>
      <xs:element name="documentation" type="documentationType"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
    </xs:sequence>
    <xs:attribute name="label"/>
    <xs:attribute name="value" use="required"/>
  </xs:complexType>

  <xs:complexType name="documentationType" mixed="true">
    <xs:sequence>
      <xs:element name="a"      type="xhtml:xhtml.a.type"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
      <xs:element name="br"     type="xhtml:xhtml.br.type"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
      <xs:element name="strong" type="xhtml:xhtml.strong.type"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
    </xs:sequence>
    <xs:attribute name="lang"/>
    <xs:attribute name="purpose" use="required">
      <xs:simpleType>
        <xs:restriction base="xs:string">
          <xs:enumeration value="definition"/>
          <xs:enumeration value="rationale"/>
          <xs:enumeration value="references"/>
          <xs:enumeration value="usage notes"/>
        </xs:restriction>
      </xs:simpleType>
    </xs:attribute>
  </xs:complexType>

  <xs:complexType name="noteType">
    <xs:simpleContent>
      <xs:extension base="xs:string">
        <xs:attribute name="note_attribute" use="required">
          <xs:simpleType>
            <xs:restriction base="xs:string">
              <xs:enumeration value="minOccurs"/>
              <xs:enumeration value="maxOccurs"/>
              <xs:enumeration value="range"/>
              <xs:enumeration value="length"/>
              <xs:enumeration value="default"/>
              <xs:enumeration value="minver"/>
              <xs:enumeration value="maxver"/>
            </xs:restriction>
          </xs:simpleType>
        </xs:attribute>
      </xs:extension>

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

    </xs:simpleContent>
  </xs:complexType>
</xs:schema>

11.1.17.  Identically Recurring Elements

MAY

MUST

 occur within its Parent Element
An Identically Recurring Element is an EBML Element that
more than once, but each recurrence of it within that Parent Element
 be identical both in
storage and semantics. Identically Recurring Elements are permitted to be stored multiple times
within the same Parent Element in order to increase data resilience and optimize the use of
EBML in transmission. For instance, a pertinent Top-Level Element could be periodically resent
within a datastream so that an EBML Reader that starts reading the stream from the middle
 include a CRC-32
could better interpret the contents. Identically Recurring Elements
Element as a Child Element; this is especially recommended when EBML is used for long-term
storage or transmission. If a Parent Element contains more than one copy of an Identically
Recurring Element that includes a CRC-32 Element as a Child Element, then the ﬁrst instance of
the Identically Recurring Element with a valid CRC-32 value should be used for interpretation. If
a Parent Element contains more than one copy of an Identically Recurring Element that does not
contain a CRC-32 Element, or if CRC-32 Elements are present but none are valid, then the ﬁrst
instance of the Identically Recurring Element should be used for interpretation.

SHOULD

11.1.18.  Textual expression of ﬂoats

When a ﬂoat value is represented textually in an EBML Schema, such as within a default or
 be expressed as Hexadecimal Floating-Point Constants as
range value, the ﬂoat values
deﬁned in the C11 standard
 (see Section 6.4.4.2 on Floating Constants). Table 9
provides examples of expressions of ﬂoat ranges.

MUST
[ISO9899]

as decimal

as Hexadecimal Floating-Point Constants

0.0

0.0-1.0

0x0p+1

0x0p+1-0x1p+0

1.0-256.0

0x1p+0-0x1p+8

0.857421875

0x1.b7p-1

-1.0--0.857421875

-0x1p+0--0x1.b7p-1

Table 9: Example of Floating-Point values and ranges as decimal and
Hexadecimal Floating-Point Constants

Within an expression of a ﬂoat range, as in an integer range, the - (hyphen) character is the
separator between the minimum and maximum values permitted by the range. Hexadecimal
Floating-Point Constants also use a - (hyphen) when indicating a negative binary power. Within a
ﬂoat range, when a - (hyphen) is immediately preceded by a letter p, then the - (hyphen) is a part

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

of the Hexadecimal Floating-Point Constant that notes negative binary power. Within a ﬂoat
range, when a - (hyphen) is not immediately preceded by a letter p, then the - (hyphen)
represents the separator between the minimum and maximum values permitted by the range.

11.1.19.  Note on the use of default attributes to deﬁne Mandatory EBML Elements

If a Mandatory EBML Element has a default value declared by an EBML Schema and the value of
the EBML Element is equal to the declared default value, then that EBML Element is not required
to be present within the EBML Document if its Parent Element is present. In this case, the default
value of the Mandatory EBML Element
Element is not present within its Parent Element.

 be read by the EBML Reader, although the EBML

MUST

If a Mandatory EBML Element has no default value declared by an EBML Schema and its Parent
Element is present, then the EBML Element
Element has a default value declared by an EBML Schema, and its Parent Element is present, and
the value of the EBML Element is NOT equal to the declared default value, then the EBML
Element

 be present, as well. If a Mandatory EBML

 be present.

MUST

MUST

Table 10 clariﬁes whether a Mandatory EBML Element
the default value is declared, the value of the EBML Element is equal to the declared default
value, and/or the Parent Element is used.

 be written, according to whether

MUST

Is the default
value declared?

Is the value
equal to
default?

Is the Parent
Element
present?

Then is storing the EBML

Element

REQUIRED

?

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

n/a

n/a

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Table 10: Demonstration of the conditional requirements of VINT Storage

11.2.  EBML Header Elements

This document contains deﬁnitions of all EBML Elements of the EBML Header.

11.2.1.  EBML Element

name:

EBML

path:

\EBML

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

id:

0x1A45DFA3

minOccurs:

1

maxOccurs:

1

type:

Master Element

description:

Set the EBML characteristics of the data to follow. Each EBML Document has to

start with this.

11.2.2.  EBMLVersion Element

name:

EBMLVersion

path:

\EBML\EBMLVersion

id:

0x4286

minOccurs:

1

maxOccurs:

1

range:

not 0

default:

1

type:

Unsigned Integer

description:

The version of EBML speciﬁcations used to create the EBML Document. The

version of EBML deﬁned in this document is 1, so EBMLVersion

SHOULD

 be 1.

11.2.3.  EBMLReadVersion Element

name:

EBMLReadVersion

path:

\EBML\EBMLReadVersion

id:

0x42F7

minOccurs:

1

maxOccurs:

1

range:

1

default:

1

type:

Unsigned Integer

description:

The minimum EBML version an EBML Reader has to support to read this EBML
 be less than or equal to EBMLVersion.
MUST

Document. The EBMLReadVersion Element

11.2.4.  EBMLMaxIDLength Element

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

name:

EBMLMaxIDLength

path:

\EBML\EBMLMaxIDLength

id:

0x42F2

minOccurs:

1

maxOccurs:

1

range:

>=4

default:

4

type:

Unsigned Integer

description:

The EBMLMaxIDLength Element stores the maximum permitted length in octets of
the Element IDs to be found within the EBML Body. An EBMLMaxIDLength Element value
of four is

, though larger values are allowed.

RECOMMENDED

11.2.5.  EBMLMaxSizeLength Element

name:

EBMLMaxSizeLength

path:

\EBML\EBMLMaxSizeLength

id:

0x42F3

minOccurs:

1

maxOccurs:

1

range:

not 0

default:

8

type:

Unsigned Integer

description:

The EBMLMaxSizeLength Element stores the maximum permitted length in octets

of the expressions of all Element Data Sizes to be found within the EBML Body. The
EBMLMaxSizeLength Element documents an upper bound for the length of all Element
Data Size expressions within the EBML Body and not an upper bound for the value of all
Element Data Size expressions within the EBML Body. EBML Elements that have an
Element Data Size expression that is larger in octets than what is expressed by
EBMLMaxSizeLength Element are invalid.

11.2.6.  DocType Element

name:

DocType

path:

\EBML\DocType

id:

0x4282

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

minOccurs:

1

maxOccurs:

1

length:

>0

type:

String

description:

A string that describes and identiﬁes the content of the EBML Body that follows

this EBML Header.

11.2.7.  DocTypeVersion Element

name:

DocTypeVersion

path:

\EBML\DocTypeVersion

id:

0x4287

minOccurs:

1

maxOccurs:

1

range:

not 0

default:

1

type:

Unsigned Integer

description:

The version of DocType interpreter used to create the EBML Document.

11.2.8.  DocTypeReadVersion Element

name:

DocTypeReadVersion

path:

\EBML\DocTypeReadVersion

id:

0x4285

minOccurs:

1

maxOccurs:

1

range:

not 0

default:

1

type:

Unsigned Integer

description:

The minimum DocType version an EBML Reader has to support to read this EBML

Document. The value of the DocTypeReadVersion Element
the value of the DocTypeVersion Element.

MUST

 be less than or equal to

11.2.9.  DocTypeExtension Element

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

name:

DocTypeExtension

path:

\EBML\DocTypeExtension

id:

0x4281

minOccurs:

0

type:

Master Element

description:

A DocTypeExtension adds extra Elements to the main DocType+DocTypeVersion

tuple it's attached to. An EBML Reader
them. A DocTypeExtension
 be used to iterate between experimental Elements before
they are integrated into a regular DocTypeVersion. Reading one DocTypeExtension version
of a DocType+DocTypeVersion tuple doesn't imply one should be able to read upper
versions of this DocTypeExtension.

 know these extra Elements and how to use

MAY

MAY

11.2.10.  DocTypeExtensionName Element

name:

DocTypeExtensionName

path:

\EBML\DocTypeExtension\DocTypeExtensionName

id:

0x4283

minOccurs:

1

maxOccurs:

1

length:

>0

type:

String

description:

The name of the DocTypeExtension to diﬀerentiate it from other

DocTypeExtensions of the same DocType+DocTypeVersion tuple. A
DocTypeExtensionName value
MUST

 be unique within the EBML Header.

11.2.11.  DocTypeExtensionVersion Element

name:

DocTypeExtensionVersion

path:

\EBML\DocTypeExtension\DocTypeExtensionVersion

id:

0x4284

minOccurs:

1

maxOccurs:

1

range:

not 0

type:

Unsigned Integer

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

description: The version of the DocTypeExtension. Diﬀerent DocTypeExtensionVersion values

of the same DocType + DocTypeVersion + DocTypeExtensionName tuple
completely diﬀerent sets of extra Elements. An EBML Reader
versions of the same tuple, only one version of the tuple, or not support the tuple at all.

MAY
 support multiple

 contain

MAY

11.3.  Global Elements

EBML allows some special Elements to be found within more than one parent in an EBML
Document or optionally at the Root Level of an EBML Body. These Elements are called Global
Elements. There are two Global Elements that can be found in any EBML Document: the CRC-32
Element and the Void Element. An EBML Schema
deﬁnes. These extra elements apply only to the EBML Body, not the EBML Header.

 add other Global Elements to the format it

MAY

Global Elements are EBML Elements whose EBMLLastParent part of the path has a
GlobalPlaceholder. Because it is the last Parent part of the path, a Global Element might also have
EBMLParentPath parts in its path. In this case, the Global Element can only be found within this
EBMLParentPath path -- i.e., it's not fully "global".

A Global Element can be found in many Parent Elements, allowing the same number of
occurrences in each Parent where this Element is found.

11.3.1.  CRC-32 Element

name:

CRC-32

path:

\(1-\)CRC-32

id:

0xBF

minOccurs:

0

maxOccurs:

1

length:

4

type:

Binary

description:

The CRC-32 Element contains a 32-bit Cyclic Redundancy Check value of all the

Element Data of the Parent Element as stored except for the CRC-32 Element itself. When
the CRC-32 Element is present, the CRC-32 Element
Element within its Parent Element for easier reading. All Top-Level Elements of an EBML
Document that are Master Elements
The CRC in use is the IEEE-CRC-32 algorithm as used in the
Section 8.1.1.6.2 of
computed on a little-endian bytestream and

, with initial value of 0xFFFFFFFF. The CRC value

 standard and in
 be

 include a CRC-32 Element as a Child Element.

 be the ﬁrst ordered EBML

 use little-endian storage.

[ISO3309]

[ITU.V42]

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

MUST

11.3.2.  Void Element

name:

Void

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

path:

\(-\)Void

id:

0xEC

minOccurs:

0

type:

Binary

description:

Used to void data or to avoid unexpected behaviors when using damaged data. The

content is discarded. Also used to reserve space in a subelement for later use.

12.  Considerations for Reading EBML Data

The following scenarios describe events to consider when reading EBML Documents, as well as
the recommended design of an EBML Reader.

If a Master Element contains a CRC-32 Element that doesn't validate, then the EBML Reader
ignore all contained data except for Descendant Elements that contain their own valid CRC-32
Element.

MAY

In the following XML representation of a simple, hypothetical EBML fragment, a Master Element
called CONTACT contains two Child Elements, NAME and ADDRESS. In this example, some data
within the NAME Element had been altered so that the CRC-32 of the NAME Element does not
validate, and thus any Ancestor Element with a CRC-32 would therefore also no longer validate.
However, even though the CONTACT Element has a CRC-32 that does not validate (because of the
changed data within the NAME Element), the CRC-32 of the ADDRESS Element does validate, and
thus the contents and semantics of the ADDRESS Element

 be used.

MAY

<CONTACT>
    <CRC-32>c119a69b</CRC-32><!-- does not validate -->
    <NAME>
        <CRC-32>1f59ee2b</CRC-32><!-- does not validate -->
        <FIRST-NAME>invalid data</FIRST-NAME>
        <LAST-NAME>invalid data</LAST-NAME>
    </NAME>
    <ADDRESS>
        <CRC-32>df941cc9</CRC-32><!-- validates -->
        <STREET>valid data</STREET>
        <CITY>valid data</CITY>
    </ADDRESS>
</CONTACT>

If a Master Element contains more occurrences of a Child Master Element than permitted
according to the maxOccurs and recurring attributes of the deﬁnition of that Element, then the
occurrences in addition to maxOccurs
 be ignored.

MAY

If a Master Element contains more occurrences of a Child Element than permitted according to
the maxOccurs attribute of the deﬁnition of that Element, then all instances of that Element after
the ﬁrst maxOccurs occurrences from the beginning of its Parent Element

 be ignored.

SHOULD

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

13.  Terminating Elements

 follow the value of a String Element or
 terminate a String Element or
MAY

Null Octets, which are octets with all bits set to zero,
MAY
UTF-8 Element to serve as a terminator. An EBML Writer
UTF-8 Element with Null Octets in order to overwrite a stored value with a new value of lesser
length while maintaining the same Element Data Size; this can prevent the need to rewrite large
portions of an EBML Document. Otherwise, the use of Null Octets within a String Element or
UTF-8 Element is
 be a valid
UTF-8 string up to whichever comes ﬁrst: the end of the Element or the ﬁrst occurring Null octet.
Within the Element Data of a String or UTF-8 Element, any Null octet itself and any following
data within that Element
terminated by one or more Null Octets are semantically equal.

 be ignored. A string value and a copy of that string value

. The Element Data of a UTF-8 Element

NOT RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

MUST

Table 11 shows examples of semantics and validation for the use of Null Octets. Values to
represent Stored Values and the Semantic Meaning as represented as hexadecimal values.

Stored Value

Semantic Meaning

0x65 0x62 0x6D 0x6C

0x65 0x62 0x6D 0x6C

0x65 0x62 0x00 0x6C

0x65 0x62

0x65 0x62 0x00 0x00

0x65 0x62

0x65 0x62

0x65 0x62

Table 11: Examples of semantics for Null Octets in
VINT_DATA

14.  Guidelines for Updating Elements

An EBML Document can be updated without requiring that the entire EBML Document be
rewritten. These recommendations describe strategies for changing the Element Data of a
written EBML Element with minimal disruption to the rest of the EBML Document.

14.1.  Reducing Element Data in Size

There are three methods to reduce the size of Element Data of a written EBML Element.

14.1.1.  Adding a Void Element

When an EBML Element is changed to reduce its total length by more than one octet, an EBML
Writer

 ﬁll the freed space with a Void Element.

SHOULD

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

14.1.2.  Extending the Element Data Size

The same value for Element Data Size
of the Element Data, the Element Size
space.

MAY

MAY

 be written in various lengths, so for minor reductions
 be written to a longer octet length to ﬁll the freed

For example, the ﬁrst row of Table 12 depicts a String Element that stores an Element ID (3
octets), Element Data Size (1 octet), and Element Data (4 octets). If the Element Data is changed to
reduce the length by one octet, and if the current length of the Element Data Size is less than its
maximum permitted length, then the Element Data Size of that Element
increase its length by one octet. Thus, before and after the change, the EBML Element maintains
the same length of 8 octets, and data around the Element does not need to be moved.

 be rewritten to

MAY

Status

Element ID Element Data Size

Element Data

Before edit

0x3B4040

0x84

0x65626D6C

After edit

0x3B4040

0x4003

0x6D6B76

Table 12: Example of editing a VINT to reduce VINT_DATA length by
one octet

This method is
reductions by two or more octets, it is

RECOMMENDED

 when the Element Data is reduced by a single octet; for

RECOMMENDED

 to ﬁll the freed space with a Void Element.

Note that if the Element Data length needs to be rewritten as shortened by one octet and the
Element Data Size could be rewritten as a shorter VINT, then it is
Element Data Size as one octet shorter, shorten the Element Data by one octet, and follow that
Element with a Void Element. For example, Table 13 depicts a String Element that stores an
Element ID (3 octets), Element Data Size (2 octets, but could be rewritten in one octet), and
Element Data (3 octets). If the Element Data is to be rewritten to a two-octet length, then another
octet can be taken from Element Data Size so that there is enough space to add a two-octet Void
Element.

 to rewrite the

RECOMMENDED

Status

Element ID Element Data Size

Element Data

Void Element

Before

0x3B4040

0x4003

0x6D6B76

After

0x3B4040

0x82

0x6869

0xEC80

Table 13: Example of editing a VINT to reduce VINT_DATA length by more than one
octet

14.1.3.  Terminating Element Data

For String Elements and UTF-8 Elements, the length of Element Data could be reduced by adding
Null Octets to terminate the Element Data (see Section 13).

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

In Table 14, Element Data four octets long is changed to a value three octets long, followed by a
Null Octet; the Element Data Size includes any Null Octets used to terminate Element Data and
therefore remains unchanged.

Status

Element ID Element Data Size

Element Data

Before edit

0x3B4040

0x84

0x65626D6C

After edit

0x3B4040

0x84

0x6D6B7600

Table 14: Example of terminating VINT_DATA with a Null Octet when
reducing VINT length during an edit

Note that this method is
Extending the Element Data Size
method for Adding a Void Element

SHOULD

 be used.

NOT RECOMMENDED

. For reductions of one octet, the method for
 be used. For reduction by more than one octet, the

SHOULD

14.2.  Considerations when Updating Elements with Cyclic Redundancy
Check (CRC)

If the Element to be changed is a Descendant Element of any Master Element that contains a
CRC-32 Element (see Section 11.3.1), then the CRC-32 Element
the change. Additionally, the CRC-32 Element value
changed data.

 be veriﬁed before permitting
 be subsequently updated to reﬂect the

MUST

MUST

15.  Backward and Forward Compatibility

Elements of an EBML format
mind.

SHOULD

 be designed with backward and forward compatibility in

15.1.  Backward Compatibility

Backward compatibility of new EBML Elements can be achieved by using default values for
mandatory elements. The default value
versions of the EBML Schema, without this new EBML Element. If such a state doesn't make
sense for previous versions, then the new EBML Element

 represent the state that was assumed for previous

 be mandatory.

SHOULD NOT

MUST

Non-mandatory EBML Elements can be added in a new EBMLDocTypeVersion. Since they are not
mandatory, they won't be found in older versions of the EBMLDocTypeVersion, just as they might
not be found in newer versions. This causes no compatibility issue.

15.2.  Forward Compatibility

MAY

EBML Elements
 be marked as deprecated in a new EBMLDocTypeVersion using the maxver
attribute of the EBML Schema. If such an Element is found in an EBML Document with a newer
version of the EBMLDocTypeVersion, it

 be discarded.

SHOULD

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

16.  Security Considerations

EBML itself does not oﬀer any kind of security and does not provide conﬁdentiality. EBML does
not provide any kind of authorization. EBML only oﬀers marginally useful and eﬀective data
integrity options, such as CRC elements.

Even if the semantic layer oﬀers any kind of encryption, EBML itself could leak information at
both the semantic layer (as declared via the DocType Element) and within the EBML structure
(the presence of EBML Elements can be derived even with an unknown semantic layer using a
heuristic approach -- not without errors, of course, but with a certain degree of conﬁdence).

An EBML Document that has the following issues may still be handled by the EBML Reader and
the data accepted as such, depending on how strict the EBML Reader wants to be:

•

Invalid Element IDs that are longer than the limit stated in the EBMLMaxIDLength Element
of the EBML Header.

•

Invalid Element IDs that are not encoded in the shortest-possible way.

•

Invalid Element Data Size values that are longer than the limit stated in the
EBMLMaxSizeLength Element of the EBML Header.

Element IDs that are unknown to the EBML Reader
to skip such elements.

MAY

 be accepted as valid EBML IDs in order

EBML Elements with a string type may contain extra data after the ﬁrst 0x00. These data
discarded according to the Section 13 rules.

MUST

 be

An EBML Reader may discard some or all data if the following errors are found in the EBML
Document:

•

Invalid Element Data Size values (e.g., extending the length of the EBML Element beyond the
scope of the Parent Element, possibly triggering access-out-of-bounds issues).

•

Very high lengths in order to force out-of-memory situations resulting in a denial of service,
access-out-of-bounds issues, etc.

•

Missing EBML Elements that are mandatory in a Master Element and have no declared
default value, making the semantic invalid at that Master Element level.

•

Usage of invalid UTF-8 encoding in EBML Elements of UTF-8 type (e.g., in order to trigger
access-out-of-bounds or buﬀer-overﬂow issues).

•

Usage of invalid data in EBML Elements with a date type, triggering bogus date accesses.

•

The CRC-32 Element (see Section 11.3.1) of a Master Element doesn't match the rest of the
content of that Master Element.

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

Side-channel attacks could exploit:

•

The semantic equivalence of the same string stored in a String Element or UTF-8 Element
with and without zero-bit padding, making comparison at the semantic level invalid.

•

The semantic equivalence of VINT_DATA within Element Data Size with two diﬀerent lengths
due to left-padding zero bits, making comparison at the semantic level invalid.

•

Data contained within a Master Element that is not itself part of a Child Element, which can
trigger incorrect parsing behavior in EBML Readers.

•

Extraneous copies of Identically Recurring Element, making parsing unnecessarily slow to
the point of not being usable.

•

Copies of Identically Recurring Element within a Parent Element that contain invalid CRC-32
Elements. EBML Readers not checking the CRC-32 might use the version of the element with
mismatching CRC-32s.

•

Use of Void Elements that could be used to hide content or create bogus resynchronization
points seen by some EBML Readers and not others.

17.  IANA Considerations

17.1.  EBML Element IDs Registry

This document creates a new IANA registry called the "EBML Element IDs" registry.

Element IDs are described in Section 5. Element IDs are encoded using the VINT mechanism
described in Section 4 and can be between one and ﬁve octets long. Five-octet-long Element IDs
are possible only if declared in the header.

This IANA registry only applies to Elements that can be contained in the EBML Header, thus
including Global Elements. Elements only found in the EBML Body have their own set of
independent Element IDs and are not part of this IANA registry.

One-octet Element IDs
are short, and they need to be used for commonly repeated elements. Element IDs are to be
allocated within this range according to the "RFC Required" policy

 be between 0x81 and 0xFE. These items are valuable because they

.
[RFC8126]

MUST

The following one-octet Element IDs are RESERVED: 0xFF and 0x80.

Values in the one-octet range of 0x00 to 0x7F are not valid for use as an Element ID.

Two-octet Element IDs
within this range according to the "Speciﬁcation Required" policy

MUST

 be between 0x407F and 0x7FFE. Element IDs are to be allocated

[RFC8126]

.

The following two-octet Element IDs are RESERVED: 0x7FFF and 0x4000.

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

Values in the two-octet ranges of 0x0000 to 0x3FFF and 0x8000 to 0xFFFF are not valid for use as
an Element ID.

Three-octet Element IDs
allocated within this range according to the "First Come First Served" policy

 be between 0x203FFF and 0x3FFFFE. Element IDs are to be

[RFC8126]
.

MUST

The following three-octet Element IDs are RESERVED: 0x3FFFFF and 0x200000.

Values in the three-octet ranges of 0x000000 to 0x1FFFFF and 0x400000 to 0xFFFFFF are not valid
for use as an Element ID.

MUST

 be between 0x101FFFFF and 0x1FFFFFFE. Four-octet Element IDs

Four-octet Element IDs
are somewhat special in that they are useful for resynchronizing to major structures in the event
of data corruption or loss. As such, four-octet Element IDs are split into two categories. Four-octet
Element IDs whose lower three octets (as encoded) would make printable 7-bit ASCII values
 be allocated by the "Speciﬁcation Required" policy. Sequential
(0x20 to 0x7E, inclusive)
 include a speciﬁc request and are
allocation of values is not required: speciﬁcations
encouraged to do early allocations.

SHOULD

MUST

To be clear about the above category: four-octet Element IDs always start with hex 0x10 to 0x1F,
and that octet may be chosen so that the entire VINT has some desirable property, such as a
speciﬁc CRC. The other three octets, when ALL having values between 0x20 (32, ASCII Space) and
0x7E (126, ASCII "~"), fall into this category.

Other four-octet Element IDs may be allocated by the "First Come First Served" policy.

The following four-octet Element IDs are RESERVED: 0x1FFFFFFF and 0x10000000.

Values in the four-octet ranges of 0x00000000 to 0x0FFFFFFF and 0x20000000 to 0xFFFFFFFF are
not valid for use as an Element ID.

Five-octet Element IDs (values from 0x080FFFFFFF to 0x0FFFFFFFFE) are RESERVED according to
: they may be used by anyone at any time, but there is no
the "Experimental Use" policy
coordination.

[RFC8126]

ID Values found in this document are assigned as initial values as follows:

Element ID Element Name

Reference

0x1A45DFA3

EBML

Described in Section 11.2.1

0x4286

EBMLVersion

Described in Section 11.2.2

0x42F7

EBMLReadVersion

Described in Section 11.2.3

0x42F2

EBMLMaxIDLength

Described in Section 11.2.4

0x42F3

EBMLMaxSizeLength

Described in Section 11.2.5

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

Element ID Element Name

Reference

0x4282

DocType

Described in Section 11.2.6

0x4287

DocTypeVersion

Described in Section 11.2.7

0x4285

DocTypeReadVersion

Described in Section 11.2.8

0x4281

DocTypeExtension

Described in Section 11.2.9

0x4283

DocTypeExtensionName

Described in Section 11.2.10

0x4284

DocTypeExtensionVersion

Described in Section 11.2.11

0xBF

CRC-32

Described in Section 11.3.1

0xEC

Void

Described in Section 11.3.2

Table 15: IDs and Names for EBML Elements assigned by this document

17.2.  EBML DocTypes Registry

This document creates a new IANA registry called the "EBML DocTypes" registry.

To register a new DocType in this registry, one needs a DocType name, a Description of the
DocType, a Change Controller (IESG or email of registrant), and an optional Reference to a
document describing the DocType.

DocType values are described in Section 11.1.4.1. DocTypes are ASCII strings, deﬁned in Section
7.4, which label the oﬃcial name of the EBML Document Type. The strings may be allocated
according to the "First Come First Served" policy.

The use of ASCII corresponds to the types and code already in use; the value is not meant to be
visible to the user.

DocType string values of "matroska" and "webm" are RESERVED to the IETF for future use. These
can be assigned via the "IESG Approval" or "RFC Required" policies

[RFC8126]
.

18.  Normative References

[IEEE.754]

[ISO3309]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Binary Floating-Point Arithmetic"
<https://standards.ieee.org/standard/754-2019.html>

.

, 13 June 2019,

International Organization for Standardization "Data communication -- High-
level data link control procedures -- Frame structure" ISO 3309, 3rd Edition
October 1984,

<https://www.iso.org/standard/8558.html>

,

.

,

,

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

[ISO9899]

[ITU.V42]

[RFC0020]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2648]

[RFC3339]

[RFC3629]

[RFC3688]

[RFC5234]

[RFC5646]

[RFC7405]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8141]

[RFC8174]

International Organization for Standardization "Information technology --
,
Programming languages -- C" ISO/IEC 9899:2011
, 2011,
standard/57853.html>

<https://www.iso.org/

.

,

International Telecommunications Union "Error-correcting procedures for
DCEs using asynchronous-to-synchronous conversion" ITU-T Recommendation
V.42

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-V.42>

, March 2002,

,
.

,

,
Cerf, V. "ASCII format for network interchange" STD 80 RFC 20 DOI 10.17487/
RFC0020

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc20>

, October 1969,

,
.

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Moats, R. "A URN Namespace for IETF Documents" RFC 2648 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2648

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2648>

,
, August 1999,

,

,

.

Klyne, G. and C. Newman "Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps" RFC
,
3339 DOI 10.17487/RFC3339
rfc3339>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2002,

,

.

,
Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

.

,

,

,
Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
January 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>

,
.

,

,

,

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

Phillips, A., Ed. and M. Davis, Ed. "Tags for Identifying Languages" BCP 47 RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
5646 DOI 10.17487/RFC5646
rfc5646>

, September 2009,

.

,

,

,

Kyzivat, P. "Case-Sensitive String Support in ABNF" RFC 7405 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7405

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7405>

, December 2014,

.

,

,

,

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

Saint-Andre, P. and J. Klensin "Uniform Resource Names (URNs)" RFC 8141 DOI
10.17487/RFC8141

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8141>

,
, April 2017,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 8794

EBML

July 2020

[XHTML]

[XML]

[XML-SCHEMA]

,

McCarron, S. "XHTML(tm) Basic 1.1 -- Second Edition" Latest version available
at https://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml-basic
TR/2018/SPSD-xhtml-basic-20180327/>

,
<https://www.w3.org/
, 27 March 2018,
.

Bray, T., Ed., Paoli, J., Ed., Sperberg-McQueen, C.M., Ed., Maler, E., Ed., and F.
Yergeau, Ed. "Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Fifth Edition)" Latest
,
version available at https://www.w3.org/TR/xml/
<https://
www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-xml-20081126/>

, 26 November 2008,

,

.

Fallside, D.C. and P. Walmsley "XML Schema Part 0: Primer Second Edition"

,
Latest version available at http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-0/
2004,

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-xmlschema-0-20041028/>

, 28 October

.

,

19.  Informative References

[Matroska]

[WebM]

[XPath]

,
Lhomme, S., Bunkus, M., and D. Rice "Matroska Media Container Format
Speciﬁcations" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-05
17 April 2020,

,
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-cellar-matroska-05>

,

.

,

The WebM Project "WebM Container Guidelines"
www.webmproject.org/docs/container/>

.

,

, 28 November 2017,

<https://

Clark, J., Ed. and S. DeRose "XML Path Language (XPath) Version 1.0" Latest
version available at https://www.w3.org/TR/xpath
www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-xpath-19991116>

,
, 16 November 1999,

,

.

<https://

Authors' Addresses

Steve Lhomme
Email:

 slhomme@matroska.org

Dave Rice
Email:

 dave@dericed.com

Moritz Bunkus
Email:

 moritz@bunkus.org

Lhomme, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

