Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8747
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721
M. Jones
Microsoft

G. Selander
Ericsson AB

L. Seitz
Combitech

S. Erdtman
Spotify

H. Tschofenig
Arm Ltd.

RFC 8747
Proof-of-Possession Key Semantics for CBOR Web
Tokens (CWTs)

Abstract

This speciﬁcation describes how to declare in a CBOR Web Token (CWT) (which is deﬁned by RFC
8392) that the presenter of the CWT possesses a particular proof-of-possession key. Being able to
prove possession of a key is also sometimes described as being the holder-of-key. This
speciﬁcation provides equivalent functionality to "Proof-of-Possession Key Semantics for JSON
Web Tokens (JWTs)" (RFC 7800) but using Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) and
CWTs rather than JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) and JSON Web Tokens (JWTs).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8747

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Representations for Proof-of-Possession Keys

3.1.  Conﬁrmation Claim

3.2.  Representation of an Asymmetric Proof-of-Possession Key

3.3.  Representation of an Encrypted Symmetric Proof-of-Possession Key

3.4.  Representation of a Key ID for a Proof-of-Possession Key

3.5.  Speciﬁcs Intentionally Not Speciﬁed

4.  Security Considerations

5.  Privacy Considerations

6.  Operational Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  CBOR Web Token Claims Registration

7.1.1.  Registry Contents

7.2.  CWT Conﬁrmation Methods Registry

7.2.1.  Registration Template

7.2.2.  Initial Registry Contents

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

1.  Introduction

This speciﬁcation describes how a CBOR Web Token (CWT)
presenter of the CWT possesses a particular proof-of-possession (PoP) key. Proof of possession of
a key is also sometimes described as being the holder-of-key. This speciﬁcation provides
equivalent functionality to "Proof-of-Possession Key Semantics for JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)"
[RFC7800]
[RFC8392]
.
[JWT]

 but using Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)
 rather than JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)
[RFC8259]

 and CWTs
[RFC7049]
 and JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)

 can declare that the

[RFC8392]

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This speciﬁcation uses terms deﬁned in the CBOR Web Token (CWT)
Signing and Encryption (COSE)
[RFC7049]

, CBOR Object
, and Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)

 speciﬁcations.

[RFC8152]

[RFC8392]

These terms are deﬁned by this speciﬁcation:

Issuer

Party that creates the CWT and binds the claims about the subject to the proof-of-
possession key.

Presenter

Party that proves possession of a private key (for asymmetric key cryptography) or secret
key (for symmetric key cryptography) to a recipient of a CWT.

In the context of OAuth, this party is also called the OAuth Client.

Recipient

Party that receives the CWT containing the proof-of-possession key information from the
presenter.

In the context of OAuth, this party is also called the OAuth Resource Server.

This speciﬁcation provides examples in CBOR extended diagnostic notation, as deﬁned in
Appendix G of [RFC8610]

. The examples include line breaks for readability.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

3.  Representations for Proof-of-Possession Keys

By including a cnf (conﬁrmation) claim in a CWT, the issuer of the CWT declares that the
presenter possesses a particular key and that the recipient can cryptographically conﬁrm that
the presenter has possession of that key. The value of the cnf claim is a CBOR map (which is
deﬁned in
possession key.

) and the members of that map identify the proof-of-

Section 2.1 of [RFC7049]

The presenter can be identiﬁed in one of several ways by the CWT, depending upon the
application requirements. For instance, some applications may use the CWT sub (subject) claim
 to identify the presenter. Other applications may use the iss (issuer) claim
[RFC8392]
[RFC8392]
to identify the presenter. In some applications, the subject identiﬁer might be relative to the
issuer identiﬁed by the iss claim. The actual mechanism used is dependent upon the application.
The case in which the presenter is the subject of the CWT is analogous to Security Assertion
Markup Language (SAML) 2.0

 SubjectConﬁrmation usage.

[OASIS.saml-core-2.0-os]

3.1.  Conﬁrmation Claim

The cnf claim in the CWT is used to carry conﬁrmation methods. Some of them use proof-of-
possession keys, while others do not. This design is analogous to the SAML 2.0
core-2.0-os]
methods can be included (including proof-of-possession key information).

 SubjectConﬁrmation element in which a number of diﬀerent subject conﬁrmation

[OASIS.saml-

The set of conﬁrmation members that a CWT must contain to be considered valid is context
dependent and is outside the scope of this speciﬁcation. Speciﬁc applications of CWTs will
require implementations to understand and process some conﬁrmation members in particular
ways. However, in the absence of such requirements, all conﬁrmation members that are not
understood by implementations

 be ignored.

MUST

Section 7.2 establishes the IANA "CWT Conﬁrmation Methods" registry for CWT cnf member
values and registers the members deﬁned by this speciﬁcation. Other speciﬁcations can register
other members used for conﬁrmation, including other members for conveying proof-of-
possession keys using diﬀerent key representations.

MUST

 represent only a single proof-of-possession key. At most one of the

The cnf claim value
COSE_Key and Encrypted_COSE_Key conﬁrmation values deﬁned in Table 1 may be present. Note
that if an application needs to represent multiple proof-of-possession keys in the same CWT, one
way for it to achieve this is to use other claim names (in addition to cnf) to hold the additional
proof-of-possession key information. These claims could use the same syntax and semantics as
the cnf claim. Those claims would be deﬁned by applications or other speciﬁcations and could be
registered in the IANA "CBOR Web Token (CWT) Claims" registry

[IANA.CWT.Claims]
.

Name

Key

Value type

COSE_Key

1

COSE_Key

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

Name

Key

Value type

Encrypted_COSE_Key

kid

2

3

COSE_Encrypt or COSE_Encrypt0

binary string

Table 1: Summary of the cnf Names, Keys, and Value Types

3.2.  Representation of an Asymmetric Proof-of-Possession Key

When the key held by the presenter is an asymmetric private key, the COSE_Key member is a
COSE_Key
example demonstrates such a declaration in the CWT Claims Set of a CWT:

 representing the corresponding asymmetric public key. The following

[RFC8152]

 {
 /iss/ 1 : "coaps://server.example.com",
 /aud/ 3 : "coaps://client.example.org",
 /exp/ 4 : 1879067471,
 /cnf/ 8 :{
   /COSE_Key/ 1 :{
     /kty/ 1 : /EC2/ 2,
     /crv/ -1 : /P-256/ 1,
     /x/ -2 : h'd7cc072de2205bdc1537a543d53c60a6acb62eccd890c7fa27c9
                e354089bbe13',
     /y/ -3 : h'f95e1d4b851a2cc80fff87d8e23f22afb725d535e515d020731e
                79a3b4e47120'
    }
  }
}

The COSE_Key
contain other COSE_Key members, including the kid (Key ID) member.

 contain the required key members for a COSE_Key of that key type and

MUST

MAY

MAY

 also be used for a COSE_Key representing a symmetric key, provided

The COSE_Key member
that the CWT is encrypted so that the key is not revealed to unintended parties. The means of
encrypting a CWT is explained in
. If the CWT is not encrypted, the symmetric key
MUST
Section 3.3 of [RFC7800]

 be encrypted as described in Section 3.3. This procedure is equivalent to the one deﬁned in

[RFC8392]

.

3.3.  Representation of an Encrypted Symmetric Proof-of-Possession Key

When the key held by the presenter is a symmetric key, the Encrypted_COSE_Key member is an
encrypted COSE_Key
recipient using COSE_Encrypt or COSE_Encrypt0.

 representing the symmetric key encrypted to a key known to the

[RFC8152]

The following example illustrates a symmetric key that could subsequently be encrypted for use
in the Encrypted_COSE_Key member:

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

{
 /kty/ 1 : /Symmetric/ 4,
 /alg/ 3 : /HMAC 256-256/ 5,
 /k/ -1 : h'6684523ab17337f173500e5728c628547cb37df
            e68449c65f885d1b73b49eae1'
}

The COSE_Key representation is used as the plaintext when encrypting the key.

The following example CWT Claims Set of a CWT illustrates the use of an encrypted symmetric
key as the Encrypted_COSE_Key member value:

{
 /iss/ 1 : "coaps://server.example.com",
 /sub/ 2 : "24400320",
 /aud/ 3: "s6BhdRkqt3",
 /exp/ 4 : 1311281970,
 /iat/ 5 : 1311280970,
 /cnf/ 8 : {
 /Encrypted_COSE_Key/ 2 : [
    /protected header/ h'A1010A' /{ \alg\ 1:10 \AES-CCM-16-64-128\}/,
    /unprotected header/ { / iv / 5: h'636898994FF0EC7BFCF6D3F95B'},
    /ciphertext/  h'0573318A3573EB983E55A7C2F06CADD0796C9E584F1D0E3E
                    A8C5B052592A8B2694BE9654F0431F38D5BBC8049FA7F13F'
   ]
  }
}

The example above was generated with the key:

h'6162630405060708090a0b0c0d0e0f10'

3.4.  Representation of a Key ID for a Proof-of-Possession Key

The proof-of-possession key can also be identiﬁed using a Key ID instead of communicating the
actual key, provided the recipient is able to obtain the identiﬁed key using the Key ID. In this
case, the issuer of a CWT declares that the presenter possesses a particular key and that the
recipient can cryptographically conﬁrm the presenter's proof of possession of the key by
including a cnf claim in the CWT whose value is a CBOR map containing a kid member
identifying the key.

The following example demonstrates such a declaration in the CWT Claims Set of a CWT:

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

{
 /iss/ 1 : "coaps://as.example.com",
 /aud/ 3 : "coaps://resource.example.org",
 /exp/ 4 : 1361398824,
 /cnf/ 8 : {
   /kid/ 3 : h'dfd1aa976d8d4575a0fe34b96de2bfad'
  }
}

The content of the kid value is application speciﬁc. For instance, some applications may choose
to use a cryptographic hash of the public key value as the kid value.

Note that the use of a Key ID to identify a proof-of-possession key needs to be carefully
circumscribed, as described below and in Section 6. In cases where the Key ID is not a
cryptographic value derived from the key or where not all of the parties involved are validating
the cryptographic derivation, implementers should expect collisions where diﬀerent keys are
assigned the same Key ID. Recipients of a CWT with a PoP key linked through only a Key ID
should be prepared to handle such situations.

In the world of constrained Internet of Things (IoT) devices, there is frequently a restriction on
the size of Key IDs, either because of table constraints or a desire to keep message sizes small.

Note that the value of a Key ID for a speciﬁc key is not necessarily the same for diﬀerent parties.
When sending a COSE encrypted message with a shared key, the Key ID may be diﬀerent on both
sides of the conversation, with the appropriate one being included in the message based on the
recipient of the message.

3.5.  Speciﬁcs Intentionally Not Speciﬁed

Proof of possession is often demonstrated by having the presenter sign a value determined by
the recipient using the key possessed by the presenter. This value is sometimes called a "nonce"
or a "challenge". There are, however, also other means to demonstrate freshness of the exchange
and to link the proof-of-possession key to the participating parties, as demonstrated by various
authentication and key exchange protocols.

The means of communicating the nonce and the nature of its contents are intentionally not
described in this speciﬁcation, as diﬀerent protocols will communicate this information in
diﬀerent ways. Likewise, the means of communicating the signed nonce is also not speciﬁed, as
this is also protocol speciﬁc.

Note that other means of proving possession of the key exist, which could be used in conjunction
with a CWT's conﬁrmation key. Applications making use of such alternate means are encouraged
to register them in the IANA "CBOR Web Token (CWT) Conﬁrmation Methods" registry
established in Section 7.2.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

4.  Security Considerations

All the security considerations that are discussed in
of possession introduces its own unique security issues. Possessing a key is only valuable if it is
kept secret. Appropriate means must be used to ensure that unintended parties do not learn
private key or symmetric key values.

 also apply here. In addition, proof

[RFC8392]

Section 3.1.3 of [RFC8392]

Applications utilizing proof of possession
in
, because it provides additional protections. Audience restriction can
be used by recipients to reject messages intended for diﬀerent recipients. (Of course, applications
not using proof of possession can also beneﬁt from using audience restriction to reject messages
intended for diﬀerent recipients.)

 also utilize audience restriction, as described

SHOULD

[ACE-OAUTH]

CBOR Web Tokens with proof-of-possession keys are used in context of an architecture, such as
, in which protocols are used by a presenter to request
the ACE OAuth Framework
these tokens and to subsequently use them with recipients. Proof of possession only provides the
intended security gains when the proof is known to be current and not subject to replay attacks;
security protocols using mechanisms such as nonces and timestamps can be used to avoid the
risk of replay when performing proof of possession for a token. Note that a discussion of the
architecture or speciﬁc protocols that CWTs with proof-of-possession keys are used with is
beyond the scope of this speciﬁcation.

As is the case with other information included in a CWT, it is necessary to apply data origin
authentication and integrity protection (via a keyed message digest or a digital signature). Data
origin authentication ensures that the recipient of the CWT learns about the entity that created
the CWT, since this will be important for any policy decisions. Integrity protection prevents an
adversary from changing any elements conveyed within the CWT payload. Special care has to be
applied when carrying symmetric keys inside the CWT since those not only require integrity
protection but also conﬁdentiality protection.

As described in Section
, it
is important to make explicit trust decisions about the keys. Proof-of-possession signatures made
with keys not meeting the application's trust criteria

D (Notes on Key Selection)

6 (Key Identiﬁcation)

 be relied upon.

 and Appendix

MUST NOT

[JWS]

 of

5.  Privacy Considerations

A proof-of-possession key can be used as a correlation handle if the same key is used on multiple
occasions. Thus, for privacy reasons, it is recommended that diﬀerent proof-of-possession keys
be used when interacting with diﬀerent parties.

6.  Operational Considerations

The use of CWTs with proof-of-possession keys requires additional information to be shared
between the involved parties in order to ensure correct processing. The recipient needs to be
able to use credentials to verify the authenticity and integrity of the CWT. Furthermore, the

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

recipient may need to be able to decrypt either the whole CWT or the encrypted parts thereof
(see Section 3.3). This requires the recipient to know information about the issuer. Likewise,
there needs to be agreement between the issuer and the recipient about the claims being used
(which is also true of CWTs in general).

When an issuer creates a CWT containing a Key ID claim, it needs to make sure that it does not
issue another CWT with diﬀerent claims containing the same Key ID within the lifetime of the
CWTs, unless intentionally desired. Failure to do so may allow one party to impersonate another
party, with the potential to gain additional privileges. A case where such reuse of a Key ID would
be intentional is when a presenter obtains a CWT with diﬀerent claims (e.g., extended scope) for
the same recipient but wants to continue using an existing security association (e.g., a DTLS
session) bound to the key identiﬁed by the Key ID. Likewise, if PoP keys are used for multiple
diﬀerent kinds of CWTs in an application and the PoP keys are identiﬁed by Key IDs, care must
be taken to keep the keys for the diﬀerent kinds of CWTs segregated so that an attacker cannot
cause the wrong PoP key to be used by using a valid Key ID for the wrong kind of CWT. Using an
audience restriction for the CWT would be one strategy to mitigate this risk.

7.  IANA Considerations

The following registration procedure is used for all the registries established by this speciﬁcation.

Values are registered on a Speciﬁcation Required
period on the <cwt-reg-review@ietf.org> mailing list, on the advice of one or more designated
experts. However, to allow for the allocation of values prior to publication, the designated
experts may approve registration once they are satisﬁed that such a speciﬁcation will be
published.

 basis after a three-week review

[RFC8126]

Registration requests sent to the mailing list for review should use an appropriate subject (e.g.,
"Request to Register CWT Conﬁrmation Method: example"). Registration requests that are
undetermined for a period longer than 21 days can be brought directly to IANA's attention (using
the iana@iana.org mailing list) for resolution.

Designated experts should determine whether a registration request contains enough
information for the registry to be populated with the new values and whether the proposed new
functionality already exists. In the case of an incomplete registration or an attempt to register
already existing functionality, the designated experts should ask for corrections or reject the
registration.

It is suggested that multiple designated experts be appointed who are able to represent the
perspectives of diﬀerent applications using this speciﬁcation in order to enable broadly informed
review of registration decisions. In cases where a registration decision could be perceived as
creating a conﬂict of interest for a particular expert, that expert should defer to the judgment of
the other experts.

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

7.1.  CBOR Web Token Claims Registration

This speciﬁcation registers the cnf claim in the IANA "CBOR Web Token (CWT) Claims" registry
[IANA.CWT.Claims]

, established by

[RFC8392]
.

7.1.1.  Registry Contents

•

Claim Name: cnf

•

Claim Description: Conﬁrmation

•

JWT Claim Name: cnf

•

Claim Key: 8

•

Claim Value Type(s): map

•

Change Controller: IESG

•

Speciﬁcation Document(s): Section 3.1 of RFC 8747

7.2.  CWT Conﬁrmation Methods Registry

This speciﬁcation establishes the IANA "CWT Conﬁrmation Methods" registry for CWT cnf
member values. The registry records the conﬁrmation method member and a reference to the
speciﬁcation that deﬁnes it.

7.2.1.  Registration Template

Conﬁrmation Method Name:

The human-readable name requested (e.g., "kid").

Conﬁrmation Method Description:

Brief description of the conﬁrmation method (e.g., "Key Identiﬁer").

JWT Conﬁrmation Method Name:

Claim Name of the equivalent JWT conﬁrmation method value, as registered in the "JSON
Web Token Claims" subregistry in the "JSON Web Token (JWT)" registry
. CWT
claims should normally have a corresponding JWT claim. If a corresponding JWT claim
would not make sense, the designated experts can choose to accept registrations for which
the JWT Claim Name is listed as "N/A".

[IANA.JWT]

Conﬁrmation Key:

CBOR map key value for the conﬁrmation method.

Conﬁrmation Value Type(s):

CBOR types that can be used for the conﬁrmation method value.

Change Controller:

For Standards Track RFCs, list the "IESG". For others, give the name of the responsible
party.

Speciﬁcation Document(s):

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

Reference to the document or documents that specify the parameter, preferably including
URIs that can be used to retrieve copies of the documents. An indication of the relevant
sections may also be included but is not required. Note that the designated experts and
IANA must be able to obtain copies of the speciﬁcation document(s) to perform their work.

7.2.2.  Initial Registry Contents

•

Conﬁrmation Method Name: COSE_Key

•

Conﬁrmation Method Description: COSE_Key Representing Public Key

•

JWT Conﬁrmation Method Name: jwk

•

Conﬁrmation Key: 1

•

Conﬁrmation Value Type(s): COSE_Key structure

•

Change Controller: IESG

•

Speciﬁcation Document(s): Section 3.2 of RFC 8747

•

Conﬁrmation Method Name: Encrypted_COSE_Key

•

Conﬁrmation Method Description: Encrypted COSE_Key

•

JWT Conﬁrmation Method Name: jwe

•

Conﬁrmation Key: 2

•

Conﬁrmation Value Type(s): COSE_Encrypt or COSE_Encrypt0 structure (with an optional
corresponding COSE_Encrypt or COSE_Encrypt0 tag)

•

Change Controller: IESG

•

Speciﬁcation Document(s): Section 3.3 of RFC 8747

•

Conﬁrmation Method Name: kid

•

Conﬁrmation Method Description: Key Identiﬁer

•

JWT Conﬁrmation Method Name: kid

•

Conﬁrmation Key: 3

•

Conﬁrmation Value Type(s): binary string

•

Change Controller: IESG

•

Speciﬁcation Document(s): Section 3.4 of RFC 8747

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[IANA.CWT.Claims]
cwt>

.

IANA "CBOR Web Token Claims" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC7049]

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

Bormann, C. and P. Hoﬀman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
RFC 7049 DOI 10.17487/RFC7049
rfc7049>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2013,

,
.

,

,

[RFC8126]

[RFC8152]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8392]

Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)" RFC 8152 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8152>
.
10.17487/RFC8152

, July 2017,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Jones, M., Wahlstroem, E., Erdtman, S., and H. Tschofenig "CBOR Web Token
,
(CWT)" RFC 8392 DOI 10.17487/RFC8392
info/rfc8392>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, May 2018,

,

.

,

8.2.  Informative References

[ACE-OAUTH]

[IANA.JWT]

[JWS]

[JWT]

Seitz, L., Selander, G., Wahlstroem, E., Erdtman, S., and H. Tschofenig
"Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE) using
,
the OAuth 2.0 Framework (ACE-OAuth)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
ietf-ace-oauth-authz-21
ace-oauth-authz-21>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-

, 14 February 2019,

.

,

,

IANA "JSON Web Token (JWT)" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/jwt>

,

,

.

,
Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura "JSON Web Signature (JWS)" RFC 7515
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC7515

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>

, May 2015,

,

,

,
Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI
10.17487/RFC7519

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

, May 2015,

,

,

.

[OASIS.saml-core-2.0-os]

Cantor, S., Kemp, J., Philpott, R., and E. Maler "Assertions and

,

Protocol for the OASIS Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) V2.0" OASIS
Standard saml-core-2.0-os
saml/v2.0/saml-core-2.0-os.pdf>

<https://docs.oasis-open.org/security/

, March 2005,
.

,

[RFC7800]

[RFC8259]

,
Jones, M., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig "Proof-of-Possession Key Semantics for
<https://
JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)" RFC 7800 DOI 10.17487/RFC7800
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7800>

, April 2016,

,

,

.

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

[RFC8610]

Birkholz, H., Vigano, C., and C. Bormann "Concise Data Deﬁnition Language
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object

,

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8747

Proof-of-Possession Key for CWTs

March 2020

Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

, June 2019,

,

.

Acknowledgements

Thanks to the following people for their reviews of the speciﬁcation:
Holmberg Benjamin Kaduk Mirja Kühlewind Yoav Nir Michael Richardson Adam Roach Éric
Vyncke

Roman Danyliw Christer

,
, and

Jim Schaad

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Göran Selander
Ludwig Seitz
CyberWI and CRITISEC, with funding from Vinnova.

 and

 worked on this document as part of the CelticPlus projects

Authors' Addresses

Michael B. Jones
Microsoft
Email:
URI:

 mbj@microsoft.com
 https://self-issued.info/

Ludwig Seitz
Combitech
Djaeknegatan 31
211 35 Malmö
Sweden
Email:

 ludwig.seitz@combitech.se

Göran Selander
Ericsson AB
164 80 Kista
Sweden
Email:

 goran.selander@ericsson.com

Samuel Erdtman
Spotify
Email:

 erdtman@spotify.com

Hannes Tschofenig
Arm Ltd.
6060 Hall in Tirol
Austria
Email:

 Hannes.Tschofenig@arm.com

Jones, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

