Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8749
6698, 6840
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721
W. Mekking
ISC

D. Mahoney
ISC

RFC 8749
Moving DNSSEC Lookaside Validation (DLV) to
Historic Status

Abstract

This document retires DNSSEC Lookaside Validation (DLV) and reclassiﬁes RFCs 4431 and 5074 as
Historic. Furthermore, this document updates RFC 6698 by excluding the DLV resource record
from certiﬁcates and updates RFC 6840 by excluding the DLV registries from the trust anchor
selection.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8749

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Mekking & Mahoney

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8749

Obsolete DLV

March 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Discussion

4.  Moving DLV to Historic Status

4.1.  Documents That Reference the DLV RFCs

4.1.1.  Documents That Reference RFC 4431

4.1.2.  Documents That Reference RFC 5074

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  Normative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 in a time when the root zone and many top-level domains (TLDs)

DNSSEC Lookaside Validation (DLV) was introduced to assist with the adoption of DNSSEC
[RFC4033] [RFC4034] [RFC4035]
were unsigned. DLV allowed entities with signed zones under an unsigned parent zone or
entities with registrars that did not accept DS records to publish trust anchors outside of the
normal DNS delegation chain. The root zone was signed in July 2010, and as of May 2019, 1389
out of 1531 TLDs have a secure delegation from the root; thus, DLV has served its purpose and
can now retire.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Mekking & Mahoney

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8749

Obsolete DLV

March 2020

3.  Discussion

One could argue that DLV is still useful because there are still some unsigned TLDs and entities
under those zones that will not beneﬁt from signing their zone. However, keeping the DLV
mechanism also has disadvantages:

•

It reduces the pressure to get the parent zone signed.

•

It reduces the pressure on registrars to accept DS records.

•

It complicates validation code.

In addition, not every validator actually implemented DLV (only BIND 9 and Unbound), so even if
an entity can use DLV to set up an alternate path to its trust anchor, its eﬀect is limited.
Furthermore, there was one well-known DLV registry (dlv.isc.org), which was deprecated
(replaced with a signed empty zone) on September 30, 2017. With the absence of a well-known
DLV registry service, it is unlikely that there is a real beneﬁt for the protocol on the Internet
nowadays.

One other possible reason to keep DLV is to distribute trust anchors for private enterprises.
There are no known uses of DLV for this.

All things considered, it is probably not worth the eﬀort of maintaining the DLV mechanism.

4.  Moving DLV to Historic Status

There are two RFCs that specify DLV:

1.

RFC 4431

[RFC4431]

 speciﬁes the DLV resource record.

2.

RFC 5074
DNS delegation chain and how validators can use them to validate DNSSEC-signed data.

 speciﬁes the DLV mechanism for publishing trust anchors outside the

[RFC5074]

[RFC4431]
This document moves both RFC 4431
a clear signal to implementers that the DLV resource record and the DLV mechanism
NOT

 be implemented or deployed.

 and RFC 5074

[RFC5074]

 to Historic status. This is

SHOULD

4.1.  Documents That Reference the DLV RFCs

The RFCs being moved to Historic status are referenced by a couple of other RFCs. The sections
below describe the changes to those documents due to the DLV RFCs being reclassiﬁed as
Historic.

4.1.1.  Documents That Reference RFC 4431

One RFC makes reference to RFC 4431

[RFC4431]

.

Mekking & Mahoney

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8749

Obsolete DLV

March 2020

4.1.1.1.  RFC 5074

RFC 5074 ("DNSSEC Lookaside Validation (DLV)")
This document moves RFC 5074

[RFC5074]
 to Historic status as well.

[RFC5074]

 describes the DLV mechanism itself.

4.1.2.  Documents That Reference RFC 5074

Three RFCs make reference to RFC 5074

[RFC5074]

.

4.1.2.1.  RFC 6698

RFC 6698 ("The DNS-Based Authentication of Named Entities (DANE) Transport Layer Security
(TLS) Protocol: TLSA")

[RFC6698]

 speciﬁes:

DNSSEC forms certiﬁcates (the binding of an identity to a key) by combining a DNSKEY,
DS, or DLV resource record with an associated RRSIG record. These records then form a
signing chain extending from the client's trust anchors to the RR of interest.

This document updates RFC 6698

[RFC6698]

 to exclude the DLV resource record from certiﬁcates.

4.1.2.2.  RFC 6840

RFC 6840 ("Clariﬁcations and Implementation Notes for DNS Security (DNSSEC)")
states that when trust anchors come from diﬀerent sources, a validator may choose between
them based on the perceived reliability of those sources. But in reality, this does not happen in
validators (both BIND 9 and Unbound have an option for a DLV trust anchor that can be used
solely as a fallback).

[RFC6840]

This document updates RFC 6840
selection.

4.1.2.3.  RFC 8198

[RFC6840]

 to exclude the DLV registries from the trust anchor

RFC 8198 ("Aggressive Use of DNSSEC-Validated Cache")
[RFC5074]

 because aggressive negative caching was ﬁrst proposed there.

[RFC8198]

 only references RFC 5074

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has updated the annotation of the DLV RR type (code 32769) to "Obsolete" in the "Domain
Name System (DNS) Parameters" registry.

6.  Security Considerations

Once the DLV mechanism is retired, zones that rely on DLV for their validation will be treated as
insecure. The chance that this scenario actually occurs is very low, since no well-known DLV
registry exists.

Mekking & Mahoney

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8749

Obsolete DLV

March 2020

7.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4033]

[RFC4034]

[RFC4035]

[RFC4431]

[RFC5074]

[RFC6698]

[RFC6840]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8198]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "DNS Security
,
Introduction and Requirements" RFC 4033 DOI 10.17487/RFC4033
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4033>

,

.

,

, March 2005,

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "Resource Records for
,
the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4034 DOI 10.17487/RFC4034
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4034>

, March 2005,

,

.

,

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "Protocol
Modiﬁcations for the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4035 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4035

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4035>

, March 2005,

,
,

,

.

Andrews, M. and S. Weiler "The DNSSEC Lookaside Validation (DLV) DNS
Resource Record" RFC 4431 DOI 10.17487/RFC4431
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4431>

, February 2006,

,

,

.

,

<https://

Weiler, S. "DNSSEC Lookaside Validation (DLV)" RFC 5074 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5074

,
, November 2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5074>

,

,

.

Hoﬀman, P. and J. Schlyter "The DNS-Based Authentication of Named Entities
(DANE) Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol: TLSA" RFC 6698 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6698

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6698>

, August 2012,

,
.

,

,

Weiler, S., Ed. and D. Blacka, Ed. "Clariﬁcations and Implementation Notes for
DNS Security (DNSSEC)" RFC 6840 DOI 10.17487/RFC6840
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6840>

, February 2013,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,
Fujiwara, K., Kato, A., and W. Kumari "Aggressive Use of DNSSEC-Validated
,
Cache" RFC 8198 DOI 10.17487/RFC8198
info/rfc8198>

, July 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors thank

Ondřej Surý

 for the initial review.

Mekking & Mahoney

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8749

Obsolete DLV

March 2020

Authors' Addresses

W. (Matthijs) Mekking
ISC
Netherlands
Email:

 matthijs@isc.org

Dan Mahoney
ISC
United States of America
Email:

 dmahoney@isc.org

Mekking & Mahoney

Standards Track

Page 6

