Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8933
5652
Standards Track
October 2020
2070-1721
R. Housley
Vigil Security

RFC 8933
Update to the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)
for Algorithm Identiﬁer Protection

Abstract

This document updates the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) speciﬁed in RFC 5652 to ensure
that algorithm identiﬁers in signed-data and authenticated-data content types are adequately
protected.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8933

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8933

CMS Algorithm Identiﬁer Protection

October 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Required Use of the Same Hash Algorithm

3.1.  RFC 5652, Section 5.3

3.2.  RFC 5652, Section 5.4

3.3.  RFC 5652, Section 5.6

3.4.  Backward Compatibility Considerations

3.5.  Timestamp Compatibility Considerations

4.  Recommended Inclusion of the CMSAlgorithmProtection Attribute

4.1.  RFC 5652, Section 14

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

This document updates the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)
 to ensure that
algorithm identiﬁers in signed-data and authenticated-data content types are adequately
protected.

[RFC5652]

The CMS signed-data content type
vulnerable to algorithm substitution attacks. In an algorithm substitution attack, the attacker
changes either the algorithm identiﬁer or the parameters associated with the algorithm identiﬁer
to change the veriﬁcation process used by the recipient. The X.509 certiﬁcate structure protects
the algorithm identiﬁer and the associated parameters by signing them.

, unlike X.509 certiﬁcates

[RFC5652]

[RFC5280]

, can be

Housley

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8933

CMS Algorithm Identiﬁer Protection

October 2020

[SHS]

In an algorithm substitution attack, the attacker looks for a diﬀerent algorithm that produces the
same result as the algorithm used by the originator. As an example, if the signer of a message
used SHA-256
 as the digest algorithm to hash the message content, then the attacker looks
for a weaker hash algorithm that produces a result that is of the same length. The attacker's goal
is to ﬁnd a diﬀerent message that results in the same hash value, which is called a cross-
algorithm collision. Today, there are many hash functions that produce 256-bit results. One of
them may be found to be weak in the future.

Further, when a digest algorithm produces a larger result than is needed by a digital signature
algorithm, the digest value is reduced to the size needed by the signature algorithm. This can be
done both by truncation and modulo operations, with the simplest being straightforward
truncation. In this situation, the attacker needs to ﬁnd a collision with the reduced digest value.
As an example, if the message signer uses SHA-512
 as the digest algorithm and the Elliptic
Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) with the P-256 curve
then the attacker needs to ﬁnd a collision with the ﬁrst half of the digest.

 as the signature algorithm,

[SHS]

[DSS]

Similar attacks can be mounted against parameterized algorithm identiﬁers. When randomized
hash functions are employed, such as the example in
, the algorithm identiﬁer
parameter includes a random value that can be manipulated by an attacker looking for
collisions. Some other algorithm identiﬁers include complex parameter structures, and each
value provides another opportunity for manipulation by an attacker.

[RFC6210]

This document makes two updates to CMS to provide protection for the algorithm identiﬁer.
First, it mandates a convention followed by many implementations by requiring the originator to
use the same hash algorithm to compute the digest of the message content and the digest of
signed attributes. Second, it recommends that the originator include the CMSAlgorithmProtection
attribute

[RFC6211]

.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Required Use of the Same Hash Algorithm

This section updates
compute the digest of the message content and the digest of signed attributes.

 to require the originator to use the same hash algorithm to

[RFC5652]

3.1.  RFC 5652, Section 5.3

Change the paragraph describing the digestAlgorithm as follows:

OLD:

Housley

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8933

CMS Algorithm Identiﬁer Protection

October 2020

digestAlgorithm identiﬁes the message digest algorithm, and any associated parameters,
used by the signer. The message digest is computed on either the content being signed or
the content together with the signed attributes using the process described in Section
5.4. The message digest algorithm
ﬁeld of the associated SignerData. Implementations
use a digest algorithm that is not included in the SignedData digestAlgorithms set.

 be among those listed in the digestAlgorithms

 fail to validate signatures that

SHOULD

MAY

NEW:

digestAlgorithm identiﬁes the message digest algorithm, and any associated parameters,
used by the signer. The message digest is computed on either the content being signed or
the content together with the signedAttrs using the process described in Section 5.4. The
 be among those listed in the digestAlgorithms ﬁeld of
message digest algorithm
the associated SignerData. If the signedAttrs ﬁeld is present in the SignerInfo, then the
same digest algorithm
encapContentInfo eContent, which is carried in the message-digest attribute, and the
digest of the DER-encoded signedAttrs, which is passed to the signature algorithm.
Implementations
included in the SignedData digestAlgorithms set.

 fail to validate signatures that use a digest algorithm that is not

 be used to compute both the digest of the SignedData

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

3.2.  RFC 5652, Section 5.4

Add the following paragraph as the second paragraph in Section 5.4.

ADD:

When the signedAttrs ﬁeld is present, the same digest algorithm
compute the digest of the encapContentInfo eContent OCTET STRING, which is carried in
the message-digest attribute and the digest of the collection of attributes that are signed.

 be used to

MUST

3.3.  RFC 5652, Section 5.6

Change the paragraph discussing the signed attributes as follows:

OLD:

MUST NOT

 rely on any message digest values computed by the originator.
The recipient
If the SignedData signerInfo includes signedAttributes, then the content message digest
 be calculated as described in Section 5.4. For the signature to be valid, the message
MUST

Housley

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8933

CMS Algorithm Identiﬁer Protection

October 2020

digest value calculated by the recipient
messageDigest attribute included in the signedAttributes of the SignedData signerInfo.

 be the same as the value of the

MUST

NEW:

MUST

MUST NOT

 rely on any message digest values computed by the originator.

The recipient
If the SignedData signerInfo includes the signedAttrs ﬁeld, then the content message
digest
 be calculated as described in Section 5.4 using the same digest algorithm to
compute the digest of the encapContentInfo eContent OCTET STRING and the message-
digest attribute. For the signature to be valid, the message digest value calculated by the
recipient
signedAttrs ﬁeld of the SignedData signerInfo.

 be the same as the value of the messageDigest attribute included in the

MUST

3.4.  Backward Compatibility Considerations

The new requirement introduced above might lead to incompatibility with an implementation
that allowed diﬀerent digest algorithms to be used to compute the digest of the message content
and the digest of signed attributes. The signatures produced by such an implementation when
two diﬀerent digest algorithms are used will be considered invalid by an implementation that
follows this speciﬁcation. However, most, if not all, implementations already require the
originator to use the same digest algorithm for both operations.

3.5.  Timestamp Compatibility Considerations

The new requirement introduced above might lead to compatibility issues for timestamping
systems when the originator does not wish to share the message content with the Time Stamping
Authority (TSA)
. In this situation, the originator sends a TimeStampReq to the TSA that
includes a MessageImprint, which consists of a digest algorithm identiﬁer and a digest value. The
TSA then uses the originator-provided digest in the MessageImprint.

[RFC3161]

When producing the TimeStampToken, the TSA
the digest of the encapContentInfo eContent, which is an OCTET STRING that contains the
TSTInfo, and the message-digest attribute within the SignerInfo.

 use the same digest algorithm to compute

MUST

To ensure that TimeStampToken values that were generated before this update remain valid, no
requirement is placed on a TSA to ensure that the digest algorithm for the TimeStampToken
matches the digest algorithm for the MessageImprint embedded within the TSTInfo.

4.  Recommended Inclusion of the CMSAlgorithmProtection
Attribute

This section updates
CMSAlgorithmProtection attribute
attributes are present.

[RFC5652]

 to recommend that the originator include the

[RFC6211]

 whenever signed attributes or authenticated

Housley

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8933

CMS Algorithm Identiﬁer Protection

October 2020

4.1.  RFC 5652, Section 14

Add the following paragraph as the eighth paragraph in Section 14:

ADD:

While there are no known algorithm substitution attacks today, the inclusion of the
algorithm identiﬁers used by the originator as a signed attribute or an authenticated
attribute makes such an attack signiﬁcantly more diﬃcult. Therefore, the originator of a
signed-data content type that includes signed attributes
CMSAlgorithmProtection attribute
[RFC6211]
the originator of an authenticated-data content type that includes authenticated
attributes
SHOULD
the authenticated attributes.

 include the CMSAlgorithmProtection attribute

 as one of the signed attributes. Likewise,

 include the

[RFC6211]

 as one of

SHOULD

5.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

6.  Security Considerations

The security properties of the CMS
are updated to oﬀer protection for algorithm identiﬁers, which makes algorithm substitution
attacks signiﬁcantly more diﬃcult.

 signed-data and authenticated-data content types

[RFC5652]

For the signed-data content type, the improvements speciﬁed in this document force an attacker
to mount a hash algorithm substitution attack on the overall signature, not just on the message
digest of the encapContentInfo eContent.

[RFC8017]

Some digital signature algorithms have prevented hash function substitutions by including a
digest algorithm identiﬁer as an input to the signature algorithm. As discussed in
, such
a "ﬁrewall" may not be eﬀective or even possible with newer signature algorithms. For example,
RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5
[RFC8017]
does not. Therefore, it remains important that a signer have a way to signal to a recipient which
digest algorithms are allowed to be used in conjunction with the veriﬁcation of an overall
signature. This signaling can be done as part of the speciﬁcation of the signature algorithm in an
X.509v3 certiﬁcate extension
(DSS)
[DSS]
algorithm.

 takes the ﬁrst approach by requiring the use of an "approved" one-way hash

 protects the digest algorithm identiﬁer, but RSASSA-PSS

 or some other means. The Digital Signature Standard

[RFC5280]

[HASHID]

For the authenticated-data content type, the improvements speciﬁed in this document force an
attacker to mount a MAC algorithm substitution attack, which is diﬃcult because the attacker
does not know the authentication key.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8933

CMS Algorithm Identiﬁer Protection

October 2020

 oﬀers protection for the algorithm identiﬁers

[RFC6211]
The CMSAlgorithmProtection attribute
used in the signed-data and authenticated-data content types. However, no protection is
provided for the algorithm identiﬁers in the enveloped-data, digested-data, or encrypted-data
content types. Likewise, the CMSAlgorithmProtection attribute provides no protection for the
algorithm identiﬁers used in the authenticated-enveloped-data content type deﬁned in
[RFC5083]
the future.

. A mechanism for algorithm identiﬁer protection for these content types is work for

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3161]

[RFC5652]

[RFC6211]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Adams, C., Cain, P., Pinkas, D., and R. Zuccherato "Internet X.509 Public Key
Infrastructure Time-Stamp Protocol (TSP)" RFC 3161 DOI 10.17487/RFC3161
August 2001,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3161>

,

.

,

,

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

Schaad, J. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) Algorithm Identiﬁer Protection
Attribute" RFC 6211 DOI 10.17487/RFC6211
editor.org/info/rfc6211>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2011,

,
,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

7.2.  Informative References

[DSS]

[HASHID]

[RFC5083]

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Digital Signature
Standard (DSS)" FIPS 186-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4
,
,
doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.186-4>

, July 2013,

,

.

<https://

,

Kaliski, B. "On Hash Function Firewalls in Signature Schemes" DOI
10.1007/3-540-45760-7_1 Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Volume 2271
February 2002,
<https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45760-7_1>

.

,

,

,

,

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) Authenticated-Enveloped-
Data Content Type" RFC 5083 DOI 10.17487/RFC5083
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5083>

, November 2007,

,

,

.

<https://

Housley

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8933

CMS Algorithm Identiﬁer Protection

October 2020

[RFC5280]

[RFC6210]

[RFC8017]

[SHS]

Cooper, D., Santesson, S., Farrell, S., Boeyen, S., Housley, R., and W. Polk
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation
List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

.

,

Schaad, J. "Experiment: Hash Functions with Parameters in the Cryptographic
Message Syntax (CMS) and S/MIME" RFC 6210 DOI 10.17487/RFC6210
2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6210>
.

, April

,

Moriarty, K., Ed., Kaliski, B., Jonsson, J., and A. Rusch "PKCS #1: RSA
Cryptography Speciﬁcations Version 2.2" RFC 8017 DOI 10.17487/RFC8017
November 2016,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8017>

.

,

,

,

,

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Secure Hash Standard
(SHS)" FIPS 180-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4
doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4>

,
, August 2015,

<https://

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

Jim Schaad

Many thanks to
this document. Thanks to
editorial suggestions.

 and

Peter Gutmann
Roman Danyliw Ben Kaduk

; without knowing it, they motivated me to write
 for their careful review and

Peter Yee

, and

,

Author's Address

Russ Housley
Vigil Security, LLC
516 Dranesville Road
Herndon VA 20170
,
United States of America
Email:

 housley@vigilsec.com

Housley

Standards Track

Page 8

