Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:
Y. Cai
Alibaba Group

A. Green
British Telecom

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8775
Standards Track
April 2020
2070-1721

H. Ou
Alibaba Group

S. Vallepalli M. Mishra

Cisco Systems, Inc.

S. Venaas
Cisco Systems, Inc.

RFC 8775
PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

Abstract

On a multi-access network, one of the PIM-SM (PIM Sparse Mode) routers is elected as a
Designated Router. One of the responsibilities of the Designated Router is to track local multicast
listeners and forward data to these listeners if the group is operating in PIM-SM. This document
speciﬁes a modiﬁcation to the PIM-SM protocol that allows more than one of the PIM-SM routers
to take on this responsibility so that the forwarding load can be distributed among multiple
routers.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8775

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Applicability

4.  Functional Overview

4.1.  GDR Candidates

5.  Protocol Speciﬁcation

5.1.  Hash Mask and Hash Algorithm

5.2.  Modulo Hash Algorithm

5.2.1.  Modulo Hash Algorithm Examples

5.2.2.  Limitations

5.3.  PIM Hello Options

5.3.1.  PIM DR Load-Balancing Capability (DRLB-Cap) Hello Option

5.3.2.  PIM DR Load-Balancing List (DRLB-List) Hello Option

5.4.  PIM DR Operation

5.5.  PIM GDR Candidate Operation

5.6.  DRLB-List Hello Option Processing

5.7.  PIM Assert Modiﬁcation

5.8.  Backward Compatibility

6.  Operational Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Initial Registry

7.2.  Assignment of New Hash Algorithms

8.  Security Considerations

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 routers, one of the PIM-SM routers is elected as a Designated Router (DR). The PIM DR

On a multi-access LAN (such as an Ethernet) with one or more PIM-SM (PIM Sparse Mode)
[RFC7761]
has two responsibilities in the PIM-SM protocol. For any active sources on a LAN, the PIM DR is
responsible for registering with the Rendezvous Point (RP) if the group is operating in PIM-SM.
Also, the PIM DR is responsible for tracking local multicast listeners and forwarding data to these
listeners if the group is operating in PIM-SM.

Consider the following LAN in Figure 1:

                          (core networks)
                           |     |     |
                           |     |     |
                          R1    R2     R3
                           |     |     |
                           ----(LAN)----
                                 |
                                 |
                         (many receivers)

Figure 1: LAN with Receivers

Assume R1 is elected as the DR. According to the PIM-SM protocol, R1 will be responsible for
forwarding traﬃc to that LAN on behalf of all local members. In addition to keeping track of
membership reports, R1 is also responsible for initiating the creation of source and/or shared
trees towards the senders or the RPs. The membership reports would be IGMP or Multicast
Listener Discovery (MLD) messages. This applies to any versions of the IGMP and MLD protocols.
The most recent versions are IGMPv3

 and MLDv2

.
[RFC3810]

[RFC3376]

Having a single router acting as DR and being responsible for data-plane forwarding leads to
several issues. One of the issues is that the aggregated bandwidth will be limited to what R1 can
handle with regards to capacity of incoming links, the interface on the LAN, and total forwarding
capacity. It is very common that a LAN consists of switches that run IGMP/MLD or PIM snooping
[RFC4541]
leading to receivers that have indicated their interest in multicast groups using either IGMP or

. This allows the forwarding of multicast packets to be restricted only to segments

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

MLD. The emergence of the switched Ethernet allows the aggregated bandwidth to exceed,
sometimes by a large number, that of a single link. For example, let us modify Figure 1 and
introduce an Ethernet switch in Figure 2.

                         (core networks)
                          |     |     |
                          |     |     |
                         R1    R2     R3
                          |     |     |
                       +=gi1===gi2===gi3=+
                       +                 +
                       +      switch     +
                       +                 +
                       +=gi4===gi5===gi6=+
                          |     |     |
                         H1    H2     H3

Figure 2: LAN with Ethernet Switch

Let us assume that each individual link is a Gigabit Ethernet. Each router (R1, R2, and R3) and the
switch have enough forwarding capacity to handle hundreds of gigabits of data.

Let us further assume that each of the hosts requests 500 Mbps of unique multicast data. This
totals to 1.5 Gbps of data, which is less than what each switch or the combined uplink bandwidth
across the routers can handle, even under failure of a single router.

On the other hand, the link between R1 and switch, via port gi1, can only handle a throughput of
1 Gbps. And if R1 is the only DR (the PIM DR elected using the procedure deﬁned by
[RFC7761]
at least 500 Mbps worth of data will be lost because the only link that can be used to draw the
traﬃc from the routers to the switch is via gi1. In other words, the entire network's throughput is
limited by the single connection between the PIM DR and the switch (or LAN, as in Figure 1).

),

Another important issue is related to failover. If R1 is the only forwarder on a shared LAN, when
R1 goes out of service, multicast forwarding for the entire LAN has to be rebuilt by the newly
elected PIM DR. However, if there were a way that allowed multiple routers to forward to the
LAN for diﬀerent groups, failure of one of the routers would only lead to disruption to a subset of
the ﬂows, therefore improving the overall resilience of the network.

This document speciﬁes a modiﬁcation to the PIM-SM protocol that allows more than one of
these routers, called Group Designated Routers (GDRs), to be selected so that the forwarding load
can be distributed among a number of routers.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

With respect to PIM-SM, this document follows the terminology that has been deﬁned in
[RFC7761]
.

This document also introduces the following new acronyms:

GDR: Group Designated Router.

(ASM) or an (S,G) for Source-Speciﬁc Multicast (SSM)
(described below) is used to select one of the routers as a GDR. The GDR is responsible for
initiating the forwarding tree building process for the corresponding multicast ﬂow.

For each multicast ﬂow, either a (*,G) for Any-Source Multicast
[RFC4607]

, a hash algorithm

GDR Candidate:

a router that has the potential to become a GDR. There might be multiple GDR

Candidates on a LAN, but only one can become the GDR for a speciﬁc multicast ﬂow.

3.  Applicability

The extension speciﬁed in this document applies to PIM-SM routers acting as last-hop routers
(there are directly connected receivers). It does not alter the behavior of a PIM DR or any other
routers on the ﬁrst-hop network (directly connected sources). This is because the source tree is
built using the IP address of the sender, not the IP address of the PIM DR that sends PIM registers
towards the RP. The load balancing between ﬁrst-hop routers can be achieved naturally if an IGP
provides equal cost multiple paths (which it usually does in practice). Also, distributing the load
to do source registration does not justify the additional complexity required to support it.

4.  Functional Overview

[RFC7761]

, when multiple routers are connected to a multi-

In the PIM DR election as deﬁned in
access LAN (for example, an Ethernet), one of them is elected to act as PIM DR. The PIM DR is
responsible for sending local Join/Prune messages towards the RP or source. In order to elect the
PIM DR, each PIM router on the LAN examines the received PIM Hello messages and compares
its own DR priority and IP address with those of its neighbors. The router with the highest DR
priority is the PIM DR. If there are multiple such routers, their IP addresses are used as the
tiebreaker, as described in

.
[RFC7761]

In order to share forwarding load among last-hop routers, besides the normal PIM DR election,
one or more GDRs are elected on the multi-access LAN. There is only one PIM DR on the multi-
access LAN, but there might be multiple GDR Candidates.

For each multicast ﬂow, that is, (*,G) for ASM and (S,G) for SSM, a hash algorithm (Section 5.1) is
used to select one of the routers to be the GDR. The new DR Load-Balancing Capability (DRLB-
Cap) PIM Hello Option is used to announce the Capability, as well as the hash algorithm type.
Routers with the new DRLB-Cap Option advertised in their PIM Hello, using the same GDR
election hash algorithm and the same DR priority as the PIM DR, are considered as GDR
Candidates.

Hash masks are deﬁned for Source, Group, and RP, separately, in order to handle PIM ASM/SSM.
The masks, as well as a sorted list of GDR Candidate addresses, are announced by the DR in a
new DR Load-Balancing List (DRLB-List) PIM Hello Option.

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

A hash algorithm based on the announced Source, Group, or RP masks allows one GDR to be
assigned to a corresponding multicast state. That GDR is responsible for initiating the creation of
the multicast forwarding tree for multicast traﬃc.

4.1.  GDR Candidates

GDR is the new concept introduced by this speciﬁcation. GDR Candidates are routers eligible for
GDR election on the LAN. To become a GDR Candidate, a router must have the same DR priority
and run the same GDR election hash algorithm as the DR on the LAN.

For example, assume there are 4 routers on the LAN: R1, R2, R3, and R4, each announcing a
DRLB-Cap Option. R1, R2, and R3 have the same DR priority, while R4's DR priority is less
preferred. In this example, R4 will not be eligible for GDR election, because R4 will not become a
PIM DR unless all of R1, R2, and R3 go out of service.

Furthermore, assume router R1 wins the PIM DR election, R1 and R2 advertise the same hash
algorithm for GDR election, while R3 advertises a diﬀerent one. In this case, only R1 and R2 will
be eligible for GDR election, while R3 will not.

As a DR, R1 will include its own Load-Balancing Hash Masks and the identity of R1 and R2 (the
GDR Candidates) in its DRLB-List Hello Option.

5.  Protocol Speciﬁcation

5.1.  Hash Mask and Hash Algorithm

A hash mask is used to extract a number of bits from the corresponding IP address ﬁeld (32 for
IPv4, 128 for IPv6) and calculate a hash value. A hash value is used to select a GDR from GDR
Candidates advertised by the PIM DR. Hash masks allow for certain ﬂows to always be forwarded
by the same GDR, by ignoring certain bits in the hash value calculation, so that the hash values
are the same. For example, 0.0.255.0 deﬁnes a hash mask for an IPv4 address that masks the ﬁrst,
second, and fourth octets, which means that only the third octet will inﬂuence the hash value
computed. Note that the masks need not be a contiguous set of bits. For example, for IPv4,
15.15.15.15 would be a valid mask.

In the text below, a hash mask is, in some places, said to be zero. A hash mask is zero if no bits
are set, that is, 0.0.0.0 for IPv4 and :: for IPv6. Also, a hash mask is said to be an all-bits-set mask if
it is 255.255.255.255 for IPv4 or ﬀﬀ:ﬀﬀ:ﬀﬀ:ﬀﬀ:ﬀﬀ:ﬀﬀ:ﬀﬀ:ﬀﬀ for IPv6.

There are three hash masks deﬁned:

•

RP Hash Mask

•

Source Hash Mask

•

Group Hash Mask

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

The hash masks need to be conﬁgured on the PIM routers that can potentially become a PIM DR,
unless the implementation provides default hash mask values. An implementation
 have
default hash mask values as follows. The default RP Hash Mask
 be zero (no bits set). The
default Source and Group Hash Masks
 both be all-bits-set masks. These default values
are likely acceptable for most deployments and simplify conﬁguration. There is only a need to
use other masks if one needs to ensure that certain ﬂows are forwarded by the same GDR.

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

The DRLB-List Hello Option contains a list of GDR Candidates. The ﬁrst one listed has ordinal
number 0, the second listed ordinal number 1, and the last one has ordinal number N - 1 if there
are N candidates listed. The hash value computed will be the ordinal number of the GDR
Candidate that is acting as GDR for the ﬂow in question.

The input to be hashed is determined as follows:

•

If the group is in ASM mode and the RP Hash Mask announced by the PIM DR is not zero (at
least one bit is set), calculate the value of hashvalue_RP (Section 5.2) to determine the GDR.

•

If the group is in ASM mode and the RP Hash Mask announced by the PIM DR is zero (no bits
are set), obtain the value of hashvalue_Group (Section 5.2) to determine the GDR.

•

If the group is in SSM mode, use hashvalue_SG (Section 5.2) to determine the GDR.

A simple modulo hash algorithm is deﬁned in this document. However, to allow another hash
algorithm to be used, a 1-octet "Hash Algorithm" ﬁeld is included in the DRLB-Cap Hello Option to
specify the hash algorithm used by the router.

If diﬀerent hash algorithms are advertised among the routers on a LAN, only the routers
advertising the same hash algorithm as the DR (as well as having the same DR priority as the DR)
are eligible for GDR election.

5.2.  Modulo Hash Algorithm

As part of computing the hash, the notation LSZC(hash_mask) is used to denote the number of
zeroes counted from the least signiﬁcant bit of a hash mask hash_mask. As an example, LSZC
(255.255.128) is 7 and LSZC(ﬀﬀ:8000::) is 111. If all bits are set, LSZC will be 0. If the mask is zero,
then LSZC will be 32 for IPv4 and 128 for IPv6.

The number of GDR Candidates is denoted as GDRC.

The idea behind the modulo hash algorithm is, in simple terms, that the corresponding mask is
applied to a value, then the result is shifted right LSZC(mask) bits so that the least signiﬁcant bits
that were masked out are not considered. Then, this result is masked by 0xﬀﬀﬀﬀ, keeping only
the last 32 bits of the result (this only makes a diﬀerence for IPv6). Finally, the hash value is this
result modulo the number of GDR Candidates (GDRC).

The modulo hash algorithm, for computing the values hashvalue_RP, hashvalue_Group, and
hashvalue_SG, is deﬁned as follows.

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

hashvalue_RP is calculated as:

   (((RP_address & RP_mask) >> LSZC(RP_mask)) & 0xffffffff) % GDRC

RP_address is the address of the RP deﬁned for the group, and RP_mask is the RP Hash Mask.

hashvalue_Group is calculated as:

   (((Group_address & Group_mask) >> LSZC(Group_mask)) & 0xffffffff)
   % GDRC

Group_address is the group address, and Group_mask is the Group Hash Mask.

hashvalue_SG is calculated as:

   ((((Source_address & Source_mask) >> LSZC(Source_mask)) &
   0xffffffff) ^ (((Group_address & Group_mask) >> LSZC(Group_mask))
   & 0xffffffff)) % GDRC

Group_address is the group address, and Group_mask is the Group Hash Mask.

5.2.1.  Modulo Hash Algorithm Examples

To help illustrate the algorithm, consider this example. Router X with IPv4 address 203.0.113.1
receives a DRLB-List Hello Option from the DR that announces RP Hash Mask 0.0.255.0 and a list
of GDR Candidates, sorted by IP addresses from high to low: 203.0.113.3, 203.0.113.2, and
203.0.113.1. The ordinal number assigned to those addresses would be:

0 for 203.0.113.3; 1 for 203.0.113.2; 2 for 203.0.113.1 (Router X).

Assume there are 2 RPs: RP1 192.0.2.1 for Group1 and RP2 198.51.100.2 for Group2. Following the
modulo hash algorithm:

•

LSZC(0.0.255.0) is 8, and GDRC is 3. The hashvalue_RP for Group1 with RP RP1 is:

(((192.0.2.1 & 0.0.255.0) >> 8) & 0xffffffff % 3)
= 2 % 3
= 2

This matches the ordinal number assigned to Router X. Router X will be the GDR for Group1.

•

The hashvalue_RP for Group2 with RP RP2 is:

(((198.51.100.2 & 0.0.255.0) >> 8) & 0xffffffff % 3)
= 100 % 3
= 1

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

This is diﬀerent from the ordinal number of Router X (2). Hence, Router X will not be GDR
for Group2.

For IPv6, consider this example, similar to the above. Router X with IPv6 address fe80::1 receives
a DRLB-List Hello Option from the DR that announces RP Hash Mask ::ﬀﬀ:ﬀﬀ:ﬀﬀ:0 and a list of
GDR Candidates, sorted by IP addresses from high to low: fe80::3, fe80::2, and fe80::1. The ordinal
number assigned to those addresses would be:

0 for fe80::3; 1 for fe80::2; 2 for fe80::1 (Router X).

Assume there are 2 RPs: RP1 2001:db8::1:0:5678:1 for Group1 and RP2 2001:db8::1:0:1234:2 for
Group2. Following the modulo hash algorithm:

•

LSZC(::ﬀﬀ:ﬀﬀ:ﬀﬀ:0) is 16, and GDRC is 3. The hashvalue_RP for Group1 with RP RP1 is:

(((2001:db8::1:0:5678:1 & ::ffff:ffff:ffff:0) >> 16) &
 0xffffffff % 3)
= ((::1:0:5678:0 >> 16) & 0xffffffff % 3)
= (::1:0:5678 & 0xffffffff % 3)
= ::5678 % 3
= 2

This matches the ordinal number assigned to Router X. Router X will be the GDR for Group1.

•

The hashvalue_RP for Group2 with RP RP2 is:

(((2001:db8::1:0:1234:1 & ::ffff:ffff:ffff:0) >> 16) &
 0xffffffff % 3)
= ((::1:0:1234:0 >> 16) & 0xffffffff % 3)
= (::1:0:1234 & 0xffffffff % 3)
= ::1234 % 3
= 1

This is diﬀerent from the ordinal number of Router X (2). Hence, Router X will not be GDR
for Group2.

5.2.2.  Limitations

The modulo hash algorithm has poor failover characteristics when a shared LAN has more than
two GDRs. In the case of more than two GDRs on a LAN, when one GDR fails, all of the groups
may be reassigned to a diﬀerent GDR, even if they were not assigned to the failed GDR. However,
many deployments use only two routers on a shared LAN for redundancy purposes. Future work
may deﬁne new hash algorithms where only groups assigned to the failed GDR get reassigned.

The modulo hash algorithm will use, at most, 32 consecutive bits of the input addresses for its
computation. Exactly which bits are used of the source, group, or RP addresses depend on the
respective masks. This limitation may be an issue for IPv6 deployments, since not all bits of the
IPv6 addresses are considered. If this causes operational issues, a new hash algorithm would
need to be deﬁned.

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

5.3.  PIM Hello Options

PIM routers include a new option, called "Load-Balancing Capability (DRLB-Cap)", in their PIM
Hello messages.

Besides this DRLB-Cap Hello Option, the elected PIM DR also includes a new "DR Load-Balancing
List (DRLB-List) Hello Option". The DRLB-List Hello Option consists of three hash masks, as
deﬁned above, and also a list of GDR Candidate addresses on the LAN. It is recommended that the
GDR Candidate addresses are sorted in descending order. This ensures that when using
algorithms, such as the modulo hash algorithm in this document, that it is predictable which GDR
is responsible for which groups, regardless of the order the DR learned about the candidates.

5.3.1.  PIM DR Load-Balancing Capability (DRLB-Cap) Hello Option

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|           Type = 34           |         Length = 4            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     Reserved                  |Hash Algorithm |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: PIM DR Load-Balancing Capability Hello Option

Type:

34

Length:

4

Reserved:

Transmitted as zero, ignored on receipt.

Hash Algorithm:

Hash algorithm type. A value listed in the IANA "PIM Designated Router Load-

Balancing Hash Algorithms" registry. 0 is used for the hash algorithm deﬁned in this
document.

This DRLB-Cap Hello Option
Balancing is enabled. Note that the option is included, at most, once.

MUST

 be advertised by routers on all interfaces where DR Load

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

5.3.2.  PIM DR Load-Balancing List (DRLB-List) Hello Option

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|           Type = 35           |         Length                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          Group Mask                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          Source Mask                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            RP Mask                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    GDR Candidate Address(es)                  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: PIM DR Load-Balancing List Hello Option

Type:

35

Length:

(3 + n) x (4 or 16) bytes, where n is the number of GDR Candidates.

Group Mask (32/128 bits):

Mask applied to group addresses as part of hash computation.

Source Mask (32/128 bits):

Mask applied to source addresses as part of hash computation.

RP Mask (32/128 bits):

Mask applied to RP addresses as part of hash computation.

All masks
header.

MUST

 have the same number of bits as the IP source address in the PIM Hello IP

GDR Candidate Address(es) (32/128 bits):

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

List of GDR Candidate(s)

All addresses
recommended that the addresses are sorted in descending order.

 be in the same address family as the PIM Hello IP header. It is

MUST

If the "Interface ID" option, as speciﬁed in
Hello message and the "Router Identiﬁer" portion is non-zero:

[RFC6395]

, is present in a GDR Candidate's PIM

•

For IPv4, the "GDR Candidate Address" will be set directly to the "Router Identiﬁer".

•

For IPv6, the "GDR Candidate Address" will be 96 bits of zeroes, followed by the 32 bit
Router Identiﬁer.

If the "Interface ID" option is not present in a GDR Candidate's PIM Hello message or if the
"Interface ID" option is present but the "Router Identiﬁer" ﬁeld is zero, the "GDR Candidate
Address" will be the IPv4 or IPv6 source address of the PIM Hello message.

This DRLB-List Hello Option
ignored if received from a non-DR. The option
not the correct number of bits or GDR Candidate addresses are in the wrong address
family.

 only be advertised by the elected PIM DR. It

 also be ignored if the hash masks are

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be

5.4.  PIM DR Operation

[RFC7761]

. The DR advertises the new

The DR election process is still the same as deﬁned in
DRLB-List Hello Option, which contains mask values from user conﬁguration (or default values),
followed by a list of GDR Candidate addresses. Note that if a router included the "Interface ID"
option in the hello message and the Router ID is non-zero, the Router ID will be used to form the
GDR Candidate address of the router, as discussed in the previous section. It is recommended
that the list be sorted from the highest value to the lowest value. The reason for sorting the list is
to make the behavior deterministic, regardless of the order in which the DR learns of new
candidates. Note that, as for non-DR routers, the DR also advertises the DRLB-Cap Hello Option to
indicate its ability to support the new functionality and the type of GDR election hash algorithm
it uses.

If a PIM DR receives a neighbor DRLB-Cap Hello Option that contains the same hash algorithm as
the DR and the neighbor has the same DR priority as the DR, PIM DR
neighbor as a GDR Candidate and insert the GDR Candidate's Address into the list of the DRLB-
List Option. However, the DR may have policies limiting which or the number of GDR Candidates
to include. Likewise, the DR
permissible not to do so, for instance, if there is some policy restricting the candidate set.

 include itself in the list of GDR Candidates, but it is

 consider the

SHOULD

SHOULD

If a PIM neighbor included in the list expires, stops announcing the DRLB-Cap Hello Option,
changes DR priority, changes hash algorithm, or otherwise becomes ineligible as a candidate, the
DR
 immediately send a triggered hello with a new list in the DRLB-List option, excluding
SHOULD
the neighbor.

If a new router becomes eligible as a candidate, there is no urgency in sending out an updated
list. An updated list

 be included in the next hello.

SHOULD

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

5.5.  PIM GDR Candidate Operation

When an IGMP/MLD report is received, a hash algorithm is used by the GDR Candidates to
determine which router is going to be responsible for building forwarding trees on behalf of the
host.

MUST

 include the DRLB-Cap Hello Option in all PIM Hello messages sent on the

The router
interface. Note that the presence of the DRLB-Cap Option in the PIM Hello does not guarantee
that the router will be considered as a GDR Candidate. Once the DR election is done, the DRLB-
List Hello Option is received from the current PIM DR containing a list of the selected GDR
Candidates.

A router only acts as a GDR Candidate if it is included in the GDR Candidate list of the DRLB-List
Hello Option. See next section for details.

5.6.  DRLB-List Hello Option Processing

This section discusses processing of the DRLB-List Hello Option, including the case where it was
received in the previous hello but not in the current hello. All routers
Hello Option if it is received from a PIM router that is not the DR. The option
processed by routers that are announcing the DRLB-Cap Option and only if the hash algorithm
announced by the DR is the same as the local announcement. All GDR Candidates
 use the
hash masks advertised in the Option, even if they diﬀer from those the candidate was conﬁgured
with. The DR

 ignore the DRLB-List
 only be

 also process its own DRLB-List Hello Option.

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

A router stores the latest option contents that were announced, if any, and deletes the previous
 also compare the new contents with any previous contents and, if
contents. The router
there are any changes, continue processing as below. Note that if the option does not pass the
above checks, the below processing

 be done as if the option was not announced.

MUST

MUST

If the contents of the DRLB-List Option, the masks, or the candidate list diﬀer from the previously
saved copy, it is received for the ﬁrst time, or it is no longer being received or accepted, the
option

 be processed as below.

MUST

1.

If the local router is included in the "GDR Candidate Address(es)" ﬁeld, it will look for its own
address, or if it announces a non-zero Router ID, its own Router ID. For each of the groups or
source and group pairs, if the group is in SSM mode with local receiver interest, the router
MUST

 run the hash algorithm to determine which of them is for the GDR.

◦

◦

◦

If there is no change in the GDR status, then no further action is required.

If the router becomes the new GDR, then a multicast forwarding tree
[RFC7761]

.

MUST

 be built

If the router is no longer the GDR, then it uses an Assert as explained in Section 5.7.

2.

If one of the following occurs:

◦

the local router is not included in the "GDR Candidate Address(es)" ﬁeld,

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

◦

◦

the DRLB-List Hello Option is no longer included in the DR's Hello, or

the DR's Neighbor Liveness Timer expires [RFC7761],

then for each group (or each source and group pair if the group is in SSM mode) with local
receiver interest, for which the router is the GDR, the router uses an Assert as explained in
Section 5.7.

5.7.  PIM Assert Modiﬁcation

GDR changes may occur due to conﬁguration change, GDR Candidates going down, and also new
routers coming up and becoming GDR Candidates. This may occur while ﬂows are being
forwarded. If the GDR for an active ﬂow changes, there is likely to be some disruption, such as
packet loss or duplicates. By using asserts, packet loss is minimized while allowing a small
amount of duplicates.

When a router stops acting as the GDR for a group, or source and group pair if SSM, it
MUST
the Assert metric preference to maximum (0x7ﬀﬀﬀf) and the Assert metric to one less than
maximum (0xﬀﬀﬀfe). That is, whenever it sends or receives an Assert for the group, it must use
these values as the metric preference and metric rather than the values provided by the unicast
routing protocol.

 set

The rest of this section is just for illustration purposes and not part of the protocol deﬁnition.

To illustrate the behavior when there is a GDR change, consider the following scenario where
there are two ﬂows: G1 and G2. R1 is the GDR for G1, and R2 is the GDR for G2. When R3 comes
up, it is possible that R3 becomes GDR for both G1 and G2; hence, R3 starts to build the
forwarding tree for G1 and G2. If R1 and R2 stop forwarding before R3 completes the process,
packet loss might occur. On the other hand, if R1 and R2 continue forwarding while R3 is
building the forwarding trees, duplicates might occur.

When the role of GDR changes as above, instead of immediately stopping forwarding, R1 and R2
continue forwarding to G1 and G2 respectively, while, at the same time, R3 build forwarding
trees for G1 and G2. This will lead to PIM Asserts.

For G1, using the functionality described in this document, R1 and R3 determine the new GDR,
which is R3. With the modiﬁed Assert behavior, R1 sets its Assert metric to the near maximum
value, as discussed above. That will make R3, which has normal metric in its Assert, the Assert
winner.

5.8.  Backward Compatibility

In the case of a hybrid Ethernet shared LAN (where some PIM routers support the functionality
deﬁned in this document and some do not):

•

If the DR does not support the new functionality, then there will be no load balancing.

•

If non-DR routers do not support the new functionality, they will not be considered as GDR
Candidate and will not take part in load balancing. Load balancing may still happen on the
link.

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

6.  Operational Considerations

An administrator needs to consider what the total bandwidth requirements are and ﬁnd a set of
routers that together have enough available capacity while making sure that each of the routers
can handle its part, assuming that the traﬃc is distributed roughly equally among the routers.
Ideally, one should also have enough bandwidth to handle the case where at least one router
fails. All routers should have reachability to the sources and RPs, if applicable, that are not via
the LAN.

Care must be taken when choosing what hash masks to conﬁgure. One would typically conﬁgure
the same masks on all the routers so that they are the same, regardless of which router is elected
as DR. The default masks are likely suitable for most deployment. The RP Hash Mask must be
conﬁgured (the default is no bits set) if one wishes to hash based on the RP address rather than
the group address for ASM. The default masks will use the entire group addresses, and source
addresses if SSM, as part of the hash. An administrator may set other masks that mask out part of
the addresses to ensure that certain ﬂows always get hashed to the same router. How this is
achieved depends on how the group addresses are allocated.

Only the routers announcing the same hash algorithm as the DR would be considered as GDR
Candidates. Network administrators need to make sure that the desired set of routers announce
the same algorithm. Migration between diﬀerent algorithms is not considered in this document.

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has made these assignments in the "PIM-Hello Options" registry: value 34 for the PIM DR
Load-Balancing Capability (DRLB-Cap) Hello Option (with Length of 4), and value 35 for the PIM
DR Load-Balancing List (DRLB-List) Hello Option (with variable Length).

Per this document, IANA has created a registry called "PIM Designated Router Load-Balancing
Hash Algorithms" in the "Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM)" branch of the registry tree. The
registry lists hash algorithms for use by PIM Designated Router Load Balancing.

7.1.  Initial Registry

The initial content of the registry is as follows.

Type

Name

Reference

0

Modulo

RFC 8775

1-255

Unassigned

Table 1

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

7.2.  Assignment of New Hash Algorithms

Assignment of new hash algorithms is done according to the "IETF Review" procedure; see
[RFC8126]
.

8.  Security Considerations

Security of the new DR Load-Balancing PIM Hello Options is only guaranteed by the security of
PIM Hello messages, so the security considerations for PIM Hello messages, as described in PIM-
SM

, apply here.

[RFC7761]

If the DR is subverted, it could omit or add certain GDRs or announce an unsupported algorithm.
If another router is subverted, it could be made DR and cause similar issues. While these issues
are speciﬁc to this speciﬁcation, they are not that diﬀerent from existing attacks, such as
subverting a DR and lowering the DR priority, causing a diﬀerent router to become the DR.

If, for any reason, the DR includes a GDR in the announced list that announces a diﬀerent
algorithm from what the DR announces, the GDR is required to ignore the announcement, and
there will be no router acting as the DR for the ﬂows that hash to that GDR.

If a GDR is subverted, it could potentially be made to stop forwarding all the traﬃc it is expected
to forward. This is also similar today to if a DR is subverted.

An administrator may be able to achieve the desired load balancing of known ﬂows, but an
attacker may send a single high rate ﬂow that is served by a single GDR or send multiple ﬂows
that are expected to be hashed to the same GDR.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6395]

[RFC7761]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Gulrajani, S. and S. Venaas "An Interface Identiﬁer (ID) Hello Option for PIM"
RFC 6395 DOI 10.17487/RFC6395
rfc6395>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2011,

,
.

,

,

,

Fenner, B., Handley, M., Holbrook, H., Kouvelas, I., Parekh, R., Zhang, Z., and L.
Zheng "Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
,
Speciﬁcation (Revised)" STD 83 RFC 7761 DOI 10.17487/RFC7761
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7761>

, March 2016,

,
.

,

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC3376]

[RFC3810]

[RFC4541]

[RFC4607]

Cain, B., Deering, S., Kouvelas, I., Fenner, B., and A. Thyagarajan "Internet Group
,
Management Protocol, Version 3" RFC 3376 DOI 10.17487/RFC3376
2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3376>

, October

.

,

,

Vida, R., Ed. and L. Costa, Ed. "Multicast Listener Discovery Version 2 (MLDv2)
for IPv6" RFC 3810 DOI 10.17487/RFC3810
editor.org/info/rfc3810>

<https://www.rfc-

, June 2004,

,

,

.

,

Christensen, M., Kimball, K., and F. Solensky "Considerations for Internet Group
Management Protocol (IGMP) and Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) Snooping
Switches" RFC 4541 DOI 10.17487/RFC4541
editor.org/info/rfc4541>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2006,

,

,

.

,

Holbrook, H. and B. Cain "Source-Speciﬁc Multicast for IP" RFC 4607 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4607>
10.17487/RFC4607

,
, August 2006,

,

,

Acknowledgements

,

Taki Millonis
The authors would like to thank
 for helping with the original idea;
 and
Alia Atlas Bill Atwood Joe Clarke Alissa Cooper Jake Holland Bharat Joshi Anish Kachinthaya
,
,
,
Anvitha Kachinthaya Benjamin Kaduk Mirja Kühlewind Barry Leiba Ben Niven-Jenkins Alvaro
Retana Adam Roach Michael Scharf Éric Vyncke
and

Carl Wallace
 for helpful conversation on the document.

 for reviews and comments;

Steve Simlo
,

,
,
 and

Rishabh Parekh

Toerless Eckert

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Yiqun Cai
Alibaba Group
520 Almanor Avenue
Sunnyvale CA 94085
,
United States of America
Email:

 yiqun.cai@alibaba-inc.com

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8775

PIM Designated Router Load Balancing

April 2020

Heidi Ou
Alibaba Group
520 Almanor Avenue
Sunnyvale CA 94085
,
United States of America
Email:

 heidi.ou@alibaba-inc.com

Sri Vallepalli
Email:

 vallepal@yahoo.com

Mankamana Mishra
Cisco Systems, Inc.
821 Alder Drive,
Milpitas CA 95035
,
United States of America
Email:

 mankamis@cisco.com

Stig Venaas
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Tasman Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

 stig@cisco.com

Andy Green
British Telecom
Adastral Park
Ipswich
IP5 2RE
United Kingdom
Email:

 andy.da.green@bt.com

Cai, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

