Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8892
2863
Standards Track
August 2020
2070-1721
D. Thaler
Microsoft

D. Romascanu
Independent

RFC 8892
Guidelines and Registration Procedures for Interface
Types and Tunnel Types

Abstract

This document provides guidelines and procedures for those who are deﬁning, registering, or
evaluating deﬁnitions of new interface types ("ifType" values) and tunnel types. The original
deﬁnition of the IANA interface type registry predated the use of IANA Considerations sections
and YANG modules, so some confusion arose over time. Tunnel types were added later, with the
same requirements and allocation policy as interface types. This document updates RFC 2863
and provides updated guidance for these registries.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8892

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8892

ifType Guidelines

August 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Problems

4.  Interface Sub-layers and Sub-types

4.1.  Alternate Values

5.  Available Formats

6.  Registration

6.1.  Procedures

6.2.  Media-Speciﬁc OID-Subtree Assignments

6.3.  Registration Template

6.3.1.  ifType

6.3.2.  tunnelType

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  MIB and YANG Modules

7.2.  Transmission Number Assignments

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The IANA IfType-MIB, which contains the list of interface type (ifType) values, was originally
deﬁned in
module. The IF-MIB module was subsequently updated and is currently speciﬁed in

 as a separate MIB module together with the Interfaces Group MIB (IF-MIB)

,
[RFC2863]

[RFC1573]

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8892

ifType Guidelines

August 2020

but the latest IF-MIB RFC no longer contains the IANA IfType-MIB. Instead, the IANA IfType-MIB
is maintained by IANA as a separate module. Similarly,
Interface Type YANG Module, and the current version is maintained by IANA.

 created an initial IANA

[RFC7224]

The current IANA IfType registry is at
both

[yang-if-type]

 and the IANAifType textual convention at

.
[IANAifType-MIB]

[ifType-registry]

, with the same values also appearing in

Although the ifType registry was originally deﬁned in a MIB module, the assignment and use of
interface type values are not tied to MIB modules or any other management mechanism. An
interface type value can be used as the value of a data model object (MIB object, YANG object,
etc.), as part of a unique identiﬁer of a data model for a given interface type (e.g., in an OID), or
simply as a value exposed by local APIs or UIs on a device.

The TUNNEL-MIB was deﬁned in
tunnelType registry (
[IANAifType-MIB]
identical to the policy for assigning ifType values.

[tunnelType-registry]

[RFC2667]

 (now obsoleted by

), which created a
 and the IANAtunnelType textual convention at

[RFC4087]

), and it deﬁned the assignment policy for tunnelType values to always be

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Problems

This document addresses the following issues:

1.

As noted in Section 1, the original guidance was written with wording speciﬁc to MIB
modules; accordingly, some confusion has resulted when using YANG modules. This
document clariﬁes that ifTypes and tunnelTypes are independent from the type of, or even
existence of, a data model.

2.

The use of and requirements around sub-layers and sub-types were not well understood, but
good examples of both now exist. This is discussed in Section 4.

3.

Since the "Interface Types (ifType)" and "Tunnel Types (tunnelType)" registries were
originally deﬁned, and are still retrievable, in the format of MIB modules (in addition to
other formats), confusion arose when adding YANG modules as another format as to
whether each is a separate registry. This is discussed in Section 5.

4.

The registries are retrievable in the format of MIB and YANG modules, but there was
previously no process guidance written to check that those formats were syntactically
correct as updates were made, which led to the registry having syntax errors that broke
tools. Section 6.1 adds a validation step to the documented assignment procedure.

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8892

ifType Guidelines

August 2020

5.

Various documents and registries previously said to submit requests via email, but a web
form exists for submitting requests, which caused some confusion around which was to be
used. This is addressed in Section 6.1.

6.

[transmission-registry]

Transmission values
 have generally been allocated as part of ifType
allocation, but no guidance existed as to whether a requester must ask for it or not, and the
request form had no such required ﬁeld. As a result, IANA has asked the designated expert to
decide for each allocation, but no relevant guidance for the designated expert has been
documented. This is remedied in Section 6.2.

4.  Interface Sub-layers and Sub-types

When multiple sub-layers exist below the network layer, each sub-layer can be represented by its
own row in the ifTable with its own ifType, with the ifStackTable being used to identify the
upward and downward multiplexing relationships between rows.
provides more discussion, and 3.1.2 provides guidance for deﬁning interface sub-layers. More
recent experience shows that those guidelines were phrased in a way that is now too restrictive,
since at the time

 was written, MIB modules were the dominant data model.

Section 3.1.1 of [RFC2863]

[RFC2863]

This document clariﬁes that the same guidance also applies to YANG modules.

Some ifTypes may deﬁne sub-types. For example, the tunnel(131) ifType deﬁnes sub-types known
as "tunnelTypes", where each tunnelType can have its own MIB and/or YANG module with
protocol-speciﬁc information, but there is enough in common that some information is exposed
in a generic IP Tunnel MIB corresponding to the tunnel(131) ifType.

For requests that involve multiple sub-layers below the network layer, requests
reference) a discussion of the multiplexing relationships between sub-layers, ideally with a
diagram. Various well-written examples exist of such deﬁnitions, including
Section 3.4.1 of
[RFC3637] Section 3.1.1 of [RFC4087]

.
Section 3.1.1 of [RFC5066]

, and

MUST

,

 include (or

Deﬁners of sub-layers and sub-types should consider which model is more appropriate for their
needs. A sub-layer is generally used whenever either a dynamic relationship exists (i.e., when the
set of instances above or below a given instance can change over time) or a multiplexing
relationship exists with another sub-layer. A sub-type can be used when neither of these is true
but where one interface type is conceptually a subclass of another interface type, as far as a
management data model is concerned.

In general, the intent of an interface type or sub-type is that its deﬁnition should be suﬃcient to
identify an interoperable protocol. In some cases, however, a protocol might be deﬁned in a way
that is not suﬃcient to provide interoperability with other compliant implementations of that
protocol. In such a case, an ifType deﬁnition should discuss whether speciﬁc instantiations (or
proﬁles) of behavior should use a sub-layer model (e.g., each vendor might layer the protocol
over its own sub-layer that provides the missing details) or a sub-type model (i.e., each vendor
might subclass the protocol without any layering relationship). If a sub-type model is more
appropriate, then the data model for the protocol might include a sub-type identiﬁer so that
management software can discover objects speciﬁc to the sub-type. In either case, such

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8892

ifType Guidelines

August 2020

discussion is important to guide deﬁners of a data model for the more speciﬁc information (i.e., a
lower sub-layer or a sub-type), as well as the designated expert, who must review requests for
any such ifTypes or sub-types.

4.1.  Alternate Values

Another design decision is whether to reuse an existing ifType or tunnelType value, possibly
using a sub-type or sub-layer model for reﬁnements, or to use a diﬀerent value for a new
mechanism.

If there is already an entry that could easily satisfy the modeling and functional requirements for
the requested entry, it should be reused so that applications and tools that use the existing value
can be used without changes. If, however, the modeling and functional requirements are
signiﬁcantly diﬀerent enough such that having existing applications and tools use the existing
value would be seen as a problem, a new value should be used.

For example, originally diﬀerent ifType values were used for diﬀerent ﬂavors of Ethernet
(ethernetCsmacd(6), iso88023Csmacd(7), fastEther(62), etc.), typically because they were
registered by diﬀerent vendors. Using diﬀerent values was, however, seen as problematic
because all were functionally similar, so

 then deprecated all but ethernetCsmacd(6).

[RFC3635]

As another example, a udp(8) tunnelType value was deﬁned in
 with the description
"The value UDP indicates that the payload packet is encapsulated within a normal UDP packet
(e.g., RFC 1234)." The Teredo tunnel protocol
packets over UDP, but the protocol model is quite diﬀerent between
example,
not. As such, it would be more confusing to applications and tools to represent them using the
same tunnel type, and so

 and Teredo. For
 supports encapsulation of multicast/broadcast traﬃc, whereas Teredo does

 was later deﬁned and encapsulates
[RFC1234]

 deﬁned a new value for Teredo.

[RFC2667]

[RFC4380]

[RFC1234]

[RFC4087]

In summary, deﬁners of new interface or tunnel mechanisms should use a new ifType or
tunnelType value rather than reuse an existing value when key aspects such as the header
format or the link model (point-to-point, non-broadcast multi-access, broadcast-capable multi-
access, unidirectional broadcast, etc.) are signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from existing values, but they
should reuse the same value when the diﬀerences can be expressed in terms of diﬀering values
of existing objects other than ifType/tunnelType in the standard YANG or MIB module.

5.  Available Formats

Many registries are available in multiple formats. For example, XML, HTML, CSV, and plain text
are common formats in which many registries are available. This document clariﬁes that the
 MIB and YANG modules are merely
[yang-tunnel-type]
[IANAifType-MIB] [yang-if-type]
additional formats in which the "Interface Types (ifType)" and "Tunnel Types (tunnelType)"
registries are available. The MIB and YANG modules are not separate registries, and the same
values are always present in all formats of the same registry.

, and

,

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8892

ifType Guidelines

August 2020

 listed the YANG and MIB module formats separately, as if they were separate

The confusion stemmed in part from the fact that the IANA "Protocol Registries"
registries]
registries. However, the entries for the yang-if-type and iana-tunnel-type YANG modules said
"See ifType deﬁnitions registry" and "See tunnelType registry
(mib-2.interface.ifTable.ifEntry.ifType.tunnelType)" respectively, although the entry for the
IANAifType-MIB had no such note. Section 7.1 addresses this.

[protocol-

6.  Registration

[RFC8126]

The IANA policy (using terms deﬁned in
) for registration is Expert Review for both
interface types and tunnel types. The role of the designated expert in the procedure is to raise
possible concerns about wider implications of proposals for use and deployment of interface
types. While it is recommended that the responsible Area Director and the IESG take into
consideration the designated expert opinions, nothing in the procedure empowers the
designated expert to override properly arrived-at IETF or working group consensus.

6.1.  Procedures

Someone wishing to register a new ifType or tunnelType value

:
MUST

1.

Check the IANA registry to see whether there is already an entry that could easily satisfy the
modeling and functional requirements for the requested entry. If there is already such an
entry, use it or update the existing speciﬁcation. Text in an Internet-Draft or part of some
permanently available, stable speciﬁcation may be written to clarify the usage of an existing
entry or entries for the desired purpose.

2.

Check the IANA registry to see whether there is already some other entry with the desired
name. If there is already an unrelated entry under the desired name, choose a diﬀerent
name.

3.

Prepare a registration request using the template speciﬁed in Section 6.3. The registration
request can be contained in an Internet-Draft, submitted alone, or submitted as part of some
permanently available, stable speciﬁcation. The registration request can also be submitted in
some other form (as part of another document or as a stand-alone document), but the
registration request will be treated as an "IETF Contribution" under the guidelines of
[RFC5378]

.

4.

Submit the registration request (or pointer to a document containing it) to IANA at
iana@iana.org or (if requesting an ifType) via the web form at
iftype>

.

<https://www.iana.org/form/

Upon receipt of a registration request, the following steps

MUST

 be followed:

1.

IANA checks the submission for completeness; if required information is missing or any
citations are not correct, IANA will reject the registration request. A registrant can resubmit
a corrected request if desired.

2.

IANA requests Expert Review of the registration request against the corresponding
guidelines from this document.

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8892

ifType Guidelines

August 2020

3.

The designated expert will evaluate the request against the criteria.

4.

5.

[yang-if-type]

Once the designated expert approves a registration, IANA updates
[IANAifType-MIB]
, and
,
[tunnelType-registry] [IANAifType-MIB]
a tunnel type. When adding values, IANA should verify that the updated MIB module and
YANG module formats are syntactically correct before publishing the update. There are
various existing tools or websites that can be used to do this veriﬁcation.

 to show the registration for an interface type, or

[yang-tunnel-type]

[ifType-registry]

, and

 to show the registration for

,

If instead the designated expert does not approve registration (e.g., for any of the reasons in
[RFC8126], Section 5
can override the designated expert and approve it per the process in
[RFC8126]

), a registrant can resubmit a corrected request if desired, or the IESG

Section 3.3 of

.

6.2.  Media-Speciﬁc OID-Subtree Assignments

[IANAifType-MIB]

 notes:

The relationship between the assignment of ifType values and of OIDs to particular
media-speciﬁc MIBs is solely the purview of IANA and is subject to change without
notice. Quite often, a media-speciﬁc MIB's OID-subtree assignment within MIB-II's
'transmission' subtree will be the same as its ifType value. However, in some
circumstances this will not be the case, and implementors must not pre-assume any
speciﬁc relationship between ifType values and transmission subtree OIDs.

The advice above remains unchanged, but this document changes the allocation procedure to
streamline the process, so that an ifType value and a transmission number value with the same
value will be assigned at the same time.

Rationale:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

This saves future eﬀort if a transmission number is later deemed necessary, since no IANA
request is needed that would then require another Expert Review.

The transmission numbering space is not scarce, so there seems to be little need to reserve
the number for a diﬀerent purpose than what the ifType is for.

The designated expert need not review whether a transmission number value should be
registered when processing each ifType request, thus reducing the possibility of delaying
assignment of ifType values.

There is no case on record where allocating the same value could have caused any
problems.

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8892

ifType Guidelines

August 2020

6.3.  Registration Template

6.3.1.  ifType

The following template describes the ﬁelds that
suitable for adding to the "Interface Types (ifType)" registry:

MUST

 be supplied in a registration request

Label for IANA ifType requested:

As explained in

Section 7.1.1 of [RFC2578]

, a label for a

named-number enumeration must consist of one or more letters or digits, up to a
maximum of 64 characters, and the initial character must be a lowercase letter. (However,
labels longer than 32 characters are not recommended.) Note that hyphens are not
allowed.

Name of IANA ifType requested:
a comment in the registry.

A short description (e.g., a protocol name) suitable to appear in

Description of the proposed use of the IANA ifType:

Requesters

MUST

 include answers, either

directly or via a link to a document with the answers, to the following questions in the
explanation of the proposed use of the IANA IfType:

•

How would IP run over your ifType?

•

Would there be another interface sub-layer between your ifType and IP?

•

 start with a
Would your ifType be vendor speciﬁc / proprietary? (If so, the label
string that shows that. For example, if your company's name or acronym is xxx, then
the ifType label would be something like xxxSomeIfTypeLabel.)

MUST

•

Would your ifType require or allow vendor-speciﬁc extensions? If so, would the
vendor use their own ifType in a sub-layer below the requested ifType, a sub-type of
the ifType, or some other mechanism?

Reference, Internet-Draft, or Speciﬁcation:

A link to a document is required.

Additional information or comments:

Optional; any additional comments for IANA or the

designated expert.

6.3.2.  tunnelType

Prior to this document, no form existed for tunnelType (and new tunnelType requests did not
need to use the ifType form that did exist). This document therefore speciﬁes a tunnelType form.

The following template describes the ﬁelds that
suitable for adding to the "Tunnel Types (tunnelType)" registry:

MUST

 be supplied in a registration request

Label for IANA tunnelType requested:

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8892

ifType Guidelines

August 2020

Section 7.1.1 of [RFC2578]

As explained in
consist of one or more letters or digits, up to a maximum of 64 characters, and the initial
character must be a lowercase letter. (However, labels longer than 32 characters are not
recommended.) Note that hyphens are not allowed.

, a label for a named-number enumeration must

Name of IANA tunnelType requested:

A short description (e.g., a protocol name) suitable to

appear in a comment in the registry.

Description of the proposed use of the IANA tunnelType:

Requesters

MUST

 include answers,

either directly or via a link to a document with the answers, to the following questions in
the explanation of the proposed use of the IANA tunnelType:

•

How would IP run over your tunnelType?

•

Would there be another interface sub-layer between your tunnelType and IP?

•

Would your tunnelType be vendor-speciﬁc or proprietary? (If so, the label
with a string that shows that. For example, if your company's name or acronym is xxx,
then the tunnelType label would be something like xxxSomeTunnelTypeLabel.)

 start

MUST

•

Would your tunnelType require or allow vendor-speciﬁc extensions? If so, would the
vendor use their own tunnelType in a sub-layer below the requested tunnelType, or
some sort of sub-type of the tunnelType, or some other mechanism?

Reference, Internet-Draft, or Speciﬁcation:

A link to a document is required.

Additional information or comments:

Optionally any additional comments for IANA or the

designated expert.

7.  IANA Considerations

This entire document is about IANA considerations, but this section discusses actions taken by
and to be taken by IANA. There are three registries aﬀected:

1.

2.

Interface Types (ifType)
and the template is updated in Section 6.3.1.

[ifType-registry]

: The registration process is updated in Section 6.1,

Tunnel Types (tunnelType)
Section 6.1, and the template is updated in Section 6.3.2.

[tunnelType-registry]

: The registration process is updated in

3.

Transmission Number Values
Section 6.2.

[transmission-registry]

: The assignment process is updated in

At the time of publication of this document, IANA is unable to perform some of the actions
requested below due to limitations of their current platform and toolset. In such cases, IANA is
requested to perform these actions as and when the migration to a new platform that would
enable these actions is complete.

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8892

ifType Guidelines

August 2020

7.1.  MIB and YANG Modules

IANA is to complete the following to clarify the relationship between MIB modules, YANG
modules, and the relevant registries.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

The following note has been added to the IANAifType-MIB at
one of the available formats of the Interface Types (ifType) and Tunnel Types (tunnelType)
registries."

[protocol-registries]

: "This is

The note for the iana-if-type YANG module at
"This is one of the available formats of the Interface Types (ifType) registry."

[protocol-registries]

 has been updated to read:

The note for the iana-tunnel-type YANG module at
read: "This is one of the available formats of the Tunnel Types (tunnelType) registry."

[protocol-registries]

 has been updated to

The new "Interface Parameters" category at
"Interface Types (ifType)"
registry]

, and "Transmission Number Values"

[ifType-registry]

[protocol-registries]

 includes entries for

, "Tunnel Types (tunnelType)"
[transmission-registry]

.

[tunnelType-

Update the "Interface Types (ifType)" registry
 as Available Formats.
and YANG

[yang-if-type]

[ifType-registry]

 to list MIB

[IANAifType-MIB]

Update the "Tunnel Types (tunnelType)" registry
 and YANG
[IANAifType-MIB]

[yang-tunnel-type]

[tunnelType-registry]
 as Available Formats.

 to list MIB

Replace the
that claims to have multiple Available Formats.

[yang-if-type]

 page with the YANG module content rather than having a page

Replace the
page that claims to have multiple Available Formats.

[yang-tunnel-type]

 page with the YANG module content rather than having a

9.

In addition,

[IANAifType-MIB]

 is to be updated as follows:

OLD:

Requests for new values should be made to IANA via email (iana@iana.org).

NEW:

Interface types must not be directly added to the IANAifType-MIB MIB module. They
.
must instead be added to the "Interface Types (ifType)" registry at

[ifType-registry]

(Note that

[yang-if-type]

 was previously updated with this language.)

10.

IANA has added this document as a reference in the "Interface Types (ifType)", "Tunnel
Types (tunnelType)", and "Transmission Number Values" registries, as well as the iana-if-type
YANG Module, iana-tunnel-type YANG Module, and IANAifType-MIB.

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8892

ifType Guidelines

August 2020

7.2.  Transmission Number Assignments

Per the discussion in Section 6.2,

[ifType-registry]

 has been updated as follows:

OLD:

For every ifType registration, the corresponding transmission number value should be
registered or marked "Reserved".

NEW:

For future ifType assignments, an OID-subtree assignment MIB-II's 'transmission'
subtree will be made with the same value.

Similarly, the following change has been made to

[transmission-registry]
:

OLD:

For every transmission number registration, the corresponding ifType value should be
registered or marked "Reserved".

NEW:

For future transmission number assignments, an 'ifType' will be made with the same
value.

8.  Security Considerations

Since this document does not introduce any technology or protocol, there are no security issues
to be considered for this document itself.

For security considerations related to MIB and YANG modules that expose these values, see
Section 9 of [RFC2863] Section 6 of [RFC4087]
,

Section 3 of [RFC8675]
.

, and

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8892

ifType Guidelines

August 2020

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

[RFC2578]

[RFC2863]

[RFC5378]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

McCloghrie, K., Ed., Perkins, D., Ed., and J. Schoenwaelder, Ed. "Structure of
Management Information Version 2 (SMIv2)" STD 58 RFC 2578 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2578

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2578>

, April 1999,

,
.

,

,

,

McCloghrie, K. and F. Kastenholz "The Interfaces Group MIB" RFC 2863 DOI
10.17487/RFC2863

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2863>

, June 2000,

,
.

,

,

Bradner, S., Ed. and J. Contreras, Ed. "Rights Contributors Provide to the IETF
,
Trust" BCP 78 RFC 5378 DOI 10.17487/RFC5378
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5378>

, November 2008,

<https://

,

,

.

,

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

,

.

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

.

,

,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[IANAifType-MIB]

IANA "IANAifType-MIB Deﬁnitions" <http://www.iana.org/assignments/
,

,

ianaiftype-mib>

.

[ifType-registry]

IANA "Interface Types (ifType)" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/smi-

,

,
numbers>

.

[protocol-registries]

IANA "Protocol Registries" <https://www.iana.org/protocols>

,

,

.

[RFC1234]

[RFC1573]

[RFC2667]

[RFC3635]

[RFC3637]

Provan, D. "Tunneling IPX traﬃc through IP networks" RFC 1234 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1234>
RFC1234

, June 1991,

.

,

,

,

,
McCloghrie, K. and F. Kastenholz "Evolution of the Interfaces Group of MIB-II"
, January 1994,
RFC 1573 DOI 10.17487/RFC1573
rfc1573>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

Thaler, D. "IP Tunnel MIB" RFC 2667 DOI 10.17487/RFC2667
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2667>

.

,

,

,

, August 1999,

,

,
Flick, J. "Deﬁnitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like Interface Types"
RFC 3635 DOI 10.17487/RFC3635
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc3635>

, September 2003,

,

.

,

Heard, C.M., Ed. "Deﬁnitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet WAN
, September 2003,
Interface Sublayer" RFC 3637 DOI 10.17487/RFC3637
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3637>

.

,

,

<https://

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8892

ifType Guidelines

August 2020

[RFC4087]

[RFC4380]

[RFC5066]

[RFC7224]

[RFC8675]

Thaler, D. "IP Tunnel MIB" RFC 4087 DOI 10.17487/RFC4087
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4087>

,

,

,

.

, June 2005,

<https://

,

Huitema, C. "Teredo: Tunneling IPv6 over UDP through Network Address
Translations (NATs)" RFC 4380 DOI 10.17487/RFC4380
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4380>

, February 2006,

,

,

.

<https://

,

Beili, E. "Ethernet in the First Mile Copper (EFMCu) Interfaces MIB" RFC 5066
DOI 10.17487/RFC5066
rfc5066>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2007,

,

.

,

Bjorklund, M. "IANA Interface Type YANG Module" RFC 7224 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7224

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7224>

,
, May 2014,

,
.

,

Boucadair, M., Farrer, I., and R. Asati "A YANG Data Model for Tunnel Interface
Types" RFC 8675 DOI 10.17487/RFC8675
editor.org/info/rfc8675>

, November 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

.

[transmission-registry]

IANA "Transmission Number Values" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

assignments/smi-numbers>

.

[tunnelType-registry]

IANA "Tunnel Types (tunnelType)" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/
,

,
smi-numbers>
.

[yang-if-type]

,
IANA "iana-if-type YANG Module" <http://www.iana.org/assignments/iana-if-
.
type>

,

[yang-tunnel-type]

IANA "iana-tunnel-type YANG Module" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

assignments/iana-tunnel-type>

.

Authors' Addresses

Dave Thaler
Microsoft
Email:

 dthaler@microsoft.com

Dan Romascanu
Independent
Email:

 dromasca@gmail.com

Thaler & Romascanu

Standards Track

Page 13

