Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8781
Standards Track
April 2020
2070-1721
L. Colitti
Google

J. Linkova
Google

RFC 8781
Discovering PREF64 in Router Advertisements

Abstract

This document speciﬁes a Neighbor Discovery option to be used in Router Advertisements (RAs)
to communicate preﬁxes of Network Address and Protocol Translation from IPv6 clients to IPv4
servers (NAT64) to hosts.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8781

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Colitti & Linkova

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8781

Discovering PREF64 in Router Advertisements

April 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Terminology

2.  Use Cases for Communicating the NAT64 Preﬁx to Hosts

3.  Why Include the NAT64 Preﬁx in Router Advertisements?

4.  Option Format

4.1.  Scaled Lifetime Processing

5.  Usage Guidelines

5.1.  Handling Multiple NAT64 Preﬁxes

5.2.  PREF64 Consistency

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 with DNS Extensions for Network Address Translation from IPv6 clients to IPv4
[RFC6147]

[RFC6146]
NAT64
servers (DNS64)
networks. In various scenarios, the host must be aware of the NAT64 preﬁx in use by the
network. This document speciﬁes a Neighbor Discovery
Advertisements (RAs) to communicate NAT64 preﬁxes to hosts.

 is a widely deployed mechanism to provide IPv4 access on IPv6-only

 option to be used in Router

[RFC4861]

Colitti & Linkova

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8781

Discovering PREF64 in Router Advertisements

April 2020

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Terminology

PREF64 (or NAT64 preﬁx):

An IPv6 preﬁx used for IPv6 address synthesis

[RFC6146]

;

NAT64:

Network Address and Protocol Translation from IPv6 clients to IPv4 servers

[RFC6146]

;

Router Advertisement (RA):

A message used by IPv6 routers to advertise their presence

together with various link and Internet parameters

[RFC4861]

;

DNS64: a mechanism for synthesizing AAAA records from A records

;
[RFC6147]

2.  Use Cases for Communicating the NAT64 Preﬁx to Hosts

On networks employing NAT64, it is useful for hosts to know the NAT64 preﬁx for several
reasons, including the following:

•

Enabling DNS64 functions on end hosts. In particular:

◦

◦

◦

Local DNSSEC validation (DNS64 in stub-resolver mode). As discussed in
2
, the stub resolver in the host "will try to obtain (real) AAAA RRs, and in case they are not
available, the DNS64 function will synthesize AAAA RRs for internal usage." Therefore, to
perform the DNS64 function, the stub resolver needs to know the NAT64 preﬁx. This is
required in order to use DNSSEC on a NAT64 network.

[RFC6147], Section

Trusted DNS server. AAAA synthesis is required for the host to be able to use a DNS server
not provided by the network (e.g., a DNS-over-TLS
[RFC8484]

 server with which the host has an existing trust relationship).

 or DNS-over-HTTPS

[RFC7858]

Networks with no DNS64 server. Hosts that support AAAA synthesis and are aware of the
NAT64 preﬁx in use do not need the network to perform the DNS64 function at all.

•

Enabling NAT64 address-translation functions on end hosts. For example:

◦

◦

IPv4 address literals on an IPv6-only host. As described in
hosts connecting to IPv4 address literals can translate the IPv4 literal to an IPv6 literal.

[RFC8305], Section 7.1

, IPv6-only

464XLAT

[RFC6877]

. 464XLAT requires the host be aware of the NAT64 preﬁx.

3.  Why Include the NAT64 Preﬁx in Router Advertisements?

Fate sharing:

Colitti & Linkova

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8781

Discovering PREF64 in Router Advertisements

April 2020

[RFC4861]

NAT64 requires routing to be conﬁgured. IPv6 routing conﬁguration requires receiving an
IPv6 RA
that NAT64 reachability information shares the fate of the rest of the network
conﬁguration on the host.

. Therefore, using RAs to provide hosts with the NAT64 preﬁx ensures

Atomic conﬁguration:

Including the NAT64 preﬁx in the RA minimizes the number of packets

required to conﬁgure a host. Only one packet (an RA) is required to complete the network
conﬁguration. This speeds up the process of connecting to a network that supports NAT64/
DNS64. It also simpliﬁes host implementation by removing the possibility that the host can
have an incomplete Layer 3 conﬁguration (e.g., IPv6 addresses and preﬁxes, but no NAT64
preﬁx).

Updatability:

It is possible to change the NAT64 preﬁx at any time, because when it changes, it

is possible to notify hosts by sending a new RA.

Deployability:

All IPv6 hosts and networks are required to support Neighbor Discovery
 so just a minor extension to the existing implementation is required. Other

[RFC4861]
options, such as
Protocol (PCP)

[RFC7225]

, require implementing other protocols (e.g., Port Control

[RFC7225]

), which could be considered an obstacle for deployment.

4.  Option Format

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |    Length     |     Scaled Lifetime     | PLC |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
+                                                               +
|              Highest 96 bits of the Prefix                    |
+                                                               +
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: NAT64 Preﬁx Option Format

Fields:

Type:

8-bit identiﬁer of the PREF64 option type (38)

Length:

8-bit unsigned integer. The length of the option (including the Type and Length ﬁelds) is

in units of 8 octets. The sender
PREF64 option if the Length ﬁeld value is not 2.

MUST

 set the length to 2. The receiver

MUST

 ignore the

Scaled Lifetime:

13-bit unsigned integer. The maximum time in units of 8 seconds over which

this NAT64 preﬁx
rules.

MAY

 be used. See Section 4.1 for the Scaled Lifetime ﬁeld processing

Colitti & Linkova

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8781

Discovering PREF64 in Router Advertisements

April 2020

PLC (Preﬁx Length Code):

3-bit unsigned integer. This ﬁeld encodes the NAT64 Preﬁx Length
. The PLC ﬁeld values 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 indicate the NAT64 preﬁx

[RFC6052]

deﬁned in
length of 96, 64, 56, 48, 40, and 32 bits, respectively. The receiver
MUST
option if the Preﬁx Length Code ﬁeld is not set to one of those values.

 ignore the PREF64

Highest 96 bits of the Preﬁx:

96-bit unsigned integer. Contains bits 0 - 95 of the NAT64 preﬁx.

4.1.  Scaled Lifetime Processing

Section 4.2 of [RFC4861]

It would be highly undesirable for the NAT64 preﬁx to have a lifetime shorter than the Router
Lifetime, which is deﬁned in
 as a 16-bit unsigned integer. If the NAT64
preﬁx lifetime is not at least equal to the default Router Lifetime, it might lead to scenarios in
which the NAT64 preﬁx lifetime expires before the arrival of the next unsolicited RA. Therefore,
the Scaled Lifetime encodes the NAT64 preﬁx lifetime in units of 8 seconds. The receiver
multiply the Scaled Lifetime value by 8 (for example, by a logical left shift) to calculate the
 be used. The maximum lifetime of the NAT64 preﬁx is
maximum time in seconds the preﬁx
thus 65528 seconds. To ensure that the NAT64 preﬁx does not expire before the default router, it
is
using this option. A lifetime of 0 indicates that the preﬁx

 to conﬁgure default Router Lifetimes greater than 65528 seconds when

NOT RECOMMENDED

 be used anymore.

SHOULD NOT

MUST

MAY

By default, the value of the Scaled Lifetime ﬁeld
MaxRtrAdvInterval
[RFC4861]

 divided by 8, or 8191.

SHOULD

 be set to the lesser of 3 x

 allow administrators to specify nonzero lifetime values that are not

Router vendors
SHOULD
divisible by 8. In such cases, the router
integer that is divisible by 8 and smaller than 65536, then divide the result by 8 (or perform a
logical right shift by 3) and set the Scaled Lifetime ﬁeld to the resulting value. If a nonzero
lifetime value that is to be divided by 8 (or subjected to a logical right shift by 3) is less than 8,
then the Scaled Lifetime ﬁeld
 be set to 1. This last step ensures that lifetimes under 8
seconds are encoded as a nonzero Scaled Lifetime.

 round the provided value up to the nearest

SHOULD

SHOULD

5.  Usage Guidelines

This option speciﬁes exactly one NAT64 preﬁx for all IPv4 destinations. If the network operator
wants to route diﬀerent parts of the IPv4 address space to diﬀerent NAT64 devices, this can be
accomplished by routing more speciﬁc subpreﬁxes of the NAT64 preﬁx to those devices. For
example, suppose an operator is using the
[RFC1918]
operator might want to route 10.0.0.0/8 through NAT64 device A, and the rest of the IPv4 space
through NAT64 device B. If the operator's NAT64 preﬁx is 2001:db8:a:b::/96, then the operator can
route 2001:db8:a:b::a00:0/104 to NAT64 A and 2001:db8:a:b::/96 to NAT64 B.

 address space 10.0.0.0/8 internally. That

This option may appear more than once in an RA (e.g., when gracefully renumbering the
network from one NAT64 preﬁx to another). Host behavior with regard to synthesizing IPv6
addresses from IPv4 addresses
[RFC7050]

, limited to the NAT64 preﬁxes that have a nonzero lifetime.

 follow the recommendations given in

Section 3 of

SHOULD

Colitti & Linkova

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8781

Discovering PREF64 in Router Advertisements

April 2020

In a network (or a provisioning domain) that provides both IPv4 and NAT64, it may be desirable
for certain IPv4 addresses not to be translated. An example might be private address ranges that
are local to the network/provisioning domain and that should not be reached through the NAT64.
This type of conﬁguration cannot be conveyed to hosts using this option, or through other NAT64
. This problem does not apply in
preﬁx provisioning mechanisms such as
IPv6-only networks: the host in an IPv6-only network does not have an IPv4 address and cannot
reach any IPv4 destinations without the NAT64.

[RFC7225]

[RFC7050]

 or

5.1.  Handling Multiple NAT64 Preﬁxes

In some cases, a host may receive multiple NAT64 preﬁxes from diﬀerent sources. Possible
scenarios include (but are not limited to):

•

the host is using multiple mechanisms to discover PREF64 preﬁxes (e.g., by using PCP
[RFC7225]
to receiving the PREF64 RA option);

) and/or resolving an IPv4-only fully qualiﬁed domain name

[RFC7050]

 in addition

•

the PREF64 option presents in a single RA more than once;

•

the host receives multiple RAs with diﬀerent PREF64 preﬁxes on a given interface.

When multiple PREF64s are discovered via the RA PREF64 Option (either the Option presents
more than once in a single RA or multiple RAs are received), host behavior with regard to
synthesizing IPv6 addresses from IPv4 addresses
Section 3 of [RFC7050]

, limited to the NAT64 preﬁxes that have a nonzero lifetime.

 follow the recommendations given in

SHOULD

When diﬀerent PREF64s are discovered using multiple mechanisms, hosts
source of information only. The

RECOMMENDED

 order is:

SHOULD

 select one

•

PCP-discovered preﬁxes

[RFC7225]

, if supported;

•

PREF64s discovered via the RA Option;

•

PREF64s resolving an IPv4-only fully qualiﬁed domain name

[RFC7050]

Note: If the network provides PREF64s via both this RA Option and
the PREF64 via the RA Option may choose to use it immediately (before waiting for the PCP to
complete); therefore, some traﬃc may not reﬂect any more detailed conﬁguration provided by
the PCP.

, hosts that receive

[RFC7225]

SHOULD

The host
Hosts that are aware of Provisioning Domain (PvD,
scoped to the implicit or explicit PvD.

 treat the PREF64 as being speciﬁc to the network interface it was received on.

[RFC7556] MUST

)

 treat the PREF64 as being

Colitti & Linkova

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8781

Discovering PREF64 in Router Advertisements

April 2020

5.2.  PREF64 Consistency

 recommends that routers inspect RAs sent by other routers to ensure
 inspect valid PREF64

Section 6.2.7 of [RFC4861]
that all routers onlink advertise consistent information. Routers
options received on a given link and verify the consistency. Detected inconsistencies indicate that
one or more routers might be misconﬁgured. Routers
network management. Routers

 check and compare the following information:

 log such cases to system or

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

•

set of PREF64s with a nonzero lifetime;

•

set of PREF64s with a zero lifetime.

Routers that are aware of PvD (
implicit or explicit PvD.

[RFC7556] MUST

)

 only compare information scoped to the same

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned a new IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Option type for the PREF64 option deﬁned in
this document in the "IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Option Formats" registry

[IANA]
.

Description

PREF64 option

Type

38

Table 1: New IANA Registry Assignment

7.  Security Considerations

Because RAs are required in all IPv6 conﬁguration scenarios, on IPv6-only networks, RAs must
already be secured -- e.g., by deploying an RA-Guard
RAs reduces the attack surface to be targeted by malicious attackers trying to provide hosts with
invalid conﬁguration, as compared to distributing the conﬁguration through multiple diﬀerent
mechanisms that need to be secured independently.

. Providing all conﬁguration in

[RFC6105]

If a host is provided with an incorrect NAT64 preﬁx, the IPv6-only host might not be able to
communicate with IPv4-only destinations. Connectivity to destinations reachable over IPv6
would not be impacted just by providing a host with an incorrect preﬁx; however, if attackers
are capable of sending rogue RAs, they can perform denial-of-service or man-in-the-middle
attacks, as described in

[RFC6104]

.

The security measures that must already be in place to ensure that RAs are only received from
legitimate sources eliminate the problem of NAT64 preﬁx validation described in
Section 3.1 of
.
[RFC7050]

Colitti & Linkova

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8781

Discovering PREF64 in Router Advertisements

April 2020

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[IANA]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4861]

[RFC6052]

[RFC7050]

[RFC8174]

,

IANA "Internet Control Message Protocol version 6 (ICMPv6) Parameters"
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/icmpv6-parameters>

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Narten, T., Nordmark, E., Simpson, W., and H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, September 2007,

,

,

.

,

Bao, C., Huitema, C., Bagnulo, M., Boucadair, M., and X. Li "IPv6 Addressing of
,
IPv4/IPv6 Translators" RFC 6052 DOI 10.17487/RFC6052
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6052>

,
, October 2010,

<https://

,

Savolainen, T., Korhonen, J., and D. Wing "Discovery of the IPv6 Preﬁx Used for
IPv6 Address Synthesis" RFC 7050 DOI 10.17487/RFC7050
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7050>

, November 2013,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

8.2.  Informative References

[RFC1918]

[RFC6104]

[RFC6105]

[RFC6146]

Rekhter, Y., Moskowitz, B., Karrenberg, D., de Groot, G. J., and E. Lear "Address
Allocation for Private Internets" BCP 5 RFC 1918 DOI 10.17487/RFC1918
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1918>
February 1996,

,

,

,

.

,

Chown, T. and S. Venaas "Rogue IPv6 Router Advertisement Problem
,
,
Statement" RFC 6104 DOI 10.17487/RFC6104
editor.org/info/rfc6104>

, February 2011,

.

,

<https://www.rfc-

Levy-Abegnoli, E., Van de Velde, G., Popoviciu, C., and J. Mohacsi "IPv6 Router
Advertisement Guard" RFC 6105 DOI 10.17487/RFC6105
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6105>

,
, February 2011,

,

.

,

Bagnulo, M., Matthews, P., and I. van Beijnum "Stateful NAT64: Network
Address and Protocol Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers" RFC 6146
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6146

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6146>

, April 2011,

,

,

,

Colitti & Linkova

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8781

Discovering PREF64 in Router Advertisements

April 2020

[RFC6147]

[RFC6877]

[RFC7225]

[RFC7556]

[RFC7858]

[RFC8305]

[RFC8484]

Bagnulo, M., Sullivan, A., Matthews, P., and I. van Beijnum "DNS64: DNS
Extensions for Network Address Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers"
RFC 6147 DOI 10.17487/RFC6147
, April 2011,
rfc6147>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

,

Mawatari, M., Kawashima, M., and C. Byrne "464XLAT: Combination of Stateful
<https://
and Stateless Translation" RFC 6877 DOI 10.17487/RFC6877
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6877>

, April 2013,

,

,

.

,

,

Boucadair, M. "Discovering NAT64 IPv6 Preﬁxes Using the Port Control Protocol
,
(PCP)" RFC 7225 DOI 10.17487/RFC7225
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc7225>

, May 2014,

,

.

Anipko, D., Ed. "Multiple Provisioning Domain Architecture" RFC 7556 DOI
10.17487/RFC7556

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7556>

, June 2015,

,

,

Hu, Z., Zhu, L., Heidemann, J., Mankin, A., Wessels, D., and P. Hoﬀman
"Speciﬁcation for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

,

.

,
Schinazi, D. and T. Pauly "Happy Eyeballs Version 2: Better Connectivity Using
,
Concurrency" RFC 8305 DOI 10.17487/RFC8305
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8305>

, December 2017,

<https://

,

.

Hoﬀman, P. and P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI
10.17487/RFC8484

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

Thanks to the following people (in alphabetical order) for their review and feedback:
Abrahamsson Mark Andrews Brian E Carpenter David Farmer Nick Heatley Robert Hinden
,
,
Martin Hunek Tatuya Jinmei Benjamin Kaduk Erik Kline Suresh Krishnan Warren Kumari
,
,
,
David Lamparter Barry Leiba Jordi Palet Martinez Tommy Pauly Alexandre Petrescu Michael
,
Richardson David Schinazi Ole Troan Eric Vynke Bernie Volz
.

Mikael

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Lorenzo Colitti
Google
Shibuya 3-21-3 Tokyo
150-0002
Japan
Email:

,

 lorenzo@google.com

Colitti & Linkova

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8781

Discovering PREF64 in Router Advertisements

April 2020

Jen Linkova
Google
1 Darling Island Rd
Pyrmont NSW 2009
Australia
Email:

 furry@google.com

Colitti & Linkova

Standards Track

Page 10

