Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8866
4566
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
A. Begen
Networked Media

P. Kyzivat

C. Perkins
University of Glasgow

M. Handley
UCL

RFC 8866
SDP: Session Description Protocol

Abstract

This memo deﬁnes the Session Description Protocol (SDP). SDP is intended for describing
multimedia sessions for the purposes of session announcement, session invitation, and other
forms of multimedia session initiation. This document obsoletes RFC 4566.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8866

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modiﬁcations of
such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modiﬁed
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Glossary of Terms

3.  Examples of SDP Usage

3.1.  Session Initiation

3.2.  Streaming Media

3.3.  Email and the World Wide Web

3.4.  Multicast Session Announcement

4.  Requirements and Recommendations

4.1.  Media and Transport Information

4.2.  Timing Information

4.3.  Obtaining Further Information about a Session

4.4.  Internationalization

5.  SDP Speciﬁcation

5.1.  Protocol Version ("v=")

5.2.  Origin ("o=")

5.3.  Session Name ("s=")

5.4.  Session Information ("i=")

5.5.  URI ("u=")

5.6.  Email Address and Phone Number ("e=" and "p=")

5.7.  Connection Information ("c=")

5.8.  Bandwidth Information ("b=")

5.9.  Time Active ("t=")

5.10. Repeat Times ("r=")

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

5.11. Time Zone Adjustment ("z=")

5.12. Encryption Keys ("k=")

5.13. Attributes ("a=")

5.14. Media Descriptions ("m=")

6.  SDP Attributes

6.1.  cat (Category)

6.2.  keywds (Keywords)

6.3.  tool

6.4.  ptime (Packet Time)

6.5.  maxptime (Maximum Packet Time)

6.6.  rtpmap

6.7.  Media Direction Attributes

6.7.1.  recvonly (Receive-Only)

6.7.2.  sendrecv (Send-Receive)

6.7.3.  sendonly (Send-Only)

6.7.4.  inactive

6.8.  orient (Orientation)

6.9.  type (Conference Type)

6.10. charset (Character Set)

6.11. sdplang (SDP Language)

6.12. lang (Language)

6.13. framerate (Frame Rate)

6.14. quality

6.15. fmtp (Format Parameters)

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  The "application/sdp" Media Type

8.2.  Registration of SDP Parameters with IANA

8.2.1.  Registration Procedure

8.2.2.  Media Types (<media>)

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

8.2.3.  Transport Protocols (<proto>)

8.2.4.  Attribute Names (<attribute-name>)

8.2.5.  Bandwidth Speciﬁers (<bwtype>)

8.2.6.  Network Types (<nettype>)

8.2.7.  Address Types (<addrtype>)

8.3.  Encryption Key Access Methods (OBSOLETE)

9.  SDP Grammar

10. Summary of Changes from RFC 4566

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

When initiating multimedia teleconferences, voice-over-IP calls, streaming video, or other
sessions, there is a requirement to convey media details, transport addresses, and other session
description metadata to the participants.

SDP provides a standard representation for such information, irrespective of how that
information is transported. SDP is purely a format for session description -- it does not
incorporate a transport protocol, and it is intended to use diﬀerent transport protocols as
appropriate, including the Session Announcement Protocol (SAP)
Protocol (SIP)
 using the MIME extensions
[RFC5322]
.
[RFC7230]

, Real-Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP)
[RFC2045]

, electronic mail

[RFC3261]

[RFC2974]

[RFC7826]

, and the Hypertext Transport Protocol (HTTP)

, Session Initiation

SDP is intended to be general purpose so that it can be used in a wide range of network
environments and applications. However, it is not intended to support negotiation of session
content or media encodings: this is viewed as outside the scope of session description.

This memo obsoletes
this memo.

[RFC4566]

. The changes relative to

[RFC4566]

 are outlined in Section 10 of

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

2.  Glossary of Terms

The following terms are used in this document and have speciﬁc meaning within the context of
this document.

Session Description:

A well-deﬁned format for conveying suﬃcient information to discover and

participate in a multimedia session.

Media Description:

A Media Description contains the information needed for one party to

establish an application-layer network protocol connection to another party. It starts with an
"m=" line and is terminated by either the next "m=" line or by the end of the session
description.

Session-Level Section:

This refers to the parts that are not media descriptions, whereas the

session description refers to the whole body that includes the session-level section and the
media description(s).

The terms "multimedia conference" and "multimedia session" are used in this document as
deﬁned in
this document.

. The terms "session" and "multimedia session" are used interchangeably in

[RFC7656]

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Examples of SDP Usage

3.1.  Session Initiation

Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) [RFC3261]

The
creating, modifying, and terminating sessions such as Internet multimedia conferences, Internet
telephone calls, and multimedia distribution. The SIP messages used to create sessions carry
session descriptions that allow participants to agree on a set of compatible media types
[RFC6838]
the

. These session descriptions are commonly formatted using SDP. When used with SIP,

 provides a limited framework for negotiation using SDP.

 is an application-layer control protocol for

oﬀer/answer model [RFC3264]

3.2.  Streaming Media

Real-Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP) [RFC7826]

The
over the delivery of data with real-time properties. RTSP provides an extensible framework to
enable controlled, on-demand delivery of real-time data, such as audio and video. An RTSP client
and server negotiate an appropriate set of parameters for media delivery, partially using SDP
syntax to describe those parameters.

, is an application-level protocol for control

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

3.3.  Email and the World Wide Web

Alternative means of conveying session descriptions include electronic mail and the World Wide
Web (WWW). For both email and WWW distribution, the media type "application/sdp" is used.
This enables the automatic launching of applications for participation in the session from the
WWW client or mail reader in a standard manner.

Note that descriptions of multicast sessions sent only via email or the WWW do not have the
property that the receiver of a session description can necessarily receive the session because the
multicast sessions may be restricted in scope, and access to the WWW server or reception of
email is possibly outside this scope.

3.4.  Multicast Session Announcement

In order to assist the advertisement of multicast multimedia conferences and other multicast
sessions, and to communicate the relevant session setup information to prospective participants,
a distributed session directory may be used. An instance of such a session directory periodically
sends packets containing a description of the session to a well-known multicast group. These
advertisements are received by other session directories such that potential remote participants
can use the session description to start the tools required to participate in the session.

One protocol used to implement such a distributed directory is the
the recommended session description format for such session announcements.

SAP [RFC2974]

. SDP provides

4.  Requirements and Recommendations

The purpose of SDP is to convey information about media streams in multimedia sessions to
allow the recipients of a session description to participate in the session. SDP is primarily
intended for use with Internet protocols, although it is suﬃciently general that it can describe
multimedia conferences in other network environments. Media streams can be many-to-many.
Sessions need not be continually active.

Thus far, multicast-based sessions on the Internet have diﬀered from many other forms of
conferencing in that anyone receiving the traﬃc can join the session (unless the session traﬃc is
encrypted). In such an environment, SDP serves two primary purposes. It is a means to
communicate the existence of a session, and it is a means to convey suﬃcient information to
enable joining and participating in the session. In a unicast environment, only the latter purpose
is likely to be relevant.

An SDP description includes the following:

•

Session name and purpose

•

Time(s) the session is active

•

The media comprising the session

•

Information needed to receive those media (addresses, ports, formats, etc.)

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

As resources necessary to participate in a session may be limited, some additional information
may also be desirable:

•

Information about the bandwidth to be used by the session

•

Contact information for the person responsible for the session

In general, SDP must convey suﬃcient information to enable applications to join a session (with
the possible exception of encryption keys) and to announce the resources to be used to any
nonparticipants that may need to know. (This latter feature is primarily useful when SDP is used
with a multicast session announcement protocol.)

4.1.  Media and Transport Information

An SDP description includes the following media information:

•

The type of media (video, audio, etc.)

•

The media transport protocol (RTP/UDP/IP, H.320, etc.)

•

The format of the media (H.261 video, MPEG video, etc.)

In addition to media format and transport protocol, SDP conveys address and port details. For an
IP multicast session, these comprise:

•

The multicast group address for media

•

The transport port for media

This address and port are the destination address and destination port of the multicast stream,
whether being sent, received, or both.

For unicast IP sessions, the following are conveyed:

•

The remote address for media

•

The remote transport port for media

The semantics of the address and port depend on context. Typically, this
address and remote port to which media is to be sent or received. Details may diﬀer based on the
network type, address type, protocol, and media speciﬁed, and whether the SDP is being
distributed as an advertisement or negotiated in an oﬀer/answer
address types or protocols may not have a notion of port.) Deviating from typical behavior
should be done cautiously since this complicates implementations (including middleboxes that
must parse the addresses to open Network Address Translation (NAT) or ﬁrewall pinholes).

 exchange. (E.g., Some

 be the remote

[RFC3264]

SHOULD

4.2.  Timing Information

Sessions may be either bounded or unbounded in time. Whether or not they are bounded, they
may be only active at speciﬁc times. SDP can convey:

•

An arbitrary list of start and stop times bounding the session

•

For each bound, repeat times such as "every Wednesday at 10am for one hour"

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

This timing information is globally consistent, irrespective of local time zone or daylight saving
time (see Section 5.9).

4.3.  Obtaining Further Information about a Session

A session description could convey enough information to decide whether or not to participate in
a session. SDP may include additional pointers in the form of Uniform Resource Identiﬁers (URIs)
[RFC3986]
resources is subject to the security considerations from

 for more information about the session. (Note that use of URIs to indicate remote

[RFC3986]

.)

4.4.  Internationalization

 to allow many diﬀerent languages to be represented. However, to assist in compact

The SDP speciﬁcation recommends the use of the ISO 10646 character set in the UTF-8 encoding
[RFC3629]
representations, SDP also allows other character sets such as
desired. Internationalization only applies to free-text subﬁelds (session name and background
information), and not to SDP as a whole.

[ISO.8859-1.1998]

 to be used when

5.  SDP Speciﬁcation

An SDP description is denoted by the media type "application/sdp" (See Section 8).

MAY

[RFC3629]

 use the full ISO 10646

, but textual ﬁelds and attribute values

An SDP description is entirely textual. SDP ﬁeld names and attribute names use only the US-ASCII
subset of UTF-8
character set in UTF-8 encoding, or some other character set deﬁned by the "a=charset:" attribute
(Section 6.10). Field and attribute values that use the full UTF-8 character set are never directly
compared, hence there is no requirement for UTF-8 normalization. The textual form, as opposed
to a binary encoding such as ASN.1 or XDR, was chosen to enhance portability, to enable a variety
of transports to be used, and to allow ﬂexible, text-based toolkits to be used to generate and
process session descriptions. However, since SDP may be used in environments where the
maximum permissible size of a session description is limited, the encoding is deliberately
compact. Also, since descriptions may be transported via very unreliable means or damaged by
an intermediate caching server, the encoding was designed with strict order and formatting
rules so that most errors would result in malformed session descriptions that could be detected
easily and discarded.

An SDP description consists of a number of lines of text of the form:

   <type>=<value>

where <type> is exactly one case-signiﬁcant character and <value> is structured text whose
format depends on <type>. In general, <value> is either a number of subﬁelds delimited by a
single space character or a free format string, and is case-signiﬁcant unless a speciﬁc ﬁeld
deﬁnes otherwise. Whitespace separators are not used on either side of the "=" sign, however, the
value can contain a leading whitespace as part of its syntax, i.e., that whitespace is part of the
value.

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

An SDP description
overview of the syntax.

MUST

 conform to the syntax deﬁned in Section 9. The following is an

An SDP description consists of a session-level section followed by zero or more media
descriptions. The session-level section starts with a "v=" line and continues to the ﬁrst media
description (or the end of the whole description, whichever comes ﬁrst). Each media description
starts with an "m=" line and continues to the next media description or the end of the whole
session description, whichever comes ﬁrst. In general, session-level values are the default for all
media unless overridden by an equivalent media-level value.

Some lines in each description are required and some are optional, but when present, they must
appear in exactly the order given here. (The ﬁxed order greatly enhances error detection and
allows for a simple parser). In the following overview, optional items are marked with a "*".

   Session description
      v=  (protocol version)
      o=  (originator and session identifier)
      s=  (session name)
      i=* (session information)
      u=* (URI of description)
      e=* (email address)
      p=* (phone number)
      c=* (connection information -- not required if included in
           all media descriptions)
      b=* (zero or more bandwidth information lines)
      One or more time descriptions:
        ("t=", "r=" and "z=" lines; see below)
      k=* (obsolete)
      a=* (zero or more session attribute lines)
      Zero or more media descriptions

   Time description
      t=  (time the session is active)
      r=* (zero or more repeat times)
      z=* (optional time zone offset line)

   Media description, if present
      m=  (media name and transport address)
      i=* (media title)
      c=* (connection information -- optional if included at
           session level)
      b=* (zero or more bandwidth information lines)
      k=* (obsolete)
      a=* (zero or more media attribute lines)

The set of type letters is deliberately small and not intended to be extensible -- an SDP parser
 completely ignore or reject any session description that contains a type letter that it does
MUST
not understand. The attribute mechanism ("a=", described in Section 5.13) is the primary means
for extending SDP and tailoring it to particular applications or media. Some attributes (the ones
listed in Section 6) have a deﬁned meaning, but others may be added on a media- or session-

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

speciﬁc basis. (Attribute scopes in addition to media-speciﬁc and session-speciﬁc scopes may also
be deﬁned in extensions to this document, e.g.,
ignore any attribute it doesn't understand.

.) An SDP parser

[RFC8864]

[RFC5576]

MUST

 and

An SDP description may contain URIs that reference external content in the "u=", "k=", and "a="
lines. These URIs may be dereferenced in some cases, making the session description non-self-
contained.

The connection ("c=") information in the session-level section applies to all the media
descriptions of that session unless overridden by connection information in the media
description. For instance, in the example below, each audio media description behaves as if it
were given a "c=IN IP4 198.51.100.1".

An example SDP description is:

      v=0
      o=jdoe 3724394400 3724394405 IN IP4 198.51.100.1
      s=Call to John Smith
      i=SDP Offer #1
      u=http://www.jdoe.example.com/home.html
      e=Jane Doe <jane@jdoe.example.com>
      p=+1 617 555-6011
      c=IN IP4 198.51.100.1
      t=0 0
      m=audio 49170 RTP/AVP 0
      m=audio 49180 RTP/AVP 0
      m=video 51372 RTP/AVP 99
      c=IN IP6 2001:db8::2
      a=rtpmap:99 h263-1998/90000

Text-containing ﬁelds such as the session-name-ﬁeld and information-ﬁeld are octet strings that
may contain any octet with the exceptions of 0x00 (Nul), 0x0a (ASCII newline), and 0x0d (ASCII
carriage return). The sequence CRLF (0x0d0a) is used to end a line, although parsers
tolerant and also accept lines terminated with a single newline character. If the "a=charset:"
attribute is not present, these octet strings
MUST
characters in UTF-8 encoding. When the "a=charset:" attribute is present the session-name-ﬁeld,
information-ﬁeld, and some attribute ﬁelds are interpreted according to the selected character
set.

 be interpreted as containing ISO-10646

SHOULD

 be

A session description can contain domain names in the "o=", "u=", "e=", "c=", and "a=" lines. Any
domain name used in SDP
domain names (IDNs)
MUST
deﬁned in
requirement is for compatibility with
predate the development of internationalized domain names).

MUST
 be represented using the ASCII Compatible Encoding (ACE) form

 be directly represented in UTF-8 or any other encoding (this

 and other early SDP-related standards, which

. Internationalized

 comply with

[RFC1035]

[RFC1034]

[RFC5890]

[RFC2327]

MUST NOT

 and

 and

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

5.1.  Protocol Version ("v=")

      v=0

The "v=" line (version-ﬁeld) gives the version of the Session Description Protocol. This memo
deﬁnes version 0. There is no minor version number.

5.2.  Origin ("o=")

     o=<username> <sess-id> <sess-version> <nettype> <addrtype>
     <unicast-address>

The "o=" line (origin-ﬁeld) gives the originator of the session (her username and the address of
the user's host) plus a session identiﬁer and version number:

<username>

is the user's login on the originating host, or it is "-" if the originating host does not

support the concept of user IDs. The <username>

MUST NOT

 contain spaces.

<sess-id>

is a numeric string such that the tuple of <username>, <sess-id>, <nettype>,
<addrtype>, and <unicast-address> forms a globally unique identiﬁer for the session. The
method of <sess-id> allocation is up to the creating tool, but a timestamp, in seconds since
January 1, 1900 UTC, is recommended to ensure uniqueness.

<sess-version>

is a version number for this session description. Its usage is up to the creating

tool, so long as <sess-version> is increased when a modiﬁcation is made to the session
description. Again, as with <sess-id> it is

 that a timestamp be used.

RECOMMENDED

<nettype>

is a text string giving the type of network. Initially, "IN" is deﬁned to have the

meaning "Internet", but other values

MAY

 be registered in the future (see Section 8).

<addrtype>

is a text string giving the type of the address that follows. Initially, "IP4" and "IP6"

are deﬁned, but other values

MAY

 be registered in the future (see Section 8).

<unicast-address>

is an address of the machine from which the session was created. For an

address type of "IP4", this is either a fully qualiﬁed domain name of the machine or the
dotted-decimal representation of an IP version 4 address of the machine. For an address type
of "IP6", this is either a fully qualiﬁed domain name of the machine or the address of the
machine represented as speciﬁed in
qualiﬁed domain name is the form that
case a globally unique address

. For both "IP4" and "IP6", the fully
 be given unless this is unavailable, in which

SHOULD
 be substituted.

Section 4 of [RFC5952]

MAY

In general, the "o=" line serves as a globally unique identiﬁer for this version of the session
description, and the subﬁelds excepting the version, taken together identify the session
irrespective of any modiﬁcations.

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

For privacy reasons, it is sometimes desirable to obfuscate the username and IP address of the
session originator. If this is a concern, an arbitrary <username> and private <unicast-address>
 be chosen to populate the "o=" line, provided that these are selected in a manner that does
MAY
not aﬀect the global uniqueness of the ﬁeld.

5.3.  Session Name ("s=")

   s=<session name>

The "s=" line (session-name-ﬁeld) is the textual session name. There
"s=" line per session description. The "s=" line
name, then "s= " or "s=-" (i.e., a single space or dash as the session name) is
session-level "a=charset:" attribute is present, it speciﬁes the character set used in the "s=" ﬁeld. If
a session-level "a=charset:" attribute is not present, the "s=" ﬁeld
characters in UTF-8 encoding.

 be empty. If a session has no meaningful

 be one and only one

 contain ISO 10646

RECOMMENDED

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

. If a

5.4.  Session Information ("i=")

   i=<session information>

The "i=" line (information-ﬁeld) provides textual information about the session. There can be at
most one session-level "i=" line per session description, and at most one "i=" line in each media
description. Unless a media-level "i=" line is provided, the session-level "i=" line applies to that
media description. If the "a=charset:" attribute is present, it speciﬁes the character set used in the
"i=" line. If the "a=charset:" attribute is not present, the "i=" line
characters in UTF-8 encoding.

 contain ISO 10646

MUST

At most one "i=" line can be used for each media description. In media deﬁnitions, "i=" lines are
primarily intended for labeling media streams. As such, they are most likely to be useful when a
single session has more than one distinct media stream of the same media type. An example
would be two diﬀerent whiteboards, one for slides and one for feedback and questions.

The "i=" line is intended to provide a free-form human-readable description of the session or the
purpose of a media stream. It is not suitable for parsing by automata.

5.5.  URI ("u=")

   u=<uri>

The "u=" line (uri-ﬁeld) provides a URI (Uniform Resource Identiﬁer)
be a pointer to additional human readable information about the session. This line is
No more than one "u=" line is allowed per session description.

[RFC3986]

. The URI should
OPTIONAL

.

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

5.6.  Email Address and Phone Number ("e=" and "p=")

   e=<email-address>
   p=<phone-number>

The "e=" line (email-ﬁeld) and "p=" line (phone-ﬁeld) specify contact information for the person
responsible for the session. This is not necessarily the same person that created the session
description.

Inclusion of an email address or phone number is

.
OPTIONAL

If an email address or phone number is present, it
description. More than one email or phone line can be given for a session description.

 be speciﬁed before the ﬁrst media

MUST

SHOULD

Phone numbers
number (see ITU-T Recommendation E.164
used to split up a phone-ﬁeld to aid readability if desired. For example:

[E164]

 be given in the form of an international public telecommunication

) preceded by a "+". Spaces and hyphens may be

   p=+1 617 555-6011

Both email addresses and phone numbers can have an
them, normally giving the name of the person who may be contacted. This
parentheses if it is present. For example:

OPTIONAL

 free text string associated with

MUST

 be enclosed in

   e=j.doe@example.com (Jane Doe)

The alternative
phone numbers. For example:

[RFC5322]

 name quoting convention is also allowed for both email addresses and

   e=Jane Doe <j.doe@example.com>

The free text string
alternatively in ISO-8859-1 or other encodings if the appropriate session-level "a=charset:"
attribute is set.

 be in the ISO-10646 character set with UTF-8 encoding, or

SHOULD

5.7.  Connection Information ("c=")

   c=<nettype> <addrtype> <connection-address>

The "c=" line (connection-ﬁeld) contains information necessary to establish a network
connection.

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

MUST

A session description
single "c=" line at the session level. It
media-level "c=" line(s) per-media-description, in which case the media-level values override the
session-level settings for the respective media.

 contain either at least one "c=" line in each media description or a

 contain a single session-level "c=" line and additional

MAY

The ﬁrst subﬁeld (<nettype>) is the network type, which is a text string giving the type of
network. Initially, "IN" is deﬁned to have the meaning "Internet", but other values
 be
registered in the future (see Section 8).

MAY

The second subﬁeld (<addrtype>) is the address type. This allows SDP to be used for sessions that
are not IP based. This memo only deﬁnes "IP4" and "IP6", but other values
the future (see Section 8).

 be registered in

MAY

The third subﬁeld (<connection-address>) is the connection address. Additional subﬁelds
added after the connection address depending on the value of the <addrtype> subﬁeld.

MAY

 be

When the <addrtype> is "IP4" or "IP6", the connection address is deﬁned as follows:

•

If the session is multicast, the connection address will be an IP multicast group address. If
the session is not multicast, then the connection address contains the unicast IP address of
the expected data source, data relay, or data sink as determined by additional attribute-ﬁelds
(Section 5.13). It is not expected that unicast addresses will be given in a session description
that is communicated by a multicast announcement, though this is not prohibited.

•

Sessions using an "IP4" multicast connection address
value present in addition to the multicast address. The TTL and the address together deﬁne
the scope with which multicast packets sent in this session will be sent. TTL values
 be
in the range 0-255. Although the TTL
deprecated; applications

 use an administratively scoped address instead.

 be speciﬁed, its use to scope multicast traﬃc is

 also have a time to live (TTL)

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

MUST

The TTL for the session is appended to the address using a slash as a separator. An example is:

   c=IN IP4 233.252.0.1/127

"IP6" multicast does not use TTL scoping, and hence the TTL value
 be present for "IP6"
multicast. It is expected that IPv6 scoped addresses will be used to limit the scope of multimedia
conferences.

MUST NOT

Hierarchical or layered encoding schemes are data streams where the encoding from a single
media source is split into a number of layers. The receiver can choose the desired quality (and
hence bandwidth) by only subscribing to a subset of these layers. Such layered encodings are
normally transmitted in multiple multicast groups to allow multicast pruning. This technique

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

keeps unwanted traﬃc from sites only requiring certain levels of the hierarchy. For applications
requiring multiple multicast groups, we allow the following notation to be used for the
connection address:

   <base multicast address>[/<ttl>]/<number of addresses>

If the number of addresses is not given, it is assumed to be one. Multicast addresses so assigned
are contiguously allocated above the base address, so that, for example:

   c=IN IP4 233.252.0.1/127/3

would state that addresses 233.252.0.1, 233.252.0.2, and 233.252.0.3 are to be used with a TTL of
127. This is semantically identical to including multiple "c=" lines in a media description:

   c=IN IP4 233.252.0.1/127
   c=IN IP4 233.252.0.2/127
   c=IN IP4 233.252.0.3/127

Similarly, an IPv6 example would be:

   c=IN IP6 ff00::db8:0:101/3

which is semantically equivalent to:

   c=IN IP6 ff00::db8:0:101
   c=IN IP6 ff00::db8:0:102
   c=IN IP6 ff00::db8:0:103

(remember that the TTL subﬁeld is not present in "IP6" multicast).

Multiple addresses or "c=" lines
 be speciﬁed on a per media description basis only if they
provide multicast addresses for diﬀerent layers in a hierarchical or layered encoding scheme.
Multiple addresses or "c=" lines

 be speciﬁed at session level.

MUST NOT

MAY

The slash notation for multiple addresses described above
addresses.

MUST NOT

 be used for IP unicast

5.8.  Bandwidth Information ("b=")

   b=<bwtype>:<bandwidth>

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

OPTIONAL

 "b=" line (bandwidth-ﬁeld) denotes the proposed bandwidth to be used by the

The
session or media description. The <bwtype> is an alphanumeric modiﬁer that provides the
meaning of the <bandwidth> number. Two values are deﬁned in this speciﬁcation, but other
values

 be registered in the future (see Section 8 and

[RFC3556] [RFC3890]
,

MAY

):

CT

If the bandwidth of a session is diﬀerent from the bandwidth implicit from the scope, a

SHOULD

[RFC8843]

 be supplied for the session giving the proposed upper limit to the

"b=CT:" line
bandwidth used (the "conference total" bandwidth). Similarly, if the bandwidth of bundled
 in an "m=" line is diﬀerent from the implicit value from the scope, a
media streams
"b=CT:" line
 be supplied in the media level. The primary purpose of this is to give an
approximate idea as to whether two or more sessions (or bundled media streams) can coexist
simultaneously. Note that a "b=CT:" line gives a total bandwidth ﬁgure for all the media at all
endpoints.

SHOULD

The Mux Category for "b=CT:" is NORMAL. This is discussed in

.
[RFC8859]

AS

The bandwidth is interpreted to be application speciﬁc (it will be the application's concept of

maximum bandwidth). Normally, this will coincide with what is set on the application's
"maximum bandwidth" control if applicable. For RTP-based applications, the "b=AS:" line
gives the RTP "session bandwidth" as deﬁned in
. Note that a "b=AS:"
line gives a bandwidth ﬁgure for a single media at a single endpoint, although there may be
many endpoints sending simultaneously.

Section 6.2 of [RFC3550]

The Mux Category for "b=AS:" is SUM. This is discussed in

.
[RFC8859]

[RFC4566]
purposes only. For example:

 deﬁned an "X-" preﬁx for <bwtype> names. This was intended for experimental

   b=X-YZ:128

NOT RECOMMENDED

. Instead new (non "X-" preﬁx) <bwtype> names
 be registered with IANA in the standard namespace. SDP

MUST

 ignore bandwidth-ﬁelds with unknown <bwtype> names. The <bwtype> names
 be alphanumeric and, although no length limit is given, it is recommended that they be

 be deﬁned, and then
MUST

Use of the "X-" preﬁx is
SHOULD
parsers
MUST
short.

The <bandwidth> is interpreted as kilobits per second by default (including the transport and
network-layer, but not the link-layer, overhead). The deﬁnition of a new <bwtype> modiﬁer
specify that the bandwidth is to be interpreted in some alternative unit (the "CT" and "AS"
modiﬁers deﬁned in this memo use the default units).

MAY

5.9.  Time Active ("t=")

   t=<start-time> <stop-time>

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

A "t=" line (time-ﬁeld) begins a time description that speciﬁes the start and stop times for a
session. Multiple time descriptions
 be used if a session is active at multiple irregularly
spaced times; each additional time description speciﬁes additional periods of time for which the
session will be active. If the session is active at regular repeat times, a repeat description, begun
by an "r=" line (see Section 5.10) can be included following the time-ﬁeld -- in which case the
time-ﬁeld speciﬁes the start and stop times of the entire repeat sequence.

MAY

The following example speciﬁes two active intervals:

   t=3724394400 3724398000 ; Mon 8-Jan-2018 10:00-11:00 UTC
   t=3724484400 3724488000 ; Tue 9-Jan-2018 11:00-12:00 UTC

The ﬁrst and second subﬁelds of the time-ﬁeld give the start and stop times, respectively, for the
session. These are the decimal representation of time values in seconds since January 1, 1900
UTC. To convert these values to Unix time (UTC), subtract decimal 2208988800.

Some time representations will wrap in the year 2036. Because SDP uses an arbitrary length
decimal representation, it does not have this issue. Implementations of SDP need to be prepared
to handle these larger values.

If the <stop-time> is set to zero, then the session is not bounded, though it will not become active
until after the <start-time>. If the <start-time> is also zero, the session is regarded as permanent.

SHOULD

User interfaces
as they give no information about when the session is actually going to terminate, and so make
scheduling diﬃcult.

 strongly discourage the creation of unbounded and permanent sessions

The general assumption may be made, when displaying unbounded sessions that have not timed
out to the user, that an unbounded session will only be active until half an hour from the current
time or the session start time, whichever is the later. If behavior other than this is required, a
<stop-time>
available about when the session should really end.

 be given and modiﬁed as appropriate when new information becomes

SHOULD

Permanent sessions may be shown to the user as never being active unless there are associated
repeat times that state precisely when the session will be active.

5.10.  Repeat Times ("r=")

   r=<repeat interval> <active duration> <offsets from start-time>

An"r=" line (repeat-ﬁeld) speciﬁes repeat times for a session. If needed to express complex
schedules, multiple repeat-ﬁelds may be included. For example, if a session is active at 10am on
Monday and 11am on Tuesday for one hour each week for three months, then the <start-time> in
the corresponding "t=" line would be the representation of 10am on the ﬁrst Monday, the <repeat
interval> would be 1 week, the <active duration> would be 1 hour, and the oﬀsets would be zero

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

and 25 hours. The corresponding "t=" line stop time would be the representation of the end of the
last session three months later. By default, all subﬁelds are in seconds, so the "r=" and "t=" lines
might be the following:

   t=3724394400 3730536000 ; Mon 8-Jan-2018 10:00-11:00 UTC
                           ; Tues 20-Mar-2018 12:00 UTC
   r=604800 3600 0 90000   ; 1 week, 1 hour, zero, 25 hours

To make the description more compact, times may also be given in units of days, hours, or
minutes. The syntax for these is a number immediately followed by a single case-sensitive
character. Fractional units are not allowed -- a smaller unit should be used instead. The following
unit speciﬁcation characters are allowed:

d

h

days (86400 seconds)

hours (3600 seconds)

m minutes (60 seconds)

s

seconds (allowed for completeness)

Table 1: Time Unit Speciﬁcation Characters

Thus, the above repeat-ﬁeld could also have been written:

   r=7d 1h 0 25h

Monthly and yearly repeats cannot be directly speciﬁed with a single SDP repeat time; instead,
separate time-descriptions should be used to explicitly list the session times.

5.11.  Time Zone Adjustment ("z=")

   z=<adjustment time> <offset> <adjustment time> <offset> ....

A "z=" line (zone-ﬁeld) is an optional modiﬁer to the repeat-ﬁelds it immediately follows. It does
not apply to any other ﬁelds.

To schedule a repeated session that spans a change from daylight saving time to standard time or
vice versa, it is necessary to specify oﬀsets from the base time. This is required because diﬀerent
time zones change time at diﬀerent times of day, diﬀerent countries change to or from daylight
saving time on diﬀerent dates, and some countries do not have daylight saving time at all.

Thus, in order to schedule a session that is at the same time winter and summer, it must be
possible to specify unambiguously by whose time zone a session is scheduled. To simplify this
task for receivers, we allow the sender to specify the time (represented as seconds since January

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

1, 1900 UTC) that a time zone adjustment happens and the oﬀset from the time when the session
was ﬁrst scheduled. The "z=" line allows the sender to specify a list of these adjustment times and
oﬀsets from the base time.

An example might be the following:

   t=3724394400 3754123200       ; Mon 8-Jan-2018 10:00 UTC
                                 ; Tues 18-Dec-2018 12:00 UTC
   r=604800 3600 0 90000         ; 1 week, 1 hour, zero, 25 hours
   z=3730928400 -1h 3749680800 0 ; Sun 25-Mar-2018 1:00 UTC,
                                 ; offset 1 hour,
                                 ; Sun 28-Oct-2018 2:00 UTC,
                                 ; no offset

This speciﬁes that at time 3730928400 (Sun 25-Mar-2018 1:00 UTC, the onset of British Summer
Time) the time base by which the session's repeat times are calculated is shifted back by 1 hour,
and that at time 3749680800 (Sun 28-Oct-2018 2:00 UTC, the end of British Summer Time) the
session's original time base is restored. Adjustments are always relative to the speciﬁed start time
-- they are not cumulative.

If a session is likely to last several years, it is expected that the session description will be
modiﬁed periodically rather than transmit several years' worth of adjustments in one session
description.

5.12.  Encryption Keys ("k=")

   k=<method>
   k=<method>:<encryption key>

The "k=" line (key-ﬁeld) is obsolete and
legacy reasons. One
in an SDP.

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

 be used. It is included in this document for

 include a "k=" line in an SDP, and

MUST

 discard it if it is received

5.13.  Attributes ("a=")

   a=<attribute-name>
   a=<attribute-name>:<attribute-value>

Attributes are the primary means for extending SDP. Attributes may be deﬁned to be used as
session-level attributes, media-level attributes, or both. (Attribute scopes in addition to media-
level and session-level scopes may also be deﬁned in extensions to this document, e.g.,
and

[RFC8864]

.)

[RFC5576]

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

A media description may contain any number of "a=" lines (attribute-ﬁelds) that are media
description speciﬁc. These are referred to as media-level attributes and add information about
the media description. Attribute-ﬁelds can also be added before the ﬁrst media description; these
session-level attributes convey additional information that applies to the session as a whole
rather than to individual media descriptions.

Attribute-ﬁelds may be of two forms:

•

A property attribute is simply of the form "a=<attribute-name>". These are binary attributes,
and the presence of the attribute conveys that the attribute is a property of the session. An
example might be "a=recvonly".

•

A value attribute is of the form "a=<attribute-name>:<attribute-value>". For example, a
whiteboard could have the value attribute "a=orient:landscape".

Attribute interpretation depends on the media tool being invoked. Thus receivers of session
descriptions should be conﬁgurable in their interpretation of session descriptions in general and
of attributes in particular.

Attribute names

MUST

 use the US-ASCII subset of ISO-10646/UTF-8.

MAY

 use any octet value except 0x00 (Nul), 0x0A (LF), and

Attribute values are octet strings, and
0x0D (CR). By default, attribute values are to be interpreted as in ISO-10646 character set with
UTF-8 encoding. Unlike other text ﬁelds, attribute values are NOT normally aﬀected by the
"a=charset:" attribute as this would make comparisons against known values problematic.
However, when an attribute is deﬁned, it can be deﬁned to be charset dependent, in which case
its value should be interpreted in the session charset rather than in ISO-10646.

Attributes
understood, it

MUST

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

 be registered with IANA (see Section 8). If an attribute is received that is not

5.14.  Media Descriptions ("m=")

   m=<media> <port> <proto> <fmt> ...

A session description may contain a number of media descriptions. Each media description starts
with an "m=" line (media-ﬁeld) and is terminated by either the next "m=" line or by the end of the
session description. A media-ﬁeld has several subﬁelds:

<media>

is the media type. This document deﬁnes the values "audio", "video", "text",

"application", and "message". This list is extended by other memos and may be further
extended by additional memos registering media types in the future (see Section 8). For
example,

 deﬁned the "image" media type.

[RFC6466]

<port>

is the transport port to which the media stream is sent. The meaning of the transport

port depends on the network being used as speciﬁed in the relevant "c=" line, and on the
transport protocol deﬁned in the <proto> subﬁeld of the media-ﬁeld. Other ports used by the

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

media application (such as the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) port
algorithmically from the base media port or
example, the "a=rtcp:" attribute as deﬁned in

MAY
[RFC3605]

).

[RFC3550] MAY

)

 be derived

 be speciﬁed in a separate attribute (for

If noncontiguous ports are used or if they don't follow the parity rule of even RTP ports and
odd RTCP ports, the "a=rtcp:" attribute
media to a <port> that is odd and where the "a=rtcp:" attribute is present
from the RTP port: that is, they
RTCP to the port indicated in the "a=rtcp:" attribute.

 subtract 1
 send the RTP to the port indicated in <port> and send the

 be used. Applications that are requested to send

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

For applications where hierarchically encoded streams are being sent to a unicast address, it
may be necessary to specify multiple transport ports. This is done using a similar notation to
that used for IP multicast addresses in the "c=" line:

    m=<media> <port>/<number of ports> <proto> <fmt> ...

In such a case, the ports used depend on the transport protocol. For RTP, the default is that
only the even-numbered ports are used for data with the corresponding one-higher odd ports
used for the RTCP belonging to the RTP session, and the <number of ports> denoting the
number of RTP sessions. For example:

       m=video 49170/2 RTP/AVP 31

would specify that ports 49170 and 49171 form one RTP/RTCP pair, and 49172 and 49173 form
the second RTP/RTCP pair. RTP/AVP is the transport protocol, and 31 is the format (see the
description of <fmt> below).

This document does not include a mechanism for declaring hierarchically encoded streams
using noncontiguous ports. (There is currently no attribute deﬁned that can accomplish this.
 does not handle hierarchical encoding.) If a need
The "a=rtcp:" attribute deﬁned in
arises to declare noncontiguous ports then it will be necessary to deﬁne a new attribute to do
so.

[RFC3605]

If multiple addresses are speciﬁed in the "c=" line and multiple ports are speciﬁed in the "m="
line, a one-to-one mapping from port to the corresponding address is implied. For example:

       m=video 49170/2 RTP/AVP 31
       c=IN IP4 233.252.0.1/127/2

would imply that address 233.252.0.1 is used with ports 49170 and 49171, and address
233.252.0.2 is used with ports 49172 and 49173.

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

The mapping is similar if multiple addresses are speciﬁed using multiple "c=" lines. For
example:

       m=video 49170/2 RTP/AVP 31
       c=IN IP6 ff00::db8:0:101
       c=IN IP6 ff00::db8:0:102

would imply that address ﬀ00::db8:0:101 is used with ports 49170 and 49171, and address
ﬀ00::db8:0:102 is used with ports 49172 and 49173.

This document gives no meaning to assigning the same media address to multiple media
descriptions. Doing so does not implicitly group those media descriptions in any way. An
explicit grouping framework (for example,
intended semantics. For instance, see

[RFC5888]
.

) should instead be used to express the

[RFC8843]

<proto>

is the transport protocol. The meaning of the transport protocol is dependent on the
address type subﬁeld in the relevant "c=" line. Thus a "c=" line with an address type of "IP4"
indicates that the transport protocol runs over IPv4. The following transport protocols are
deﬁned, but may be extended through registration of new protocols with IANA (see Section 8):

•

udp: denotes that the data is transported directly in UDP with no additional framing.

•

RTP/AVP: denotes
Conferences with Minimal Control [RFC3551]

RTP [RFC3550]

 used under the

 running over UDP.

RTP Proﬁle for Audio and Video

•

RTP/SAVP: denotes the

Secure Real-time Transport Protocol [RFC3711]

 running over UDP.

•

RTP/SAVPF: denotes SRTP with the
[RFC5124]

 running over UDP.

Extended SRTP Proﬁle for RTCP-Based Feedback

The main reason to specify the transport protocol in addition to the media format is that the
same standard media formats may be carried over diﬀerent transport protocols even when
the network protocol is the same -- a historical example is vat (MBone's popular multimedia
audio tool) Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) audio and RTP PCM audio; another might be TCP/
RTP PCM audio. In addition, relays and monitoring tools that are transport-protocol-speciﬁc
but format-independent are possible.

<fmt>

is a media format description. The fourth and any subsequent subﬁelds describe the
format of the media. The interpretation of the media format depends on the value of the
<proto> subﬁeld.

If the <proto> subﬁeld is "RTP/AVP" or "RTP/SAVP", the <fmt> subﬁelds contain RTP payload
type numbers. When a list of payload type numbers is given, this implies that all of these
payload formats MAY be used in the session, and these payload formats are listed in order of
preference, with the ﬁrst format listed being preferred. When multiple payload formats are
listed, the ﬁrst acceptable payload format from the beginning of the list
 be used for
the session. For dynamic payload type assignments, the "a=rtpmap:" attribute (see Section 6.6)

SHOULD

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

 be used to map from an RTP payload type number to a media encoding name that

SHOULD
identiﬁes the payload format. The "a=fmtp:" attribute
parameters (see Section 6.15).

MAY

 be used to specify format

If the <proto> subﬁeld is "udp", the <fmt> subﬁelds
the format under the "audio", "video", "text", "application", or "message" top-level media types.
The media type registration

 deﬁne the packet format for use with UDP transport.

 reference a media type describing

SHOULD

MUST

For media using other transport protocols, the <fmt> subﬁeld is protocol speciﬁc. Rules for
interpretation of the <fmt> subﬁeld
 be deﬁned when registering new protocols (see
Section 8.2.2).

MUST

 states that the payload format (encoding) names deﬁned in the RTP

Section 3 of [RFC4855]
proﬁle are commonly shown in upper case, while media subtype names are commonly shown
in lower case. It also states that both of these names are case-insensitive in both places,
similar to parameter names which are case-insensitive both in media type strings and in the
default mapping to the SDP "a=fmtp:" attribute.

6.  SDP Attributes

The following attributes are deﬁned. Since application writers may add new attributes as they
are required, this list is not exhaustive. Registration procedures for new attributes are deﬁned in
Section 8.2.4. Syntax is provided using ABNF
 with some of the rules deﬁned further in
Section 9.

[RFC7405]

6.1.  cat (Category)

Name:

cat

Value:

cat-value

Usage Level:

session

Charset Dependent:

no

Syntax:

      cat-value = category
      category = non-ws-string

Example:

      a=cat:foo.bar

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

This attribute gives the dot-separated hierarchical category of the session. This is to enable a
receiver to ﬁlter unwanted sessions by category. There is no central registry of categories. This
attribute is obsolete and

 be ignored if received.

SHOULD NOT

 be used. It

SHOULD

6.2.  keywds (Keywords)

Name:

keywds

Value:

keywds-value

Usage Level:

session

Charset Dependent:

yes

Syntax:

      keywds-value = keywords
      keywords = text

Example:

      a=keywds:SDP session description protocol

Like the "a=cat:" attribute, this was intended to assist identifying wanted sessions at the receiver,
and to allow a receiver to select interesting sessions based on keywords describing the purpose
of the session; however, there is no central registry of keywords. Its value should be interpreted
in the charset speciﬁed for the session description if one is speciﬁed, or by default in ISO 10646/
UTF-8. This attribute is obsolete and

 be ignored if received.

SHOULD NOT

 be used. It

SHOULD

6.3.  tool

Name:

tool

Value:

tool-value

Usage Level:

session

Charset Dependent:

no

Syntax:

      tool-value = tool-name-and-version
      tool-name-and-version = text

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8866

Example:

      a=tool:foobar V3.2

SDP

January 2021

This gives the name and version number of the tool used to create the session description.

6.4.  ptime (Packet Time)

Name:

ptime

Value:

ptime-value

Usage Level:

media

Charset Dependent:

no

Syntax:

      ptime-value = non-zero-int-or-real

Example:

      a=ptime:20

This gives the length of time in milliseconds represented by the media in a packet. This is
probably only meaningful for audio data, but may be used with other media types if it makes
sense. It should not be necessary to know "a=ptime:" to decode RTP or vat audio, and it is
intended as a recommendation for the encoding/packetization of audio.

6.5.  maxptime (Maximum Packet Time)

Name:

maxptime

Value:

maxptime-value

Usage Level:

media

Charset Dependent:

no

Syntax:

      maxptime-value = non-zero-int-or-real

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8866

Example:

      a=maxptime:20

SDP

January 2021

This gives the maximum amount of media that can be encapsulated in each packet, expressed as
time in milliseconds. The time
the packet represents. For frame-based codecs, the time
frame size. This attribute is probably only meaningful for audio data, but may be used with other
media types if it makes sense. Note that this attribute was introduced after
implementations that have not been updated will ignore this attribute.

 be calculated as the sum of the time the media present in

 be an integer multiple of the

[RFC2327]

SHOULD

SHALL

, and

6.6.  rtpmap

Name:

rtpmap

Value:

rtpmap-value

Usage Level:

media

Charset Dependent:

no

Syntax:

      rtpmap-value = payload-type SP encoding-name
        "/" clock-rate [ "/" encoding-params ]
      payload-type = zero-based-integer
      encoding-name = token
      clock-rate = integer
      encoding-params = channels
      channels = integer

This attribute maps from an RTP payload type number (as used in an "m=" line) to an encoding
name denoting the payload format to be used. It also provides information on the clock rate and
encoding parameters. Note that the payload type number is indicated in a 7-bit ﬁeld, limiting the
values to inclusively between 0 and 127.

Although an RTP proﬁle can make static assignments of payload type numbers to payload
formats, it is more common for that assignment to be done dynamically using "a=rtpmap:"
attributes. As an example of a static payload type, consider u-law PCM encoded single-channel
audio sampled at 8 kHz. This is completely deﬁned in the RTP audio/video proﬁle as payload type
0, so there is no need for an "a=rtpmap:" attribute, and the media for such a stream sent to UDP
port 49232 can be speciﬁed as:

          m=audio 49232 RTP/AVP 0

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

An example of a dynamic payload type is 16-bit linear encoded stereo audio sampled at 16 kHz. If
we wish to use the dynamic RTP/AVP payload type 98 for this stream, additional information is
required to decode it:

          m=audio 49232 RTP/AVP 98
          a=rtpmap:98 L16/16000/2

Up to one "a=rtpmap:" attribute can be deﬁned for each media format speciﬁed. Thus, we might
have the following:

          m=audio 49230 RTP/AVP 96 97 98
          a=rtpmap:96 L8/8000
          a=rtpmap:97 L16/8000
          a=rtpmap:98 L16/11025/2

RTP proﬁles that specify the use of dynamic payload types
names and/or a means to register encoding names if that proﬁle is to be used with SDP. The "RTP/
AVP" and "RTP/SAVP" proﬁles use media subtypes for encoding names, under the top-level media
type denoted in the "m=" line. In the example above, the media types are "audio/L8" and "audio/
L16".

 deﬁne the set of valid encoding

MUST

For audio streams, encoding-params indicates the number of audio channels. This parameter is
OPTIONAL
parameters are needed.

 and may be omitted if the number of channels is one, provided that no additional

For video streams, no encoding parameters are currently speciﬁed.

Additional encoding parameters
SHOULD NOT
required for a session directory to make the choice of appropriate media to participate in a
session. Codec-speciﬁc parameters should be added in other attributes (for example, "a=fmtp:").

 be deﬁned in the future, but codec-speciﬁc parameters
 only be those

 be added. Parameters added to an "a=rtpmap:" attribute

SHOULD

MAY

Note: RTP audio formats typically do not include information about the number of samples per
packet. If a non-default (as deﬁned in the RTP Audio/Video Proﬁle
required, the "a=ptime:" attribute is used as given in Section 6.4.

) packetization is

[RFC3551]

6.7.  Media Direction Attributes

At most one occurrence of "a=recvonly", "a=sendrecv", "a=sendonly", or "a=inactive"
at session level, and at most one

 appear in each media description.

MAY

MAY

 appear

If any one of these appears in a media description, then it applies for that media description. If
none appears in a media description, then the one from session level, if any, applies to that
media description.

If none of the media direction attributes is present at either session level or media level,
"a=sendrecv"

 be assumed as the default.

SHOULD

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

Within the following SDP example, the "a=sendrecv" attribute applies to the ﬁrst audio media
and the "a=inactive" attribute applies to the others.

      v=0
      o=jdoe 3724395000 3724395001 IN IP6 2001:db8::1
      s=-
      c=IN IP6 2001:db8::1
      t=0 0
      a=inactive
      m=audio 49170 RTP/AVP 0
      a=sendrecv
      m=audio 49180 RTP/AVP 0
      m=video 51372 RTP/AVP 99
      a=rtpmap:99 h263-1998/90000

6.7.1.  recvonly (Receive-Only)

Name:

recvonly

Value:

Usage Level:

session, media

Charset Dependent:

no

Example:

      a=recvonly

This speciﬁes that the tools should be started in receive-only mode where applicable. Note that
receive-only mode applies to the media only, not to any associated control protocol. An RTP-
based system in receive-only mode
[RFC3550],
.
Section 6

 still send RTCP packets as described in

MUST

6.7.2.  sendrecv (Send-Receive)

Name:

sendrecv

Value:

Usage Level:

session, media

Charset Dependent:

no

Example:

      a=sendrecv

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

This speciﬁes that the tools should be started in send and receive mode. This is necessary for
interactive multimedia conferences with tools that default to receive-only mode.

6.7.3.  sendonly (Send-Only)

Name:

sendonly

Value:

Usage Level:

session, media

Charset Dependent:

no

Example:

      a=sendonly

This speciﬁes that the tools should be started in send-only mode. An example may be where a
diﬀerent unicast address is to be used for a traﬃc destination than for a traﬃc source. In such a
case, two media descriptions may be used, one in send-only mode and one in receive-vonly
mode. Note that send-only mode applies only to the media, and any associated control protocol
(e.g., RTCP)

 still be received and processed as normal.

SHOULD

6.7.4.  inactive

Name:

inactive

Value:

Usage Level:

session, media

Charset Dependent:

no

Example:

      a=inactive

This speciﬁes that the tools should be started in inactive mode. This is necessary for interactive
multimedia conferences where users can put other users on hold. No media is sent over an
inactive media stream. Note that an RTP-based system
even if started in inactive mode.

 still send RTCP (if RTCP is used),

MUST

6.8.  orient (Orientation)

Name:

orient

Value:

orient-value

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

Usage Level:

media

Charset Dependent:

no

Syntax:

      orient-value = portrait / landscape / seascape
      portrait  = %s"portrait"
      landscape = %s"landscape"
      seascape  = %s"seascape"
         ; NOTE: These names are case-sensitive.

Example:

      a=orient:portrait

Normally this is only used for a whiteboard or presentation tool. It speciﬁes the orientation of
the workspace on the screen. Permitted values are "portrait", "landscape", and "seascape"
(upside-down landscape).

6.9.  type (Conference Type)

Name:

type

Value:

type-value

Usage Level:

session

Charset Dependent:

no

Syntax:

      type-value = conference-type
      conference-type = broadcast / meeting / moderated / test /
                        H332
      broadcast = %s"broadcast"
      meeting   = %s"meeting"
      moderated = %s"moderated"
      test      = %s"test"
      H332      = %s"H332"
         ; NOTE: These names are case-sensitive.

Example:

      a=type:moderated

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

This speciﬁes the type of the multimedia conference. Allowed values are "broadcast", "meeting",
"moderated", "test", and "H332". These values have implications for other options that are likely
to be appropriate:

•

When "a=type:broadcast" is speciﬁed, "a=recvonly" is probably appropriate for those
connecting.

•

When "a=type:meeting" is speciﬁed, "a=sendrecv" is likely to be appropriate.

•

"a=type:moderated" suggests the use of a ﬂoor control tool and that the media tools be
started so as to mute new sites joining the multimedia conference.

•

Specifying "a=type:H332" indicates that this loosely coupled session is part of an H.332
session as deﬁned in the ITU H.332 speciﬁcation
started using "a=recvonly".

. Media tools should be

[ITU.H332.1998]

•

Specifying "a=type:test" is suggested as a hint that, unless explicitly requested otherwise,
receivers can safely avoid displaying this session description to users.

6.10.  charset (Character Set)

Name:

charset

Value:

charset-value

Usage Level:

session

Charset Dependent:

no

Syntax:

      charset-value = <defined in [RFC2978]>

This speciﬁes the character set to be used to display the session name and information data. By
default, the ISO-10646 character set in UTF-8 encoding is used. If a more compact representation
is required, other character sets may be used. For example, the ISO 8859-1 is speciﬁed with the
following SDP attribute:

      a=charset:ISO-8859-1

MUST

 be one of those registered in the IANA Character Sets registry (

The charset speciﬁed
www.iana.org/assignments/character-sets
string that
ﬁeld of the registry using a case-insensitive comparison. If the identiﬁer is not recognized or not
supported, all strings that are aﬀected by it
SHOULD

), such as ISO-8859-1. The character set identiﬁer is a
 be compared against identiﬁers from the "Name" or "Preferred MIME Name"

 be regarded as octet strings.

http://

MUST

Charset-dependent ﬁelds
deﬁnition of the selected character set. Furthermore, charset-dependent ﬁelds
the bytes 0x00 (Nul), 0x0A (LF), and 0x0d (CR).

 contain only sequences of bytes that are valid according to the

MUST NOT

MUST

 contain

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

6.11.  sdplang (SDP Language)

Name:

sdplang

Value:

sdplang-value

Usage Level:

session, media

Charset Dependent:

no

Syntax:

      sdplang-value = Language-Tag
      ; Language-Tag defined in RFC 5646

Example:

      a=sdplang:fr

Multiple "a=sdplang:" attributes can be provided either at session or media level if the session
description or media use multiple languages.

As a session-level attribute, it speciﬁes the language for the session description (not the language
of the media). As a media-level attribute, it speciﬁes the language for any media-level SDP
information-ﬁeld associated with that media (again not the language of the media), overriding
any "a=sdplang:" attributes speciﬁed at session level.

In general, sending session descriptions consisting of multiple languages is discouraged. Instead,
multiple session descriptions
However, this is not possible with all transport mechanisms, and so multiple "a=sdplang:"
attributes are allowed although

 be sent describing the session, one in each language.

.
NOT RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

The "a=sdplang:" attribute value must be a single language tag
attribute
geographic boundaries, where the language of recipients cannot be assumed, or where the
session is in a diﬀerent language from the locally assumed norm.

. An "a=sdplang:"
 be speciﬁed when a session is distributed with suﬃcient scope to cross

[RFC5646]

SHOULD

6.12.  lang (Language)

Name:

lang

Value:

lang-value

Usage Level:

session, media

Charset Dependent:

no

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8866

Syntax:

SDP

January 2021

      lang-value = Language-Tag
      ; Language-Tag defined in RFC 5646

Example:

      a=lang:de

Multiple "a=lang:" attributes can be provided either at session or media level if the session or
media has capabilities in more than one language, in which case the order of the attributes
indicates the order of preference of the various languages in the session or media, from most
preferred to least preferred.

As a session-level attribute, "a=lang:" speciﬁes a language capability for the session being
described. As a media-level attribute, it speciﬁes a language capability for that media, overriding
any session-level language(s) speciﬁed.

[RFC5646]
 be speciﬁed when a session is of suﬃcient scope to cross geographic boundaries where

The "a=lang:" attribute value must be a single
SHOULD
the language of participants cannot be assumed, or where the session has capabilities in
languages diﬀerent from the locally assumed norm.

 language tag. An "a=lang:" attribute

The "a=lang:" attribute is supposed to be used for setting the initial language(s) used in the
session. Events during the session may inﬂuence which language(s) are used, and the
participants are not strictly bound to only use the declared languages.

Most real-time use cases start with just one language used, while other cases involve a range of
languages, e.g., an interpreted or subtitled session. When more than one "a=lang:" attribute is
speciﬁed, the "a=lang:" attribute itself does not provide any information about multiple
languages being intended to be used during the session, or if the intention is to only select one of
the languages. If needed, a new attribute can be deﬁned and used to indicate such intentions.
Without such semantics, it is assumed that for a negotiated session one of the declared languages
will be selected and used.

6.13.  framerate (Frame Rate)

Name:

framerate

Value:

framerate-value

Usage Level:

media

Charset Dependent:

no

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8866

Syntax:

SDP

January 2021

      framerate-value = non-zero-int-or-real

Example:

      a=framerate:60

This gives the maximum video frame rate in frames/sec. It is intended as a recommendation for
the encoding of video data. Decimal representations of fractional values are allowed. It is deﬁned
only for video media.

6.14.  quality

Name:

quality

Value:

quality-value

Usage Level:

media

Charset Dependent:

no

Syntax:

      quality-value = zero-based-integer

Example:

      a=quality:10

This gives a suggestion for the quality of the encoding as an integer value. The intention of the
quality attribute for video is to specify a non-default trade-oﬀ between frame-rate and still-image
quality. For video, the value is in the range 0 to 10, with the following suggested meaning:

10

the best still-image quality the compression scheme can give.

5

0

the default behavior given no quality suggestion.

the worst still-image quality the codec designer thinks is still usable.

Table 2: Encoding Quality Values

6.15.  fmtp (Format Parameters)

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

Name:

fmtp

Value:

fmtp-value

Usage Level:

media

Charset Dependent:

no

Syntax:

      fmtp-value = fmt SP format-specific-params
      format-specific-params = byte-string
        ; Notes:
        ; - The format parameters are media type parameters and
        ;   need to reflect their syntax.

Example:

      a=fmtp:96 profile-level-id=42e016;max-mbps=108000;max-fs=3600

This attribute allows parameters that are speciﬁc to a particular format to be conveyed in a way
that SDP does not have to understand them. The format must be one of the formats speciﬁed for
the media. Format-speciﬁc parameters, semicolon separated, may be any set of parameters
required to be conveyed by SDP and given unchanged to the media tool that will use this format.
At most one instance of this attribute is allowed for each format.

The "a=fmtp:" attribute may be used to specify parameters for any protocol and format that
deﬁnes use of such parameters.

7.  Security Considerations

SDP is frequently used with the
model [RFC3264]
security considerations of those protocols apply.

oﬀer/answer
 to agree on parameters for unicast sessions. When used in this manner, the

Session Initiation Protocol [RFC3261]

 using the

SHOULD

 be aware that a session description cannot be trusted

SDP is a session description format that describes multimedia sessions. Entities receiving and
acting upon an SDP message
unless it has been obtained by an authenticated and integrity-protected transport protocol from
a known and trusted source. Many diﬀerent transport protocols may be used to distribute
session descriptions, and the nature of the authentication and integrity protection will diﬀer
from transport to transport. For some transports, security features are often not deployed. In
case a session description has not been obtained in a trusted manner, the endpoint
exercise care because, among other attacks, the media sessions received may not be the intended
ones, the destination to where the media is sent may not be the expected one, any of the
parameters of the session may be incorrect, or the media security may be compromised. It is up

SHOULD

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

to the endpoint to make a sensible decision, taking into account the security risks of the
application and the user preferences - the endpoint may decide to ask the user whether or not to
accept the session.

 be able to start other software except that which is speciﬁcally conﬁgured as

On receiving a session description over an unauthenticated transport mechanism or from an
untrusted party, software parsing the session description should take a few precautions. Similar
concerns apply if integrity protection is not in place. Session descriptions contain information
required to start software on the receiver's system. Software that parses a session description
MUST NOT
appropriate software to participate in multimedia sessions. It is normally considered
inappropriate for software parsing a session description to start, on a user's system, software
that is appropriate to participate in multimedia sessions, without the user ﬁrst being informed
that such software will be started and giving the user's consent. Thus, a session description
arriving by session announcement, email, session invitation, or WWW page
the user into an interactive multimedia session unless the user has explicitly pre-authorized such
action. As it is not always simple to tell whether or not a session is interactive, applications that
are unsure should assume sessions are interactive. Software processing URLs contained in
session descriptions should also heed the security considerations identiﬁed in

[RFC3986]

MUST NOT

 deliver

.

In this speciﬁcation, there are no attributes that would allow the recipient of a session
description to be informed to start multimedia tools in a mode where they default to
transmitting. Under some circumstances it might be appropriate to deﬁne such attributes. If this
is done, an application parsing a session description containing such attributes
ignore them or inform the user that joining this session will result in the automatic transmission
of multimedia data. The default behavior for an unknown attribute is to ignore it.

SHOULD

 either

In certain environments, it has become common for intermediary systems to intercept and
analyze session descriptions contained within other signaling protocols. This is done for a range
of purposes, including but not limited to opening holes in ﬁrewalls to allow media streams to
pass, or to mark, prioritize, or block traﬃc selectively. In some cases, such intermediary systems
may modify the session description, for example, to have the contents of the session description
match NAT bindings dynamically created. These behaviors are
session description is conveyed in such a manner that allows the intermediary system to conduct
proper checks to establish the authenticity of the session description, and the authority of its
source to establish such communication sessions. SDP by itself does not include suﬃcient
information to enable these checks: they depend on the encapsulating protocol (e.g., SIP or RTSP).
The use of some procedures and SDP extensions (e.g., Interactive Connectivity Establishment
(ICE)
) may avoid the need for intermediaries to modify
SDP.

NOT RECOMMENDED

 and ICE-SIP-SDP

 unless the

[RFC8445]

[RFC8839]

MUST NOT

 be used to convey keying material (e.g., using the "a=crypto:" attribute

SDP
)
[RFC4568]
unless it can be guaranteed that the channel over which the SDP is delivered is both private and
authenticated.

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  The "application/sdp" Media Type

One media type registration from

[RFC4566]

 has been updated, as deﬁned below.

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

sdp

Required parameters:

None.

Optional parameters:

None.

Encoding considerations:

8-bit text. SDP ﬁles are primarily UTF-8 format text. The "a=charset:"
attribute may be used to signal the presence of other character sets in certain parts of an SDP
ﬁle (see Section 6 of RFC 8866). Arbitrary binary content cannot be directly represented in
SDP.

Security considerations:

See Section 7 of RFC 8866.

Interoperability considerations:

See RFC 8866.

Published speciﬁcation:

See RFC 8866.

Applications which use this media type:

Voice over IP, video teleconferencing, streaming media, instant messaging, among others. See
also Section 3 of RFC 8866.

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:

None

Additional information:

Deprecated alias names for this type:
Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh File Type Code(s):

"sdp"

None.
The extension ".sdp" is commonly used.

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

IETF MMUSIC working group
<mmusic@ietf.org>

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

None

Author/Change controller:
Authors of RFC 8866
IETF MMUSIC working group delegated from the IESG

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

8.2.  Registration of SDP Parameters with IANA

This document speciﬁes IANA parameter registries for six named SDP subﬁelds. Using the
terminology in the SDP speciﬁcation Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF), they are <media>,
<proto>, <attribute-name>, <bwtype>, <nettype>, and <addrtype>.

This document also replaces and updates the deﬁnitions of all those parameters previously
deﬁned by

[RFC4566]

.

IANA has changed all references to RFC 4566 in these registries to instead refer to this document.

The contact name and email address for all parameters registered in this document is:

The IETF MMUSIC working group <mmusic@ietf.org> or its successor as designated by the
IESG.

All of these registries have a common format:

Type

SDP Name

[other ﬁelds]

Reference

Table 3: Common Format for SDP Registries

8.2.1.  Registration Procedure

A speciﬁcation document that deﬁnes values for SDP <media>, <proto>, <attribute-name>,
<bwtype>, <nettype>, and <addrtype> parameters

 include the following information:

MUST

•

Contact name

•

Contact email address

•

Name being deﬁned (as it will appear in SDP)

•

Type of name (<media>, <proto>, <attribute-name>, <bwtype>, <nettype>, or <addrtype>)

•

A description of the purpose of the deﬁned name

•

A stable reference to the document containing this information and the deﬁnition of the
value. (This will typically be an RFC number.)

The subsections below specify what other information (if any) must be speciﬁed for particular
parameters, and what other ﬁelds are to be included in the registry.

8.2.2.  Media Types (<media>)

The set of media types is intended to be small and
circumstances. The same rules should apply for media names as well as for top-level media
types, and where possible the same name should be registered for SDP as for MIME. For media
 be produced for a new
other than existing top-level media types, a Standards Track RFC
top-level media type to be registered, and the registration
 provide good justiﬁcation why
no existing media name is appropriate (the "Standards Action" policy of

 be extended except under rare

SHOULD NOT

[RFC8126]

MUST

MUST

).

This memo registers the media types "audio", "video", "text", "application", and "message".

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

[RFC2327]

; however, their semantics were never fully speciﬁed, and they are not

Note: The media types "control" and "data" were listed as valid in an early version of this
speciﬁcation
widely used. These media types have been removed in this speciﬁcation, although they still
remain valid media type capabilities for a SIP user agent as deﬁned in
types are considered useful in the future, a Standards Track RFC
MUST
their use. Until that is done, applications
 declare
SHOULD NOT
support for them in SIP capabilities declarations (even though they exist in the registry created
by

[RFC3840]
. If these media
 be produced to document

 deﬁned the "image" media type.

 use these types and

). Also note that

SHOULD NOT

[RFC6466]

[RFC3840]

8.2.3.  Transport Protocols (<proto>)

The <proto> subﬁeld describes the transport protocol used. The registration procedure for this
registry is "RFC Required".

This document registers two values:

•

"RTP/AVP" is a reference to
Conferences with Minimal Control [RFC3551]

[RFC3550]

 running over UDP/IP.

 used under the

RTP Proﬁle for Audio and Video

•

"udp" indicates direct use of UDP.

New transport protocols
MAY
reference an RFC describing the protocol. Such an RFC
although it is preferable that it be Standards Track. The RFC deﬁning a new protocol
the rules by which the <fmt> (see below) namespace is managed.

 be deﬁned, and

 be registered with IANA. Registrations

 be Experimental or Informational,

MUST

MAY

MUST

 deﬁne

MUST

<proto> names starting with "RTP/"
proﬁles of RTP. For example, a proﬁle whose short name is "XYZ" would be denoted by a <proto>
subﬁeld of "RTP/XYZ".

 only be used for deﬁning transport protocols that are

MUST

Each transport protocol, deﬁned by the <proto> subﬁeld, has an associated <fmt> namespace that
describes the media formats that may be conveyed by that protocol. Formats cover all the
possible encodings that could be transported in a multimedia session.

RTP payload formats under the "RTP/AVP" and other "RTP/*" proﬁles
 use the payload type
number as their <fmt> value. If the payload type number is dynamically assigned by this session
description, an additional "a=rtpmap:" attribute
and parameters as deﬁned by the media type registration for the payload format. It is
RECOMMENDED
transport protocols specify the same rules for the <fmt> namespace.

 that other RTP proﬁles that are registered (in combination with RTP) as SDP

 be included to specify the format name

MUST

MUST

For the "udp" protocol, the allowed <fmt> values are media subtypes from the IANA Media Types
registry. The media type and subtype combination <media>/<fmt> speciﬁes the format of the
body of UDP packets. Use of an existing media subtype for the format is encouraged. If no
suitable media subtype exists, it is
process
format.

 by production of, or reference to, a Standards Track RFC that deﬁnes the

 that a new one be registered through the IETF

RECOMMENDED

[RFC6838]

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

For other protocols, formats
speciﬁcation.

MAY

 be registered according to the rules of the associated <proto>

Registrations of new formats

MUST

 specify which transport protocols they apply to.

8.2.4.  Attribute Names (<attribute-name>)

Attribute-ﬁeld names (<attribute-name>)
avoid any issues due to conﬂicting attribute deﬁnitions under the same name. (While unknown
attributes in SDP are simply ignored, conﬂicting ones that fragment the protocol are a serious
problem.)

 be registered with IANA and documented to

MUST

The format of the <attribute-name> registry is:

Type

SDP Name

Usage Level Mux Category

Reference

Table 4: Format of the <attribute-name> Registry

For example, the attribute "a=lang:", which is deﬁned for both session and media level, will be
listed in the new registry as follows:

Type

SDP Name

Usage Level

Mux Category

Reference

attribute

lang

session, media

TRANSPORT

[RFC8866]

[RFC8859]

Table 5: <attribute-name> Registry Example

This one <attribute-name> registry combines all of the previous usage-level-speciﬁc "att-ﬁeld"
registries, including updates made by
"attribute-name (formerly "att-ﬁeld")" registry. IANA has completed the necessary reformatting.

, and renames the "att-ﬁeld" registry to the

[RFC8859]

Section 6 of this document replaces the initial set of attribute deﬁnitions made by
IANA has updated the registry accordingly.

[RFC4566]

.

Documents can deﬁne new attributes and can also extend the deﬁnitions of previously deﬁned
attributes.

8.2.4.1.  New Attributes

New attribute registrations are accepted according to the "Speciﬁcation Required" policy of
[RFC8126]

, provided that the speciﬁcation includes the following information:

•

Contact name

•

Contact email address

•

Attribute name: the name of the attribute that will appear in SDP. This
deﬁnition of <attribute-name>.

MUST

 conform to the

•

Attribute syntax: for a value attribute (see Section 5.13), an ABNF deﬁnition of the attribute
value <attribute-value> syntax (see Section 9)
rule form per

 be provided. The syntax

Section 2.2 of [RFC5234]

MUST
[RFC7405]

 deﬁne the allowable

SHALL

. This

MUST

 and

 follow the

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

values that the attribute might take. It
of future values. For a property attribute, the ABNF deﬁnition is omitted as the property
attribute takes no values.

 also deﬁne an extension method for the addition

MAY

•

Attribute semantics: for a value attribute, a semantic description of the values that the
attribute might take
Purpose below.

 be provided. The usage of a property attribute is described under

MUST

•

Attribute value: the name of an ABNF syntax rule deﬁning the syntax of the value. Absence
of a rule name indicates that the attribute takes no values. Enclosing the rule name in "[" and
"]" indicates that a value is optional.

•

Usage level: the usage level(s) of the attribute. This
session, media, source, dcsa, and dcsa(subprotocol). For a deﬁnition of source-level
attributes, see

. For a deﬁnition of dcsa attributes see

[RFC8864]

[RFC5576]

 be one or more of the following:

MUST

.

•

Charset dependent: this
subject to the "a=charset:" attribute.

MUST

 be "Yes" or "No" depending on whether the attribute value is

•

Purpose: an explanation of the purpose and usage of the attribute.

•

O/A procedures: oﬀer/answer procedures as explained in

[RFC3264]

.

•

Mux Category: this
RECOMMENDED, IDENTICAL, SUM, TRANSPORT, INHERIT, IDENTICAL-PER-PT, SPECIAL, or
TBD as deﬁned by

 indicate one of the following categories: NORMAL, NOT

[RFC8859]

MUST

.

•

Reference: a reference to the speciﬁcation deﬁning the attribute.

The above is the minimum that IANA will accept. Attributes that are expected to see widespread
use and interoperability
attribute more precisely.

 be documented with a Standards Track RFC that speciﬁes the

SHOULD

Submitters of registrations should ensure that the speciﬁcation is in the spirit of SDP attributes,
most notably that the attribute is platform independent in the sense that it makes no implicit
assumptions about operating systems and does not name speciﬁc pieces of software in a manner
that might inhibit interoperability.

Submitters of registrations should also carefully choose the attribute usage level. They should not
choose only "session" when the attribute can have diﬀerent values when media is disaggregated,
i.e., when each "m=" section has its own IP address on a diﬀerent endpoint. In that case, the
attribute type chosen should be "session, media" or "media" (depending on desired semantics).
The default rule is that for all new SDP attributes that can occur both in session and media level,
the media level overrides the session level. When this is not the case for a new SDP attribute, it
MUST

 be explicitly stated.

IANA has registered the initial set of attribute names (<attribute-name> values) with deﬁnitions
as in Section 6 of this memo (these deﬁnitions replace those in

[RFC4566]

).

8.2.4.2.  Updates to Existing Attributes

Updated attribute registrations are accepted according to the "Speciﬁcation Required" policy of
[RFC8126]
.

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

The Designated Expert reviewing the update is requested to evaluate whether the update is
compatible with the prior intent and use of the attribute, and whether the new document is of
suﬃcient maturity and authority in relation to the prior document.

The speciﬁcation updating the attribute (for example, by adding a new value)
registration information items from Section 8.2.4.1 according to the following constraints:

MUST

 update

•

Contact name: a name for an entity responsible for the update

MUST

 be provided.

•

Contact email address: an email address for an entity responsible for the update
provided.

MUST

 be

•

Attribute name:
attribute.

MUST

 be provided and

MUST NOT

 be changed. Otherwise it is a new

•

Attribute syntax: the existing rule syntax with the syntax extensions
there is a change to the syntax. A revision to an existing attribute usage
syntax of an attribute, but

 be backward compatible.

MUST

MUST

 be provided if
 extend the

MAY

•

Attribute semantics: a semantic description of new additional attribute values or a semantic
extension of existing values. Existing attribute values semantics
 only be extended in a
backward compatible manner.

MUST

•

Usage level: updates

MAY

 only add additional levels.

•

Charset dependent:

MUST NOT

 be changed.

•

Purpose:

MAY

 be extended according to the updated usage.

•

O/A procedures:
MAY
new usage level only.

 be updated in a backward compatible manner and/or it applies to a

•

Mux Category: no change unless from "TBD" to another value (see
change if media level is being added to the deﬁnition of an attribute that previously did not
include it.

[RFC8859] MAY

 also

. It

•

Reference: a new (additional or replacement) reference

MUST

 be provided.

Items

SHOULD

 be omitted if there is no impact to them as a result of the attribute update.

8.2.5.  Bandwidth Speciﬁers (<bwtype>)

A proliferation of bandwidth speciﬁers is strongly discouraged.

New bandwidth speciﬁers (<bwtype> subﬁeld values)
submission
speciﬁer precisely, and indicating when it should be used, and why the existing registered
bandwidth speciﬁers do not suﬃce.

 reference a Standards Track RFC specifying the semantics of the bandwidth

 be registered with IANA. The

MUST

MUST

The RFC

MUST

 specify the Mux Category for this value as deﬁned by

[RFC8859]

.

The format of the <bwtype> registry is:

Type

SDP Name Mux Category

Reference

Table 6: Format of the <bwtype> Registry

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

IANA has updated the <bwtype> registry entries for the bandwidth speciﬁers "CT" and "AS" with
the deﬁnitions in Section 5.8 of this memo (these deﬁnitions replace those in

[RFC4566]

).

8.2.6.  Network Types (<nettype>)

Network type "IN", representing the Internet, is deﬁned in Section 5.2 and Section 5.7 of this
memo (this deﬁnition replaces that in

[RFC4566]

).

MUST

[RFC8126]

 be registered with IANA. The registration is subject to the "RFC Required"
. Although non-Internet environments are not normally the preserve of IANA,

To enable SDP to reference a new non-Internet environment, a new network type (<nettype>
subﬁeld value)
policy of
there may be circumstances when an Internet application needs to interoperate with a non-
Internet application, such as when gatewaying an Internet telephone call into the Public
Switched Telephone Network (PSTN). The number of network types should be small and should
be rarely extended. A new network type registration
 reference an RFC that gives details of
the network type and the address type(s) that may be used with it.

MUST

The format of the <nettype> registry is:

Type

SDP Name

Usable addrtype Values

Reference

Table 7: Format of the <nettype> Registry

IANA has updated the <nettype> registry to this new format. The following is the updated content
of the registry:

Type

SDP Name

Usable addrtype Values

Reference

nettype

IN

IP4, IP6

nettype

TN

RFC2543

[RFC8866]

[RFC2848]

nettype

ATM

NSAP, GWID, E164

[RFC3108]

nettype

PSTN

E164

[RFC7195]

Table 8: Content of the <nettype> registry

Note that both
[RFC7195]
networks.

[RFC7195]

 and

[RFC3108]

 registered "E164" as an address type, although

 mentions that the "E164" address type has a diﬀerent context for ATM and PSTN

8.2.7.  Address Types (<addrtype>)

New address types (<addrtype>)
"RFC Required" policy of
giving details of the syntax of the address type. Address types are not expected to be registered
frequently.

 be registered with IANA. The registration is subject to the

. A new address type registration

 reference an RFC,

[RFC8126]

MUST

MUST

Section 5.7 of this document gives new deﬁnitions of address types "IP4" and "IP6".

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

8.3.  Encryption Key Access Methods (OBSOLETE)

The IANA previously maintained a table of SDP encryption key access method ("enckey") names.
This table is obsolete, since the "k=" line is not extensible. New registrations
accepted.

MUST NOT

 be

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

9.  SDP Grammar

This section provides an Augmented BNF grammar for SDP. ABNF is deﬁned in
[RFC7405]
.

[RFC5234]

 and

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

; SDP Syntax
session-description = version-field
                      origin-field
                      session-name-field
                      [information-field]
                      [uri-field]
                      *email-field
                      *phone-field
                      [connection-field]
                      *bandwidth-field
                      1*time-description
                      [key-field]
                      *attribute-field
                      *media-description

version-field =       %s"v" "=" 1*DIGIT CRLF
                          ;this memo describes version 0

origin-field =       %s"o" "=" username SP sess-id SP sess-version SP
                         nettype SP addrtype SP unicast-address CRLF

session-name-field =  %s"s" "=" text CRLF

information-field =   %s"i" "=" text CRLF

uri-field =           %s"u" "=" uri CRLF

email-field =         %s"e" "=" email-address CRLF

phone-field =         %s"p" "=" phone-number CRLF

connection-field =    %s"c" "=" nettype SP addrtype SP
                          connection-address CRLF
                          ;a connection field must be present
                          ;in every media description or at the
                          ;session level

bandwidth-field =     %s"b" "=" bwtype ":" bandwidth CRLF

time-description =    time-field
                          [repeat-description]

repeat-description =  1*repeat-field
                          [zone-field]

time-field =          %s"t" "=" start-time SP stop-time CRLF

repeat-field =        %s"r" "=" repeat-interval SP typed-time
                          1*(SP typed-time) CRLF

zone-field =          %s"z" "=" time SP ["-"] typed-time
                          *(SP time SP ["-"] typed-time) CRLF

key-field =           %s"k" "=" key-type CRLF

attribute-field =     %s"a" "=" attribute CRLF

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

media-description =   media-field
                      [information-field]
                      *connection-field
                      *bandwidth-field
                      [key-field]
                      *attribute-field

media-field =         %s"m" "=" media SP port ["/" integer]
                          SP proto 1*(SP fmt) CRLF

; sub-rules of 'o='
username =            non-ws-string
                      ;pretty wide definition, but doesn't
                      ;include space

sess-id =             1*DIGIT
                      ;should be unique for this username/host

sess-version =        1*DIGIT

nettype =             token
                      ;typically "IN"

addrtype =            token
                      ;typically "IP4" or "IP6"

; sub-rules of 'u='
uri =                 URI-reference
                      ; see RFC 3986

; sub-rules of 'e=', see RFC 5322 for definitions
email-address        = address-and-comment / dispname-and-address
                       / addr-spec
address-and-comment  = addr-spec 1*SP "(" 1*email-safe ")"
dispname-and-address = 1*email-safe 1*SP "<" addr-spec ">"

; sub-rules of 'p='
phone-number =        phone *SP "(" 1*email-safe ")" /
                      1*email-safe "<" phone ">" /
                      phone

phone =               ["+"] DIGIT 1*(SP / "-" / DIGIT)

; sub-rules of 'c='
connection-address =  multicast-address / unicast-address

; sub-rules of 'b='
bwtype =              token

bandwidth =           1*DIGIT

; sub-rules of 't='
start-time =          time / "0"

stop-time =           time / "0"

time =                POS-DIGIT 9*DIGIT
                      ; Decimal representation of time in

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

                      ; seconds since January 1, 1900 UTC.
                      ; The representation is an unbounded
                      ; length field containing at least
                      ; 10 digits. Unlike some representations
                      ; used elsewhere, time in SDP does not
                      ; wrap in the year 2036.

; sub-rules of 'r=' and 'z='
repeat-interval =     POS-DIGIT *DIGIT [fixed-len-time-unit]

typed-time =          1*DIGIT [fixed-len-time-unit]

fixed-len-time-unit = %s"d" / %s"h" / %s"m" / %s"s"
; NOTE: These units are case-sensitive.

; sub-rules of 'k='
key-type =            %s"prompt" /
                      %s"clear:" text /
                      %s"base64:" base64 /
                      %s"uri:" uri
                      ; NOTE: These names are case-sensitive.

base64      =         *base64-unit [base64-pad]
base64-unit =         4base64-char
base64-pad  =         2base64-char "==" / 3base64-char "="
base64-char =         ALPHA / DIGIT / "+" / "/"

; sub-rules of 'a='
attribute =           (attribute-name ":" attribute-value) /
                      attribute-name

attribute-name =      token

attribute-value =     byte-string

att-field =           attribute-name ; for backward compatibility

; sub-rules of 'm='
media =               token
                      ;typically "audio", "video", "text", "image"
                      ;or "application"

fmt =                 token
                      ;typically an RTP payload type for audio
                      ;and video media

proto  =              token *("/" token)
                      ;typically "RTP/AVP", "RTP/SAVP", "udp",
                      ;or "RTP/SAVPF"

port =                1*DIGIT

; generic sub-rules: addressing
unicast-address =     IP4-address / IP6-address / FQDN / extn-addr

multicast-address =   IP4-multicast / IP6-multicast / FQDN
                      / extn-addr

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

IP4-multicast =       m1 3( "." decimal-uchar )
                      "/" ttl [ "/" numaddr ]
                      ; IP4 multicast addresses may be in the
                      ; range 224.0.0.0 to 239.255.255.255

m1 =                  ("22" ("4"/"5"/"6"/"7"/"8"/"9")) /
                      ("23" DIGIT )

IP6-multicast =       IP6-address [ "/" numaddr ]
                      ; IP6 address starting with FF

numaddr =             integer

ttl =                 (POS-DIGIT *2DIGIT) / "0"

FQDN =                4*(alpha-numeric / "-" / ".")
                      ; fully qualified domain name as specified
                      ; in RFC 1035 (and updates)

IP4-address =         b1 3("." decimal-uchar)

b1 =                  decimal-uchar
                      ; less than "224"

IP6-address =                                      6( h16 ":" ) ls32
                      /                       "::" 5( h16 ":" ) ls32
                      / [               h16 ] "::" 4( h16 ":" ) ls32
                      / [ *1( h16 ":" ) h16 ] "::" 3( h16 ":" ) ls32
                      / [ *2( h16 ":" ) h16 ] "::" 2( h16 ":" ) ls32
                      / [ *3( h16 ":" ) h16 ] "::"    h16 ":"   ls32
                      / [ *4( h16 ":" ) h16 ] "::"              ls32
                      / [ *5( h16 ":" ) h16 ] "::"              h16
                      / [ *6( h16 ":" ) h16 ] "::"

h16 =                 1*4HEXDIG

ls32 =                ( h16 ":" h16 ) / IP4-address

; Generic for other address families
extn-addr =      non-ws-string

; generic sub-rules: datatypes
text =                byte-string
                      ;default is to interpret this as UTF8 text.
                      ;ISO 8859-1 requires "a=charset:ISO-8859-1"
                      ;session-level attribute to be used

byte-string =         1*(%x01-09/%x0B-0C/%x0E-FF)
                      ;any byte except NUL, CR, or LF

non-ws-string =       1*(VCHAR/%x80-FF)
                      ;string of visible characters

token-char =          ALPHA / DIGIT
                              / "!" / "#" / "$" / "%" / "&"
                              / "'" ; (single quote)
                              / "*" / "+" / "-" / "." / "^" / "_"
                              / "`" ; (Grave accent)

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

                              / "{" / "|" / "}" / "~"

token =               1*(token-char)

email-safe =          %x01-09/%x0B-0C/%x0E-27/%x2A-3B/%x3D/%x3F-FF
                      ;any byte except NUL, CR, LF, or the quoting
                      ;characters ()<>

integer =             POS-DIGIT *DIGIT

zero-based-integer = "0" / integer

non-zero-int-or-real = integer / non-zero-real

non-zero-real = zero-based-integer "." *DIGIT POS-DIGIT

; generic sub-rules: primitives
alpha-numeric =       ALPHA / DIGIT

POS-DIGIT =           %x31-39 ; 1 - 9

decimal-uchar =       DIGIT
                      / POS-DIGIT DIGIT
                      / ("1" 2(DIGIT))
                      / ("2" ("0"/"1"/"2"/"3"/"4") DIGIT)
                      / ("2" "5" ("0"/"1"/"2"/"3"/"4"/"5"))

; external references:
ALPHA =               <ALPHA definition from RFC 5234>
DIGIT =               <DIGIT definition from RFC 5234>
CRLF =                <CRLF definition from RFC 5234>
HEXDIG =              <HEXDIG definition from RFC 5234>
SP =                  <SP definition from RFC 5234>
VCHAR =               <VCHAR definition from RFC 5234>
URI-reference =       <URI-reference definition from RFC 3986>
addr-spec =           <addr-spec definition from RFC 5322>

10.  Summary of Changes from RFC 4566

•

Generally clariﬁed and reﬁned terminology. Aligned terms used in text with the ABNF. The
terms <attribute>, <att-ﬁeld>, and "att-ﬁeld" are now <attribute-name>. The terms <value>
and <att-value> are now <attribute-value>. The term "media" is now <media>.

•

Identiﬁed now-obsolete items: "a=cat:" (Section 6.1), "a=keywds:" (Section 6.2), and "k="
(Section 5.12).

•

Updated normative and informative references, and added references to additional relevant
related RFCs.

•

Reformatted the SDP Attributes section (Section 6) for readability. The syntax of attribute
values is now given in ABNF.

•

Made mandatory the sending of RTCP with inactive media streams (Section 6.7.4).

•

Removed the section "Private Sessions". That section dated back to a time when the primary
use of SDP was with SAP (Session Announcement Protocol), which has fallen out of use. Now

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

the vast majority of uses of SDP is for establishment of private sessions. The considerations
for that are covered in Section 7.

•

Expanded and clariﬁed the speciﬁcation of the "a=lang:" (Section 6.12) and "a=sdplang:"
(Section 6.11) attributes.

•

Removed some references to SAP because it is no longer in widespread use.

•

Changed the way <fmt> values for UDP transport are registered (Section 8.2.3).

•

Changed the mechanism and documentation required for registering new attributes (Section
8.2.4.1).

•

Tightened up IANA registration procedures for extensions. Removed phone number and
long-form name (Section 8.2).

•

Expanded the IANA <nettype> registry to identify valid <addrtype> subﬁelds (Section 8.2.6).

•

Reorganized the several IANA "att-ﬁeld" registries into a single <attribute-name> registry
(Section 8.2.4).

•

Revised ABNF syntax (Section 9) for clarity and for alignment with text. Backward
compatibility is maintained with a few exceptions. Of particular note:

◦

◦

◦

◦

Revised the syntax of time descriptions ("t=", "r=", "z=") to remove ambiguities. Clariﬁed
that "z=" only modiﬁes the immediately preceding "r=" lines. Made "z=" without a
preceding "r=" a syntax error (Section 5.11). (This is incompatible with certain aberrant
usage.)

Updated the "IP6-address" and "IP6-multicast" rules, consistent with the syntax in
[RFC3986]
unused as a result of this change.

, mirroring a bug ﬁx made to

[RFC3261]

[RFC5954]

 by

. Removed rules that were

The "att-ﬁeld" rule has been renamed "attribute-name" because elsewhere "*-ﬁeld" always
refers to a complete line. However, the rulename "att-ﬁeld" remains deﬁned as a synonym
for backward compatibility with references from other RFCs.

The "att-value" rule has been renamed "attribute-value".

•

Revised normative statements that were redundant with ABNF syntax, making the text non-
normative.

•

Revised IPv4 unicast and multicast addresses in the example SDP descriptions per
and

[RFC5771]

.

[RFC5735]

•

Changed some examples to use IPv6 addresses, and added additional examples using IPv6.

•

Incorporated case-insensitivity rules from

[RFC4855]

.

•

Revised sections that incorrectly referenced NTP (Section 5.2, Section 5.9, Section 5.10, and
Section 5.11).

•

Clariﬁed the explanation of the impact and use of the "a=charset:" attribute (Section 6.10).

•

Revised the description of the "a=type:" attribute to remove implication that it sometimes
changes the default media direction to something other than "a=sendrecv" (Section 6.9).

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[E164]

International Telecommunication Union "E.164 : The international public
telecommunication numbering plan" ITU Recommendation E.164
,
2010,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-E.164-201011-I/en>

,

.

, November

[ISO.8859-1.1998]

International Organization for Standardization "Information technology - 8-
bit single byte coded graphic - character sets - Part 1: Latin alphabet No. 1, JTC1/
SC2" ISO/IEC Standard 8859-1

, 1998.

,

,

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2848]

[RFC2978]

[RFC3108]

[RFC3629]

[RFC3986]

[RFC4566]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

,

.

,
Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation" STD 13
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Petrack, S. and L. Conroy "The PINT Service Protocol: Extensions to SIP and SDP
, June
,
for IP Access to Telephone Call Services" RFC 2848 DOI 10.17487/RFC2848
2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2848>

,

.

,

Freed, N. and J. Postel "IANA Charset Registration Procedures" BCP 19 RFC
,
2978 DOI 10.17487/RFC2978
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2978>

, October 2000,

.

,

,

,

Kumar, R. and M. Mostafa "Conventions for the use of the Session Description
,
Protocol (SDP) for ATM Bearer Connections" RFC 3108 DOI 10.17487/RFC3108
May 2001,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3108>

,

,

.

,

,
Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

.

,

,

Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

, January 2005,

,

,

,

.

,

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

[RFC5234]

[RFC5576]

[RFC5646]

[RFC5890]

[RFC5952]

[RFC7195]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8859]

[RFC8864]

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

,
Lennox, J., Ott, J., and T. Schierl "Source-Speciﬁc Media Attributes in the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 5576 DOI 10.17487/RFC5576
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5576>

, June 2009,

,

,

.

Phillips, A., Ed. and M. Davis, Ed. "Tags for Identifying Languages" BCP 47 RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
5646 DOI 10.17487/RFC5646
rfc5646>

, September 2009,

.

,

,

,

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Deﬁnitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

,

,

.

,

Kawamura, S. and M. Kawashima "A Recommendation for IPv6 Address Text
,
Representation" RFC 5952 DOI 10.17487/RFC5952
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5952>

, August 2010,

<https://

,

.

,

,
Garcia-Martin, M. and S. Veikkolainen "Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Extension for Setting Audio and Video Media Streams over Circuit-Switched
Bearers in the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)" RFC 7195 DOI
10.17487/RFC7195

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7195>

, May 2014,

,

.

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Nandakumar, S. "A Framework for Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
,
Attributes When Multiplexing" RFC 8859 DOI 10.17487/RFC8859
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8859>

, January 2021,

Drage, K., Makaraju, M., Ejzak, R., Marcon, J., and R. Even, Ed. "Negotiation Data
Channels Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8864 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8864

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8864>

, January 2021,

,
.

,

,

11.2.  Informative References

[ITU.H332.1998]

International Telecommunication Union "H.332 : H.323 extended for loosely

,

coupled conferences" ITU Recommendation H.332
,
www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-H.332-199809-I/en>

.

, September 1998,

<https://

[RFC2045]

Freed, N. and N. Borenstein "Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
Part One: Format of Internet Message Bodies" RFC 2045 DOI 10.17487/RFC2045
November 1996,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2045>

,

,

.

,

,

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

[RFC2327]

[RFC2974]

[RFC3261]

[RFC3264]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3551]

[RFC3556]

[RFC3605]

[RFC3711]

[RFC3840]

[RFC3890]

[RFC4568]

[RFC4855]

Handley, M. and V. Jacobson "SDP: Session Description Protocol" RFC 2327 DOI
10.17487/RFC2327

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2327>

, April 1998,

,

,

,

.

Handley, M., Perkins, C., and E. Whelan "Session Announcement Protocol" RFC
,
2974 DOI 10.17487/RFC2974
,
rfc2974>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2000,

.

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R.,
Handley, M., and E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
10.17487/RFC3261

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
, June 2002,

,
.

,

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

,

,

,

.

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
,
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

,

.

,

,

Schulzrinne, H. and S. Casner "RTP Proﬁle for Audio and Video Conferences
with Minimal Control" STD 65 RFC 3551 DOI 10.17487/RFC3551
, July 2003,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3551>
.

,
,

,

,

Casner, S. "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Bandwidth Modiﬁers for RTP
Control Protocol (RTCP) Bandwidth" RFC 3556 DOI 10.17487/RFC3556
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3556>

,

,

.

, July 2003,

,

Huitema, C. "Real Time Control Protocol (RTCP) attribute in Session Description
Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3605 DOI 10.17487/RFC3605
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3605>

, October 2003,

<https://

,

.

Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K. Norrman "The Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, March

,
.

,

,

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., and P. Kyzivat "Indicating User Agent Capabilities
, August
,
in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3840 DOI 10.17487/RFC3840
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3840>

,

.

,

,

Westerlund, M. "A Transport Independent Bandwidth Modiﬁer for the Session
, September 2004,
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3890 DOI 10.17487/RFC3890
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3890>

.

,

,

Andreasen, F., Baugher, M., and D. Wing "Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Security Descriptions for Media Streams" RFC 4568 DOI 10.17487/RFC4568
2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4568>

,

,

.

,

, July

Casner, S. "Media Type Registration of RTP Payload Formats" RFC 4855 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4855>
10.17487/RFC4855

, February 2007,

,

,

,

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

[RFC5124]

[RFC5322]

[RFC5735]

[RFC5771]

[RFC5888]

[RFC5954]

[RFC6466]

[RFC6838]

[RFC7230]

[RFC7405]

[RFC7656]

[RFC7826]

[RFC8445]

Ott, J. and E. Carrara "Extended Secure RTP Proﬁle for Real-time Transport
Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/SAVPF)" RFC 5124 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5124

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5124>

, February 2008,

,

,

,

.

Resnick, P., Ed. "Internet Message Format" RFC 5322 DOI 10.17487/RFC5322
October 2008,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5322>

,

,

.

,

Cotton, M. and L. Vegoda "Special Use IPv4 Addresses" RFC 5735 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5735

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5735>
.

, January 2010,

,

,
Cotton, M., Vegoda, L., and D. Meyer "IANA Guidelines for IPv4 Multicast
,
Address Assignments" BCP 51 RFC 5771 DOI 10.17487/RFC5771
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5771>

,

,

, March 2010,

,
Camarillo, G. and H. Schulzrinne "The Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
Grouping Framework" RFC 5888 DOI 10.17487/RFC5888
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5888>

, June 2010,

,

<https://

Gurbani, V., Ed., Carpenter, B., Ed., and B. Tate, Ed. "Essential Correction for IPv6
,
ABNF and URI Comparison in RFC 3261" RFC 5954 DOI 10.17487/RFC5954
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5954>

,
,

.

,

,

Salgueiro, G. "IANA Registration of the 'image' Media Type for the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 6466 DOI 10.17487/RFC6466
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6466>

,

,

.

, December 2011,

Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen "Media Type Speciﬁcations and Registration
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, January 2013,

<https://

,

.

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
, June 2014,
,
Message Syntax and Routing" RFC 7230 DOI 10.17487/RFC7230
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7230>

.

,

,

Kyzivat, P. "Case-Sensitive String Support in ABNF" RFC 7405 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7405

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7405>

, December 2014,

.

,

,

,

Lennox, J., Gross, K., Nandakumar, S., Salgueiro, G., and B. Burman, Ed. "A
Taxonomy of Semantics and Mechanisms for Real-Time Transport Protocol
(RTP) Sources" RFC 7656 DOI 10.17487/RFC7656
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7656>

, November 2015,

.

,

,

,

,
Schulzrinne, H., Rao, A., Lanphier, R., Westerlund, M., and M. Stiemerling, Ed.
,
"Real-Time Streaming Protocol Version 2.0" RFC 7826 DOI 10.17487/RFC7826
December 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7826>

.

,

,

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

[RFC8839]

[RFC8843]

Petit-Huguenin, M., Nandakumar, S., Holmberg, C., Keränen, A., and R. Shpount
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer Procedures for Interactive
Connectivity Establishment (ICE)" RFC 8839 DOI 10.17487/RFC8839
, January
,
2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8839>

,

.

,

Holmberg, C., Alvestrand, H., and C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8843 DOI 10.17487/RFC8843
January 2021,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8843>
.

,
,

,

Acknowledgements

Many people in the IETF Multiparty Multimedia Session Control (MMUSIC) working group have
made comments and suggestions contributing to this document.

In particular, we would like to thank the following people who contributed to the creation of this
Adam Roach Allison Mankin Bernie Hoeneisen
,
document or one of its predecessor documents:
Bill Fenner Carsten Bormann Eve Schooler Flemming Andreasen Gonzalo Camarillo Jörg Ott
,
,
John Elwell Jon Peterson Jonathan Lennox Jonathan Rosenberg Keith Drage Peter Parnes Rob
,
Lanphier Ross Finlayson Sean Olson Spencer Dawkins Steve Casner Steve Hanna Van
,
Jacobson
.

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Ali Begen
Networked Media
Turkey
Email:

 ali.begen@networked.media

Paul Kyzivat
United States of America
Email:

 pkyzivat@alum.mit.edu

Colin Perkins
University of Glasgow
School of Computing Science
Glasgow
G12 8QQ
United Kingdom
Email:

 csp@csperkins.org

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 8866

SDP

January 2021

Mark Handley
University College London
Department of Computer Science
London
WC1E 6BT
United Kingdom
Email:

 M.Handley@cs.ucl.ac.uk

Begen, et al.

Standards Track

Page 57

