Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8974
7252, 8323
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
K. Hartke
Ericsson

M. Richardson
Sandelman

RFC 8974
Extended Tokens and Stateless Clients
in the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)

Abstract

This document provides considerations for alleviating Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)
clients and intermediaries of keeping per-request state. To facilitate this, this document
additionally introduces a new, optional CoAP protocol extension for extended token lengths.

This document updates RFCs 7252 and 8323 with an extended deﬁnition of the "TKL" ﬁeld in the
CoAP message header.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8974

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

2.  Extended Tokens

2.1.  Extended Token Length (TKL) Field

2.2.  Discovering Support

2.2.1.  Extended-Token-Length Capability Option

2.2.2.  Trial and Error

2.3.  Intermediaries

3.  Stateless Clients

3.1.  Serializing Client State

3.2.  Using Extended Tokens

3.3.  Transmitting Messages

4.  Stateless Intermediaries

4.1.  Observing Resources

4.2.  Block-Wise Transfers

4.3.  Gateway Timeouts

4.4.  Extended Tokens

5.  Security Considerations

5.1.  Extended Tokens

5.2.  Stateless Clients and Intermediaries

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  CoAP Signaling Option Number

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

Appendix A.  Updated Message Formats

A.1.  CoAP over UDP

A.2.  CoAP over TCP/TLS

A.3.  CoAP over WebSockets

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)
for
constrained environments [RFC7228]
make requests to servers (or intermediaries in the server role), which satisfy the requests by
returning responses.

 is a RESTful application-layer protocol
. In CoAP, clients (or intermediaries in the client role)

[RFC7252]

While a request is ongoing, a client typically needs to keep some state that it requires for
processing the response when that arrives. Identiﬁcation of this state is done in CoAP by means
of a token: an opaque sequence of bytes that is chosen by the client and included in the CoAP
request and that is returned by the server verbatim in any resulting CoAP response (Figure 1).

+-----------------+     request with     +------------+
|        |        |   state identifier   |            |
|        |        |       as token       |            |
|    .-<-+->------|--------------------->|------.     |
|   _|_           |                      |      |     |
|  /   \ stored   |                      |      |     |
|  \___/ state    |                      |      |     |
|    |            |                      |      |     |
|    '->-+-<------|<---------------------|------'     |
|        |        |     response with    |            |
|        v        |   token echoed back  |            |
+-----------------+                      +------------+
      Client                                 Server

Figure 1: Token as an Identiﬁer for Request State

In some scenarios, it can be beneﬁcial to reduce the amount of state that is stored at the client at
the cost of increased message sizes. A client can opt into this by serializing (parts of) its state into
the token itself and then recovering this state from the token in the response (Figure 2).

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

+-----------------+     request with     +------------+
|        |        |   serialized state   |            |
|        |        |       as token       |            |
|        +--------|=====================>|------.     |
|                 |                      |      |     |
|    look ma,     |                      |      |     |
|    no state!    |                      |      |     |
|                 |                      |      |     |
|        +--------|<=====================|------'     |
|        |        |     response with    |            |
|        v        |   token echoed back  |            |
+-----------------+                      +------------+
      Client                                 Server

Figure 2: Token as Serialization of Request State

Section 3 of this document provides considerations for clients becoming "stateless" in this way.
(The term "stateless" is in quotes here, because it's a bit oversimpliﬁed. Such clients still need to
maintain per-server state and other kinds of state. So it would be more accurate to just say that
the clients are avoiding per-request state.)

Section 4 of this document extends the considerations for clients to intermediaries, which may
want to avoid keeping state for not only the requests they send to servers but also the requests
they receive from clients.

CoAP over reliable transports [RFC8323]

The serialization of state into tokens is limited by the fact that both
CoAP over UDP [RFC7252]
 restrict the maximum token length to 8 bytes. To
and
overcome this limitation, Section 2 of this document introduces a CoAP protocol extension for
extended token lengths.

While the use case (avoiding per-request state) and the mechanism (extended token lengths)
presented in this document are closely related, each can be used independently of the other.
Some implementations may be able to ﬁt their state in just 8 bytes; some implementations may
have other use cases for extended token lengths.

1.1.  Terminology

In this document, the term "stateless" refers to an implementation strategy for a client (or
intermediary in the client role) that does not require it to keep state for the individual requests it
sends to a server (or intermediary in the server role). The client still needs to keep state for each
server it communicates with (e.g., for token generation, message retransmission, and congestion
control).

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

2.  Extended Tokens

This document updates the message formats deﬁned for
over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets [RFC8323]

CoAP over UDP [RFC7252]
 with a new deﬁnition of the "TKL" ﬁeld.

 and

CoAP

2.1.  Extended Token Length (TKL) Field

The deﬁnition of the "TKL" ﬁeld is updated as follows:

Token Length (TKL):

4-bit unsigned integer. A value between 0 and 12, inclusive, indicates the

length of the variable-length "Token" ﬁeld in bytes. The other three values are reserved for
special constructs:

13:

14:

15:

An 8-bit unsigned integer directly precedes the "Token" ﬁeld and indicates the length of
the "Token" ﬁeld minus 13.

A 16-bit unsigned integer in network byte order directly precedes the "Token" ﬁeld and
indicates the length of the "Token" ﬁeld minus 269.

Reserved. This value
error.

MUST NOT

 be sent and

MUST

 be processed as a message-format

All other ﬁelds retain their deﬁnitions.

The updated message formats are illustrated in Appendix A.

The new deﬁnition of the "TKL" ﬁeld increases the maximum token length that can be
represented in a message to 65804 bytes. However, the maximum token length that sender and
recipient implementations support may be shorter. For example, a constrained node of
Class 1
[RFC7228]

 might support extended token lengths only up to 32 bytes.

In CoAP over UDP, it is often beneﬁcial to keep CoAP messages small enough to avoid IP
fragmentation. The maximum practical token length may therefore also be inﬂuenced by the
Path MTU (PMTU). See

Section 4.6 of [RFC7252]

 for details.

2.2.  Discovering Support

Extended token lengths require support from server implementations. Support can be
discovered by a client implementation in one of two ways:

•

Where Capabilities and Settings Messages (CSMs) are available, such as in CoAP over TCP,
support can be discovered using the Extended-Token-Length Capability Option deﬁned in
Section 2.2.1.

•

Otherwise, such as in CoAP over UDP, support can only be discovered by trial and error, as
described in Section 2.2.2.

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

2.2.1.  Extended-Token-Length Capability Option

A server can use the elective Extended-Token-Length Capability Option to indicate the maximum
token length it can accept in requests.

#

6

C

R Applies to Name

Format

Length

Base Value

CSM

Extended-Token-Length

uint

0-3

8

Table 1: The Extended-Token-Length Capability Option

C=Critical, R=Repeatable

Section 3 of [RFC7252]

As per
implemented) is 8.

, the base value (and the value used when this option is not

The active value of the Extended-Token-Length Option is replaced each time the option is sent
with a modiﬁed value. Its starting value is its base value.

The option value
received, the option
option value

MUST

 be set to 65804.

MUST NOT

 be less than 8 or greater than 65804. If an option value less than 8 is

MUST

 be ignored. If an option value greater than 65804 is received, the

Any option value greater than 8 implies support for the new deﬁnition of the "TKL" ﬁeld
speciﬁed in Section 2.1. Indication of support by a server does not oblige a client to actually make
use of token lengths greater than 8.

If a server receives a request with a token of a length greater than what it indicated in its
Extended-Token-Length Option, it

 handle the request as a message-format error.

MUST

If a server receives a request with a token of a length less than, or equal to, what it indicated in
its Extended-Token-Length Option but is unwilling or unable to handle the token at that time, it
MUST NOT
(Service Unavailable) response.

 handle the request as a message-format error. Instead, it

 return a 5.03

SHOULD

The Extended-Token-Length Capability Option does not apply to responses. The sender of a
request is simply expected not to use a token of a length greater than it is willing to accept in a
response.

2.2.2.  Trial and Error

A server implementation that does not support the updated deﬁnition of the "TKL" ﬁeld speciﬁed
in Section 2.1 will consider a request with a "TKL" ﬁeld value outside the range 0 to 8 to be a
Section 3 of [RFC7252]
message-format error and reject it (
). A client can therefore determine
support by sending a request with an extended token length and checking whether or not it is
rejected by the server.

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

In CoAP over UDP, the way a request message is rejected depends on the message type. A
Conﬁrmable message with a message-format error is rejected with a Reset message (
of [RFC7252]
Reset message or just silently ignored (
it is therefore
REQUIRED

Section 4.2
). A Non-conﬁrmable message with a message-format error is either rejected with a
). To reliably get a Reset message,

 that clients use a Conﬁrmable message for determining support.

Section 4.3 of [RFC7252]

As per RFC 7252, Reset messages are empty and do not contain a token; they only return the
Message ID (Figure 3). They also do not contain any indication of what caused a message-format
error. To avoid any ambiguity, it is therefore
no potential message-format error other than the extended token length.

 that clients use a request that has

RECOMMENDED

+-----------------+   request message    +------------+
|        |        |    with extended     |            |
|        |        |     token length     |            |
|    .-<-+->------|--------------------->|------.     |
|   _|_           |                      |      |     |
|  /   \ stored   |                      |      |     |
|  \___/ state    |                      |      |     |
|    |            |                      |      |     |
|    '->-+-<------|<---------------------|------'     |
|        |        |     Reset message    |            |
|        v        |   with only message  |            |
+-----------------+    ID echoed back    +------------+
      Client                                 Server
Figure 3: A Conﬁrmable Request with an Extended Token Is Rejected with a Reset Message If the
Server Does Not Have Support

An example of a suitable request is a GET request in a Conﬁrmable message that includes only an
If-None-Match option and a token of the greatest length that the client intends to use. Any
response with the same token echoed back indicates that tokens up to that length are supported
by the server.

SHOULD NOT

 assume that extended token lengths
Since network addresses may change, a client
are supported by a server for an unlimited duration. Unless additional information is available,
the client should assume that addresses (and therefore extended token lengths) are valid for a
minimum of 1800 s and a maximum of 86400 s (1 day). A client may use additional forms of input
into this determination. For instance, a client may assume a server that is in the same subnet as
the client has a similar address lifetime as the client. The client may use DHCP lease times or
Router Advertisements to set the limits. For servers that are not local, if the server was looked up
using DNS, then the DNS resource record will have a Time To Live (TTL), and the extended token
length should be kept for only that amount of time.

If a server supports extended token lengths but receives a request with a token of a length it is
unwilling or unable to handle, it
token lengths are not supported at all. Instead, if the server cannot handle the request at the
time, it
handle the request (e.g., because the token is too large), it
response.

 return a 5.03 (Service Unavailable) response; if the server will never be able to

 reject the message, as that would imply that extended

 return a 4.00 (Bad Request)

MUST NOT

SHOULD

SHOULD

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

Design Note: The requirement to return an error response when a token cannot be
handled might seem somewhat contradictory, as returning the error response
requires the server also to return the token it cannot handle. However, processing a
request usually involves a number of steps from receiving the message to passing it
to application logic. The idea is that a server implementing this extension supports
large tokens at least in its ﬁrst few processing steps, enough to return an error
response rather than a Reset message.

Design Note: To prevent the trial-and-error-based discovery from becoming too
complicated, no eﬀort is made to indicate the maximum supported token length. A
client implementation would probably already choose the shortest token possible
for the task (such as being stateless, as described in Section 3), so it would probably
not be able to reduce the length any further anyway should a server indicate a
lower limit.

2.3.  Intermediaries

Tokens are a hop-by-hop feature: if there are one or more intermediaries between a client and a
server, every token is scoped to the exchange between a node in the client role and the node in
the server role that it is immediately interacting with.

When an intermediary receives a request, the only requirement is that it echoes the token back
in any resulting response. There is no requirement or expectation that an intermediary passes a
client's token on to a server or that an intermediary uses extended token lengths itself in its
request to satisfy a request with an extended token length. Discovery needs to be performed for
each hop where extended token lengths are to be used.

3.  Stateless Clients

A client can be alleviated of keeping per-request state as follows:

1.

The client serializes (parts of) its per-request state into a sequence of bytes and sends those
bytes as the token of its request to the server.

2.

The server returns the token verbatim in the response to the client, which allows the client
to recover the state and process the response as if it had kept the state locally.

As servers are just expected to return any token verbatim to the client, this implementation
strategy for clients does not impact the interoperability of client and server implementations.
However, there are a number of signiﬁcant, nonobvious implications (e.g., related to security and
other CoAP protocol features) that client implementations need take into consideration.

The following subsections discuss some of these considerations.

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

3.1.  Serializing Client State

The format of the serialized state is generally an implementation detail of the client and opaque
to the server. However, serialized state information is an attractive target for both unwanted
nodes (e.g., on-path attackers) and wanted nodes (e.g., any conﬁgured forward proxy) on the
path. The serialization format therefore needs to include security measures such as the
following:

•

A client

SHOULD

 protect the integrity of the state information serialized in a token.

•

Even when the integrity of the serialized state is protected, an attacker may still replay a
response, making the client believe it sent the same request twice. For this reason, the client
 implement replay protection (e.g., by using sequence numbers and a replay
SHOULD
window). For replay protection, integrity protection is

REQUIRED

.

•

If processing a response without keeping request state is sensitive to the time elapsed since
sending the request, then the client
timestamp) in the serialized state and reject any response where the freshness information
is insuﬃciently fresh.

 include freshness information (e.g., a

SHOULD

•

 encrypt the
Information in the serialized state may be privacy sensitive. A client
serialized state if it contains privacy-sensitive information that an attacker would not get
otherwise.

SHOULD

•

When a client changes the format of the serialized state, it
interoperability with the previous format (e.g., by changing the key used for integrity
protection or changing a ﬁeld in the serialized state).

 prevent false

SHOULD

3.2.  Using Extended Tokens

A client that depends on support for extended token lengths (Section 2) from the server to avoid
keeping request state needs to perform a discovery of support (Section 2.2) before it can be
stateless.

MUST

 be performed in a stateful way, i.e., keeping state for the request (Figure 4).

This discovery
If the client was stateless from the start, and the server does not support extended tokens, then
no error message could be processed, since the state would neither be present at the client nor
returned in the Reset message (Figure 5).

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

+-----------------+    dummy request     +------------+
|        |        |    with extended     |            |
|        |        |        token         |            |
|    .-<-+->------|=====================>|------.     |
|   _|_           |                      |      |     |
|  /   \ stored   |                      |      |     |
|  \___/ state    |                      |      |     |
|    |            |                      |      |     |
|    '->-+-<------|<=====================|------'     |
|        |        |     response with    |            |
|        |        |    extended token    |            |
|        |        |      echoed back     |            |
|        |        |                      |            |
|        |        |                      |            |
|        |        |     request with     |            |
|        |        |   serialized state   |            |
|        |        |       as token       |            |
|        +--------|=====================>|------.     |
|                 |                      |      |     |
|    look ma,     |                      |      |     |
|    no state!    |                      |      |     |
|                 |                      |      |     |
|        +--------|<=====================|------'     |
|        |        |     response with    |            |
|        v        |   token echoed back  |            |
+-----------------+                      +------------+
      Client                                 Server
Figure 4: Depending on Extended Tokens for Being Stateless First Requires a Successful Stateful
Discovery of Support

+-----------------+    dummy request     +------------+
|        |        |    with extended     |            |
|        |        |        token         |            |
|        +--------|=====================>|------.     |
|                 |                      |      |     |
|                 |                      |      |     |
|                 |                      |      |     |
|                 |                      |      |     |
|              ???|<---------------------|------'     |
|                 |     Reset message    |            |
|                 |   with only message  |            |
+-----------------+    ID echoed back    +------------+
      Client                                 Server

Figure 5: Stateless Discovery of Support Does Not Work

In environments where support can be reliably discovered through some other means, the
discovery of support is
6TiSCH network [6TISCH-MIN-SEC]
relevant parties.

, where support for extended tokens is required from all

. An example for this is the

OPTIONAL

Constrained Join Protocol (CoJP) in a

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

3.3.  Transmitting Messages

CoAP over UDP [RFC7252]

, a client has the choice between Conﬁrmable and Non-conﬁrmable

In
messages for requests. When using Non-conﬁrmable messages, a client does not have to keep any
message-exchange state, which can help in the goal of avoiding state. When using Conﬁrmable
messages, a client needs to keep message-exchange state for performing retransmissions and
handling Acknowledgement and Reset messages, however. Non-conﬁrmable messages are
therefore better suited for avoiding state. In any case, a client still needs to keep congestion-
control state, i.e., maintain state for each node it communicates with and enforce limits like
NSTART.

Section 5.2 of [RFC7252]

As per
response, a separate response, or a Non-conﬁrmable response, regardless of the message type
used for the request. A stateless client

, a client must be prepared to receive a response as a piggybacked

 handle these response types as follows:

MUST

•

If a piggybacked response passes the checks for token integrity and freshness (Section 3.1),
the client processes the message as speciﬁed in RFC 7252; otherwise, it processes the
acknowledgement portion of the message as speciﬁed in RFC 7252 and silently discards the
response portion.

•

If a separate response passes the checks for token integrity and freshness, the client
processes the message as speciﬁed in RFC 7252; otherwise, it rejects the message as speciﬁed
in

Section 4.2 of [RFC7252]

.

•

If a Non-conﬁrmable response passes the checks for token integrity and freshness, the client
processes the message as speciﬁed in RFC 7252; otherwise, it rejects the message as speciﬁed
in

Section 4.3 of [RFC7252]

.

4.  Stateless Intermediaries

Tokens are a hop-by-hop feature. If a client makes a request to an intermediary, that
intermediary needs to store the client's token (along with the client's transport address) while it
makes its own request towards the origin server and waits for the response. When the
intermediary receives the response, it looks up the client's token and transport address for the
received request and sends an appropriate response to the client.

An intermediary might want to be "stateless" not only in its role as a client but also in its role as a
server, i.e., be alleviated of storing the client information for the requests it receives.

Such an intermediary can be implemented by serializing the client information along with the
request state into the token towards the origin server. When the intermediary receives the
response, it can recover the client information from the token and use it to satisfy the client's
request; therefore, the intermediary doesn't need to store the information itself.

The following subsections discuss some considerations for this approach.

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

4.1.  Observing Resources

One drawback of the approach is that an intermediary, without keeping request state, is unable
to aggregate multiple requests for the same target resource, which can signiﬁcantly reduce
eﬃciency. In particular, when clients observe
is
 (
request state.

). This requirement cannot be satisﬁed without keeping

REQUIRED Section 3.1 of [RFC7641]

 the same resource, aggregating requests

[RFC7641]

Furthermore, an intermediary that does not keep track of the clients observing a resource is not
able to determine whether these clients are still interested in receiving further notiﬁcations
(
Section 3.5 of [RFC7641]

) or want to cancel an observation (

Section 3.6 of [RFC7641]

).

Therefore, an intermediary
keeping both the request state for the requests it sends and the client information for the
requests it receives.

 include an Observe Option in requests it sends without

MUST NOT

4.2.  Block-Wise Transfers

block-wise transfers [RFC7959]

When using
originating from diﬀerent clients once they have been forwarded by an intermediary.
Intermediaries need to ensure that this does not lead to inconsistent resource state by keeping
distinct block-wise request operations on the same resource apart, e.g., utilizing the
.
Option [ECHO-REQUEST-TAG]

, a server might not be able to distinguish blocks

Request-Tag

4.3.  Gateway Timeouts

, an intermediary is

Section 5.7.1 of [RFC7252]

As per
Timeout) response if it cannot obtain a response within a timeout. However, if an intermediary
does not keep the client information for the requests it receives, it cannot return such a response.
Therefore, in this case, the gateway cannot return such a response and as such cannot implement
such a timeout.

 to return a 5.04 (Gateway

REQUIRED

4.4.  Extended Tokens

A client may make use of extended token lengths in a request to an intermediary that wants to be
"stateless". This means that such an intermediary may have to serialize potentially very large
client information into its token towards the origin server. The tokens can grow even further
when it progresses along a chain of intermediaries that all want to be "stateless".

SHOULD

 limit the size of client information they are serializing into their own

Intermediaries
tokens. An intermediary can do this, for example, by limiting the extended token lengths it
accepts from its clients (see Section 2.2) or by keeping the client information locally when the
client information exceeds the limit (i.e., not being "stateless").

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

5.  Security Considerations

5.1.  Extended Tokens

Tokens signiﬁcantly larger than the 8 bytes speciﬁed in RFC 7252 have implications -- in
particular, for nodes with constrained memory size -- that need to be mitigated. A node in the
server role supporting extended token lengths may be vulnerable to a denial of service when an
attacker (either on-path or a malicious client) sends large tokens to ﬁll up the memory of the
node. Implementations need to be prepared to handle such messages.

5.2.  Stateless Clients and Intermediaries

Transporting the state needed by a client to process a response as serialized state information in
the token has several signiﬁcant and nonobvious security and privacy implications that need to
be mitigated; see Section 3.1 for recommendations.

In addition to the format requirements outlined there, implementations need to ensure that they
are not vulnerable to maliciously crafted, delayed, or replayed tokens.

It is generally expected that the use of encryption, integrity protection, and replay protection for
serialized state is appropriate.

In the absence of integrity and replay protection, an on-path attacker or rogue server/
intermediary could return a state (either one modiﬁed in a reply, or an unsolicited one) that
could alter the internal state of the client.

It is for this reason that at least the use of integrity protection on the token is always
recommended.

It may be that in some very speciﬁc cases, as a result of a careful and detailed analysis of any
potential attacks, it is decided that such cryptographic protections do not add value. The authors
of this document have not found such a use case as yet, but this is a local decision.

It should further be emphasized that the encrypted state is created by the sending node and
decrypted by the same node when receiving a response. The key is not shared with any other
system. Therefore, the choice of encryption scheme and the generation of the key for this system
is purely a local matter.

When encryption is used, the use of
AES-CCM [RFC3610]
combined with a sequence number and a replay window. This choice is informed by available
hardware acceleration of on many constrained systems. If a diﬀerent algorithm is available
accelerated on the sender, with similar or stronger strength, then it
privacy of the state is not required, and encryption is not needed,
combined with a sequence number and a replay window, may be used.

 with a 64-bit tag is recommended,

HMAC-SHA-256 [RFC6234]

SHOULD

,

 be preferred. Where

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

This size of the replay window depends upon the number of requests that need to be
outstanding. This can be determined from the rate at which new ones are made and the expected
time period during which responses are expected.

For instance, given a CoAP MAX_TRANSMIT_WAIT of 93 s (
request that is not answered within 93 s will be considered to have failed. At a request rate of
one request per 10 s, at most 10 (ceil(9.3)) requests can be outstanding at a time, and any
convenient replay window larger than 20 will work. As replay windows are often implemented
with a sliding window and a bit, the use of a 32-bit window would be suﬃcient.

Section 4.8.2 of [RFC7252]

), any

For use cases where requests are being relayed from another node, the request rate may be
estimated by the total link capacity allocated for that kind of traﬃc. An alternate view would
consider how many IPv6 Neighbor Cache Entries (NCEs) the system can aﬀord to allocate for this
use.

When using an encryption mode that depends on a nonce, such as AES-CCM, repeated use of the
same nonce under the same key causes the cipher to fail catastrophically.

If a nonce is ever used for more than one encryption operation with the same key, then the same
key stream gets used to encrypt both plaintexts, and the conﬁdentiality guarantees are voided.
Devices with low-quality entropy sources -- as is typical with constrained devices, which
incidentally happen to be a natural candidate for the stateless mechanism described in this
document -- need to carefully pick a nonce-generation mechanism that provides the above
uniqueness guarantee.

[RFC8613]
nonrepeating nonces without causing excessive wear of ﬂash memory.

, Appendix B.1.1 ("Sender Sequence Number") provides a model for how to maintain

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  CoAP Signaling Option Number

The following entry has been added to the "CoAP Signaling Option Numbers" registry within the
"CoRE Parameters" registry.

Applies to Number Name

Reference

7.01

6

Extended-Token-Length

RFC 8974

Table 2: CoAP Signaling Option Number

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

[RFC7252]

[RFC7641]

[RFC7959]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8323]

,
Shelby, Z., Hartke, K., and C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

<https://www.rfc-

, June 2014,

,

,

.

,

Hartke, K. "Observing Resources in the Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP)" RFC 7641 DOI 10.17487/RFC7641
editor.org/info/rfc7641>

, September 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,
Bormann, C. and Z. Shelby, Ed. "Block-Wise Transfers in the Constrained
Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 7959 DOI 10.17487/RFC7959
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7959>

,

,

.

, August 2016,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Bormann, C., Lemay, S., Tschofenig, H., Hartke, K., Silverajan, B., and B. Raymor,
,
Ed. "CoAP (Constrained Application Protocol) over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets"
RFC 8323 DOI 10.17487/RFC8323
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc8323>

, February 2018,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[6TISCH-MIN-SEC]

Vucinic, M., Simon, J., Pister, K., and M. Richardson "Constrained Join
Protocol (CoJP) for 6TiSCH" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-6tisch-
minimal-security-15
ietf-6tisch-minimal-security-15>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-

, 10 December 2019,

,

,

.

,

[ECHO-REQUEST-TAG]

Amsüss, C., Mattsson, J. P., and G. Selander "CoAP: Echo, Request-Tag,
and Token Processing" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-core-echo-
request-tag-11
request-tag-11>

,
, 2 November 2020,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-core-echo-

,

.

,

[RFC3610]

[RFC6234]

[RFC7228]

Whiting, D., Housley, R., and N. Ferguson "Counter with CBC-MAC (CCM)" RFC
,
3610 DOI 10.17487/RFC3610
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc3610>

, September 2003,

.

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. and T. Hansen "US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and SHA-
based HMAC and HKDF)" RFC 6234 DOI 10.17487/RFC6234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6234>

, May 2011,

,

,

.

,

<https://

Bormann, C., Ersue, M., and A. Keranen "Terminology for Constrained-Node
,
,
Networks" RFC 7228 DOI 10.17487/RFC7228
editor.org/info/rfc7228>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2014,

.

,

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

[RFC8613]

Selander, G., Mattsson, J., Palombini, F., and L. Seitz "Object Security for
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)" RFC 8613 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8613

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8613>

, July 2019,

,

,

,

.

Appendix A.  Updated Message Formats

In Section 2, this document updates the CoAP message formats by specifying a new deﬁnition of
the "TKL" ﬁeld in the message header. As an alternative presentation of this update, this
appendix shows the CoAP message formats for
TLS, and WebSockets [RFC8323]

 with the new deﬁnition applied.

CoAP over UDP [RFC7252]

CoAP over TCP,

 and

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

A.1.  CoAP over UDP

                0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7
              +-------+-------+---------------+
              |       |       |               |
              |  Ver  |   T   |      TKL      |   1 byte
              |       |       |               |
              +-------+-------+---------------+
              |                               |
              |             Code              |   1 byte
              |                               |
              +-------------------------------+
              |                               |
              |                               |
              |                               |
              +-         Message ID          -+   2 bytes
              |                               |
              |                               |
              |                               |
              +-------------------------------+
              \                               \
              /              TKL              /   0-2 bytes
              \          (extended)           \
              +-------------------------------+
              \                               \
              /             Token             /   0-65804 bytes
              \                               \
              +-------------------------------+
              \                               \
              /                               /
              \                               \
              /            Options            /   0 or more bytes
              \                               \
              /                               /
              \                               \
              +---------------+---------------+
              |               |               |
              |      15       |       15      |   1 byte (if payload)
              |               |               |
              +---------------+---------------+
              \                               \
              /                               /
              \                               \
              /            Payload            /   0 or more bytes
              \                               \
              /                               /
              \                               \
              +-------------------------------+

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

A.2.  CoAP over TCP/TLS

                0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7
              +---------------+---------------+
              |               |               |
              |      Len      |      TKL      |   1 byte
              |               |               |
              +---------------+---------------+
              \                               \
              /              Len              /   0-4 bytes
              \          (extended)           \
              +-------------------------------+
              |                               |
              |             Code              |   1 byte
              |                               |
              +-------------------------------+
              \                               \
              /              TKL              /   0-2 bytes
              \          (extended)           \
              +-------------------------------+
              \                               \
              /             Token             /   0-65804 bytes
              \                               \
              +-------------------------------+
              \                               \
              /                               /
              \                               \
              /            Options            /   0 or more bytes
              \                               \
              /                               /
              \                               \
              +---------------+---------------+
              |               |               |
              |      15       |       15      |   1 byte (if payload)
              |               |               |
              +---------------+---------------+
              \                               \
              /                               /
              \                               \
              /            Payload            /   0 or more bytes
              \                               \
              /                               /
              \                               \
              +-------------------------------+

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

A.3.  CoAP over WebSockets

                0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7
              +---------------+---------------+
              |               |               |
              |       0       |      TKL      |   1 byte
              |               |               |
              +---------------+---------------+
              |                               |
              |             Code              |   1 byte
              |                               |
              +-------------------------------+
              \                               \
              /              TKL              /   0-2 bytes
              \          (extended)           \
              +-------------------------------+
              \                               \
              /             Token             /   0-65804 bytes
              \                               \
              +-------------------------------+
              \                               \
              /                               /
              \                               \
              /            Options            /   0 or more bytes
              \                               \
              /                               /
              \                               \
              +---------------+---------------+
              |               |               |
              |      15       |       15      |   1 byte (if payload)
              |               |               |
              +---------------+---------------+
              \                               \
              /                               /
              \                               \
              /            Payload            /   0 or more bytes
              \                               \
              /                               /
              \                               \
              +-------------------------------+

Acknowledgements

This document is based on the requirements of, and work on, "Constrained Join Protocol (CoJP)
for 6TiSCH" (January 2020) by
Richardson
.

Mališa Vučinić Jonathan Simon Kris Pister

Michael

, and

,

,

,

Christian Amsüss Carsten Bormann Roman Danyliw Christer Holmberg Benjamin
,

Thanks to
Kaduk Ari Keränen Erik Kline Murray Kucherawy Warren Kumari Barry Leiba David
Mandelberg Dan Romascanu Jim Schaad Göran Selander Mališa Vučinić Éric Vyncke
,
Robert Wilton

 for helpful comments and discussions that have shaped the document.

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8974

Extended Tokens in CoAP

January 2021

Special thanks to
document, and to

John Mattsson
Thomas Fossati

 for his contributions to the security considerations of the

 for his in-depth review, copious comments, and suggested text.

Authors' Addresses

Klaus Hartke
Ericsson
Torshamnsgatan 23
SE-
16483 Stockholm
Sweden
Email:

 klaus.hartke@ericsson.com

Michael C. Richardson
Sandelman Software Works
Email:
URI:

 mcr+ietf@sandelman.ca
 http://www.sandelman.ca/

Hartke & Richardson

Standards Track

Page 20

