Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8857
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
V. Pascual
Nokia

S. Cazeaux
Orange

A. Román
Quobis

G. Salgueiro
Cisco

R. Ravindranath
Cisco

RFC 8857
The WebSocket Protocol as a Transport for the
Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP)

Abstract

The WebSocket protocol enables two-way real-time communication between clients and servers.
This document speciﬁes the use of Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP) as a new WebSocket
subprotocol enabling a reliable transport mechanism between BFCP entities in new scenarios.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8857

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Pascual, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8857

WebSocket as a Transport for BFCP

January 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Deﬁnitions

3.  The WebSocket Protocol

4.  The WebSocket BFCP Subprotocol

4.1.  Handshake

4.2.  BFCP Encoding

5.  Transport Reliability

6.  SDP Considerations

6.1.  Transport Negotiation

6.2.  SDP Media Attributes

7.  SDP Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

7.1.  General

7.2.  Example Usage of 'websocket-uri' SDP Attribute

8.  Authentication

9.  Security Considerations

10. IANA Considerations

10.1.  Registration of the WebSocket BFCP Subprotocol

10.2.  Registration of the 'TCP/WS/BFCP' and 'TCP/WSS/BFCP' SDP "proto" Values

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Pascual, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8857

WebSocket as a Transport for BFCP

January 2021

1.  Introduction

The WebSocket (WS) protocol
servers on top of a persistent TCP connection, optionally secured with Transport Layer Security
(TLS)
[RFC7230]

 semantics, allowing the WebSocket protocol to reuse existing HTTP infrastructure.

. The initial protocol handshake makes use of Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)

 enables two-way message exchange between clients and

[RFC6455]

[RFC8446]

The Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP) is a protocol to coordinate access to shared resources in
a conference. It is deﬁned in
servers, and between ﬂoor chairs (i.e., moderators) and ﬂoor control servers.

 and is used between ﬂoor participants and ﬂoor control

[RFC8855]

Modern web browsers include a WebSocket client stack complying with the WebSocket API
 as speciﬁed by the W3C. It is expected that other client applications (those running in
API]
personal computers and devices such as smartphones) will also make a WebSocket client stack
available. This document extends the applicability of
usage of BFCP in these scenarios.

 to enable the

[RFC8856]

[RFC8855]

 and

[WS-

[RFC8856]

).
[RFC5018]
 deﬁnes two transports for BFCP: TCP and UDP. This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a new
Section 1.9 of [RFC6455]

The transport over which BFCP entities exchange messages depends on how the clients obtain
information to contact the ﬂoor control server (e.g., using a Session Description Protocol (SDP)
oﬀer/answer exchange per
[RFC8855]
WebSocket subprotocol (as deﬁned in
between a WebSocket client and server. This subprotocol provides a reliable and boundary-
preserving transport for BFCP when run on top of TCP. Since WebSocket provides a reliable
transport, the extensions deﬁned in
not applicable.

 or the procedure described in RFC 5018

 for sending BFCP over unreliable transports are

) for transporting BFCP messages

[RFC8855]

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.1.  Deﬁnitions

BFCP WebSocket Client:

Any BFCP entity capable of opening outbound connections to

WebSocket servers and communicating using the WebSocket BFCP subprotocol as deﬁned
by this document.

BFCP WebSocket Server:

Any BFCP entity capable of listening for inbound connections from

WebSocket clients and communicating using the WebSocket BFCP subprotocol as deﬁned
by this document.

Pascual, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8857

WebSocket as a Transport for BFCP

January 2021

3.  The WebSocket Protocol

[RFC6455]

) in which both client and server exchange message units in both directions. The

The WebSocket protocol
[RFC8446]
protocol deﬁnes a connection handshake, WebSocket subprotocol and extensions negotiation, a
frame format for sending application and control data, a masking mechanism, and status codes
for indicating disconnection causes.

 is a transport layer on top of TCP (optionally secured with TLS

[RFC7230]

 and utilizes the HTTP GET

The WebSocket connection handshake is based on HTTP
method with an Upgrade header ﬁeld. This is sent by the client and then answered by the server
(if the negotiation succeeded) with an HTTP 101 status code. Once the handshake is completed,
the connection upgrades from HTTP to the WebSocket protocol. This handshake procedure is
designed to reuse the existing HTTP infrastructure. During the connection handshake, the client
and server agree on the application protocol to use on top of the WebSocket transport. Such an
application protocol (also known as a "WebSocket subprotocol") deﬁnes the format and
semantics of the messages exchanged by the endpoints. This could be a custom protocol or a
standardized one (as the WebSocket BFCP subprotocol deﬁned in this document). Once the HTTP
101 response is processed, both the client and server reuse the underlying TCP connection for
sending WebSocket messages and control frames to each other. Unlike plain HTTP, this
connection is persistent and can be used for multiple message exchanges.

The WebSocket protocol deﬁnes message units to be used by applications for the exchange of
data, so it provides a message boundary-preserving transport layer.

4.  The WebSocket BFCP Subprotocol

The term WebSocket subprotocol refers to an application-level protocol layered on top of a
WebSocket connection. This document speciﬁes the WebSocket BFCP subprotocol for carrying
BFCP messages over a WebSocket connection.

4.1.  Handshake

The BFCP WebSocket client and BFCP WebSocket server negotiate usage of the WebSocket BFCP
Section 1.3 of [RFC6455]
subprotocol during the WebSocket handshake procedure as deﬁned in
.
The client
handshake request. The 101 reply from the server
WebSocket-Protocol header ﬁeld.

 include the value "bfcp" in the Sec-WebSocket-Protocol header ﬁeld in its
MUST

 contain "bfcp" in its corresponding Sec-

MUST

Pascual, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8857

WebSocket as a Transport for BFCP

January 2021

Below is an example of a WebSocket handshake in which the client requests the WebSocket BFCP
subprotocol support from the server:

  GET / HTTP/1.1
  Host: bfcp-ws.example.com
  Upgrade: websocket
  Connection: Upgrade
  Sec-WebSocket-Key: dGhlIHNhbXBsZSBub25jZQ==
  Origin: http://www.example.com
  Sec-WebSocket-Protocol: bfcp
  Sec-WebSocket-Version: 13

The handshake response from the server accepting the WebSocket BFCP subprotocol would look
as follows:

  HTTP/1.1 101 Switching Protocols
  Upgrade: websocket
  Connection: Upgrade
  Sec-WebSocket-Accept: s3pPLMBiTxaQ9kYGzzhZRbK+xOo=
  Sec-WebSocket-Protocol: bfcp

Once the negotiation has been completed, the WebSocket connection is established and can be
used for the transport of BFCP messages.

4.2.  BFCP Encoding

BFCP messages use a TLV (Type-Length-Value) binary encoding, therefore BFCP WebSocket
clients and BFCP WebSocket servers
frames (FIN: 1, opcode: %x2) to exchange BFCP messages. The WebSocket frame data
valid BFCP message, so the length of the payload of the WebSocket frame
maximum size allowed (216 +12 bytes) for a BFCP message as described in
the encoding rules for reliable protocols deﬁned in

 be transported in unfragmented binary WebSocket

[RFC8855] MUST

MUST
 be lower than the

 be followed.

. In addition,

[RFC8855]

MUST

MUST

 be a

While this speciﬁcation assumes that BFCP encoding is only TLV binary, future documents may
deﬁne other mechanisms, like JSON serialization. If encoding changes, a new subprotocol
identiﬁer would need to be selected.

Each BFCP message
message
MUST NOT

MUST
 contain more than one BFCP message.

 be carried within a single WebSocket message, and a WebSocket

5.  Transport Reliability

[RFC6455]

The WebSocket protocol
WebSocket subprotocol deﬁned by this document also provides reliable BFCP transport. Thus,
client and server transactions using the WebSocket protocol for transport
.
procedures for reliable transports as deﬁned in
[RFC8856]

 provides a reliable transport, and therefore the BFCP

 follow the

[RFC8855]

MUST

 and

Pascual, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8857

WebSocket as a Transport for BFCP

January 2021

BFCP WebSocket clients cannot receive incoming WebSocket connections initiated by any other
peer. This means that a BFCP WebSocket client
BFCP WebSocket server. The BFCP server will have a globally routable address and thus does not
require ICE, as clients always initiate connections to it.

 actively initiate a connection towards a

MUST

6.  SDP Considerations

6.1.  Transport Negotiation

Rules to generate an "m=" line for a BFCP stream are described in

[RFC8856], Section 4

.

New values are deﬁned for the SDP "proto" ﬁeld: 'TCP/WS/BFCP' and 'TCP/WSS/BFCP'.

'TCP/WS/BFCP' is used when BFCP runs on top of WS, which in turn runs on top of TCP.

'TCP/WSS/BFCP' is used when BFCP runs on top of secure WebSocket (WSS), which in turn
runs on top of TLS and TCP.

The "port" ﬁeld is set following the rules in Section 4 and Section 7.1 of
[RFC8856]
, the "port" ﬁeld contains the port to
the value of the SDP 'setup' attribute deﬁned in
which the remote endpoint will direct BFCP messages, or it is irrelevant (i.e., the endpoint will
initiate the connection towards the remote endpoint) and should be set to a value of '9', which is
the discard port. The 'connection' attribute and port

 follow the rules of

. Depending on

.
[RFC4145]

[RFC4145]

MUST

While this document recommends the use of secure WebSocket (i.e., TCP/WSS) for security
reasons, TCP/WS is also permitted so as to achieve maximum compatibility among clients.

6.2.  SDP Media Attributes

 deﬁnes a new SDP attribute to indicate the connection Uniform Resource Identiﬁer

[RFC8124]
(URI) for the WebSocket client. The SDP attribute 'websocket-uri' deﬁned in
[RFC8124] MUST
attribute is present in the media section of the SDP, the procedures mentioned in
[RFC8124] MUST

 be used when BFCP runs on top of WS or WSS. When the 'websocket-uri'

 be followed.

Section 3 of

Section 4 of

7.  SDP Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

7.1.  General

 create an SDP media description
An endpoint (i.e., both the oﬀerer and the answerer)
("m=" line) for each BFCP-over-WebSocket media stream and
 assign either a 'TCP/WSS/
BFCP' or 'TCP/WS/BFCP' value to the "proto" ﬁeld of the "m=" line depending on whether the
endpoint wishes to use secure WebSocket or WebSocket. Furthermore, the server side, which
could be either the oﬀerer or answerer,
depending on whether it wishes to use WebSocket or secure WebSocket. This new attribute

 add a 'websocket-uri' attribute in the media section
MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

Pascual, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8857

WebSocket as a Transport for BFCP

January 2021

follow the syntax deﬁned in
Section 4 of [RFC8124] MUST
WebSocket media stream.

[RFC8124]
 be followed for the "m=" line associated with a BFCP-over-

. Additionally, the SDP oﬀer/answer procedures deﬁned in

7.2.  Example Usage of 'websocket-uri' SDP Attribute

The following is an example of an "m=" line for a BFCP connection. In this example, the oﬀerer
sends the SDP with the "proto" ﬁeld having a value of 'TCP/WSS/BFCP', indicating that the oﬀerer
wishes to use secure WebSocket as a transport for the media stream, and the "fmt" ﬁeld having a
value of '*' (for details on the "fmt" ﬁeld, see

Section 4 of [RFC8856]

).

Offer (browser):
m=application 9 TCP/WSS/BFCP *
a=setup:active
a=connection:new
a=floorctrl:c-only
m=audio 55000 RTP/AVP 0
m=video 55002 RTP/AVP 31

Answer (server):
m=application 50000 TCP/WSS/BFCP *
a=setup:passive
a=connection:new
a=websocket-uri:wss://bfcp-ws.example.com?token=3170449312
a=floorctrl:s-only
a=confid:4321
a=userid:1234
a=floorid:1 m-stream:10
a=floorid:2 m-stream:11
m=audio 50002 RTP/AVP 0
a=label:10
m=video 50004 RTP/AVP 31
a=label:11

It is possible that an endpoint (e.g., a browser) sends an oﬀerless INVITE to the server. In such
cases, the server will act as SDP oﬀerer. The server
value of 'passive'. The server
value depending on whether the server wishes to use WebSocket or secure WebSocket. This
. For BFCP application, the
attribute
"proto" value in the "m=" line
MUST
'TCP/WS/BFCP'.

 assign the SDP 'setup' attribute with a
 have a 'websocket-uri' attribute with a 'ws-URI' or 'wss-URI'

 be 'TCP/WSS/BFCP' if WebSocket is over TLS, else it

 follow the syntax deﬁned in

Section 3 of [RFC8124]

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be

8.  Authentication

 states that BFCP clients and ﬂoor control servers

Section 9 of [RFC8855]
each other prior to accepting messages, and RECOMMENDS that mutual TLS/DTLS authentication
be used. However, browser-based WebSocket clients have no control over the use of TLS in the
WebSocket API
server authentication are used, as follows.

 that standard web-based methods for client and

RECOMMENDED

 authenticate

[WS-API]

, so it is

SHOULD

Pascual, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8857

WebSocket as a Transport for BFCP

January 2021

When a BFCP WebSocket client connects to a BFCP WebSocket server, it
its transport. If the signaling or control protocol traﬃc used to set up the conference is
authenticated and conﬁdentiality and integrity protected, secure WebSocket (WSS)
and the ﬂoor control server
procedures in
client validates the server by means of verifying the server certiﬁcate. This means the
'websocket-uri' value
 contain a hostname. The veriﬁcation process does not use
"a=ﬁngerprint".

 follow the
 while setting up TLS connection with the WebSocket server. The BFCP

 authenticate the client. The WebSocket client

 use TCP/WSS as

[RFC7525]

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be used,

A ﬂoor control server that receives a message over TCP/WS can mandate the use of TCP/WSS by
generating an Error message, as described in
value of 9 (Use TLS).

Section 13.8 of [RFC8855]

, with an error code with a

Prior to sending BFCP requests, a BFCP WebSocket client connects to a BFCP WebSocket server
and performs the connection handshake. As described in Section 4.1, the handshake procedure
involves an HTTP GET method request from the client and a response from the server including
an HTTP 101 status code.

[RFC6265]

 inspect any
In order to authorize the WebSocket connection, the BFCP WebSocket server
 present in the HTTP GET request. For many web applications, the
cookie header ﬁelds
value of such a cookie is provided by the web server once the user has authenticated themselves
to the web server, which could be done by many existing mechanisms. As an alternative method,
the BFCP WebSocket server could request HTTP authentication by replying to the client's GET
 covers this
method request with an HTTP 401 status code. The WebSocket protocol
usage in Section 4.1:

[RFC6455]

SHOULD

[RFC7230]

 procedures; in particular, the client might perform

If the status code received from the server is not 101, the WebSocket client stack handles the
response per HTTP
authentication if it receives an 401 status code. The WebSocket clients are vulnerable to the
attacks of basic authentication (mentioned in
authentication (mentioned in
weaknesses, WebSocket clients can use the HTTP Origin-Bound Authentication (HOBA)
, for example.
mechanism mentioned in

). To overcome some of these

Section 5 of [RFC7616]

Section 4 of [RFC7617]

) and digest

[RFC7486]

9.  Security Considerations

Considerations from

[RFC8855] [RFC8856]
,

, and

[RFC5018]

 apply.

RECOMMENDED

BFCP relies on lower-layer security mechanisms to provide replay and integrity protection and
conﬁdentiality. It is
protected by using a Secure WebSocket connection (using TLS
considerations in
typical webserver-client model where the client validates the server certiﬁcate and then
connects to the server. Section 8 describes the authentication procedures between client and
server.

 over TCP). The security
 apply for BFCP over WebSocket as well. The security model here is a

 that the BFCP traﬃc transported over WebSocket be

[RFC6455]

[RFC8446]

Pascual, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8857

WebSocket as a Transport for BFCP

January 2021

When using BFCP over WebSocket, the security mechanisms deﬁned in
Instead, the application is required to build and rely on the security mechanisms in

[RFC8855]

 are not used.
[RFC6455]
.

The rest of this section analyses the threats described in
WebSocket is used as a transport protocol for BFCP.

Section 14 of [RFC8855]

 when

An attacker attempting to impersonate a ﬂoor control server is avoided by having servers accept
BFCP messages over WSS only. As with any other web connection, the clients will verify the
server's certiﬁcate. The BFCP WebSocket client
(including hostname veriﬁcation as per
connection with ﬂoor control WebSocket server.

 follow the procedures in

Section 6.1 of [RFC7525]

) while setting up a TLS

[RFC7525]

MUST

An attacker attempting to impersonate a ﬂoor control client is avoided by having servers accept
BFCP messages over WSS only. As described in
 the ﬂoor control server
can use any client authentication mechanism and follow the steps in Section 8 of this document.

Section 10.5 of [RFC6455]

Attackers may attempt to modify messages exchanged by a client and a ﬂoor control server. This
can be prevented by having WSS between client and server.

An attacker trying to replay the messages is prevented by having ﬂoor control servers check that
messages arriving over a given WSS connection use an authorized user ID.

Attackers may eavesdrop on the network to get access to conﬁdential information between the
ﬂoor control server and a client (e.g., why a ﬂoor request was denied). In order to ensure that
BFCP users are getting the level of protection that they would get using BFCP directly,
applications need to have a way to control the WebSocket libraries to use encryption algorithms
speciﬁed in
. Since the WebSocket API
allow an application to select the encryption algorithm to be used, the protection level provided
when WSS is used is limited to the underlying TLS algorithm used by the WebSocket library.

 does not have a way to

Section 7 of [RFC8855]

[WS-API]

10.  IANA Considerations

10.1.  Registration of the WebSocket BFCP Subprotocol

IANA has registered the WebSocket BFCP subprotocol under the "WebSocket Subprotocol Name
Registry" as follows:

Subprotocol Identiﬁer:

bfcp

Subprotocol Common Name:

WebSocket Transport for BFCP (Binary Floor Control Protocol)

Subprotocol Deﬁnition:

RFC 8857

Pascual, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8857

WebSocket as a Transport for BFCP

January 2021

10.2.  Registration of the 'TCP/WS/BFCP' and 'TCP/WSS/BFCP' SDP "proto"
Values

This document deﬁnes two new values for the SDP "proto" subregistry within the "Session
Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The resulting entries are shown in Table 1:

Value

Reference

TCP/WS/BFCP

RFC 8857

TCP/WSS/BFCP

RFC 8857

Table 1: Values for the SDP "proto" Field

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4145]

[RFC5018]

[RFC6455]

[RFC7525]

[RFC8124]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Yon, D. and G. Camarillo "TCP-Based Media Transport in the Session Description
,
Protocol (SDP)" RFC 4145 DOI 10.17487/RFC4145
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4145>

, September 2005,

<https://

,

.

,

Camarillo, G. "Connection Establishment in the Binary Floor Control Protocol
<https://www.rfc-
(BFCP)" RFC 5018 DOI 10.17487/RFC5018
editor.org/info/rfc5018>

, September 2007,

,

,

.

Fette, I. and A. Melnikov "The WebSocket Protocol" RFC 6455 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6455

,
, December 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6455>

,

,

.

,
Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Ravindranath, R. and G. Salgueiro "The Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
WebSocket Connection URI Attribute" RFC 8124 DOI 10.17487/RFC8124
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8124>

,
.

,

, March

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Pascual, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8857

WebSocket as a Transport for BFCP

January 2021

[RFC8855]

[RFC8856]

Camarillo, G., Drage, K., Kristensen, T., Ott, J., and C. Eckel "The Binary Floor
,
Control Protocol (BFCP)" RFC 8855 DOI 10.17487/RFC8855
, January 2021,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8855>

.

,

,

Camarillo, G., Kristensen, T., and C. Holmberg "Session Description Protocol
,
(SDP) Format for Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP) Streams" RFC 8856 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8856>
10.17487/RFC8856

, January 2021,

,

,

11.2.  Informative References

[RFC6265]

[RFC7230]

[RFC7486]

[RFC7616]

[RFC7617]

[RFC8446]

[WS-API]

Barth, A. "HTTP State Management Mechanism" RFC 6265 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6265

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6265>

,
, April 2011,

,

,

.

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Message Syntax and Routing" RFC 7230 DOI 10.17487/RFC7230
, June 2014,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7230>

.

,

,

Farrell, S., Hoﬀman, P., and M. Thomas "HTTP Origin-Bound Authentication
(HOBA)" RFC 7486 DOI 10.17487/RFC7486
editor.org/info/rfc7486>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2015,

,

,

.

,

Shekh-Yusef, R., Ed., Ahrens, D., and S. Bremer "HTTP Digest Access
, September 2015,
,
Authentication" RFC 7616 DOI 10.17487/RFC7616
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7616>

,

.

,

<https://

Reschke, J. "The 'Basic' HTTP Authentication Scheme" RFC 7617 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7617

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7617>

, September 2015,

.

,

,

,

,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

,
Hickson, I., Ed. "The WebSocket API" W3C Candidate Recommendation,
September 2012 <https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/CR-websockets-20120920/>

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

Robert Welbourn

The authors want to thank
made signiﬁcant contributions to the ﬁrst draft version of this document. This work beneﬁted
from the thorough review and constructive comments of
Kyzivat Dan Wing
Kühlewind

Bert Wijnen Robert Sparks
,
 for their reviews and comments on this document.

 from Acme Packet and

Charles Eckel Christer Holmberg Paul

Sergio Garcia Murillo

Alissa Cooper

. Thanks to

Mirja

, and

, and

, who

,

,

,

Thanks to
Stephen Farrell

Spencer Dawkins Ben Campbell Kathleen Moriarty Alexey Melnikov Jari Arkko

,
 for their feedback and comments during IESG reviews.

,

,

,

, and

Pascual, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8857

WebSocket as a Transport for BFCP

January 2021

Authors' Addresses

Victor Pascual
Nokia
Barcelona
Spain
Email:

 victor.pascual_avila@nokia.com

Antón Román
Quobis
Pol. Ind. A Granxa, Casa de Pedra
36475 O Porriño
Spain
Email:

 anton.roman@quobis.com

Stéphane Cazeaux
Orange
42 rue des Coutures
14000 Caen
France
Email:

 stephane.cazeaux@orange.com

Gonzalo Salgueiro
Cisco Systems, Inc.
7200-12 Kit Creek Road
Research Triangle Park NC 27709
,
United States of America
Email:

 gsalguei@cisco.com

Ram Mohan Ravindranath
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Cessna Business Park
Kadabeesanahalli Village, Varthur Hobli,
Sarjapur-Marathahalli Outer Ring Road
Bangalore 560103
Karnataka
India
Email:

 rmohanr@cisco.com

Pascual, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

