Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8842
5763, 7345
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
C. Holmberg
Ericsson

R. Shpount
TurboBridge

RFC 8842
Session Description Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer
Considerations for Datagram Transport Layer
Security (DTLS) and Transport Layer Security (TLS)

Abstract

This document deﬁnes the Session Description Protocol (SDP) oﬀer/answer procedures for
negotiating and establishing a Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) association. The
document also deﬁnes the criteria for when a new DTLS association must be established. The
document updates RFCs 5763 and 7345 by replacing common SDP oﬀer/answer procedures with
a reference to this speciﬁcation.

This document deﬁnes a new SDP media-level attribute, "tls-id".

This document also deﬁnes how the "tls-id" attribute can be used for negotiating and establishing
a Transport Layer Security (TLS) connection, in conjunction with the procedures in RFCs 4145
and 8122.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8842

.

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions

3.  Establishing a New DTLS Association

3.1.  General

3.2.  Change of Local Transport Parameters

3.3.  Change of ICE ufrag Value

4.  SDP "tls-id" Attribute

5.  SDP Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

5.1.  General

5.2.  Generating the Initial SDP Oﬀer

5.3.  Generating the Answer

5.4.  Oﬀerer Processing of the SDP Answer

5.5.  Modifying the Session

6.  ICE Considerations

7.  TLS Considerations

8.  SIP Considerations

9.  RFC Updates

9.1.  General

9.2.  Update to RFC 5763

9.2.1.  Update to Section 1

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

9.2.2.  Update to Section 5

9.2.3.  Update to Section 6.6

9.2.4.  Update to Section 6.7.1

9.3.  Update to RFC 7345

9.3.1.  Update to Section 4

9.3.2.  Update to Section 5.2.1

9.3.3.  Update to Section 9.1

10. Security Considerations

11. IANA Considerations

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 deﬁnes Session Description Protocol (SDP) oﬀer/answer procedures for Secure Real-

[RFC5763]
time Transport Protocol using Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS-SRTP).
deﬁnes SDP oﬀer/answer procedures for UDP Transport Layer over Datagram Transport Layer
Security (UDPTL-DTLS). This speciﬁcation deﬁnes general oﬀer/answer procedures for DTLS,
based on the procedures in
then reference this speciﬁcation, in order to ensure that the DTLS aspects are common among all
usages. Having common procedures is essential when multiple usages share the same DTLS
. This document updates
association
SDP oﬀer/answer procedures with a reference to this speciﬁcation.

. Other speciﬁcations, deﬁning speciﬁc DTLS usages, can

 by replacing common

[RFC7345]

[RFC7345]

[RFC5763]

[RFC8843]

[RFC5763]

 and

,
[RFC5763] [RFC4474]

NOTE: Since the publication of
. The updating of the references (and the associated procedures) within
[RFC8224]
 is outside the scope of this document. However, implementers of
[RFC5763]
 applications are encouraged to implement
[RFC5763]
.
[RFC4474]

 has been obsoleted by

 instead of

[RFC8224]

[RFC5763]

As deﬁned in
parameters are changed. Transport parameter change is not well deﬁned when Interactive
Connectivity Establishment (ICE)

 is used. One possible way to determine a transport

 be established when transport

, a new DTLS association

[RFC8445]

MUST

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

[RFC8445]

[RFC8445]

 change, but the ufrag value is changed both when ICE is

change is based on ufrag
negotiated and when ICE restart
DTLS association to be established, but previously there was no way to explicitly indicate in an
SDP oﬀer or answer whether a new DTLS association was required. To solve that problem, this
document deﬁnes a new SDP attribute, "tls-id". The pair of SDP "tls-id" attribute values (the
attribute values of the oﬀerer and the answerer) uniquely identiﬁes the DTLS association.
Providing a new value of the "tls-id" attribute in an SDP oﬀer or answer can be used to indicate
whether a new DTLS association is to be established.

 occurs. These events do not always require a new

 and

[RFC8122]

The SDP "tls-id" attribute can be speciﬁed when negotiating a Transport Layer Security (TLS)
connection, using the procedures in this document in conjunction with the procedures in
[RFC5763]
identify the negotiated TLS connection. The unique value can be used, for example, within TLS
protocol extensions to diﬀerentiate between multiple TLS connections and correlate those
connections with speciﬁc oﬀer/answer exchanges. The TLS-speciﬁc considerations are described
in Section 7.

. The unique combination of SDP "tls-id" attribute values can be used to

2.  Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Establishing a New DTLS Association

3.1.  General

A new DTLS association must be established between two endpoints after a successful SDP oﬀer/
answer exchange in the following cases:

•

The negotiated DTLS setup roles change; or

•

One or more ﬁngerprint values are modiﬁed, added, or removed in either an SDP oﬀer or
answer; or

•

The intent to establish a new DTLS association is explicitly signaled using SDP, by changing
the value of the SDP "tls-id" attribute deﬁned in this document;

NOTE: The ﬁrst two items above are based on the procedures in
speciﬁcation adds the support for explicit signaling using the SDP "tls-id" attribute.

[RFC5763]

. This

A new DTLS association can only be established as a result of the successful SDP oﬀer/answer
exchange. Whenever an entity determines that a new DTLS association is required, the entity
MUST

 initiate an SDP oﬀer/answer exchange, following the procedures in Section 5.

The sections below describe typical cases where a new DTLS association needs to be established.

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

In this document, a "new DTLS association" between two endpoints refers to either an initial
DTLS association (when no DTLS association is currently established between the endpoints) or a
DTLS association replacing a previously established one.

3.2.  Change of Local Transport Parameters

If an endpoint modiﬁes its local transport parameters (address and/or port), and if the
modiﬁcation requires a new DTLS association, the endpoint
attribute value (see Section 4).

MUST

 change its local SDP "tls-id"

If the underlying transport protocol prohibits a DTLS association from spanning multiple 5-
tuples (transport/source address/source port/destination address/destination port), and if the 5-
 change its local SDP "tls-id" attribute value (see Section 4).
tuple is changed, the endpoint
An example of such a case is when DTLS is carried over the Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP), as described in

[RFC6083]

MUST

.

3.3.  Change of ICE ufrag Value

If an endpoint uses ICE and modiﬁes a local ufrag value, and if the modiﬁcation requires a new
 change its local SDP "tls-id" attribute value (see Section 4).
DTLS association, the endpoint

MUST

4.  SDP "tls-id" Attribute

The pair of SDP "tls-id" attribute values (the attribute values of the oﬀerer and the answerer)
uniquely identiﬁes the DTLS association or TLS connection.

Name:

tls-id

Value:

tls-id-value

Usage Level:

media

Charset Dependent:

no

Default Value:

N/A

Syntax:

tls-id-value = 20*255(tls-id-char)
tls-id-char = ALPHA / DIGIT / "+" / "/" / "-" / "_"

<ALPHA and DIGIT deﬁned in RFC 4566>

Example:

a=tls-id:abc3de65cddef001be82

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

Every time an endpoint requests to establish a new DTLS association, the endpoint
generate a new local "tls-id" attribute value. An unchanged local "tls-id" attribute value, in
combination with non-changed ﬁngerprints, indicates that the endpoint intends to reuse the
existing DTLS association.

MUST

The "tls-id" attribute value
least 120 bits of randomness.

MUST

 be generated using a strong random function and include at

MUST

 explicitly include it in SDP oﬀers and answers. If an oﬀer or answer does not

No default value is deﬁned for the SDP "tls-id" attribute. Implementations that wish to use the
attribute
contain a "tls-id" attribute (this could happen if the oﬀerer or answerer represents an existing
implementation that has not been updated to support the "tls-id" attribute), a modiﬁcation of one
 be treated as an indication that an endpoint wants
or more of the following characteristics
to establish a new DTLS association, unless there is another mechanism to explicitly indicate that
a new DTLS association is to be established:

MUST

•

DTLS setup role; or

•

ﬁngerprint set; or

•

local transport parameters

NOTE: A modiﬁcation of the ufrag value is not treated as an indication that an
endpoint wants to establish a new DTLS association. In order to indicate that a new
DTLS association is to be established, one or more of the characteristics listed above
have to be modiﬁed.

[RFC8859]

The mux category
attribute value applies to all media descriptions being multiplexed
described in
"m=" line representing the oﬀerer/answerer BUNDLE tag.

 for the "tls-id" attribute is "IDENTICAL", which means that the
. However, as

, in order to avoid duplication, the attribute is only associated with the

[RFC8843]

[RFC8843]

For RTP-based media, the "tls-id" attribute applies to the whole associated media description. The
attribute

 be deﬁned per source (using the SDP "ssrc" attribute

[RFC5576]

MUST NOT

).

The SDP oﬀer/answer procedures
5.

[RFC3264]

 associated with the attribute are deﬁned in Section

5.  SDP Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

5.1.  General

This section deﬁnes the generic SDP oﬀer/answer procedures for negotiating a DTLS association.
Additional procedures (e.g., regarding usage of speciﬁc SDP attributes) for individual DTLS
usages (e.g., DTLS-SRTP) are outside the scope of this speciﬁcation and need to be speciﬁed in a
usage-speciﬁc document.

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

NOTE: The procedures in this section are generalizations of procedures ﬁrst
speciﬁed in the DTLS-SRTP document
, with the addition of usage of the
SDP "tls-id" attribute. That document is herein updated to make use of these new
procedures.

[RFC5763]

The procedures in this section apply to an SDP media description ("m=" line) associated with
DTLS-protected media/data.

When an oﬀerer or answerer indicates that it wants to establish a new DTLS association, it needs
to make sure that media packets associated with any previously established DTLS association
and the new DTLS association can be demultiplexed. In the case of an ordered transport (e.g.,
SCTP), this can be done simply by sending packets for the new DTLS association after all packets
associated with a previously established DTLS association have been sent. In the case of an
unordered transport, such as UDP, packets associated with a previously established DTLS
association can arrive after the answer SDP and the ﬁrst packets associated with the new DTLS
association have been received. The only way to demultiplex packets associated with a
previously established DTLS association and the new DTLS association is on the basis of the 5-
tuple. Because of this, if an unordered transport is used for the DTLS association, a new 3-tuple
(transport/source address/source port)
DTLS packets can be demultiplexed.

 be allocated by at least one of the endpoints so that

MUST

MUST

When an oﬀerer needs to establish a new DTLS association, and if an unordered transport (e.g.,
 allocate a new 3-tuple for the oﬀer in such a way that the oﬀerer
UDP) is used, the oﬀerer
can disambiguate any packets associated with the new DTLS association from any packets
associated with any other DTLS association. This typically means using a local address and/or
port, or a set of ICE candidates (see Section 6), which were not recently used for any other DTLS
association.

When an answerer needs to establish a new DTLS association, if an unordered transport is used,
and the oﬀerer did not allocate a new 3-tuple, the answerer
answer in such a way that it can disambiguate any packets associated with the new DTLS
association from any packets associated with any other DTLS association. This typically means
using a local address and/or port, or a set of ICE candidates (see Section 6), which were not
recently used for any other DTLS association.

 allocate a new 3-tuple for the

MUST

In order to negotiate a DTLS association, the following SDP attributes are used:

•

The SDP "setup" attribute, deﬁned in

[RFC4145]

, is used to negotiate the DTLS roles;

•

The SDP "ﬁngerprint" attribute, deﬁned in
ﬁngerprint values; and

[RFC8122]

, is used to provide one or more

•

The SDP "tls-id" attribute, deﬁned in this speciﬁcation, is used to identity the DTLS
association.

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

This speciﬁcation does not deﬁne the usage of the SDP "connection" attribute
negotiating a DTLS association. However, the attribute
used together with another protocol (e.g., SCTP or TCP) for which the usage of the attribute has
been deﬁned.

 be used if the DTLS association is

[RFC4145]

MAY

 for

Unlike for TCP and TLS connections, endpoints
"holdconn" value when negotiating a DTLS association.

MUST NOT

 use the SDP "setup" attribute

Endpoints

MUST

 support the hash functions as deﬁned in

[RFC8122]
.

The certiﬁcate received during the DTLS handshake
ﬁngerprint received in SDP "ﬁngerprint" attributes according to the procedures deﬁned in
. If ﬁngerprints do not match the hashed certiﬁcate, then an endpoint
[RFC8122]
the media session immediately (see

 match a certiﬁcate

[RFC6347] MUST

[RFC8122]

MUST

).

 tear down

SDP oﬀerers and answerers might reuse certiﬁcates across multiple DTLS associations, and
provide identical ﬁngerprint values for each DTLS association. The combination of the SDP "tls-
id" attribute values of the SDP oﬀerer and answerer identiﬁes each individual DTLS association.

NOTE: There are cases where the SDP "tls-id" attribute value generated by the
oﬀerer will end up being used for multiple DTLS associations. For that reason, the
combination of the attribute values of the oﬀerer and answerer is needed in order
to identity a DTLS association. An example of such a case is where the oﬀerer sends
an updated oﬀer (Section 5.5) without modifying its attribute value, but the
answerer determines that a new DTLS association is to be created. The answerer
will generate a new local attribute value for the new DTLS association (Section 5.3),
while the oﬀerer will use the same attribute value that it used for the current
association. Another example is when the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
is used for signaling, and an oﬀer is forked to multiple answerers. The attribute
value generated by the oﬀerer will be used for DTLS associations established by
each answerer.

[RFC3261]

5.2.  Generating the Initial SDP Oﬀer

When an oﬀerer sends the initial oﬀer, the oﬀerer
[RFC4145]
according to the procedures in
"tls-id" attribute with a unique attribute value.

MUST
 with an "actpass" attribute value, as well as one or more SDP "ﬁngerprint" attributes
. In addition, the oﬀerer

 insert an SDP "setup" attribute

 insert in the oﬀer an SDP

[RFC8122]

MUST

As the oﬀerer inserts the SDP "setup" attribute with an "actpass" attribute value, the oﬀerer
be prepared to receive a DTLS ClientHello message
association is established by the answerer) before the oﬀerer receives the SDP answer.

 from the answerer (if a new DTLS

[RFC6347]

MUST

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

If the oﬀerer receives a DTLS ClientHello message, and a DTLS association is established before
the oﬀerer receives the SDP answer carrying the ﬁngerprint associated with the DTLS
association, any data received on the DTLS association before the ﬁngerprint
to be coming from an unveriﬁed source. The processing of such data and sending of data by the
oﬀerer to the unveriﬁed source is outside the scope of this document.

MUST

 be considered

5.3.  Generating the Answer

When an answerer sends an answer, the answerer
attribute according to the procedures in
[RFC4145]
. If the answerer determines, based on the criteria
according to the procedures in
[RFC8122]
speciﬁed in Section 3.1, that a new DTLS association is to be established, the answerer
MUST
insert in the associated answer an SDP "tls-id" attribute with a new unique attribute value. Note
that the oﬀerer and answerer generate their own local "tls-id" attribute values, and the
combination of both values identiﬁes the DTLS association.

MUST
 and one or more SDP "ﬁngerprint" attributes

 insert in the answer an SDP "setup"

If the answerer receives an oﬀer that requires establishment of a new DTLS association, and if
the answerer does not accept the establishment of a new DTLS association, the answerer
MUST
reject the "m=" lines associated with the suggested DTLS association

.
[RFC3264]

MUST

If an answerer receives an oﬀer that does not require the establishment of a new DTLS
association, and if the answerer determines that a new DTLS association is not to be established,
the answerer
assigned attribute value. In addition, the answerer
attribute value that does not change the previously negotiated DTLS roles, as well as one or more
SDP "ﬁngerprint" attributes values that do not change the previously sent ﬁngerprint set, in the
associated answer.

 insert in the associated answer an SDP "tls-id" attribute with the previously
 insert an SDP "setup" attribute with an

MUST

If the answerer receives an oﬀer that does not contain an SDP "tls-id" attribute, the answerer
MUST NOT

 insert a "tls-id" attribute in the answer.

If a new DTLS association is to be established, and if the answerer inserts an SDP "setup"
attribute with an "active" attribute value in the answer, the answerer
handshake

 by sending a DTLS ClientHello message towards the oﬀerer.

[RFC6347]

 initiate a DTLS

MUST

Even though an oﬀerer is required to insert an "SDP" setup attribute with an "actpass" attribute
value in initial oﬀers (Section 5.2) and subsequent oﬀers (Section 5.5), the answerer
to receive initial and subsequent oﬀers with other attribute values, in order to be backward
compatible with older implementations that might insert other attribute values in initial and
subsequent oﬀers.

MUST

 be able

5.4.  Oﬀerer Processing of the SDP Answer

When an oﬀerer receives an answer that establishes a new DTLS association based on criteria
deﬁned in Section 3.1, if the oﬀerer becomes DTLS client (based on the value of the SDP "setup"
attribute value
 establish a DTLS association. If the oﬀerer becomes
DTLS server, it

 wait for the answerer to establish the DTLS association.

[RFC4145]
MUST

), the oﬀerer

MUST

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

If the oﬀerer indicated a desire to reuse an existing DTLS association, and the answerer does not
request the establishment of a new DTLS association, the oﬀerer will continue to use the
previously established DTLS association.

A new DTLS association can be established based on changes in either an SDP oﬀer or answer.
When communicating with legacy endpoints, an oﬀerer can receive an answer that includes the
same ﬁngerprint set and setup role. A new DTLS association will still be established if such an
answer is received as a response to an oﬀer that requested the establishment of a new DTLS
association, as the transport parameters would have been changed in the oﬀer.

5.5.  Modifying the Session

When an oﬀerer sends a subsequent oﬀer, if the oﬀerer wants to establish a new DTLS
association, the oﬀerer
attribute value, as well as or more SDP "ﬁngerprint" attributes according to the procedures in
[RFC8122]
 insert in the oﬀer an SDP "tls-id" attribute with a new
unique attribute value.

 insert an SDP "setup" attribute

. In addition, the oﬀerer

 with an "actpass"

[RFC4145]

MUST

MUST

When an oﬀerer sends a subsequent oﬀer and does not want to establish a new DTLS
association, if a previously established DTLS association exists, the oﬀerer
oﬀer an SDP "setup" attribute with an "actpass" attribute value, and one or more SDP
"ﬁngerprint" attributes with attribute values that do not change the previously sent ﬁngerprint
set. In addition, the oﬀerer
attribute value in the oﬀer.

 insert an SDP "tls-id" attribute with the previously assigned

 insert in the

MUST

MUST

NOTE: When a new DTLS association is being established, each endpoint needs to be
prepared to receive data on both the new and old DTLS associations as long as both
are alive.

6.  ICE Considerations

When the Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) mechanism
 is used, the ICE
connectivity checks are performed before the DTLS handshake begins. Note that if aggressive
nomination mode is used, multiple candidate pairs may be marked valid before ICE ﬁnally
converges on a single candidate pair.

[RFC8445]

NOTE: Aggressive nomination has been deprecated from ICE but must still be
supported for backwards compatibility reasons

[RFC8445]
.

MUST

When a new DTLS association is established over an unordered transport, in order to
disambiguate any packets associated with the newly established DTLS association, at least one of
 allocate a completely new set of ICE candidates that were not recently used
the endpoints
for any other DTLS association. This means the answerer cannot initiate a new DTLS association
unless the oﬀerer initiated ICE restart
association, it needs to initiate an ICE restart and a new oﬀer/answer exchange on its own.
However, an ICE restart does not by default require a new DTLS association to be established.

. If the answerer wants to initiate a new DTLS

[RFC8445]

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

NOTE: Simple Traversal of the UDP Protocol through NAT (STUN) packets are sent
directly over UDP, not over DTLS.
packets from DTLS packets and SRTP packets.

 describes how to demultiplex STUN

[RFC7983]

Each ICE candidate associated with a component is treated as being part of the same DTLS
association. Therefore, from a DTLS perspective, it is not considered a change of local transport
parameters when an endpoint switches between those ICE candidates.

7.  TLS Considerations

The procedures in this document can also be used for negotiating and establishing a TLS
connection, with the restriction described below.

[RFC4145]

, the SDP "connection" attribute is used to indicate whether to establish

As speciﬁed in
a new TLS connection. An oﬀerer and answerer
value and the "tls-id" attribute value do not cause a conﬂict regarding whether a new TLS
connection is to be established or not.

 ensure that the "connection" attribute

MUST

NOTE: Even though the SDP "connection" attribute can be used to indicate whether a
new TLS connection is to be established, the unique combination of SDP "tls-id"
attribute values can be used to identity a TLS connection. The unique value can be
used e.g., within TLS protocol extensions to diﬀerentiate between multiple TLS
connections and correlate those connections with speciﬁc oﬀer/answer exchanges.
One such extension is deﬁned in

[RFC8844]

.

If an oﬀerer or answerer inserts an SDP "connection" attribute with a "new" value in the oﬀer/
answer and also inserts an SDP "tls-id" attribute, the value of the "tls-id" attribute
 be new
and unique.

MUST

If an oﬀerer or answerer inserts an SDP "connection" attribute with an "existing" value in the
oﬀer/answer, if a previously established TLS connection exists, and if the oﬀerer/answerer
previously inserted an SDP "tls-id" attribute associated with the same TLS connection in an oﬀer/
answer, the oﬀerer/answerer
MUST
assigned value in the oﬀer/answer.

 also insert an SDP "tls-id" attribute with the previously

If an oﬀerer or answerer receives an oﬀer/answer with conﬂicting attribute values, the oﬀerer/
answerer

 process the oﬀer/answer as misformed.

MUST

MUST NOT

An endpoint
the peer. Therefore, to avoid ambiguity, both oﬀerers and answerers
"connection" attribute in conjunction with the "tls-id" attribute.

 make assumptions regarding the support of the SDP "tls-id" attribute by

MUST

 always use the

NOTE: As deﬁned in
present, the implicit default value is "new".

[RFC4145]

, if the SDP "connection" attribute is not explicitly

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

The SDP example below is based on the example in
the SDP "tls-id" attribute.

Section 3.4 of [RFC8122]

, with the addition of

m=image 54111 TCP/TLS t38
c=IN IP4 192.0.2.2
a=tls-id:abc3de65cddef001be82
a=setup:passive
a=connection:new
a=fingerprint:SHA-256 \
 12:DF:3E:5D:49:6B:19:E5:7C:AB:4A:AD:B9:B1:3F:82:18:3B:54:02:12:DF: \
 3E:5D:49:6B:19:E5:7C:AB:4A:AD
a=fingerprint:SHA-1 \
 4A:AD:B9:B1:3F:82:18:3B:54:02:12:DF:3E:5D:49:6B:19:E5:7C:AB

8.  SIP Considerations

[RFC3261]
When the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)
[RFC3261]
establishing a multimedia session, dialogs
multiple callees. This is referred to as forking. If forking occurs, separate DTLS associations will
be established between the caller and each callee.

 is used as the signal protocol for
 might be established between the caller and

When forking occurs, an SDP oﬀerer can receive DTLS ClientHello messages and SDP answers
from multiple remote locations. Because of this, the oﬀerer might have to wait for multiple SDP
answers (from diﬀerent remote locations) until it receives a certiﬁcate ﬁngerprint that matches
the certiﬁcate associated with a speciﬁc DTLS handshake. The oﬀerer
ﬁngerprint mismatch until it determines that it will not receive SDP answers from any additional
remote locations.

 declare a

MUST NOT

It is possible to send an INVITE request that does not contain an SDP oﬀer. Such an INVITE
request is often referred to as an "empty INVITE" or an "oﬀerless INVITE". The receiving
endpoint will include the SDP oﬀer in a response to the request. When the endpoint generates
such an SDP oﬀer, if a previously established DTLS association exists, the oﬀerer
SDP "tls-id" attribute and one or more SDP "ﬁngerprint" attributes, with previously assigned
attribute values. If a previously established DTLS association does not exist, the oﬀer
 be
generated based on the same rules as a new oﬀer (see Section 5.2). Regardless of the previous
existence of a DTLS association, the SDP "setup" attribute
rules deﬁned in
to the third-party call-control considerations described in

. Furthermore, if ICE is used, ICE restart

 be included according to the

.
[RFC8839]

[RFC4145]

 be initiated, according

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

 insert an

9.  RFC Updates

9.1.  General

This section updates speciﬁcations that use DTLS-protected media, in order to reﬂect the
procedures deﬁned in this speciﬁcation.

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

9.2.  Update to RFC 5763

9.2.1.  Update to Section 1

The reference to

[RFC4572]

 is replaced with a reference to

[RFC8122]

.

9.2.2.  Update to Section 5

The text in
generic SDP oﬀer/answer procedures for DTLS with a reference to this speciﬁcation:

 ("Establishing a Secure Channel") is modiﬁed by replacing

[RFC5763], Section 5

NEW TEXT:

The two endpoints in the exchange present their identities as part of the DTLS
handshake procedure using certiﬁcates. This document uses certiﬁcates in the same
style as described in "Connection-Oriented Media Transport over the Transport Layer
Security (TLS) Protocol in the Session Description Protocol (SDP)"

[RFC8122]
.

MAY

If self-signed certiﬁcates are used, the content of the "subjectAltName" attribute inside
 use the uniform resource identiﬁer (URI) of the user. This is useful
the certiﬁcate
for debugging purposes only and is not required to bind the certiﬁcate to one of the
communication endpoints. The integrity of the certiﬁcate is ensured through the
"ﬁngerprint" attribute in the SDP.

The generation of public/private key pairs is relatively expensive. Endpoints are not
required to generate certiﬁcates for each session.

The oﬀer/answer model, deﬁned in
Initiation Protocol (SIP)

[RFC3261]

[RFC3264]

, is used by protocols like the Session

 to set up multimedia sessions.

 send the SIP message containing the oﬀer to the oﬀerer's SIP proxy over an

When an endpoint wishes to set up a secure media session with another endpoint, it
sends an oﬀer in a SIP message to the other endpoint. This oﬀer includes, as part of the
SDP payload, a ﬁngerprint of a certiﬁcate that the endpoint wants to use. The endpoint
SHOULD
integrity-protected channel. The proxy
to the procedures outlined in
[RFC4474]
message, it can verify the identity of the sender using the Identity header ﬁeld. Since the
Identity header ﬁeld is a digital signature across several SIP header ﬁelds, in addition to
the body of the SIP message, the receiver can also be certain that the message has not
been tampered with after the digital signature was applied and added to the SIP
message.

SHOULD
. When the far endpoint receives the SIP

 add an Identity header ﬁeld according

The far endpoint (answerer) may now establish a DTLS association with the oﬀerer.
Alternately, it can indicate in its answer that the oﬀerer is to initiate the DTLS
association. In either case, mutual DTLS certiﬁcate-based authentication will be used.
After completing the DTLS handshake, information about the authenticated identities,
including the certiﬁcates, is made available to the endpoint application. The answerer is

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

then able to verify that the oﬀerer's certiﬁcate used for authentication in the DTLS
handshake can be associated with a certiﬁcate ﬁngerprint contained in the oﬀer in the
SDP. At this point, the answerer may indicate to the end user that the media is secured.
The oﬀerer may only tentatively accept the answerer's certiﬁcate, since it may not yet
have the answerer's certiﬁcate ﬁngerprint

When the answerer accepts the oﬀer, it provides an answer back to the oﬀerer
containing the answerer's certiﬁcate ﬁngerprint. At this point, the oﬀerer can accept or
reject the peer's certiﬁcate, and the oﬀerer can indicate to the end user that the media is
secured.

Note that the entire authentication and key exchange for securing the media traﬃc is
handled in the media path through DTLS. The signaling path is only used to verify the
peers' certiﬁcate ﬁngerprints.

The oﬀerer and answerer
8842.

MUST

 follow the SDP oﬀer/answer procedures deﬁned in RFC

9.2.3.  Update to Section 6.6

The text in
oﬀer/answer procedures for DTLS with a reference to this speciﬁcation:

[RFC5763], Section 6.6

 ("Session Modiﬁcation") is modiﬁed by replacing generic SDP

NEW TEXT:

Once an answer is provided to the oﬀerer, either endpoint
modiﬁcation that
carried in either an INVITE or UPDATE request. The peers can reuse an existing DTLS
association or establish a new one, following the procedures in RFC 8842.

 request a session
 include an updated oﬀer. This session modiﬁcation can be

MAY

MAY

9.2.4.  Update to Section 6.7.1

The text in
procedures with a reference to this speciﬁcation:

[RFC5763], Section 6.7.1

 ("ICE Interaction") is modiﬁed by replacing the ICE

NEW TEXT:

The Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)
protected media are described in RFC 8842.

[RFC8445]

 considerations for DTLS-

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

9.3.  Update to RFC 7345

9.3.1.  Update to Section 4

[RFC7345], Section 4
The subsections (4.1 - 4.5) in
removed and replaced with the new text below:

 ("SDP Oﬀerer/Answerer Procedures") are

NEW TEXT:

An endpoint (i.e., both the oﬀerer and the answerer)
description ("m=" line) for each UDPTL-over-DTLS media stream and
TLS/UDPTL value (see Table 1) to the "proto" ﬁeld of the "m=" line.

MUST

 create an SDP media

MUST

 assign a UDP/

The oﬀerer and answerer
8842 in order to negotiate the DTLS association associated with the UDPTL-over-DTLS
media stream. In addition, the oﬀerer and answerer
.
deﬁned for UDPTL over UDP, as deﬁned in
[ITU.T38]

 follow the SDP oﬀer/answer procedures deﬁned in RFC

 use the SDP attributes

MUST

MUST

9.3.2.  Update to Section 5.2.1

The text in
with a reference to this speciﬁcation:

[RFC7345], Section 5.2.1

 ("ICE Usage") is modiﬁed by replacing the ICE procedures

NEW TEXT:

The Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)
protected media are described in RFC 8842.

[RFC8445]

 considerations for DTLS-

9.3.3.  Update to Section 9.1

A reference to

[RFC8122]

NEW TEXT:

 is added to

[RFC7345], Section 9.1

 ("Normative References"):

[RFC8122]

Lennox, J. and C. Holmberg, "Connection-Oriented Media Transport over
the Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol in the Session Description
Protocol (SDP)", RFC 8122, DOI 10.17487/RFC8122, March 2017,
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8122>

.

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

10.  Security Considerations

This speciﬁcation does not modify the security considerations associated with DTLS or the SDP
oﬀer/answer mechanism. In addition to the introduction of the SDP "tls-id" attribute, this
document simply clariﬁes the procedures for negotiating and establishing a DTLS association.

This speciﬁcation does not modify the actual TLS connection setup procedures. The SDP "tls-is"
attribute as such cannot be used to correlate an SDP oﬀer/answer exchange with a TLS
connection setup. Thus, this document does not introduce new security considerations related to
correlating an SDP oﬀer/answer exchange with a TLS connection setup.

11.  IANA Considerations

This document updates the "Session Description Protocol Parameters" registry as speciﬁed in
Section 8.2.2 of [RFC4566]
media-level attributes as follows.

. Speciﬁcally, it adds the SDP "tls-id" attribute to the table for SDP

Attribute name:

tls-id

Type of attribute:

Media-level

Subject to charset:

No

Purpose:

Indicates whether a new DTLS association or TLS connection is to be established/re-

established.

Appropriate Values:

See Section 4

Contact name:

Christer Holmberg

Mux Category:

IDENTICAL

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3261]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R.,
Handley, M., and E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
10.17487/RFC3261

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
, June 2002,

,
.

,

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

[RFC3264]

[RFC4145]

[RFC4566]

[RFC5763]

[RFC6347]

[RFC7345]

[RFC8122]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8843]

[RFC8859]

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

,

,

,

.

Yon, D. and G. Camarillo "TCP-Based Media Transport in the Session Description
,
Protocol (SDP)" RFC 4145 DOI 10.17487/RFC4145
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4145>

, September 2005,

<https://

,

.

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
, July 2006,
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

Fischl, J., Tschofenig, H., and E. Rescorla "Framework for Establishing a Secure
,
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) Security Context Using Datagram Transport
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 5763 DOI 10.17487/RFC5763
,
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5763>

, May 2010,

<https://

,

,
Rescorla, E. and N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
, January 2012,
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc6347>

,
.

,

Holmberg, C., Sedlacek, I., and G. Salgueiro "UDP Transport Layer (UDPTL) over
Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 7345 DOI 10.17487/RFC7345
August 2014,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7345>

,
,

,

Lennox, J. and C. Holmberg "Connection-Oriented Media Transport over the
Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol in the Session Description Protocol
(SDP)" RFC 8122 DOI 10.17487/RFC8122
editor.org/info/rfc8122>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

Holmberg, C., Alvestrand, H., and C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8843 DOI 10.17487/RFC8843
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8843>

,
,

,

,

Nandakumar, S. "A Framework for Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
,
Attributes When Multiplexing" RFC 8859 DOI 10.17487/RFC8859
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8859>

, January 2021,

12.2.  Informative References

[ITU.T38]

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

,

ITU-T "Procedures for real-time Group 3 facsimile communication over IP
networks" Recommendation T.38
REC-T.38/en>

, September 2010,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-

,

.

[RFC4474]

[RFC4572]

[RFC5576]

[RFC6083]

[RFC7983]

[RFC8224]

[RFC8839]

[RFC8844]

Peterson, J. and C. Jennings "Enhancements for Authenticated Identity
Management in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 4474 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4474

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4474>

, August 2006,

.

,

,

,

Lennox, J. "Connection-Oriented Media Transport over the Transport Layer
Security (TLS) Protocol in the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 4572 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC4572

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4572>

, July 2006,

.

,

Lennox, J., Ott, J., and T. Schierl "Source-Speciﬁc Media Attributes in the Session
,
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 5576 DOI 10.17487/RFC5576
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5576>

, June 2009,

,

,

.

Tuexen, M., Seggelmann, R., and E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer
Security (DTLS) for Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)" RFC 6083
DOI 10.17487/RFC6083

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6083>

, January 2011,

,

,

,

.

Petit-Huguenin, M. and G. Salgueiro "Multiplexing Scheme Updates for Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) Extension for Datagram Transport Layer
,
Security (DTLS)" RFC 7983 DOI 10.17487/RFC7983
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7983>

, September 2016,

,

.

,

Peterson, J., Jennings, C., Rescorla, E., and C. Wendt "Authenticated Identity
Management in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 8224 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8224

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8224>

, February 2018,

,

,

.

,

Petit-Huguenin, M., Nandakumar, S., Holmberg, C., Keränen, A., and R. Shpount
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer Procedures for Interactive
, January
,
Connectivity Establishment (ICE)" RFC 8839 DOI 10.17487/RFC8839
2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8839>

.

,

,

Thomson, M. and E. Rescorla "Unknown Key-Share Attacks on Uses of TLS with
,
the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8844 DOI 10.17487/RFC8844
January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8844>

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

Thanks to
Salgueiro
Campbell

Justin Uberti Martin Thomson Paul Kyzivat Jens Guballa Charles Eckel Gonzalo
, and
 performed an Area Director review.

,
 for providing comments and suggestions on the document.

Ben
 performed a Gen-ART review.

Paul Kyzivat

Paul Jones

,

,

,

,

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8842

SDP Oﬀer/Answer Considerations for DTLS and TLS

January 2021

Authors' Addresses

Christer Holmberg
Ericsson
Hirsalantie 11
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 christer.holmberg@ericsson.com

Roman Shpount
TurboBridge
4905 Del Ray Avenue, Suite 300
Bethesda MD 20814
,
United States of America
Email:

 rshpount@turbobridge.com

Holmberg & Shpount

Standards Track

Page 19

