Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8859
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
S. Nandakumar
Cisco

RFC 8859
A Framework for Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Attributes When Multiplexing

Abstract

The purpose of this speciﬁcation is to provide a framework for analyzing the multiplexing
characteristics of Session Description Protocol (SDP) attributes when SDP is used to negotiate the
usage of a single 5-tuple for sending and receiving media associated with multiple media
descriptions.

This speciﬁcation also categorizes the existing SDP attributes based on the framework described
herein.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8859

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Motivation

4.  SDP Attribute Analysis Framework

4.1.  Category: NORMAL

4.2.  Category: CAUTION

4.3.  Category: IDENTICAL

4.4.  Category: SUM

4.5.  Category: TRANSPORT

4.6.  Category: INHERIT

4.7.  Category: IDENTICAL-PER-PT

4.8.  Category: SPECIAL

4.9.  Category: TBD

5.  Analysis of Existing Attributes

5.1.  RFC 4566: SDP

5.2.  RFC 4585: RTP/AVPF

5.3.  RFC 5761: Multiplexing RTP and RTCP

5.4.  RFC 3312: Integration of Resource Management and SIP

5.5.  RFC 4574: SDP "label" Attribute

5.6.  RFC 5432: QoS Mechanism Selection in SDP

5.7.  RFC 4568: SDP Security Descriptions

5.8.  RFC 5762: RTP over DCCP

5.9.  RFC 6773: DCCP-UDP Encapsulation

5.10. RFC 5506: Reduced-Size RTCP in RTP Proﬁle

5.11. RFC 6787: Media Resource Control Protocol Version 2

5.12. RFC 8445: ICE

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

5.13. RFC 5285: RTP Header Extensions

5.14. RFC 3605: RTCP Attribute in SDP

5.15. RFC 5576: Source-Speciﬁc SDP Attributes

5.16. RFC 7273: RTP Clock Source Signaling

5.17. RFC 6236: Image Attributes in SDP

5.18. RFC 7197: Duplication Delay Attribute in SDP

5.19. RFC 7266: RTCP XR Blocks for MOS Metric Reporting

5.20. RFC 6285: Rapid Acquisition of Multicast RTP Sessions

5.21. RFC 6230: Media Control Channel Framework

5.22. RFC 6364: SDP Elements for FEC Framework

5.23. RFC 4796: "content" Attribute

5.24. RFC 3407: SDP Simple Capability Declaration

5.25. RFC 6284: Port Mapping between Unicast and Multicast RTP Sessions

5.26. RFC 6714: MSRP-CEMA

5.27. RFC 4583: SDP Format for BFCP Streams

5.28. RFC 5547: SDP Oﬀer/Answer for File Transfer

5.29. RFC 6849: SDP and RTP Media Loopback Extension

5.30. RFC 5760: RTCP with Unicast Feedback

5.31. RFC 3611: RTCP XR

5.32. RFC 5939: SDP Capability Negotiation

5.33. RFC 6871: SDP Media Capabilities Negotiation

5.34. RFC 7006: Miscellaneous Capabilities Negotiation in SDP

5.35. RFC 4567: Key Management Extensions for SDP and RTSP

5.36. RFC 4572: Comedia over TLS in SDP

5.37. RFC 4570: SDP Source Filters

5.38. RFC 6128: RTCP Port for Multicast Sessions

5.39. RFC 6189: ZRTP

5.40. RFC 4145: Connection-Oriented Media

5.41. RFC 6947: The SDP "altc" Attribute

5.42. RFC 7195: SDP Extension for Circuit-Switched Bearers in PSTN

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

5.43. RFC 7272: IDMS Using the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP)

5.44. RFC 5159: Open Mobile Alliance (OMA) Broadcast (BCAST) SDP Attributes

5.45. RFC 6193: Media Description for IKE in SDP

5.46. RFC 2326: Real Time Streaming Protocol

5.47. RFC 7826: Real-Time Streaming Protocol

5.48. RFC 6064: SDP and RTSP Extensions for 3GPP

5.49. RFC 3108: ATM SDP

5.50. 3GPP TS 183.063

5.51. 3GPP TS 24.229

5.52. ITU T.38

5.53. ITU-T Q.1970

5.54. ITU-T H.248.15

5.55. RFC 4975: The Message Session Relay Protocol

5.56. Historical Attributes

6.  bwtype Attribute Analysis

6.1.  RFC 4566: SDP

6.2.  RFC 3556: SDP Bandwidth Modiﬁers for RTCP Bandwidth

6.3.  RFC 3890: Bandwidth Modiﬁer for SDP

7.  rtcp-fb Attribute Analysis

7.1.  RFC 4585: RTP/AVPF

7.2.  RFC 5104: Codec Control Messages in AVPF

7.3.  RFC 6285: Unicast-Based Rapid Acquisition of Multicast RTP Sessions (RAMS)

7.4.  RFC 6679: ECN for RTP over UDP/IP

7.5.  RFC 6642: Third-Party Loss Report

7.6.  RFC 5104: Codec Control Messages in AVPF

8.  group Attribute Analysis

8.1.  RFC 5888: SDP Grouping Framework

8.2.  RFC 3524: Mapping Media Streams to Resource Reservation Flows

8.3.  RFC 4091: ANAT Semantics

8.4.  RFC 5956: FEC Grouping Semantics in SDP

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

8.5.  RFC 5583: Signaling Media Decoding Dependency in SDP

8.6.  RFC 7104: Duplication Grouping Semantics in the SDP

9.  ssrc-group Attribute Analysis

9.1.  RFC 5576: Source-Speciﬁc SDP Attributes

9.2.  RFC 7104: Duplication Grouping Semantics in the SDP

10. QoS Mechanism Token Analysis

10.1.  RFC 5432: QoS Mechanism Selection in SDP

11. k= Attribute Analysis

11.1.  RFC 4566: SDP

12. content Attribute Analysis

12.1.  RFC 4796

12.2.  3GPP TS 24.182

12.3.  3GPP TS 24.183

13. Payload Formats

13.1.  RFC 5109: RTP Payload Format for Generic FEC

14. Multiplexing Considerations for Encapsulating Attributes

14.1.  RFC 3407: cpar Attribute Analysis

14.2.  RFC 5939 Analysis

14.2.1.  Recommendation: Procedures for Potential Conﬁguration Pairing

14.3.  RFC 6871 Analysis

14.3.1.  Recommendation: Dealing with Payload Type Numbers

14.3.2.  Recommendation: Dealing with Latent Conﬁgurations

15. IANA Considerations

15.1.  New "Multiplexing Categories" Subregistry

15.2.  "Mux Category" Column for Subregistries

15.2.1.  Table: SDP bwtype

15.2.2.  Table: attribute-name

15.2.3.  Table: content SDP Parameters

15.2.4.  Table: Semantics for the "group" SDP Attribute

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

15.2.5.  Table: "rtcp-fb" Attribute Values

15.2.6.  Table: "ack" and "nack" Attribute Values

15.2.7.  Table: "depend" SDP Attribute Values

15.2.8.  Table: "cs-correlation" Attribute Values

15.2.9.  Table: Semantics for the "ssrc-group" SDP Attribute

15.2.10. Table: SDP/RTSP Key Management Protocol Identiﬁers

15.2.11. Table: Codec Control Messages

15.2.12. Table: QoS Mechanism Tokens

15.2.13. Table: SDP Capability Negotiation Option Tags

15.2.14. Table: Timestamp Reference Clock Source Parameters

15.2.15. Table: Media Clock Source Parameters

16. Security Considerations

17. References

17.1.  Normative References

17.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

SDP deﬁnes several attributes for capturing characteristics that apply to the individual media
descriptions (described by "m=" lines) and the overall multimedia session. Typically, diﬀerent
media types (audio, video, etc.) described using diﬀerent media descriptions represent separate
RTP sessions that are carried over individual transport-layer ﬂows. However,
way to use a single address:port combination (BUNDLE address) for receiving media associated
with multiple SDP media descriptions. This would, for example, allow the usage of a single set of
Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)
descriptions. This, in turn, has made it necessary to understand the interpretation and usage of
the SDP attributes deﬁned for the multiplexed media descriptions.

 candidates for multiple media

[RFC8843]

[RFC8445]

 deﬁnes a

Given the number of SDP attributes registered with the
attributes being deﬁned in the future, there is need for a framework to analyze these attributes
for their applicability in the transport multiplexing use cases.

 and the possibility of new

[IANA]

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

The document starts with providing the motivation for requiring such a framework. This is
followed by introduction to the SDP attribute analysis framework and procedures, following
[IANA]
.
which several sections apply the framework to the SDP attributes registered with the

2.  Terminology

5-tuple:

A collection of the following values: source address, source port, destination address,

destination port, and transport-layer protocol.

3GPP:

Third Generation Partnership Project; see

<https://www.3gpp.org>

 for more information

about this organization.

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Motivation

An eﬀort to reduce the number of necessary transport-level ﬂows is required because of the time
and complications involved in setting up Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)
transports for use by RTP based on ICE
 and Datagram Transport Layer Security
(DTLS). These procedures motivate conservation of ports bindings on the Network Address
Translators (NATs). This necessity has resulted in the deﬁnition of ways, such as that described in
, to multiplex RTP over a single transport ﬂow in order to preserve network resources
[RFC8843]
such as port numbers. This imposes further restrictions on applicability of the SDP attributes as
they are deﬁned today.

[RFC8445]

[RFC5763]

The speciﬁc problem is that there are attribute combinations that make sense when speciﬁed on
independent "m=" lines -- as with classical SDP -- that do not make sense when those "m=" lines
are then multiplexed over the same transport. To give an obvious example, ICE permits each
"m=" line to have an independently speciﬁed "ice-ufrag" attribute. However, if the media from
multiple "m=" lines is multiplexed over the same ICE component, then the meaning of media-
level "ice-ufrag" attributes becomes muddled.

At the time of writing this document, there are close to 250 SDP attributes registered with the
[IANA]
the validity/applicability of these attributes when used with transport multiplexing.

, and more will be added in the future. There is no clearly deﬁned procedure to establish

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

4.  SDP Attribute Analysis Framework

Attributes in an SDP session description can be deﬁned at the session level, media level, or
source level. Informally, there are various semantic groupings for these attributes. One such
grouping could be as follows:

•

Attributes related to media content such as media type, encoding schemes, and payload
types.

•

Attributes specifying media transport characteristics such as RTP/RTP Control Protocol
(RTCP) port numbers, network addresses, and QoS.

•

Metadata description attributes capturing session timing and origin information.

•

Attributes establishing relationships between media descriptions, such as grouping
framework

[RFC5888]

.

The proposed framework analyzes the SDP attributes usage under multiplexing and assigns each
SDP attribute to an appropriate multiplexing category. Since the multiplexing categories deﬁned
in this speciﬁcation are independent of any informal semantic groupings of the SDP attributes,
the categorizations assigned are normative.

4.1.  Category: NORMAL

The attributes in the NORMAL category can be independently speciﬁed when multiplexed, and
they retain their original semantics.

In the example given below, the direction and label attributes are independently speciﬁed for
audio and video "m=" lines. These attributes are not impacted by multiplexing these media
streams over a single transport-layer ﬂow.

     v=0
     o=alice 2890844526 2890844527 IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
     s=
     c=IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
     t=0 0
     m=audio 49172 RTP/AVP 99
     a=sendonly
     a=label:1
     a=rtpmap:99 iLBC/8000
     m=video 49172 RTP/AVP 31
     a=recvonly
     a=label:2
     a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000

4.2.  Category: CAUTION

It is not advisable to multiplex with the attributes in the CAUTION category, since their usage
under multiplexing might lead to incorrect behavior.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Example: Multiplexing media descriptions over a single Datagram Congestion Control Protocol
(DCCP) transport
 is not recommended, since DCCP is a connection-oriented protocol
and therefore doesn't allow multiple connections on the same 5-tuple.

[RFC5762]

     v=0
     o=bob 2890844527 2890844527 IN IP4 client.biloxi.example.com
     s=
     c=IN IP4 client.biloxi.example.com
     t=0 0
     m=video 5004 DCCP/RTP/AVP 99
     a=rtpmap:99 h261/9000
     a=dccp-service-code:SC=x52545056
     a=setup:passive
     a=connection:new
     m=video 5004 DCCP/RTP/AVP 100
     a=rtpmap:100 h261/9000
     a=dccp-service-code:SC=x5254504f
     a=setup:passive
     a=connection:new

4.3.  Category: IDENTICAL

The attributes and their associated values (if any) in the IDENTICAL category
across all the media descriptions under multiplexing.

MUST

 be repeated

Attributes such as rtcp-mux fall into this category. Since RTCP reporting is done per RTP session,
RTCP multiplexing
transported over a single 5-tuple.

 be enabled for both the audio and video "m=" lines if they are

MUST

     v=0
     o=bob 2890844527 2890844527 IN IP4 client.biloxi.example.com
     s=
     c=IN IP4 client.biloxi.example.com
     t=0 0
     m=audio 34567 RTP/AVP 97
     a=rtcp-mux
     m=video 34567 RTP/AVP 31
     a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
     a=rtcp-mux

Note: Even though IDENTICAL attributes must be repeated across all media descriptions under
multiplexing, they might not always be explicitly encoded across all media descriptions.
[RFC8843]
description.

 deﬁnes rules for when attributes and their values are implicitly applied to media

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

4.4.  Category: SUM

The attributes in the SUM category can be set as they are normally used, but software using them
 apply the sum of all the attributes being multiplexed instead
in the multiplexing scenario
of trying to use them independently. This is typically used for bandwidth or other rate-limiting
attributes to the underlying transport.

MUST

The software parsing the SDP sample below should use the aggregate Application Speciﬁc (AS)
bandwidth value from the individual media descriptions to determine the AS value for the
multiplexed session. Thus the calculated AS value would be 256+64 kilobits per second for the
given example.

      v=0
      o=test 2890844526 2890842807 IN IP4 client.biloxi.example.com
      c=IN IP4 client.biloxi.example.com
      t=0 0
      m=audio 49170 RTP/AVP 0
      b=AS:64
      m=video 51372 RTP/AVP 31
      b=AS:256

4.5.  Category: TRANSPORT

The attributes in the TRANSPORT category can be set normally for multiple items in a
multiplexed group, but the software
information is used for setting up the underlying transport.

 pick the one that's associated with the "m=" line whose

MUST

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

In the example below, the "a=crypto" attribute is deﬁned for both the audio and video "m=" lines.
The video media line's "a=crypto" attribute is chosen since its MID value (bar) appears ﬁrst in the
"a=group:BUNDLE" line. This is due to the BUNDLE grouping semantic
mandates that the values from the "m=" line corresponding to the mid appearing ﬁrst on the
"a=group:BUNDLE" line be considered for setting up the RTP transport.

[RFC8843]

, which

     v=0
     o=alice 2890844526 2890844527 IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
     s=
     c=IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
     t=0 0
     a=group:BUNDLE bar foo
     m=audio 49172 RTP/AVP 99
     a=mid:foo
     a=crypto:1 AES_CM_128_HMAC_SHA1_80
       inline:d0RmdmcmVCspeEc3QGZiNWpVLFJhQX1cfHAwJSoj|2^20|1:32
     a=rtpmap:99 iLBC/8000
     m=video 51374 RTP/AVP 31
     a=mid:bar
     a=crypto:1 AES_CM_128_HMAC_SHA1_80
       inline:EcGZiNWpFJhQXdspcl1ekcmVCNWpVLcfHAwJSoj|2^20|1:32
     a=rtpmap:96 H261/90000

4.6.  Category: INHERIT

The attributes in the INHERIT category encapsulate other SDP attributes or parameters. These
attributes inherit their multiplexing characteristics from the attributes or parameters they
encapsulate. Such attributes are deﬁned in
generic framework for indicating and negotiating capabilities in the SDP related to transport,
media, and media format.

,
[RFC3407] [RFC5939]

 as part of a

[RFC6871]

, and

The inheritance manifests itself when the encapsulated attribute or parameter is being
, for example, this occurs when a
leveraged. In the case of SDP Capability Negotiation
capability (encapsulating attribute) is used as part of a conﬁguration; the conﬁguration inherits

[RFC5939]

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

the multiplexing category of each of its constituent (encapsulated) attributes and parameters.
The inherited attributes
multiplexing point of view (see Section 14 for further details).

 be coherent in order to form a valid conﬁguration from a

MUST

       v=0
       o=alice 2890844526 2890844527 IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
       s=
       c=IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
       t=0 0
       m=video 3456 RTP/AVP 100
       a=rtpmap:100 VP8/90000
       a=fmtp:100 max-fr=30;max-fs=8040
       a=sqn: 0
       a=cdsc: 1 video RTP/AVP 100
       a=cpar: a=rtcp-mux
       m=video 3456 RTP/AVP 101
       a=rtpmap:101 VP8/90000
       a=fmtp:100 max-fr=15;max-fs=1200
       a=cdsc: 2 video RTP/AVP 101
       a=cpar: a=rtcp-mux

In this example, the category IDENTICAL is inherited by the cpar-encapsulated "rtcp-mux"
attribute.

4.7.  Category: IDENTICAL-PER-PT

The attributes in the IDENTICAL-PER-PT category deﬁne the RTP payload conﬁguration on the
basis of the payload type, and they
for a given RTP payload type when repeated. These payload types identify the same codec
conﬁguration as deﬁned in

 have identical values across all the media descriptions

Section 9.1 of [RFC8843]

 under this context.

MUST

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

In the SDP example below, Payload Types 96 and 97 are repeated across all the video "m=" lines,
and all the payload-speciﬁc parameters (for example, rtpmap and fmtp) are identical. (Note:
some line breaks are due to formatting only.)

     v=0
     o=alice 2890844526 2890844527 IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
     s=
     c=IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
     t=0 0
     a=group:BUNDLE cam1 cam2
     m=video 96 97
     a=mid:cam1
     a=rtpmap:96 H264/90000
     a=fmtp:96 profile-level-id=42400d; max-fs=3600; max-fps=3000;
     max-mbps=108000; max-br=1000
     a=rtpmap:97 H264/90000
     a=fmtp:97 profile-level-id=42400a; max-fs=240; max-fps=3000;
     max-mbps=7200; max-br=200
     m=video  96 97
     a=mid:cam2
     a=rtpmap:96 H264/90000
     a=fmtp:96 profile-level-id=42400d; max-fs=3600; max-fps=3000;
     max-mbps=108000; max-br=1000
     a=rtpmap:97 H264/90000
     a=fmtp:97 profile-level-id=42400a; max-fs=240; max-fps=3000;
     max-mbps=7200; max-br=200

4.8.  Category: SPECIAL

For the attributes in the SPECIAL category, the text in the speciﬁcation deﬁning the attribute
MUST

 be consulted for further handling when multiplexed.

As an example, for the attribute "extmap"
needs to be consulted to understand the multiplexing implications.

[RFC5285]

, the speciﬁcation deﬁning the extension

4.9.  Category: TBD

The attributes in the TBD category have not been analyzed under the proposed multiplexing
framework and

 be multiplexed.

SHOULD NOT

5.  Analysis of Existing Attributes

This section analyzes attributes listed in
them.

[IANA]

, grouped under the IETF document that deﬁnes

The "Level" column indicates whether the attribute is currently speciﬁed as:

•

S -- Session level

•

M -- Media level

•

B -- Both (Implies either a session level or a media level attribute)

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

•

SR -- Source-level (for a single SSRC)

[RFC5576]

The "Mux Category" column identiﬁes the multiplexing category assigned to each attribute, and
the "Notes" column captures additional informative details regarding the assigned category,
wherever necessary.

5.1.  RFC 4566: SDP

[RFC4566]
session announcement, session invitation, and other forms of multimedia session initiation.

 deﬁnes SDP that is intended for describing multimedia sessions for the purposes of

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

sendrecv

Not impacted

sendonly

Not impacted

recvonly

Not impacted

inactive

Not impacted

cat

ptime

maxptime

Not impacted

The attribute value
given codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a

The attribute value
given codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a

orient

Not impacted

framerate

quality

rtpmap

fmtp

The attribute value
given codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a

Not impacted

The attribute value
given codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a

The attribute value
given codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a

keywds

Not impacted

type

Not impacted

type:broadcast

Not impacted

type:H332

Not impacted

B

B

B

B

S

M

M

M

M

M

M

M

S

S

S

S

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

NORMAL

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

NORMAL

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

type:meeting

Not impacted

type:moderated Not impacted

type:test

Not impacted

tool

Not impacted

charset

Not impacted

sdplang

Not impacted

lang

Not impacted

Table 1: RFC 4566 Attribute Analysis

5.2.  RFC 4585: RTP/AVPF

S

S

S

S

S

B

B

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

 deﬁnes an extension to the Audio-visual Proﬁle (AVP) that enables receivers to

[RFC4585]
provide, statistically, more immediate feedback to the senders and thus allows for short-term
adaptation and eﬃcient feedback-based repair mechanisms to be implemented.

Name

Notes

rtcp-
fb

Since RTCP feedback attributes are scoped by payload
 be identical for a given PT
type (PT), their values
across the multiplexed "m=" lines.

MUST

Table 2: RFC 4585 Attribute Analysis

Level Mux

Category

M

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

5.3.  RFC 5761: Multiplexing RTP and RTCP

 discusses issues that arise when multiplexing RTP data packets and RTP Control

[RFC5761]
Protocol (RTCP) packets on a single UDP port. It describes when such multiplexing is and is not
appropriate, and it explains how the SDP can be used to signal multiplexed sessions.

Name

Notes

rtcp-
mux

RTP and RTCP multiplexing aﬀects the entire RTP
session.

Table 3: RFC 5761 Attribute Analysis

Level Mux

Category

M

IDENTICAL

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

5.4.  RFC 3312: Integration of Resource Management and SIP

 deﬁnes a generic framework for preconditions, which are extensible through IANA

[RFC3312]
registration. This document also discusses how network quality of service can be made a
precondition for establishment of sessions initiated by the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP). These
preconditions require that the participant reserve network resources before continuing with the
session.

Name Notes

Level Mux Category

des

Refer to notes below M

CAUTION

conf

Refer to notes below M

CAUTION

curr

Refer to notes below M

CAUTION

Table 4: RFC 3312 Attribute Analysis

NOTE: A mismatched set of preconditions across media descriptions results in session
establishment failures due to inability to meet the requested resource reservations.

5.5.  RFC 4574: SDP "label" Attribute

[RFC4574]
 deﬁnes a new SDP media-level attribute: "label". The "label" attribute carries a pointer
to a media stream in the context of an arbitrary network application that uses SDP. The sender of
the SDP document can attach the "label" attribute to a particular media stream or streams. The
application can then use the provided pointer to refer to each particular media stream in its
context.

Name Notes

Level Mux Category

label

Not impacted M

NORMAL

Table 5: RFC 4574 Attribute Analysis

5.6.  RFC 5432: QoS Mechanism Selection in SDP

[RFC5432]
model.

 deﬁnes procedures for negotiating QoS mechanisms using the SDP oﬀer/answer

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

qos-mech-send

Refer to Section 10.

qos-mech-recv

Refer to Section 10.

Table 6: RFC 5432 Attribute Analysis

B

B

TRANSPORT

TRANSPORT

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

5.7.  RFC 4568: SDP Security Descriptions

 deﬁnes an SDP cryptographic attribute for unicast media streams. The attribute

[RFC4568]
describes a cryptographic key and other parameters that serve to conﬁgure security for a unicast
media stream in either a single message or a roundtrip exchange.

Name

Notes

crypto

MUST

crypto attribute
 be the one that corresponds to the
"m=" line chosen for setting up the underlying transport
ﬂow.

Table 7: RFC 4568 Attribute Analysis

5.8.  RFC 5762: RTP over DCCP

Level Mux

Category

M

TRANSPORT

RTP is a widely used transport for real-time multimedia on IP networks. DCCP is a transport
protocol that provides desirable services for real-time applications.
mapping of RTP onto DCCP, along with associated signaling, such that real-time applications can
make use of the services provided by DCCP.

 speciﬁes a

[RFC5762]

Name

Notes

dccp-
service-
code

If RFC 6773 is not being used in addition to RFC5762,
the port in the "m=" line is a DCCP port. Being a
connection-oriented protocol, DCCP does not allow
multiple connections on the same 5-tuple.

Table 8: RFC 5762 Attribute Analysis

Current Mux

Category

M

CAUTION

NOTE: If RFC 6773 is being used in addition to RFC 5762, and the DCCP-in-UDP layer has
additional demultiplexing, then it may be possible to use diﬀerent DCCP service codes for each
DCCP ﬂow, given each uses a diﬀerent DCCP port. However, doing so might conﬂict with the
media type of the "m=" line. None of this is standardized yet, and it wouldn't work as explained.
Hence performing multiplexing is not recommended even in this alternate scenario.

5.9.  RFC 6773: DCCP-UDP Encapsulation

 speciﬁes an alternative encapsulation of DCCP, referred to as DCCP-UDP. This

[RFC6773]
encapsulation allows DCCP to be carried through the current generation of Network Address
Translation (NAT) middleboxes without modiﬁcation of those middleboxes.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

dccp-
port

Multiplexing is not recommended due to potential conﬂict
between the port used for DCCP encapsulation/
decapsulation and the RTP.

Table 9: RFC 6773 Attribute Analysis

Level Mux

Category

M

CAUTION

NOTE: RFC 6773 allows DCCP-UDP encapsulation, with the UDP port being the port of the DCCP
encapsulation/decapsulation service. This encapsulation allows arbitrary DCCP packets to be
encapsulated, and the DCCP port chosen can conﬂict with the port chosen for the RTP traﬃc.
Multiplexing several DCCP-in-UDP encapsulations on the same UDP port with no RTP traﬃc on
the same port implies collapsing several DCCP port spaces together. Whether or not this works
depends on the nature of DCCP encapsulation and ports choices; it is thus very application
dependent.

5.10.  RFC 5506: Reduced-Size RTCP in RTP Proﬁle

[RFC5506]
with reduced size.

 discusses beneﬁts and issues that arise when allowing RTCP packets to be transmitted

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

rtcp-rsize

Reduced-size RTCP aﬀects the entire RTP session. M

IDENTICAL

Table 10: RFC 5506 Attribute Analysis

5.11.  RFC 6787: Media Resource Control Protocol Version 2

The Media Resource Control Protocol Version 2 (MRCPv2) allows client hosts to control media
service resources such as speech synthesizers, recognizers, veriﬁers, and identiﬁers residing in
servers on the network. MRCPv2 is not a "stand-alone" protocol; it relies on other protocols, such
as the SIP, to coordinate MRCPv2 clients and servers and manage session between them, and SDP
to describe, discover, and exchange capabilities. It also depends on SIP and SDP to establish the
media sessions and associated parameters between the media source or sink and the media
server. Once this is done, the MRCPv2 exchange operates over the control session established
above, allowing the client to control the media-processing resources on the speech resource
server.

 deﬁnes attributes for this purpose.

[RFC6787]

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

resource Not impacted M

NORMAL

channel

Not impacted M

NORMAL

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

cmid

Not impacted M

NORMAL

Table 11: RFC 6787 Attribute Analysis

5.12.  RFC 8445: ICE

 describes a protocol for NAT traversal for UDP-based multimedia sessions established

[RFC8445]
with the oﬀer/answer model. ICE makes use of the Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN)
protocol and its extension, Traversal Using Relay NAT (TURN). ICE can be used by any protocol
utilizing the oﬀer/answer model, such as the SIP.

Name

Notes

Level Mux

Category

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

TRANSPORT

TRANSPORT

S

S

S

B

B

ice-lite

Not impacted

ice-options

Not impacted

ice-mismatch

Not impacted

ice-pwd

ice-ufrag

candidate

MUST

 be the one that corresponds to the

ice-pwd
"m=" line chosen for setting up the underlying
transport ﬂow.

MUST

 be the one that corresponds to the

ice-ufrag
"m=" line chosen for setting up the underlying
transport ﬂow.

MUST

ice candidate
 be the one that corresponds to
the "m=" line chosen for setting up the underlying
transport ﬂow.

M

TRANSPORT

remote-
candidates

ice remote candidate
MUST
corresponds to the "m=" line chosen for setting up
the underlying transport ﬂow.

 be the one that

M

TRANSPORT

ice2

Not impacted

S

NORMAL

Table 12: RFC 8445 Attribute Analysis

5.13.  RFC 5285: RTP Header Extensions

 provides a general mechanism for using the header-extension feature of RTP. (Note:
 has been obsoleted by

[RFC5285]
[RFC5285]
.) It provides the option to use a small number of
small extensions in each RTP packet, where the universe of possible extensions is large and
registration is decentralized. The actual extensions in use in a session are signaled in the setup
information for that session.

[RFC8285]

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

extmap

Refer to the document deﬁning the speciﬁc RTP
extension.

Table 13: RFC 5285 Attribute Analysis

5.14.  RFC 3605: RTCP Attribute in SDP

Level Mux

Category

B

SPECIAL

Originally, SDP assumed that RTP and RTCP were carried on consecutive ports. However, this is
not always true when NATs are involved.
 speciﬁes an early mechanism for indicating
[RFC3605]
the RTCP port.

Name Notes

rtcp

RTCP port
 be the one that corresponds to the "m="
line chosen for setting up the underlying transport ﬂow.

MUST

Table 14: RFC 3605 Attribute Analysis

5.15.  RFC 5576: Source-Speciﬁc SDP Attributes

Level Mux

Category

M

TRANSPORT

[RFC5576]
 deﬁnes a mechanism for describing RTP media sources -- which are identiﬁed by their
synchronization source (SSRC) identiﬁers -- in SDP, to associate attributes with these sources and
express relationships among sources. It also deﬁnes several source-level attributes that can be
used to describe properties of media sources.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

ssrc

Refer to notes below.

ssrc-group

Refer to Section 9 for speciﬁc analysis of the
grouping semantics.

cname

Not impacted

previous-
ssrc

fmtp

Refer to notes below

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

M

M

SR

SR

SR

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

IDENTICAL-PER-
PT

Table 15: RFC 5576 Attribute Analysis

NOTE: If SSRCs are repeated across "m=" lines being multiplexed, they
same underlying RTP Source.

MUST

 all represent the

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

5.16.  RFC 7273: RTP Clock Source Signaling

[RFC7273]
signaling that identiﬁes the media clock sources in a multimedia session.

 speciﬁes SDP signaling that identiﬁes timestamp reference clock sources and SDP

Notes

Level Mux Category

Name

ts-refclk

Not impacted

mediaclk

Not impacted

ts-refclk:ntp

Not impacted

ts-refclk:ptp

Not impacted

ts-refclk:gps

Not impacted

ts-refclk:gal

Not impacted

ts-refclk:glonass

Not impacted

ts-refclk:local

Not impacted

ts-refclk:private

Not impacted

mediaclk:sender

Not impacted

mediaclk:direct

Not impacted

mediaclk:IEEE1722 Not impacted

Table 16: RFC 7273 Attribute Analysis

B

B

B

B

B

B

B

B

B

B

B

B

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

5.17.  RFC 6236: Image Attributes in SDP

 proposes a new generic session setup attribute to make it possible to negotiate

[RFC6236]
diﬀerent image attributes, such as image size. A possible use case is to make it possible for a low-
end handheld terminal to display video without the need to rescale the image, something that
may consume large amounts of memory and processing power. The document also helps to
maintain an optimal bitrate for video as only the image size that is desired by the receiver is
transmitted.

Name

Notes

imageattr

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

Level Mux Category

M

IDENTICAL-PER-
PT

Table 17: RFC 6236 Attribute Analysis

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

5.18.  RFC 7197: Duplication Delay Attribute in SDP

[RFC7197]
and the duplication delay in SDP.

 deﬁnes an attribute to indicate the presence of temporally redundant media streams

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

duplication-delay Not impacted

B

NORMAL

Table 18: RFC 7197 Attribute Analysis

5.19.  RFC 7266: RTCP XR Blocks for MOS Metric Reporting

[RFC7266]
 deﬁnes an RTCP Extended Report (XR) Block that includes two new segment types and
associated SDP parameters that allow the reporting of mean opinion score (MOS) metrics for use
in a range of RTP applications.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

calgextmap Not impacted

B

NORMAL

Table 19: RFC 7266 Attribute Analysis

5.20.  RFC 6285: Rapid Acquisition of Multicast RTP Sessions

 describes a method of using the existing RTP and RTCP machinery that reduces the

[RFC6285]
acquisition delay. In this method, an auxiliary unicast RTP session carrying the reference
information to the receiver precedes or accompanies the multicast stream. This unicast RTP ﬂow
can be transmitted at a faster-than-natural bitrate to further accelerate the acquisition. The
motivating use case for this capability is multicast applications that carry real-time compressed
audio and video.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

rams-updates Not recommended M

CAUTION

Table 20: RFC 6285 Attribute Analysis

5.21.  RFC 6230: Media Control Channel Framework

 describes a framework and protocol for application deployment where the application

[RFC6230]
programming logic and media processing are distributed. This implies that application
programming logic can seamlessly gain access to appropriate resources that are not co-located
on the same physical network entity. The framework uses SIP to establish an application-level
control mechanism between application servers and associated external servers such as media
servers.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name Notes

Level Mux Category

cfw-id Not impacted M

NORMAL

Table 21: RFC 6230 Attribute Analysis

5.22.  RFC 6364: SDP Elements for FEC Framework

 speciﬁes the use of SDP to describe the parameters required to signal the Forward

[RFC6364]
Error Correction (FEC) Framework Conﬁguration Information between the sender(s) and
receiver(s). This document also provides examples that show the semantics for grouping multiple
source and repair ﬂows together for the applications that simultaneously use multiple instances
of the FEC Framework.

Name

Notes

Level Mux

fec-source-
ﬂow

fec-repair-
ﬂow

repair-
window

Refer to the document deﬁning speciﬁc FEC
scheme.

Refer to the document deﬁning speciﬁc FEC
scheme.

Refer to the document deﬁning speciﬁc FEC
scheme.

Table 22: RFC 6364 Attribute Analysis

5.23.  RFC 4796: "content" Attribute

Category

SPECIAL

SPECIAL

SPECIAL

M

M

M

[RFC4796]
 deﬁnes a new SDP media-level attribute, "content". The "content" attribute deﬁnes the
content of the media stream to a more detailed level than the media description line. The sender
of an SDP session description can attach the "content" attribute to one or more media streams.
The receiving application can then treat each media stream diﬀerently (e.g., show it on a big or
small screen) based on its content.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

content Not impacted M

NORMAL

Table 23: RFC 4796 Attribute Analysis

5.24.  RFC 3407: SDP Simple Capability Declaration

[RFC3407]
compatible capability declaration mechanism.

 deﬁnes a set of SDP attributes that enables SDP to provide a minimal and backwards-

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

sqn

cdsc

cpar

Not impacted

Not impacted

Refer to Section 14

B

B

B

NORMAL

NORMAL

INHERIT

cparmin

Refer to notes below B

SPECIAL

cparmax

Refer to notes below B

SPECIAL

Table 24: RFC 3407 Attribute Analysis

NOTE: The attributes "a=cparmin" and "a=cparmax" deﬁne minimum and maximum numerical
values associated with the attributes described in "a=cpar".

Since the cpar attribute can either deﬁne a "b=" attribute or any "a=" attribute, the multiplexing
category depends on the actual attribute being encapsulated and the implications of the
numerical values assigned. Hence it is recommended to consult the speciﬁcation deﬁning
attributes "cparmin" and "cparmax" to further analyze their behavior under multiplexing.

5.25.  RFC 6284: Port Mapping between Unicast and Multicast RTP Sessions

 presents a port-mapping solution that allows RTP receivers to choose their own ports

[RFC6284]
for an auxiliary unicast session in RTP applications using both unicast and multicast services.
The solution provides protection against denial-of-service or packet ampliﬁcation attacks that
could be used to cause one or more RTP packets to be sent to a victim client.

Name

Notes

portmapping-
req

Not recommended if port mapping is required by
the application

Table 25: RFC 6284 Attribute Analysis

5.26.  RFC 6714: MSRP-CEMA

Level Mux

Category

M

CAUTION

 deﬁnes a Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP) extension, Connection Establishment

[RFC6714]
for Media Anchoring (CEMA). Support of this extension is optional. The extension allows
middleboxes to anchor the MSRP connection without the need for middleboxes to modify the
MSRP messages; thus, it also enables secure end-to-end MSRP communication in networks where
such middleboxes are deployed. This document also deﬁnes an SDP attribute, "msrp-cema", that
MSRP endpoints use to indicate support of the CEMA extension.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

msrp-cema

Refer to notes below M

TBD

Table 26: RFC 6714 Attribute Analysis

Section 9 of [RFC8843]

NOTE: As per
procedures for multiplexing/demultiplexing MSRP ﬂows over a single 5-tuple. Once such a
speciﬁcation is available, the assignments of multiplexing categories for the attributes in this
section could be revisited.

, there exists no publicly available speciﬁcation that deﬁnes

5.27.  RFC 4583: SDP Format for BFCP Streams

[RFC4583]
 speciﬁes how to describe Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP) streams in SDP
descriptions. User agents using the oﬀer/answer model to establish BFCP streams use this format
in their oﬀers and answers.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

ﬂoorctrl

Refer to notes below M

conﬁd

Refer to notes below M

userid

Refer to notes below M

ﬂoorid

Refer to notes below M

Table 27: RFC 4583 Attribute Analysis

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

[RFC4583]

 has been obsoleted by

NOTE:
this section, including the "Mux Category" values. However,
Category" values of the attributes.

[RFC8856]

, which redeﬁnes the SDP attributes listed in

[RFC8856]

 does not change the "Mux

Section 9 of [RFC8843]

NOTE: As per
procedures for multiplexing/demultiplexing BFCP streams over a single 5-tuple. Once such a
speciﬁcation is available, the assignments of multiplexing categories for the attributes in this
section could be revisited.

, there exists no publicly available speciﬁcation that deﬁnes

5.28.  RFC 5547: SDP Oﬀer/Answer for File Transfer

[RFC5547]
endpoints by using the SDP oﬀer/answer model speciﬁed in

 provides a mechanism to negotiate the transfer of one or more ﬁles between two

[RFC3264]

.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

ﬁle-selector

Refer to notes below M

ﬁle-transfer-id

Refer to notes below M

TBD

TBD

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

ﬁle-disposition

Refer to notes below M

ﬁle-date

Refer to notes below M

ﬁle-icon

Refer to notes below M

ﬁle-range

Refer to notes below M

Table 28: RFC 5547 Attribute Analysis

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

Section 9 of [RFC8843]

NOTE: As per
procedures for multiplexing/demultiplexing MSRP ﬂows over a single 5-tuple. Once such a
speciﬁcation is available, the assignments of multiplexing categories for attributes in this section
could be revisited.

, there exists no publicly available speciﬁcation that deﬁnes

5.29.  RFC 6849: SDP and RTP Media Loopback Extension

[RFC6849]
 adds new SDP media types and attributes that enable establishment of media sessions
where the media is looped back to the transmitter. Such media sessions will serve as monitoring
and troubleshooting tools by providing the means for measurement of more advanced Voice
over IP (VoIP), real-time text, and Video over IP performance metrics.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

loopback rtp-pkt-
loopback

loopback rtp-media-
loopback

The attribute value
given codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be same for a

The attribute value
given codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be same for a

loopback-source

Not impacted

loopback-mirror

Not impacted

Table 29: RFC 6849 Analysis

M

M

M

M

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

NORMAL

NORMAL

5.30.  RFC 5760: RTCP with Unicast Feedback

 speciﬁes an extension to RTCP to use unicast feedback to a multicast sender. The

[RFC5760]
proposed extension is useful for single-source multicast sessions such as source-speciﬁc multicast
(SSM) communication where the traditional model of many-to-many group communication is
either not available or not desired.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

rtcp-
unicast

The attribute
multiplexed "m=" lines.

MUST

 be reported across all

Level Mux

Category

M

IDENTICAL

Table 30: RFC 5760 Attribute Analysis

5.31.  RFC 3611: RTCP XR

[RFC3611]
packets can be signaled by an application if it employs the Session Description Protocol (SDP).

 deﬁnes the Extended Report (XR) packet type for RTCP and deﬁnes how the use of XR

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

rtcp-xr Not impacted

B

NORMAL

Table 31: RFC 3611 Attribute Analysis

5.32.  RFC 5939: SDP Capability Negotiation

 deﬁnes a general SDP Capability Negotiation framework. It also speciﬁes how to

[RFC5939]
provide attributes and transport protocols as capabilities and negotiate them using the
framework. Extensions for other types of capabilities (e.g., media types and media formats) may
be provided in other documents.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

pcfg

Refer to Section 14  M

SPECIAL

acfg

Refer to Section 14  M

SPECIAL

csup

Not impacted

creq

Not impacted

B

B

NORMAL

NORMAL

acap

Refer to Section 14  B

INHERIT

tcap

Refer to Section 14  B

INHERIT

cap-v0 Not impacted

B

NORMAL

Table 32: RFC 5939 Attribute Analysis

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

5.33.  RFC 6871: SDP Media Capabilities Negotiation

SDP capability negotiation provides a general framework for indicating and negotiating
capabilities in SDP. The base framework only deﬁnes capabilities for negotiating transport
protocols and attributes.
can be used to negotiate media types and their associated parameters.

 extends the framework by deﬁning media capabilities that

[RFC6871]

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

rmcap

Refer to Section 14

omcap

Not impacted

mfcap

Refer to Section 14

mscap

Refer to Section 14

lcfg

Refer to Section 14

B

B

B

B

B

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

NORMAL

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

INHERIT

SPECIAL

sescap

Refer to notes below S

CAUTION

med-v0 Not impacted

S

NORMAL

Table 33: RFC 6871 Attribute Analysis

NOTE: The "sescap" attribute is not recommended for use with multiplexing. The reason is that it
requires the use of unique conﬁguration numbers across the entire SDP (per
opposed to within a media description only (per
identical conﬁguration numbers between multiplexed (bundled) media descriptions is the
default way of indicating compatible conﬁgurations in a bundle.

). As described in Section 14, the use of

[RFC6871]

[RFC5939]

) as

5.34.  RFC 7006: Miscellaneous Capabilities Negotiation in SDP

[RFC7006]
 extends the SDP Capability Negotiation framework to allow endpoints to negotiate
three additional SDP capabilities. In particular, this memo provides a mechanism to negotiate
bandwidth ("b=" line), connection data ("c=" line), and session or media titles ("i=" line for each
session or media).

Name

Notes

Level Mux

bcap

bcap-
v0

Inherit the category SUM as applicable to the "b="
attribute

Not impacted

Category

INHERIT

NORMAL

B

B

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux

ccap

ccap-
v0

The connection address type
the multiplexed "m=" lines.

MUST

 be identical across all

Not impacted

icap

Not impacted

icap-v0 Not impacted

Table 34: RFC 7006 Attribute Analysis

Category

IDENTICAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

B

B

B

B

5.35.  RFC 4567: Key Management Extensions for SDP and RTSP

 deﬁnes general extensions for SDP and Real-Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP) to carry

[RFC4567]
messages, as speciﬁed by a key management protocol, in order to secure the media. These
extensions are presented as a framework to be used by one or more key management protocols.
As such, their use is meaningful only when complemented by an appropriate key management
protocol.

Name

Notes

Level Mux

key-
mgmt

mikey

Key management protocol
the "m=" lines.

MUST

 be identical across all

Key management protocol
the "m=" lines.

MUST

 be identical across all

Category

IDENTICAL

IDENTICAL

B

B

Table 35: RFC 4567 Attribute Analysis

5.36.  RFC 4572: Comedia over TLS in SDP

 speciﬁes how to establish secure connection-oriented media transport sessions over
 has been obsoleted by

[RFC4572]
the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol using SDP. (Note:
[RFC8122]
semantics for an SDP "ﬁngerprint" attribute that identiﬁes the certiﬁcate that will be presented
for the TLS session. This mechanism allows media transport over TLS connections to be
established securely, so long as the integrity of session descriptions is assured.

.) It deﬁnes a new SDP protocol identiﬁer, "TCP/TLS". It also deﬁnes the syntax and

[RFC4572]

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

ﬁngerprint

ﬁngerprint value
the "m=" line chosen for setting up the underlying
transport ﬂow.

 be the one that corresponds to

MUST

Level Mux

Category

B

TRANSPORT

Table 36: RFC 4572 Attribute Analysis

5.37.  RFC 4570: SDP Source Filters

 describes how to adapt SDP to express one or more source addresses as a source ﬁlter

[RFC4570]
for one or more destination "connection" addresses. It deﬁnes the syntax and semantics for an
SDP "source-ﬁlter" attribute that may reference either IPv4 or IPv6 address(es) as either an
inclusive or exclusive source list for either multicast or unicast destinations. In particular, an
inclusive source ﬁlter can be used to specify a source-speciﬁc multicast (SSM) session.

Name

Notes

source-
ﬁlter

The attribute
multiplexed "m=" lines.

MUST

 be repeated across all

Level Mux

Category

B

IDENTICAL

Table 37: RFC 4570 Attribute Analysis

5.38.  RFC 6128: RTCP Port for Multicast Sessions

SDP has an attribute that allows RTP applications to specify an address and a port associated
with the RTCP traﬃc. In RTP-based source-speciﬁc multicast (SSM) sessions, the same attribute is
used to designate the address and the RTCP port of the Feedback Target in the SDP description.
However, the RTCP port associated with the SSM session itself cannot be speciﬁed by the same
attribute to avoid ambiguity and thus is required to be derived from the "m=" line of the media
description. Deriving the RTCP port from the "m=" line imposes an unnecessary restriction.
[RFC6128]

 removes this restriction by introducing a new SDP attribute.

Level Mux

Category

MUST

 be identical across all

B

IDENTICAL

Name

Notes

multicast-
rtcp

Multicast RTCP port
the "m=" lines.

Table 38: RFC 6128 Attribute Analysis

5.39.  RFC 6189: ZRTP

[RFC6189]
key and parameters for establishing unicast SRTP sessions for VoIP applications.

 deﬁnes ZRTP, a protocol for media path Diﬃe-Hellman exchange to agree on a session

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

zrtp-
hash

The zrtp-hash attribute
MUST
to the "m=" line chosen for setting up the underlying
transport ﬂow.

 be the one that corresponds

Table 39: RFC 6189 Attribute Analysis

Level Mux

Category

M

TRANSPORT

5.40.  RFC 4145: Connection-Oriented Media

 describes how to express media transport over TCP using SDP. It deﬁnes the SDP "TCP"

[RFC4145]
protocol identiﬁer, the SDP "setup" attribute, which describes the connection setup procedure,
and the SDP "connection" attribute, which handles connection re-establishment.

Name

Notes

setup

connection

The setup attribute
to the "m=" line chosen for setting up the underlying
transport ﬂow.

 be the one that corresponds

MUST

The connection attribute
corresponds to the "m=" line chosen for setting up the
underlying transport ﬂow.

 be the one that

MUST

Level Mux

Category

B

B

TRANSPORT

TRANSPORT

Table 40: RFC 4145 Attribute Analysis

5.41.  RFC 6947: The SDP "altc" Attribute

 proposes a mechanism that allows the same SDP oﬀer to carry multiple IP addresses

[RFC6947]
of diﬀerent address families (e.g., IPv4 and IPv6). The proposed "altc" attribute solves the
backward-compatibility problem that plagued Alternative Network Address Types (ANAT) due to
their syntax.

Name Notes

altc

The IP address and port
MUST
to the "m=" line chosen for setting up the underlying
transport ﬂow.

 be the ones that correspond

Table 41: RFC 6947 Attribute Analysis

Level Mux

Category

M

TRANSPORT

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

5.42.  RFC 7195: SDP Extension for Circuit-Switched Bearers in PSTN

 describes use cases, requirements, and protocol extensions for using the SDP oﬀer/

[RFC7195]
answer model for establishing audio and video media streams over circuit-switched bearers in
the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN).

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

cs-correlation:callerid

Refer to notes below M

cs-correlation:uuie

Refer to notes below M

cs-correlation:dtmf

Refer to notes below M

cs-correlation:external

Refer to notes below M

Table 42: RFC 7195 Attribute Analysis

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

[RFC7195]

 deﬁnes SDP attributes for establishing audio and video media streams over

NOTE:
circuit-switched bearers by deﬁning a new nettype value, "PSTN". However,
[RFC8843]
that deﬁnes procedures to multiplex media streams over nettype "PSTN", the multiplexing
categories for attributes in this section could be revisited.

 requires the "c=" line nettype value to be "IN". If there exists in future a speciﬁcation

Section 7.2 of

5.43.  RFC 7272: IDMS Using the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP)

[RFC7272]
used for achieving Inter-Destination Media Synchronization (IDMS).

 deﬁnes a new RTCP packet type and an RTCP Extended Report (XR) Block Type to be

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

rtcp-idms Not impacted M

NORMAL

Table 43: RFC 7272 Attribute Analysis

5.44.  RFC 5159: Open Mobile Alliance (OMA) Broadcast (BCAST) SDP
Attributes

[RFC5159]
and Content Protection for Mobile Broadcast Services" speciﬁcation.

 provides descriptions of SDP attributes used by the Open Mobile Alliance's "Service

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

bcastversion

Not impacted

stkmstream

Not impacted

S

B

NORMAL

NORMAL

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

SRTPAuthentication Needs further analysis M

SRTPROCTxRate

Needs further analysis M

Table 44: RFC 5159 Attribute Analysis

TBD

TBD

5.45.  RFC 6193: Media Description for IKE in SDP

[RFC6193]
 speciﬁes how to establish a media session that represents a virtual private network
using the Session Initiation Protocol for the purpose of on-demand media/application sharing
between peers. It extends the protocol identiﬁer of SDP so that it can negotiate use of the Internet
Key Exchange Protocol (IKE) for media sessions in the SDP oﬀer/answer model.

Name

Notes

Level Mux

ike-setup

Unlikely to use IKE in the context of
multiplexing

psk-ﬁngerprint

Unlikely to use IKE in the context of
multiplexing

ike-esp

Unlikely to use IKE in the context of
multiplexing

ike-esp-
udpencap

Unlikely to use IKE in the context of
multiplexing

Table 45: RFC 6193 Attribute Analysis

Category

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

B

B

B

B

5.46.  RFC 2326: Real Time Streaming Protocol

The Real Time Streaming Protocol, or RTSP, is an application-level protocol for control over the
delivery of data with real-time properties. RTSP provides an extensible framework to enable
controlled, on-demand delivery of real-time data, such as audio and video.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

etag

RFC 2326 is obsolete.

range

RFC 2326 is obsolete.

control

RFC 2326 is obsolete.

mtag

RFC 2326 is obsolete.

B

B

B

B

Table 46: RFC 2326 Attribute Analysis

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

[RFC2326]

 deﬁnes SDP attributes that are applicable in the declarative usage of SDP alone.

NOTE:
For the purposes of this document, only the oﬀer/answer usage of SDP is considered to be
mandated by

[RFC8843]

.

5.47.  RFC 7826: Real-Time Streaming Protocol

The Real-Time Streaming Protocol, or RTSP, is an application-level protocol for control over the
delivery of data with real-time properties. RTSP provides an extensible framework to enable
controlled, on-demand delivery of real-time data, such as audio and video.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

range

RTSP is not supported for RTP stream multiplexing.

control

RTSP is not supported for RTP stream multiplexing.

mtag

RTSP is not supported for RTP stream multiplexing.

Table 47: RFC 7826 Attribute Analysis

B

B

B

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

[RFC7826]

 deﬁnes SDP attributes that are applicable in the declarative usage of SDP alone.

NOTE:
For the purposes of this document, only the oﬀer/answer usage of SDP is considered to be
mandated by

[RFC8843]

.

5.48.  RFC 6064: SDP and RTSP Extensions for 3GPP

The Packet-switched Streaming Service (PSS) and the Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
(MBMS) deﬁned by 3GPP use SDP and RTSP with some extensions.
information about these extensions and registers the RTSP and SDP extensions with IANA.

[RFC6064]

 provides

Name

Notes

Level Mux

X-predecbufsize

X-initpredecbufperiod

X-initpostdecbufperiod

X-decbyterate

3gpp-videopostdecbufsize

Category

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

M

M

M

M

M

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

framesize

3GPP-Integrity-Key

3GPP-SDP-Auth

3GPP-SRTP-Conﬁg

alt

alt-default-id

alt-group

3GPP-Adaptation-Support

3GPP-Asset-Information

mbms-mode

mbms-ﬂowid

mbms-repair

3GPP-QoE-Metrics

3GPP-QoE-Metrics:Corruption duration

3GPP-QoE-Metrics:Rebuﬀering duration

Notes

Level Mux

Category

M

CAUTION

S

S

M

M

M

S

M

B

B

M

B

M

M

M

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux

3GPP-QoE-Metrics:Initial buﬀering duration

Refer to notes
below

3GPP-QoE-Metrics:Successive loss of RTP
packets

Refer to notes
below

3GPP-QoE-Metrics:Frame rate deviation

3GPP-QoE-Metrics:Jitter duration

3GPP-QoE-Metrics:Content Switch Time

3GPP-QoE-Metrics:Average Codec Bitrate

3GPP-QoE-Metrics:Codec Information

3GPP-QoE-Metrics:Buﬀer Status

Table 48: RFC 6064 Attribute Analysis

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Refer to notes
below

Category

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

M

M

M

M

B

M

M

M

[RFC6064]

 deﬁnes SDP attributes that are applicable in the declarative usage of SDP alone.

NOTE:
For the purposes of this document, only the oﬀer/answer usage of SDP is considered to be
mandated by

[RFC8843]

.

5.49.  RFC 3108: ATM SDP

[RFC3108]
and any associated ATM Adaptation Layer (AAL).

 describes conventions for using SDP described for controlling ATM bearer connections

Name

aalType

eecid

capability

qosClass

Notes

Level Mux Category

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

bcob

stc

upcc

Notes

Level Mux Category

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

atmQOSparms

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

atmTrfcDesc

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

abrParms

abrSetup

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

bearerType

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

lij

anycast

cache

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

bearerSigIE

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

aalApp

cbrRate

sbc

clkrec

fec

prtﬂ

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

structure

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

cpsSDUsize

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

aal2CPS

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

aal2CPSSDUrate

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

aal2sscs3661unassured

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

aal2sscs3661assured

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

aal2sscs3662

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

aal5sscop

atmmap

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

silenceSupp

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

ecan

gc

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

proﬁleDesc

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

vsel

dsel

fsel

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

onewaySel

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

codecconﬁg

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

isup_usi

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

uiLayer1_Prot

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

chain

Refer to notes below B

CAUTION

Table 49: RFC 3108 Attribute Analysis

NOTE: RFC 3108 describes conventions for using SDP for characterizing ATM bearer connections
using an AAL1, AAL2, or AAL5 adaptation layer. For AAL1, AAL2, and AAL5, bearer connections
can be used to transport single media streams. In addition, for AAL1 and AAL2, multiple media
streams can be multiplexed into a bearer connection. For all adaptation types (AAL1, AAL2, and
AAL5), bearer connections can be bundled into a single media group. In all cases addressed by
RFC 3108, a real-time media stream (voice, video, voiceband data, pseudowire, and others) or a
multiplex of media streams is mapped directly into an ATM connection. RFC 3108 does not
address cases where ATM serves as a low-level transport pipe for IP packets that can, in turn,
carry one or more real-time (e.g., VoIP) media sessions with a life cycle diﬀerent from that of the
underlying ATM transport.

5.50.  3GPP TS 183.063

[TISPAN]
Advanced Networking (TISPAN);

 describes Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Notes

Level Mux Category

Name

PSCid

Not impacted

bc_service

Not impacted

bc_program

Not impacted

bc_service_package Not impacted

S

S

S

S

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

Table 50: 3GPP TS 183.063 Attribute Analysis

5.51.  3GPP TS 24.229

[IP-CALL]
Session Description Protocol.

 speciﬁes an IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session Initial protocol and

Name

Notes

secondary-
realm

secondary-realm
MUST
to the "m=" line chosen for setting up the
underlying transport ﬂow.

 be the one that corresponds

Level Mux

Category

M

TRANSPORT

MUST

 be the one that corresponds to
visited-realm
the "m=" line chosen for setting up the underlying
transport ﬂow.

M

TRANSPORT

visited-
realm

omr-m-
cksum

Not impacted

omr-s-cksum Not impacted

omr-m-att

Not impacted

omr-s-att

Not impacted

omr-m-bw

Not impacted

omr-s-bw

Not impacted

omr-codecs

Not impacted

Table 51: 3GPP TS 24.229 Attribute Analysis

5.52.  ITU T.38

M

M

M

M

M

M

M

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

[T.38]

 deﬁnes procedures for real-time Group 3 facsimile communications over IP networks.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

T38FaxVersion

Refer to notes below M

T38MaxBitRate

Refer to notes below M

T38FaxFillBitRemoval

Refer to notes below M

T38FaxTranscodingMMR

Refer to notes below M

T38FaxTranscodingJBIG

Refer to notes below M

T38FaxRateManagement

Refer to notes below M

T38FaxMaxBuﬀer

Refer to notes below M

T38FaxMaxDatagram

Refer to notes below M

T38FaxUdpEC

Refer to notes below M

T38FaxMaxIFP

Refer to notes below M

T38FaxUdpECDepth

Refer to notes below M

T38FaxUdpFECMaxSpan

Refer to notes below M

T38ModemType

Refer to notes below M

T38VendorInfo

Refer to notes below M

Table 52: ITU T.38 Attribute Analysis

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

Section 9 of [RFC8843]

NOTE: As per
, there exists no publicly available speciﬁcation that deﬁnes
procedures for multiplexing/demultiplexing fax protocol ﬂows over a single 5-tuple. Once such a
speciﬁcation is available, the multiplexing category assignments for the attributes in this section
could be revisited.

5.53.  ITU-T Q.1970

[Q.1970]

 deﬁnes Bearer Independent Call Control (BICC) IP bearer control protocol.

Name Notes

ipbcp

ipbcp version identiﬁes the types of IP bearer control
protocol (IPBCP) message used in BICC (ITU-T Q.1901)
environment that are limited to single-media payload. Refer
to the pertinent ITU-T speciﬁcations while multiplexing.

Table 53: ITU-T Q.1970 Attribute Analysis

Level Mux

Category

S

SPECIAL

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

5.54.  ITU-T H.248.15

ITU-T H.248.15

[H.248.15]

 deﬁnes the Gateway Control Protocol SDP H.248 package attribute.

Name

Notes

Level Mux

Category

h248item It is only applicable for signaling the inclusion of H.248

B

SPECIAL

extension packages to a gateway via the local and remote
descriptors. The attribute itself is unaﬀected by
multiplexing, but the package referenced in a speciﬁc use
of the attribute can be impacted. Further analysis of each
package is needed to determine if there is an issue. This is
only a concern in environments using a decomposed
server/gateway with H.248 signaled between them. The
ITU-T will need to do further analysis of various packages
when they specify how to signal the use of multiplexing to
a gateway.

Table 54: ITU-T H.248.15 Attribute Analysis

5.55.  RFC 4975: The Message Session Relay Protocol

 describes the Message Session Relay Protocol, a protocol for transmitting a series of

[RFC4975]
related instant messages in the context of a session. Message sessions are treated like any other
media stream when set up via a rendezvous or session-creation protocol such as the Session
Initiation Protocol.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

accept-types

Refer to notes below M

accept-wrapped-types

Refer to notes below M

max-size

Refer to notes below M

path

Refer to notes below M

Table 55: RFC 4975 Attribute Analysis

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

Section 9 of [RFC8843]

NOTE: As per
procedures for multiplexing/demultiplexing MSRP ﬂows over a single 5-tuple. Once such a
speciﬁcation is available, the multiplexing categories assignments for the attributes in this
section could be revisited.

, there exists no publicly available speciﬁcation that deﬁnes

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

5.56.  Historical Attributes

This section speciﬁes analysis for the attributes that are included for historic usage alone by the
[IANA]

.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

rtpred1 Historic attributes M

CAUTION

rtpred2 Historic attributes M

CAUTION

Table 56: Historical Attribute Analysis

6.  bwtype Attribute Analysis

This section speciﬁes handling of speciﬁc bandwidth attributes when used in multiplexing
scenarios.

6.1.  RFC 4566: SDP

[RFC4566]
session announcement, session invitation, and other forms of multimedia session initiation.

 deﬁnes SDP that is intended for describing multimedia sessions for the purposes of

Name

Notes

bwtype:CT Not impacted

bwtype:AS

For media-level usage, the aggregate of individual
bandwidth values is considered.

Table 57: RFC 4566 bwtype Analysis

Level Mux

Category

NORMAL

SUM

S

B

6.2.  RFC 3556: SDP Bandwidth Modiﬁers for RTCP Bandwidth

 deﬁnes an extension to SDP to specify two additional modiﬁers for the bandwidth

[RFC3556]
attribute. These modiﬁers may be used to specify the bandwidth allowed for RTCP packets in an
RTP session.

Name

Notes

bwtype:RS

Session-level usage represents session aggregate, and
media-level usage indicates SUM of the individual
values while multiplexing.

Level Mux

Category

B

SUM

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

bwtype:RR

Session-level usage represents session aggregate, and
media-level usage indicates SUM of the individual
values while multiplexing.

Table 58: RFC 3556 bwtype Analysis

Level Mux

Category

B

SUM

6.3.  RFC 3890: Bandwidth Modiﬁer for SDP

[RFC3890]
 deﬁnes SDP Transport Independent Application Speciﬁc Maximum (TIAS) bandwidth
modiﬁer that does not include transport overhead; instead, an additional packet-rate attribute is
deﬁned. The transport-independent bitrate value together with the maximum packet rate can
then be used to calculate the real bitrate over the transport actually used.

Name

Notes

Level Mux

bwtype:TIAS

The usage of TIAS is not deﬁned under oﬀer/answer
usage.

maxprate

The usage of TIAS and maxprate is not well deﬁned
under multiplexing.

Table 59: RFC 3890 bwtype Analysis

Category

SPECIAL

SPECIAL

B

B

NOTE: The intention of TIAS is that the media-level bitrate is multiplied with the known per-
packet overhead for the selected transport and the maxprate value to determine the worst-case
bitrate from the transport to more accurately capture the required usage. Summing TIAS values
independently across "m=" lines and multiplying the computed sum with maxprate and the per-
packet overhead would inﬂate the value signiﬁcantly. Instead, performing multiplication and
adding the individual values is a more appropriate usage.

7.  rtcp-fb Attribute Analysis

This section analyzes rtcp-fb SDP attributes.

7.1.  RFC 4585: RTP/AVPF

 deﬁnes an extension to the Audio-Visual Proﬁle (AVP) that enables receivers to

[RFC4585]
provide, statistically, more immediate feedback to the senders; it thus allows for short-term
adaptation and implementation of eﬃcient feedback-based repair mechanisms.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

ack rpsi

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

ack app

nack

nack
pli

Feedback parameters
speciﬁc way when multiplexed.

MUST

 be handled in the app-

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

nack sli

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

nack
rpsi

nack
app

trr-int

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

Feedback parameters
speciﬁc way when multiplexed.

MUST

 be handled in the app

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

M

M

M

M

M

M

M

M

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

SPECIAL

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

SPECIAL

IDENTICAL-
PER-PT

Table 60: RFC 4585 Attribute Analysis

7.2.  RFC 5104: Codec Control Messages in AVPF

 speciﬁes a few extensions to the messages deﬁned in the Audio-Visual Proﬁle with

[RFC5104]
Feedback (AVPF). They are helpful primarily in conversational multimedia scenarios where
centralized multipoint functionalities are in use. However, some are also usable in smaller
multicast environments and point-to-point calls.

Name Notes

ccm

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

Level Mux Category

M

IDENTICAL-PER-
PT

Table 61: RFC 5104 Attribute Analysis

7.3.  RFC 6285: Unicast-Based Rapid Acquisition of Multicast RTP Sessions
(RAMS)

 describes a method of using the existing RTP and RTCP machinery that reduces the

[RFC6285]
acquisition delay. In this method, an auxiliary unicast RTP session carrying the Reference
Information to the receiver precedes or accompanies the multicast stream. This unicast RTP ﬂow

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

can be transmitted at a faster-than-natural bitrate to further accelerate the acquisition. The
motivating use case for this capability is multicast applications that carry real-time compressed
audio and video.

Name

Notes

nack
rai

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

Level Mux Category

M

IDENTICAL-PER-
PT

Table 62: RFC 6285 Attribute Analysis

7.4.  RFC 6679: ECN for RTP over UDP/IP

[RFC6679]
 speciﬁes how Explicit Congestion Notiﬁcation (ECN) can be used with the RTP running
over UDP, using the RTCP as a feedback mechanism. It deﬁnes a new RTCP Extended Report (XR)
block for periodic ECN feedback, a new RTCP transport feedback message for timely reporting of
congestion events, and a STUN extension used in the optional initialization method using ICE.

Name

Notes

Level Mux

Category

ecn-capable-
rtp

nack ecn

ECN markup is enabled at the RTP session level.

M

IDENTICAL

This attribute enables ECN at the RTP session
level.

M

IDENTICAL

Table 63: RFC 6679 Attribute Analysis

7.5.  RFC 6642: Third-Party Loss Report

In a large RTP session using the RTCP feedback mechanism deﬁned in
target may experience transient overload if some event causes a large number of receivers to
send feedback at once. This overload is usually avoided by ensuring that feedback reports are
forwarded to all receivers, allowing them to avoid sending duplicate feedback reports. However,
there are cases where it is not recommended to forward feedback reports, and this may allow
feedback implosion.
 discusses these cases and deﬁnes a new RTCP Third-Party Loss
Report that can be used to inform receivers that the feedback target is aware of some loss event,
allowing them to suppress feedback. Associated SDP signaling is also deﬁned.

, a feedback

[RFC4585]

[RFC6642]

Name

Notes

nack
tllei

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

Level Mux Category

M

IDENTICAL-PER-
PT

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

nack
pslei

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

Level Mux Category

M

IDENTICAL-PER-
PT

Table 64: RFC 6642 Attribute Analysis

7.6.  RFC 5104: Codec Control Messages in AVPF

 speciﬁes a few extensions to the messages deﬁned in the Audio-Visual Proﬁle with

[RFC5104]
Feedback (AVPF). They are helpful primarily in conversational multimedia scenarios where
centralized multipoint functionalities are in use. However, some are also usable in smaller
multicast environments and point-to-point calls.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

ccm ﬁr

ccm
tmmbr

ccm tstr

ccm
vbcm

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

M

M

M

M

IDENTICAL-PER-
PT

IDENTICAL-PER-
PT

IDENTICAL-PER-
PT

IDENTICAL-PER-
PT

Table 65: RFC 5104 Attribute Analysis

8.  group Attribute Analysis

This section analyzes SDP "group" attribute semantics

[RFC5888]
.

8.1.  RFC 5888: SDP Grouping Framework

[RFC5888]

 deﬁnes a framework to group "m=" lines in SDP for diﬀerent purposes.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

group:LS

Not impacted

group:FID Not impacted

S

S

NORMAL

NORMAL

Table 66: RFC 5888 Attribute Analysis

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

8.2.  RFC 3524: Mapping Media Streams to Resource Reservation Flows

[RFC3524]
 deﬁnes an extension to the SDP grouping framework. It allows requesting a group of
media streams to be mapped into a single resource reservation ﬂow. The SDP syntax needed is
deﬁned, as well as a new "semantics" attribute called Single Reservation Flow (SRF).

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

group:SRF Not impacted

S

NORMAL

Table 67: RFC 3524 Attribute Analysis

8.3.  RFC 4091: ANAT Semantics

[RFC4091]
[RFC8445]
obsoleted by
establish a particular media stream.

 deﬁnes ANAT semantics for the SDP grouping framework. (Note:

[RFC4091]

 has been

.) The ANAT semantics allow alternative types of network addresses to

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

group:ANAT

ANAT semantics is obsoleted.

S

CAUTION

Table 68: RFC 4091 Attribute Analysis

8.4.  RFC 5956: FEC Grouping Semantics in SDP

 deﬁnes the semantics for grouping the associated source and FEC-based repair ﬂows

[RFC5956]
in SDP. The semantics deﬁned in the document are to be used with the SDP Grouping Framework
[RFC5888]
and repair ﬂows when one or more source and/or repair ﬂows are associated in the same group;
they also provide support for additive repair ﬂows. SSRC-level grouping semantics are also
deﬁned in this document for RTP streams using SSRC multiplexing.

. These semantics allow the description of grouping relationships between the source

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

group:FEC-FR Not impacted

S

NORMAL

Table 69: RFC 5956 Attribute Analysis

8.5.  RFC 5583: Signaling Media Decoding Dependency in SDP

 deﬁnes semantics that allow for signaling the decoding dependency of diﬀerent media

[RFC5583]
descriptions with the same media type in SDP. This is required, for example, if media data is
separated and transported in diﬀerent network streams as a result of using a layered or multiple
descriptive media coding process.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

group:DDP

Not impacted

depend lay

depend
mdc

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

The attribute value
codec conﬁguration.

MUST

 be the same for a given

S

M

M

NORMAL

IDENTICAL-PER-
PT

IDENTICAL-PER-
PT

Table 70: RFC 5583 Attribute Analysis

8.6.  RFC 7104: Duplication Grouping Semantics in the SDP

[RFC7104]
 deﬁnes the semantics for grouping redundant streams in SDP. The semantics deﬁned
in this document are to be used with the SDP Grouping Framework. Grouping semantics at the
synchronization source (SSRC) level are also deﬁned in this document for RTP streams using
SSRC multiplexing.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

group:DUP Not impacted

S

NORMAL

Table 71: RFC 7104 Attribute Analysis

9.  ssrc-group Attribute Analysis

This section analyzes "ssrc-group" semantics.

9.1.  RFC 5576: Source-Speciﬁc SDP Attributes

[RFC5576]
 deﬁnes a mechanism for describing RTP media sources -- which are identiﬁed by their
synchronization source (SSRC) identiﬁers -- in SDP, to associate attributes with these sources and
express relationships among sources. It also deﬁnes several source-level attributes that can be
used to describe properties of media sources.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

ssrc-group:FID

Not impacted

SR

NORMAL

ssrc-group:FEC

Not impacted

SR

NORMAL

ssrc-group:FEC-FR Not impacted

SR

NORMAL

Table 72: RFC 5576 Attribute Analysis

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

9.2.  RFC 7104: Duplication Grouping Semantics in the SDP

[RFC7104]
 deﬁnes the semantics for grouping redundant streams in SDP. The semantics deﬁned
in this document are to be used with the SDP Grouping Framework. Grouping semantics at the
synchronization source (SSRC) level are also deﬁned in this document for RTP streams using
SSRC multiplexing.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

ssrc-group:DUP Not impacted

SR

NORMAL

Table 73: RFC 7104 Attribute Analysis

10.  QoS Mechanism Token Analysis

This section analyzes QoS tokes speciﬁed with SDP.

10.1.  RFC 5432: QoS Mechanism Selection in SDP

[RFC5432]

 deﬁnes procedures to negotiate QoS mechanisms using the SDP oﬀer/answer model.

Name Notes

rsvp

nsis

MUST

rsvp attribute
"m=" line chosen for setting up the underlying transport
ﬂow.

 be the one that corresponds to the

rsvp attribute
"m=" line chosen for setting up the underlying transport.

 be the one that corresponds to the

MUST

Level Mux

Category

B

B

TRANSPORT

TRANSPORT

Table 74: RFC 5432 Attribute Analysis

NOTE: A single Diﬀerentiated Services Code Point (DSCP) for each ﬂow being multiplexed doesn't
impact multiplexing, since QoS mechanisms are signaled/scoped per ﬂow. For scenarios that
involve having diﬀerent DSCP code points for packets being transmitted over the same 5-tuple,
issues as discussed in

 need to be taken into consideration.

[RFC7657]

11.  k= Attribute Analysis

11.1.  RFC 4566: SDP

[RFC4566]
session announcement, session invitation, and other forms of multimedia session initiation.

 deﬁnes SDP that is intended for describing multimedia sessions for the purposes of

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name Notes

k=

It is not recommended to use this attribute under
multiplexing.

Table 75: RFC 4566 Attribute Analysis

12.  content Attribute Analysis

12.1.  RFC 4796

Level Mux

Category

S

CAUTION

[RFC4796]
 deﬁnes a new SDP media-level attribute, "content". The "content" attribute deﬁnes the
content of the media stream to a more detailed level than the media description line. The sender
of an SDP session description can attach the "content" attribute to one or more media streams.
The receiving application can then treat each media stream diﬀerently (e.g., show it on a big or
small screen) based on its content.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

content:slides

Not impacted M

NORMAL

content:speaker Not impacted M

NORMAL

content:main

Not impacted M

NORMAL

content:sl

Not impacted M

NORMAL

content:alt

Not impacted M

NORMAL

Table 76: RFC 4796 Attribute Analysis

12.2.  3GPP TS 24.182

[IMS-CAT]

 speciﬁes an IP multimedia subsystem for customized alerting tones.

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

g.3gpp.cat

Usage deﬁned for the IP multimedia subsystem M

NORMAL

Table 77: 3GPP TS 24.182 Attribute Analysis

12.3.  3GPP TS 24.183

[IMS-CRS]

 speciﬁes an IP multimedia subsystem for customized ringing signal.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Name

Notes

Level Mux Category

g.3gpp.crs

Usage deﬁned for the IP multimedia subsystem M

NORMAL

Table 78: 3GPP TS 24.183 Attribute Analysis

13.  Payload Formats

13.1.  RFC 5109: RTP Payload Format for Generic FEC

[RFC5109]
 describes a payload format for generic Forward Error Correction (FEC) for media data
encapsulated in RTP. It is based on the exclusive-or (parity) operation. The payload format allows
end systems to apply protection using various protection lengths and levels, in addition to using
various protection group sizes to adapt to diﬀerent media and channel characteristics. It enables
complete recovery of the protected packets or partial recovery of the critical parts of the payload,
depending on the packet loss situation.

Name

Notes

Level Mux

audio/ulpfec

Not recommended for multiplexing due to
reuse of SSRCs.

video/ulpfec

Not recommended for multiplexing due to
reuse of SSRCs.

text/ulpfec

Not recommended for multiplexing due to
reuse of SSRCs.

application/
ulpfec

Not recommended for multiplexing due to
reuse of SSRCs.

Table 79: RFC 5109 Payload Format Analysis

Category

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

M

M

M

M

14.  Multiplexing Considerations for Encapsulating Attributes

This section deals with recommendations for deﬁning the multiplexing characteristics of the SDP
attributes that encapsulate other SDP attributes/parameters. As of today, such attributes, for
 as part of a generic framework for
 and
example, are deﬁned in
indicating and negotiating transport-, media-, and media-format-related capabilities in the SDP.

,
[RFC3407] [RFC5939]

[RFC6871]

The behavior of such attributes under multiplexing is, in turn, deﬁned by the multiplexing
behavior of the attributes they encapsulate, which are made known once the oﬀer/answer
negotiation process is completed.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

14.1.  RFC 3407: cpar Attribute Analysis

[RFC3407]

 capability parameter attribute "a=cpar" encapsulates a "b=" (bandwidth) or an

The
"a=" attribute. For bandwidth attribute encapsulation, the category SUM is inherited. For the case
of "a=" attribute, the category corresponding to the SDP attribute being encapsulated is inherited.

 v=0
 o=alice 2890844526 2890844527 IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
 s=
 c=IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
 t=0 0
 m=video 3456 RTP/AVP 100
 a=rtpmap:100 VP8/90000
 a=sqn: 0
 a=cdsc: 1 video RTP/AVP 100
 a=cpar: a=rtcp-mux
 m=video 3456 RTP/AVP 101
 a=rtpmap:101 VP8/90000
 a=fmtp:100 max-fr=15;max-fs=1200
 a=cdsc: 2 video RTP/AVP 101
 a=cpar: a=rtcp-mux

In this example, the category IDENTICAL is inherited for the cpar-encapsulated "rtcp-mux"
attribute.

14.2.  RFC 5939 Analysis

 deﬁnes a general SDP capability negotiation framework. It also speciﬁes how to

[RFC5939]
provide transport protocols and SDP attributes as capabilities and negotiate them using the
framework.

For this purpose,

[RFC5939]

 deﬁnes the following:

•

A set of capabilities for the session and its associated media-stream components, supported
by each side. The attribute "a=acap" deﬁnes how to list an attribute name and its associated
value (if any) as a capability. The attribute "a=tcap" deﬁnes how to list transport protocols
(e.g., "RTP/AVP") as capabilities.

•

A set of potential conﬁgurations ("a=pcfg") provided by the oﬀerer to indicate which
combinations of those capabilities can be used for the session and its associated media
stream components. Potential conﬁgurations are not ready for use until fully negotiated.
They provide an alternative that
procedures. In particular, the answerer
use as part of the current oﬀer/answer exchange.

 be used, subject to SDP capability-negotiation

 choose one of the potential conﬁgurations for

MAY

MAY

•

An actual conﬁguration ("a=acfg") for the session and its associated media stream
components. The actual conﬁguration identiﬁes the potential conﬁguration that was
negotiated for use. Use of an actual conﬁguration does not require any further negotiation.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

•

A negotiation process that takes the current actual and the set of potential conﬁgurations
(combinations of capabilities) as input and provides the negotiated actual conﬁgurations as
output. In
description.

, the negotiation process is done independently for each media

[RFC5939]

14.2.1.  Recommendation: Procedures for Potential Conﬁguration Pairing

This section provides recommendations for entities generating and processing SDP under the
 under the context of media-
generic capability-negotiation framework as deﬁned in
stream multiplexing.

[RFC5939]

These recommendations are provided for the purposes of enabling the oﬀerer to make sure that
the generated potential conﬁgurations between the multiplexed streams can (easily) be
negotiated to be consistent between those streams. In particular, the procedures aim to simplify
the answerer's procedure for choosing potential conﬁgurations that are consistent across all the
multiplexed media descriptions.

A potential conﬁguration selects a set of attributes and parameters that become part of the media
description when negotiated. When multiplexing media descriptions with potential
conﬁgurations speciﬁed, there
multiplexed media descriptions to ensure the right multiplexing behavior.

 be a need for coordinating this selection between

MAY

Although it is possible to analyze the various potential conﬁgurations in multiplexed media
descriptions to ﬁnd combinations that satisfy such constraints, it can quickly become
complicated to do so.

[RFC5939]

The procedures deﬁned in
unique conﬁguration number; however, the scope of uniqueness is limited to each media
description. To make it simple for the answerer to chose valid combinations of potential
conﬁgurations across media descriptions in a given BUNDLE group, we provide a simple rule for
constructing potential conﬁgurations:

 state that each potential conﬁguration in the SDP has a

•

Let m-bundle be the set of media descriptions that form a given bundle.

•

Let m-bundle-pcfg be the set of media descriptions in m-bundle that include one or more
potential conﬁgurations.

•

Each media description in m-bundle-pcfg
MUST
with the same conﬁguration number (e.g., "1").

 have at least one potential conﬁguration

•

For each potential conﬁguration with conﬁguration number x in m-bundle-pcfg, the oﬀerer
 ensure that if the answerer chooses conﬁguration number x in each of the media
MUST
descriptions in m-bundle-pcfg, then the resulting SDP will have all multiplexing constraints
satisﬁed for those media descriptions.

•

Since it is nearly impossible to deﬁne a generic mechanism for various capability extensions,
this document doesn't provide procedures for dealing with the capability-extension
attributes. However, Section 14.3 provides analysis of media-capability-extension attributes
as deﬁned in

[RFC6871]

.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

The above allows the answerer to easily ﬁnd multiplexing-compatible combinations of potential
conﬁgurations. The answerer simply chooses a potential conﬁguration (number) that is present
in all of the media descriptions with potential conﬁgurations in the bundle.

Note that it is still possible for the oﬀerer to provide additional potential conﬁgurations with
independent conﬁguration numbers. The answerer will have to perform more complicated
analysis to determine valid multiplexed combinations of those.

14.2.1.1.  Example: Transport-Capability Multiplexing

v=0
o=alice 2890844526 2890844527 IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
s=
c=IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
t=0 0
a=tcap:1 RTP/SAVPF
a=tcap:2 RTP/SAVP
a=group:BUNDLE audio video
m=audio
a=mid:audio
a=pcfg:1 t=1
a=pcfg:2
m=video
a=mid:video
a=pcfg:1 t=1
a=pcfg:2 t=2

In this example, the potential conﬁgurations that oﬀer transport-protocol capability of RTP/
SAVPF have the same conﬁguration number "1" in both the audio and video media descriptions.

14.2.1.2.  Example: Attribute-Capability Multiplexing

v=0
o=alice 2890844526 2890844527 IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
s=
c=IN IP4 host.atlanta.example.com
t=0 0
a=acap:1 a=rtcp-mux
a=acap:2 a=crypto:1 AES_CM_128_HMAC_SHA1_80
  inline:EcGZiNWpFJhQXdspcl1ekcmVCNWpVLcfHAwJSoj|2^20|1:32
a=group:BUNDLE audio video
m=audio 49172 RTP/AVP 99
a=mid:audio
a=pcfg:1 a=1
a=pcfg:2
m=video 560024 RTP/AVP 100
a=mid:video
a=pcfg:1 a=1
a=pcfg:2 a=2

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

In this example, the potential conﬁguration number "1" is repeated while referring to attribute
capability a=rtcp-mux, since the behavior is IDENTICAL for the attribute a=rtcp-mux under
multiplexing.

14.3.  RFC 6871 Analysis

 extends the capability negotiation framework described in

[RFC6871]
media capabilities that can be used to indicate and negotiate media types and their associated
format parameters. It also allows indication of latent conﬁgurations and session capabilities.

 by deﬁning

[RFC5939]

14.3.1.  Recommendation: Dealing with Payload Type Numbers

 deﬁnes a new payload type parameter ("pt") to be used with the potential, actual, and

[RFC6871]
latent conﬁguration parameters. The parameter associates RTP payload type numbers with the
referenced RTP-based media-format capabilities ("a=rmcap") deﬁned in
appropriate only when the transport protocol uses RTP. This means that the same payload type
number can be assigned as part of potential or actual conﬁgurations in diﬀerent media
descriptions in a bundle. There are rules for the usage of identical payload type values across
multiplexed "m=" lines, described in
[RFC8843]
described in Section 14.2.1, the use of identical conﬁguration numbers for compatible
conﬁgurations in diﬀerent media descriptions that are part of the bundle provides a way to
ensure that the answerer can easily pick compatible conﬁgurations here, as well.

, which must be followed here, as well. As

[RFC6871]

 and is

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

14.3.1.1.  Example: Attribute Capability under Shared Payload Type

The attributes "a=rmcap" and "a=mfcap" follow the above recommendations under multiplexing.

v=0
o=- 25678 753849 IN IP4 192.0.2.1
s=
c=IN IP4 192.0.2.1
t=0 0
a=creq:med-v0
m=audio 54322 RTP/AVP 96
a=rtpmap:96 AMR-WB/16000/1
a=fmtp:96 mode-change-capability=1; max-red=220;
mode-set=0,2,4,7
a=rmcap:1,3 audio AMR-WB/16000/1
a=rmcap:2 audio AMR/8000/1
a=mfcap:1,2 mode-change-capability=1
a=mfcap:3 mode-change-capability=2
a=pcfg:1 m=1 pt=1:96
a=pcfg:2 m=2 pt=2:97
a=pcfg:3 m=3 pt=3:98
m=audio 54322 RTP/AVP 96
a=rtpmap:96 AMR-WB/16000/1
a=fmtp:96 mode-change-capability=1; max-red=220;
mode-set=0,2,4,7
a=rmcap:4 audio AMR/8000/1
a=rmcap:5 audio OPUS/48000/2
a=mfcap:5 minptime=40
a=mfcap:4 mode-change-capability=1
a=pcfg:1 m=4 pt=4:97
a=pcfg:4 m=5 pt=5:101

In this example, the potential conﬁguration number "1" is repeated when referring to media and
media-format capability used for the Payload Type 96. This implies that both media capabilities 2
and 4, along with their media-format capabilities,
 refer to the same codec conﬁguration, as
per the deﬁnition of IDENTICAL-PER-PT.

MUST

14.3.2.  Recommendation: Dealing with Latent Conﬁgurations

 adds the notion of a latent conﬁguration that provides conﬁguration information that

[RFC6871]
may be used to guide a subsequent oﬀer/exchange -- e.g., by adding another media stream or
using alternative codec combinations not currently oﬀered. Latent conﬁgurations have
conﬁguration numbers that cannot overlap with the potential conﬁguration numbers
Supported combinations of potential and latent conﬁgurations are indicated by use of the
"a=sescap" attribute; however, use of this attribute is not recommended with multiplexed media,
since it requires the use of unique conﬁguration numbers across the SDP. Taken together, this
means there is no well-deﬁned way to indicate supported combinations of latent conﬁgurations,
or combinations of latent and potential conﬁgurations with multiplexed media. It is still allowed
to use the latent conﬁguration attribute; however, the limitations above will apply. To determine
valid combinations, actual negotiation will have to be attempted subsequently instead.

[RFC6871]

.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

15.  IANA Considerations

Section 15.1 deﬁnes a new subregistry, which has been added by the IANA, for identifying the
initial registrations for various multiplexing categories applicable, as described in this document.

IANA has added a new column named "Mux Category" to several of the subregistries in the
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The tables in Section 15.2 identify the
names of entries in the existing subregistry and specify the value to be put in the new "Mux
Category" column of the associated IANA registry for each.

15.1.  New "Multiplexing Categories" Subregistry

A new subregistry has been created. It is called "Multiplexing Categories" and has the following
registrations initially:

Multiplexing Categories

Reference

NORMAL

CAUTION

IDENTICAL

TRANSPORT

SUM

INHERIT

RFC 8859

RFC 8859

RFC 8859

RFC 8859

RFC 8859

RFC 8859

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

RFC 8859

SPECIAL

TBD

Table 80

RFC 8859

RFC 8859

Further entries can be registered using Standard Actions policies outlined in
requires IESG review and approval and Standards Track IETF RFC publication.

[RFC8126]

, which

Each registration needs to indicate the multiplexing category value to be added to the
"Multiplexing Categories" subregistry, as deﬁned in this section.

 also indicate the applicability of the newly deﬁned multiplexing
Such a registration
category value to various subregistries deﬁned in the "Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Parameters" registry.

MUST

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

15.2.  "Mux Category" Column for Subregistries

Each subsection identiﬁes a subregistry of the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters"
registry. The tables list the column that identiﬁes the SDP attribute name/Token/Value from the
corresponding subregistries and the values to be used for the new "Mux Category" column to be
added.

Entries in the existing subregistries of the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters"
registry that lack a value for the "Mux Category" in this speciﬁcation will get a value of "TBD".

The registration policy for updates to the "Mux Category" column values for existing parameters,
or when registering new parameters, is beyond the scope of this document. The registration
[RFC8866]
policy for the aﬀected table is deﬁned in

.

15.2.1.  Table: SDP bwtype

The following values have been added to the "bwtype" subregistry of the "Session Description
Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have been updated to point to this RFC as
well as the previous references.

SDP Name

Mux Category

CT

AS

RS

RR

TIAS

Table 81

NORMAL

SUM

SUM

SUM

SPECIAL

15.2.2.  Table: attribute-name

The following values have been added to the "attribute-name" (formerly "att-ﬁeld") subregistry of
the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have been updated
to point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

NOTE: The attributes from
"content-desc") were not analyzed for their multiplexing behavior, due to the expired status of
the draft. For the purposes of this speciﬁcation, the multiplexing category of "TBD" is assigned.

 ("ﬂute-tsi", "ﬂute-ch", "FEC-declaration", "FEC-OTI-extension",

[FLUTE]

SDP Name

Mux Category

cat

NORMAL

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

SDP Name

Mux Category

keywds

type

type:broadcast

type:H332

type:meeting

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

type:moderated

NORMAL

type:test

charset

NORMAL

NORMAL

charset:iso8895-1

NORMAL

tool

ipbcp

group

ice-lite

ice-options

bcastversion

NORMAL

SPECIAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

3GPP-Integrity-Key

CAUTION

3GPP-SDP-Auth

alt-group

PSCid

bc_service

bc_program

CAUTION

CAUTION

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

bc_service_package

NORMAL

sescap

CAUTION

rtsp-ice-d-m

TBD

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

SDP Name

Mux Category

recvonly

sendrecv

sendonly

sdplang

lang

h248item

sqn

cdsc

cpar

cparmin

cparmax

rtcp-xr

maxprate

setup

connection

key-mgmt

source-ﬁlter

inactive

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

SPECIAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

INHERIT

SPECIAL

SPECIAL

NORMAL

SPECIAL

TRANSPORT

TRANSPORT

IDENTICAL

IDENTICAL

NORMAL

ﬁngerprint

TRANSPORT

ﬂute-tsi

ﬂute-ch

FEC-declaration

FEC-OTI-extension

content-desc

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 60

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

SDP Name

Mux Category

ice-pwd

ice-ufrag

stkmstream

extmap

TRANSPORT

TRANSPORT

NORMAL

SPECIAL

qos-mech-send

TRANSPORT

qos-mech-recv

TRANSPORT

csup

creq

acap

tcap

NORMAL

NORMAL

INHERIT

INHERIT

3GPP-QoE-Metrics

CAUTION

3GPP-Asset-Information

CAUTION

mbms-mode

mbms-repair

CAUTION

CAUTION

ike-setup

IDENTICAL

psk-ﬁngerprint

IDENTICAL

multicast-rtcp

IDENTICAL

rmcap

omcap

mfcap

mscap

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

NORMAL

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

INHERIT

3gpp.iut.replication

TBD

bcap

ccap

INHERIT

IDENTICAL

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 61

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

SDP Name

Mux Category

icap

etag

NORMAL

CAUTION

duplication-delay

NORMAL

range

control

mtag

ts-refclk

mediaclk

calgextmap

ptime

orient

orient:portrait

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

NORMAL

NORMAL

orient:landscape

NORMAL

orient:seascape

NORMAL

framerate

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

quality

rtpmap

fmtp

rtpred1

rtpred2

T38FaxVersion

T38MaxBitRate

T38FaxFillBitRemoval

NORMAL

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

CAUTION

CAUTION

TBD

TBD

TBD

T38FaxTranscodingMMR

TBD

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 62

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

SDP Name

Mux Category

T38FaxTranscodingJBIG

TBD

T38FaxRateManagement

TBD

T38FaxMaxBuﬀer

T38FaxMaxDatagram

T38FaxUdpEC

TBD

TBD

TBD

maxptime

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

des

curr

conf

mid

rtcp

rtcp-fb

label

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

NORMAL

TRANSPORT

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

NORMAL

T38VendorInfo

TBD

crypto

eecid

aalType

capability

qosClass

bcob

stc

upcc

atmQOSparms

atmTrfcDesc

TRANSPORT

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 63

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

SDP Name

Mux Category

abrParms

abrSetup

bearerType

lij

anycast

cache

bearerSigIE

aalApp

cbrRate

sbc

clkrec

fec

prtﬂ

structure

cpsSDUsize

aal2CPS

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

aal2CPSSDUrate

CAUTION

aal2sscs3661unassured

CAUTION

aal2sscs3661assured

CAUTION

aal2sscs3662

aal5sscop

atmmap

silenceSupp

ecan

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 64

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

SDP Name

Mux Category

gc

proﬁleDesc

vsel

dsel

fsel

onewaySel

codecconﬁg

isup_usi

uiLayer1_Prot

chain

ﬂoorctrl

conﬁd

userid

ﬂoorid

FEC

accept-types

accept-wrapped-types

max-size

path

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

CAUTION

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

NORMAL

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

dccp-service-code

CAUTION

rtcp-mux

candidate

IDENTICAL

TRANSPORT

ice-mismatch

NORMAL

remote-candidates

TRANSPORT

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 65

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

SDP Name

Mux Category

SRTPAuthentication

SRTPROCTxRate

TBD

TBD

rtcp-rsize

ﬁle-selector

ﬁle-transfer-id

ﬁle-disposition

ﬁle-date

ﬁle-icon

ﬁle-range

depend

ssrc

ssrc-group

IDENTICAL

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

NORMAL

NORMAL

rtcp-unicast

IDENTICAL

pcfg

acfg

SPECIAL

SPECIAL

zrtp-hash

TRANSPORT

X-predecbufsize

CAUTION

X-initpredecbufperiod

CAUTION

X-initpostdecbufperiod

CAUTION

X-decbyterate

CAUTION

3gpp-videopostdecbufsize

CAUTION

framesize

CAUTION

3GPP-SRTP-Conﬁg

CAUTION

alt

CAUTION

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 66

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

SDP Name

Mux Category

alt-default-id

CAUTION

3GPP-Adaption-Support

CAUTION

mbms-ﬂowid

CAUTION

fec-source-ﬂow

fec-repair-ﬂow

repair-window

SPECIAL

SPECIAL

SPECIAL

rams-updates

CAUTION

imageattr

cfw-id

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

NORMAL

portmapping-req

CAUTION

ecn-capable-rtp

IDENTICAL

visited-realm

TRANSPORT

secondary-realm

TRANSPORT

omr-s-cksum

omr-m-cksum

omr-codecs

omr-m-att

omr-s-att

omr-m-bw

omr-s-bw

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

msrp-cema

TBD

dccp-port

resource

channel

CAUTION

NORMAL

NORMAL

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 67

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

SDP Name

Mux Category

cmid

content

lcfg

loopback

NORMAL

NORMAL

SPECIAL

NORMAL

loopback-source

NORMAL

loopback-mirror

NORMAL

chatroom

TBD

altc

TRANSPORT

T38FaxMaxIFP

T38FaxUdpECDepth

TBD

TBD

T38FaxUdpFECMaxSpan

TBD

T38ModemType

cs-correlation

rtcp-idms

cname

previous-ssrc

fmtp

ts-refclk

mediaclk

Table 82

TBD

TBD

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

NORMAL

NORMAL

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 68

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

15.2.3.  Table: content SDP Parameters

The following values have been added to the "content SDP Parameters" subregistry of the
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have been updated to
point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

SDP Name

Mux Category

slides

NORMAL

speaker

NORMAL

sl

main

alt

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

g.3gpp.cat

NORMAL

g.3gpp.crs

NORMAL

Table 83

15.2.4.  Table: Semantics for the "group" SDP Attribute

The following values have been added to the "Semantics for the 'group' SDP Attribute"
subregistry of the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have
been updated to point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

Token

Mux Category

LS

FID

SRF

ANAT

FEC

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

CAUTION

NORMAL

FEC-FR

NORMAL

CS

DDP

NORMAL

NORMAL

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 69

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Token

Mux Category

DUP

Table 84

NORMAL

15.2.5.  Table: "rtcp-fb" Attribute Values

The following values have been added to the "'rtcp-fb' Attribute Values" subregistry of the
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have been updated to
point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

Value Name

Mux Category

ack

app

ccm

nack

trr-int

Table 85

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

SPECIAL

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

15.2.6.  Table: "ack" and "nack" Attribute Values

The following values have been added to the "'ack' and 'nack' Attribute Values" subregistry of the
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have been updated to
point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

Value Name

Mux Category

sli

pli

rpsi

app

rai

tllei

pslei

ecn

Table 86

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

SPECIAL

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

IDENTICAL

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 70

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

15.2.7.  Table: "depend" SDP Attribute Values

The following values have been added to the "'depend' SDP Attribute Values" subregistry of the
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have been updated to
point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

Token

Mux Category

lay

mdc

Table 87

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

15.2.8.  Table: "cs-correlation" Attribute Values

The following values have been added to the "'cs-correlation' Attribute Values" subregistry of the
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have been updated to
point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

Value

Mux Category

callerid

uuie

dtmf

external

Table 88

TBD

TBD

TBD

TBD

15.2.9.  Table: Semantics for the "ssrc-group" SDP Attribute

The following values have been added to the "Semantics for the 'ssrc-group' SDP Attribute"
subregistry of the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have
been updated to point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

Token

Mux Category

FID

FEC

NORMAL

NORMAL

FEC-FR

NORMAL

DUP

Table 89

NORMAL

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 71

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

15.2.10.  Table: SDP/RTSP Key Management Protocol Identiﬁers

The following values have been added to the "SDP/RTSP key management protocol identiﬁers"
subregistry of the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have
been updated to point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

Value Name

Mux Category

mikey

Table 90

IDENTICAL

15.2.11.  Table: Codec Control Messages

The following values have been added to the "Codec Control Messages" subregistry of the
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have been updated to
point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

Value Name

Mux Category

ﬁr

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

tmmbr

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

tstr

vbcm

Table 91

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

IDENTICAL-PER-PT

15.2.12.  Table: QoS Mechanism Tokens

The following values have been added to the "QoS Mechanism Tokens" subregistry of the
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have been updated to
point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

QoS Mechanism

Mux Category

rsvp

nsis

Table 92

TRANSPORT

TRANSPORT

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 72

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

15.2.13.  Table: SDP Capability Negotiation Option Tags

The following values have been added to the "SDP Capability Negotiation Option Tags"
subregistry of the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have
been updated to point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

Option Tag

Mux Category

cap-v0

med-v0

NORMAL

NORMAL

bcap-v0

NORMAL

ccap-v0

NORMAL

icap-v0

Table 93

NORMAL

15.2.14.  Table: Timestamp Reference Clock Source Parameters

The following values have been added to the "Timestamp Reference Clock Source Parameters"
subregistry of the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have
been updated to point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

Name

Mux Category

ntp

ptp

gps

gal

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

NORMAL

glonass

NORMAL

local

NORMAL

private

NORMAL

Table 94

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 73

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

15.2.15.  Table: Media Clock Source Parameters

The following values have been added to the "Media Clock Source Parameters" subregistry of the
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry. The references have been updated to
point to this RFC as well as the previous references.

Name

sender

direct

Mux Category

NORMAL

NORMAL

IEEE1722

NORMAL

Table 95

16.  Security Considerations

The primary security considerations for RTP, including the way it is used here, are described in
[RFC3550]

.
[RFC3711]

 and

When multiplexing SDP attributes with the category "CAUTION", the implementations should be
aware of possible issues described in this speciﬁcation.

17.  References

17.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4566]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8843]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"
, July 2006,
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc4566>

,
.

,

,

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

.

,

,

,

Holmberg, C., Alvestrand, H., and C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8843 DOI 10.17487/RFC8843
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8843>

,
,

,

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 74

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

17.2.  Informative References

[FLUTE]

[H.248.15]

[IANA]

[IMS-CAT]

[IMS-CRS]

[IP-CALL]

[Q.1970]

[RFC2326]

[RFC3108]

[RFC3264]

[RFC3312]

[RFC3407]

Walsh, R., Peltotalo, J., Peltotalo, S., Curcio, I. D., and H. Mehta "SDP Descriptors
for FLUTE" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-rmt-ﬂute-sdp-03
, 12
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-rmt-ﬂute-sdp-03>
September 2012,
.

,

,

,

,

ITU-T "Gateway control protocol: SDP ITU-T H.248 package attribute" ITU-T
Recommendation H.248.15
H.248.15>

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-

, March 2013,

.

,

,

IANA "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/sdp-parameters>

.

,

,

3GPP "IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Customized Alerting Tones (CAT);
Protocol speciﬁcation" Speciﬁcation 24.182 Speciﬁcation 24.182
<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/html-info/24182.htm>

,

.

,

, January 2015,

,

3GPP "IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Customized Ringing Signal (CRS);
,
Protocol speciﬁcation" Speciﬁcation 24.183
www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/html-info/24183.htm>

, September 2016,

<https://

.

,

3GPP "IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3" Speciﬁcation 24.229
September 2016,

<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/html-info/24229.htm>

,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Q.1970: BICC IP bearer control protocol" ITU-T Recommendation Q.1970
September 2006,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-Q.1970-200609-I/en>

.

,

,

,
,
Schulzrinne, H., Rao, A., and R. Lanphier "Real Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP)"
RFC 2326 DOI 10.17487/RFC2326
rfc2326>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, April 1998,

,
.

Kumar, R. and M. Mostafa "Conventions for the use of the Session Description
,
Protocol (SDP) for ATM Bearer Connections" RFC 3108 DOI 10.17487/RFC3108
May 2001,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3108>

,

.

,

,

Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

, June 2002,

,

,

.

,

Camarillo, G., Ed., Marshall, W., Ed., and J. Rosenberg "Integration of Resource
Management and Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3312 DOI 10.17487/
RFC3312

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3312>

, October 2002,

,

,

.

,

,
Andreasen, F. "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Simple Capability
,
,
Declaration" RFC 3407 DOI 10.17487/RFC3407
editor.org/info/rfc3407>

, October 2002,

.

<https://www.rfc-

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 75

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

[RFC3524]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3556]

[RFC3605]

[RFC3611]

[RFC3711]

[RFC3890]

[RFC4091]

[RFC4145]

[RFC4567]

[RFC4568]

[RFC4570]

Camarillo, G. and A. Monrad "Mapping of Media Streams to Resource
Reservation Flows" RFC 3524 DOI 10.17487/RFC3524
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3524>

, April 2003,

,

,

,

.

<https://

Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
,
July 2003,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

.

,

,

,

,

Casner, S. "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Bandwidth Modiﬁers for RTP
Control Protocol (RTCP) Bandwidth" RFC 3556 DOI 10.17487/RFC3556
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3556>

,

,

.

, July 2003,

,

Huitema, C. "Real Time Control Protocol (RTCP) attribute in Session Description
,
Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3605 DOI 10.17487/RFC3605
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3605>

, October 2003,

<https://

,

.

Friedman, T., Ed., Caceres, R., Ed., and A. Clark, Ed. "RTP Control Protocol
,
Extended Reports (RTCP XR)" RFC 3611 DOI 10.17487/RFC3611
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3611>

.

,

,

, November 2003,

Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K. Norrman "The Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, March

,
.

,

,

,

Westerlund, M. "A Transport Independent Bandwidth Modiﬁer for the Session
, September 2004,
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3890 DOI 10.17487/RFC3890
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3890>

.

,

,

Camarillo, G. and J. Rosenberg "The Alternative Network Address Types (ANAT)
Semantics for the Session Description Protocol (SDP) Grouping Framework" RFC
,
4091 DOI 10.17487/RFC4091
rfc4091>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2005,

,

.

,

,
Yon, D. and G. Camarillo "TCP-Based Media Transport in the Session Description
,
Protocol (SDP)" RFC 4145 DOI 10.17487/RFC4145
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4145>

, September 2005,

<https://

,

.

Arkko, J., Lindholm, F., Naslund, M., Norrman, K., and E. Carrara "Key
Management Extensions for Session Description Protocol (SDP) and Real Time
Streaming Protocol (RTSP)" RFC 4567 DOI 10.17487/RFC4567
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4567>

, July 2006,

.

,

,

,

<https://

Andreasen, F., Baugher, M., and D. Wing "Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Security Descriptions for Media Streams" RFC 4568 DOI 10.17487/RFC4568
2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4568>

,

.

,

,

, July

Quinn, B. and R. Finlayson "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Source Filters"
, July 2006,
RFC 4570 DOI 10.17487/RFC4570
rfc4570>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

,

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 76

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

[RFC4572]

[RFC4574]

[RFC4583]

[RFC4585]

[RFC4796]

[RFC4975]

[RFC5104]

[RFC5109]

[RFC5159]

[RFC5285]

[RFC5432]

[RFC5506]

,

Lennox, J. "Connection-Oriented Media Transport over the Transport Layer
Security (TLS) Protocol in the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 4572 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC4572

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4572>

, July 2006,

.

,

Levin, O. and G. Camarillo "The Session Description Protocol (SDP) Label
Attribute" RFC 4574 DOI 10.17487/RFC4574
editor.org/info/rfc4574>

, August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

,

,

,

Camarillo, G. "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Format for Binary Floor
,
Control Protocol (BFCP) Streams" RFC 4583 DOI 10.17487/RFC4583
2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4583>

.

,

, November

Ott, J., Wenger, S., Sato, N., Burmeister, C., and J. Rey "Extended RTP Proﬁle for
Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" RFC
,
4585 DOI 10.17487/RFC4585
rfc4585>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2006,

.

,

,

Hautakorpi, J. and G. Camarillo "The Session Description Protocol (SDP) Content
Attribute" RFC 4796 DOI 10.17487/RFC4796
editor.org/info/rfc4796>

<https://www.rfc-

, February 2007,

.

,

,

,

Campbell, B., Ed., Mahy, R., Ed., and C. Jennings, Ed. "The Message Session Relay
,
Protocol (MSRP)" RFC 4975 DOI 10.17487/RFC4975
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4975>

,
, September 2007,

<https://

.

,

Wenger, S., Chandra, U., Westerlund, M., and B. Burman "Codec Control
Messages in the RTP Audio-Visual Proﬁle with Feedback (AVPF)" RFC 5104 DOI
10.17487/RFC5104

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5104>

, February 2008,

,

.

,

,

Li, A., Ed. "RTP Payload Format for Generic Forward Error Correction" RFC
, December 2007,
,
5109 DOI 10.17487/RFC5109
rfc5109>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

.

,

Dondeti, L., Ed. and A. Jerichow "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Attributes
for Open Mobile Alliance (OMA) Broadcast (BCAST) Service and Content
,
,
Protection" RFC 5159 DOI 10.17487/RFC5159
editor.org/info/rfc5159>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2008,

.

,

Singer, D. and H. Desineni "A General Mechanism for RTP Header Extensions"
, July 2008,
RFC 5285 DOI 10.17487/RFC5285
rfc5285>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

,

,
Polk, J., Dhesikan, S., and G. Camarillo "Quality of Service (QoS) Mechanism
Selection in the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 5432 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5432

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5432>

, March 2009,

.

,

,

Johansson, I. and M. Westerlund "Support for Reduced-Size Real-Time
,
Transport Control Protocol (RTCP): Opportunities and Consequences" RFC 5506
DOI 10.17487/RFC5506

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5506>

, April 2009,

.

,

,

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 77

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

[RFC5547]

[RFC5576]

[RFC5583]

[RFC5760]

[RFC5761]

[RFC5762]

[RFC5763]

[RFC5888]

[RFC5939]

[RFC5956]

[RFC6064]

[RFC6128]

Garcia-Martin, M., Isomaki, M., Camarillo, G., Loreto, S., and P. Kyzivat "A
Session Description Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer Mechanism to Enable File
Transfer" RFC 5547 DOI 10.17487/RFC5547
editor.org/info/rfc5547>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2009,

,

,

,

.

Lennox, J., Ott, J., and T. Schierl "Source-Speciﬁc Media Attributes in the Session
,
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 5576 DOI 10.17487/RFC5576
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5576>

, June 2009,

,

,

.

Schierl, T. and S. Wenger "Signaling Media Decoding Dependency in the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 5583 DOI 10.17487/RFC5583
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5583>

, July 2009,

,

,

,

.

Ott, J., Chesterﬁeld, J., and E. Schooler "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extensions
,
for Single-Source Multicast Sessions with Unicast Feedback" RFC 5760 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5760>
10.17487/RFC5760

, February 2010,

.

,

,

Perkins, C. and M. Westerlund "Multiplexing RTP Data and Control Packets on a
Single Port" RFC 5761 DOI 10.17487/RFC5761
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc5761>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2010,

,

.

,

Perkins, C. "RTP and the Datagram Congestion Control Protocol (DCCP)" RFC
,
5762 DOI 10.17487/RFC5762
rfc5762>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, April 2010,

.

,
Fischl, J., Tschofenig, H., and E. Rescorla "Framework for Establishing a Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) Security Context Using Datagram Transport
,
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 5763 DOI 10.17487/RFC5763
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5763>

, May 2010,

<https://

,

,
Camarillo, G. and H. Schulzrinne "The Session Description Protocol (SDP)
,
Grouping Framework" RFC 5888 DOI 10.17487/RFC5888
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5888>

, June 2010,

,

<https://

,
Andreasen, F. "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Capability Negotiation" RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
5939 DOI 10.17487/RFC5939
rfc5939>

, September 2010,

.

,

,

Begen, A. "Forward Error Correction Grouping Semantics in the Session
Description Protocol" RFC 5956 DOI 10.17487/RFC5956
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5956>

, September 2010,

,

,

.

Westerlund, M. and P. Frojdh "SDP and RTSP Extensions Deﬁned for 3GPP
Packet-Switched Streaming Service and Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service" RFC 6064 DOI 10.17487/RFC6064
editor.org/info/rfc6064>

, January 2011,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

,

,

Begen, A. "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Port for Source-Speciﬁc Multicast (SSM)
Sessions" RFC 6128 DOI 10.17487/RFC6128
editor.org/info/rfc6128>

<https://www.rfc-

, February 2011,

,
,

,

.

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 78

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

[RFC6189]

[RFC6193]

[RFC6230]

[RFC6236]

[RFC6284]

[RFC6285]

[RFC6364]

[RFC6642]

[RFC6679]

[RFC6714]

[RFC6773]

[RFC6787]

Zimmermann, P., Johnston, A., Ed., and J. Callas "ZRTP: Media Path Key
Agreement for Unicast Secure RTP" RFC 6189 DOI 10.17487/RFC6189
,
2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6189>

,

.

, April

Saito, M., Wing, D., and M. Toyama "Media Description for the Internet Key
Exchange Protocol (IKE) in the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 6193
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6193>
DOI 10.17487/RFC6193
.

, April 2011,

,

,

Boulton, C., Melanchuk, T., and S. McGlashan "Media Control Channel
,
Framework" RFC 6230 DOI 10.17487/RFC6230
,
editor.org/info/rfc6230>
.

, May 2011,

,

<https://www.rfc-

Johansson, I. and K. Jung "Negotiation of Generic Image Attributes in the
Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 6236 DOI 10.17487/RFC6236
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6236>

,

,

.

, May 2011,

Begen, A., Wing, D., and T. Van Caenegem "Port Mapping between Unicast and
<https://
Multicast RTP Sessions" RFC 6284 DOI 10.17487/RFC6284
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6284>

, June 2011,

,
.

,

,

Ver Steeg, B., Begen, A., Van Caenegem, T., and Z. Vax "Unicast-Based Rapid
Acquisition of Multicast RTP Sessions" RFC 6285 DOI 10.17487/RFC6285
2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6285>

,

.

,

,

, June

,

Begen, A. "Session Description Protocol Elements for the Forward Error
,
Correction (FEC) Framework" RFC 6364 DOI 10.17487/RFC6364
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6364>

.

,

, October 2011,

Wu, Q., Ed., Xia, F., and R. Even "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extension for a
Third-Party Loss Report" RFC 6642 DOI 10.17487/RFC6642
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6642>

, June 2012,

,

,

.

,

<https://

Westerlund, M., Johansson, I., Perkins, C., O'Hanlon, P., and K. Carlberg "Explicit
Congestion Notiﬁcation (ECN) for RTP over UDP" RFC 6679 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6679

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6679>

, August 2012,

,

.

,

,

,
Holmberg, C., Blau, S., and E. Burger "Connection Establishment for Media
Anchoring (CEMA) for the Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP)" RFC 6714
DOI 10.17487/RFC6714

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6714>

, August 2012,

,

.

Phelan, T., Fairhurst, G., and C. Perkins "DCCP-UDP: A Datagram Congestion
Control Protocol UDP Encapsulation for NAT Traversal" RFC 6773 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6773

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6773>

, November 2012,

,

,

.

,

Burnett, D. and S. Shanmugham "Media Resource Control Protocol Version 2
,
,
(MRCPv2)" RFC 6787 DOI 10.17487/RFC6787
editor.org/info/rfc6787>

, November 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 79

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

[RFC6849]

[RFC6871]

[RFC6947]

[RFC7006]

[RFC7104]

[RFC7195]

[RFC7197]

[RFC7266]

[RFC7272]

[RFC7273]

[RFC7657]

[RFC7826]

Kaplan, H., Ed., Hedayat, K., Venna, N., Jones, P., and N. Stratton "An Extension to
the Session Description Protocol (SDP) and Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP)
for Media Loopback" RFC 6849 DOI 10.17487/RFC6849
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6849>

, February 2013,

<https://

,

,

.

Gilman, R., Even, R., and F. Andreasen "Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Media Capabilities Negotiation" RFC 6871 DOI 10.17487/RFC6871
,
2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6871>

, February

,

,

.

Boucadair, M., Kaplan, H., Gilman, R., and S. Veikkolainen "The Session
Description Protocol (SDP) Alternate Connectivity (ALTC) Attribute" RFC 6947
DOI 10.17487/RFC6947

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6947>

, May 2013,

,

,

.

,

Garcia-Martin, M., Veikkolainen, S., and R. Gilman "Miscellaneous Capabilities
Negotiation in the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 7006 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7006

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7006>

, September 2013,

,

.

,

,

Begen, A., Cai, Y., and H. Ou "Duplication Grouping Semantics in the Session
,
Description Protocol" RFC 7104 DOI 10.17487/RFC7104
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7104>

, January 2014,

,

.

<https://

,
Garcia-Martin, M. and S. Veikkolainen "Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Extension for Setting Audio and Video Media Streams over Circuit-Switched
Bearers in the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)" RFC 7195 DOI
10.17487/RFC7195

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7195>

, May 2014,

.

,

,
Begen, A., Cai, Y., and H. Ou "Duplication Delay Attribute in the Session
,
Description Protocol" RFC 7197 DOI 10.17487/RFC7197
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7197>

, April 2014,

.

,

<https://

,
Clark, A., Wu, Q., Schott, R., and G. Zorn "RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Extended
,
Report (XR) Blocks for Mean Opinion Score (MOS) Metric Reporting" RFC 7266
DOI 10.17487/RFC7266

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7266>

, June 2014,

,

.

van Brandenburg, R., Stokking, H., van Deventer, O., Boronat, F., Montagud, M.,
and K. Gross "Inter-Destination Media Synchronization (IDMS) Using the RTP
<https://
Control Protocol (RTCP)" RFC 7272 DOI 10.17487/RFC7272
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7272>

, June 2014,

,

.

,

,

Williams, A., Gross, K., van Brandenburg, R., and H. Stokking "RTP Clock Source
,
,
Signalling" RFC 7273 DOI 10.17487/RFC7273
editor.org/info/rfc7273>

<https://www.rfc-

, June 2014,

.

,

,
Black, D., Ed. and P. Jones "Diﬀerentiated Services (Diﬀserv) and Real-Time
,
Communication" RFC 7657 DOI 10.17487/RFC7657
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7657>

, November 2015,

<https://

,

.

,
Schulzrinne, H., Rao, A., Lanphier, R., Westerlund, M., and M. Stiemerling, Ed.
,
"Real-Time Streaming Protocol Version 2.0" RFC 7826 DOI 10.17487/RFC7826
December 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7826>

.

,

,

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 80

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

[RFC8122]

[RFC8285]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8856]

[RFC8866]

[T.38]

[TISPAN]

Lennox, J. and C. Holmberg "Connection-Oriented Media Transport over the
Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol in the Session Description Protocol
(SDP)" RFC 8122 DOI 10.17487/RFC8122
editor.org/info/rfc8122>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2017,

,

,

,

.

Singer, D., Desineni, H., and R. Even, Ed. "A General Mechanism for RTP Header
,
Extensions" RFC 8285 DOI 10.17487/RFC8285
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8285>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2017,

.

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

Camarillo, G., Kristensen, T., and C. Holmberg "Session Description Protocol
,
(SDP) Format for Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP) Streams" RFC 8856 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8856>
10.17487/RFC8856

, January 2021,

,

,

Begen, A., Kyzivat, P., Perkins, C., and M. Handley "SDP: Session Description
<https://www.rfc-
Protocol" RFC 8866 DOI 10.17487/RFC8866
editor.org/info/rfc8866>

, January 2021,

.

,

,

,

,

ITU-T "Procedures for real-time Group 3 facsimile communication over IP
networks" ITU-T Recommendation T.38
rec/T-REC-T.38/e>

, November 2015,

<https://www.itu.int/

.

,

,

ETSI "Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN); IMS-based IPTV stage 3 speciﬁcation"
Technical Speciﬁcation 183 063 V2.1.0
etsi_ts/183000_183099/183063/02.01.00_60/ts_183063v020100p.pdf>

<https://www.etsi.org/deliver/

, June 2008,

.

,

Acknowledgements

Cullen Jennings

I would like to thank
contributing text, and reviewing the draft of this document. I would also like to thank
Westerlund Christer Holmberg Jonathan Lennox Bo Burman Ari Keränen
suggesting structural changes that improved the document's readability.

 for suggesting the categories,
Magnus
 for

Flemming Andreasen

Dan Wing

, and

 and

,

,

,

,

I would like also to thank the following experts for their inputs and reviews as listed:

Flemming Andreasen

 (5.24, 5.32, 5.33, 14),

Rohan Mahy

 (5.54),

Eric Burger

 (5.26),

Christian Huitema

 (5.14),

Christer Holmberg

 (5.21, 5.26, 12.2, 12.3),

Richard Ejzak

 (5.44, 5.50, 5.51),

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 81

RFC 8859

SDP Attribute Multiplexing

January 2021

Colin Perkins

 (5.7, 5.8, 5.9, 5.55),

Magnus Westerlund

 (5.2, 5.3, 5.9, 5.27, 5.47, 6.1 - 6.3, 8.3, 7),

Roni Even

 (5.12, 5.27, 8.4),

Subha Dhesikan

 (5.6, 10),

Dan Wing

 (5.7, 5.12, 5.35, 5.39, 5.45),

Cullen Jennings

 (5.40),

Ali C Begen

 (5.1, 5.20, 5.22, 5.25, 5.38, 7.3, 8.2, 8.4, 8.6, 9.2, 13.1),

Bo Burman

 (7.2, 7.6),

Charles Eckel

 (5.15, 5.27, 5.28, 9.1, 8.5),

Paul Kyzivat

 (5.24),

Ian Johansson

 (5.15),

Saravanan Shanmugham

 (5.11),

Paul E Jones

 (5.30),

Rajesh Kumar

 (5.48),

Jonathan Lennox

 (5.36, 5, 15, 9.1, 11.1),

Mo Zanaty

 (5.4, 5.5, 5.23, 8.1, 8.3, 8.5, 12.1),

Christian Huitema

 (5.14),

Qin Wu

 (5.47, PM-Dir review),

Hans Stokking

 (5.43, 5.16),

Christian Groves

 (5.48, 5.52), and

.
Thomas Stach

I would like to thank
review, and

Sabrina Tanamal

 for the IANA review.

Chris Lonvick

 for the SECDIR review,

Dan Romascanu

 for the Gen-ART

Thanks to
Stephen Farrel Alissa Cooper Mirja Kühlewind

Ben Campbell

,

,

 for Area Director review suggestions. Thanks to

Spencer Dawkins

,

, and the entire IESG for their reviews.

Author's Address

Suhas Nandakumar
Cisco
170 West Tasman Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

 snandaku@cisco.com

Nandakumar

Standards Track

Page 82

