Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8767
1034, 1035, 2181
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721
D. Lawrence
Oracle

W. Kumari
Google

P. Sood
Google

RFC 8767
Serving Stale Data to Improve DNS Resiliency

Abstract

This document deﬁnes a method (serve-stale) for recursive resolvers to use stale DNS data to
avoid outages when authoritative nameservers cannot be reached to refresh expired data. One of
the motivations for serve-stale is to make the DNS more resilient to DoS attacks and thereby
make them less attractive as an attack vector. This document updates the deﬁnitions of TTL from
RFCs 1034 and 1035 so that data can be kept in the cache beyond the TTL expiry; it also updates
RFC 2181 by interpreting values with the high-order bit set as being positive, rather than 0, and
suggests a cap of 7 days.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8767

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Lawrence, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8767

DNS Serve-Stale

March 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Lawrence, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8767

DNS Serve-Stale

March 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Background

4.  Standards Action

5.  Example Method

6.  Implementation Considerations

7.  Implementation Caveats

8.  Implementation Status

9.  EDNS Option

10. Security Considerations

11. Privacy Considerations

12. NAT Considerations

13. IANA Considerations

14. References

14.1.  Normative References

14.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Traditionally, the Time To Live (TTL) of a DNS Resource Record (RR) has been understood to
represent the maximum number of seconds that a record can be used before it must be
discarded, based on its description and usage in

 and clariﬁcations in

.
[RFC2181]

[RFC1035]

This document expands the deﬁnition of the TTL to explicitly allow for expired data to be used in
the exceptional circumstance that a recursive resolver is unable to refresh the information. It is
predicated on the observation that authoritative answer unavailability can cause outages even
when the underlying data those servers would return is typically unchanged.

Lawrence, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8767

DNS Serve-Stale

March 2020

We describe a method below for this use of stale data, balancing the competing needs of
resiliency and freshness.

This document updates the deﬁnitions of TTL from
kept in the cache beyond the TTL expiry; it also updates
the high-order bit set as being positive, rather than 0, and also suggests a cap of 7 days.

[RFC1035]
 by interpreting values with

 and
[RFC2181]

 so that data can be

[RFC1034]

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

For a glossary of DNS terms, please see

[RFC8499]
.

3.  Background

There are a number of reasons why an authoritative server may become unreachable, including
Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks, network issues, and so on. If a recursive server is unable to
contact the authoritative servers for a query but still has relevant data that has aged past its TTL,
that information can still be useful for generating an answer under the metaphorical assumption
that "stale bread is better than no bread."

 says that the TTL "speciﬁes the time interval that the resource record

[RFC1035], Section 3.2.1
may be cached before the source of the information should again be consulted."
Section 4.1.3
record may be cached before it should be discarded."

 further says that the TTL "speciﬁes the time interval (in seconds) that the resource

[RFC1035],

A natural English interpretation of these remarks would seem to be clear enough that records
past their TTL expiration must not be used. However,
terminology of

, which softened the interpretation of "may" and "should".

 predates the more rigorous

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

 aimed to provide "the precise deﬁnition of the Time to Live," but
[RFC2181]
 was mostly concerned with the numeric range of values rather than data expiration
[RFC2181]
behavior. It does, however, close that section by noting, "The TTL speciﬁes a maximum time to
live, not a mandatory time to live." This wording again does not contain BCP 14 key words
[RFC2119]
TTL expiry.

, but it does convey the natural language connotation that data becomes unusable past

Section 8 of

As of the time of this writing, several large-scale operators use stale data for answers in some
way. A number of recursive resolver packages, including BIND, Knot Resolver, OpenDNS, and
Unbound, provide options to use stale data. Apple macOS can also use stale data as part of the
Happy Eyeballs algorithms in mDNSResponder. The collective operational experience is that
using stale data can provide signiﬁcant beneﬁt with minimal downside.

Lawrence, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8767

DNS Serve-Stale

March 2020

4.  Standards Action

The deﬁnition of TTL in Sections 3.2.1 and 4.1.3 of

[RFC1035]

 is amended to read:

TTL

MAY

 be cached before the source of the information

a 32-bit unsigned integer number of seconds that speciﬁes the duration that the resource
record
 again be consulted. Zero
values are interpreted to mean that the RR can only be used for the transaction in progress,
and should not be cached. Values
recommended cap of 604,800 seconds (7 days). If the data is unable to be authoritatively
refreshed when the TTL expires, the record
Sections 5 and 6 of [RFC8767] for details.

 be capped on the order of days to weeks, with a

 be used as though it is unexpired. See

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

[RFC2181]

Interpreting values that have the high-order bit set as being positive, rather than 0, is a change
from
rather than the 68 years allowed by the full 31 bits of
practice of major modern DNS resolvers.

, the rationale for which is explained in Section 6. Suggesting a cap of 7 days,

Section 8 of [RFC2181]

, reﬂects the current

When returning a response containing stale records, a recursive resolver
each expired record in the message to a value greater than 0, with a
seconds. See Section 6 for explanation.

MUST

 set the TTL of

RECOMMENDED

 value of 30

Answers from authoritative servers that have a DNS response code of either 0 (NoError) or 3
(NXDomain) and the Authoritative Answer (AA) bit set
data at the resolver. Answers from authoritative servers that have any other response code
SHOULD
See Section 6 for a discussion.

 be considered a failure to refresh the data and therefore leave any previous state intact.

 be considered to have refreshed the

MUST

5.  Example Method

There is more than one way a recursive resolver could responsibly implement this resiliency
feature while still respecting the intent of the TTL as a signal for when data is to be refreshed.

In this example method, four notable timers drive considerations for the use of stale data:

•

A client response timer, which is the maximum amount of time a recursive resolver should
allow between the receipt of a resolution request and sending its response.

•

A query resolution timer, which caps the total amount of time a recursive resolver spends
processing the query.

•

A failure recheck timer, which limits the frequency at which a failed lookup will be
attempted again.

•

A maximum stale timer, which caps the amount of time that records will be kept past their
expiration.

Lawrence, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8767

DNS Serve-Stale

March 2020

Most recursive resolvers already have the query resolution timer and, eﬀectively, some kind of
failure recheck timer. The client response timer and maximum stale timer are new concepts for
this mechanism.

When a recursive resolver receives a request, it should start the client response timer. This timer
is used to avoid client timeouts. It should be conﬁgurable, with a recommended value of 1.8
seconds as being just under a common timeout value of 2 seconds while still giving the resolver a
fair shot at resolving the name.

The resolver then checks its cache for any unexpired records that satisfy the request and returns
them if available. If it ﬁnds no relevant unexpired data and the Recursion Desired ﬂag is not set
in the request, it should immediately return the response without consulting the cache for
expired records. Typically, this response would be a referral to authoritative nameservers
covering the zone, but the speciﬁcs are implementation dependent.

If iterative lookups will be done, then the failure recheck timer is consulted. Attempts to refresh
from non-responsive or otherwise failing authoritative nameservers are recommended to be
done no more frequently than every 30 seconds. If this request was received within this period,
the cache may be immediately consulted for stale data to satisfy the request.

Outside the period of the failure recheck timer, the resolver should start the query resolution
timer and begin the iterative resolution process. This timer bounds the work done by the
resolver when contacting external authorities and is commonly around 10 to 30 seconds. If this
timer expires on an attempted lookup that is still being processed, the resolution eﬀort is
abandoned.

If the answer has not been completely determined by the time the client response timer has
elapsed, the resolver should then check its cache to see whether there is expired data that would
satisfy the request. If so, it adds that data to the response message with a TTL greater than 0 (as
speciﬁed in Section 4). The response is then sent to the client while the resolver continues its
attempt to refresh the data.

When no authorities are able to be reached during a resolution attempt, the resolver should
attempt to refresh the delegation and restart the iterative lookup process with the remaining
time on the query resolution timer. This resumption should be done only once per resolution
eﬀort.

Outside the resolution process, the maximum stale timer is used for cache management and is
independent of the query resolution process. This timer is conceptually diﬀerent from the
maximum cache TTL that exists in many resolvers, the latter being a clamp on the value of TTLs
as received from authoritative servers and recommended to be 7 days in the TTL deﬁnition in
Section 4. The maximum stale timer should be conﬁgurable. It deﬁnes the length of time after a
record expires that it should be retained in the cache. The suggested value is between 1 and 3
days.

Lawrence, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8767

DNS Serve-Stale

March 2020

6.  Implementation Considerations

This document mainly describes the issues behind serving stale data and intentionally does not
provide a formal algorithm. The concept is not overly complex, and the details are best left to
resolver authors to implement in their codebases. The processing of serve-stale is a local
operation, and consistent variables between deployments are not needed for interoperability.
However, we would like to highlight the impact of various implementation choices, starting with
the timers involved.

The most obvious of these is the maximum stale timer. If this variable is too large, it could cause
excessive cache memory usage, but if it is too small, the serve-stale technique becomes less
eﬀective, as the record may not be in the cache to be used if needed. Shorter values, even less
than a day, can eﬀectively handle the vast majority of outages. Longer values, as much as a week,
give time for monitoring systems to notice a resolution problem and for human intervention to
ﬁx it; operational experience has been that sometimes the right people can be hard to track down
and unfortunately slow to remedy the situation.

Increased memory consumption could be mitigated by prioritizing removal of stale records over
non-expired records during cache exhaustion. Eviction strategies could consider additional
factors, including the last time of use or the popularity of a record, to retain active but stale
records. A feature to manually ﬂush only stale records could also be useful.

The client response timer is another variable that deserves consideration. If this value is too
short, there exists the risk that stale answers may be used even when the authoritative server is
actually reachable but slow; this may result in undesirable answers being returned. Conversely,
waiting too long will negatively impact user experience.

The balance for the failure recheck timer is responsiveness in detecting the renewed availability
of authorities versus the extra resource use for resolution. If this variable is set too large, stale
answers may continue to be returned even after the authoritative server is reachable; per
[RFC2308], Section 7
authoritative servers may be targeted with a signiﬁcant amount of excess traﬃc.

, this should be no more than 5 minutes. If this variable is too small,

Regarding the TTL to set on stale records in the response, historically TTLs of 0 seconds have
been problematic for some implementations, and negative values can't eﬀectively be
communicated to existing software. Other very short TTLs could lead to congestive collapse as
TTL-respecting clients rapidly try to refresh. The recommended value of 30 seconds not only
sidesteps those potential problems with no practical negative consequences, it also rate-limits
further queries from any client that honors the TTL, such as a forwarding resolver.

[RFC2181]

 treating it as zero, the rationale here is basically one of engineering

As for the change to treat a TTL with the high-order bit set as positive and then clamping it, as
opposed to
simplicity versus an inconsequential operational history. Negative TTLs had no rational
intentional meaning that wouldn't have been satisﬁed by just sending 0 instead, and similarly
there was realistically no practical purpose for sending TTLs of 2^25 seconds (1 year) or more.
There's also no record of TTLs in the wild having the most signiﬁcant bit set in the DNS

Lawrence, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8767

DNS Serve-Stale

March 2020

Operations, Analysis, and Research Center's (DNS-OARC's) "Day in the Life" samples
no apparent reason for operators to use them intentionally, that leaves either errors or non-
standard experiments as explanations as to why such TTLs might be encountered, with neither
providing an obviously compelling reason as to why having the leading bit set should be treated
diﬀerently from having any of the next eleven bits set and then capped per Section 4.

[DITL]

. With

Another implementation consideration is the use of stale nameserver addresses for lookups. This
is mentioned explicitly because, in some resolvers, getting the addresses for nameservers is a
separate path from a normal cache lookup. If authoritative server addresses are not able to be
refreshed, resolution can possibly still be successful if the authoritative servers themselves are
up. For instance, consider an attack on a top-level domain that takes its nameservers oﬄine;
serve-stale resolvers that had expired glue addresses for subdomains within that top-level
domain would still be able to resolve names within those subdomains, even those it had not
previously looked up.

The directive in Section 4 that only NoError and NXDomain responses should invalidate any
previously associated answer stems from the fact that no other RCODEs that a resolver normally
encounters make any assertions regarding the name in the question or any data associated with
it. This comports with existing resolver behavior where a failed lookup (say, during prefetching)
doesn't impact the existing cache state. Some authoritative server operators have said that they
would prefer stale answers to be used in the event that their servers are responding with errors
like ServFail instead of giving true authoritative answers. Implementers
stale answers in this situation.

 decide to return

MAY

Since the goal of serve-stale is to provide resiliency for all obvious errors to refresh data, these
other RCODEs are treated as though they are equivalent to not getting an authoritative response.
Although NXDomain for a previously existing name might well be an error, it is not handled that
way because there is no eﬀective way to distinguish operator intent for legitimate cases versus
error cases.

During discussion in the IETF, it was suggested that, if all authorities return responses with an
RCODE of Refused, it may be an explicit signal to take down the zone from servers that still have
the zone's delegation pointed to them. Refused, however, is also overloaded to mean multiple
possible failures that could represent transient conﬁguration failures. Operational experience
has shown that purposely returning Refused is a poor way to achieve an explicit takedown of a
zone compared to either updating the delegation or returning NXDomain with a suitable SOA for
extended negative caching. Implementers
authorities returning Refused as preempting the use of stale data.

 nonetheless consider whether to treat all

MAY

7.  Implementation Caveats

Stale data is used only when refreshing has failed in order to adhere to the original intent of the
design of the DNS and the behavior expected by operators. If stale data were to always be used
immediately and then a cache refresh attempted after the client response has been sent, the
resolver would frequently be sending data that it would have had no trouble refreshing. Because
modern resolvers use techniques like prefetching and request coalescing for eﬃciency, it is not

Lawrence, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8767

DNS Serve-Stale

March 2020

necessary that every client request needs to trigger a new lookup ﬂow in the presence of stale
data, but rather that a good-faith eﬀort has been recently made to refresh the stale data before it
is delivered to any client.

It is important to continue the resolution attempt after the stale response has been sent, until the
query resolution timeout, because some pathological resolutions can take many seconds to
succeed as they cope with unavailable servers, bad networks, and other problems. Stopping the
resolution attempt when the response with expired data has been sent would mean that answers
in these pathological cases would never be refreshed.

The continuing prohibition against using data with a 0-second TTL beyond the current
transaction explicitly extends to it being unusable even for stale fallback, as it is not to be cached
at all.

Be aware that Canonical Name (CNAME) and DNAME records
cache with other records at the same owner name can cause surprising results. This was
observed with an initial implementation in BIND when a hostname changed from having an IPv4
Address (A) record to a CNAME. The version of BIND being used did not evict other types in the
cache when a CNAME was received, which in normal operations is not a signiﬁcant issue.
However, after both records expired and the authorities became unavailable, the fallback to stale
answers returned the older A instead of the newer CNAME.

 mingled in the expired

[RFC6672]

8.  Implementation Status

The algorithm described in Section 5 was originally implemented as a patch to BIND 9.7.0. It has
been in use on Akamai's production network since 2011; it eﬀectively smoothed over transient
failures and longer outages that would have resulted in major incidents. The patch was
contributed to the Internet Systems Consortium, and the functionality is now available in BIND
9.12 and later via the options stale-answer-enable, stale-answer-ttl, and max-stale-ttl.

Unbound has a similar feature for serving stale answers and will respond with stale data
immediately if it has recently tried and failed to refresh the answer by prefetching. Starting from
version 1.10.0, Unbound can also be conﬁgured to follow the algorithm described in Section 5.
Both behaviors can be conﬁgured and ﬁne-tuned with the available serve-expired-* options.

Knot Resolver has a demo module here:
serve_stale.html>
.

<https://knot-resolver.readthedocs.io/en/stable/modules-

Apple's system resolvers are also known to use stale answers, but the details are not readily
available.

, the authors detected some use of stale answers by resolvers when authorities came

In the research paper "When the Dike Breaks: Dissecting DNS Defenses During DDoS"
[DikeBreaks]
under attack. Their research results suggest that more widespread adoption of the technique
would signiﬁcantly improve resiliency for the large number of requests that fail or experience
abnormally long resolution times during an attack.

Lawrence, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8767

DNS Serve-Stale

March 2020

9.  EDNS Option

[RFC6891]
During the discussion of serve-stale in the IETF, it was suggested that an EDNS option
should be available. One proposal was to use it to opt in to getting data that is possibly stale, and
another was to signal when stale data has been used for a response.

The opt-in use case was rejected, as the technique was meant to be immediately useful in
improving DNS resiliency for all clients.

The reporting case was ultimately also rejected because even the simpler version of a proposed
option was still too much bother to implement for too little perceived value.

10.  Security Considerations

The most obvious security issue is the increased likelihood of DNSSEC validation failures when
using stale data because signatures could be returned outside their validity period. Stale negative
records can increase the time window where newly published TLSA or DS RRs may not be used
due to cached NSEC or NSEC3 records. These scenarios would only be an issue if the authoritative
servers are unreachable (the only time the techniques in this document are used), and thus
serve-stale does not introduce a new failure in place of what would have otherwise been success.

Additionally, bad actors have been known to use DNS caches to keep records alive even after
their authorities have gone away. The serve-stale feature potentially makes the attack easier,
although without introducing a new risk. In addition, attackers could combine this with a DDoS
attack on authoritative servers with the explicit intent of having stale information cached for a
longer period of time. But if attackers have this capacity, they probably could do much worse
than prolonging the life of old data.

[CloudStrife]

, it was demonstrated how stale DNS data, namely hostnames pointing to

In
addresses that are no longer in use by the owner of the name, can be used to co-opt security -- for
example, to get domain-validated certiﬁcates fraudulently issued to an attacker. While this
document does not create a new vulnerability in this area, it does potentially enlarge the window
in which such an attack could be made. A proposed mitigation is that certiﬁcate authorities
should fully look up each name starting at the DNS root for every name lookup. Alternatively,
certiﬁcate authorities should use a resolver that is not serving stale data.

11.  Privacy Considerations

This document does not add any practical new privacy issues.

12.  NAT Considerations

The method described here is not aﬀected by the use of NAT devices.

Lawrence, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8767

DNS Serve-Stale

March 2020

13.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

14.  References

14.1.  Normative References

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2181]

[RFC2308]

[RFC8174]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

.

,

,
Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and speciﬁcation" STD 13
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Elz, R. and R. Bush "Clariﬁcations to the DNS Speciﬁcation" RFC 2181 DOI
10.17487/RFC2181

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2181>

,
, July 1997,

,

.

Andrews, M. "Negative Caching of DNS Queries (DNS NCACHE)" RFC 2308 DOI
10.17487/RFC2308

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2308>

, March 1998,

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

14.2.  Informative References

[CloudStrife]

[DikeBreaks]

[DITL]

[RFC6672]

Borgolte, K., Fiebig, T., Hao, S., Kruegel, C., and G. Vigna "Cloud Strife: Mitigating
,
the Security Risks of Domain-Validated Certiﬁcates" DOI
10.1145/3232755.3232859 ACM 2018 Applied Networking Research Workshop
July 2018,
ndss2018_06A-4_Borgolte_paper.pdf>

<https://www.ndss-symposium.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/02/

,

,

,

.

Moura, G.C.M., Heidemann, J., Müller, M., Schmidt, R. de O., and M. Davids
"When the Dike Breaks: Dissecting DNS Defenses During DDoS" DOI
10.1145/3278532.3278534 ACM 2018 Internet Measurement Conference
2018,

<https://www.isi.edu/~johnh/PAPERS/Moura18b.pdf>

,

,

.

,

, October

,
DNS-OARC "DITL Traces and Analysis"
oarc.net/oarc/data/ditl>

.

, January 2018,

<https://www.dns-

Rose, S. and W. Wijngaards "DNAME Redirection in the DNS" RFC 6672 DOI
10.17487/RFC6672

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6672>

, June 2012,

,
.

,

,

Lawrence, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8767

DNS Serve-Stale

March 2020

[RFC6891]

[RFC8499]

Damas, J., Graﬀ, M., and P. Vixie "Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0))"
STD 75 RFC 6891 DOI 10.17487/RFC6891
editor.org/info/rfc6891>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2013,

,

,

,

.

,

Hoﬀman, P., Sullivan, A., and K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC
,
8499 DOI 10.17487/RFC8499
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8499>

, January 2019,

.

,

,

,

Acknowledgements

,

The authors wish to thank
Harold Tatuya Jinmei Matti Klock Jason Moreau Giovane Moura Jean Roy Mukund Sivaraman
,
,
Davey Song Paul Vixie Ralf Weber
, and
Hoﬀman

Brian Carpenter Vladimir Cunat Robert Edmonds Tony Finch Bob
,

 deserves special thanks for submitting a number of Pull Requests.

 for their review and feedback.

Paul Wouters

Paul

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Thank you also to the following members of the IESG for their ﬁnal review:
Benjamin Kaduk Suresh Krishnan Mirja Kühlewind

Adam Roach

, and

,

,

.

Roman Danyliw

,

Authors' Addresses

David C Lawrence
Oracle
Email:

 tale@dd.org

Warren "Ace" Kumari
Google
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

 warren@kumari.net

,

Puneet Sood
Google
Email:

 puneets@google.com

Lawrence, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

