Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8826
Standards Track
January 2021
2070-1721
E. Rescorla
Mozilla

RFC 8826
Security Considerations for WebRTC

Abstract

WebRTC is a protocol suite for use with real-time applications that can be deployed in browsers --
"real-time communication on the Web". This document deﬁnes the WebRTC threat model and
analyzes the security threats of WebRTC in that model.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8826

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modiﬁcations of

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modiﬁed
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  The Browser Threat Model

3.1.  Access to Local Resources

3.2.  Same-Origin Policy

3.3.  Bypassing SOP: CORS, WebSockets, and Consent to Communicate

4.  Security for WebRTC Applications

4.1.  Access to Local Devices

4.1.1.  Threats from Screen Sharing

4.1.2.  Calling Scenarios and User Expectations

4.1.2.1.  Dedicated Calling Services

4.1.2.2.  Calling the Site You're On

4.1.3.  Origin-Based Security

4.1.4.  Security Properties of the Calling Page

4.2.  Communications Consent Veriﬁcation

4.2.1.  ICE

4.2.2.  Masking

4.2.3.  Backward Compatibility

4.2.4.  IP Location Privacy

4.3.  Communications Security

4.3.1.  Protecting Against Retrospective Compromise

4.3.2.  Protecting Against During-Call Attack

4.3.2.1.  Key Continuity

4.3.2.2.  Short Authentication Strings

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

4.3.2.3.  Third-Party Identity

4.3.2.4.  Page Access to Media

4.3.3.  Malicious Peers

4.4.  Privacy Considerations

4.4.1.  Correlation of Anonymous Calls

4.4.2.  Browser Fingerprinting

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

The Real-Time Communications on the Web (RTCWEB) Working Group has standardized
protocols for real-time communications between Web browsers, generally called "WebRTC"
[RFC8825]
Web conferencing, and direct data transfer. Unlike most conventional real-time systems (e.g., SIP-
based
server. A simple case is shown below.

. The major use cases for WebRTC technology are real-time audio and/or video calls,

 soft phones), WebRTC communications are directly controlled by some Web

[RFC3261]

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

                          +----------------+
                          |                |
                          |   Web Server   |
                          |                |
                          +----------------+
                              ^        ^
                             /          \
                    HTTPS   /            \   HTTPS
                      or   /              \   or
               WebSockets /                \ WebSockets
                         v                  v
                      JS API              JS API
                +-----------+            +-----------+
                |           |    Media   |           |
                |  Browser  |<---------->|  Browser  |
                |           |            |           |
                +-----------+            +-----------+
                    Alice                     Bob

Figure 1: A Simple WebRTC System

In the system shown in Figure 1, Alice and Bob both have WebRTC-enabled browsers and they
visit some Web server which operates a calling service. Each of their browsers exposes
standardized JavaScript (JS) calling APIs (implemented as browser built-ins) which are used by
the Web server to set up a call between Alice and Bob. The Web server also serves as the
signaling channel to transport control messages between the browsers. While this system is
topologically similar to a conventional SIP-based system (with the Web server acting as the
signaling service and browsers acting as softphones), control has moved to the central Web
server; the browser simply provides API points that are used by the calling service. As with any
Web application, the Web server can move logic between the server and JavaScript in the
browser, but regardless of where the code is executing, it is ultimately under control of the
server.

It should be immediately apparent that this type of system poses new security challenges beyond
those of a conventional Voice over IP (VoIP) system. In particular, it needs to contend with
malicious calling services. For example, if the calling service can cause the browser to make a
call at any time to any callee of its choice, then this facility can be used to bug a user's computer
without their knowledge, simply by placing a call to some recording service. More subtly, if the
exposed APIs allow the server to instruct the browser to send arbitrary content, then they can be
used to bypass ﬁrewalls or mount denial-of-service (DoS) attacks. Any successful system will
need to be resistant to this and other attacks.

A companion document
issues raised in this document.

[RFC8827]

 describes a security architecture intended to address the

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  The Browser Threat Model

The security requirements for WebRTC follow directly from the requirement that the browser's
job is to protect the user. Huang et al.
guarantee as follows:

 summarize the core browser security

[huang-w2sp]

Users can safely visit arbitrary web sites and execute scripts provided by those sites.

It is important to realize that this includes sites hosting arbitrary malicious scripts. The
motivation for this requirement is simple: it is trivial for attackers to divert users to sites of their
choice. For instance, an attacker can purchase display advertisements which direct the user
(either automatically or via user clicking) to their site, at which point the browser will execute
the attacker's scripts. Thus, it is important that it be safe to view arbitrarily malicious pages. Of
course, browsers inevitably have bugs which cause them to fall short of this goal, but any new
WebRTC functionality must be designed with the intent to meet this standard. The remainder of
this section provides more background on the existing Web security model.

In this model, then, the browser acts as a Trusted Computing Base (TCB) both from the user's
perspective and to some extent from the server's. While HTML and JavaScript provided by the
server can cause the browser to execute a variety of actions, those scripts operate in a sandbox
that isolates them both from the user's computer and from each other, as detailed below.

Conventionally, we refer to either Web attackers, who are able to induce you to visit their sites
but do not control the network, or network attackers, who are able to control your network.
Network attackers correspond to the
 "Internet Threat Model". Note that in some cases,
a network attacker is also a Web attacker, since transport protocols that do not provide integrity
protection allow the network to inject traﬃc as if they were any communications peer. TLS, and
HTTPS in particular, prevent against these attacks, but when analyzing HTTP connections, we
must assume that traﬃc is going to the attacker.

[RFC3552]

3.1.  Access to Local Resources

While the browser has access to local resources such as keying material, ﬁles, the camera, and
the microphone, it strictly limits or forbids Web servers from accessing those same resources.
For instance, while it is possible to produce an HTML form which will allow ﬁle upload, a script
cannot do so without user consent and in fact cannot even suggest a speciﬁc ﬁle (e.g., /etc/
passwd); the user must explicitly select the ﬁle and consent to its upload. (Note: In many cases,

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

browsers are explicitly designed to avoid dialogs with the semantics of "click here to bypass
[cranor-wolf]
security checks", as extensive research
 shows that users are prone to consent
under such circumstances.)

Similarly, while Flash programs (SWFs)
explicitly require that the user consent to that access. In addition, some resources simply cannot
be accessed from the browser at all. For instance, there is no real way to run speciﬁc executables
directly from a script (though the user can of course be induced to download executable ﬁles and
run them).

 can access the camera and microphone, they

[SWF]

3.2.  Same-Origin Policy

Many other resources are accessible but isolated. For instance, while scripts are allowed to make
HTTP requests via the fetch() API (see
from the same origin from whence the script came
responses. Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)
escape hatch from this restriction, as described below. This same-origin policy (SOP) prevents
server A from mounting attacks on server B via the user's browser, which protects both the user
(e.g., from misuse of their credentials) and server B (e.g., from DoS attacks).

) when requests are made to a server other than

 they are not able to read the

 and WebSockets

 provide an

[RFC6455]

[RFC6454]

[fetch]

[fetch]

More generally, SOP forces scripts from each site to run in their own, isolated, sandboxes. While
there are techniques to allow them to interact, those interactions generally must be mutually
consensual (by each site) and are limited to certain channels. For instance, multiple pages/
browser panes from the same origin can read each other's JS variables, but pages from diﬀerent
origins -- or even IFRAMEs from diﬀerent origins on the same page -- cannot.

3.3.  Bypassing SOP: CORS, WebSockets, and Consent to Communicate

While SOP serves an important security function, it also makes it inconvenient to write certain
classes of applications. In particular, mash-ups, in which a script from origin A uses resources
[fetch]
from origin B, can only be achieved via a certain amount of hackery. The W3C CORS spec
is a response to this demand. In CORS, when a script from origin A executes a potentially unsafe
cross-origin request, the browser instead contacts the target server to determine whether it is
willing to allow cross-origin requests from A. If it is so willing, the browser then allows the
request. This consent veriﬁcation process is designed to safely allow cross-origin requests.

While CORS is designed to allow cross-origin HTTP requests, WebSockets
origin establishment of transparent channels. Once a WebSockets connection has been
established from a script to a site, the script can exchange any traﬃc it likes without being
required to frame it as a series of HTTP request/response transactions. As with CORS, a
WebSockets transaction starts with a consent veriﬁcation stage to avoid allowing scripts to
simply send arbitrary data to another origin.

[RFC6455]

 allows cross-

While consent veriﬁcation is conceptually simple -- just do a handshake before you start
exchanging the real data -- experience has shown that designing a correct consent veriﬁcation
system is diﬃcult. In particular, Huang et al.
existing Java and Flash consent veriﬁcation techniques and in a simpliﬁed version of the

 have shown vulnerabilities in the

[huang-w2sp]

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

WebSockets handshake. It is important to be wary of CROSS-PROTOCOL attacks in which the
attacking script generates traﬃc which is acceptable to some non-Web protocol state machine. In
order to resist this form of attack, WebSockets incorporates a masking technique intended to
randomize the bits on the wire, thus making it more diﬃcult to generate traﬃc which resembles
a given protocol.

4.  Security for WebRTC Applications

4.1.  Access to Local Devices

As discussed in Section 1, allowing arbitrary sites to initiate calls violates the core Web security
guarantee; without some access restrictions on local devices, any malicious site could simply bug
a user. At minimum, then, it
 be possible for arbitrary sites to initiate calls to arbitrary
locations without user consent. This immediately raises the question, however, of what should be
the scope of user consent.

MUST NOT

In order for the user to make an intelligent decision about whether to allow a call (and hence
their camera and microphone input to be routed somewhere), they must understand either who
is requesting access, where the media is going, or both. As detailed below, there are two basic
conceptual models:

1.

You are sending your media to entity A because you want to talk to entity A (e.g., your
mother).

2.

Entity A (e.g., a calling service) asks to access the user's devices with the assurance that it will
transfer the media to entity B (e.g., your mother).

In either case, identity is at the heart of any consent decision. Moreover, the identity of the party
the browser is connecting to is all that the browser can meaningfully enforce; if you are calling
A, A can simply forward the media to C. Similarly, if you authorize A to place a call to B, A can
call C instead. In either case, all the browser is able to do is verify and check authorization for
whoever is controlling where the media goes. The target of the media can of course advertise a
security/privacy policy, but this is not something that the browser can enforce. Even so, there are
a variety of diﬀerent consent scenarios that motivate diﬀerent technical consent mechanisms.
We discuss these mechanisms in the sections below.

It's important to understand that consent to access local devices is largely orthogonal to consent
to transmit various kinds of data over the network (see Section 4.2). Consent for device access is
largely a matter of protecting the user's privacy from malicious sites. By contrast, consent to send
network traﬃc is about preventing the user's browser from being used to attack its local
network. Thus, we need to ensure communications consent even if the site is not able to access
the camera and microphone at all (hence WebSockets's consent mechanism) and similarly, we
need to be concerned with the site accessing the user's camera and microphone even if the data
is to be sent back to the site via conventional HTTP-based network mechanisms such as HTTP
POST.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

4.1.1.  Threats from Screen Sharing

In addition to camera and microphone access, there has been demand for screen and/or
application sharing functionality. Unfortunately, the security implications of this functionality
are much harder for users to intuitively analyze than for camera and microphone access. (See
<https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webrtc/2013Mar/0024.html>

 for a full analysis.)

The most obvious threats are simply those of "oversharing". I.e., the user may believe they are
sharing a window when in fact they are sharing an application, or may forget they are sharing
their whole screen, icons, notiﬁcations, and all. This is already an issue with existing screen
sharing technologies and is made somewhat worse if a partially trusted site is responsible for
asking for the resource to be shared rather than having the user propose it.

A less obvious threat involves the impact of screen sharing on the Web security model. A key part
of the Same-Origin Policy is that HTML or JS from site A can reference content from site B and
cause the browser to load it, but (unless explicitly permitted) cannot see the result. However, if a
Web application from a site is screen sharing the browser, then this violates that invariant, with
serious security consequences. For example, an attacker site might request screen sharing and
then brieﬂy open up a new window to the user's bank or webmail account, using screen sharing
to read the resulting displayed content. A more sophisticated attack would be to open up a source
view window to a site and use the screen sharing result to view anti-cross-site request forgery
tokens.

These threats suggest that screen/application sharing might need a higher level of user consent
than access to the camera or microphone.

4.1.2.  Calling Scenarios and User Expectations

While a large number of possible calling scenarios are possible, the scenarios discussed in this
section illustrate many of the diﬃculties of identifying the relevant scope of consent.

4.1.2.1.  Dedicated Calling Services

The ﬁrst scenario we consider is a dedicated calling service. In this case, the user has a
relationship with a calling site and repeatedly makes calls on it. It is likely that rather than
having to give permission for each call, the user will want to give the calling service long-term
access to the camera and microphone. This is a natural ﬁt for a long-term consent mechanism
(e.g., installing an app store "application" to indicate permission for the calling service). A variant
of the dedicated calling service is a gaming site (e.g., a poker site) which hosts a dedicated calling
service to allow players to call each other.

With any kind of service where the user may use the same service to talk to many diﬀerent
people, there is a question about whether the user can know who they are talking to. If I grant
permission to calling service A to make calls on my behalf, then I am implicitly granting it
permission to bug my computer whenever it wants. This suggests another consent model in
which a site is authorized to make calls but only to certain target entities (identiﬁed via media-
plane cryptographic mechanisms as described in Section 4.3.2 and especially Section 4.3.2.3).

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

Note that the question of consent here is related to but distinct from the question of peer
identity: I might be willing to allow a calling site to in general initiate calls on my behalf but still
have some calls via that site where I can be sure that the site is not listening in.

4.1.2.2.  Calling the Site You're On

Another simple scenario is calling the site you're actually visiting. The paradigmatic case here is
the "click here to talk to a representative" windows that appear on many shopping sites. In this
case, the user's expectation is that they are calling the site they're actually visiting. However, it is
unlikely that they want to provide a general consent to such a site; just because I want some
information on a car doesn't mean that I want the car manufacturer to be able to activate my
microphone whenever they please. Thus, this suggests the need for a second consent mechanism
where I only grant consent for the duration of a given call. As described in Section 3.1, great care
must be taken in the design of this interface to avoid the users just clicking through. Note also
that the user interface chrome, which is the representation through which the user interacts
with the user agent itself, must clearly display elements showing that the call is continuing in
order to avoid attacks where the calling site just leaves it up indeﬁnitely but shows a Web UI that
implies otherwise.

4.1.3.  Origin-Based Security

Now that we have described the calling scenarios, we can start to reason about the security
requirements.

As discussed in Section 3.2, the basic unit of Web sandboxing is the origin, and so it is natural to
scope consent to the origin. Speciﬁcally, a script from origin A
 only be allowed to initiate
communications (and hence to access the camera and microphone) if the user has speciﬁcally
authorized access for that origin. It is of course technically possible to have coarser-scoped
permissions, but because the Web model is scoped to the origin, this creates a diﬃcult mismatch.

MUST

Arguably, the origin is not ﬁne-grained enough. Consider the situation where Alice visits a site
and authorizes it to make a single call. If consent is expressed solely in terms of the origin, then
on any future visit to that site (including one induced via a mash-up or ad network), the site can
bug Alice's computer, use the computer to place bogus calls, etc. While in principle Alice could
grant and then revoke the privilege, in practice privileges accumulate; if we are concerned about
this attack, something else is needed. There are a number of potential countermeasures to this
sort of issue.

Individual Consent

Ask the user for permission for each call.

Callee-oriented Consent

Only allow calls to a given user.

Cryptographic Consent

Only allow calls to a given set of peer keying material or to a cryptographically established
identity.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

Unfortunately, none of these approaches is satisfactory for all cases. As discussed above,
individual consent puts the user's approval in the UI ﬂow for every call. Not only does this
quickly become annoying but it can train the user to simply click "OK", at which point the
consent becomes useless. Thus, while it may be necessary to have individual consent in some
cases, this is not a suitable solution for (for instance) the calling service case. Where necessary,
in-ﬂow user interfaces must be carefully designed to avoid the risk of the user blindly clicking
through.

The other two options are designed to restrict calls to a given target. Callee-oriented consent
provided by the calling site would not work well because a malicious site can claim that the user
is calling any user of their choice. One ﬁx for this is to tie calls to a cryptographically established
identity. While not suitable for all cases, this approach may be useful for some. If we consider the
case of advertising, it's not particularly convenient to require the advertiser to instantiate an
IFRAME on the hosting site just to get permission; a more convenient approach is to
cryptographically tie the advertiser's certiﬁcate to the communication directly. We're still tying
permissions to the origin here, but to the media origin (and/or destination) rather than to the
Web origin.

 describes mechanisms which facilitate this sort of consent.

[RFC8827]

Another case where media-level cryptographic identity makes sense is when a user really does
not trust the calling site. For instance, I might be worried that the calling service will attempt to
bug my computer, but I also want to be able to conveniently call my friends. If consent is tied to
particular communications endpoints, then my risk is limited. Naturally, it is somewhat
challenging to design UI primitives which express this sort of policy. The problem becomes even
more challenging in multi-user calling cases.

4.1.4.  Security Properties of the Calling Page

Origin-based security is intended to secure against Web attackers. However, we must also
consider the case of network attackers. Consider the case where I have granted permission to a
calling service by an origin that has the HTTP scheme, e.g., <http://calling-service.example.com>.
If I ever use my computer on an unsecured network (e.g., a hotspot or if my own home wireless
network is insecure), and browse any HTTP site, then an attacker can bug my computer. The
attack proceeds like this:

1.

I connect to <http://anything.example.org/>. Note that this site is unaﬃliated with the calling
service.

2.

The attacker modiﬁes my HTTP connection to inject an IFRAME (or a redirect) to <http://
calling-service.example.com>.

3.

The attacker forges the response from <http://calling-service.example.com/> to inject JS to
initiate a call to themselves.

Note that this attack does not depend on the media being insecure. Because the call is to the
attacker, it is also encrypted to them. Moreover, it need not be executed immediately; the
attacker can "infect" the origin semi-permanently (e.g., with a Web worker or a popped-up
window that is hidden under the main window) and thus be able to bug me long after I have left
the infected network. This risk is created by allowing calls at all from a page fetched over HTTP.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

[ﬁner-grained]

[RFC2818]
Even if calls are only possible from HTTPS
(e.g., JavaScript) from an untrusted site, that JavaScript is executed in the security context of the
page
. This could lead to compromise of a call even if the parent page is safe. Note:
This issue is not restricted to pages which contain untrusted content. If any page from a given
origin ever loads JavaScript from an attacker, then it is possible for that attacker to infect the
browser's notion of that origin semi-permanently.

 sites, if those sites include active content

4.2.  Communications Consent Veriﬁcation

As discussed in Section 3.3, allowing Web applications unrestricted network access via the
browser introduces the risk of using the browser as an attack platform against machines which
would not otherwise be accessible to the malicious site, for instance, because they are
topologically restricted (e.g., behind a ﬁrewall or NAT). In order to prevent this form of attack as
well as cross-protocol attacks, it is important to require that the target of traﬃc explicitly consent
to receiving the traﬃc in question. Until that consent has been veriﬁed for a given endpoint,
traﬃc other than the consent handshake
MUST NOT

 be sent to that endpoint.

Note that consent veriﬁcation is not suﬃcient to prevent overuse of network resources. Because
WebRTC allows for a Web site to create data ﬂows between two browser instances without user
consent, it is possible for a malicious site to chew up a signiﬁcant amount of a user's bandwidth
without incurring signiﬁcant costs to themselves by setting up such a channel to another user.
However, as a practical matter there are a large number of Web sites which can act as data
sources, so an attacker can at least use downlink bandwidth with existing Web APIs. However,
this potential DoS vector reinforces the need for adequate congestion control for WebRTC
protocols to ensure that they play fair with other demands on the user's bandwidth.

4.2.1.  ICE

Verifying receiver consent requires some sort of explicit handshake, but conveniently we already
need one in order to do NAT hole-punching. Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)
[RFC8445]
 includes a handshake designed to verify that the receiving element wishes to receive
traﬃc from the sender. It is important to remember here that the site initiating ICE is presumed
malicious; in order for the handshake to be secure, the receiving element
receipt/knowledge of some value not available to the site (thus preventing the site from forging
responses). In order to achieve this objective with ICE, the Session Traversal Utilities for NAT
(STUN) transaction IDs must be generated by the browser and
the initiating script, even via a diagnostic interface. Verifying receiver consent also requires
verifying the receiver wants to receive traﬃc from a particular sender, and at this time; for
example, a malicious site may simply attempt ICE to known servers that are using ICE for other
sessions. ICE provides this veriﬁcation as well, by using the STUN credentials as a form of per-
session shared secret. Those credentials are known to the Web application, but would need to
also be known and used by the STUN-receiving element to be useful.

 be made available to

 demonstrate

MUST NOT

MUST

There also needs to be some mechanism for the browser to verify that the target of the traﬃc
continues to wish to receive it. Because ICE keepalives are indications, they will not work here.
[RFC7675]

 describes the mechanism for providing consent freshness.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

4.2.2.  Masking

[huang-w2sp]

Once consent is veriﬁed, there still is some concern about misinterpretation attacks as described
. This does not seem like it is of serious concern with DTLS because
by Huang et al.
the ICE handshake enforces receiver consent and there is little evidence of passive DTLS proxies
of the type studied by Huang. However, because RTCWEB can run over TCP there is some
concern that attackers might control the ciphertext by controlling the plaintext input to SCTP.
This risk is only partially mitigated by the fact that the SCTP stack controls the framing of the
packets.

Note that in principle an attacker could exert some control over Secure Real-time Transport
Protocol (SRTP) packets by using a combination of the WebAudio API and extremely tight timing
control. The primary risk here seems to be carriage of SRTP over Traversal Using Relays around
NAT (TURN) TCP. However, as SRTP packets have an extremely characteristic packet header it
seems unlikely that any but the most aggressive intermediaries would be confused into thinking
that another application-layer protocol was in use.

4.2.3.  Backward Compatibility

Note: The RTCWEB WG ultimately decided to require ICE. This section provides
context for that decision.

A requirement to use ICE limits compatibility with legacy non-ICE clients. It seems unsafe to
completely remove the requirement for some check. All proposed checks have the common
feature that the browser sends some message to the candidate traﬃc recipient and refuses to
send other traﬃc until that message has been replied to. The message/reply pair must be
generated in such a way that an attacker who controls the Web application cannot forge them,
generally by having the message contain some secret value that must be incorporated (e.g.,
echoed, hashed into, etc.). Non-ICE candidates for this role (in cases where the legacy endpoint
has a public address) include:

•

STUN checks without using ICE (i.e., the non-RTC-web endpoint sets up a STUN responder).

•

Use of the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) as an implicit reachability check.

In the RTCP approach, the WebRTC endpoint is allowed to send a limited number of RTP packets
prior to receiving consent. This allows a short window of attack. In addition, some legacy
endpoints do not support RTCP, so this is a much more expensive solution for such endpoints, for
which it would likely be easier to implement ICE. For these two reasons, an RTCP-based approach
does not seem to address the security issue satisfactorily.

In the STUN approach, the WebRTC endpoint is able to verify that the recipient is running some
kind of STUN endpoint but unless the STUN responder is integrated with the ICE username/
password establishment system, the WebRTC endpoint cannot verify that the recipient consents
to this particular call. This may be an issue if existing STUN servers are operated at addresses
that are not able to handle bandwidth-based attacks. Thus, this approach does not seem
satisfactory either.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

If the systems are tightly integrated (i.e., the STUN endpoint responds with responses
authenticated with ICE credentials), then this issue does not exist. However, such a design is very
close to an ICE-Lite implementation (indeed, arguably is one). An intermediate approach would
be to have a STUN extension that indicated that one was responding to WebRTC checks but not
computing integrity checks based on the ICE credentials. This would allow the use of standalone
STUN servers without the risk of confusing them with legacy STUN servers. If a non-ICE legacy
solution is needed, then this is probably the best choice.

Once initial consent is veriﬁed, we also need to verify continuing consent, in order to avoid
attacks where two people brieﬂy share an IP (e.g., behind a NAT in an Internet cafe) and the
attacker arranges for a large, unstoppable, traﬃc ﬂow to the network and then leaves. The
appropriate technologies here are fairly similar to those for initial consent, though are perhaps
weaker since the threats are less severe.

4.2.4.  IP Location Privacy

Note that as soon as the callee sends their ICE candidates, the caller learns the callee's IP
addresses. The callee's server-reﬂexive address reveals a lot of information about the callee's
location. In order to avoid tracking, implementations may wish to suppress the start of ICE
negotiation until the callee has answered. In addition, either side may wish to hide their location
from the other side entirely by forcing all traﬃc through a TURN server.

<https://www.torproject.org>

In ordinary operation, the site learns the browser's IP address, though it may be hidden via
mechanisms like Tor
the browser to provide IP addresses, this provides a mechanism for sites to learn about the user's
network environment even if the user is behind a VPN that masks their IP address.
Implementations may wish to provide settings which suppress all non-VPN candidates if the user
is on certain kinds of VPN, especially privacy-oriented systems such as Tor. See
additional information.

 or a VPN. However, because sites can cause

[RFC8828]

 for

4.3.  Communications Security

MUST

 be possible for the communicating parties to establish a channel which

Finally, we consider a problem familiar from the SIP world: communications security. For
obvious reasons, it
is secure against both message recovery and message modiﬁcation. (See
details.) This service must be provided for both data and voice/video. Ideally the same security
mechanisms would be used for both types of content. Technology for providing this service (for
instance, SRTP
However, we must examine this technology in the WebRTC context, where the threat model is
somewhat diﬀerent.

) is well understood.

, and DTLS-SRTP

[RFC6347]

[RFC3711]

[RFC5479]

[RFC5763]

 for more

, DTLS

In general, it is important to understand that unlike a conventional SIP proxy, the calling service
(i.e., the Web server) controls not only the channel between the communicating endpoints but
also the application running on the user's browser. While in principle it is possible for the
browser to cut the calling service out of the loop and directly present trusted information (and
perhaps get consent), practice in modern browsers is to avoid this whenever possible. "In‑ﬂow"
modal dialogs which require the user to consent to speciﬁc actions are particularly disfavored as

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

human factors research indicates that unless they are made extremely invasive, users simply
agree to them without actually consciously giving consent
UI will necessarily be rendered by the browser but under control of the calling service. This
likely includes the peer's identity information, which, after all, is only meaningful in the context
of some calling service.

. Thus, nearly all the

[abarth-rtcweb]

This limitation does not mean that preventing attack by the calling service is completely
hopeless. However, we need to distinguish between two classes of attack:

Retrospective compromise of calling service:

The calling service is non-malicious during a call but subsequently is compromised and
wishes to attack an older call (often called a "passive attack").

During-call attack by calling service:

The calling service is compromised during the call it wishes to attack (often called an "active
attack").

Providing security against the former type of attack is practical using the techniques discussed in
Section 4.3.1. However, it is extremely diﬃcult to prevent a trusted but malicious calling service
from actively attacking a user's calls, either by mounting a Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attack or
by diverting them entirely. (Note that this attack applies equally to a network attacker if
communications to the calling service are not secured.) We discuss some potential approaches in
Section 4.3.2.

4.3.1.  Protecting Against Retrospective Compromise

In a retrospective attack, the calling service was uncompromised during the call, but an attacker
subsequently wants to recover the content of the call. We assume that the attacker has access to
the protected media stream as well as full control of the calling service.

), then retrospective attack is trivial. This form of attack is particularly serious in the

If the calling service has access to the traﬃc keying material (as in Security Descriptions (SDES)
[RFC4568]
Web context because it is standard practice in Web services to run extensive logging and
monitoring. Thus, it is highly likely that if the traﬃc key is part of any HTTP request it will be
logged somewhere and thus subject to subsequent compromise. It is this consideration that
makes an automatic, public key-based key exchange mechanism imperative for WebRTC (this is a
good idea for any communications security system), and this mechanism
Forward Secrecy (FS). The signaling channel/calling service can be used to authenticate this
mechanism.

 provide

SHOULD

In addition, if end-to-end keying is used, the system
long-term keying material or to directly access any stored traﬃc keys. Otherwise, an attacker
who subsequently compromised the calling service might be able to use those APIs to recover the
traﬃc keys and thus compromise the traﬃc.

 provide any APIs to either extract

MUST NOT

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

4.3.2.  Protecting Against During-Call Attack

Protecting against attacks during a call is a more diﬃcult proposition. Even if the calling service
cannot directly access keying material (as recommended in the previous section), it can simply
mount a man-in-the-middle attack on the connection, telling Alice that she is calling Bob and Bob
that he is calling Alice, while in fact the calling service is acting as a calling bridge and capturing
all the traﬃc. Protecting against this form of attack requires positive authentication of the
remote endpoint such as explicit out-of-band key veriﬁcation (e.g., by a ﬁngerprint) or a third-
.
party identity service as described in

[RFC8827]

4.3.2.1.  Key Continuity

One natural approach is to use "key continuity". While a malicious calling service can present
any identity it chooses to the user, it cannot produce a private key that maps to a given public
key. Thus, it is possible for the browser to note a given user's public key and generate an alarm
whenever that user's key changes. The Secure Shell (SSH) protocol
technique. (Note that the need to avoid explicit user consent on every call precludes the browser
requiring an immediate manual check of the peer's key.)

 uses a similar

[RFC4251]

Unfortunately, this sort of key continuity mechanism is far less useful in the WebRTC context.
First, much of the virtue of WebRTC (and any Web application) is that it is not bound to a
particular piece of client software. Thus, it will be not only possible but routine for a user to use
multiple browsers on diﬀerent computers that will of course have diﬀerent keying material
(Securely Available Credentials (SACRED)
[RFC3760]
frequently be alerted to key mismatches which are in fact completely legitimate, with the result
that they are trained to simply click through them. As it is known that users routinely will click
through far more dire warnings
continuity mechanism will be eﬀective rather than simply annoying.

, it seems extremely unlikely that any key

 notwithstanding). Thus, users will

[cranor-wolf]

Moreover, it is trivial to bypass even this kind of mechanism. Recall that unlike the case of SSH,
the browser never directly gets the peer's identity from the user. Rather, it is provided by the
calling service. Even enabling a mechanism of this type would require an API to allow the calling
service to tell the browser "this is a call to user X." All the calling service needs to do to avoid
triggering a key continuity warning is to tell the browser that "this is a call to user Y" where Y is
confusable with X. Even if the user actually checks the other side's name (which all available
evidence indicates is unlikely), this would require (a) the browser to use the trusted UI to provide
the name and (b) the user to not be fooled by similar appearing names.

4.3.2.2.  Short Authentication Strings

[RFC6189]

 uses a "Short Authentication String" (SAS) which is derived from the key

ZRTP
agreement protocol. This SAS is designed to be compared by the users (e.g., read aloud over the
voice channel or transmitted via an out-of-band channel) and if conﬁrmed by both sides
precludes MITM attack. The intention is that the SAS is used once and then key continuity
(though with a diﬀerent mechanism from that discussed above) is used thereafter.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

Unfortunately, the SAS does not oﬀer a practical solution to the problem of a compromised
calling service. "Voice cloning" systems, which mimic the voice of a given speaker are an active
area of research
fraud]
user just wants to get on with the phone call. Thus, even if the SAS is eﬀective today, it is likely
not to be so for much longer.

[deepfakes-
. These attacks are likely to improve in future, especially in an environment where the

 and are already being used in real-world attacks

[deepfakes-ftc]

Additionally, it is unclear that users will actually use an SAS. As discussed above, the browser UI
constraints preclude requiring the SAS exchange prior to completing the call and so it must be
voluntary; at most the browser will provide some UI indicator that the SAS has not yet been
checked. However, it is well known that when faced with optional security mechanisms, many
users simply ignore them

.
[whitten-johnny]

Once users have checked the SAS once, key continuity is required to avoid them needing to check
it on every call. However, this is problematic for reasons indicated in Section 4.3.2.1. In principle
it is of course possible to render a diﬀerent UI element to indicate that calls are using an
unauthenticated set of keying material (recall that the attacker can just present a slightly
diﬀerent name so that the attack shows the same UI as a call to a new device or to someone you
haven't called before), but as a practical matter, users simply ignore such indicators even in the
rather more dire case of mixed content warnings.

4.3.2.3.  Third-Party Identity

The conventional approach to providing communications identity has of course been to have
some third-party identity system (e.g., PKI) to authenticate the endpoints. Such mechanisms have
proven to be too cumbersome for use by typical users (and nearly too cumbersome for
administrators). However, a new generation of Web-based identity providers (BrowserID,
Federated Google Login, Facebook Connect, OAuth
[RFC7033]
perspective) third-party authenticated transactions. It is possible to use systems of this type to
authenticate WebRTC calls, linking them to existing user notions of identity (e.g., Facebook
adjacencies). Speciﬁcally, the third-party identity system is used to bind the user's identity to
cryptographic keying material which is then used to authenticate the calling endpoints. Calls
which are authenticated in this fashion are naturally resistant even to active MITM attack by the
calling site.

) has been developed and use Web technologies to provide lightweight (from the user's

, WebFinger

[RFC6749]

, OpenID

[OpenID]

Note that there is one special case in which PKI-style certiﬁcates do provide a practical solution:
calls from end users to large sites. For instance, if you are making a call to Amazon.com, then
Amazon can easily get a certiﬁcate to authenticate their media traﬃc, just as they get one to
authenticate their Web traﬃc. This does not provide additional security value in cases in which
the calling site and the media peer are one and the same, but might be useful in cases in which
third parties (e.g., ad networks or retailers) arrange for calls but do not participate in them.

4.3.2.4.  Page Access to Media

Identifying the identity of the far media endpoint is a necessary but not suﬃcient condition for
providing media security. In WebRTC, media ﬂows are rendered into HTML5 MediaStreams
which can be manipulated by the calling site. Obviously, if the site can modify or view the media,

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

then the user is not getting the level of assurance they would expect from being able to
authenticate their peer. In many cases, this is acceptable because the user values site-based
special eﬀects over complete security from the site. However, there are also cases where users
wish to know that the site cannot interfere. In order to facilitate that, it will be necessary to
provide features whereby the site can veriﬁably give up access to the media streams. This
veriﬁcation must be possible both from the local side and the remote side. I.e., users must be able
to verify that the person called has engaged a secure media mode (see Section 4.3.3). In order to
achieve this, it will be necessary to cryptographically bind an indication of the local media access
policy into the cryptographic authentication procedures detailed in the previous sections.

It should be noted that the use of this secure media mode is left to the discretion of the site. When
such a mode is engaged, the browser will need to provide indicia to the user that the associated
media has been authenticated as coming from the identiﬁed user. This allows WebRTC services
that wish to claim end-to-end security to do so in a way that can be easily veriﬁed by the user.
This model requires that the remote party's browser be included in the TCB, as described in
Section 3.

4.3.3.  Malicious Peers

One class of attack that we do not generally try to prevent is malicious peers. For instance, no
matter what conﬁdentiality measures you employ the person you are talking to might record the
call and publish it on the Internet. Similarly, we do not attempt to prevent them from using voice
or video processing technology for hiding or changing their appearance. While technologies
(Digital Rights Management (DRM), etc.) do exist to attempt to address these issues, they are
generally not compatible with open systems and WebRTC does not address them.

Similarly, we make no attempt to prevent prank calling or other unwanted calls. In general, this
is in the scope of the calling site, though because WebRTC does oﬀer some forms of strong
authentication, that may be useful as part of a defense against such attacks.

4.4.  Privacy Considerations

4.4.1.  Correlation of Anonymous Calls

While persistent endpoint identiﬁers can be a useful security feature (see Section 4.3.2.1), they
can also represent a privacy threat in settings where the user wishes to be anonymous. WebRTC
provides a number of possible persistent identiﬁers such as DTLS certiﬁcates (if they are reused
between connections) and RTCP CNAMEs (if generated according to
 rather than the
privacy-preserving mode of
). In order to prevent this type of correlation, browsers
[RFC7022]
need to provide mechanisms to reset these identiﬁers (e.g., with the same lifetime as cookies).
Moreover, the API should provide mechanisms to allow sites intended for anonymous calling to
force the minting of fresh identiﬁers. In addition, IP addresses can be a source of call linkage
.
[RFC8828]

[RFC6222]

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

4.4.2.  Browser Fingerprinting

Any new set of API features adds a risk of browser ﬁngerprinting, and WebRTC is no exception.
Speciﬁcally, sites can use the presence or absence of speciﬁc devices as a browser ﬁngerprint. In
general, the API needs to be balanced between functionality and the incremental ﬁngerprint risk.
See

[Fingerprinting]

.

5.  Security Considerations

This entire document is about security.

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

7.2.  Informative References

[abarth-rtcweb]

Barth, A. "Prompting the user is security failure" RTC-Web Workshop

,

,

,

September 2010,
prompt.pdf?attredirects=0>

.

<http://rtc-web.alvestrand.com/home/papers/barth-security-

[cranor-wolf]

Sunshine, J., Egelman, S., Almuhimedi, H., Atri, N., and L. Cranor "Crying Wolf:
An Empirical Study of SSL Warning Eﬀectiveness" Proceedings of the 18th
, August 2009,
USENIX Security Symposium
<https://www.usenix.org/legacy/
.
event/sec09/tech/full_papers/sunshine.pdf>

,

,

[deepfakes-fraud]

Statt, N. "Thieves are now using AI deepfakes to trick companies into

,

sending them money"
www.theverge.com/2019/9/5/20851248/deepfakes-ai-fake-audio-phone-calls-
thieves-trick-companies-stealing-money>

, September 2019,

<https://

.

[deepfakes-ftc]

Lyons, K. "FTC says the tech behind audio deepfakes is getting better"

,

, January

<https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/29/21080553/ftc-deepfakes-audio-

2020,
cloning-joe-rogan-phone-scams>

.

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

[fetch]

[ﬁner-grained]

van Kesteren, A. "Fetch" <https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/>

,

,

.

Jackson, C. and A. Barth "Beware of Finer-Grained Origins" Web 2.0 Security

,

,
and Privacy (W2SP 2008)
, July 2008.

[Fingerprinting]

Doty, N., Ed. "Mitigating Browser Fingerprinting in Web Speciﬁcations"
<https://www.w3.org/TR/ﬁngerprinting-guidance/>

March 2019,

,

.

,

[huang-w2sp]

[OpenID]

[RFC2818]

[RFC3261]

[RFC3552]

[RFC3711]

[RFC3760]

[RFC4251]

[RFC4568]

[RFC5479]

[RFC5763]

Huang, L-S., Chen, E.Y., Barth, A., Rescorla, E., and C. Jackson "Talking to Yourself
for Fun and Proﬁt" Web 2.0 Security and Privacy (W2SP 2011)

, May 2011.

,

,

Sakimura, N., Bradley, J., Jones, M., de Medeiros, B., and C. Mortimore "OpenID
Connect Core 1.0"
core-1_0.html>

<https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-

, November 2014,

.

,

,
Rescorla, E. "HTTP Over TLS" RFC 2818 DOI 10.17487/RFC2818
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2818>

.

,

,

, May 2000,

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R.,
Handley, M., and E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
10.17487/RFC3261

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
, June 2002,

,
.

,

Rescorla, E. and B. Korver "Guidelines for Writing RFC Text on Security
,
Considerations" BCP 72 RFC 3552 DOI 10.17487/RFC3552
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3552>

, July 2003,

,
.

,

,

<https://

Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K. Norrman "The Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, March

,
.

,

,

Gustafson, D., Just, M., and M. Nystrom "Securely Available Credentials
(SACRED) - Credential Server Framework" RFC 3760 DOI 10.17487/RFC3760
April 2004,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3760>

,

,

,

Ylonen, T. and C. Lonvick, Ed. "The Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Architecture"
RFC 4251 DOI 10.17487/RFC4251
rfc4251>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2006,

,
.

,

,

Andreasen, F., Baugher, M., and D. Wing "Session Description Protocol (SDP)
Security Descriptions for Media Streams" RFC 4568 DOI 10.17487/RFC4568
2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4568>

,

,

.

,

, July

Wing, D., Ed., Fries, S., Tschofenig, H., and F. Audet "Requirements and Analysis
of Media Security Management Protocols" RFC 5479 DOI 10.17487/RFC5479
April 2009,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5479>

,

,

,

,
Fischl, J., Tschofenig, H., and E. Rescorla "Framework for Establishing a Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) Security Context Using Datagram Transport
,
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 5763 DOI 10.17487/RFC5763
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5763>

, May 2010,

<https://

,

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

[RFC6189]

[RFC6222]

[RFC6347]

[RFC6454]

[RFC6455]

[RFC6749]

[RFC7022]

[RFC7033]

[RFC7675]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8825]

[RFC8827]

Zimmermann, P., Johnston, A., Ed., and J. Callas "ZRTP: Media Path Key
Agreement for Unicast Secure RTP" RFC 6189 DOI 10.17487/RFC6189
,
2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6189>

,

.

, April

Begen, A., Perkins, C., and D. Wing "Guidelines for Choosing RTP Control
Protocol (RTCP) Canonical Names (CNAMEs)" RFC 6222 DOI 10.17487/RFC6222
April 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6222>

,

,

.

,

,

,
Rescorla, E. and N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
, January 2012,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
rfc6347>

,
.

,

,
Barth, A. "The Web Origin Concept" RFC 6454 DOI 10.17487/RFC6454
December 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6454>

,

.

,

Fette, I. and A. Melnikov "The WebSocket Protocol" RFC 6455 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6455

,
, December 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6455>

,

,

.

Hardt, D., Ed. "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework" RFC 6749 DOI
10.17487/RFC6749

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>

, October 2012,

,

,

,

.

Begen, A., Perkins, C., Wing, D., and E. Rescorla "Guidelines for Choosing RTP
Control Protocol (RTCP) Canonical Names (CNAMEs)" RFC 7022 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7022

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7022>

, September 2013,

,

,

.

,

Jones, P., Salgueiro, G., Jones, M., and J. Smarr "WebFinger" RFC 7033 DOI
10.17487/RFC7033

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7033>

, September 2013,

,

,

,

.

Perumal, M., Wing, D., Ravindranath, R., Reddy, T., and M. Thomson "Session
Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) Usage for Consent Freshness" RFC 7675 DOI
10.17487/RFC7675

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7675>

, October 2015,

,

,

Keranen, A., Holmberg, C., and J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

,

,
Alvestrand, H. "Overview: Real-Time Protocols for Browser-Based Applications"
, January 2021,
RFC 8825 DOI 10.17487/RFC8825
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8825>

,
.

Rescorla, E. "WebRTC Security Architecture" RFC 8827 DOI 10.17487/RFC8827
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8827>

,

,

,

[RFC8828]

,
,
Uberti, J. and G. Shieh "WebRTC IP Address Handling Requirements" RFC 8828
, January 2021,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8828>
DOI 10.17487/RFC8828

,

[SWF]

"SWF File Format Speciﬁcation Version 19"
content/dam/acom/en/devnet/pdf/swf-ﬁle-format-spec.pdf>

, April 2013,

.

<https://www.adobe.com/

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8826

WebRTC Security

January 2021

[whitten-johnny]

Whitten, A. and J.D. Tygar "Why Johnny Can't Encrypt: A Usability

,

Evaluation of PGP 5.0" Proceedings of the 8th USENIX Security Symposium
August 1999,
sec99/whitten.html>

<https://www.usenix.org/legacy/publications/library/proceedings/

.

,

,

Acknowledgements

Bernard Aboba Harald Alvestrand Dan Druta Cullen Jennings Alan Johnston Hadriel Kaplan
,
(Section 4.2.1),

,
Matthew Kaufman Martin Thomson Magnus Westerlund

,

,

,

,

,

.

Author's Address

Eric Rescorla
Mozilla
Email:

 ekr@rtfm.com

Rescorla

Standards Track

Page 21

