Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8914
Standards Track
October 2020
2070-1721
W. Kumari
Google

R. Arends
ICANN

E. Hunt
ISC

W. Hardaker
USC/ISI

D. Lawrence
Salesforce

RFC 8914
Extended DNS Errors

Abstract

This document deﬁnes an extensible method to return additional information about the cause of
DNS errors. Though created primarily to extend SERVFAIL to provide additional information
about the cause of DNS and DNSSEC failures, the Extended DNS Errors option deﬁned in this
document allows all response types to contain extended error information. Extended DNS Error
information does not change the processing of RCODEs.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8914

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8914

Extended DNS Errors

October 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction and Background

1.1.  Requirements Notation

2.  Extended DNS Error EDNS0 Option Format

3.  Extended DNS Error Processing

4.  Deﬁned Extended DNS Errors

4.1.  Extended DNS Error Code 0 - Other

4.2.  Extended DNS Error Code 1 - Unsupported DNSKEY Algorithm

4.3.  Extended DNS Error Code 2 - Unsupported DS Digest Type

4.4.  Extended DNS Error Code 3 - Stale Answer

4.5.  Extended DNS Error Code 4 - Forged Answer

4.6.  Extended DNS Error Code 5 - DNSSEC Indeterminate

4.7.  Extended DNS Error Code 6 - DNSSEC Bogus

4.8.  Extended DNS Error Code 7 - Signature Expired

4.9.  Extended DNS Error Code 8 - Signature Not Yet Valid

4.10. Extended DNS Error Code 9 - DNSKEY Missing

4.11. Extended DNS Error Code 10 - RRSIGs Missing

4.12. Extended DNS Error Code 11 - No Zone Key Bit Set

4.13. Extended DNS Error Code 12 - NSEC Missing

4.14. Extended DNS Error Code 13 - Cached Error

4.15. Extended DNS Error Code 14 - Not Ready

4.16. Extended DNS Error Code 15 - Blocked

4.17. Extended DNS Error Code 16 - Censored

4.18. Extended DNS Error Code 17 - Filtered

4.19. Extended DNS Error Code 18 - Prohibited

4.20. Extended DNS Error Code 19 - Stale NXDOMAIN Answer

4.21. Extended DNS Error Code 20 - Not Authoritative

4.22. Extended DNS Error Code 21 - Not Supported

4.23. Extended DNS Error Code 22 - No Reachable Authority

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8914

Extended DNS Errors

October 2020

4.24. Extended DNS Error Code 23 - Network Error

4.25. Extended DNS Error Code 24 - Invalid Data

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  A New Extended DNS Error Code EDNS Option

5.2.  New Registry for Extended DNS Error Codes

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction and Background

There are many reasons that a DNS query may fail -- some of them transient, some permanent;
some can be resolved by querying another server, some are likely best handled by stopping
resolution. Unfortunately, the error signals that a DNS server can return are very limited and are
not very expressive. This means that applications and resolvers often have to "guess" at what the
issue is, e.g., was the answer marked REFUSED because of a lame delegation or because the
nameserver is still starting up and loading zones? Is a SERVFAIL a DNSSEC validation issue, or is
the nameserver experiencing some other failure? What error messages should be presented to
the user or logged under these conditions?

A good example of issues that would beneﬁt from additional error information are errors caused
by DNSSEC validation issues. When a stub resolver queries a name that is DNSSEC bogus
[RFC8499]
 (using a validating resolver), the stub resolver receives only a SERVFAIL in response.
Unfortunately, the SERVFAIL Response Code (RCODE) is used to signal many sorts of DNS errors,
and so the stub resolver's only option is to ask the next conﬁgured DNS resolver. The result of
trying the next resolver is one of two outcomes: either the next resolver also validates and a
SERVFAIL is returned again or the next resolver is not a validating resolver and the user is
returned a potentially harmful result. With an Extended DNS Error (EDE) option enclosed in the
response message, the resolver is able to return a more descriptive reason as to why any failures
happened or add additional context to a message containing a NOERROR RCODE.

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8914

Extended DNS Errors

October 2020

This document speciﬁes a mechanism to extend DNS errors to provide additional information
about the cause of an error. The Extended DNS Error codes described in this document can be
used by any system that sends DNS queries and receives a response containing an EDE option.
Diﬀerent codes are useful in diﬀerent circumstances, and thus diﬀerent systems (stub resolvers,
recursive resolvers, and authoritative resolvers) might receive and use them.

1.1.  Requirements Notation

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Extended DNS Error EDNS0 Option Format

This document uses an Extended Mechanism for DNS (EDNS0)
Extended DNS Error (EDE) information in DNS messages. The option is structured as follows:

 option to include

[RFC6891]

                                             1   1   1   1   1   1
     0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   0   1   2   3   4   5
   +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
0: |                            OPTION-CODE                        |
   +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
2: |                           OPTION-LENGTH                       |
   +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
4: | INFO-CODE                                                     |
   +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
6: / EXTRA-TEXT ...                                                /
   +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

Field deﬁnition details:

OPTION-CODE:

2 octets / 16 bits (deﬁned in

[RFC6891]

) contains the value 15 for EDE.

OPTION-LENGTH:

2 octets / 16 bits (deﬁned in
) contains the length of the payload (everything after
OPTION-LENGTH) in octets and should be 2 plus the length of the EXTRA-TEXT ﬁeld (which
may be a zero-length string).

[RFC6891]

INFO-CODE:

16 bits, which is the principal contribution of this document. This 16-bit value, encoded in
network most signiﬁcant bit (MSB) byte order, provides the additional context for the
RESPONSE-CODE of the DNS message. The INFO-CODE serves as an index into the "Extended
DNS Errors" registry, deﬁned and created in Section 5.2.

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8914

Extended DNS Errors

October 2020

EXTRA-TEXT:

[RFC5198]

 text ﬁeld that may hold additional textual

a variable-length, UTF-8-encoded
information. This information is intended for human consumption (not automated parsing).
EDE text may be null terminated but
MUST NOT
from the OPTION-LENGTH ﬁeld. The EXTRA-TEXT ﬁeld may be zero octets in length,
indicating that there is no EXTRA-TEXT included. Care should be taken not to include private
information in the EXTRA-TEXT ﬁeld that an observer would not otherwise have access to,
such as account numbers.

 be assumed to be; the length

MUST

 be derived

The Extended DNS Error (EDE) option can be included in any response (SERVFAIL, NXDOMAIN,
REFUSED, even NOERROR, etc.) to a query that includes an OPT pseudo-RR
document includes a set of initial codepoints but is extensible via the IANA registry deﬁned and
created in Section 5.2.

[RFC6891]

. This

3.  Extended DNS Error Processing

When the response grows beyond the requestor's UDP payload size
truncate messages by dropping EDE options before dropping other data from packets.
Implementations
EXTRA-TEXT ﬁelds may trigger truncation (which is undesirable given the supplemental nature
of EDE), implementers and operators creating EDE options
 avoid lengthy EXTRA-TEXT
contents.

 set the truncation bit when dropping EDE options. Because long

[RFC6891]

, servers

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

When a resolver or forwarder receives an EDE option, whether or not (and how) to pass along
EDE information on to their original client is implementation dependent. Implementations
choose to not forward information, or they
MAY
conveys the information encoded in the received EDE. When doing so, the source of the error
 be attributed in the EXTRA-TEXT ﬁeld, since an EDNS0 option received by the original
SHOULD
client will appear to have come from the resolver or forwarder sending it.

 choose to create a new EDE option(s) that

MAY

 assume that a combination will make sense. Receivers

This document does not allow or prohibit any particular extended error codes and information
to be matched with any particular RCODEs. Some combinations of extended error codes and
RCODEs may seem nonsensical (such as resolver-speciﬁc extended error codes received in
responses from authoritative servers), so systems interpreting the extended error codes
NOT
EXTRA-TEXT in all messages, including those with a NOERROR RCODE but need not act on them.
Applications
process RCODEs no matter what EDE values are also received. Senders
one EDE option and receivers
multiple EDE options in a DNS message.

 continue to follow requirements from applicable speciﬁcations on how to

 be able to accept (but not necessarily process or act on)

 include more than

 be able to accept EDE codes and

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

MAY

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8914

Extended DNS Errors

October 2020

4.  Deﬁned Extended DNS Errors

This document deﬁnes some initial EDE codes. The mechanism is intended to be extensible, and
additional codepoints can be registered in the "Extended DNS Errors" registry (Section 5.2). The
INFO-CODE from the EDE EDNS option is used to serve as an index into the "Extended DNS Error"
IANA registry, the initial values for which are deﬁned in the following subsections.

4.1.  Extended DNS Error Code 0 - Other

The error in question falls into a category that does not match known extended error codes.
Implementations
additional information.

 include an EXTRA-TEXT value to augment this error code with

SHOULD

4.2.  Extended DNS Error Code 1 - Unsupported DNSKEY Algorithm

The resolver attempted to perform DNSSEC validation, but a DNSKEY RRset contained only
unsupported DNSSEC algorithms.

4.3.  Extended DNS Error Code 2 - Unsupported DS Digest Type

The resolver attempted to perform DNSSEC validation, but a DS RRset contained only
unsupported Digest Types.

4.4.  Extended DNS Error Code 3 - Stale Answer

The resolver was unable to resolve the answer within its time limits and decided to answer with
previously cached data instead of answering with an error. This is typically caused by problems
communicating with an authoritative server, possibly as result of a denial of service (DoS) attack
against another network. (See also Code 19.)

4.5.  Extended DNS Error Code 4 - Forged Answer

For policy reasons (legal obligation or malware ﬁltering, for instance), an answer was forged.
Note that this should be used when an answer is still provided, not when failure codes are
returned instead. See Blocked (15), Censored (16), and Filtered (17) for use when returning other
response codes.

4.6.  Extended DNS Error Code 5 - DNSSEC Indeterminate

The resolver attempted to perform DNSSEC validation, but validation ended in the Indeterminate
state

[RFC4035]

.

4.7.  Extended DNS Error Code 6 - DNSSEC Bogus

The resolver attempted to perform DNSSEC validation, but validation ended in the Bogus state.

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8914

Extended DNS Errors

October 2020

4.8.  Extended DNS Error Code 7 - Signature Expired

The resolver attempted to perform DNSSEC validation, but no signatures are presently valid and
some (often all) are expired.

4.9.  Extended DNS Error Code 8 - Signature Not Yet Valid

The resolver attempted to perform DNSSEC validation, but no signatures are presently valid and
at least some are not yet valid.

4.10.  Extended DNS Error Code 9 - DNSKEY Missing

A DS record existed at a parent, but no supported matching DNSKEY record could be found for
the child.

4.11.  Extended DNS Error Code 10 - RRSIGs Missing

The resolver attempted to perform DNSSEC validation, but no RRSIGs could be found for at least
one RRset where RRSIGs were expected.

4.12.  Extended DNS Error Code 11 - No Zone Key Bit Set

The resolver attempted to perform DNSSEC validation, but no Zone Key Bit was set in a DNSKEY.

4.13.  Extended DNS Error Code 12 - NSEC Missing

The resolver attempted to perform DNSSEC validation, but the requested data was missing and a
covering NSEC or NSEC3 was not provided.

4.14.  Extended DNS Error Code 13 - Cached Error

The resolver is returning the SERVFAIL RCODE from its cache.

4.15.  Extended DNS Error Code 14 - Not Ready

The server is unable to answer the query, as it was not fully functional when the query was
received.

4.16.  Extended DNS Error Code 15 - Blocked

The server is unable to respond to the request because the domain is on a blocklist due to an
internal security policy imposed by the operator of the server resolving or forwarding the query.

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8914

Extended DNS Errors

October 2020

4.17.  Extended DNS Error Code 16 - Censored

The server is unable to respond to the request because the domain is on a blocklist due to an
external requirement imposed by an entity other than the operator of the server resolving or
forwarding the query. Note that how the imposed policy is applied is irrelevant (in-band DNS
ﬁltering, court order, etc.).

4.18.  Extended DNS Error Code 17 - Filtered

The server is unable to respond to the request because the domain is on a blocklist as requested
by the client. Functionally, this amounts to "you requested that we ﬁlter domains like this one."

4.19.  Extended DNS Error Code 18 - Prohibited

An authoritative server or recursive resolver that receives a query from an "unauthorized" client
can annotate its REFUSED message with this code. Examples of "unauthorized" clients are
recursive queries from IP addresses outside the network, blocklisted IP addresses, local policy,
etc.

4.20.  Extended DNS Error Code 19 - Stale NXDOMAIN Answer

The resolver was unable to resolve an answer within its conﬁgured time limits and decided to
answer with a previously cached NXDOMAIN answer instead of answering with an error. This
may be caused, for example, by problems communicating with an authoritative server, possibly
as result of a denial of service (DoS) attack against another network. (See also Code 3.)

4.21.  Extended DNS Error Code 20 - Not Authoritative

An authoritative server that receives a query with the Recursion Desired (RD) bit clear, or when
it is not conﬁgured for recursion for a domain for which it is not authoritative,
 include
this EDE code in the REFUSED response. A resolver that receives a query with the RD bit clear
SHOULD

 include this EDE code in the REFUSED response.

SHOULD

4.22.  Extended DNS Error Code 21 - Not Supported

The requested operation or query is not supported.

4.23.  Extended DNS Error Code 22 - No Reachable Authority

The resolver could not reach any of the authoritative name servers (or they potentially refused to
reply).

4.24.  Extended DNS Error Code 23 - Network Error

An unrecoverable error occurred while communicating with another server.

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8914

Extended DNS Errors

October 2020

4.25.  Extended DNS Error Code 24 - Invalid Data

The authoritative server cannot answer with data for a zone it is otherwise conﬁgured to
support. Examples of this include its most recent zone being too old or having expired.

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  A New Extended DNS Error Code EDNS Option

This document deﬁnes a new EDNS(0) option, entitled "Extended DNS Error", with the assigned
value of 15 from the "DNS EDNS0 Option Codes (OPT)" registry:

Value Name

Status

Reference

15

Extended DNS Error

Standard

RFC 8914

Table 1

5.2.  New Registry for Extended DNS Error Codes

IANA has created and will maintain a new registry called "Extended DNS Error Codes" on the
"Domain Name System (DNS) Parameters" web page as follows:

Range

Registration Procedures

0 - 49151

First Come First Served

49152 - 65535

Private Use

Table 2

The "Extended DNS Error Codes" registry is a table with three columns: INFO-CODE, Purpose, and
Reference. The initial content is as below.

INFO-CODE

Purpose

Other Error

Reference

Section 4.1

Unsupported DNSKEY Algorithm Section 4.2

Unsupported DS Digest Type

Section 4.3

Stale Answer

Section 4.4 and

[RFC8767]

Forged Answer

Section 4.5

DNSSEC Indeterminate

Section 4.6

0

1

2

3

4

5

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8914

Extended DNS Errors

October 2020

INFO-CODE

Purpose

DNSSEC Bogus

Signature Expired

Reference

Section 4.7

Section 4.8

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

Signature Not Yet Valid

Section 4.9

DNSKEY Missing

RRSIGs Missing

Section 4.10

Section 4.11

No Zone Key Bit Set

Section 4.12

NSEC Missing

Cached Error

Not Ready

Blocked

Censored

Filtered

Prohibited

Section 4.13

Section 4.14

Section 4.15

Section 4.16

Section 4.17

Section 4.18

Section 4.19

Stale NXDomain Answer

Section 4.20

Not Authoritative

Section 4.21

Not Supported

Section 4.22

No Reachable Authority

Section 4.23

Network Error

Invalid Data

Section 4.24

Section 4.25

25-49151

Unassigned

49152-65535

Reserved for Private Use

Section 5.2

Table 3

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8914

Extended DNS Errors

October 2020

6.  Security Considerations

Though DNSSEC continues to be deployed, unfortunately a signiﬁcant number of clients (~11%
according to
) that receive a SERVFAIL from a validating resolver because of a
DNSSEC validation issue will simply ask the next (potentially non-validating) resolver in their list
and thus don't get the protections that DNSSEC should provide.

[GeoﬀValidation]

,

,

, or

[RFC8484]

[RFC2845] [RFC2931] [RFC8094]

EDE information is unauthenticated information, unless secured by a form of secured DNS
transaction, such as
. An attacker (e.g., a man in
the middle (MITM) or malicious recursive server) could insert an extended error response into
untrusted data -- although, ideally, clients and resolvers would not trust any unauthenticated
information. As such, EDE content should be treated only as diagnostic information and
MUST
 alter DNS protocol processing. Until all DNS answers are authenticated via DNSSEC or the
NOT
other mechanisms mentioned above, there are some trade-oﬀs. As an example, an attacker who
is able to insert the DNSSEC Bogus Extended Error into a DNS message could instead simply reply
with a ﬁctitious address (A or AAAA) record. Note that DNS RCODEs also contain no
authentication and can be just as easily manipulated.

By design, EDE potentially exposes additional information via DNS resolution processes that may
leak information. An example of this is the Prohibited EDE code (18), which may leak the fact
that the name is on a blocklist.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4035]

[RFC5198]

[RFC6891]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S. Rose "Protocol
Modiﬁcations for the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4035 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4035

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4035>

, March 2005,

,
,

,

.

,
Klensin, J. and M. Padlipsky "Unicode Format for Network Interchange" RFC
, March 2008,
,
5198 DOI 10.17487/RFC5198
rfc5198>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

.

,

Damas, J., Graﬀ, M., and P. Vixie "Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0))"
STD 75 RFC 6891 DOI 10.17487/RFC6891
editor.org/info/rfc6891>

<https://www.rfc-

, April 2013,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8914

Extended DNS Errors

October 2020

[RFC8499]

[RFC8767]

Hoﬀman, P., Sullivan, A., and K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
8499 DOI 10.17487/RFC8499
,
rfc8499>

, January 2019,

,

,

,

.

Lawrence, D., Kumari, W., and P. Sood "Serving Stale Data to Improve DNS
Resiliency" RFC 8767 DOI 10.17487/RFC8767
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8767>

, March 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[GeoﬀValidation]

Huston, G. "A quick review of DNSSEC Validation in today's Internet"

,

, June

2016,

<http://www.potaroo.net/presentations/2016-06-27-dnssec.pdf>

.

[RFC2845]

[RFC2931]

[RFC8094]

[RFC8484]

Vixie, P., Gudmundsson, O., Eastlake 3rd, D., and B. Wellington "Secret Key
Transaction Authentication for DNS (TSIG)" RFC 2845 DOI 10.17487/RFC2845
May 2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2845>

,

,

,

.

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "DNS Request and Transaction Signatures ( SIG(0)s )" RFC 2931
DOI 10.17487/RFC2931
rfc2931>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2000,

.

,

,

Reddy, T., Wing, D., and P. Patil "DNS over Datagram Transport Layer Security
(DTLS)" RFC 8094 DOI 10.17487/RFC8094
editor.org/info/rfc8094>

<https://www.rfc-

, February 2017,

,

,

.

,

Hoﬀman, P. and P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI
10.17487/RFC8484

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

,

,

,

,
,

Joe Abley Mark Andrews Tim April Vittorio Bertola Stephane
,

The authors wish to thank
Bortzmeyer Vladimir Cunat Ralph Dolmans Peter DeVries Peter van Dijk Mats Dufberg Donald
,
Eastlake Bob Harold Paul Hoﬀman Geoﬀ Huston Shane Kerr Edward Lewis Carlos M.
Martinez George Michelson Eric Orth Michael Sheldon Puneet Sood Petr Spacek Ondrej Sury
John Todd Loganaden Velvindron
. They also vaguely remember discussing this
with a number of people over the years but have forgotten who all of them were. Apologies if we
forgot to acknowledge your contributions.

,
, and

Paul Vixie

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

One author also wants to thank the band Infected Mushroom for providing a good background
soundtrack. Another author would like to thank the band Mushroom Infectors. This was funny at
the time we wrote it, but we cannot remember why...

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8914

Extended DNS Errors

October 2020

Authors' Addresses

Warren Kumari
Google
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

 warren@kumari.net

,

Evan Hunt
ISC
950 Charter St
Redwood City CA 94063
,
United States of America
Email:

 each@isc.org

Roy Arends
ICANN
Email:

 roy.arends@icann.org

Wes Hardaker
USC/ISI
P.O. Box 382
Davis CA 95617
,
United States of America
Email:

 ietf@hardakers.net

David C Lawrence
Salesforce
415 Mission St
San Francisco CA 94105
,
United States of America
 tale@dd.org
Email:

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

