Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8762
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721
G. Mirsky
ZTE Corp.

G. Jun
ZTE Corp.

H. Nydell
Accedian Networks

R. Foote
Nokia

RFC 8762
Simple Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol

Abstract

This document describes the Simple Two-way Active Measurement Protocol (STAMP), which
enables the measurement of both one-way and round-trip performance metrics, like delay, delay
variation, and packet loss.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8762

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identi’¼üed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in e’¼Ćect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpli’¼üed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpli’¼üed BSD License.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Terminology

2.2.  Requirements Language

3.  Operation and Management of Performance Measurement Based on STAMP

4.  Theory of Operation

4.1.  UDP Port Numbers in STAMP Testing

4.2.  Session-Sender Behavior and Packet Format

4.2.1.  Session-Sender Packet Format in Unauthenticated Mode

4.2.2.  Session-Sender Packet Format in Authenticated Mode

4.3.  Session-Re’¼éector Behavior and Packet Format

4.3.1.  Session-Re’¼éector Packet Format in Unauthenticated Mode

4.3.2.  Session-Re’¼éector Packet Format in Authenticated Mode

4.4.  Integrity Protection in STAMP

4.5.  Con’¼üdentiality Protection in STAMP

4.6.  Interoperability with TWAMP Light

5.  Operational Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

1.  Introduction

Development and deployment of the Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)
and its extensions (e.g.,
invaluable experience. Several independent implementations of both TWAMP and TWAMP Light
exist, have been deployed, and provide important operational performance measurements.

, which de’¼ünes Symmetrical Size for TWAMP) provided

[RFC6038]

[RFC5357]

At the same time, there has been noticeable interest in using a more straightforward mechanism
for active performance monitoring that can provide deterministic behavior and inherent
separation of control (vendor-speci’¼üc con’¼üguration or orchestration) and test functions. Recent
work on "Performance Measurement from IP Edge to Customer Equipment using TWAMP Light"
[BBF.TR-390]
implementations of TWAMP Light is di’¼ācult because the composition and operation of TWAMP
Light were not su’¼āciently speci’¼üed in
a subset of TWAMP-Test functions. Thus, to have a comprehensive tool to measure packet loss
and delay requires support by other applications that provide, for example, control and security.

 by the Broadband Forum demonstrates that interoperability among

, TWAMP Light includes

. According to

[RFC5357]

[RFC8545]

This document de’¼ünes an active performance measurement test protocol, Simple Two-way
Active Measurement Protocol (STAMP), that enables measurement of both one-way and round-
trip performance metrics, like delay, delay variation, and packet loss. Support of some optional
TWAMP extensions, e.g.,

.
[STAMP-OPTION]

, is discussed in

[RFC7750]

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Terminology

STAMP:

Simple Two-way Active Measurement Protocol

NTP:

PTP:

Network Time Protocol

Precision Time Protocol

HMAC:

Hashed Message Authentication Code

OWAMP:

One-Way Active Measurement Protocol

TWAMP:

Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol

MBZ:

PDU:

Must be Zero

Protocol Data Unit

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

2.2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Operation and Management of Performance Measurement
Based on STAMP

Figure 1 presents the Simple Two-way Active Measurement Protocol (STAMP) Session-Sender and
Session-Re’¼éector with a measurement session. In this document, a measurement session, also
referred to as a "STAMP session", is the bidirectional packet ’¼éow between one speci’¼üc Session-
Sender and one particular Session-Re’¼éector for a time duration. The con’¼üguration and
management of the STAMP Session-Sender, Session-Re’¼éector, and sessions are outside the scope
of this document and can be achieved through various means. A few examples are Command
Line Interface, telecommunication services' Operational Support System (OSS) / Business Support
System (BSS), SNMP, and NETCONF/YANG-based Software-De’¼üned Networking (SDN) controllers.

      o----------------------------------------------------------o
      |                      Configuration and                   |
      |                         Management                       |
      o----------------------------------------------------------o
             ||                                          ||
             ||                                          ||
             ||                                          ||
  +----------------------+                +-------------------------+
  | STAMP Session-Sender | <--- STAMP---> | STAMP Session-Reflector |
  +----------------------+                +-------------------------+

Figure 1: STAMP Reference Model

4.  Theory of Operation

The STAMP Session-Sender transmits test packets over UDP transport toward the STAMP Session-
Re’¼éector. The STAMP Session-Re’¼éector receives the Session-Sender's packet and acts according to
the con’¼üguration. Two modes of the STAMP Session-Re’¼éector characterize the expected behavior
and, consequently, performance metrics that can be measured:

Stateless:

The STAMP Session-Re’¼éector does not maintain test state and will use the value in the
Sequence Number ’¼üeld in the received packet as the value for the Sequence Number ’¼üeld
in the re’¼éected packet. As a result, values in the Sequence Number and Session-Sender
Sequence Number ’¼üelds are the same, and only round-trip packet loss can be calculated
while the re’¼éector is operating in stateless mode.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8762

Stateful:

STAMP

March 2020

STAMP Session-Re’¼éector maintains the test state, thus allowing the Session-Sender to
determine directionality of loss using the combination of gaps recognized in the Session
Sender Sequence Number and Sequence Number ’¼üelds, respectively. As a result, both
near-end (forward) and far-end (backward) packet loss can be computed. That implies that
the STAMP Session-Re’¼éector
session, thereby uniquely associating STAMP-Test packets with one such session instance
and, thus, enabling the addition of a sequence number in the test reply that is individually
incremented by one on a per-session basis.

 maintain a state for each con’¼ügured STAMP-Test

MUST

STAMP supports two authentication modes: unauthenticated and authenticated. Unauthenticated
STAMP-Test packets, de’¼üned in Sections 4.2.1 and 4.3.1, ensure interworking between STAMP and
TWAMP Light, as described in Section 4.6 regarding packet formats.

By default, STAMP uses symmetrical packets, i.e., the size of the packet transmitted by the
Session-Re’¼éector equals the size of the packet received by the Session-Re’¼éector.

4.1.  UDP Port Numbers in STAMP Testing

MUST

 use UDP port 862 (TWAMP-Test Receiver Port) as the default

A STAMP Session-Sender
destination UDP port number. A STAMP implementation of the Session-Sender
be used as the destination UDP port numbers from the User Ports (aka Registered Ports) and
Dynamic Ports (aka Private or Ephemeral Ports) ranges de’¼üned in
numbers from the User Ports range, the possible impact on the network
studied and agreed on by all users of the network domain where the test has been planned.

. Before using
 be carefully

[RFC6335]

MUST

MUST

 be able to

By default, an implementation of the STAMP Session-Re’¼éector
on UDP port 862. An implementation of the Session-Re’¼éector that supports this speci’¼ücation
MUST
Dynamic Ports ranges, which are de’¼üned in
formats: one for packets transmitted by the STAMP Session-Sender and one for packets
transmitted by the STAMP Session-Re’¼éector.

 be able to de’¼üne the port number to receive STAMP-Test packets from User Ports and
[RFC6335]

. STAMP de’¼ünes two di’¼Ćerent test packet

 receive STAMP-Test packets

MUST

4.2.  Session-Sender Behavior and Packet Format

Section 3
, as the default behavior. A re’¼éected base test packet includes information from the

A STAMP Session-Re’¼éector supports the symmetrical size of test packets, as de’¼üned in
of [RFC6038]
Session-Re’¼éector and, thus, is larger. To maintain the symmetry between base STAMP packets,
the base STAMP Session-Sender packet includes the Must-Be-Zero (MBZ) ’¼üeld to match to the size
of a base re’¼éected STAMP test packet. Hence, the base STAMP Session-Sender packet has a
minimum size of 44 octets in unauthenticated mode (see Figure 2) and 112 octets in the
authenticated mode (see Figure 4). Generating variable length of a test packet in STAMP is
de’¼üned in

[STAMP-OPTION]

.

4.2.1.  Session-Sender Packet Format in Unauthenticated Mode

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                        Sequence Number                        |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                          Timestamp                            |
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |         Error Estimate        |                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               +
   |                                                               |
   |                                                               |
   |                        MBZ  (30 octets)                       |
   |                                                               |
   |                                                               |
   |                                                               |
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: STAMP Session-Sender Test Packet Format in Unauthenticated Mode

The ’¼üelds are de’¼üned as following:

ŌĆó

The Sequence Number ’¼üeld is four octets long. For each new session, its value starts at zero
and is incremented by one with each transmitted packet.

ŌĆó

The Timestamp ’¼üeld is eight octets long. The STAMP node
Protocol (NTP) version 4 64-bit timestamp format
The STAMP node
MAY
bit timestamp format
format, NTP or PTP, is part of con’¼üguration of the Session-Sender or the particular test
session.

 support the Network Time
.
[RFC5357]
 support the IEEE 1588v2 Precision Time Protocol (PTP) truncated 64-
[IEEE.1588.2008]

, the format used in

, the format used in

. The use of the speci’¼üc

[RFC8186]

[RFC5905]

MUST

ŌĆó

The Error Estimate ’¼üeld is two octets long with the format displayed in Figure 3:

         0                   1
         0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
        +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
        |S|Z|   Scale   |   Multiplier  |
        +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Error Estimate Format

The S, Scale, and Multiplier ’¼üelds are interpreted as they are de’¼üned in
[RFC4656]

. The Z ’¼üeld is interpreted as it is de’¼üned in

Section 2.3 of [RFC8186]

Section 4.1.2 of
:

0:

1:

NTP 64-bit format of a timestamp

PTPv2 truncated format of a timestamp

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

The default behavior of the STAMP Session-Sender and Session-Re’¼éector is to use the NTP 64-
bit timestamp format (Z ’¼üeld value of 0). An operator using con’¼üguration/management
function
truncated format of a timestamp (Z ’¼üeld value of 1). Note that an implementation of a
Session-Sender that supports this speci’¼ücation
a timestamp even though the Session-Re’¼éector is con’¼ügured to use NTP format.

 con’¼ügure the STAMP Session-Sender and Session-Re’¼éector to use the PTPv2

 be con’¼ügured to use the PTPv2 format of

MAY

MAY

ŌĆó

The MBZ ’¼üeld in the Session-Sender unauthenticated packet is 30 octets long. It
zeroed on the transmission and

 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

MUST

 be all

4.2.2.  Session-Sender Packet Format in Authenticated Mode

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                      Sequence Number                          |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               |
 |                      MBZ (12 octets)                          |
 |                                                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                        Timestamp                              |
 |                                                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |        Error Estimate         |                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               +
 ~                                                               ~
 |                         MBZ (70 octets)                       |
 ~                                                               ~
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               |
 |                       HMAC (16 octets)                        |
 |                                                               |
 |                                                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: STAMP Session-Sender Test Packet Format in Authenticated Mode

The ’¼üeld de’¼ünitions are the same as the unauthenticated mode, listed in Section 4.2.1. Also, MBZ
’¼üelds are used to make the packet length a multiple of 16 octets. The value of the ’¼üeld
zeroed on transmission and
MUST
calculate a key hashed message authentication code (HMAC)
includes an HMAC hash at the end of the PDU. The detailed use of the HMAC ’¼üeld is described in
Section 4.4.

 be
 be ignored on receipt. Note, that both MBZ ’¼üelds are used to

 hash. Also, the packet

[RFC2104]

MUST

4.3.  Session-Re’¼éector Behavior and Packet Format

The Session-Re’¼éector receives the STAMP-Test packet and veri’¼ües it. If the base STAMP-Test
packet is validated, the Session-Re’¼éector that supports this speci’¼ücation prepares and transmits
the re’¼éected test packet symmetric to the packet received from the Session-Sender copying the
content beyond the size of the base STAMP packet (see Section 4.2).

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

4.3.1.  Session-Re’¼éector Packet Format in Unauthenticated Mode

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                        Sequence Number                        |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                          Timestamp                            |
 |                                                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |         Error Estimate        |            MBZ                |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                          Receive Timestamp                    |
 |                                                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                 Session-Sender Sequence Number                |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                  Session-Sender Timestamp                     |
 |                                                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Session-Sender Error Estimate |            MBZ                |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |Ses-Sender TTL |                      MBZ                      |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: STAMP Session-Re’¼éector Test Packet Format in Unauthenticated Mode

Fields are de’¼üned as the following:

ŌĆó

The Sequence Number ’¼üeld is four octets long. The value of the Sequence Number ’¼üeld is set
according to the mode of the STAMP Session-Re’¼éector:

ŌŚ”

ŌŚ”

In the stateless mode, the Session-Re’¼éector copies the value from the received STAMP-Test
packet's Sequence Number ’¼üeld.

In the stateful mode, the Session-Re’¼éector counts the transmitted STAMP-Test packets. It
starts with zero and is incremented by one for each subsequent packet for each test
session. The Session-Re’¼éector uses that counter to set the value of the Sequence Number
’¼üeld.

ŌĆó

The Timestamp and Receive Timestamp ’¼üelds are each eight octets long. The format of these
’¼üelds, NTP or PTPv2, is indicated by the Z ’¼üeld of the Error Estimate ’¼üeld, as described in
Section 4.2.1. Receive Timestamp is the time the test packet was received by the Session-
Re’¼éector. Timestamp is the time taken by the Session-Re’¼éector at the start of transmitting
the test packet.

ŌĆó

The Error Estimate ’¼üeld has the same size and interpretation as described in Section 4.2.1. It
is applicable to both Timestamp and Receive Timestamp.

ŌĆó

The Session-Sender Sequence Number, Session-Sender Timestamp, and Session-Sender Error
Estimate ’¼üelds are copies of the corresponding ’¼üelds in the STAMP-Test packet sent by the
Session-Sender.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

ŌĆó

The Session-Sender TTL ’¼üeld is one octet long, and its value is the copy of the TTL ’¼üeld in
IPv4 (or Hop Limit in IPv6) from the received STAMP-Test packet.

ŌĆó

The MBZ ’¼üelds are used to achieve alignment of ’¼üelds within the packet on a four-octet
boundary. The value of each MBZ ’¼üeld
on receipt.

 be zeroed on transmission and

MUST

MUST

 be ignored

4.3.2.  Session-Re’¼éector Packet Format in Authenticated Mode

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                        Sequence Number                        |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                        MBZ (12 octets)                        |
   |                                                               |
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                          Timestamp                            |
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |         Error Estimate        |                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               +
   |                        MBZ (6 octets)                         |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                        Receive Timestamp                      |
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                        MBZ (8 octets)                         |
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                 Session-Sender Sequence Number                |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                        MBZ (12 octets)                        |
   |                                                               |
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                 Session-Sender Timestamp                      |
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | Session-Sender Error Estimate |                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               +
   |                        MBZ (6 octets)                         |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |Ses-Sender TTL |                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                                               +
   |                                                               |
   |                        MBZ (15 octets)                        |
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                        HMAC (16 octets)                       |
   |                                                               |
   |                                                               |
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: STAMP Session-Re’¼éector Test Packet Format in Authenticated Mode

The ’¼üeld de’¼ünitions are the same as the unauthenticated mode, listed in Section 4.3.1.
Additionally, the MBZ ’¼üeld is used to make the packet length a multiple of 16 octets. The value of
the ’¼üeld
 be ignored on receipt. Note that the MBZ
MUST
’¼üeld is used to calculate the HMAC hash value. Also, the STAMP Session-Re’¼éector test packet
format in authenticated mode includes the HMAC
 hash at the end of the PDU. The
detailed use of the HMAC ’¼üeld is in Section 4.4.

 be zeroed on transmission and

[RFC2104]

MUST

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

4.4.  Integrity Protection in STAMP

Authenticated mode provides integrity protection to each STAMP message by adding Hashed
Message Authentication Code (HMAC). STAMP uses HMAC-SHA-256 truncated to 128 bits
(similarly to the use of it in IPsec de’¼üned in
[RFC4868]
octets. In the authenticated mode, HMAC covers the ’¼ürst six blocks (96 octets). HMAC uses its own
key, which may be unique for each STAMP-Test session; key management and the mechanisms to
distribute the HMAC key are outside the scope of this speci’¼ücation. One example is to use an
orchestrator to con’¼ügure the HMAC key based on the STAMP YANG data model
HMAC

 be veri’¼üed as early as possible to avoid using or propagating corrupted data.

); hence, the length of the HMAC ’¼üeld is 16

.
[STAMP-YANG]

MUST

Future speci’¼ücations may de’¼üne the use of other, more advanced cryptographic algorithms,
possibly providing an update to the STAMP YANG data model

.
[STAMP-YANG]

4.5.  Con’¼üdentiality Protection in STAMP

If con’¼üdentiality protection for STAMP is required, a STAMP-Test session
 use a secured
transport. For example, STAMP packets could be transmitted in the dedicated IPsec tunnel or
share the IPsec tunnel with the monitored ’¼éow. Also, the Datagram Transport Layer Security
protocol would provide the desired con’¼üdentiality protection.

MUST

4.6.  Interoperability with TWAMP Light

One of the essential requirements to STAMP is the ability to interwork with a TWAMP Light
device. Because STAMP and TWAMP use di’¼Ćerent algorithms in authenticated mode (HMAC-
SHA-256 versus HMAC-SHA-1), interoperability is only considered for unauthenticated mode.
There are two possible combinations for such a use case:

ŌĆó

STAMP Session-Sender with TWAMP Light Session-Re’¼éector

ŌĆó

TWAMP Light Session-Sender with STAMP Session-Re’¼éector

In the former case, the Session-Sender might not be aware that its Session-Re’¼éector does not
support STAMP. For example, a TWAMP Light Session-Re’¼éector may not support the use of UDP
port 862, as speci’¼üed in
alternative ports. If any of STAMP extensions are used, the TWAMP Light Session-Re’¼éector will
view them as the Packet Padding ’¼üeld.

. Thus, Section 4 permits a STAMP Session-Sender to use

[RFC8545]

In the latter scenario, if a TWAMP Light Session-Sender does not support the use of UDP port 862,
the test management system
permitted by Section 4. The Session-Re’¼éector
timestamps, NTP.

 set the STAMP Session-Re’¼éector to use UDP port number, as

 be set to use the default format for its

MUST

MUST

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

A STAMP Session-Re’¼éector that supports this speci’¼ücation will transmit the base packet (Figure
5) if it receives a packet smaller than the STAMP base packet. If the packet received from the
TWAMP Session-Sender is larger than the STAMP base packet, the STAMP Session-Re’¼éector that
supports this speci’¼ücation will copy the content of the remainder of the received packet to
transmit a re’¼éected packet of symmetrical size.

5.  Operational Considerations

STAMP is intended to be used on production networks to enable the operator to assess service
level agreements based on packet delay, delay variation, and loss. When using STAMP over the
Internet, especially when STAMP-Test packets are transmitted with the destination UDP port
number from the User Ports range, the possible impact of the STAMP-Test packets
thoroughly analyzed. The use of STAMP for each case
the Session-Sender and Session-Re’¼éector before starting the STAMP-Test session.

 be agreed by users of nodes hosting

MUST

MUST

 be

Also, the use of the well-known port number as the destination UDP port number in STAMP-Test
packets transmitted by a Session-Sender would not impede the ability to measure performance
in an Equal-Cost Multipath environment, and analysis in
STAMP.

Section 5.3 of [RFC8545]

 fully applies to

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

7.  Security Considerations

 does not identify security considerations speci’¼üc to TWAMP-Test but refers to security

[RFC5357]
considerations identi’¼üed for OWAMP in
control-plane and data-plane components, only security considerations related to OWAMP-Test
discussed in Sections 6.2 and 6.3 of

. Since both OWAMP and TWAMP include

 apply to STAMP.

[RFC4656]

[RFC4656]

STAMP uses the well-known UDP port number allocated for the OWAMP-Test/TWAMP-Test
Receiver Port. Thus, the security considerations and measures to mitigate the risk of the attack
using the registered port number documented in
Because of the control and management of a STAMP-Test being outside the scope of this
speci’¼ücation, only the more general requirement is set:

Section 6 of [RFC8545]

 equally apply to STAMP.

To mitigate the possible attack vector, the control and management of a STAMP-Test session
MUST

 use the secured transport.

The load of the STAMP-Test packets o’¼Ćered to a network
the possible impact on the existing services
the test session.
UDP-based protocol. While the characteristic of test tra’¼āc depends on the test objective, it is
highly recommended to stay in the limits, as provided in

 be thoroughly analyzed before launching
 provides guidance on handling network load for

 be carefully estimated, and

Section 3.1.5 of [RFC8085]

[RFC8085]

MUST

MUST

.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

Use of HMAC-SHA-256 in the authenticated mode protects the data integrity of the STAMP-Test
packets.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[IEEE.1588.2008]

IEEE "IEEE Standard for a Precision Clock Synchronization Protocol for

,

Networked Measurement and Control Systems" IEEE Standard 1588

,

, July 2008.

[RFC2104]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4656]

[RFC5357]

[RFC5905]

[RFC6038]

[RFC6335]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8186]

Krawczyk, H., Bellare, M., and R. Canetti "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message
Authentication" RFC 2104 DOI 10.17487/RFC2104
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2104>

, February 1997,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Shalunov, S., Teitelbaum, B., Karp, A., Boote, J., and M. Zekauskas "A One-way
Active Measurement Protocol (OWAMP)" RFC 4656 DOI 10.17487/RFC4656
September 2006,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4656>

.

,

,

,

,

Hedayat, K., Krzanowski, R., Morton, A., Yum, K., and J. Babiarz "A Two-Way
,
Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)" RFC 5357 DOI 10.17487/RFC5357
October 2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5357>

,

,

.

,

Mills, D., Martin, J., Ed., Burbank, J., and W. Kasch "Network Time Protocol
Version 4: Protocol and Algorithms Speci’¼ücation" RFC 5905 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5905

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5905>

, June 2010,

,
,

,

.

Morton, A. and L. Ciavattone "Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)
,
Re’¼éect Octets and Symmetrical Size Features" RFC 6038 DOI 10.17487/RFC6038
October 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6038>

,
.

,

,

Cotton, M., Eggert, L., Touch, J., Westerlund, M., and S. Cheshire "Internet
Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Procedures for the Management of the
Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry" BCP 165 RFC 6335
DOI 10.17487/RFC6335

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6335>

, August 2011,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Mirsky, G. and I. Meilik "Support of the IEEE 1588 Timestamp Format in a Two-
,
Way Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)" RFC 8186 DOI 10.17487/RFC8186
June 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8186>

,

,

.

,

[RFC8545]

,
Morton, A., Ed. and G. Mirsky, Ed. "Well-Known Port Assignments for the One-
Way Active Measurement Protocol (OWAMP) and the Two-Way Active

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)" RFC 8545 DOI 10.17487/RFC8545
,
2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8545>

.

,

, March

8.2.  Informative References

[BBF.TR-390]

[RFC4868]

[RFC7750]

[RFC8085]

Broadband Forum "Performance Measurement from IP Edge to Customer
Equipment using TWAMP Light" TR-390 Issue 1

, May 2017.

,

,

Kelly, S. and S. Frankel "Using HMAC-SHA-256, HMAC-SHA-384, and HMAC-
SHA-512 with IPsec" RFC 4868 DOI 10.17487/RFC4868
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4868>

, May 2007,

<https://

,

,

.

,

,
Hedin, J., Mirsky, G., and S. Baillargeon "Di’¼Ćerentiated Service Code Point and
Explicit Congestion Noti’¼ücation Monitoring in the Two-Way Active
Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)" RFC 7750 DOI 10.17487/RFC7750
,
2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7750>

, February

.

,

Eggert, L., Fairhurst, G., and G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
,
8085 DOI 10.17487/RFC8085
rfc8085>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, March 2017,

,

.

[STAMP-OPTION]

Mirsky, G., Xiao, M., Nydell, H., Foote, R., Masputra, A., and E. Ru’¼āni "Simple
,

Two-way Active Measurement Protocol Optional Extensions" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ippm-stamp-option-tlv-03
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-ippm-stamp-option-tlv-03>

, 21 February 2020,

<https://

,

.

,

[STAMP-YANG]

Mirsky, G., Xiao, M., and W. Luo "Simple Two-way Active Measurement

,

Protocol (STAMP) Data Model" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ippm-
stamp-yang-05
stamp-yang-05>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-ippm-

, 25 October 2019,

.

,

,

Acknowledgments

The authors express their appreciation to
great insights into the security and identity protection as well as the most helpful and practical
suggestions. Also, our sincere thanks to
thorough reviews and helpful comments.

Jose Ignacio Alvarez-Hamelin

David Ball Rakesh Gandhi

Brian Weis

Xiao Min

 for their

, and

 and

,

 for their

Authors' Addresses

Greg Mirsky
ZTE Corp.
Email:

 gregimirsky@gmail.com

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8762

STAMP

March 2020

Guo Jun
ZTE Corp.
68# Zijinghua Road
Nanjing
Jiangsu 210012
,
China
Phone:
Email:

 +86 18105183663
 guo.jun2@zte.com.cn

Henrik Nydell
Accedian Networks
Email:

 hnydell@accedian.com

Richard Foote
Nokia
Email:

 footer.foote@nokia.com

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

