Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8899
4821, 4960, 6951, 8085, 8261
Standards Track
September 2020
2070-1721

G. Fairhurst
University of Aberdeen

T. Jones
University of Aberdeen

M. Tüxen
Münster University of Applied Sciences

I. Rüngeler
Münster University of Applied Sciences

T. Völker
Münster University of Applied Sciences

RFC 8899
Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery for
Datagram Transports

Abstract

This document speciﬁes Datagram Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery (DPLPMTUD). This is
a robust method for Path MTU Discovery (PMTUD) for datagram Packetization Layers (PLs). It
allows a PL, or a datagram application that uses a PL, to discover whether a network path can
support the current size of datagram. This can be used to detect and reduce the message size
when a sender encounters a packet black hole. It can also probe a network path to discover
whether the maximum packet size can be increased. This provides functionality for datagram
transports that is equivalent to the PLPMTUD speciﬁcation for TCP, speciﬁed in RFC 4821, which
it updates. It also updates the UDP Usage Guidelines to refer to this method for use with UDP
datagrams and updates SCTP.

The document provides implementation notes for incorporating Datagram PMTUD into IETF
datagram transports or applications that use datagram transports.

This speciﬁcation updates RFC 4960, RFC 4821, RFC 6951, RFC 8085, and RFC 8261.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8899

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Classical Path MTU Discovery

1.2.  Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery

1.3.  Path MTU Discovery for Datagram Services

2.  Terminology

3.  Features Required to Provide Datagram PLPMTUD

4.  DPLPMTUD Mechanisms

4.1.  PLPMTU Probe Packets

4.2.  Conﬁrmation of Probed Packet Size

4.3.  Black Hole Detection and Reducing the PLPMTU

4.4.  The Maximum Packet Size (MPS)

4.5.  Disabling the Eﬀect of PMTUD

4.6.  Response to PTB Messages

4.6.1.  Validation of PTB Messages

4.6.2.  Use of PTB Messages

5.  Datagram Packetization Layer PMTUD

5.1.  DPLPMTUD Components

5.1.1.  Timers

5.1.2.  Constants

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

5.1.3.  Variables

5.1.4.  Overview of DPLPMTUD Phases

5.2.  State Machine

5.3.  Search to Increase the PLPMTU

5.3.1.  Probing for a Larger PLPMTU

5.3.2.  Selection of Probe Sizes

5.3.3.  Resilience to Inconsistent Path Information

5.4.  Robustness to Inconsistent Paths

6.  Speciﬁcation of Protocol-Speciﬁc Methods

6.1.  Application Support for DPLPMTUD with UDP or UDP-Lite

6.1.1.  Application Request

6.1.2.  Application Response

6.1.3.  Sending Application Probe Packets

6.1.4.  Initial Connectivity

6.1.5.  Validating the Path

6.1.6.  Handling of PTB Messages

6.2.  DPLPMTUD for SCTP

6.2.1.  SCTP/IPv4 and SCTP/IPv6

6.2.1.1.  Initial Connectivity

6.2.1.2.  Sending SCTP Probe Packets

6.2.1.3.  Validating the Path with SCTP

6.2.1.4.  PTB Message Handling by SCTP

6.2.2.  DPLPMTUD for SCTP/UDP

6.2.2.1.  Initial Connectivity

6.2.2.2.  Sending SCTP/UDP Probe Packets

6.2.2.3.  Validating the Path with SCTP/UDP

6.2.2.4.  Handling of PTB Messages by SCTP/UDP

6.2.3.  DPLPMTUD for SCTP/DTLS

6.2.3.1.  Initial Connectivity

6.2.3.2.  Sending SCTP/DTLS Probe Packets

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

6.2.3.3.  Validating the Path with SCTP/DTLS

6.2.3.4.  Handling of PTB Messages by SCTP/DTLS

6.3.  DPLPMTUD for QUIC

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The IETF has speciﬁed datagram transport using UDP, Stream Control Transmission Protocol
(SCTP), and Datagram Congestion Control Protocol (DCCP), as well as protocols layered on top of
these transports (e.g., SCTP/UDP, DCCP/UDP, QUIC/UDP) and direct datagram transport over the IP
network layer. This document describes a robust method for Path MTU Discovery (PMTUD) that
can be used with these transport protocols (or the applications that use their transport service) to
discover an appropriate size of packet to use across an Internet path.

1.1.  Classical Path MTU Discovery

Classical Path Maximum Transmission Unit Discovery (PMTUD) can be used with any transport
that is able to process ICMP Packet Too Big (PTB) messages (e.g.,
document, the term PTB message is applied to both IPv4 ICMP Unreachable messages (Type 3)
that carry the error Fragmentation Needed (Type 3, Code 4)
 and ICMPv6 Packet Too
Big messages (Type 2)
MTU to the value reported as the link MTU in the PTB message. Classical PMTUD speciﬁes a
method of periodically increasing the packet size in an attempt to discover an increase in the
supported PMTU. The packets sent with a size larger than the current eﬀective PMTU are known
as probe packets.

[RFC0792]
. When a sender receives a PTB message, it reduces the eﬀective

[RFC8201]

[RFC1191]

[RFC4443]

 and

). In this

Packets not intended as probe packets are either fragmented to the current eﬀective PMTU, or
the attempt to send fails with an error code. Applications can be provided with a primitive to let
them read the Maximum Packet Size (MPS), which is derived from the current eﬀective PMTU.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Classical PMTUD is subject to protocol failures. One failure arises when traﬃc using a packet size
larger than the actual PMTU is black-holed (all datagrams larger than the actual PMTU are
discarded). This could arise when the PTB messages are not sent back to the sender for some
reason (for example, see

[RFC2923]

).

Examples of where PTB messages are not delivered include the following:

•

The generation of ICMP messages is usually rate limited. This could result in no PTB
messages being generated to the sender (see

Section 2.4 of [RFC4443]

).

•

ICMP messages can be ﬁltered by middleboxes, including ﬁrewalls
could be conﬁgured with a policy to block incoming ICMP messages, which would prevent
reception of PTB messages by a sending endpoint behind this ﬁrewall.

. A ﬁrewall

[RFC4890]

•

When the router issuing the ICMP message drops a tunneled packet, the resulting ICMP
message is directed to the tunnel ingress. This tunnel endpoint is responsible for forwarding
the ICMP message, processing the quoted packet within the payload ﬁeld to remove the eﬀect
of the tunnel and returning a correctly formatted ICMP message to the sender
Failure to do this prevents the PTB message from reaching the original sender.

.
[TUNNELS]

•

Asymmetry in forwarding can result in there being no return route to the original sender,
which would prevent an ICMP message from being delivered to the sender. This issue can
also arise when either policy-based or Equal-Cost Multipath (ECMP) routing is used or when
a middlebox acts as an application load balancer. An example of which is an ECMP router
choosing a path toward the server based on the bytes in the IP payload. In this case, if a
packet sent by the server encounters a problem after the ECMP router, then the ECMP router
needs to direct any resulting ICMP message toward the original sender.

•

There are additional cases where the next-hop destination fails to receive a packet because
of its size. This could be due to misconﬁguration of the layer 2 path between nodes, for
instance the MTU conﬁgured in a layer 2 switch, or misconﬁguration of the Maximum
Receive Unit (MRU). If a packet is dropped by the link, this will not cause a PTB message to be
sent to the original sender.

Another failure could result if a node that is not on the network path sends a PTB message that
attempts to force a sender to change the eﬀective PMTU
from reacting to such messages by utilizing the quoted packet within a PTB message payload to
validate that the received PTB message was generated in response to a packet that had actually
originated from the sender. However, there are situations where a sender would be unable to
provide this validation. Examples where the validation of the PTB message is not possible
include the following:

. A sender can protect itself

[RFC8201]

•

When a router issuing the ICMP message implements RFC 792
to include the ﬁrst 64 bits of the IP payload of the packet within the quoted payload. There
could be insuﬃcient bytes remaining for the sender to interpret the quoted transport
information.

, it is only required

[RFC0792]

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Note: The recommendation in RFC 1812
packet with as much of the original datagram as possible without the length of the ICMP
datagram exceeding 576 bytes. IPv6 routers include as much of the invoking packet as
possible without the ICMPv6 packet exceeding 1280 bytes

 is that IPv4 routers return a quoted

[RFC1812]

[RFC4443]

.

•

The use of tunnels and/or encryption can reduce the size of the quoted packet returned to
the original source address, increasing the risk that there could be insuﬃcient bytes
remaining for the sender to interpret the quoted transport information.

•

Even when the PTB message includes suﬃcient bytes of the quoted packet, the network layer
could lack suﬃcient context to validate the message because validation depends on
information about the active transport ﬂows at an endpoint node (e.g., the socket/address
pairs being used and other protocol header information).

•

When a packet is encapsulated/tunneled over an encrypted transport, the tunnel/
encapsulation ingress might have insuﬃcient context, or computational power, to
reconstruct the transport header that would be needed to perform validation.

•

When an ICMP message is generated by a router in a network segment that has inserted a
header into a packet, the quoted packet could contain additional protocol header
information that was not included in the original sent packet and that the PL sender does not
process or may not know how to process. This could disrupt the ability of the sender to
validate this PTB message.

•

A Network Address Translation (NAT) device that translates a packet header ought to also
translate ICMP messages and update the ICMP-quoted packet
 in that message. If
this is not correctly translated, then the sender would not be able to associate the message
with the PL that originated the packet, and hence this ICMP message cannot be validated.

[RFC5508]

1.2.  Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery

The term Packetization Layer (PL) has been introduced to describe the layer that is responsible
for placing data blocks into the payload of IP packets and selecting an appropriate MPS. This
function is often performed by a transport protocol (e.g., DCCP, RTP, SCTP, QUIC) but can also be
performed by other encapsulation methods working above the transport layer.

In contrast to PMTUD, Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery (PLPMTUD)
a method that does not rely upon reception and validation of PTB messages. It is therefore more
robust than Classical PMTUD. This has become the recommended approach for implementing
discovery of the PMTU

[RFC4821]

[BCP145]

 introduces

.

This document updates
updates
[BCP145]
instead of the method in

[RFC4821]

.

[RFC4821]

 to specify the PLPMTUD method for datagram PLs and also

 to refer to the method speciﬁed in this document for use with UDP datagrams

It uses a general strategy in which the PL sends probe packets to search for the largest size of
unfragmented datagram that can be sent over a network path. Probe packets are sent to explore
using a larger packet size. If a probe packet is successfully delivered (as determined by the PL),
then the PLPMTU is raised to the size of the successful probe. If a black hole is detected (e.g.,
where packets of size PLPMTU are consistently not received), the method reduces the PLPMTU.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Datagram PLPMTUD introduces ﬂexibility in implementation. At one extreme, it can be
conﬁgured to only perform black hole detection and recovery with increased robustness
compared to Classical PMTUD. At the other extreme, all PTB processing can be disabled, and
PLPMTUD replaces Classical PMTUD.

PLPMTUD can also include additional consistency checks without increasing the risk that data is
lost when probing to discover the Path MTU. For example, information available at the PL, or
higher layers, enables received PTB messages to be validated before being utilized.

1.3.  Path MTU Discovery for Datagram Services

Section 5 of this document presents a set of algorithms for datagram protocols to discover the
largest size of unfragmented datagram that can be sent over a network path. The method relies
upon features of the PL described in Section 3 and applies to transport protocols operating over
IPv4 and IPv6. It does not require cooperation from the lower layers, although it can utilize PTB
messages when these received messages are made available to the PL.

SHOULD

 either use the Path MTU information provided by the IP layer or implement

The message size guidelines in Section 3.2 of the UDP Usage Guidelines
application
Path MTU Discovery (PMTUD)" but do not provide a mechanism for discovering the largest size
of unfragmented datagram that can be used on a network path. The present document updates
RFC 8085 to specify this method in place of PLPMTUD
 and provides a mechanism for
sharing the discovered largest size as the MPS (see Section 4.4).

 state that "an

[RFC4821]

[BCP145]

 recommended a PLPMTUD probing method for the Stream Control

Section 10.2 of [RFC4821]
Transport Protocol (SCTP). SCTP utilizes probe packets consisting of a minimal-sized HEARTBEAT
chunk bundled with a PAD chunk as deﬁned in
. However, RFC 4821 did not provide a
complete speciﬁcation. The present document replaces that description by providing a complete
speciﬁcation.

[RFC4820]

The Datagram Congestion Control Protocol (DCCP)
support Classical PMTUD and states that a DCCP sender "
each active DCCP session". It also deﬁnes the current congestion control MPS (CCMPS) supported
by a network path. This recommends use of PMTUD and suggests use of control packets (DCCP-
Sync) as path probe packets because they do not risk application data loss. The method deﬁned in
this speciﬁcation can be used with DCCP.

 maintain the MPS allowed for

 requires implementations to

[RFC4340]

MUST

Section 4 and Section 5 deﬁne the protocol mechanisms and speciﬁcation for Datagram
Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery (DPLPMTUD).

Section 6 speciﬁes the method for datagram transports and provides information to enable the
implementation of PLPMTUD with other datagram transports and applications that use datagram
transports.

Section 6 also provides recommendations for SCTP endpoints, updating
and

 to use the method speciﬁed in this document instead of the method in

[RFC8261]

[RFC4960] [RFC6951]
,

,

[RFC4821]
.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The following terminology is deﬁned. Relevant terms are directly copied from
deﬁnitions in

[RFC1122]

 apply.

[RFC4821]

, and the

Acknowledged PL:

A PL that includes a mechanism that can conﬁrm successful delivery of

datagrams to the remote PL endpoint (e.g., SCTP). Typically, the PL receiver returns
acknowledgments corresponding to the received datagrams, which can be utilized to detect
black-holing of packets (c.f., Unacknowledged PL).

Actual PMTU:

The actual PMTU is the PMTU of a network path between a sender PL and a

destination PL, which the DPLPMTUD algorithm seeks to determine.

Black Hole:

A black hole is encountered when a sender is unaware that packets are not being

delivered to the destination endpoint. Two types of black hole are relevant to DPLPMTUD:

•

Packets encounter a packet black hole when packets are not delivered to the destination
endpoint (e.g., when the sender transmits packets of a particular size with a previously
known eﬀective PMTU, and they are discarded by the network).

•

An ICMP black hole is encountered when the sender is unaware that packets are not
delivered to the destination endpoint because PTB messages are not received by the
originating PL sender.

Classical Path MTU Discovery:

Classical PMTUD is a process described in
 in which nodes rely on PTB messages to learn the largest size of unfragmented

[RFC1191]

 and

[RFC8201]
packet that can be used across a network path.

Datagram:

A datagram is a transport-layer protocol data unit, transmitted in the payload of an

IP packet.

DPLPMTUD:

Datagram Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery (DPLPMTUD), PLPMTUD

performed using a datagram transport protocol.

Eﬀective PMTU:

The eﬀective PMTU is the current estimated value for PMTU that is used by a
PMTUD. This is equivalent to the PLPMTU derived by PLPMTUD plus the size of any headers
added below the PL, including the IP layer headers.

EMTU_S:

The eﬀective MTU for sending (EMTU_S) is deﬁned in

[RFC1122]

 as "the maximum IP

datagram size that may be sent, for a particular combination of IP source and destination
addresses...".

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

EMTU_R:

The eﬀective MTU for receiving (EMTU_R) is designated in

[RFC1122]

 as "the largest

datagram size that can be reassembled".

Link:

A link is a communication facility or medium over which nodes can communicate at the

link layer, i.e., a layer below the IP layer. Examples are Ethernet LANs and Internet (or higher)
layer tunnels.

Link MTU:

The link Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) is the size in bytes of the largest IP

packet, including the IP header and payload, that can be transmitted over a link. Note that this
could more properly be called the IP MTU, to be consistent with how other standards
organizations use the acronym. This includes the IP header but excludes link layer headers
and other framing that is not part of IP or the IP payload. Other standards organizations
generally deﬁne the link MTU to include the link layer headers. This speciﬁcation continues
 enforce their MTU: links that might
the requirement in
non-deterministically deliver packets that are larger than their rated MTU
 consistently
discard such packets."

 that states, "All links

[RFC4821]

MUST

MUST

MAX_PLPMTU:

The MAX_PLPMTU is the largest size of PLPMTU that DPLPMTUD will attempt to

use (see the constants deﬁned in Section 5.1.2).

MIN_PLPMTU:

The MIN_PLPMTU is the smallest size of PLPMTU that DPLPMTUD will attempt

to use (see the constants deﬁned in Section 5.1.2).

MPS:

The Maximum Packet Size (MPS) is the largest size of application data block that can be

sent across a network path by a PL using a single datagram (see Section 4.4).

MSL:

The Maximum Segment Lifetime (MSL) is the maximum delay a packet is expected to

experience across a path, taken as 2 minutes

[BCP145]

.

Packet:

A packet is the IP header(s) and any extension headers/options plus the IP payload.

Packetization Layer (PL):

The PL is a layer of the network stack that places data into packets
and performs transport protocol functions. Examples of a PL include TCP, SCTP, SCTP over
UDP, SCTP over DTLS, or QUIC.

Path:

The path is the set of links and routers traversed by a packet between a source node and a

destination node by a particular ﬂow.

Path MTU (PMTU):

The Path MTU (PMTU) is the minimum of the link MTU of all the links

forming a network path between a source node and a destination node, as used by PMTUD.

PTB:

In this document, the term PTB message is applied to both IPv4 ICMP Unreachable

messages (Type 3) that carry the error Fragmentation Needed (Type 3, Code 4)
ICMPv6 Packet Too Big messages (Type 2)

[RFC4443]

.

[RFC0792]

 and

PTB_SIZE:

The PTB_SIZE is a value reported in a validated PTB message that indicates next-hop

link MTU of a router along the path.

PL_PTB_SIZE:

The size reported in a validated PTB message, reduced by the size of all headers

added by layers below the PL.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

PLPMTU:

The Packetization Layer PMTU is an estimate of the largest size of PL datagram that

can be sent by a path, controlled by PLPMTUD.

PLPMTUD:

Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery (PLPMTUD), the method described in this

document for datagram PLs, which is an extension to Classical PMTU Discovery.

Probe packet:

A probe packet is a datagram sent with a purposely chosen size (typically the

current PLPMTU or larger) to detect if packets of this size can be successfully sent end-to-end
across the network path.

Unacknowledged PL:

A PL that does not itself provide a mechanism to conﬁrm delivery of

datagrams to the remote PL endpoint (e.g., UDP), and therefore requires DPLPMTUD to
provide a mechanism to detect black-holing of packets (c.f., Acknowledged PL).

3.  Features Required to Provide Datagram PLPMTUD

The principles expressed in
PLPMTUD has been deﬁned using standard TCP protocol mechanisms. Unlike TCP, a datagram PL
requires additional mechanisms and considerations to implement PLPMTUD.

 apply to the use of the technique with any PL. TCP

[RFC4821]

The requirements for datagram PLPMTUD are:

1.

Managing the PLPMTU: For datagram PLs, the PLPMTU is managed by DPLPMTUD. A PL
 send a datagram (other than a probe packet) with a size at the PL that is larger
MUST NOT
than the current PLPMTU.

2.

3.

4.

5.

Probe packets: The network interface below the PL is
a probe packet that is larger than the PLPMTU. In IPv4, a probe packet
Don't Fragment (DF) bit set in the IP header and without network layer endpoint
fragmentation. In IPv6, a probe packet is always sent without source fragmentation (as
speciﬁed in

 to provide a way to transmit
 be sent with the

Section 5.4 of [RFC8201]

REQUIRED

MUST

).

Reception feedback: The destination PL endpoint is
that indicates to the DPLPMTUD sender when a probe packet has been received by the
destination PL endpoint. Section 6 provides examples of how a PL can provide this
acknowledgment of received probe packets.

REQUIRED

 to provide a feedback method

RECOMMENDED

 to use probe packets that do not carry any user
Probe loss recovery: It is
data that would require retransmission if lost. Most datagram transports permit this. If a
probe packet contains user data requiring retransmission in case of loss, the PL (or layers
above) is
is
(including link transmission error, congestion).

 to be robust in the case where probe packets are lost due to other reasons

 to arrange any retransmission and/or repair of any resulting loss. The PL

REQUIRED

REQUIRED

PMTU parameters: A DPLPMTUD sender is
maximum size of packet that can be transmitted by the sender on the local link (e.g., the local
link MTU). A PL sender
 utilize similar information about the maximum size of network-
layer packet that a receiver can accept when this is supplied (note this could be less than
EMTU_R). This avoids implementations trying to send probe packets that cannot be
transferred by the local link. Too high of a value could reduce the eﬃciency of the search

 to utilize information about the

RECOMMENDED

MAY

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

algorithm. Some applications also have a maximum transport protocol data unit (PDU) size,
in which case there is no beneﬁt from probing for a size larger than this (unless a transport
allows multiplexing multiple applications' PDUs into the same datagram).

6.

7.

8.

9.

MAY

 optionally utilize PTB messages

Processing PTB messages: A DPLPMTUD sender
received from the network layer to help identify when a network path does not support the
current size of probe packet. Any received PTB message
 be validated before it is used
to update the PLPMTU discovery information
[RFC8201]
PTB message was sent in response to a packet originated by the sender and needs to be
performed before the PLPMTU discovery method reacts to the PTB message. A PTB message
MUST NOT
larger PLPMTU. A valid PTB_SIZE is converted to a PL_PTB_SIZE before it is to be used in the
DPLPMTUD state machine. A PL_PTB_SIZE that is greater than that currently probed
SHOULD
be ignored. (This PTB message ought to be discarded without further processing but could be
utilized as an input that enables a resilience mode).

MUST
. This validation conﬁrms that the

 but could trigger a probe to test for a

 be used to increase the PLPMTU

[RFC8201]

MAY

MUST

 use a congestion controller to decide when to send

 be at least one RTT. Loss of a probe packet

 be treated as an indication of congestion and

Probing and congestion control: A PL
a probe packet. If transmission of probe packets is limited by the congestion controller, this
could result in transmission of probe packets being delayed or suspended during congestion.
When the transmission of probe packets is not controlled by the congestion controller, the
interval between probe packets
NOT
reaction
An update to the PLPMTU (or MPS)
 increase the congestion window measured in
. Therefore, an increase in the packet size does not cause an increase in the
bytes
data rate in bytes per second. A PL that maintains the congestion window in terms of a limit
to the number of outstanding ﬁxed-size packets
the size of the actual packets. The transmission of probe packets can interact with the
operation of a PL that performs burst mitigation or pacing, and the PL could need
transmission of probe packets to be regulated by these methods.

 because this could result in unnecessary reduction of the sending rate.

 adapt this limit to compensate for

 trigger a congestion control

SHOULD NOT

[RFC4821]

[RFC4821]

MUST NOT

SHOULD

SHOULD

Probing and ﬂow control: Flow control at the PL concerns the end-to-end ﬂow of data using
the PL service. Flow control
design that does not carry user data to the remote application.

 apply to DPLPMTU when probe packets use a

SHOULD NOT

Shared PLPMTU state: The PMTU value calculated from the PLPMTU
the corresponding entry associated with the destination in the IP layer cache and used by
other PL instances. The speciﬁcation of PLPMTUD
 states, "If PLPMTUD updates the
MTU for a particular path, all Packetization Layer sessions that share the path representation
(as described in Section 5.2)
 be notiﬁed to make use of the new MTU". Such methods
Section 5.2
MUST
 provides guidance on the caching of PMTU information and also the relation to
of [RFC8201]
IPv6 ﬂow labels.

 be robust to the wide variety of underlying network forwarding behaviors.

 also be stored with

[RFC4821]

SHOULD

MAY

In addition, the following principles are stated for design of a DPLPMTUD method:

•

MAY

 be designed to segment data blocks larger than the MPS into multiple datagrams.

A PL
However, not all datagram PLs support segmentation of data blocks. It is
RECOMMENDED
that methods avoid forcing an application to use an arbitrary small MPS for transmission

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

while the method is searching for the currently supported PLPMTU. A reduced MPS can
adversely impact the performance of an application.

•

To assist applications in choosing a suitable data block size, the PL is
provide a primitive that returns the MPS derived from the PLPMTU to the higher layer using
the PL. The value of the MPS can change following a change in the path or loss of probe
packets.

RECOMMENDED

 to

•

Path validation: It is
 that methods are robust to path changes that could
have occurred since the path characteristics were last conﬁrmed and to the possibility of
inconsistent path information being received.

RECOMMENDED

•

Datagram reordering: A method is
encounters reordering or that the traﬃc (including probe packets) is divided over more than
one network path.

 to be robust to the possibility that a ﬂow

REQUIRED

•

Datagram delay and duplication: The feedback mechanism is
 to be robust to the
possibility that packets could be signiﬁcantly delayed or duplicated along a network path.

REQUIRED

•

When to probe: It is
since it last measured the path. This can help determine when to probe the path again.

 that methods determine whether the path has changed

RECOMMENDED

4.  DPLPMTUD Mechanisms

This section lists the protocol mechanisms used in this speciﬁcation.

4.1.  PLPMTU Probe Packets

[RFC4821]

. In contrast, a datagram PL that constructs a probe packet has to either

The DPLPMTUD method relies upon the PL sender being able to generate probe packets with a
speciﬁc size. TCP is able to generate these probe packets by choosing to appropriately segment
data being sent
request an application to send a data block that is larger than that generated by an application,
or to utilize padding functions to extend a datagram beyond the size of the application data
block. Protocols that permit exchange of control messages (without an application data block)
can generate a probe packet by extending a control message with padding data. The total size of
a probe packet includes all headers and padding added to the payload data being sent (e.g.,
including protocol option ﬁelds, security-related ﬁelds such as an Authenticated Encryption with
Associated Data (AEAD) tag, and TLS record layer padding).

REQUIRED

A receiver is
This is needed to ensure that any added padding is not passed on to an application at the
receiver.

 to be able to distinguish an in-band data block from any added padding.

This results in three possible ways that a sender can create a probe packet:

Probing using padding data:

A probe packet that contains only control information together

with any padding, which is needed to inﬂate to the size of the probe packet. Since these probe
packets do not carry an application-supplied data block, they do not typically require
retransmission, although they do still consume network capacity and incur endpoint
processing.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Probing using application data and padding data:

A probe packet that contains a data block

supplied by an application that is combined with padding to inﬂate the length of the datagram
to the size of the probe packet.

Probing using application data:

A probe packet that contains a data block supplied by an

application that matches the size of the probe packet. This method requests the application to
issue a data block of the desired probe size.

A PL that uses a probe packet carrying application data and that needs protection from the loss
of this probe packet could perform transport-layer retransmission/repair of the data block (e.g.,
by retransmitting after loss is detected or by duplicating the data block in a datagram without the
padding data). This retransmitted data block might possibly need to be sent using a smaller
PLPMTU, which could force the PL to use a smaller packet size to traverse the end-to-end path.
(This could utilize endpoint network-layer fragmentation or a PL that can resegment the data
block into multiple datagrams).

DPLPMTUD

MAY

 choose to use only one of these methods to simplify the implementation.

Probe messages sent by a PL
within the Maximum Segment Lifetime (e.g., including a unique identiﬁer from the PL or the
DPLPMTUD implementation), while being robust to reordering and replay of probe response and
PTB messages.

 contain enough information to uniquely identify the probe

MUST

4.2.  Conﬁrmation of Probed Packet Size

The PL needs a method to determine (conﬁrm) when probe packets have been successfully
received end-to-end across a network path.

Transport protocols can include end-to-end methods that detect and report reception of speciﬁc
datagrams that they send (e.g., DCCP, SCTP, and QUIC provide keep-alive/heartbeat features).
When supported, this mechanism
probe packet.

 also be used by DPLPMTUD to acknowledge reception of a

MAY

A PL that does not acknowledge data reception (e.g., UDP and UDP-Lite) is unable itself to detect
when the packets that it sends are discarded because their size is greater than the actual PMTU.
These PLs need to rely on an application protocol to detect this loss.

Section 6 speciﬁes this function for a set of IETF-speciﬁed protocols.

4.3.  Black Hole Detection and Reducing the PLPMTU

The description that follows uses the set of constants deﬁned in Section 5.1.2 and variables
deﬁned in Section 5.1.3.

Black hole detection is triggered by an indication that the network path could be unable to
support the current PLPMTU size.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

There are three indicators that can be used to detect black holes:

•

A validated PTB message can be received that indicates a PL_PTB_SIZE less than the current
PLPMTU. A DPLPMTUD method

 rely solely on this method.

MUST NOT

•

A PL can use the DPLPMTUD probing mechanism to periodically generate probe packets of
the size of the current PLPMTU (e.g., using the CONFIRMATION_TIMER, Section 5.1.1). A
timer tracks whether acknowledgments are received. Successive loss of probes is an
indication that the current path no longer supports the PLPMTU (e.g., when the number of
probe packets sent without receiving an acknowledgment, PROBE_COUNT, becomes greater
than MAX_PROBES).

•

A PL can utilize an event that indicates the network path no longer sustains the sender's
PLPMTU size. This could use a mechanism implemented within the PL to detect excessive
loss of data sent with a speciﬁc packet size and then conclude that this excessive loss could
be a result of an invalid PLPMTU (as in PLPMTUD for TCP

[RFC4821]

).

The three methods can result in diﬀerent transmission patterns for packet probes and are
expected to result in diﬀerent responsiveness following a change in the actual PMTU.

MAY

 inhibit sending probe packets when no application data has been sent since the

A PL
previous probe packet. A PL that resumes sending user data
each path. This allows it to use an up-to-date PLPMTU. However, this could result in additional
packets being sent.

 continue PLPMTU discovery for

MAY

When the method detects that the current PLPMTU is not supported, DPLPMTUD sets a lower
PLPMTU and a lower MPS. The PL then conﬁrms that the new PLPMTU can be successfully used
across the path. A probe packet could need to be smaller than the size of the data block generated
by the application.

4.4.  The Maximum Packet Size (MPS)

The result of probing determines a usable PLPMTU, which is used to set the MPS used by the
application. The MPS is smaller than the PLPMTU because it is reduced by the size of PL headers
(including the overhead of security-related ﬁelds such as an AEAD tag and TLS record layer
padding). The relationship between the MPS and the PLPMTUD is illustrated in Figure 1.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Figure 1: Relationship between MPS and PLPMTU

A PL is unable to send a packet (other than a probe packet) with a size larger than the current
PLPMTU at the network layer. To avoid this, a PL
than the MPS into multiple datagrams.

 be designed to segment data blocks larger

MAY

DPLPMTUD seeks to avoid IP fragmentation. An attempt to send a data block larger than the MPS
will therefore fail if a PL is unable to segment data. To determine the largest data block that can
 provide applications with a primitive that returns the MPS, derived from
be sent, a PL
SHOULD
the current PLPMTU.

If DPLPMTUD results in a change to the MPS, the application needs to adapt to the new MPS. A
particular case can arise when packets have been sent with a size less than the MPS and the
PLPMTU was subsequently reduced. If these packets are lost, the PL
the new MPS. If a PL is unable to resegment a previously sent datagram (e.g.,
sender either discards the datagram or could perform retransmission using network-layer
fragmentation to form multiple IP packets not larger than the PLPMTU. For IPv4, the use of
endpoint fragmentation by the sender is preferred over clearing the DF bit in the IPv4 header.
Operational experience reveals that IP fragmentation can reduce the reliability of Internet
, which may reduce the probability of successful retransmission.
communication

[RFC4960]

[RFC8900]

MAY

 segment the data using

), then the

4.5.  Disabling the Eﬀect of PMTUD

A PL implementing this speciﬁcation
packets that enforces a PMTU
use DPLPMTUD to control the size of packets that are sent by a ﬂow. This removes the need for
the network layer to drop or to fragment sent packets that have a size greater than the PMTU.

 suspend network layer processing of outgoing

MUST
[RFC1191][RFC8201]

 for each ﬂow utilizing DPLPMTUD and instead

4.6.  Response to PTB Messages

This method requires the DPLPMTUD sender to validate any received PTB message before using
the PTB information. The response to a PTB message depends on the PL_PTB_SIZE calculated
from the PTB_SIZE in the PTB message, the state of the PLPMTUD state machine, and the IP
protocol being used.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

UPTMrcTLyadPaPoepooUiaeP|PMdnrsldatI|tLondaPS|tMAilhRFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Section 4.6.1 describes validation for both IPv4 ICMP Unreachable messages (Type 3) and ICMPv6
Packet Too Big messages, both of which are referred to as PTB messages in this document.

4.6.1.  Validation of PTB Messages

This section speciﬁes utilization and validation of PTB messages.

•

A simple implementation
not updated when a PTB message is received.

MAY

 ignore received PTB messages, and in this case, the PLPMTU is

•

A PL that supports PTB messages
processed.

MUST

 validate these messages before they are further

A PL that receives a PTB message from a router or middlebox performs ICMP validation (see
Section 4 of [RFC8201]
PL needs to check that each received PTB message is received in response to a packet transmitted
by the endpoint PL performing DPLPMTUD.

). Because DPLPMTUD operates at the PL, the

Section 5.2 of [BCP145]

 and

MUST

 check the protocol information in the quoted packet carried in an ICMP PTB

The PL
message payload to validate the message originated from the sending node. This validation
includes determining that the combination of the IP addresses, the protocol, the source port, and
destination port match those returned in the quoted packet -- this is also necessary for the PTB
message to be passed to the corresponding PL.

SHOULD

 utilize information that is not simple for an oﬀ-path attacker to

The validation
determine
to the two PL endpoints. A datagram application that uses well-known source and destination
ports ought to also rely on other information to complete this validation.

. For example, it could check the value of a protocol header ﬁeld known only

[BCP145]

These checks are intended to provide protection from packets that originate from a node that is
not on the network path. A PTB message that does not complete the validation
further utilized by the DPLPMTUD method, as discussed in the Security Considerations section
(Section 8).

MUST NOT

 be

Section 4.6.2 describes this processing of PTB messages.

4.6.2.  Use of PTB Messages

PTB messages that have been validated
 be used directly to set the PLPMTU.
NOT

MAY

 be utilized by the DPLPMTUD algorithm but

MUST

Before using the size reported in the PTB message, it must ﬁrst be converted to a PL_PTB_SIZE.
The PL_PTB_SIZE is smaller than the PTB_SIZE because it is reduced by headers below the PL,
including any IP options or extensions added to the PL packet.

A method that utilizes these PTB messages can improve the speed at which the algorithm detects
an appropriate PLPMTU by triggering an immediate probe for the PL_PTB_SIZE (resulting in a
network-layer packet of size PTB_SIZE), compared to one that relies solely on probing using a
timer-based search algorithm.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

A set of checks are intended to provide protection from a router that reports an unexpected
PTB_SIZE. The PL also needs to check that the indicated PL_PTB_SIZE is less than the size used by
probe packets and at least the minimum size accepted.

This section provides a summary of how PTB messages can be utilized, using the set of constants
deﬁned in Section 5.1.2. This processing depends on the PL_PTB_SIZE and the current value of a
set of variables:

PL_PTB_SIZE < MIN_PLPMTU

•

Invalid PL_PTB_SIZE, see Section 4.6.1.

•

PTB message ought to be discarded without further processing (i.e., PLPMTU is not
modiﬁed).

•

The information could be utilized as an input that triggers the enabling of a resilience
mode (see Section 5.3.3).

MIN_PLPMTU < PL_PTB_SIZE < BASE_PLPMTU

•

MAY

 enter an error state (see Section 5.2) for an IPv4 path when the

A robust PL
PL_PTB_SIZE reported in the PTB message is larger than or equal to 68 bytes
and when this is less than the BASE_PLPMTU.

[RFC0791]

•

MAY

 enter an error state (see Section 5.2) for an IPv6 path when the
A robust PL
PL_PTB_SIZE reported in the PTB message is larger than or equal to 1280 bytes
and when this is less than the BASE_PLPMTU.

[RFC8200]

BASE_PLPMTU <= PL_PTB_SIZE < PLPMTU

•

This could be an indication of a black hole. The PLPMTU
(the PLPMTU is reduced to the BASE_PLPMTU to avoid unnecessary packet loss when a
black hole is encountered).

 be set to BASE_PLPMTU

SHOULD

•

The PL ought to start a search to quickly discover the new PLPMTU. The PL_PTB_SIZE
reported in the PTB message can be used to initialize a search algorithm.

PLPMTU < PL_PTB_SIZE < PROBED_SIZE

•

The PLPMTU continues to be valid, but the size of a packet used to search (PROBED_SIZE)
was larger than the actual PMTU.

•

The PLPMTU is not updated.

•

The PL can use the reported PL_PTB_SIZE from the PTB message as the next search point
when it resumes the search algorithm.

PL_PTB_SIZE >= PROBED_SIZE

•

Inconsistent network signal.

•

PTB message ought to be discarded without further processing (i.e., PLPMTU is not
modiﬁed).

•

The information could be utilized as an input to trigger the enabling of a resilience mode.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

5.  Datagram Packetization Layer PMTUD

This section speciﬁes Datagram PLPMTUD (DPLPMTUD). The method can be introduced at
various points (as indicated with * in Figure 2) in the IP protocol stack to discover the PLPMTU so
that an application can utilize an appropriate MPS for the current network path.

SHOULD

 only be performed at one layer between a pair of endpoints. Therefore, an
DPLPMTUD
upper PL or application should avoid using DPLPMTUD when this is already enabled in a lower
layer. A PL
introduced by the PL.

 adjust the MPS indicated by DPLPMTUD to account for any additional overhead

MUST

Figure 2: Examples Where DPLPMTUD Can Be Implemented

The central idea of DPLPMTUD is probing by a sender. Probe packets are sent to ﬁnd the
maximum size of user message that can be completely transferred across the network path from
the sender to the destination.

The following sections identify the components needed for implementation, provide an overview
of the phases of operation, and specify the state machine and search algorithm.

5.1.  DPLPMTUD Components

This section describes the timers, constants, and variables of DPLPMTUD.

5.1.1.  Timers

The method utilizes up to three timers:

PROBE_TIMER:

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

Dan*UrIecpoPeI*tQ*eolatAwnPtpcUTkiCCrfiSNRFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

The PROBE_TIMER is conﬁgured to expire after a period longer than the maximum time to
receive an acknowledgment to a probe packet. This value
and
provided in Section 3.1.1 of the UDP Usage Guidelines

 be larger than 15 seconds. Guidance on the selection of the timer value is

 be smaller than 1 second

[BCP145]
.

MUST NOT

SHOULD

PMTU_RAISE_TIMER:

The PMTU_RAISE_TIMER is conﬁgured to the period a sender will

continue to use the current PLPMTU, after which it reenters the Search Phase. This timer has
a period of 600 seconds, as recommended by PLPMTUD

.
[RFC4821]

MAY

 inhibit sending probe packets when no application data has been sent since

DPLPMTUD
the previous probe packet. A PL preferring to use an up-to-date PMTU once user data is sent
again can choose to continue PMTU discovery for each path. However, this will result in
sending additional packets.

CONFIRMATION_TIMER:

When an acknowledged PL is used, this timer

MUST NOT

 be used. For

other PLs, the CONFIRMATION_TIMER is conﬁgured to the period a PL sender waits before
conﬁrming the current PLPMTU is still supported. This is less than the PMTU_RAISE_TIMER
and used to decrease the PLPMTU (e.g., when a black hole is encountered). Conﬁrmation
needs to be frequent enough when data is ﬂowing that the sending PL does not black hole
extensive amounts of traﬃc. Guidance on selection of the timer value are provided in Section
3.1.1 of the UDP Usage Guidelines

[BCP145]
.

MAY

 inhibit sending probe packets when no application data has been sent since

DPLPMTUD
the previous probe packet. A PL preferring to use an up-to-date PMTU once user data is sent
again, can choose to continue PMTU discovery for each path. However, this could result in
sending additional packets.

DPLPMTUD speciﬁes various timers; however, an implementation could choose to realize these
timer functions using a single timer.

5.1.2.  Constants

The following constants are deﬁned:

MAX_PROBES:

The MAX_PROBES is the maximum value of the PROBE_COUNT counter (see

Section 5.1.3). MAX_PROBES represents the limit for the number of consecutive probe
attempts of any size. Search algorithms beneﬁt from a MAX_PROBES value greater than 1
because this can provide robustness to isolated packet loss. The default value of MAX_PROBES
is 3.

MIN_PLPMTU:

The MIN_PLPMTU is the smallest size of PLPMTU that DPLPMTUD will attempt
to use. An endpoint could need to conﬁgure the MIN_PLPMTU to provide space for extension
headers and other encapsulations at layers below the PL. This value can be interface and path
dependent. For IPv6, this size is greater than or equal to the size at the PL that results in an
1280-byte IPv6 packet, as speciﬁed in
. For IPv4, this size is greater than or equal to
the size at the PL that results in an 68-byte IPv4 packet. Note: An IPv4 router is required to be
able to forward a datagram of 68 bytes without further fragmentation. This is the combined

[RFC8200]

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

size of an IPv4 header and the minimum fragment size of 8 bytes. In addition, receivers are
required to be able to reassemble fragmented datagrams at least up to 576 bytes, as stated in
Section 3.3.3 of [RFC1122]

.

MAX_PLPMTU:

The MAX_PLPMTU is the largest size of PLPMTU. This has to be less than or

equal to the maximum size of the PL packet that can be sent on the outgoing interface
(constrained by the local interface MTU). When known, this also ought to be less than the
maximum size of PL packet that can be received by the remote endpoint (constrained by
EMTU_R). It can be limited by the design or conﬁguration of the PL being used. An application,
or PL,
 choose a smaller MAX_PLPMTU when there is no need to send packets larger than
a speciﬁc size.

MAY

BASE_PLPMTU:

The BASE_PLPMTU is a conﬁgured size expected to work for most paths. The

size is equal to or larger than the MIN_PLPMTU and smaller than the MAX_PLPMTU. For most
PLs, a suitable BASE_PLPMTU will be larger than 1200 bytes. When using IPv4, there is no
currently equivalent size speciﬁed, and a default BASE_PLPMTU of 1200 bytes is
RECOMMENDED

.

5.1.3.  Variables

This method utilizes a set of variables:

PROBED_SIZE:

The PROBED_SIZE is the size of the current probe packet as determined at the

PL. This is a tentative value for the PLPMTU, which is awaiting conﬁrmation by an
acknowledgment.

PROBE_COUNT:

The PROBE_COUNT is a count of the number of successive unsuccessful probe

packets that have been sent. Each time a probe packet is acknowledged, the value is set to
zero. (Some probe loss is expected while searching, therefore loss of a single probe is not an
indication of a PMTU problem.)

Figure 3 illustrates the relationship between the packet size constants and variables at a point of
time when the DPLPMTUD algorithm performs path probing to increase the size of the PLPMTU.
A probe packet has been sent of size PROBED_SIZE. Once this is acknowledged, the PLPMTU will
raise to PROBED_SIZE, allowing the DPLPMTUD algorithm to further increase PROBED_SIZE
toward sending a probe with the size of the actual PMTU.

Figure 3: Relationships between Packet Size Constants and Variables

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

_LMOEPUNL_IZPMXPUEE_ABDLTPTMSPTBPMI_SUTAURMMPPLPRFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

5.1.4.  Overview of DPLPMTUD Phases

This section provides a high-level, informative view of the DPLPMTUD method, by describing the
movement of the method through several phases of operation. More detail is available in the
state machine, Section 5.2.

Figure 4: DPLPMTUD Phases

Base:

The Base Phase conﬁrms connectivity to the remote peer using packets of the

BASE_PLPMTU. The conﬁrmation of connectivity is implicit for a connection-oriented PL
(where it can be performed in a PL connection handshake). A connectionless PL sends a probe
packet and uses acknowledgment of this probe packet to conﬁrm that the remote peer is
reachable.

The sender also conﬁrms that BASE_PLPMTU is supported across the network path. This may
be achieved by using a PL mechanism (e.g., using a handshake packet of size BASE_PLPMTU)
or by sending a probe packet of size BASE_PLPMTU and conﬁrming that this is received.

A probe packet of size BASE_PLPMTU can be sent immediately on the initial entry to the Base
Phase (following a connectivity check). A PL that does not wish to support a path with a
PLPMTU less than BASE_PLPMTU can simplify the phase into a single step by performing the
connectivity checks with a probe of the BASE_PLPMTU size.

Once conﬁrmed, DPLPMTUD enters the Search Phase. If the Base Phase fails to conﬁrm the
BASE_PLPMTU, DPLPMTUD enters the Error Phase.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

PtaSacacrvmiEmtnnoiooMeeHTCnneUEyPiUvdhCioelA_acdrrnyniecSeeBadoPUiSBoodleSipBhrnfrtrtPdn_ctelefiiiLkLterMectadEeMnSSiAceaiCieisccmrnnfacBhtite_PrRfonoATidllTLEcaetmeotmxdtoesmtgodmParcloeshrrptonsaCnvteceyrBepRFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Search:

The Search Phase utilizes a search algorithm to send probe packets to seek to increase
the PLPMTU. The algorithm concludes when it has found a suitable PLPMTU by entering the
Search Complete Phase.

A PL could respond to PTB messages using the PTB to advance or terminate the search, see
Section 4.6.

Search Complete:

The Search Complete Phase is entered when the PLPMTU is supported across

the network path. A PL can use a CONFIRMATION_TIMER to periodically repeat a probe
packet for the current PLPMTU size. If the sender is unable to conﬁrm reachability (e.g., if the
CONFIRMATION_TIMER expires) or the PL signals a lack of reachability, a black hole has been
detected and DPLPMTUD enters the Base Phase.

The PMTU_RAISE_TIMER is used to periodically resume the Search Phase to discover if the
PLPMTU can be raised. Black hole detection causes the sender to enter the Base Phase.

Error:

The Error Phase is entered when there is conﬂicting or invalid PLPMTU information for
the path (e.g., a failure to support the BASE_PLPMTU) that causes DPLPMTUD to be unable to
progress, and the PLPMTU is lowered.

DPLPMTUD remains in the Error Phase until a consistent view of the path can be discovered
and it has also been conﬁrmed that the path supports the BASE_PLPMTU (or DPLPMTUD is
suspended).

A method that only reduces the PLPMTU to a suitable size would be suﬃcient to ensure reliable
operation but can be very ineﬃcient when the actual PMTU changes or when the method (for
whatever reason) makes a suboptimal choice for the PLPMTU.

A full implementation of DPLPMTUD provides an algorithm enabling the DPLPMTUD sender to
increase the PLPMTU following a change in the characteristics of the path, such as when a link is
reconﬁgured with a larger MTU, or when there is a change in the set of links traversed by an end-
to-end ﬂow (e.g., after a routing or path failover decision).

5.2.  State Machine

A state machine for DPLPMTUD is depicted in Figure 5. If multipath or multihoming is supported,
a state machine is needed for each path.

Note: Not all changes are shown to simplify the diagram.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Figure 5: State Machine for Datagram PLPMTUD

The following states are deﬁned:

DISABLED:

The DISABLED state is the initial state before probing has started. It is also entered
from any other state, when the PL indicates loss of connectivity. This state is left once the PL
indicates connectivity to the remote PL. When transitioning to the BASE state, a probe packet
of size BASE_PLPMTU can be sent immediately.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

oERReECCTx_iPe=PXEkRrMNPeRBdRECUTIPOIoALoEIedBNTCGPiPBtEoITrUkBE_RtP_ooEiBEM=Sop<_aPPBLelEiOpvLRBMOARCHOEPMkRRPE_yiiLRBSaIBT:cSZeEEaTvROIEnyZxPBpXSIOExSkOPITeMiAcyraPM_CPApMAiOXEMPBeTSxUPCPyAdtBIdcRXicdINeseTSLUO<PPT_OME_MBBOrRoTMxTOATnT:UStEM_ees_yrtOPD_tlEyXlPPxPiITLUATEN<E:ALteR:afkcBCStMPPlEMhoOZecTetBeNrOoAbcRMie_oTtEIB:epEPbRP_RTDRL_UOBtdECMcIB_dhERboMaSE::Np<PPBcdydT<DSeRRLROASMiRySPRTeOR_cPrTekM_PPrPPiUE__Sr=_PsMPFnPBLBraBUaEBcOSLZNtiS_lArBnOUdS_PTPra_Bo<rLoARrLTe_TO_cIe_Xrns_Uo_oPEMrUBeHPOITNEE:EOPrAceeOREncbRFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

BASE:

The BASE state is used to conﬁrm that the BASE_PLPMTU size is supported by the
network path and is designed to allow an application to continue working when there are
transient reductions in the actual PMTU. It also seeks to avoid long periods when a sender
searching for a larger PLPMTU is unaware that packets are not being delivered due to a
packet or ICMP black hole.

On entry, the PROBED_SIZE is set to the BASE_PLPMTU size, and the PROBE_COUNT is set to
zero.

Each time a probe packet is sent, the PROBE_TIMER is started. The state is exited when the
probe packet is acknowledged, and the PL sender enters the SEARCHING state.

The state is also left when the PROBE_COUNT reaches MAX_PROBES or a received PTB
message is validated. This causes the PL sender to enter the ERROR state.

SEARCHING:

The SEARCHING state is the main probing state. This state is entered when

probing for the BASE_PLPMTU completes.

Each time a probe packet is acknowledged, the PROBE_COUNT is set to zero, the PLPMTU is set
to the PROBED_SIZE, and then the PROBED_SIZE is increased using the search algorithm (as
described in Section 5.3).

When a probe packet is sent and not acknowledged within the period of the PROBE_TIMER,
the PROBE_COUNT is incremented, and a new probe packet is transmitted.

The state is exited to enter SEARCH_COMPLETE when the PROBE_COUNT reaches
MAX_PROBES, a validated PTB is received that corresponds to the last successfully probed size
(PL_PTB_SIZE = PLPMTU), or a probe of size MAX_PLPMTU is acknowledged (PLPMTU =
MAX_PLPMTU).

When a black hole is detected in the SEARCHING state, this causes the PL sender to enter the
BASE state.

SEARCH_COMPLETE:

The SEARCH_COMPLETE state indicates that a search has completed. This

is the normal maintenance state, where the PL is not probing to update the PLPMTU.
DPLPMTUD remains in this state until either the PMTU_RAISE_TIMER expires or a black hole
is detected.

When DPLPMTUD uses an unacknowledged PL and is in the SEARCH_COMPLETE state, a
CONFIRMATION_TIMER periodically resets the PROBE_COUNT and schedules a probe packet
with the size of the PLPMTU. If MAX_PROBES successive PLPMTUD-sized probes fail to be
acknowledged, the method enters the BASE state. When used with an acknowledged PL (e.g.,
SCTP), DPLPMTUD

 continue to generate PLPMTU probes in this state.

SHOULD NOT

ERROR:

The ERROR state represents the case where either the network path is not known to

support a PLPMTU of at least the BASE_PLPMTU size or when there is contradictory
information about the network path that would otherwise result in excessive variation in the
MPS signaled to the higher layer. The state implements a method to mitigate oscillation in the

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

state-event engine. It signals a conservative value of the MPS to the higher layer by the PL.
The state is exited when packet probes no longer detect the error. The PL sender then enters
the SEARCHING state.

Implementations are permitted to enable endpoint fragmentation if the DPLPMTUD is unable
to validate MIN_PLPMTU within PROBE_COUNT probes. If DPLPMTUD is unable to validate
MIN_PLPMTU, the implementation will transition to the DISABLED state.

Note: MIN_PLPMTU could be identical to BASE_PLPMTU, simplifying the actions in this state.

5.3.  Search to Increase the PLPMTU

This section describes the algorithms used by DPLPMTUD to search for a larger PLPMTU.

5.3.1.  Probing for a Larger PLPMTU

Implementations use a search algorithm across the search range to determine whether a larger
PLPMTU can be supported across a network path.

The method discovers the search range by conﬁrming the minimum PLPMTU and then using the
probe method to select a PROBED_SIZE less than or equal to MAX_PLPMTU. MAX_PLPMTU is the
minimum of the local MTU and EMTU_R (when this is learned from the remote endpoint). The
MAX_PLPMTU
will send.

 be reduced by an application that sets a maximum to the size of datagrams it

MAY

The PROBE_COUNT is initialized to zero when the ﬁrst probe with a size greater than or equal to
PLPMTU is sent. Each probe packet successfully sent to the remote peer is conﬁrmed by
acknowledgment at the PL (see Section 4.1).

Each time a probe packet is sent to the destination, the PROBE_TIMER is started. The timer is
canceled when the PL receives acknowledgment that the probe packet has been successfully sent
across the path (Section 4.1). This conﬁrms that the PROBED_SIZE is supported, and the
PROBED_SIZE value is then assigned to the PLPMTU. The search algorithm can continue to send
subsequent probe packets of an increasing size.

If the timer expires before a probe packet is acknowledged, the probe has failed to conﬁrm the
PROBED_SIZE. Each time the PROBE_TIMER expires, the PROBE_COUNT is incremented, the
PROBE_TIMER is reinitialized, and a new probe of the same size or any other size (determined by
the search algorithm) can be sent. The maximum number of consecutive failed probes is
conﬁgured (MAX_PROBES). If the value of the PROBE_COUNT reaches MAX_PROBES, probing will
stop, and the PL sender enters the SEARCH_COMPLETE state.

5.3.2.  Selection of Probe Sizes

The search algorithm determines a minimum useful gain in PLPMTU. It would not be
constructive for a PL sender to attempt to probe for all sizes. This would incur unnecessary load
on the path. Implementations
PLPMTU from each search step.

 select the set of probe packet sizes to maximize the gain in

SHOULD

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Implementations could optimize the search procedure by selecting step sizes from a table of
common PMTU sizes. When selecting the appropriate next size to search, an implementer ought
to also consider that there can be common sizes of MPS that applications seek to use, and there
could be common sizes of MTU used within the network.

5.3.3.  Resilience to Inconsistent Path Information

A decision to increase the PLPMTU needs to be resilient to the possibility that information
learned about the network path is inconsistent. A path is inconsistent when, for example, probe
packets are lost due to other reasons (i.e., not packet size) or due to frequent path changes.
Frequent path changes could occur by unexpected "ﬂapping" -- where some packets from a ﬂow
pass along one path, but other packets follow a diﬀerent path with diﬀerent properties.

A PL sender is able to detect inconsistency either from the sequence of PLPMTU probes that are
acknowledged or from the sequence of PTB messages that it receives. When inconsistent path
information is detected, a PL sender could use an alternate search mode that clamps the oﬀered
MPS to a smaller value for a period of time. This avoids unnecessary loss of packets.

5.4.  Robustness to Inconsistent Paths

Some paths could be unable to sustain packets of the BASE_PLPMTU size. The Error State could
be implemented to provide robustness to such paths. This allows fallback to a smaller than
desired PLPMTU rather than suﬀer connectivity failure. This could utilize methods such as
endpoint IP fragmentation to enable the PL sender to communicate using packets smaller than
the BASE_PLPMTU.

6.  Speciﬁcation of Protocol-Speciﬁc Methods

DPLPMTUD requires protocol-speciﬁc details to be speciﬁed for each PL that is used.

The ﬁrst subsection provides guidance on how to implement the DPLPMTUD method as a part of
an application using UDP or UDP-Lite. The guidance also applies to other datagram services that
do not include a speciﬁc transport protocol (such as a tunnel encapsulation). The following
subsections describe how DPLPMTUD can be implemented as a part of the transport service,
allowing applications using the service to beneﬁt from discovery of the PLPMTU without
themselves needing to implement this method when using SCTP and QUIC.

6.1.  Application Support for DPLPMTUD with UDP or UDP-Lite

The current speciﬁcations of UDP
the RFC series that supports PLPMTUD. In particular, the UDP transport does not provide the
transport features needed to implement datagram PLPMTUD.

 do not deﬁne a method in

 and UDP-Lite

[RFC0768]

[RFC3828]

The DPLPMTUD method can be implemented as a part of an application built directly or
indirectly on UDP or UDP-Lite but relies on higher-layer protocol features to implement the
method

[BCP145]

.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Some primitives used by DPLPMTUD might not be available via the Datagram API (e.g., the ability
to access the PLPMTU from the IP-layer cache or to interpret received PTB messages).

In addition, it is recommended that PMTU discovery is not performed by multiple protocol
 avoid using DPLPMTUD when the underlying transport system
layers. An application
provides this capability. A common method for managing the PLPMTU has beneﬁts, both in the
ability to share state between diﬀerent processes and in opportunities to coordinate probing for
diﬀerent PL instances.

SHOULD

6.1.1.  Application Request

An application needs an application-layer protocol mechanism (such as a message
acknowledgment method) that solicits a response from a destination endpoint. The method
 allow the sender to check the value returned in the response to provide additional
SHOULD
protection from oﬀ-path insertion of data
. Suitable methods include a parameter
known only to the two endpoints, such as a session ID or initialized sequence number.

[BCP145]

6.1.2.  Application Response

An application needs an application-layer protocol mechanism to communicate the response
from the destination endpoint. This response could indicate successful reception of the probe
across the path but could also indicate that some (or all packets) have failed to reach the
destination.

6.1.3.  Sending Application Probe Packets

A probe packet can carry an application data block, but the successful transmission of this data is
at risk when used for probing. Some applications might prefer to use a probe packet that does
not carry an application data block to avoid disruption of data transfer.

6.1.4.  Initial Connectivity

An application that does not have other higher-layer information conﬁrming connectivity with
the remote peer
packets before entering the BASE state.

 implement a connectivity mechanism using acknowledged probe

SHOULD

6.1.5.  Validating the Path

An application that does not have other higher-layer information conﬁrming correct delivery of
datagrams
while in the SEARCH_COMPLETE state.

 implement the CONFIRMATION_TIMER to periodically send probe packets

SHOULD

6.1.6.  Handling of PTB Messages

Section 5.2 of [BCP145]

An application that is able and wishes to receive PTB messages
speciﬁed in
message to validate that it was is received in response to transmitted traﬃc and that the reported
PL_PTB_SIZE is less than the current probed size (see Section 4.6.2). A validated PTB message
MAY
PLPMTU.

MUST
. This requires that the application checks each received PTB

 be used as input to the DPLPMTUD algorithm but

 perform ICMP validation as

 be used directly to set the

MUST NOT

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

6.2.  DPLPMTUD for SCTP

 speciﬁes a recommended PLPMTUD probing method for SCTP, and
 recommends an endpoint apply the techniques in RFC 4821 on a per-

Section 10.2 of [RFC4821]
Section 7.3 of [RFC4960]
destination-address basis. The speciﬁcation for DPLPMTUD continues the practice of using the PL
to discover the PMTU but updates RFC4960 with a recommendation to use the method speciﬁed
in this document: The
only of padding to an SCTP message. The PAD chunk deﬁned in
a minimum-length HEARTBEAT (HB) chunk to build a probe packet. This enables probing
without aﬀecting the transfer of user messages and without being limited by congestion control
or ﬂow control. This is preferred to using DATA chunks (with padding as required) as path
probes.

 method for generating probes is to add a chunk consisting
 be attached to

[RFC4820] SHOULD

RECOMMENDED

 describes dividing the user messages into DATA chunks sent by the PL

Section 6.9 of [RFC4960]
when using SCTP. This notes that once an SCTP message has been sent, it cannot be resegmented.
 describes the method for retransmitting DATA chunks when the MPS has been
[RFC4960]
reduced, and
unchanged by this document.

 describes use of IP fragmentation for this case. This is

Section 6.9 of [RFC4960]

6.2.1.  SCTP/IPv4 and SCTP/IPv6

6.2.1.1.  Initial Connectivity

[RFC4960]
The base protocol is speciﬁed in
therefore enter the BASE state as soon as connectivity has been conﬁrmed.

. This provides an acknowledged PL. A sender can

6.2.1.2.  Sending SCTP Probe Packets

Probe packets consist of an SCTP common header followed by a HEARTBEAT chunk and a PAD
chunk. The PAD chunk is used to control the length of the probe packet. The HEARTBEAT chunk
is used to trigger the sending of a HEARTBEAT ACK chunk. The reception of the HEARTBEAT ACK
chunk acknowledges reception of a successful probe. A successful probe updates the association
and path counters, but an unsuccessful probe is discounted (assumed to be a result of choosing
too large a PLPMTU).

[RFC4960]

, the probe size to help an implementation associate a HEARTBEAT ACK

The SCTP sender needs to be able to determine the total size of a probe packet. The HEARTBEAT
chunk could carry a Heartbeat Information parameter that includes, besides the information
suggested in
with the size of probe that was sent. The sender could also use other methods, such as sending a
nonce and verifying the information returned also contains the corresponding nonce. The length
of the PAD chunk is computed by reducing the probing size by the size of the SCTP common
header and the HEARTBEAT chunk. The payload of the PAD chunk contains arbitrary data. When
transmitted at the IP layer, the PMTU size also includes the IPv4 or IPv6 header(s).

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Probing can start directly after the PL handshake; this can be done before data is sent. Assuming
this behavior (i.e., the PMTU is smaller than or equal to the interface MTU), this process will take
several round-trip time periods, dependent on the number of DPLPMTUD probes sent. The
Heartbeat timer can be used to implement the PROBE_TIMER.

6.2.1.3.  Validating the Path with SCTP

Since SCTP provides an acknowledged PL, a sender
CONFIRMATION_TIMER while in the SEARCH_COMPLETE state.

MUST NOT

 implement the

6.2.1.4.  PTB Message Handling by SCTP

Normal ICMP validation
requires that the ﬁrst 8 bytes of the SCTP common header are quoted in the payload of the PTB
message, which can be the case for ICMPv4 and is normally the case for ICMPv6.

 be performed as speciﬁed in

Appendix C of [RFC4960]

. This

MUST

When a PTB message has been validated, the PL_PTB_SIZE calculated from the PTB_SIZE
reported in the PTB message
reported PL_PTB_SIZE is less than the current probe size (see Section 4.6).

 be used with the DPLPMTUD algorithm, provided that the

SHOULD

6.2.2.  DPLPMTUD for SCTP/UDP

The UDP encapsulation of SCTP is speciﬁed in

[RFC6951]

.

This speciﬁcation updates the reference to RFC 4821 in Section 5.6 of RFC 6951 to refer to this
document (RFC 8899). RFC 6951 is updated by the addition of the following sentence at the end of
Section 5.6:

RECOMMENDED

 method for determining the MTU of the path is speciﬁed in RFC

The
8899.

6.2.2.1.  Initial Connectivity

A sender can enter the BASE state as soon as SCTP connectivity has been conﬁrmed.

6.2.2.2.  Sending SCTP/UDP Probe Packets

Packet probing can be performed as speciﬁed in Section 6.2.1.2. The size of the probe packet
includes the 8 bytes of UDP header. This has to be considered when ﬁlling the probe packet with
the PAD chunk.

6.2.2.3.  Validating the Path with SCTP/UDP

SCTP provides an acknowledged PL; therefore, a sender does not implement the
CONFIRMATION_TIMER while in the SEARCH_COMPLETE state.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

6.2.2.4.  Handling of PTB Messages by SCTP/UDP

MUST

 be performed for PTB messages as speciﬁed in

ICMP validation
This requires that the ﬁrst 8 bytes of the SCTP common header are contained in the PTB message,
which can be the case for ICMPv4 (but note the UDP header also consumes a part of the quoted
packet header) and is normally the case for ICMPv6. When the validation is completed, the
PL_PTB_SIZE calculated from the PTB_SIZE in the PTB message
 be used with the
DPLPMTUD providing that the reported PL_PTB_SIZE is less than the current probe size.

.
Appendix C of [RFC4960]

SHOULD

6.2.3.  DPLPMTUD for SCTP/DTLS

The Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) encapsulation of SCTP is speciﬁed in
This is used for data channels in WebRTC implementations. This speciﬁcation updates the
reference to RFC 4821 in Section 5 of RFC 8261 to refer to this document (RFC 8899).

[RFC8261]
.

6.2.3.1.  Initial Connectivity

A sender can enter the BASE state as soon as SCTP connectivity has been conﬁrmed.

6.2.3.2.  Sending SCTP/DTLS Probe Packets

Packet probing can be done as speciﬁed in Section 6.2.1.2. The maximum payload is reduced by
the size of the DTLS headers, which has to be considered when ﬁlling the PAD chunk. The size of
the probe packet includes the DTLS PL headers. This has to be considered when ﬁlling the probe
packet with the PAD chunk.

6.2.3.3.  Validating the Path with SCTP/DTLS

Since SCTP provides an acknowledged PL, a sender
CONFIRMATION_TIMER while in the SEARCH_COMPLETE state.

MUST NOT

 implement the

6.2.3.4.  Handling of PTB Messages by SCTP/DTLS

[RFC4960]
this document. This can prevent processing of PTB messages at the PL.

 does not specify a way to validate SCTP/DTLS ICMP message payload and neither does

6.3.  DPLPMTUD for QUIC

[QUIC]

 is a UDP-based PL that provides reception feedback. The UDP payload includes a

QUIC
QUIC packet header, a protected payload, and any authentication ﬁelds. It supports padding and
packet coalescence that can be used to construct probe packets. From the perspective of
DPLPMTUD, QUIC can function as an acknowledged PL.
DPLPMTUD with QUIC packets.

 describes the method for using

[QUIC]

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

8.  Security Considerations

The security considerations for the use of UDP and SCTP are provided in the referenced RFCs.

To avoid excessive load, the interval between individual probe packets
and the interval between rounds of probing is determined by the PMTU_RAISE_TIMER.

MUST

 be at least one RTT,

A PL sender needs to ensure that the method used to conﬁrm reception of probe packets protects
from oﬀ-path attackers injecting packets into the path. This protection is provided in IETF-
deﬁned protocols (e.g., TCP, SCTP) using a randomly initialized sequence number. A description
of one way to do this when using UDP is provided in Section 5.1 of

[BCP145]

).

There are cases where ICMP Packet Too Big (PTB) messages are not delivered due to policy,
conﬁguration, or equipment design (see Section 1.1). This method therefore does not rely upon
PTB messages being received but is able to utilize these when they are received by the sender.
PTB messages could potentially be used to cause a node to inappropriately reduce the PLPMTU. A
node supporting DPLPMTUD
 therefore appropriately validate the payload of PTB messages
to ensure these are received in response to transmitted traﬃc (i.e., a reported error condition
that corresponds to a datagram actually sent by the path layer, see Section 4.6.1).

MUST

An on-path attacker able to create a PTB message could forge PTB messages that include a valid
quoted IP packet. Such an attack could be used to drive down the PLPMTU. An on-path device
could similarly force a reduction of the PLPMTU by implementing a policy that drops packets
larger than a conﬁgured size. There are two ways this method can be mitigated against such
attacks: ﬁrst, by ensuring that a PL sender never reduces the PLPMTU below the base size solely
in response to receiving a PTB message. This is achieved by ﬁrst entering the BASE state when
such a message is received. Second, the design does not require processing of PTB messages; a PL
sender could therefore suspend processing of PTB messages (e.g., in a robustness mode after
detecting that subsequent probes actually conﬁrm that a size larger than the PTB_SIZE is
supported by a path).

Parsing the quoted packet inside a PTB message can introduce additional per-packet processing
at the PL sender. This processing
 be limited to avoid a denial-of-service attack when
arbitrary headers are included. Rate-limiting the processing could result in PTB messages not
being received by a PL; however, the DPLPMTUD method is robust to such loss.

SHOULD

The successful processing of an ICMP message can trigger a probe when the reported PTB size is
valid, but this does not directly update the PLPMTU for the path. This prevents a message
attempting to black hole data by indicating a size larger than supported by the path.

It is possible that the information about a path is not stable. This could be a result of forwarding
across more than one path that has a diﬀerent actual PMTU or a single path presents a varying
PMTU. The design of a PLPMTUD implementation
varying path information. One possible mitigation is to provide robustness (see Section 5.4) in
the method that avoids oscillation in the MPS.

 consider how to mitigate the eﬀects of

SHOULD

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

DPLPMTUD methods can introduce padding data to inﬂate the length of the datagram to the total
size required for a probe packet. The total size of a probe packet includes all headers and
padding added to the payload data being sent (e.g., including security-related ﬁelds such as an
AEAD tag and TLS record layer padding). The value of the padding data does not inﬂuence the
DPLPMTUD search algorithm, and therefore needs to be set consistent with the policy of the PL.

If a PL can make use of cryptographic conﬁdentiality or data-integrity mechanisms, then the
design ought to avoid adding anything (e.g., padding) to DPLPMTUD probe packets that is not also
protected by those cryptographic mechanisms.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[BCP145]

[RFC0768]

[RFC0791]

[RFC1191]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3828]

[RFC4820]

[RFC4960]

[RFC6951]

[RFC8174]

Eggert, L., Fairhurst, G., and G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp145>
8085

, March 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Postel, J. "User Datagram Protocol" STD 6 RFC 768 DOI 10.17487/RFC0768
August 1980,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc768>

,

,

.

,

,

,

Postel, J. "Internet Protocol" STD 5 RFC 791 DOI 10.17487/RFC0791
1981,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc791>

,

,

.

, September

Mogul, J. and S. Deering "Path MTU discovery" RFC 1191 DOI 10.17487/
RFC1191

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1191>

, November 1990,

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Larzon, L-A., Degermark, M., Pink, S., Jonsson, L-E., Ed., and G. Fairhurst, Ed.
"The Lightweight User Datagram Protocol (UDP-Lite)" RFC 3828 DOI 10.17487/
RFC3828

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3828>

, July 2004,

,

,

,

.

Tuexen, M., Stewart, R., and P. Lei "Padding Chunk and Parameter for the
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)" RFC 4820 DOI 10.17487/RFC4820
March 2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4820>

,

,

.

,

,

Stewart, R., Ed. "Stream Control Transmission Protocol" RFC 4960 DOI
10.17487/RFC4960

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4960>

, September 2007,

,

,

.

Tuexen, M. and R. Stewart "UDP Encapsulation of Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP) Packets for End-Host to End-Host Communication" RFC 6951
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6951

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6951>

, May 2013,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

[RFC8200]

[RFC8201]

[RFC8261]

Deering, S. and R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc8200>

, July 2017,

,

,

,

,

.

McCann, J., Deering, S., Mogul, J., and R. Hinden, Ed. "Path MTU Discovery for IP
,
version 6" STD 87 RFC 8201 DOI 10.17487/RFC8201
<https://www.rfc-
, July 2017,
editor.org/info/rfc8201>

,

,

,

.

Tuexen, M., Stewart, R., Jesup, R., and S. Loreto "Datagram Transport Layer
Security (DTLS) Encapsulation of SCTP Packets" RFC 8261 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8261

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8261>

, November 2017,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[QUIC]

[RFC0792]

[RFC1122]

[RFC1812]

[RFC2923]

[RFC4340]

[RFC4443]

[RFC4821]

[RFC4890]

[RFC5508]

Iyengar, J., Ed. and M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and
,
Secure Transport" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-quic-transport-29
,
10 June 2020,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-quic-transport-29>

,

.

,

,
Postel, J. "Internet Control Message Protocol" STD 5 RFC 792 DOI 10.17487/
, September 1981,
RFC0792

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc792>

.

,

,

,

,

Braden, R., Ed. "Requirements for Internet Hosts - Communication Layers" STD
,
3 RFC 1122 DOI 10.17487/RFC1122
info/rfc1122>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, October 1989,

,

.

,

Baker, F., Ed. "Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers" RFC 1812 DOI 10.17487/
RFC1812

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1812>

, June 1995,

.

,

,

,

Lahey, K. "TCP Problems with Path MTU Discovery" RFC 2923 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2923

,
, September 2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2923>

,

,

.

Kohler, E., Handley, M., and S. Floyd "Datagram Congestion Control Protocol
(DCCP)" RFC 4340 DOI 10.17487/RFC4340
editor.org/info/rfc4340>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2006,

,

,

.

,

Conta, A., Deering, S., and M. Gupta, Ed. "Internet Control Message Protocol
(ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD 89 RFC
,
4443 DOI 10.17487/RFC4443
rfc4443>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2006,

,

.

,

Mathis, M. and J. Heﬀner "Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery" RFC 4821
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4821

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4821>

, March 2007,

,

,

,

Davies, E. and J. Mohacsi "Recommendations for Filtering ICMPv6 Messages in
,
Firewalls" RFC 4890 DOI 10.17487/RFC4890
editor.org/info/rfc4890>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2007,

,

.

,

Srisuresh, P., Ford, B., Sivakumar, S., and S. Guha "NAT Behavioral
,
Requirements for ICMP" BCP 148 RFC 5508 DOI 10.17487/RFC5508
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5508>

,

,

.

,

, April 2009,

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

[RFC8900]

[TUNNELS]

Bonica, R., Baker, F., Huston, G., Hinden, R., Troan, O., and F. Gont "IP
Fragmentation Considered Fragile" RFC 8900 BCP 230
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8900>

, September 2020,

,

.

,

,

,
Touch, J. and M. Townsley "IP Tunnels in the Internet Architecture" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-intarea-tunnels-10
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-intarea-tunnels-10>

, 12 September 2019,

.

,

,

Acknowledgments

This work was partially funded by the European Union Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation
Programme under grant agreement No. 644334, "A New, Evolutive API and Transport-Layer
Architecture for the Internet" (NEAT). The views expressed are solely those of the author(s).

Thanks to all who have commented or contributed, the TSVWG and QUIC working groups, and
Mathew Calder

 for providing early implementations.

Julius Flohr

 and

Authors' Addresses

Godred Fairhurst
University of Aberdeen
School of Engineering
Fraser Noble Building
Aberdeen
AB24 3UE
United Kingdom
Email:

 gorry@erg.abdn.ac.uk

Tom Jones
University of Aberdeen
School of Engineering
Fraser Noble Building
Aberdeen
AB24 3UE
United Kingdom
Email:

 tom@erg.abdn.ac.uk

Michael Tüxen
Münster University of Applied Sciences
Stegerwaldstrasse 39
48565 Steinfurt
Germany
Email:

 tuexen@fh-muenster.de

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8899

DPLPMTUD

September 2020

Irene Rüngeler
Münster University of Applied Sciences
Stegerwaldstrasse 39
48565 Steinfurt
Germany
Email:

 i.ruengeler@fh-muenster.de

Timo Völker
Münster University of Applied Sciences
Stegerwaldstrasse 39
48565 Steinfurt
Germany
Email:

 timo.voelker@fh-muenster.de

Fairhurst, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

