Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8808
Standards Track
August 2020
2070-1721
Q. Wu
Huawei

B. Lengyel
Ericsson Hungary

Y. Niu
Huawei

RFC 8808
A YANG Data Model for Factory Default Settings

Abstract

This document deﬁnes a YANG data model with the "factory-reset" RPC to allow clients to reset a
server back to its factory default condition. It also deﬁnes an optional "factory-default" datastore
to allow clients to read the factory default conﬁguration for the device.

The YANG data model in this document conforms to the Network Management Datastore
Architecture (NMDA) deﬁned in RFC 8342.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8808

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Wu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8808

Factory Default Settings

August 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

2.  "Factory-Reset" RPC

3.  "Factory-Default" Datastore

4.  YANG Module

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document deﬁnes a YANG data model and associated mechanism to reset a server to its
factory default contents. This mechanism may be used, for example, when the existing
conﬁguration has major errors and so restarting the conﬁguration process from scratch is the
best option.

A "factory-reset" remote procedure call (RPC) is deﬁned within the YANG data model. When
resetting a device, all previous conﬁguration settings will be lost and replaced by the factory
default contents.

In addition, an optional "factory-default" read-only datastore is deﬁned within the YANG data
model. This datastore contains the data to replace the contents of implemented read-write
conventional conﬁguration datastores at reset and can also be used in the <get‑data> operation.

The YANG data model in this document conforms to the Network Management Datastore
Architecture deﬁned in

[RFC8342]

.

Wu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8808

Factory Default Settings

August 2020

1.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The following terms are deﬁned in

[RFC8342]

 and

[RFC7950]

 and are not redeﬁned here:

•

server

•

startup conﬁguration datastore

•

candidate conﬁguration datastore

•

running conﬁguration datastore

•

intended conﬁguration datastore

•

operational state datastore

•

conventional conﬁguration datastore

•

datastore schema

•

RPC operation

This document deﬁnes the following term:

"factory-default" datastore:

A read-only conﬁguration datastore holding a preset initial

conﬁguration that is used to initialize the conﬁguration of a server. This datastore is
referred to as "<factory-default>".

2.  "Factory-Reset" RPC

This document introduces a new "factory-reset" RPC. Upon receiving the RPC:

•

All supported conventional read-write conﬁguration datastores (i.e., <running>, <startup>,
and <candidate>) are reset to the contents of <factory-default>.

•

Read-only datastores receive their contents from other datastores (e.g., <intended> gets its
contents from <running>).

•

All data in any dynamic conﬁguration datastores

MUST

 be discarded.

•

The contents of the <operational> datastore
after applying the factory default conﬁguration.

MUST

 reﬂect the operational state of the device

MUST

 restore nonvolatile storage to factory condition.

In addition, the "factory-reset" RPC
Depending on the system, this may entail deleting dynamically generated ﬁles, such as those
containing keys (e.g., /etc/ssl/private), certiﬁcates (e.g., /etc/ssl), logs (e.g., /var/log), and temporary
ﬁles (e.g., /tmp/*). Any other cryptographic keys that are part of the factory-installed image will
be retained (such as an Initial Device Identiﬁer (IDevID) certiﬁcate
). When this process
includes security-sensitive data such as cryptographic keys or passwords, it is

RECOMMENDED

[BRSKI]

 to

Wu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8808

Factory Default Settings

August 2020

perform the deletion in as thorough a manner as possible (e.g., overwriting the physical storage
medium with zeros and/or random bits for repurposing or end-of-life (EOL) disposal) to reduce
the risk of the sensitive material being recoverable. The "factory-reset" RPC
 also be used to
trigger some other resetting tasks such as restarting the node or some of the software processes.

MAY

Note that operators should be aware that since all read-write datastores are immediately reset to
factory default, the device may become unreachable as a host on the network. It is important to
understand how a given vendor's device will behave after the RPC is executed. Implementors
SHOULD
to bootstrap it.

 reboot the device and get it properly conﬁgured or otherwise restart processes needed

3.  "Factory-Default" Datastore

Following the guidelines for deﬁning datastores in
introduces a new optional datastore resource named "factory-default" that represents a preset
initial conﬁguration that can be used to initialize the conﬁguration of a server. A device
implement the "factory-reset" RPC without implementing the "factory-default" datastore, which
would only eliminate the ability to programmatically determine the factory default
conﬁguration.

Appendix A of [RFC8342]

, this document

MAY

Name:

"factory-default".

YANG modules:

The "factory-default" datastore schema

 be either (1) the same as the
conventional conﬁguration datastores or (2) a subset of the datastore schema for the
conventional conﬁguration datastores.

MUST

YANG nodes:

All "conﬁg true" data nodes.

Management operations:

The contents of the datastore is set by the server in an

implementation-dependent manner. The contents cannot be changed by management
operations via the Network Conﬁguration Protocol (NETCONF), RESTCONF, the CLI, etc.,
unless specialized, dedicated operations are provided. The datastore can be read using the
standard NETCONF/RESTCONF protocol operations. The "factory-reset" operation copies
the factory default contents to <running> and, if present, <startup> and/or <candidate>.
The contents of these datastores is then propagated automatically to any other read-only
datastores, e.g., <intended> and <operational>.

Origin:

This document does not deﬁne a new origin identity, as it does not interact with the

<operational> datastore.

Protocols:

RESTCONF, NETCONF, and other management protocols.

Deﬁning YANG module:

"ietf-factory-default".

The contents of <factory-default> are deﬁned by the device vendor and
device restarts. If supported, the "factory-default" datastore
datastores in the YANG library

.
[RFC8525]

MUST

MUST

 persist across
 be included in the list of

Wu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8808

Factory Default Settings

August 2020

4.  YANG Module

This module uses the "datastore" identity
[RFC8341]
statement from

.

[RFC8342]

 and the "default‑deny-all" extension

Wu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8808

Factory Default Settings

August 2020

<CODE BEGINS> file "ietf-factory-default@2020-08-31.yang"

   module ietf-factory-default {
     yang-version 1.1;
     namespace "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-factory-default";
     prefix fd;

     import ietf-datastores {
       prefix ds;
       reference
         "RFC 8342: Network Management Datastore Architecture
          (NMDA)";
     }
     import ietf-netconf-acm {
       prefix nacm;
       reference
         "RFC 8341: Network Configuration Access Control Model";
     }

     organization
       "IETF Network Modeling (netmod) Working Group";
     contact
       "WG Web:   <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/netmod/>
        WG List:  <mailto:netmod@ietf.org>

        Editor:   Qin Wu
                  <mailto:bill.wu@huawei.com>

        Editor:   Balazs Lengyel
                  <mailto:balazs.lengyel@ericsson.com>

        Editor:   Ye Niu
                  <mailto:niuye@huawei.com>";
     description
       "This module provides functionality to reset a server to its
        factory default configuration and, when supported, to
        discover the factory default configuration contents
        independently of resetting the server.

        Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identified as
        authors of the code.  All rights reserved.

        Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
        without modification, is permitted pursuant to, and subject
        to the license terms contained in, the Simplified BSD License
        set forth in Section 4.c of the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions
        Relating to IETF Documents
        (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info).

        This version of this YANG module is part of RFC 8808; see the
        RFC itself for full legal notices.";

     revision 2020-08-31 {
       description
         "Initial revision.";
       reference
         "RFC 8808: A YANG Data Model for Factory Default Settings";

Wu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8808

Factory Default Settings

August 2020

     }

     feature factory-default-datastore {
       description
         "Indicates that the factory default configuration is
          available as a datastore.";
     }

     rpc factory-reset {
       nacm:default-deny-all;
       description
         "The server resets all datastores to their factory
          default contents and any nonvolatile storage back to
          factory condition, deleting all dynamically
          generated files, including those containing keys,
          certificates, logs, and other temporary files.

          Depending on the factory default configuration, after
          being reset, the device may become unreachable on the
          network.";
     }

     identity factory-default {
       if-feature "factory-default-datastore";
       base ds:datastore;
       description
         "This read-only datastore contains the factory default
          configuration for the device that will be used to replace
          the contents of the read-write conventional configuration
          datastores during a 'factory-reset' RPC operation.";
     }
   }
<CODE ENDS>

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following URI in the "ns" subregistry within the "IETF XML Registry"
[RFC3688]
:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-factory-default

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

The IESG.

N/A; the requested URI is an XML namespace.

IANA has registered the following YANG module in the "YANG Module Names" subregistry
[RFC6020]

 within the "YANG Parameters" registry:

ietf-factory-default

Name:
Namespace:
fd
Preﬁx:
Reference:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-factory-default

8808

Wu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8808

Factory Default Settings

August 2020

6.  Security Considerations

The YANG module speciﬁed in this document deﬁnes a schema for data that is designed to be
accessed via network management protocols such as NETCONF
[RFC8040]
implement secure transport is Secure Shell (SSH)
HTTPS, and the mandatory-to-implement secure transport is TLS

. The lowest NETCONF layer is the secure transport layer, and the mandatory-to-
. The lowest RESTCONF layer is
.

 or RESTCONF

[RFC6241]

[RFC6242]

[RFC8446]

The Network Conﬁguration Access Control Model (NACM)
 provides the means to
restrict access for particular NETCONF or RESTCONF users to a preconﬁgured subset of all
available NETCONF or RESTCONF protocol operations and content.

[RFC8341]

Access to the "factory-reset" RPC operation and factory default values of all conﬁguration data
nodes within the "factory-default" datastore is considered sensitive and therefore has been
restricted by using the "default-deny-all" access control statement deﬁned in

[RFC8341]

.

The "factory-reset" RPC can prevent any further management of the device when the server is
reset back to its factory default condition, e.g., the session and client conﬁgurations are included
in the factory default contents or treated as dynamic ﬁles in nonvolatile storage and overwritten
by the "factory-reset" RPC.

The operational disruption caused by setting the conﬁguration to factory default contents or the
lack of appropriate security control on the factory default conﬁguration varies greatly,
depending on the implementation and current conﬁguration.

The nonvolatile storage is expected to be wiped clean and reset back to the factory default state,
but there is no guarantee that the data is wiped clean according to any particular data-cleansing
standard, and the owner of the device
being forensically unrecoverable from the device's nonvolatile storage after a "factory-reset" RPC
has been invoked.

 rely on any sensitive data (e.g., private keys)

MUST NOT

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3688]

[RFC6020]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
January 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>

,
.

,

,

,

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "YANG - A Data Modeling Language for the Network
,
Conﬁguration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6020 DOI 10.17487/RFC6020
2010,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6020>

.

,

, October

Wu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8808

Factory Default Settings

August 2020

[RFC6241]

[RFC6242]

[RFC7950]

[RFC8040]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8341]

[RFC8342]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8525]

Enns, R., Ed., Bjorklund, M., Ed., Schoenwaelder, J., Ed., and A. Bierman, Ed.
"Network Conﬁguration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6241 DOI 10.17487/RFC6241
June 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6241>

,

,

,

.

,

,

Wasserman, M. "Using the NETCONF Protocol over Secure Shell (SSH)" RFC
6242 DOI 10.17487/RFC6242
,
rfc6242>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2011,

.

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language" RFC 7950 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC7950
.
, August 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7950>

,

,

Bierman, A., Bjorklund, M., and K. Watsen "RESTCONF Protocol" RFC 8040 DOI
10.17487/RFC8040

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8040>

, January 2017,

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Bierman, A. and M. Bjorklund "Network Conﬁguration Access Control Model"
STD 91 RFC 8341 DOI 10.17487/RFC8341
editor.org/info/rfc8341>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2018,

,

,

,

.

,

Bjorklund, M., Schoenwaelder, J., Shafer, P., Watsen, K., and R. Wilton "Network
,
Management Datastore Architecture (NMDA)" RFC 8342 DOI 10.17487/RFC8342
March 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8342>

,

,

.

,

,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Bierman, A., Bjorklund, M., Schoenwaelder, J., Watsen, K., and R. Wilton "YANG
Library" RFC 8525 DOI 10.17487/RFC8525
editor.org/info/rfc8525>

,
<https://www.rfc-

, March 2019,

,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[BRSKI]

Pritikin, M., Richardson, M. C., Eckert, T., Behringer, M. H., and K. Watsen
"Bootstrapping Remote Secure Key Infrastructures (BRSKI)" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-anima-bootstrapping-keyinfra-43
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-anima-bootstrapping-keyinfra-43>

, 7 August 2020,

,

.

,

,

Acknowledgements

Juergen Schoenwaelder Ladislav Lhotka Alex Campbell Joe Clarke Robert Wilton
Thanks to
,
Kent Watsen Joel Jaeggli Lou Berger Andy Bierman Susan Hares Benjamin Kaduk Stephen
Kent Stewart Bryant Éric Vyncke Murray Kucherawy Roman Danyliw Tony Przygienda
John Heasley
 for reviewing, and providing important input to, this document.

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

, and

,

Wu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8808

Factory Default Settings

August 2020

Contributors

Rohit R Ranade
Huawei
Email:

 rohitrranade@huawei.com

Authors' Addresses

Qin Wu
Huawei
Yuhua District
101 Software Avenue
Nanjing
Jiangsu 210012
,
China
Email:

 bill.wu@huawei.com

Balazs Lengyel
Ericsson Hungary
Budapest
Magyar Tudosok korutja 11
1117
Hungary
Phone:
Email:

 +36-70-330-7909
 balazs.lengyel@ericsson.com

Ye Niu
Huawei
Email:

 niuye@huawei.com

Wu, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

