Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8697
Standards Track
January 2020
2070-1721

I. Minei
Google, Inc.

E. Crabbe
Individual Contributor

S. Sivabalan
Cisco Systems, Inc.

H. Ananthakrishnan
Netﬂix

D. Dhody
Huawei

Y. Tanaka
NTT Communications Corporation

RFC 8697
Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
(PCEP) Extensions for Establishing Relationships
between Sets of Label Switched Paths (LSPs)

Abstract

This document introduces a generic mechanism to create a grouping of Label Switched Paths
(LSPs) in the context of a Path Computation Element (PCE). This grouping can then be used to
deﬁne associations between sets of LSPs or between a set of LSPs and a set of attributes (such as
conﬁguration parameters or behaviors), and it is equally applicable to the stateful PCE (active
and passive modes) and the stateless PCE.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8697

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Terminology

3.  Architectural Overview

3.1.  Motivations

3.2.  Relationship to the SVEC List

3.3.  Operational Overview

3.4.  Operator-Conﬁgured Association Range

4.  Discovery of Supported Association Types

4.1.  ASSOC-Type-List TLV

4.1.1.  Procedure

5.  Operator-Conﬁgured Association Range TLV

5.1.  Procedure

6.  ASSOCIATION Object

6.1.  Object Deﬁnition

6.1.1.  Global Association Source TLV

6.1.2.  Extended Association ID TLV

6.1.3.  Association Source

6.1.4.  Unique Identiﬁcation for an Association Group

6.2.  Relationship to the RSVP ASSOCIATION Object

6.3.  Object Encoding in PCEP Messages

6.3.1.  Stateful PCEP Messages

6.3.2.  Request Message

6.3.3.  Reply Message

6.4.  Processing Rules

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  PCEP Object

7.2.  PCEP TLV

7.3.  Association Flags

7.4.  Association Type

7.5.  PCEP-Error Object

8.  Security Considerations

9.  Manageability Considerations

9.1.  Control of Function and Policy

9.2.  Information and Data Models

9.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

9.4.  Verifying Correct Operation

9.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

9.6.  Impact on Network Operations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Example of an Operator-Conﬁgured Association Range

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 describes the Path Computation Element (PCE) Communication Protocol (PCEP). PCEP

[RFC5440]
enables communication between a Path Computation Client (PCC) and a PCE, or between a PCE
and another PCE, for the purpose of the computation of Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) as
well as Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) Traﬃc Engineering Label Switched Path (TE LSP)
characteristics.

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

 speciﬁes a set of extensions to PCEP to enable stateful control of TE LSPs within and
. It includes mechanisms to eﬀect LSP State

[RFC8231]
across PCEP sessions in compliance with
Synchronization between PCCs and PCEs, delegation of control over LSPs to PCEs, and PCE
control of timing and sequence of path computations within and across PCEP sessions. The
operational model whereby LSPs are initiated from the PCE is described in

.
[RFC8281]

[RFC4657]

 deﬁnes the RSVP ASSOCIATION object, which was deﬁned in the context of GMPLS-

[RFC4872]
controlled LSPs to be used to associate recovery LSPs with the LSP they are protecting. This
object also has broader applicability as a mechanism to associate RSVP state.
how the ASSOCIATION object can be more generally applied by deﬁning the Extended
ASSOCIATION object.

[RFC6780]

 describes

This document introduces a generic mechanism to create a grouping of LSPs. This grouping can
then be used to deﬁne associations between sets of LSPs or between a set of LSPs and a set of
attributes (such as conﬁguration parameters or behaviors), and it is equally applicable to the
stateful PCE (active and passive modes) and the stateless PCE. The associations could be created
dynamically and conveyed to a PCEP peer within PCEP, or they could be conﬁgured manually by
an operator on the PCEP peers. Refer to Section 3.3 for more details.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Terminology

This document uses the following terms deﬁned in

[RFC5440]

:

•

PCC

•

PCE

•

PCEP Peer

•

Path Computation Request (PCReq)

•

Path Computation Reply (PCRep)

•

PCEP Error (PCErr)

This document uses the following terms deﬁned in

[RFC8051]

:

•

Stateful PCE

•

Active Stateful PCE

•

Passive Stateful PCE

•

Delegation

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

This document uses the following terms deﬁned in

[RFC8231]

:

•

LSP State Report (PCRpt)

•

LSP Update Request (PCUpd)

•

State Timeout Interval

This document uses the following terms deﬁned in

[RFC8281]

:

•

PCE-initiated LSP

•

LSP Initiate Request (PCInitiate)

3.  Architectural Overview

3.1.  Motivations

A stateful PCE provides the ability to update existing LSPs and to instantiate new ones. There are
various situations where several LSPs need to share common information. For example, to
support PCE-controlled make-before-break, an association between the original path and the
reoptimized path is desired. Similarly, for end-to-end protection, an association between working
and protection LSPs is required (see
between a group of LSPs could be used (see
would be to apply a common set of conﬁguration parameters or behaviors to a set of LSPs.

). Another use for an LSP grouping

). For diverse paths, an association

[PCE-PROTECTION]

[PCE-DIVERSITY]

For a stateless PCE, it might be useful to associate a PCReq message to an association group, thus
enabling it to associate a common set of policies, conﬁguration parameters, or behaviors with the
request.

Some associations could be created dynamically, such as an association between the working and
protection LSPs of a tunnel, whereas some associations could be created by the operator
manually, such as a policy-based association where the LSP could join an operator-conﬁgured
existing association.

Rather than creating separate mechanisms for each use case, this document deﬁnes a generic
mechanism that can be reused as needed.

3.2.  Relationship to the SVEC List

[RFC5440]

 deﬁnes a mechanism for the synchronization of a set of PCReq messages by

Note that
using the SVEC (Synchronization VECtor) object, which speciﬁes the list of synchronized requests
that can be either dependent or independent. The SVEC object identiﬁes the relationship between
the set of PCReq messages, identiﬁed by "Request-ID-number" in the RP (Request Parameters)
object.
 further clariﬁes the use of the SVEC list for synchronized path computations
when computing dependent requests, and it describes a number of usage scenarios for SVEC lists
within single-domain and multi-domain environments.

[RFC6007]

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

The motivations behind the association group deﬁned in this document and the SVEC object are
quite diﬀerent, though some use cases may overlap. PCEP extensions that deﬁne a new
Association Type should clarify the relationship between the SVEC object and the Association
Type, if any.

3.3.  Operational Overview

LSPs are associated with other LSPs with which they interact by adding them to a common
association group. Association groups as deﬁned in this document can be applied to LSPs
originating at the same headend or diﬀerent headends.

Some associations could be created dynamically by a PCEP speaker, and the associations (along
with the set of LSPs) are conveyed to a PCEP peer. Whereas some associations are conﬁgured by
the operator beforehand on the PCEP peers in question, a PCEP speaker could then ask an LSP to
join the Operator-conﬁgured Association. Usage of dynamic and conﬁgured associations is
usually dependent on the type of association.

For Operator-conﬁgured Associations, the association parameters, such as the Association
Identiﬁer (Association ID), Association Type, and the Association Source IP address, are manually
conﬁgured by the operator. In the case of a dynamic association, the association parameters,
such as the Association ID, are allocated dynamically by the PCEP speaker. The Association
Source is set as the local PCEP speaker address unless local policy dictates otherwise, in which
case the Association Source is set based on the local policy.

The dynamically created association can be reported to the PCEP peer via the PCEP messages as
per the stateful extensions. When the Operator-conﬁgured Association is known to the PCEP peer
beforehand, a PCEP peer could ask an LSP to join the Operator-conﬁgured Association via the
stateful PCEP messages.

The associations are properties of the LSP and thus could be stored in the LSP state database. The
dynamic association exists as long as the LSP state exists. In the case of PCEP session termination,
the LSP state cleanup

 also take care of associations.

MUST

Multiple types of associations can exist, each with its own Association ID space. The deﬁnition of
the diﬀerent Association Types and their behaviors is outside the scope of this document. The
establishment and removal of the association relationship can be done on a per-LSP basis. An
LSP may join multiple association groups that have the same Association Type or diﬀerent
Association Types.

3.4.  Operator-Conﬁgured Association Range

Some Association Types are dynamic, some are operator conﬁgured, and some could be both. For
the Association Types that could be both dynamic and operator conﬁgured and use the same
Association Source, it is necessary to distinguish a range of Association IDs that are marked for
Operator-conﬁgured Associations, to avoid any Association ID clashes within the scope of the
Association Source. This document assumes that these two ranges are conﬁgured.

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

A range of Association IDs for each Association Type (and Association Source) is kept for the
Operator-conﬁgured Associations. Dynamic associations
this range.

 use the Association ID from

MUST NOT

This range, as set at the PCEP speaker (a PCC or PCE, as an Association Source), needs to be
communicated to a PCEP peer in the Open message. A new TLV is deﬁned in this speciﬁcation for
this purpose (Section 5). See Appendix A for an example.

The Association ID range for sources other than the PCEP speaker (for example, a Network
Management System (NMS)) is not communicated in PCEP, and the procedure for Operator-
conﬁgured Association Range settings is outside the scope of this document.

4.  Discovery of Supported Association Types

This section deﬁnes PCEP extensions so as to support the capability advertisement of the
Association Types supported by a PCEP speaker.

A new PCEP ASSOC-Type-List (Association Types list) TLV is deﬁned. The PCEP ASSOC-Type-List
TLV is carried within an OPEN object. This way, during the PCEP session-setup phase, a PCEP
speaker can advertise to a PCEP peer the list of supported Association Types.

4.1.  ASSOC-Type-List TLV

The PCEP ASSOC-Type-List TLV is
OPTIONAL MAY
PCEP speaker in an Open message to a PCEP peer so as to indicate the list of supported
Association Types.

 be carried within an OPEN object sent by a

. It

. That is, the TLV is composed of 2 octets for the type, 2 octets specifying the TLV length,

The PCEP ASSOC-Type-List TLV format is compliant with the PCEP TLV format deﬁned in
[RFC5440]
and a Value ﬁeld. The Length ﬁeld deﬁnes the length of the value portion in octets. The TLV is
padded to 4-octet alignment, and padding is not included in the Length ﬁeld (e.g., a 3-octet value
would have a length of three, but the total size of the TLV would be 8 octets).

The PCEP ASSOC-Type-List TLV has the following format:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |         Type                  |            Length             |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |          Assoc-Type #1        |      Assoc-Type #2            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                                                             //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |          Assoc-Type #N        |       padding                 |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: The ASSOC-Type-List TLV Format

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

Type:

35

Length:

N * 2 (where N is the number of Association Types).

Value:

List of 2-byte Association Type code points, identifying the Association Types supported

by the sender of the Open message.

Assoc-Type (2 bytes):

Association Type code point identiﬁer. IANA manages the "ASSOCIATION

Type Field" code point registry (see Section 7.4).

4.1.1.  Procedure

An ASSOC-Type-List TLV within an OPEN object in an Open message is included by a PCEP
speaker in order to advertise a set of one or more supported Association Types. The ASSOC-Type-
List TLV
PCEP session
failure / Reception of an invalid Open message). As speciﬁed in
not recognize the ASSOC-Type-List TLV will silently ignore it.

 appear more than once in an OPEN object. If it appears more than once, the
 be rejected with Error-Type 1 and Error-value 1 (PCEP session establishment
, a PCEP peer that does

[RFC5440]

MUST NOT

MUST

The Association Type (to be deﬁned in future documents) can specify if the Association Type
advertisement is mandatory for it. Thus, the ASSOC-Type-List TLV
one mandatory Association Type needs to be advertised, and the ASSOC-Type-List TLV
included otherwise. For an Association Type that speciﬁes that the advertisement is mandatory, a
missing Assoc-Type in the ASSOC-Type-List TLV (or a missing ASSOC-Type-List TLV) is to be
interpreted as meaning that the Association Type is not supported by the PCEP speaker.

 be included if at least
 be

MUST

MAY

The absence of the ASSOC-Type-List TLV in an OPEN object
information in the list of supported Association Types (rather than an indication that the
Association Type is not supported). In this case, the PCEP speaker could still use the
ASSOCIATION object: if the peer does not support the association, it will react as per the
procedure described in Section 6.4.

MUST

 be interpreted as an absence of

If the use of the ASSOC-Type-List TLV is triggered by support for a mandatory Association Type,
then it is
 that the PCEP implementation include all supported Association Types
(including optional types) to ease the operations of the PCEP peer.

RECOMMENDED

5.  Operator-Conﬁgured Association Range TLV

This section deﬁnes a PCEP extension to support the advertisement of the Operator-conﬁgured
Association Range used for an Association Type by the PCEP speaker (as an Association Source).

A new PCEP OP-CONF-ASSOC-RANGE (Operator-conﬁgured Association Range) TLV is deﬁned.
The PCEP OP-CONF-ASSOC-RANGE TLV is carried within an OPEN object. This way, during the
PCEP session-setup phase, a PCEP speaker can advertise to a PCEP peer the Operator-conﬁgured
Association Range for an Association Type.

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

 be carried within an OPEN object
The PCEP OP-CONF-ASSOC-RANGE TLV is
sent by a PCEP speaker in an Open message to a PCEP peer. The OP-CONF-ASSOC-RANGE TLV
format is compliant with the PCEP TLV format deﬁned in
of 2 bytes for the type, 2 bytes specifying the TLV length, and a Value ﬁeld. The Length ﬁeld
deﬁnes the length of the value portion in bytes.

OPTIONAL MAY

[RFC5440]

. That is, the TLV is composed

. It

The PCEP OP-CONF-ASSOC-RANGE TLV has the following format:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |         Type                  |            Length             |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |             Reserved          |          Assoc-Type #1        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |      Start-Assoc-ID #1        |           Range #1            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                                                             //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |             Reserved          |          Assoc-Type #N        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |      Start-Assoc-ID #N        |           Range #N            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: The OP-CONF-ASSOC-RANGE TLV Format

Type:

29

Length:

N * 8 (where N is the number of Association Types).

Value:

Includes the following ﬁelds, repeated for each Association Type:

Reserved (2 bytes):

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

Assoc-Type (2 bytes):

The Association Type (Section 7.4). The Association Types will be

deﬁned in future documents.

Start-Assoc-ID (2 bytes):

The "start association" identiﬁer for the Operator-conﬁgured

Association Range for the particular Association Type. The values 0 and 0xﬀﬀ
NOT
error message is sent (see Section 5.1).

 be used; on receipt of these values in the TLV, the session is rejected, and an

MUST

Range (2 bytes):

The number of associations marked for the Operator-conﬁgured

Associations. Range
+ Range) does not cross the largest Association ID value of 0xﬀﬀ. If this condition is
not satisﬁed, the session is rejected, and an error message is sent (see Section 5.1).

 be greater than 0, and it

 be such that (Start-Assoc-ID

MUST

MUST

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

5.1.  Procedure

MAY

A PCEP speaker
 include an OP-CONF-ASSOC-RANGE TLV within an OPEN object in an Open
message sent to a PCEP peer in order to advertise the Operator-conﬁgured Association Range for
 appear more than once in an
an Association Type. The OP-CONF-ASSOC-RANGE TLV
OPEN object. If it appears more than once, the PCEP session
 be rejected with Error-Type 1
and Error-value 1 (PCEP session establishment failure / Reception of an invalid Open message).

MUST NOT

MUST

As speciﬁed in
will silently ignore it.

[RFC5440]

, a PCEP peer that does not recognize the OP-CONF-ASSOC-RANGE TLV

 be included for each Association Type that
The Operator-conﬁgured Association Range
SHOULD
could be both dynamic and operator conﬁgured. For Association Types that are only dynamic or
only operator conﬁgured, this TLV
IDs is considered dynamic or operator conﬁgured, respectively. Each Association Type (to be
deﬁned in future documents) can specify the default value for its Operator-conﬁgured
Association Range.

 be skipped, in which case the full range of Association

MAY

The absence of the OP-CONF-ASSOC-RANGE TLV in an OPEN object
absence of an explicit Operator-conﬁgured Association Range at the PCEP peer. In this case, the
default behavior as per each Association Type applies. If the Association Source is not a PCEP
speaker, the default value for the Operator-conﬁgured Association Range is used for the
Association Source.

 be interpreted as an

MUST

If the Assoc-Type is not recognized or supported by the PCEP speaker, it
respective (Start-Assoc-ID + Range). If the Assoc-Type is recognized/supported but Start-Assoc-ID
 be rejected with Error-Type 1 and Error-value
or Range is set incorrectly, the PCEP session
MUST
1 (PCEP session establishment failure / Reception of an invalid Open message). The incorrect
range includes the case when the (Start-Assoc-ID + Range) crosses the largest Association ID value
of 0xﬀﬀ.

 ignore that

MUST

MAY

MUST NOT

A given Assoc-Type
 appear more than once in the OP-CONF-ASSOC-RANGE TLV in the case
of a non-contiguous Operator-conﬁgured Association Range. The PCEP speaker originating this
TLV
overlapping ranges for an Association Type, it
MUST
failure / Reception of an invalid Open message).

MUST
 reject the PCEP session with Error-Type 1 and Error-value 1 (PCEP session establishment

 send overlapping ranges for an Association Type. If a PCEP peer receives

 consider the Open message malformed and

There may be cases where an Operator-conﬁgured Association was conﬁgured with association
parameters (such as an Association ID, Association Type, and Association Source) at the local
PCEP speaker, and the PCEP session is later established with the Association Source and a new
operator-conﬁgured range is learned during session establishment. At this time, the local PCEP
speaker
disassociating any LSPs that are part of it (and notifying the PCEP peer of this change)). If a PCEP

 remove any associations that are not in the new operator-conﬁgured range (by

MUST

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

speaker receives an association for an Operator-conﬁgured Association and the Association ID is
not in the Operator-conﬁgured Association Range for the Association Type and Association
Source, it

 generate an error (as described in Section 6.4).

MUST

6.  ASSOCIATION Object

6.1.  Object Deﬁnition

Association groups and their memberships are deﬁned using a new ASSOCIATION object.

The ASSOCIATION Object-Class value is 40.

The ASSOCIATION Object-Type value is 1 for IPv4, and its format is shown in Figure 3:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |         Reserved              |            Flags            |R|
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |      Association Type         |      Association ID           |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              IPv4 Association Source                          |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                   Optional TLVs                             //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: The IPv4 ASSOCIATION Object Format

The ASSOCIATION Object-Type value is 2 for IPv6, and its format is shown in Figure 4:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |         Reserved              |            Flags            |R|
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |      Association Type         |      Association ID           |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
  |                    IPv6 Association Source                    |
  |                                                               |
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                   Optional TLVs                             //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: The IPv6 ASSOCIATION Object Format

Reserved (2 bytes):

MUST

 be set to 0 and ignored upon receipt.

Flags (2 bytes):

The following ﬂag is currently deﬁned:

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

R (Removal - 1 bit):

When set, the requesting PCEP peer requires the removal of an LSP

from the association group. When unset, the PCEP peer indicates that the LSP is
added or retained as part of the association group. This ﬂag is used for the
ASSOCIATION object in the Path Computation Report (PCRpt) and Path Computation
Update (PCUpd) messages. It is ignored in other PCEP messages.

The unassigned ﬂags

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

Association Type (2 bytes):

The Association Type (Section 7.4). The Association Types will be

deﬁned in future documents.

Association ID (2 bytes):

The identiﬁer of the association group. When combined with other
association parameters, such as an Association Type and Association Source, this value
uniquely identiﬁes an association group. The values 0xﬀﬀ and 0x0 are reserved. The value
0xﬀﬀ is used to indicate all association groups and could be used with the R ﬂag to indicate
removal for all associations for the LSP within the scope of the Association Type and
Association Source.

Association Source:

Contains a valid IPv4 address (4 bytes) if the ASSOCIATION Object-Type is 1

or a valid IPv6 address (16 bytes) if the ASSOCIATION Object-Type is 2. The address
provides scoping for the Association ID. See Section 6.1.3 for details.

Optional TLVs:

The optional TLVs follow the PCEP TLV format deﬁned in

[RFC5440]

. This

document deﬁnes two optional TLVs. Other documents can deﬁne more TLVs in the future.

6.1.1.  Global Association Source TLV

The Global Association Source TLV is an optional TLV for use in the ASSOCIATION object. The
meaning and usage of the Global Association Source TLV are as per

Section 4 of [RFC6780]

.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |         Type                  |            Length             |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Global Association Source                        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: The Global Association Source TLV Format

Type:

30

Length:

Fixed value of 4 bytes.

Global Association Source:

As deﬁned in

Section 4 of [RFC6780]

.

6.1.2.  Extended Association ID TLV

The Extended Association ID TLV is an optional TLV for use in the ASSOCIATION object. The
meaning and usage of the Extended Association ID TLV are as per

Section 4 of [RFC6780]

.

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |         Type                  |            Length             |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                Extended Association ID                      //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: The Extended Association ID TLV Format

Type:

31

Length:

Variable.

Extended Association ID:

As deﬁned in

Section 4 of [RFC6780]

.

6.1.3.  Association Source

The Association Source ﬁeld in the ASSOCIATION object is set to a valid IP address to identify the
node that originated the association. In the case of dynamic associations, the Association Source
is usually set as the local PCEP speaker address unless local policy dictates otherwise, in which
case the Association Source is set based on the local policy. In the case of PCE redundancy, local
policy could set the source as a virtual IP address that identiﬁes all instances of the PCE. In the
case of Operator-conﬁgured Associations, the Association Source is manually conﬁgured, and it
could be set as one of the PCEP speakers, an NMS, or any other valid IP address that scopes the
Association ID for the Association Type.

6.1.4.  Unique Identiﬁcation for an Association Group

The combination of the mandatory ﬁelds Association Type, Association ID, and Association
Source in the ASSOCIATION object uniquely identiﬁes the association group. If the optional TLVs
(Global Association Source and Extended Association ID) are included, then they
included in combination with mandatory ﬁelds to uniquely identify the association group. In this
document, all these ﬁelds are collectively called "association parameters". Note that the
ASSOCIATION object
 include other optional TLVs (not deﬁned in this document) based on
the Association Types. These TLVs provide "information" related to the Association Type. This
document refers to this information as "association information".

MUST

MAY

 be

6.2.  Relationship to the RSVP ASSOCIATION Object

The format of the PCEP ASSOCIATION object deﬁned in this document is aligned with the RSVP
ASSOCIATION object
[RFC6780]
,
deﬁned in
[RFC4872] [RFC4873]
Association Types should clarify how the PCEP associations would work with RSVP associations
and vice versa.

. Various Association Types related to RSVP association are
, and

. The PCEP extensions that deﬁne new

[RFC7551]

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

6.3.  Object Encoding in PCEP Messages

Message formats in this document are expressed using Routing BNF (RBNF) as used in
and deﬁned in

[RFC5511]

.

[RFC5440]

6.3.1.  Stateful PCEP Messages

The ASSOCIATION object
(PCInitiate) messages.

MAY

 be carried in the PCUpd, PCRpt, and Path Computation Initiate

When carried in a PCRpt message, this object is used to report the association group membership
pertaining to an LSP to a stateful PCE. The PCRpt message is used for initial State Synchronization
operations (
), as well as whenever the state of the LSP changes. If the LSP
belongs to an association group, then the associations
Synchronization operations.

 be included during the State

Section 5.6 of [RFC8231]

MUST

The PCRpt message can also be used to remove an LSP from one or more association groups by
setting the R ﬂag to 1 in the ASSOCIATION object.

When an LSP is ﬁrst reported to the PCE, the PCRpt message
groups that it belongs to. Any subsequent PCRpt message
that are being modiﬁed or removed.

MUST

 include all the association
 include only the associations

SHOULD

The PCRpt message is deﬁned in

[RFC8231]

 and updated as shown below:

   <PCRpt Message> ::= <Common Header>
                       <state-report-list>

Where:

      <state-report-list> ::= <state-report>[<state-report-list>]

      <state-report> ::= [<SRP>]
                         <LSP>
                         [<association-list>]
                         <path>

Where:

      <path>::= <intended-path>
                [<actual-attribute-list><actual-path>]
                <intended-attribute-list>

      <association-list> ::= <ASSOCIATION> [<association-list>]

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

When an LSP is delegated to a stateful PCE, the stateful PCE can create a new association group
for this LSP or associate it with one or more existing association groups. This is done by including
the ASSOCIATION object in a PCUpd message. A stateful PCE can also remove a delegated LSP
from one or more association groups by setting the R ﬂag to 1 in the ASSOCIATION object.

The PCUpd message
There is no need to include associations that remain unchanged.

SHOULD

 include the association groups that are being modiﬁed or removed.

The PCUpd message is deﬁned in

[RFC8231]

 and updated as shown below:

 <PCUpd Message> ::= <Common Header>
                     <update-request-list>

Where:

    <update-request-list> ::= <update-request>[<update-request-list>]

    <update-request> ::= <SRP>
                         <LSP>
                         [<association-list>]
                         <path>

Where:

    <path>::= <intended-path><intended-attribute-list>

    <association-list> ::= <ASSOCIATION> [<association-list>]

Unless a PCEP speaker wants to delete an association from an LSP or make changes to the
association, it does not need to include the ASSOCIATION object in future stateful messages.

A PCE initiating a new LSP can also include the association groups that this LSP belongs to. This is
done by including the ASSOCIATION object in a PCInitiate message. The PCInitiate message
MUST
include all the association groups that it belongs to. The PCInitiate message is deﬁned in
[RFC8281]

 and updated as shown below:

<PCInitiate Message> ::= <Common Header>
                         <PCE-initiated-lsp-list>

Where:

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

<PCE-initiated-lsp-list> ::= <PCE-initiated-lsp-request>
                             [<PCE-initiated-lsp-list>]

<PCE-initiated-lsp-request> ::= (<PCE-initiated-lsp-instantiation>|
                                <PCE-initiated-lsp-deletion>)

<PCE-initiated-lsp-instantiation> ::= <SRP>
                                      <LSP>
                                      [<END-POINTS>]
                                      <ERO>
                                      [<association-list>]
                                      [<attribute-list>]

Where:

<association-list> ::= <ASSOCIATION> [<association-list>]

6.3.2.  Request Message

In the case of a passive (stateful or stateless) PCE, the ASSOCIATION object is
be carried in the PCReq message.

OPTIONAL

 and

MAY

When carried in a PCReq message, the ASSOCIATION object is used to associate the path
computation request to an association group. The association (and the other LSPs) should be
known to the PCE beforehand. These could be operator conﬁgured or dynamically learned
beforehand via stateful PCEP messages. The R ﬂag in the ASSOCIATION object within a PCReq
message

 be set to 0 while sending and ignored on receipt.

MUST

The PCReq message is deﬁned in
below for association groups:

[RFC5440]

 and updated in

[RFC8231]

. It is further updated

<PCReq Message>::= <Common Header>
                   [<svec-list>]
                   <request-list>

Where:

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

   <svec-list>::= <SVEC>[<svec-list>]
   <request-list>::= <request>[<request-list>]

   <request>::= <RP>
                <END-POINTS>
                [<LSP>]
                [<LSPA>]
                [<BANDWIDTH>]
                [<metric-list>]
                [<association-list>]
                [<RRO>[<BANDWIDTH>]]
                [<IRO>]
                [<LOAD-BALANCING>]

Where:

   <association-list> ::= <ASSOCIATION> [<association-list>]

Note that the LSP object

MAY

 be present for the passive stateful PCE mode.

6.3.3.  Reply Message

In the case of a passive (stateful or stateless) PCE, the ASSOCIATION object is
MAY
be carried in the PCRep message with the NO-PATH object. The ASSOCIATION object in the PCRep
message indicates the association group that caused the PCE to fail to ﬁnd a path.

OPTIONAL

 and

The PCRep message is deﬁned in
below for association groups:

[RFC5440]

 and updated in

[RFC8231]

. It is further updated

<PCRep Message> ::= <Common Header>
                    <response-list>

Where:

   <response-list>::=<response>[<response-list>]

   <response>::=<RP>
                [<LSP>]
                [<NO-PATH>]
                [<association-list>]
                [<attribute-list>]
                [<path-list>]

Where:

   <association-list> ::= <ASSOCIATION> [<association-list>]

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

Note that the LSP object

MAY

 be present for the passive stateful PCE mode.

6.4.  Processing Rules

Association groups can be operator conﬁgured on the necessary PCEP speakers, and the PCEP
speakers can join the existing association groups. In addition, a PCC or a PCE can create
association groups dynamically, and the PCEP speaker can also report the associations to its peer
via PCEP messages. The Operator-conﬁgured Associations are created via conﬁgurations (where
all association parameters are manually set) and exist until explicitly removed via
conﬁgurations. The PCEP speaker can add LSPs to these conﬁgured associations and provide this
information via stateful PCEP messages. The dynamic associations are created dynamically by
the PCEP speaker (where all association parameters are populated dynamically). The association
group is attached to the LSP state, and the association group exists until there is at least one LSP
as part of the association. As described in Section 6.1.4, the association parameters are the
combination of Association Type, Association ID, and Association Source, as well as the optional
Global Association Source and Extended Association ID TLVs; this combination uniquely
identiﬁes an association group. The information related to the Association Types encoded via the
TLVs of a particular Association Type (not described in this document) is the association
information (Section 6.1.4).

. In the case

[RFC5440]

[RFC5440]

If a PCEP speaker does not recognize the ASSOCIATION object in the stateful message, it will
return a PCErr message with Error-Type "Unknown Object" as described in
of a PCReq message, the PCE would react based on the P ﬂag as per
 return a
understands the ASSOCIATION object but does not support the Association Type, it
PCErr message with Error-Type 26 "Association Error" and Error-value 1 "Association Type is not
supported". If any association parameters are invalid in the ASSOCIATION object, the PCEP
.
speaker would consider this object malformed and process it as a malformed message
[RFC5440]
On receiving a PCEP message with an ASSOCIATION object, if a PCEP speaker ﬁnds that too many
LSPs belong to the association group, it
 return a PCErr message with Error-Type 26
"Association Error" and Error-value 2 "Too many LSPs in the association group". If a PCEP
speaker cannot handle a new association, it
"Association Error" and Error-value 3 "Too many association groups". These numbers
by the operator or chosen based on a local policy.

 return a PCErr message with Error-Type 26

. If a PCEP speaker
MUST

 be set

MUST

MUST

MAY

If a PCE peer is unwilling or unable to process the ASSOCIATION object in the stateful message, it
 return a PCErr message with the Error-Type "Not supported object" and follow the relevant
MUST
procedures described in
on the P ﬂag as per
PCEP speaker could not add the LSP to the association group for any reason, it
PCErr message with Error-Type 26 "Association Error" and Error-value 7 "Cannot join the
association group".

. In the case of a PCReq message, the PCE would react based
. On receiving a PCEP message with an ASSOCIATION object, if a
 return a

[RFC5440]

[RFC5440]

MUST

If a PCEP speaker receives an ASSOCIATION object for an Operator-conﬁgured Association and
the Association ID is not in the Operator-conﬁgured Association Range for the Association Type
and Association Source, it
 return a PCErr message with Error-Type 26 "Association Error"
and Error-value 8 "Association ID not in range".

MUST

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

If a PCEP speaker receives an ASSOCIATION object in a PCReq message and the association is not
known (the association is not conﬁgured, was not created dynamically, or was not learned from a
PCEP peer), it
MUST
value 4 "Association unknown".

 return a PCErr message with Error-Type 26 "Association Error" and Error-

If the association information (related to the association group as a whole) received from the
peer does not match the local operator-conﬁgured information, it
with Error-Type 26 "Association Error" and Error-value 5 "Operator-conﬁgured association
information mismatch". On receiving association information (related to the association group as
a whole) that does not match the association information previously received about the same
association from a peer, it
and Error-value 6 "Association information mismatch". Note that information related to each LSP
within the association as part of the association information TLVs could be diﬀerent.

 return a PCErr message with Error-Type 26 "Association Error"

 return a PCErr message

MUST

MUST

If a PCEP speaker receives an ASSOCIATION object with the R bit set for removal and the
association group (identiﬁed by association parameters) is not known, it
message with Error-Type 26 "Association Error" and Error-value 4 "Association unknown".

MUST

 return a PCErr

The dynamic associations are cleared along with the LSP state information as per
When a PCEP session is terminated, after expiry of the State Timeout Interval at the PCC, the LSP
state associated with that PCEP session is reverted to operator-deﬁned default parameters or
behaviors. The same procedure is also followed for the association groups. On session
termination at the PCE, when the LSP state reported by the PCC is cleared, the association groups
are also cleared. When there are no LSPs in an association group, the association is considered
empty and thus deleted.

[RFC8231]

.

If the LSP is delegated to another PCE on session failure, the associations (and association
information) set by the PCE remain intact, unless updated by the new PCE that takes over.

Upon LSP delegation revocation, the PCC
order to avoid traﬃc loss, it
).
as

[RFC8231]

SHOULD

MAY

 clear the association created by the PCE, but in

 perform this action in a make-before-break fashion (same

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA maintains the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry at
www.iana.org/assignments/pcep>
.

<https://

7.1.  PCEP Object

The "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry contains a subregistry called
"PCEP Objects". IANA has allocated the following code point in the "PCEP Objects" registry.

Object-Class Value Name

Object-Type

Reference

40

ASSOCIATION 0: Reserved

RFC 8697

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

Object-Class Value Name

Object-Type

Reference

1: IPv4

RFC 8697

2: IPv6

RFC 8697

Table 1: PCEP Object

7.2.  PCEP TLV

IANA has allocated the following code points in the "PCEP TLV Type Indicators" registry.

Value Meaning

Reference

29

30

31

Operator-conﬁgured Association Range

RFC 8697

Global Association Source

Extended Association ID

RFC 8697

RFC 8697

Table 2: PCEP TLV Type Indicators

IANA has corrected the capitalization in the meaning for value 31 in the above registry to
"Extended Association ID"; it was previously listed as "Extended Association Id".

IANA has made a new assignment in the existing "PCEP TLV Type Indicators" registry as follows:

Value Meaning

Reference

35

ASSOC-Type-List

RFC 8697

Table 3: ASSOC-Type-List PCEP TLV Type
Indicator

7.3.  Association Flags

Per this document, IANA has created a subregistry of the "Path Computation Element Protocol
(PCEP) Numbers" registry for the bits carried in the Flags ﬁeld of the ASSOCIATION object. The
subregistry is called "ASSOCIATION Flag Field". New values are assigned by Standards Action
[RFC8126]

. Each bit is tracked with the following qualities:

•

Bit number (counting from bit 0 as the most signiﬁcant bit)

•

Capability description

•

Deﬁning RFC

Bit

Description

Reference

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

Bit

15

Description

Reference

R (Removal)

RFC 8697

Table 4: New ASSOCIATION Flag Field

7.4.  Association Type

Per this document, IANA has created a subregistry of the "Path Computation Element Protocol
(PCEP) Numbers" registry for the Association Type ﬁeld of the ASSOCIATION object. The
subregistry is called "ASSOCIATION Type Field". New values are assigned by Standards Action
[RFC8126]

. Each value is tracked with the following qualities:

•

Type

•

Name

•

Reference

Type

Name

Reference

0

Reserved

RFC 8697

Table 5: New ASSOCIATION Type Field

Values 2-65535 are Unassigned. Future documents should request the assignment of Association
Types from this subregistry.

7.5.  PCEP-Error Object

IANA has allocated the following code points within the "PCEP-ERROR Object Error Types and
Values" subregistry of the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry as
follows:

Error-
Type

26

Meaning

Error-value

Association
Error

0: Unassigned

1: Association Type is not supported

Reference

RFC 8697

RFC 8697

2: Too many LSPs in the association group

RFC 8697

3: Too many association groups

4: Association unknown

5: Operator-conﬁgured association
information mismatch

RFC 8697

RFC 8697

RFC 8697

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

Error-
Type

Meaning

Error-value

Reference

6: Association information mismatch

7: Cannot join the association group

8: Association ID not in range

RFC 8697

RFC 8697

RFC 8697

Table 6: PCEP-ERROR Types and Names

8.  Security Considerations

 and

[RFC8231]

[RFC5440]

The security considerations described in
 apply to the extensions
described in this document as well. Additional considerations related to a malicious PCEP
speaker are introduced, as associations could be spoofed and could be used as an attack vector.
An attacker could attempt to create too many associations in an attempt to load the PCEP peer.
The PCEP peer responds with a PCErr message as described in Section 6.4. An attacker could
impact LSP operations by creating bogus associations. Further, association groups could provide
an adversary with the opportunity to eavesdrop on the relationship between the LSPs. Thus,
securing the PCEP session using Transport Layer Security (TLS)
recommendations and best current practices in

[RFC8253]
RECOMMENDED

, as per the

[RFC7525]

, is

.

Much of the information carried in the ASSOCIATION object as per this document is not extra
sensitive. It often reﬂects information that can also be derived from the LSP database, but the
association provides a much easier grouping of related LSPs and messages. Implementations and
operators can, and should, use indirect values in the ASSOCIATION object as a way to hide any
sensitive business relationships.

9.  Manageability Considerations

All manageability requirements and considerations listed in
PCEP protocol extensions deﬁned in this document. In addition, requirements and considerations
listed in this section apply.

[RFC8231]

[RFC5440]

 apply to

 and

9.1.  Control of Function and Policy

A PCE or PCC implementation
SHOULD
the setting of the Operator-conﬁgured Association Range (Section 3.4) as described in this
document.

 allow Operator-conﬁgured Associations and

MUST

 allow

9.2.  Information and Data Models

The PCEP YANG module is deﬁned in
. In the future, this YANG module should be
extended or augmented to provide the following additional information related to association
groups.

[PCEP-YANG]

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

An implementation
dynamically. Future implementations
each peer and the current set of LSPs in the association.

SHOULD

SHOULD

 allow the operator to view the associations conﬁgured or created

 allow the viewing of associations reported by

It might also be useful to ﬁnd out how many associations for each Association Type currently
exist and to know how many free Association IDs are available for a particular Association Type
and source.

9.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new liveness detection and monitoring
requirements in addition to those already listed in

[RFC5440]
.

9.4.  Verifying Correct Operation

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new operation veriﬁcation requirements
 and
in addition to those already listed in

.
[RFC8231]

[RFC5440]

9.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

Mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new requirements on other protocols.

9.6.  Impact on Network Operations

Mechanisms deﬁned in
document.

[RFC5440]

 and

[RFC8231]

 also apply to PCEP extensions deﬁned in this

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Vasseur, JP., Ed. and JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)
,
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

,

.

, March 2009,

,

Farrel, A. "Routing Backus-Naur Form (RBNF): A Syntax Used to Form Encoding
Rules in Various Routing Protocol Speciﬁcations" RFC 5511 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5511

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5511>

, April 2009,

,

,

.

,
Berger, L., Le Faucheur, F., and A. Narayanan "RSVP ASSOCIATION Object
, October 2012,
,
,
Extensions" RFC 6780 DOI 10.17487/RFC6780
editor.org/info/rfc6780>

.

<https://www.rfc-

[RFC2119]

[RFC5440]

[RFC5511]

[RFC6780]

[RFC7525]

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

Sheﬀer, Y., Holz, R., and P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

,

,

.

,

Zhang, X., Ed. and I. Minei, Ed. "Applicability of a Stateful Path Computation
Element (PCE)" RFC 8051 DOI 10.17487/RFC8051
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8051>

, January 2017,

<https://

,

,

.

Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Crabbe, E., Minei, I., Medved, J., and R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

,

,

,

.

Crabbe, E., Minei, I., Sivabalan, S., and R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

,

,

.

,

<https://

[RFC8051]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8281]

10.2.  Informative References

Ash, J., Ed. and J.L. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)
Communication Protocol Generic Requirements" RFC 4657 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4657

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4657>

, September 2006,

,

,

.

,

Lang, J.P., Ed., Rekhter, Y., Ed., and D. Papadimitriou, Ed. "RSVP-TE Extensions in
Support of End-to-End Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)
,
Recovery" RFC 4872 DOI 10.17487/RFC4872
editor.org/info/rfc4872>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2007,

,

.

,

Berger, L., Bryskin, I., Papadimitriou, D., and A. Farrel "GMPLS Segment
,
Recovery" RFC 4873 DOI 10.17487/RFC4873
<https://www.rfc-
editor.org/info/rfc4873>

,
, May 2007,

,

.

Nishioka, I. and D. King "Use of the Synchronization VECtor (SVEC) List for
Synchronized Dependent Path Computations" RFC 6007 DOI 10.17487/RFC6007
September 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6007>

,

,

.

,

,

Zhang, F., Ed., Jing, R., and R. Gandhi, Ed. "RSVP-TE Extensions for Associated
,
Bidirectional Label Switched Paths (LSPs)" RFC 7551 DOI 10.17487/RFC7551
May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7551>

,
.

,

,

[RFC4657]

[RFC4872]

[RFC4873]

[RFC6007]

[RFC7551]

[RFC8253]

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

Lopez, D., Gonzalez de Dios, O., Wu, Q., and D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

, October 2017,

<https://

,

,

.

[PCEP-YANG]

Dhody, D., Ed., Hardwick, J., Beeram, V., and J. Tantsura "A YANG Data Model for
Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in Progress
,
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-13
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-13>

, 31 October 2019,

<https://

,

,

.

[PCE-PROTECTION]

Ananthakrishnan, H., Sivabalan, S., Barth, C., Minei, I., and M. Negi "PCEP

,

Extensions for Associating Working and Protection LSPs with Stateful PCE"
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-stateful-path-protection-11
September 2019,
protection-11>

,
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-pce-stateful-path-

.

,
, 25

[PCE-DIVERSITY]

Litkowski, S., Sivabalan, S., Barth, C., and M. Negi "Path Computation

,

Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extension for LSP Diversity Constraint
,
Signaling" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-association-
diversity-14
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-pce-
association-diversity-14>

,
, 26 January 2020,

.

Appendix A.  Example of an Operator-Conﬁgured Association
Range

Consider an Association Type T1 (which allows both dynamic and Operator-conﬁgured
Associations with a default range of <0x1000, 0xﬀﬀ>). Consider that, because of the needs of the
network, the PCE needs to create more dynamic associations and would like to change the
Association Range to <0xbﬀe, 0xﬀﬀ> instead. During PCEP session establishment, the PCE would
advertise the new range. The PCC could skip advertising, as the default values are used. If a PCC
is creating a dynamic association (with the PCC as the Association Source), it needs to pick a free
Association ID for type T1 in the range <0x1, 0x0ﬀf>, whereas if a PCE is creating a dynamic
association (with the PCE as the Association Source), it needs to pick a free Association ID from
the range <0x1, 0xbﬀd>. Similarly, if an Operator-conﬁgured Association is manually conﬁgured
with the PCC as the Association Source, it should be from the range <0x1000, 0xﬀﬀ>, whereas if
the PCE is the Association Source, it should be from the range <0xbﬀe, 0xﬀﬀ>. If the Association
Source is not a PCEP peer (for example, an NMS), then the default range of <0x1000, 0xﬀﬀ> is
considered.

Acknowledgments

We would like to thank
Thanks also to
Farrel

,
 for their useful comments.

Joshua George
Venugopal Reddy Cyril Margaria Rakesh Gandhi Mike Koldychev
,

Yuji Kamite

 for their contributions to this document.

, and

Adrian

 and

,

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

We would like to thank
with text suggestions.

Julien Meuric

 for shepherding this document and providing comments

Thanks to

Stig Venaas

 for the RTGDIR review comments.

Thanks to
Krishnan

, and

Benjamin Kaduk

,
 for the IESG comments.

Alvaro Retana Mirja Kühlewind Martin Vigoureux Barry Leiba Eric Vyncke Suresh

,

,

,

,

Contributors

Stephane Litkowski
Orange
Email:

 stephane.litkowski@orange.com

Xian Zhang
Huawei Technologies
F3-1-B RnD Center, Huawei Base
Bantian, Longgang District
Shenzhen 518129
China
Email:

 zhang.xian@huawei.com

,

Mustapha Aissaoui
Nokia
Email:

 mustapha.aissaoui@nokia.com

Authors' Addresses

Ina Minei
Google, Inc.
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

 inaminei@google.com

,

Edward Crabbe
Individual Contributor
Email:

 edward.crabbe@gmail.com

Siva Sivabalan
Cisco Systems, Inc.
170 West Tasman Dr.
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
 msiva@cisco.com
Email:

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8697

PCE Association Group

January 2020

Hariharan Ananthakrishnan
Netﬂix
Email:

 hari@netﬂix.com

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei
Divyashree Techno Park, Whiteﬁeld
Bangalore 560066
KA
India
Email:

 dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

Yosuke Tanaka
NTT Communications Corporation
Granpark Tower 3-4-1 Shibaura, Minato-ku Tokyo
108-8118
Japan
Email:

 yosuke.tanaka@ntt.com

,

Minei, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

