Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:
A. Ford
Pexip

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8684
6824
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721

C. Raiciu
U. Politehnica of Bucharest

M. Handley
U. College London

O. Bonaventure
U. catholique de Louvain

C. Paasch
Apple, Inc.

RFC 8684
TCP Extensions for Multipath Operation with
Multiple Addresses

Abstract

TCP/IP communication is currently restricted to a single path per connection, yet multiple paths
often exist between peers. The simultaneous use of these multiple paths for a TCP/IP session
would improve resource usage within the network and thus improve user experience through
higher throughput and improved resilience to network failure.

Multipath TCP provides the ability to simultaneously use multiple paths between peers. This
document presents a set of extensions to traditional TCP to support multipath operation. The
protocol oﬀers the same type of service to applications as TCP (i.e., a reliable bytestream), and it
provides the components necessary to establish and use multiple TCP ﬂows across potentially
disjoint paths.

This document speciﬁes v1 of Multipath TCP, obsoleting v0 as speciﬁed in RFC 6824, through
clariﬁcations and modiﬁcations primarily driven by deployment experience.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8684

.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Design Assumptions

1.2.  Multipath TCP in the Networking Stack

1.3.  Terminology

1.4.  MPTCP Concept

1.5.  Requirements Language

2.  Operation Overview

2.1.  Initiating an MPTCP Connection

2.2.  Associating a New Subﬂow with an Existing MPTCP Connection

2.3.  Informing the Other Host about Another Potential Address

2.4.  Data Transfer Using MPTCP

2.5.  Requesting a Change in a Path's Priority

2.6.  Closing an MPTCP Connection

2.7.  Notable Features

3.  MPTCP Operations: An Overview

3.1.  Connection Initiation

3.2.  Starting a New Subﬂow

3.3.  MPTCP Operation and Data Transfer

3.3.1.  Data Sequence Mapping

3.3.2.  Data Acknowledgments

3.3.3.  Closing a Connection

3.3.4.  Receiver Considerations

3.3.5.  Sender Considerations

3.3.6.  Reliability and Retransmissions

3.3.7.  Congestion Control Considerations

3.3.8.  Subﬂow Policy

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

3.4.  Address Knowledge Exchange (Path Management)

3.4.1.  Address Advertisement

3.4.2.  Remove Address

3.5.  Fast Close

3.6.  Subﬂow Reset

3.7.  Fallback

3.8.  Error Handling

3.9.  Heuristics

3.9.1.  Port Usage

3.9.2.  Delayed Subﬂow Start and Subﬂow Symmetry

3.9.3.  Failure Handling

4.  Semantic Issues

5.  Security Considerations

6.  Interactions with Middleboxes

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  TCP Option Kind Numbers

7.2.  MPTCP Option Subtypes

7.3.  MPTCP Handshake Algorithms

7.4.  MP_TCPRST Reason Codes

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Notes on Use of TCP Options

Appendix B.  TCP Fast Open and MPTCP

B.1.  TFO Cookie Request with MPTCP

B.2.  Data Sequence Mapping under TFO

B.3.  Connection Establishment Examples

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Appendix C.  Control Blocks

C.1.  MPTCP Control Block

C.1.1.  Authentication and Metadata

C.1.2.  Sending Side

C.1.3.  Receiving Side

C.2.  TCP Control Blocks

C.2.1.  Sending Side

C.2.2.  Receiving Side

Appendix D.  Finite State Machine

Appendix E.  Changes from RFC 6824

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC6182]

, which enables a transport connection to operate across multiple paths

Multipath TCP (MPTCP) is a set of extensions to regular TCP
service
simultaneously. This document presents the protocol changes required to add multipath
capability to TCP -- speciﬁcally, those for signaling and setting up multiple paths ("subﬂows"),
managing these subﬂows, reassembly of data, and termination of sessions. This is not the only
information required to create a Multipath TCP implementation, however. This document is
complemented by three others:

[RFC0793]

 to provide a Multipath TCP

• [RFC6182]

 (MPTCP architecture), which explains the motivations behind Multipath TCP,

contains a discussion of high-level design decisions on which this design is based, and
provides an explanation of a functional separation through which an extensible MPTCP
implementation can be developed.

• [RFC6356]

 (congestion control), which presents a safe congestion control algorithm for

coupling the behavior of the multiple paths in order to "do no harm" to other network users.

• [RFC6897]

 (application considerations), which discusses what impact MPTCP will have on
applications, what applications will want to do with MPTCP, and as a consequence of these
factors, what API extensions an MPTCP implementation should present.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

This document obsoletes the v0 speciﬁcation of Multipath TCP
speciﬁes MPTCP v1, which is not backward compatible with MPTCP v0. This document
additionally deﬁnes version negotiation procedures for implementations that support both
versions.

. This document

[RFC6824]

1.1.  Design Assumptions

In order to limit the potentially huge design space, the MPTCP Working Group imposed two key
constraints on the Multipath TCP design presented in this document:

•

It must be backward compatible with current, regular TCP, to increase its chances of
deployment.

•

It can be assumed that one or both hosts are multihomed and multiaddressed.

To simplify the design, we assume that the presence of multiple addresses at a host is suﬃcient to
indicate the existence of multiple paths. These paths need not be entirely disjoint: they may
share one or many routers between them. Even in such a situation, making use of multiple paths
is beneﬁcial, improving resource utilization and resilience to a subset of node failures. The
[RFC6356]
congestion control algorithm deﬁned in
not act detrimentally. Furthermore, there may be some scenarios where diﬀerent TCP ports on a
single host can provide disjoint paths (such as through certain Equal-Cost Multipath (ECMP)
implementations
), and so the MPTCP design also supports the use of ports in path
identiﬁers.

 ensures that the use of multiple paths does

[RFC2992]

There are three aspects to the backward compatibility listed above (discussed in more detail in
[RFC6182]

):

External Constraints:

The protocol must function through the vast majority of existing

middleboxes such as NATs, ﬁrewalls, and proxies, and as such must resemble existing TCP as
far as possible on the wire. Furthermore, the protocol must not assume that the segments it
sends on the wire arrive unmodiﬁed at the destination: they may be split or coalesced; TCP
options may be removed or duplicated.

Application Constraints:

The protocol must be usable with no change to existing applications

that use the common TCP API (although it is reasonable that not all features would be
available to such legacy applications). Furthermore, the protocol must provide the same
service model as regular TCP to the application.

Fallback:

The protocol should be able to fall back to standard TCP with no interference from the

user, to be able to communicate with legacy hosts.

The complementary application considerations document
 discusses the necessary
features of an API to provide backward compatibility, as well as API extensions to convey the
behavior of MPTCP at a level of control and information equivalent to that available with
regular, single-path TCP.

[RFC6897]

Further discussion of the design constraints and associated design decisions is given in the
 and in
MPTCP architecture document

.
[howhard]

[RFC6182]

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

1.2.  Multipath TCP in the Networking Stack

MPTCP operates at the transport layer and aims to be transparent to both higher and lower
layers. It is a set of additional features on top of standard TCP; Figure 1 illustrates this layering.
MPTCP is designed to be usable by legacy applications with no changes; detailed discussion of its
interactions with applications is given in

[RFC6897]

.

                                +-------------------------------+
                                |           Application         |
   +---------------+            +-------------------------------+
   |  Application  |            |             MPTCP             |
   +---------------+            + - - - - - - - + - - - - - - - +
   |      TCP      |            | Subflow (TCP) | Subflow (TCP) |
   +---------------+            +-------------------------------+
   |      IP       |            |       IP      |      IP       |
   +---------------+            +-------------------------------+

Figure 1: Comparison of Standard TCP and MPTCP Protocol Stacks

1.3.  Terminology

This document makes use of a number of terms that are either MPTCP speciﬁc or have deﬁned
meaning in the context of MPTCP, as follows:

Path:

A sequence of links between a sender and a receiver, deﬁned in this context by a 4-tuple

of source and destination address /port pairs.

Subﬂow:

A ﬂow of TCP segments operating over an individual path, which forms part of a
larger MPTCP connection. A subﬂow is started and terminated similarly to a regular TCP
connection.

(MPTCP) Connection:

A set of one or more subﬂows, over which an application can

communicate between two hosts. There is a one‑to‑one mapping between a connection and an
application socket.

Data-level:

The payload data is nominally transferred over a connection, which in turn is

transported over subﬂows. Thus, the term "data-level" is synonymous with "connection-level",
in contrast to "subﬂow-level", which refers to properties of an individual subﬂow.

Token:

A locally unique identiﬁer given to a multipath connection by a host. May also be

referred to as a "Connection ID".

Host:

An end host operating an MPTCP implementation, and either initiating or accepting an

MPTCP connection.

In addition to these terms, note that MPTCP's interpretation of, and eﬀect on, regular single-path
TCP semantics are discussed in Section 4.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

1.4.  MPTCP Concept

This section provides a high-level summary of normal operation of MPTCP; this type of scenario
is illustrated in Figure 2. A detailed description of how MPTCP operates is given in Section 3.

            Host A                               Host B
   ------------------------             ------------------------
   Address A1    Address A2             Address B1    Address B2
   ----------    ----------             ----------    ----------
       |             |                      |             |
       |     (initial connection setup)     |             |
       |----------------------------------->|             |
       |<-----------------------------------|             |
       |             |                      |             |
       |            (additional subflow setup)            |
       |             |--------------------->|             |
       |             |<---------------------|             |
       |             |                      |             |
       |             |                      |             |

Figure 2: Example MPTCP Usage Scenario

•

To a non-MPTCP-aware application, MPTCP will behave the same as normal TCP. Extended
APIs could provide additional control to MPTCP-aware applications
application begins by opening a TCP socket in the normal way. MPTCP signaling and
operation are handled by the MPTCP implementation.

[RFC6897]

. An

•

An MPTCP connection begins similarly to a regular TCP connection. This is illustrated in
Figure 2, where an MPTCP connection is established between addresses A1 and B1 on Hosts
A and B, respectively.

•

If extra paths are available, additional TCP sessions (termed MPTCP "subﬂows") are created
on these paths and are combined with the existing session, which continues to appear as a
single connection to the applications at both ends. The creation of the additional TCP session
is illustrated between Address A2 on Host A and Address B1 on Host B.

•

MPTCP identiﬁes multiple paths by the presence of multiple addresses at hosts.
Combinations of these multiple addresses equate to the additional paths. In the example,
other potential paths that could be set up are A1<->B2 and A2<->B2. Although this additional
session is shown as being initiated from A2, it could equally have been initiated from B1 or
B2.

•

The discovery and setup of additional subﬂows will be achieved through a path management
method; this document describes a mechanism by which a host can initiate new subﬂows by
using its own additional addresses or by signaling its available addresses to the other host.

•

MPTCP adds connection-level sequence numbers to allow the reassembly of segments
arriving on multiple subﬂows with diﬀering network delays.

•

Subﬂows are terminated as regular TCP connections, with a four‑way FIN handshake. The
MPTCP connection is terminated by a connection-level FIN.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

1.5.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Operation Overview

This section presents a single description of common MPTCP operation, with reference to the
protocol operation. This is a high-level overview of the key functions; the full speciﬁcation
follows in Section 3. Extensibility and negotiated features are not discussed here. Considerable
reference is made to symbolic names of MPTCP options throughout this section -- these are
subtypes of the IANA‑assigned MPTCP option (see Section 7), and their formats are deﬁned in the
detailed protocol speciﬁcation provided in Section 3.

A Multipath TCP connection provides a bidirectional bytestream between two hosts
communicating like normal TCP and thus does not require any change to the applications.
However, Multipath TCP enables the hosts to use diﬀerent paths with diﬀerent IP addresses to
exchange packets belonging to the MPTCP connection. A Multipath TCP connection appears like a
normal TCP connection to an application. However, to the network layer, each MPTCP subﬂow
looks like a regular TCP ﬂow whose segments carry a new TCP option type. Multipath TCP
manages the creation, removal, and utilization of these subﬂows to send data. The number of
subﬂows that are managed within a Multipath TCP connection is not ﬁxed, and it can ﬂuctuate
during the lifetime of the Multipath TCP connection.

All MPTCP operations are signaled with a TCP option -- a single numerical type for MPTCP, with
"subtypes" for each MPTCP message. What follows is a summary of the purpose and rationale of
these messages.

2.1.  Initiating an MPTCP Connection

This is the same signaling as for initiating a normal TCP connection, but the SYN, SYN/ACK, and
initial ACK (and data) packets also carry the MP_CAPABLE option. This option has a variable
length and serves multiple purposes. Firstly, it veriﬁes whether the remote host supports
Multipath TCP; secondly, this option allows the hosts to exchange some information to
authenticate the establishment of additional subﬂows. Further details are given in Section 3.1.

   Host A                                  Host B
   ------                                  ------
   MP_CAPABLE                ->
   [flags]
                             <-            MP_CAPABLE
                                           [B's key, flags]
   ACK + MP_CAPABLE (+ data) ->
   [A's key, B's key, flags, (data-level details)]

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Retransmission of the ACK + MP_CAPABLE can occur if it is not known if it has been received.
The following diagrams show all possible exchanges for the initial subﬂow setup to ensure this
reliability.

   Host A (with data to send immediately)  Host B
   ------                                  ------
   MP_CAPABLE                ->
   [flags]
                             <-            MP_CAPABLE
                                           [B's key, flags]
   ACK + MP_CAPABLE + data   ->
   [A's key, B's key, flags, data-level details]

   Host A (with data to send later)        Host B
   ------                                  ------
   MP_CAPABLE                ->
   [flags]
                             <-            MP_CAPABLE
                                           [B's key, flags]
   ACK + MP_CAPABLE          ->
   [A's key, B's key, flags]

   ACK + MP_CAPABLE + data   ->
   [A's key, B's key, flags, data-level details]

   Host A                                  Host B (sending first)
   ------                                  ------
   MP_CAPABLE                ->
   [flags]
                             <-            MP_CAPABLE
                                           [B's key, flags]
   ACK + MP_CAPABLE          ->
   [A's key, B's key, flags]

                             <-            ACK + DSS + data
                                           [data-level details]

2.2.  Associating a New Subﬂow with an Existing MPTCP Connection

The exchange of keys in the MP_CAPABLE handshake provides material that can be used to
authenticate the endpoints when new subﬂows will be set up. Additional subﬂows begin in the
same way as initiating a normal TCP connection, but the SYN, SYN/ACK, and ACK packets also
carry the MP_JOIN option.

Host A initiates a new subﬂow between one of its addresses and one of Host B's addresses. The
token -- generated from the key -- is used to identify which MPTCP connection it is joining, and
the Hash‑based Message Authentication Code (HMAC) is used for authentication. The HMAC uses
the keys exchanged in the MP_CAPABLE handshake and the random numbers (nonces)
exchanged in these MP_JOIN options. MP_JOIN also contains ﬂags and an Address ID that can be
used to refer to the source address without the sender needing to know if it has been changed by
a NAT. Further details are given in Section 3.2.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

   Host A                                  Host B
   ------                                  ------
   MP_JOIN               ->
   [B's token, A's nonce,
    A's Address ID, flags]
                         <-                MP_JOIN
                                           [B's HMAC, B's nonce,
                                            B's Address ID, flags]
   ACK + MP_JOIN         ->
   [A's HMAC]

                         <-                ACK

2.3.  Informing the Other Host about Another Potential Address

The set of IP addresses associated to a multihomed host may change during the lifetime of an
MPTCP connection. MPTCP supports the addition and removal of addresses on a host both
implicitly and explicitly. If Host A has established a subﬂow starting at address /port pair IP#-A1
and wants to open a second subﬂow starting at address /port pair IP#-A2, it simply initiates the
establishment of the subﬂow as explained above. The remote host will then be implicitly
informed about the new address.

In some circumstances, a host may want to advertise to the remote host the availability of an
address without establishing a new subﬂow -- for example, when a NAT prevents setup in one
direction. In the example below, Host A informs Host B about its alternative IP address /port pair
(IP#-A2). Host B may later send an MP_JOIN to this new address. The ADD_ADDR option contains
an HMAC to authenticate the address as having been sent from the originator of the connection.
The receiver of this option echoes it back to the client to indicate successful receipt. Further
details are given in Section 3.4.1.

   Host A                                 Host B
   ------                                 ------
   ADD_ADDR                  ->
   [Echo-flag=0,
    IP#-A2,
    IP#-A2's Address ID,
    HMAC of IP#-A2]

                             <-          ADD_ADDR
                                         [Echo-flag=1,
                                          IP#-A2,
                                          IP#-A2's Address ID,
                                          HMAC of IP#-A2]

There is a corresponding signal for address removal, making use of the Address ID that is
signaled in the ADD_ADDR handshake. Further details are given in Section 3.4.2.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

   Host A                                 Host B
   ------                                 ------
   REMOVE_ADDR               ->
   [IP#-A2's Address ID]

2.4.  Data Transfer Using MPTCP

To ensure reliable, in-order delivery of data over subﬂows that may appear and disappear at any
time, MPTCP uses a 64-bit Data Sequence Number (DSN) to number all data sent over the MPTCP
connection. Each subﬂow has its own 32-bit sequence number space, utilizing the regular TCP
sequence number header, and an MPTCP option maps the subﬂow sequence space to the data
sequence space. In this way, data can be retransmitted on diﬀerent subﬂows (mapped to the
same DSN) in the event of failure.

The Data Sequence Signal (DSS) carries the Data Sequence Mapping. The Data Sequence Mapping
consists of the subﬂow sequence number, data sequence number, and length for which this
mapping is valid. This option can also carry a connection-level acknowledgment (the "Data ACK")
for the received DSN.

With MPTCP, all subﬂows share the same receive buﬀer and advertise the same receive window.
There are two levels of acknowledgment in MPTCP. Regular TCP acknowledgments are used on
each subﬂow to acknowledge the reception of the segments sent over the subﬂow independently
of their DSN. In addition, there are connection-level acknowledgments for the data sequence
space. These acknowledgments track the advancement of the bytestream and slide the receive
window.

Further details are given in Section 3.3.

   Host A                                 Host B
   ------                                 ------
   DSS                       ->
   [Data Sequence Mapping]
   [Data ACK]
   [Checksum]

2.5.  Requesting a Change in a Path's Priority

Hosts can indicate at initial subﬂow setup whether they wish the subﬂow to be used as a regular
or backup path -- a backup path only being used if there are no regular paths available. During a
connection, Host A can request a change in the priority of a subﬂow through the MP_PRIO signal
to Host B. Further details are given in Section 3.3.8.

   Host A                                 Host B
   ------                                 ------
   MP_PRIO                   ->

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

2.6.  Closing an MPTCP Connection

When a host wants to close an existing subﬂow but not the whole connection, it can initiate a
regular TCP FIN/ACK exchange.

When Host A wants to inform Host B that it has no more data to send, it signals this "Data FIN" as
part of the DSS (see above). It has the same semantics and behavior as a regular TCP FIN, but at
the connection level. Once all the data on the MPTCP connection has been successfully received,
this message is acknowledged at the connection level with a Data ACK. Further details are given
in Section 3.3.3.

   Host A                                 Host B
   ------                                 ------
   DSS                       ->
   [Data FIN]
                             <-           DSS
                                          [Data ACK]

There is an additional method of connection closure, referred to as "Fast Close", which is
analogous to closing a single-path TCP connection with a RST signal. The MP_FASTCLOSE signal is
used to indicate to the peer that the connection will be abruptly closed and no data will be
accepted anymore. This can be used on an ACK (which ensures reliability of the signal) or a RST
(which does not). Both examples are shown in the following diagrams. Further details are given
in Section 3.5.

   Host A                                 Host B
   ------                                 ------
   ACK + MP_FASTCLOSE          ->
   [B's key]

   [RST on all other subflows] ->

                               <-         [RST on all subflows]

   Host A                                 Host B
   ------                                 ------
   RST + MP_FASTCLOSE          ->
   [B's key] [on all subflows]

                               <-         [RST on all subflows]

2.7.  Notable Features

It is worth highlighting that MPTCP's signaling has been designed with several key requirements
in mind:

•

To cope with NATs on the path, addresses are referred to by Address IDs, in case the IP
packet's source address gets changed by a NAT. Setting up a new TCP ﬂow is not possible if

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

the receiver of the SYN is behind a NAT; to allow subﬂows to be created when either end is
behind a NAT, MPTCP uses the ADD_ADDR message.

•

MPTCP falls back to ordinary TCP if MPTCP operation is not possible -- for example, if one
host is not MPTCP capable or if a middlebox alters the payload. This is discussed in Section
3.7.

•

[RFC6181]

 using the algorithm in

To address the threats identiﬁed in
, the following steps are taken: keys are sent in
the clear in the MP_CAPABLE messages; MP_JOIN messages are secured with HMAC-SHA256
) using those keys; and standard TCP validity
(
[RFC2104]
checks are made on the other messages (ensuring that sequence numbers are in‑window
, and those aﬀecting
[RFC5961]
the protocol (i.e., modiﬁcations to ADD_ADDR) have been incorporated in this document.
Further discussion of security can be found in Section 5.

). Residual threats to MPTCP v0 were identiﬁed in

[RFC6234]

[RFC7430]

3.  MPTCP Operations: An Overview

This section describes the operation of MPTCP. The subsections below discuss each key part of the
protocol operation.

All MPTCP operations are signaled using optional TCP header ﬁelds. A single TCP option number
("Kind") has been assigned by IANA for MPTCP (see Section 7), and then individual messages will
be determined by a "subtype", the values of which are also stored in an IANA registry (and are
also listed in Section 7). As with all TCP options, the Length ﬁeld is speciﬁed in bytes and includes
the 2 bytes of Kind and Length.

Throughout this document, when reference is made to an MPTCP option by symbolic name, such
as "MP_CAPABLE", this refers to a TCP option with the single MPTCP option type, and with the
subtype value of the symbolic name as deﬁned in Section 7. This subtype is a 4-bit ﬁeld -- the ﬁrst
4 bits of the option payload, as shown in Figure 3. The MPTCP messages are deﬁned in the
following sections.

                       1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----------------------+
  |     Kind      |    Length     |Subtype|                       |
  +---------------+---------------+-------+                       |
  |                     Subtype-specific data                     |
  |                       (variable length)                       |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 3: MPTCP Option Format

Those MPTCP options associated with subﬂow initiation are used on packets with the SYN ﬂag
set. Additionally, there is one MPTCP option for signaling metadata to ensure that segmented data
can be recombined for delivery to the application.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

The remaining options, however, are signals that do not need to be on a speciﬁc packet, such as
those for signaling additional addresses. While an implementation may desire to send MPTCP
options as soon as possible, it may not be possible to combine all desired options (both those for
MPTCP and for regular TCP, such as SACK (selective acknowledgment)
packet. Therefore, an implementation may choose to send duplicate ACKs containing the
additional signaling information. This changes the semantics of a duplicate ACK; these are
usually only sent as a signal of a lost segment
implementation receiving a duplicate ACK that contains an MPTCP option
signal of congestion. Additionally, an MPTCP implementation
SHOULD NOT
duplicate ACKs in a row for the purposes of sending MPTCP options alone, in order to ensure that
no middleboxes misinterpret this as a sign of congestion.

MUST NOT
 send more than two

 in regular TCP. Therefore, an MPTCP

) on a single

 treat it as a

[RFC2018]

[RFC5681]

Furthermore, standard TCP validity checks (such as ensuring that the sequence number and
acknowledgment number are within the window)
MPTCP signals, as described in
generated according to the recommendations in

, and initial subﬂow sequence numbers

 be undertaken before processing any

[RFC5961]

[RFC6528]

SHOULD

MUST

 be

.

3.1.  Connection Initiation

Connection initiation begins with a SYN, SYN/ACK, ACK exchange on a single path. Each packet
contains the Multipath Capable (MP_CAPABLE) MPTCP option (Figure 4). This option declares its
sender capable of performing Multipath TCP and wishes to do so on this particular connection.

                       1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-------+---------------+
  |     Kind      |    Length     |Subtype|Version|A|B|C|D|E|F|G|H|
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-------+---------------+
  |                   Option Sender's Key (64 bits)               |
  |                      (if option Length > 4)                   |
  |                                                               |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                  Option Receiver's Key (64 bits)              |
  |                      (if option Length > 12)                  |
  |                                                               |
  +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
  |  Data-Level Length (16 bits)  |  Checksum (16 bits, optional) |
  +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+

Figure 4: Multipath Capable (MP_CAPABLE) Option

The MP_CAPABLE exchange in this speciﬁcation (v1) is diﬀerent than that speciﬁed in v0. If a
host supports multiple versions of MPTCP, the sender of the MP_CAPABLE option
the highest version number it supports. In return, in its MP_CAPABLE option, the receiver will
 be equal to or lower than the version
signal the version number it wishes to use, which
number indicated in the initial MP_CAPABLE. There is a caveat, though, with respect to this
version negotiation with old listeners that only support v0. A listener that supports v0 expects
that the MP_CAPABLE option in the SYN segment will include the initiator's key. If, however, the
initiator already upgraded to v1, it won't include the key in the SYN segment. Thus, the listener

SHOULD

 signal

MUST

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

MAY

 choose to immediately fall back to TCP or

will ignore the MP_CAPABLE of this SYN segment and reply with a SYN/ACK that does not include
an MP_CAPABLE. The initiator
attempt a connection using MPTCP v0 (if the initiator supports v0), in order to discover whether
the listener supports the earlier version of MPTCP. In general, an MPTCP v0 connection will likely
be preferred over a TCP connection; however, in a particular deployment scenario, it may be
known that the listener is unlikely to support MPTCP v0 and so the initiator may prefer not to
attempt a v0 connection. An initiator
 cache information for a peer about what version of
MPTCP it supports, if any, and use this information for future connection attempts.

 choose to

MAY

MAY

The MP_CAPABLE option is of variable length, with diﬀerent ﬁelds included, depending on which
packet the option is used on. The full MP_CAPABLE option is shown in Figure 4.

The MP_CAPABLE option is carried on the SYN, SYN/ACK, and ACK packets that start the ﬁrst
subﬂow of an MPTCP connection, as well as the ﬁrst packet that carries data, if the initiator
wishes to send ﬁrst. The data carried by each option is as follows, where A = initiator and B =
listener.

•

SYN (A->B): only the ﬁrst 4 octets (Length = 4).

•

SYN/ACK (B->A): B's key for this connection (Length = 12).

•

ACK (no data) (A->B): A's key followed by B's key (Length = 20).

•

ACK (with ﬁrst data) (A->B): A's key followed by B's key followed by Data-Level Length, and
optional Checksum (Length = 22 or 24).

The contents of the option are determined by the SYN and ACK ﬂags of the packet, along with the
option's Length ﬁeld. In Figure 4, "Sender" and "Receiver" refer to the sender or receiver of the
TCP packet (which can be either host).

The initial SYN, containing just the MP_CAPABLE header, is used to deﬁne the version of MPTCP
being requested and also to exchange ﬂags to negotiate connection features, as described later.

This option is used to declare the 64-bit keys that the end hosts have generated for this MPTCP
connection. These keys are used to authenticate the addition of future subﬂows to this
connection. This is the only time the key will be sent in the clear on the wire (unless "Fast Close"
(Section 3.5) is used); all future subﬂows will identify the connection using a 32-bit "token". This
token is a cryptographic hash of this key. The algorithm for this process is dependent on the
authentication algorithm selected; the method of selection is deﬁned later in this section.

Upon reception of the initial SYN segment, a stateful server generates a random key and replies
with a SYN/ACK. The key's method of generation is implementation speciﬁc. The key
hard to guess, and it
connections. Recommendations for generating random numbers for use in keys are given in
. Connections will be indexed at each host by the token (a one-way hash of the key).
[RFC4086]
Therefore, an implementation will require a mapping from each token to the corresponding
connection, and in turn to the keys for the connection.

 be unique for the sending host across all its current MPTCP

MUST

MUST

 be

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

SHOULD

 check its list of connection tokens to ensure that there is no collision

There is a risk that two diﬀerent keys will hash to the same token. The risk of hash collisions is
usually small, unless the host is handling many tens of thousands of connections. Therefore, an
implementation
before sending its key, and if there is, then it should generate a new key. This would, however, be
costly for a server with thousands of connections. The subﬂow handshake mechanism (Section
3.2) will ensure that new subﬂows only join the correct connection, however, through the
cryptographic handshake, as well as checking the connection tokens in both directions, and
ensuring that sequence numbers are in-window. So, in the worst case, if there was a token
collision, the new subﬂow would not succeed, but the MPTCP connection would continue to
provide a regular TCP service.

Since key generation is implementation speciﬁc, there is no requirement that they simply be
random numbers. An implementation is free to exchange cryptographic material out of band
and generate these keys from this material, in order to provide additional mechanisms by which
to verify the identity of the communicating entities. For example, an implementation could
choose to link its MPTCP keys to those used in higher-layer TLS or SSH connections.

If the server behaves in a stateless manner, it has to generate its own key in a veriﬁable fashion.
This veriﬁable way of generating the key can be done by using a hash of the 4-tuple, sequence
number, and a local secret (similar to what is done for the TCP sequence number
will thus be able to verify whether it is indeed the originator of the key echoed back in the
subsequent MP_CAPABLE option. As for a stateful server, the tokens
uniqueness; however, if uniqueness is not met and there is no way to generate an alternative
veriﬁable key, then the connection
MP_CAPABLE in the SYN /ACK.

 fall back to using regular TCP by not sending an

 be checked for

[RFC4987]

SHOULD

MUST

). It

The ACK carries both A's key and B's key. This is the ﬁrst time that A's key is seen on the wire,
although it is expected that A will have generated a key locally before the initial SYN. The echoing
of B's key allows B to operate statelessly, as described above. Therefore, A's key must be delivered
reliably to B, and in order to do this, the transmission of this packet must be made reliable.

If B has data to send ﬁrst, then the reliable delivery of the ACK + MP_CAPABLE is ensured by the
receipt of this data with an MPTCP Data Sequence Signal (DSS) option (Section 3.3) containing a
DATA_ACK for the MP_CAPABLE (which is the ﬁrst octet of the data sequence space). If, however,
A wishes to send data ﬁrst, it has two options to ensure the reliable delivery of the ACK +
MP_CAPABLE. If it immediately has data to send, then the ﬁrst ACK (with data) would also
contain an MP_CAPABLE option with additional data parameters (the Data-Level Length and
optional Checksum as shown in Figure 4). If A does not immediately have data to send, it
MUST
include the MP_CAPABLE on the ﬁrst ACK, but without the additional data parameters. When A
does have data to send, it must repeat the sending of the MP_CAPABLE option from the ﬁrst ACK,
with additional data parameters. This MP_CAPABLE option is used in place of the DSS and simply
speciﬁes (1) the Data-Level Length of the payload and (2) the checksum (if the use of checksums
is negotiated). This is the minimal data required to establish an MPTCP connection -- it allows
validation of the payload, and given that it is the ﬁrst data, the Initial Data Sequence Number
(IDSN) is also known (as it is generated from the key, as described below). Conveying the keys on

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

the ﬁrst data packet allows the TCP reliability mechanisms to ensure that the packet is
successfully delivered. The receiver will acknowledge this data at the connection level with a
Data ACK, as if a DSS option has been received.

There could be situations where both A and B attempt to transmit initial data at the same time.
For example, if A did not initially have data to send but then needed to transmit data before it
had received anything from B, it would use an MP_CAPABLE option with data parameters (since
it would not know if the MP_CAPABLE on the ACK was received). In such a situation, B may also
have transmitted data with a DSS option, but it had not yet been received at A. Therefore, B has
received data with an MP_CAPABLE mapping after it has sent data with a DSS option. To ensure
that these situations can be handled, it follows that the data parameters in an MP_CAPABLE are
semantically equivalent to those in a DSS option and can be used interchangeably. Similar
situations could occur when the MP_CAPABLE with data is lost and retransmitted. Furthermore,
in the case of TCP segmentation oﬄoading, the MP_CAPABLE with data parameters may be
duplicated across multiple packets, and implementations must also be able to cope with
duplicate MP_CAPABLE mappings as well as duplicate DSS mappings.

Additionally, the MP_CAPABLE exchange allows the safe passage of MPTCP options on SYN
packets to be determined. If any of these options are dropped, MPTCP will gracefully fall back to
regular single-path TCP, as documented in Section 3.7. If at any point in the handshake either
party thinks the MPTCP negotiation is compromised -- for example, by a middlebox corrupting
the TCP options or by unexpected ACK numbers being present -- the host
and no longer include MPTCP options in future TCP packets. The other host will then also fall
back to regular TCP using the fallback mechanism. Note that new subﬂows
MUST NOT
established (using the process documented in Section 3.2) until a DSS option has been
successfully received across the path (as documented in Section 3.3).

 stop using MPTCP

MUST

 be

Like all MPTCP options, the MP_CAPABLE option starts with the Kind and Length to specify the
TCP option's kind and length. This information is followed by the MP_CAPABLE option. The ﬁrst 4
bits of the ﬁrst octet in the MP_CAPABLE option (Figure 4) deﬁne the MPTCP Option Subtype (see
Section 7; for MP_CAPABLE, this value is 0x0), and the remaining 4 bits of this octet specify the
MPTCP version in use (for this speciﬁcation, this value is 1).

The second octet is reserved for ﬂags, allocated as follows:

A:

B:

The leftmost bit, labeled "A",
 be set to 1 to indicate "Checksum required",
unless the system administrator has decided that checksums are not required (for
example, if the environment is controlled and no middleboxes exist that might
adjust the payload).

SHOULD

The second bit, labeled "B", is an extensibility ﬂag. It
implementations. This ﬂag will be used for an extensibility mechanism in a future
speciﬁcation, and the impact of this ﬂag will be deﬁned at a later date. It is
expected, but not mandated, that this ﬂag would be used as part of an alternative
security mechanism that does not require a full version upgrade of the protocol
but does require redeﬁning some elements of the handshake. If receiving a
message with the "B" ﬂag set to 1 and this is not understood, then the

 be set to 0 for current

MUST

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

 be silently ignored, which triggers a fallback to
MP_CAPABLE in this SYN
regular TCP; the sender is expected to retry with a format compatible with this
legacy speciﬁcation. Note that the length of the MP_CAPABLE option, and the
meanings of bits "D" through "H", may be altered by setting B=1.

MUST

C:

D through H:

The third bit, labeled "C", is set to 1 to indicate that the sender of this option will
not accept additional MPTCP subﬂows to the source address and port, and
therefore the receiver
address and port. This improves eﬃciency in situations where the sender knows a
restriction is in place -- for example, if the sender is behind a strict NAT or
operating behind a legacy Layer 4 load balancer.

 try to open any additional subﬂows toward this

MUST NOT

The remaining bits, labeled "D" through "H", are used for crypto algorithm
negotiation. In this speciﬁcation, only the rightmost bit, labeled "H", is assigned.
Bit "H" indicates the use of HMAC-SHA256 (as deﬁned in Section 3.2). An
implementation that only supports this method
through "G" to 0.

 set bit "H" to 1 and bits "D"

MUST

A crypto algorithm
option
MUST
handshake).

MUST

 be speciﬁed. If ﬂag bits "D" through "H" are all 0, the MP_CAPABLE

 be treated as invalid and ignored (that is, it must be treated as a regular TCP

MUST

 be a truncated (most signiﬁcant 32 bits) SHA-256 hash

The selection of the authentication algorithm also impacts the algorithm used to generate the
token and the IDSN. In this speciﬁcation, with only the SHA-256 algorithm (bit "H") speciﬁed and
selected, the token
 of the
key. A diﬀerent, 64-bit truncation (the least signiﬁcant 64 bits) of the SHA-256 hash of the key
 be hashed in network byte order. Also note
MUST
MUST
that the "least signiﬁcant" bits
Future speciﬁcations of the use of the crypto bits may choose to specify diﬀerent algorithms for
token and IDSN generation.

 be the rightmost bits of the SHA-256 digest, as per

 be used as the IDSN. Note that the key

[RFC6234]

MUST

.
[RFC6234]

Both the crypto and checksum bits negotiate capabilities in similar ways. For the "Checksum
required" bit (labeled "A"), if either host requires the use of checksums, checksums
In other words, the only way for checksums not to be used is if both hosts in their SYNs set A=0.
This decision is conﬁrmed by the setting of the "A" bit in the third packet (the ACK) of the
handshake. For example, if the initiator sets A=0 in the SYN but the responder sets A=1 in the
SYN/ACK, checksums
The decision regarding whether to use checksums will be stored by an implementation in a per-
connection binary state variable. If A=1 is received by a host that does not want to use
checksums, it
invalid.

 fall back to regular TCP by ignoring the MP_CAPABLE option as if it was

 be used in both directions, and the initiator will set A=1 in the ACK.

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be used.

For crypto negotiation, the responder has the choice. The initiator creates a proposal setting a bit
for each algorithm it supports to 1 (in this version of the speciﬁcation, there is only one proposal,
so bit "H" will always be set to 1). The responder responds with only 1 bit set -- this is the chosen
algorithm. The rationale for this behavior is that the responder will typically be a server with
potentially many thousands of connections, so it may wish to choose an algorithm with minimal

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

computational complexity, depending on the load. If a responder does not support (or does not
want to support) any of the initiator's proposals, it
option, thus forcing a fallback to regular TCP.

 respond without an MP_CAPABLE

MUST

The MP_CAPABLE option is only used in the ﬁrst subﬂow of a connection, in order to identify the
connection; all subsequent subﬂows will use the MP_JOIN option (see Section 3.2) to join the
existing connection.

 operate as a regular,
MUST
 contain one in response. If the third packet (the ACK) does not contain the MP_CAPABLE

If a SYN contains an MP_CAPABLE option but the SYN/ACK does not, it is assumed that the sender
of the SYN/ACK is not multipath capable; thus, the MPTCP session
single-path TCP session. If a SYN does not contain an MP_CAPABLE option, the SYN/ACK
NOT
 fall back to operating as a regular, single-path TCP session. This is
option, then the session
done to maintain compatibility with middleboxes on the path that drop some or all TCP options.
Note that an implementation
 choose to attempt sending MPTCP options more than one time
before making this decision to operate as regular TCP (see Section 3.9).

MUST

MUST

MAY

If the SYN packets are unacknowledged, it is up to local policy to decide how to respond. It is
expected that a sender will eventually fall back to single-path TCP (i.e., without the MP_CAPABLE
option) in order to work around middleboxes that may drop packets with unknown options;
however, the number of multipath-capable attempts that are made ﬁrst will be up to local policy.
It is possible that MPTCP and non-MPTCP SYNs could get reordered in the network. Therefore,
the ﬁnal state is inferred from the presence or absence of the MP_CAPABLE option in the third
packet of the TCP handshake. If this option is not present, the connection
regular TCP, as documented in Section 3.7.

 fall back to

SHOULD

The IDSN on an MPTCP connection is generated from the key. The algorithm for IDSN generation
is also determined from the negotiated authentication algorithm. In this speciﬁcation, with only
the SHA-256 algorithm speciﬁed and selected, the IDSN of a host
64 bits of the SHA-256 hash of its key, i.e., IDSN-A = Hash(Key-A) and IDSN-B = Hash(Key-B). This
deterministic generation of the IDSN allows a receiver to ensure that there are no gaps in
sequence space at the start of the connection. The SYN with MP_CAPABLE occupies the ﬁrst octet
of data sequence space, although this does not need to be acknowledged at the connection level
until the ﬁrst data is sent (see Section 3.3).

 be the least signiﬁcant

MUST

3.2.  Starting a New Subﬂow

Once an MPTCP connection has begun with the MP_CAPABLE exchange, further subﬂows can be
added to the connection. Hosts have knowledge of their own address(es) and can become aware
of the other host's addresses through signaling exchanges as described in Section 3.4. Using this
knowledge, a host can initiate a new subﬂow over a currently unused pair of addresses. It is
permissible for either host in a connection to initiate the creation of a new subﬂow, but it is
expected that this will normally be the original connection initiator (see Section 3.9 for
heuristics).

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

A new subﬂow is started as a normal TCP SYN/ACK exchange. The Join Connection (MP_JOIN)
MPTCP option is used to identify the connection to be joined by the new subﬂow. It uses keying
material that was exchanged in the initial MP_CAPABLE handshake (Section 3.1), and that
handshake also negotiates the crypto algorithm in use for the MP_JOIN handshake.

This section speciﬁes the behavior of MP_JOIN using the HMAC-SHA256 algorithm. An MP_JOIN
option is present in the SYN, SYN/ACK, and ACK of the three-way handshake, although in each
case with a diﬀerent format.

In the ﬁrst MP_JOIN on the SYN packet, illustrated in Figure 5, the initiator sends a token, random
number, and Address ID.

                       1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----+-+---------------+
  |     Kind      |  Length = 12  |Subtype|(rsv)|B|   Address ID  |
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----+-+---------------+
  |                   Receiver's Token (32 bits)                  |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                Sender's Random Number (32 bits)               |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 5: Join Connection (MP_JOIN) Option (for Initial SYN)

The token is used to identify the MPTCP connection and is a cryptographic hash of the receiver's
key, as exchanged in the initial MP_CAPABLE handshake (Section 3.1). In this speciﬁcation, the
tokens presented in this option are generated by the SHA-256 algorithm
the most signiﬁcant 32 bits. The token included in the MP_JOIN option is the token that the
receiver of the packet uses to identify this connection; i.e., Host A will send Token-B (which is
generated from Key-B). Note that the hash generation algorithm can be overridden by the choice
of cryptographic handshake algorithm, as deﬁned in Section 3.1.

, truncated to

[RFC6234]

The MP_JOIN SYN sends not only the token (which is static for a connection) but also random
numbers (nonces) that are used to prevent replay attacks on the authentication method.
Recommendations for the generation of random numbers for this purpose are given in
.
[RFC4086]

The MP_JOIN option includes an "Address ID". This is an identiﬁer generated by the sender of the
option, used to identify the source address of this packet, even if the IP header has been changed
in transit by a middlebox. The numeric value of this ﬁeld is generated by the sender and must
map uniquely to a source IP address for the sending host. The Address ID allows address removal
(Section 3.4.2) without needing to know what the source address at the receiver is, thus allowing
address removal through NATs. The Address ID also allows correlation between new subﬂow
setup attempts and address signaling (Section 3.4.1), to prevent setting up duplicate subﬂows on
the same path, if an MP_JOIN and ADD_ADDR are sent at the same time.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

The Address IDs of the subﬂow used in the initial SYN exchange of the ﬁrst subﬂow in the
connection are implicit and have the value zero. A host
 store the mappings between
Address IDs and addresses both for itself and the remote host. An implementation will also need
to know which local and remote Address IDs are associated with which established subﬂows, for
when addresses are removed from a local or remote host.

MUST

MUST

 be set to 0 by the sender. The ﬁnal bit, labeled "B", indicates

The MP_JOIN option on packets with the SYN ﬂag set also includes 4 bits of ﬂags, 3 of which are
currently reserved and
whether the sender of this option (1) wishes this subﬂow to be used as a backup path (B=1) in the
event of failure of other paths or (2) wants the subﬂow to be used as part of the connection
immediately. By setting B=1, the sender of the option is requesting that the other host only send
data on this subﬂow if there are no available subﬂows where B=0. Subﬂow policy is discussed in
more detail in Section 3.3.8.

SHOULD

 respond with a SYN/ACK also containing an MP_JOIN option

When receiving a SYN with an MP_JOIN option that contains a valid token for an existing MPTCP
connection, the recipient
containing a random number and a truncated (leftmost 64 bits) HMAC. This version of the option
is shown in Figure 6. If the token is unknown or the host wants to refuse subﬂow establishment
(for example, due to a limit on the number of subﬂows it will permit), the receiver will send back
a reset (RST) signal, analogous to an unknown port in TCP, containing an MP_TCPRST option
(Section 3.6) with an "MPTCP speciﬁc error" reason code. Although calculating an HMAC requires
cryptographic operations, it is believed that the 32-bit token in the MP_JOIN SYN gives suﬃcient
protection against blind state exhaustion attacks; therefore, there is no need to provide
mechanisms to allow a responder to operate statelessly at the MP_JOIN stage.

                       1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----+-+---------------+
  |     Kind      |  Length = 16  |Subtype|(rsv)|B|   Address ID  |
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----+-+---------------+
  |                                                               |
  |                Sender's Truncated HMAC (64 bits)              |
  |                                                               |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                Sender's Random Number (32 bits)               |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 6: Join Connection (MP_JOIN) Option (for Responding SYN/ACK)

An HMAC is sent by both hosts -- by the initiator (Host A) in the third packet (the ACK) and by the
responder (Host B) in the second packet (the SYN/ACK). Doing the HMAC exchange at this stage
allows both hosts to have ﬁrst exchanged random data (in the ﬁrst two SYN packets) that is used
as the "message". This speciﬁcation deﬁnes that HMAC as deﬁned in
, and that the output is truncated to the leftmost 160
with the SHA-256 hash algorithm
bits (20 octets). Due to option space limitations, the HMAC included in the SYN/ACK is truncated
to the leftmost 64 bits, but this is acceptable, since random numbers are used; thus, an attacker

 is used, along

[RFC6234]

[RFC2104]

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

only has one chance to correctly guess the HMAC that matches the random number previously
sent by the peer (if the HMAC is incorrect, the TCP connection is closed, so a new MP_JOIN
negotiation with a new random number is required).

The initiator's authentication information is sent in its ﬁrst ACK (the third packet of the
handshake), as shown in Figure 7. This data needs to be sent reliably, since it is the only time this
HMAC is sent; therefore, receipt of this packet
MUST
the packet
MP_JOIN packet places the subﬂow in the PRE_ESTABLISHED state, and it moves to the
ESTABLISHED state only on receipt of an ACK from the receiver. It is not permissible to send data
while in the PRE_ESTABLISHED state. The reserved bits in this option
sender.

 be retransmitted if this ACK is not received. In other words, sending the ACK/

 trigger a regular TCP ACK in response, and

 be set to 0 by the

MUST

MUST

                       1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----------------------+
  |     Kind      |  Length = 24  |Subtype|      (reserved)       |
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----------------------+
  |                                                               |
  |                                                               |
  |              Sender's Truncated HMAC (160 bits)               |
  |                                                               |
  |                                                               |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 7: Join Connection (MP_JOIN) Option (for Initiator's First ACK)

The key for the HMAC algorithm, in the case of the message transmitted by Host A, will be Key-A
followed by Key-B; and in the case of Host B, Key-B followed by Key-A. These are the keys that
were exchanged in the original MP_CAPABLE handshake. The "message" for the HMAC algorithm
in each case is the concatenations of random numbers for each host (denoted by R): for Host A, R-
A followed by R-B; and for Host B, R-B followed by R-A.

These various MPTCP options ﬁt together to enable authenticated subﬂow setup as illustrated in
Figure 8.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

                Host A                                  Host B
       ------------------------                       ----------
       Address A1    Address A2                       Address B1
       ----------    ----------                       ----------
           |             |                                |
           |             |  SYN + MP_CAPABLE              |
           |--------------------------------------------->|
           |<---------------------------------------------|
           |          SYN/ACK + MP_CAPABLE(Key-B)         |
           |             |                                |
           |        ACK + MP_CAPABLE(Key-A, Key-B)        |
           |--------------------------------------------->|
           |             |                                |
           |             |   SYN + MP_JOIN(Token-B, R-A)  |
           |             |------------------------------->|
           |             |<-------------------------------|
           |             | SYN/ACK + MP_JOIN(HMAC-B, R-B) |
           |             |                                |
           |             |     ACK + MP_JOIN(HMAC-A)      |
           |             |------------------------------->|
           |             |<-------------------------------|
           |             |             ACK                |

       HMAC-A = HMAC(Key=(Key-A + Key-B), Msg=(R-A + R-B))
       HMAC-B = HMAC(Key=(Key-B + Key-A), Msg=(R-B + R-A))

Figure 8: Example Use of MPTCP Authentication

If the token received at Host B is unknown or local policy prohibits the acceptance of the new
subﬂow, the recipient
MP_TCPRST option with an "Administratively prohibited" reason code (Section 3.6) should be
included.

 respond with a TCP RST for the subﬂow. If appropriate, an

MUST

If the token is accepted at Host B but the HMAC returned to Host A does not match the one
 close the subﬂow with a TCP RST. In this and all subsequent cases of
expected, Host A
sending a RST as described in this section, the sender
SHOULD
(Section 3.6) on this RST packet with the reason code for an "MPTCP-speciﬁc error".

 send an MP_TCPRST option

MUST

If Host B does not receive the expected HMAC or the MP_JOIN option is missing from the ACK, it
MUST

 close the subﬂow with a TCP RST.

If the HMACs are veriﬁed as correct, then both hosts have veriﬁed each other as being the same
peers as those that existed at the start of the connection, and they have agreed of which
connection this subﬂow will become a part.

If the SYN/ACK as received at Host A does not have an MP_JOIN option, Host A
subﬂow with a TCP RST.

MUST

 close the

This covers all cases of the loss of an MP_JOIN. In more detail, if an MP_JOIN is stripped from the
SYN on the path from A to B and Host B does not have a listener on the relevant port, it will
respond with a RST in the normal way. If in response to a SYN with an MP_JOIN option a SYN/ACK

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

is received without the MP_JOIN option (because it was either stripped on the return path, or
stripped on the outgoing path leading to Host B responding as if it was a new regular TCP
session), then the subﬂow is unusable and Host A

 close it with a RST.

MUST

Note that additional subﬂows can be created between any pair of ports (but see Section 3.9 for
heuristics); no explicit application-level accept calls or bind calls are required to open additional
subﬂows. To associate a new subﬂow with an existing connection, the token supplied in the
subﬂow's SYN exchange is used for demultiplexing. This then binds the 5-tuple of the TCP
subﬂow to the local token of the connection. One consequence is that it is possible to allow any
port pairs to be used for a connection.

MUST

Demultiplexing subﬂow SYNs
the destination port is used for demultiplexing SYN packets. Once a subﬂow is set up,
demultiplexing packets is done using the 5-tuple, as in traditional TCP. The 5-tuples will be
mapped to the local connection identiﬁer (token). Note that Host A will know its local token for
the subﬂow even though it is not sent on the wire -- only the responder's token is sent.

 be done using the token; this is unlike traditional TCP, where

3.3.  MPTCP Operation and Data Transfer

This section discusses the operation of MPTCP for data transfer. At a high level, an MPTCP
implementation will take one input data stream from an application and split it into one or more
subﬂows, with suﬃcient control information to allow it to be reassembled and delivered reliably
and in order to the recipient application. The following subsections deﬁne this behavior in detail.

The Data Sequence Mapping and the Data ACK are signaled in the DSS option (Figure 9). Either or
both can be signaled in one DSS, depending on the ﬂags set. The Data Sequence Mapping deﬁnes
how the sequence space on the subﬂow maps to the connection level, and the Data ACK
acknowledges receipt of data at the connection level. These functions are described in more
detail in the following two subsections.

                       1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +---------------+---------------+-------+----------------------+
  |     Kind      |    Length     |Subtype| (reserved) |F|m|M|a|A|
  +---------------+---------------+-------+----------------------+
  |           Data ACK (4 or 8 octets, depending on flags)       |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |   Data Sequence Number (4 or 8 octets, depending on flags)   |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |              Subflow Sequence Number (4 octets)              |
  +-------------------------------+------------------------------+
  |  Data-Level Length (2 octets) |      Checksum (2 octets)     |
  +-------------------------------+------------------------------+

Figure 9: Data Sequence Signal (DSS) Option

The ﬂags, when set, deﬁne the contents of this option, as follows:

•

A = Data ACK present

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

•

a = Data ACK is 8 octets (if not set, Data ACK is 4 octets)

•

M = Data Sequence Number (DSN), Subﬂow Sequence Number (SSN), Data-Level Length, and
Checksum (if negotiated) present

•

m = Data Sequence Number is 8 octets (if not set, DSN is 4 octets)

The ﬂags "a" and "m" only have meaning if the corresponding "A" or "M" ﬂags are set; otherwise,
they will be ignored. The maximum length of this option, with all ﬂags set, is 28 octets.

The "F" ﬂag indicates "Data FIN". If present, this means that this mapping covers the ﬁnal data
from the sender. This is the connection-level equivalent of the FIN ﬂag in single-path TCP. A
connection is not closed unless there has been a Data FIN exchange, an MP_FASTCLOSE (Section
3.5) message, or an implementation-speciﬁc connection-level send timeout. The purpose of the
Data FIN and the interactions between this ﬂag, the subﬂow-level FIN ﬂag, and the Data
Sequence Mapping are described in Section 3.3.3. The remaining reserved bits
by an implementation of this speciﬁcation.

 be set to 0

MUST

Note that the checksum is only present in this option if the use of MPTCP checksumming has
been negotiated at the MP_CAPABLE handshake (see Section 3.1). The presence of the checksum
can be inferred from the length of the option. If a checksum is present but its use had not been
 close the subﬂow with a RST, as it
negotiated in the MP_CAPABLE handshake, the receiver
is not behaving as negotiated. If a checksum is not present when its use has been negotiated, the
receiver
SHOULD
"MPTCP-speciﬁc error".

MUST
 be accompanied by an MP_TCPRST option (Section 3.6) with the reason code for an

 close the subﬂow with a RST, as it is considered broken. In both cases, this RST

MUST

3.3.1.  Data Sequence Mapping

The data stream as a whole can be reassembled through the use of the Data Sequence Mapping
components of the DSS option (Figure 9), which deﬁne the mapping from the subﬂow sequence
number to the data sequence number. This is used by the receiver to ensure in-order delivery to
the application layer. Meanwhile, the subﬂow-level sequence numbers (i.e., the regular sequence
numbers in the TCP header) are only relevant to the subﬂow. It is expected (but not mandated)
 will be used at the subﬂow level to improve eﬃciency.
that SACK

[RFC2018]

The Data Sequence Mapping speciﬁes a mapping from the subﬂow sequence space to the data
sequence space. This is expressed in terms of starting sequence numbers for the subﬂow and the
data level, and a length of bytes for which this mapping is valid. This explicit mapping for a
range of data, rather than per‑packet signaling, was chosen to assist with compatibility with
situations where TCP/IP segmentation or coalescing is undertaken separately from the stack that
is generating the data ﬂow (e.g., through the use of TCP segmentation oﬄoading on network
interface cards, or by middleboxes such as Performance Enhancing Proxies (PEPs)
[RFC3135]
also allows a single mapping to cover many packets; this may be useful in bulk‑transfer
situations.

). It

A mapping is ﬁxed, in that the subﬂow sequence number is bound to the data sequence number
after the mapping has been processed. A sender
 change this mapping after it has been
declared; however, the same data sequence number can be mapped to by diﬀerent subﬂows for

MUST NOT

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

retransmission purposes (see Section 3.3.6). This would also permit the same data to be sent
simultaneously on multiple subﬂows for resilience or eﬃciency purposes, especially in the case
of lossy links. Although the detailed speciﬁcation of such operation is outside the scope of this
document, an implementation
 treat the ﬁrst data that is received at a subﬂow for the
data sequence space as the data that should be delivered to the application, and any subsequent
data for that sequence space

 be ignored.

SHOULD

SHOULD

The data sequence number is speciﬁed as an absolute value, whereas the subﬂow sequence
numbering is relative (the SYN at the start of the subﬂow has a relative subﬂow sequence
number of 0). This is done to allow middleboxes to change the Initial Sequence Number (ISN) of a
subﬂow, such as ﬁrewalls that undertake ISN randomization.

The Data Sequence Mapping also contains a checksum of the data that this mapping covers, if the
use of checksums has been negotiated at the MP_CAPABLE exchange. Checksums are used to
detect if the payload has been adjusted in any way by a non-MPTCP-aware middlebox. If this
checksum fails, it will trigger a failure of the subﬂow, or a fallback to regular TCP, as documented
in Section 3.7, since MPTCP can no longer reliably know the subﬂow sequence space at the
receiver to build Data Sequence Mappings. Without checksumming enabled, corrupt data may be
delivered to the application if a middlebox alters segment boundaries, alters content, or does not
deliver all segments covered by a Data Sequence Mapping. It is therefore
checksumming be used, unless it is known that the network path contains no such devices.

RECOMMENDED

 that

The checksum algorithm used is the standard TCP checksum
covered by this mapping, along with a pseudo‑header as shown in Figure 10.

[RFC0793]

, operating over the data

                       1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                Data Sequence Number (8 octets)               |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |              Subflow Sequence Number (4 octets)              |
  +-------------------------------+------------------------------+
  |  Data-Level Length (2 octets) |        Zeros (2 octets)      |
  +-------------------------------+------------------------------+

Figure 10: Pseudo-Header for DSS Checksum

Note that the data sequence number used in the pseudo-header is always the 64-bit value,
irrespective of what length is used in the DSS option itself. The standard TCP checksum algorithm
has been chosen, since it will be calculated anyway for the TCP subﬂow, and if calculated ﬁrst
over the data before adding the pseudo-headers, it only needs to be calculated once.
Furthermore, since the TCP checksum is additive, the checksum for a DSN_MAP can be
constructed by simply adding together the checksums for the data of each constituent TCP
segment and adding the checksum for the DSS pseudo‑header.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Note that checksumming relies on the TCP subﬂow containing contiguous data; therefore, a TCP
subﬂow
however, that if Urgent data is received on a subﬂow, it
space and delivered to the application, analogous to Urgent data in regular TCP.

 use the Urgent Pointer to interrupt an existing mapping. Further note,

 be mapped to the data sequence

MUST NOT

SHOULD

SHOULD

To avoid possible deadlock scenarios, subﬂow-level processing should be undertaken separately
from processing at the connection level. Therefore, even if a mapping does not exist from the
subﬂow space to the data‑level space, the data
 still be ACKed at the subﬂow (if it is in-
window). This data cannot, however, be acknowledged at the data level (Section 3.3.2) because its
data sequence numbers are unknown. Implementations
 hold onto such unmapped data for
a short while, in the expectation that a mapping will arrive shortly. Such unmapped data cannot
be counted as being within the connection-level receive window because this is relative to the
data sequence numbers, so if the receiver runs out of memory to hold this data, it will have to be
discarded. If a mapping for that subﬂow-level sequence space does not arrive within a receive
window of data, that subﬂow
unmapped data silently discarded.

 be treated as broken, closed with a RST, and any

SHOULD

MAY

Data sequence numbers are always 64-bit quantities and
implementations. If a connection is progressing at a slow rate, so protection against wrapped
sequence numbers is not required, then an implementation
the data sequence number in the Data Sequence Mapping and /or Data ACK as an optimization,
and an implementation can make this choice independently for each packet. An implementation
 be able to receive and process both 64-bit and 32-bit sequence number values, but it is not
MUST
required that an implementation be able to send both.

 include just the lower 32 bits of

 be maintained as such in

MUST

MAY

MUST

[RFC7323]

 send the full 64-bit data sequence number if it is transmitting at a

. The lengths of the DSNs used in these values (which may be diﬀerent) are

An implementation
suﬃciently high rate that the 32-bit value could wrap within the Maximum Segment Lifetime
(MSL)
declared with ﬂags in the DSS option. Implementations
 accept a 32-bit DSN and implicitly
promote it to a 64-bit quantity by incrementing the upper 32 bits of the sequence number each
 be implemented to ensure that a wrap occurs
time the lower 32 bits wrap. A sanity check
MUST
at an expected time (e.g., the sequence number jumps from a very high number to a very low
number) and is not triggered by out‑of-order packets.

MUST

As with the standard TCP sequence number, the data sequence number should not start at zero,
but at a random value to make blind session hijacking harder. This speciﬁcation requires setting
the IDSN of each host to the least signiﬁcant 64 bits of the SHA-256 hash of the host's key, as
described in Section 3.1. This is also required in order for the receiver to know what the expected
IDSN is and thus determine if any initial connection-level packets are missing; this is particularly
relevant if two subﬂows start transmitting simultaneously.

The mapping provided by a Data Sequence Mapping MUST apply to some or all of the subﬂow
sequence space in the TCP segment that carries the option. It does not need to be included in
every MPTCP packet, as long as the subﬂow sequence space in that packet is covered by a
mapping known at the receiver. This can be used to reduce overhead in cases where the
mapping is known in advance. One such case is when there is a single subﬂow between the
hosts, and another is when segments of data are scheduled in larger-than-packet-sized chunks.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

An "inﬁnite" mapping can be used to fall back to regular TCP by mapping the subﬂow-level data
to the connection-level data for the remainder of the connection (see Section 3.7). This is
achieved by setting the Data-Level Length ﬁeld of the DSS option to the reserved value of 0. The
checksum, in such a case, will also be set to 0.

3.3.2.  Data Acknowledgments

To provide full end-to-end resilience, MPTCP provides a connection-level acknowledgment, to act
as a cumulative ACK for the connection as a whole. This is done via the "Data ACK" ﬁeld of the
DSS option (Figure 9). The Data ACK is analogous to the behavior of the standard TCP cumulative
ACK -- indicating how much data has been successfully received (with no holes). This can be
compared to the subﬂow-level ACK, which acts in a fashion analogous to TCP SACK, given that
there may still be holes in the data stream at the connection level. The Data ACK speciﬁes the
next data sequence number it expects to receive.

The Data ACK, as for the DSN, can be sent as the full 64-bit value or as the lower 32 bits. If data is
 be acknowledged with a 64-bit Data ACK. If the DSN received
received with a 64-bit DSN, it
is 32 bits, an implementation can choose whether to send a 32-bit or 64-bit Data ACK, and an
implementation

 accept either in this situation.

MUST

MUST

The Data ACK proves that the data, and all required MPTCP signaling, have been received and
accepted by the remote end. One key use of the Data ACK signal is that it is used to indicate the
left edge of the advertised receive window. As explained in Section 3.3.4, the receive window is
shared by all subﬂows and is relative to the Data ACK. Because of this, an implementation
MUST
NOT
option with a Data ACK ﬁeld. Furthermore, separating the connection-level acknowledgments
from the subﬂow level allows processing to be done separately, and a receiver has the freedom to
drop segments after acknowledgment at the subﬂow level -- for example, due to memory
constraints when many segments arrive out of order.

 use the RCV.WND ﬁeld of a TCP segment at the connection level if it does not also carry a DSS

MUST NOT

An MPTCP sender
 free data from the send buﬀer until it has been acknowledged by
both a Data ACK received on any subﬂow and at the subﬂow level by all subﬂows on which the
data was sent. The former condition ensures liveness of the connection, and the latter condition
ensures liveness and self-consistence of a subﬂow when data needs to be retransmitted. Note,
however, that if some data needs to be retransmitted multiple times over a subﬂow, there is a
risk of blocking the send window. In this case, the MPTCP sender can decide to terminate the
subﬂow that is behaving badly by sending a RST, using an appropriate MP_TCPRST (Section 3.6)
error code.

MAY

 be included in all segments; however, optimizations

 be considered in
The Data ACK
more advanced implementations, where the Data ACK is present in segments only when the Data
ACK value advances, and this behavior
send buﬀer is freed, while reducing overhead when the data transfer is unidirectional.

 be treated as valid. This behavior ensures that the

SHOULD

MUST

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

3.3.3.  Closing a Connection

In regular TCP, a FIN announces to the receiver that the sender has no more data to send. In
order to allow subﬂows to operate independently and to keep the appearance of TCP over the
wire, a FIN in MPTCP only aﬀects the subﬂow on which it is sent. This allows nodes to exercise
considerable freedom over which paths are in use at any one time. The semantics of a FIN
remain as for regular TCP; i.e., it is not until both sides have ACKed each other's FINs that the
subﬂow is fully closed.

When an application calls close() on a socket, this indicates that it has no more data to send; for
regular TCP, this would result in a FIN on the connection. For MPTCP, an equivalent mechanism is
needed; this is referred to as the DATA_FIN.

A DATA_FIN is an indication that the sender has no more data to send, and as such it can be used
to verify that all data has been successfully received. A DATA_FIN, as with the FIN on a regular
TCP connection, is a unidirectional signal.

The DATA_FIN is signaled by setting the "F" ﬂag in the DSS option (Figure 9) to 1. A DATA_FIN
occupies 1 octet (the ﬁnal octet) of the connection-level sequence space. Note that the DATA_FIN
is included in the Data-Level Length but not at the subﬂow level: for example, a segment with a
DSN value of 80 and a Data-Level Length of 11, with DATA_FIN set, would map 10 octets from the
subﬂow into data sequence space 80-89, and the DATA_FIN would be DSN 90; therefore, this
segment, including DATA_FIN, would be acknowledged with a DATA_ACK of 91.

Note that when the DATA_FIN is not attached to a TCP segment containing data, the DSS
have a subﬂow sequence number of 0, a Data-Level Length of 1, and the data sequence number
that corresponds with the DATA_FIN itself. The checksum in this case will only cover the pseudo-
header.

MUST

A DATA_FIN has the same semantics and behavior as a regular TCP FIN, but at the connection
level. Notably, it is only DATA_ACKed once all data has been successfully received at the
connection level. Note, therefore, that a DATA_FIN is decoupled from a subﬂow FIN. It is only
permissible to combine these signals on one subﬂow if there is no data outstanding on other
subﬂows. Otherwise, it may be necessary to retransmit data on diﬀerent subﬂows. Essentially, a
host
data has been DATA_ACKed or until the segment with the DATA_FIN ﬂag set is the only
outstanding segment.

 close all functioning subﬂows unless it is safe to do so, i.e., until all outstanding

MUST NOT

SHOULD

 be closed with standard
 send FINs on all subﬂows, as a courtesy, to allow middleboxes

Once a DATA_FIN has been acknowledged, all remaining subﬂows
FIN exchanges. Both hosts
to clean up state even if an individual subﬂow has failed. Reducing the timeouts (MSL) on
subﬂows at end hosts after receiving a DATA_FIN is also encouraged. In particular, any subﬂows
where there is still outstanding data queued (which has been retransmitted on other subﬂows in
order to get the DATA_FIN acknowledged)
 be closed with a RST with an MP_TCPRST (Section
3.6) error code for "too much outstanding data".

MUST

MAY

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

A connection is considered closed once both hosts' DATA_FINs have been acknowledged by
DATA_ACKs.

As speciﬁed above, a standard TCP FIN on an individual subﬂow only shuts down the subﬂow on
which it was sent. If all subﬂows have been closed with a FIN exchange but no DATA_FIN has
been received and acknowledged, the MPTCP connection is treated as closed only after a timeout.
This implies that an implementation will have TIME_WAIT states at both the subﬂow level and
the connection level (see Appendix D). This permits "break-before-make" scenarios where
connectivity is lost on all subﬂows before a new one can be re‑established.

3.3.4.  Receiver Considerations

Regular TCP advertises a receive window in each packet, telling the sender how much data the
receiver is willing to accept past the cumulative ACK. The receive window is used to implement
ﬂow control, throttling down fast senders when receivers cannot keep up.

MPTCP also uses a unique receive window, shared between the subﬂows. The idea is to allow any
subﬂow to send data as long as the receiver is willing to accept it. The alternative -- maintaining
per-subﬂow receive windows -- could end up stalling some subﬂows while others would not use
up their window.

The receive window is relative to the DATA_ACK. As in TCP, a receiver
edge of the receive window (i.e., DATA_ACK + receive window). The receiver will use the data
sequence number to tell if a packet should be accepted at the connection level.

MUST NOT

 shrink the right

When deciding to accept packets at the subﬂow level, regular TCP checks the sequence number
in the packet against the allowed receive window. With MPTCP, such a check is done using only
the connection-level window. A sanity check
 be performed at the subﬂow level to ensure
SHOULD
that the subﬂow and mapped sequence numbers meet the following test: SSN - SUBFLOW_ACK <=
DSN - DATA_ACK, where SSN is the subﬂow sequence number of the received packet and
SUBFLOW_ACK is the RCV.NXT (next expected sequence number) of the subﬂow (with the
equivalent connection-level deﬁnitions for DSN and DATA_ACK).

In regular TCP, once a segment is deemed in-window, it is put in either the in-order receive queue
or the out-of-order queue. In Multipath TCP, the same thing happens, but at the connection level:
a segment is placed in the connection-level in-order or out-of-order queue if it is in-window at
both the connection level and the subﬂow level. The stack still has to remember, for each
subﬂow, which segments were received successfully so that it can ACK them at the subﬂow level
appropriately. Typically, this will be implemented by keeping per-subﬂow out-of-order queues
(containing only message headers -- not the payloads) and remembering the value of the
cumulative ACK.

It is important for implementers to understand how large a receive buﬀer is appropriate. The
lower bound for full network utilization is the maximum bandwidth-delay product of any one of
the paths. However, this might be insuﬃcient when a packet is lost on a slower subﬂow and
needs to be retransmitted (see Section 3.3.6). A tight upper bound would be the maximum round-
trip time (RTT) of any path multiplied by the total bandwidth available across all paths. This
permits all subﬂows to continue at full speed while a packet is fast-retransmitted on the

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

maximum RTT path. Even this might be insuﬃcient to maintain full performance in the event of
a retransmit timeout on the maximum RTT path. Determining the relationship between
retransmission strategies and receive buﬀer sizing is left for future study.

3.3.5.  Sender Considerations

The sender remembers receive window advertisements from the receiver. It should only update
its local receive window values when the largest sequence number allowed (i.e., DATA_ACK +
receive window) increases on the receipt of a DATA_ACK. This is important for allowing the use
of paths with diﬀerent RTTs and thus diﬀerent feedback loops.

MPTCP uses a single receive window across all subﬂows, and if the receive window was
guaranteed to be unchanged end to end, a host could always read the most recent receive
window value. However, some classes of middleboxes may alter the TCP-level receive window.
Typically, these will shrink the oﬀered window, although for short periods of time it may be
possible for the window to be larger (however, note that this would not continue for long
periods, since ultimately the middlebox must keep up with delivering data to the receiver).
Therefore, if receive window sizes diﬀer on multiple subﬂows, when sending data MPTCP
SHOULD
rule is implicit in the requirement not to reduce the right edge of the window.

 take the largest of the most recent window sizes as the one to use in calculations. This

MUST

The sender
 also remember the receive windows advertised by each subﬂow. The allowed
window for subﬂow i is (ack_i, ack_i + rcv_wnd_i), where ack_i is the subﬂow-level cumulative
ACK of subﬂow i. This ensures that data will not be sent to a middlebox unless there is enough
buﬀering for the data.

Putting the two rules together, we get the following: a sender is allowed to send data segments
with data-level sequence numbers between (DATA_ACK, DATA_ACK + receive_window). Each of
these segments will be mapped onto subﬂows, as long as subﬂow sequence numbers are in the
allowed windows for those subﬂows. Note that subﬂow sequence numbers do not generally
aﬀect ﬂow control if the same receive window is advertised across all subﬂows. They will
perform ﬂow control for those subﬂows with a smaller advertised receive window.

The send buﬀer
reach maximum throughput.

MUST

, at a minimum, be as big as the receive buﬀer, to enable the sender to

3.3.6.  Reliability and Retransmissions

The Data Sequence Mapping allows senders to resend data with the same data sequence number
on a diﬀerent subﬂow. When doing this, a host
original subﬂow, in order to preserve the subﬂow's integrity (middleboxes could replay old data
and /or could reject holes in subﬂows), and a receiver will ignore these retransmissions. While
this is clearly suboptimal, for compatibility reasons this is sensible behavior. Optimizations could
be negotiated in future versions of this protocol. Note also that this property would also permit a
sender to always send the same data, with the same data sequence number, on multiple
subﬂows, if desired for reliability reasons.

 still retransmit the original data on the

MUST

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

This protocol speciﬁcation does not mandate any mechanisms for handling retransmissions, and
much will be dependent upon local policy (as discussed in Section 3.3.8). One can imagine
aggressive connection-level retransmission policies where every packet lost at the subﬂow level
is retransmitted on a diﬀerent subﬂow (hence wasting bandwidth but possibly reducing
application-to-application delays) or conservative retransmission policies where connection-level
retransmissions are only used after a few subﬂow-level retransmission timeouts occur.

It is envisaged that a standard connection-level retransmission mechanism would be
implemented around a connection-level data queue: all segments that haven't been DATA_ACKed
are stored. A timer is set when the head of the connection level is ACKed at the subﬂow level but
is not DATA_ACKed at the data level. This timer will guard against retransmission failures by
middleboxes that proactively ACK data.

MUST

 keep data in its send buﬀer as long as the data has not been acknowledged both

The sender
(1) at the connection level and (2) on all subﬂows on which it has been sent. In this way, the
sender can always retransmit the data if needed, on the same subﬂow or on a diﬀerent one. A
special case is when a subﬂow fails: the sender will typically resend the data on other working
subﬂows after a timeout and will keep trying to retransmit the data on the failed subﬂow too.
The sender will declare the subﬂow failed after a predeﬁned upper bound on retransmissions is
 be lower than the usual TCP limits of the MSL) or on the receipt of an ICMP
reached (which
error, and only then delete the outstanding data segments.

MAY

If multiple retransmissions that indicate that a subﬂow is performing badly are triggered, this
 lead to a host resetting the subﬂow with a RST. However, additional research is required to
MAY
understand the heuristics of how and when to reset underperforming subﬂows. For example, a
highly asymmetric path may be misdiagnosed as underperforming. A RST for this purpose
SHOULD

 be accompanied by an "Unacceptable performance" MP_TCPRST option (Section 3.6).

3.3.7.  Congestion Control Considerations

Diﬀerent subﬂows in an MPTCP connection have diﬀerent congestion windows. To achieve
fairness at bottlenecks and resource pooling, it is necessary to couple the congestion windows in
use on each subﬂow, in order to push most traﬃc to uncongested links. One algorithm for
achieving this is presented in
but is "safe" in that it is readily deployable in the current Internet. By this we mean that it does
not take up more capacity on any one path than if it was a single path ﬂow using only that route,
so this ensures fair coexistence with single-path TCP at shared bottlenecks.

; the algorithm does not achieve perfect resource pooling

[RFC6356]

It is foreseeable that diﬀerent congestion controllers will be implemented for MPTCP, each
aiming to achieve diﬀerent properties in the resource pooling / fairness / stability design space,
as well as those for achieving diﬀerent properties in quality of service, reliability, and resilience.

Regardless of the algorithm used, the design of MPTCP aims to provide the congestion control
implementations with suﬃcient information to make the right decisions; this information
includes, for each subﬂow, which packets were lost and when.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

3.3.8.  Subﬂow Policy

Within a local MPTCP implementation, a host may use any local policy it wishes to decide how to
share the traﬃc to be sent over the available paths.

In the typical use case, where the goal is to maximize throughput, all available paths will be used
simultaneously for data transfer, using coupled congestion control as described in
is expected, however, that other use cases will appear.

[RFC6356]

. It

For instance, one possibility is an "all-or-nothing" approach, i.e., have a second path ready for use
in the event of failure of the ﬁrst path, but alternatives could include entirely saturating one path
before using an additional path (the "overﬂow" case). Such choices would be most likely based on
the monetary cost of links but may also be based on properties such as the delay or jitter of links,
where stability (of delay or bandwidth) is more important than throughput. Application
requirements such as these are discussed in detail in

.
[RFC6897]

The ability to make eﬀective choices at the sender requires full knowledge of the path "cost",
which is unlikely to be the case. It would be desirable for a receiver to be able to signal their own
preferences for paths, since they will often be the multihomed party and may have to pay for
metered incoming bandwidth.

To enable this behavior, the MP_JOIN option (see Section 3.2) contains the "B" bit, which allows a
host to indicate to its peer that this path should be treated as a backup path to use only in the
event of failure of other working subﬂows (i.e., a subﬂow where the receiver has indicated that
B=1

 be used to send data unless there are no usable subﬂows where B=0).

SHOULD NOT

In the event that the available set of paths changes, a host may wish to signal a change in priority
of subﬂows to the peer (e.g., a subﬂow that was previously set as a backup should now take
priority over all remaining subﬂows). Therefore, the MP_PRIO option, shown in Figure 11, can be
used to change the "B" ﬂag of the subﬂow on which it is sent.

                       1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----+-+
  |     Kind      |     Length    |Subtype|(rsv)|B|
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----+-+

Figure 11: Change Subﬂow Priority (MP_PRIO) Option

Another use of the MP_PRIO option is to set the "B" ﬂag on a subﬂow to cleanly "retire" its use
before closing it and removing it with REMOVE_ADDR (Section 3.4.2) -- for example, to support
make-before-break session continuity, where new subﬂows are added before the previously used
subﬂows are closed.

It should be noted that the backup ﬂag is a request from a data receiver to a data sender only,
and the data sender
will do so, however, since local policies -- or technical diﬃculties -- may override MP_PRIO

 adhere to these requests. A host cannot assume that the data sender

SHOULD

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

requests. Note also that this signal applies to a single direction, and so the sender of this option
could choose to continue using the subﬂow to send data even if it has signaled B=1 to the other
host.

3.4.  Address Knowledge Exchange (Path Management)

We use the term "path management" to refer to the exchange of information about additional
paths between hosts, which in this design is managed by multiple addresses at hosts. For more
details regarding the architectural thinking behind this design, see the MPTCP architecture
document

[RFC6182]

.

This design makes use of two methods of sharing such information, and both can be used on a
connection. The ﬁrst is the direct setup of new subﬂows (described in Section 3.2), where the
initiator has an additional address. The second method (described in the following subsections)
signals addresses explicitly to the other host to allow it to initiate new subﬂows. The two
mechanisms are complementary: the ﬁrst is implicit and simple, while the second (explicit) is
more complex but is more robust. Together, these mechanisms allow addresses to change in
ﬂight (and thus support operation through NATs, since the source address need not be known);
they also allow the signaling of previously unknown addresses and of addresses belonging to
other address families (e.g., both IPv4 and IPv6).

Here is an example of typical operation of the protocol:

•

An MPTCP connection is initially set up between address /port A1 of Host A and address /port
B1 of Host B. If Host A is multihomed and multiaddressed, it can start an additional subﬂow
from its address A2 to B1, by sending a SYN with an MP_JOIN option from A2 to B1, using B's
previously declared token for this connection. Alternatively, if B is multihomed, it can try to
set up a new subﬂow from B2 to A1, using A's previously declared token. In either case, the
SYN will be sent to the port already in use for the original subﬂow on the receiving host.

•

Simultaneously (or after a timeout), an ADD_ADDR option (Section 3.4.1) is sent on an
existing subﬂow, informing the receiver of the sender's alternative address(es). The recipient
can use this information to open a new subﬂow to the sender's additional address(es). In our
example, A will send the ADD_ADDR option informing B of address /port A2. The mix of using
the SYN‑based option and the ADD_ADDR option, including timeouts, is implementation
speciﬁc and can be tailored to agree with local policy.

•

If subﬂow A2-B1 is successfully set up, Host B can use the Address ID in the MP_JOIN option
to correlate this source address with the ADD_ADDR option that will also arrive on an
existing subﬂow; now B knows not to open A2-B1, ignoring the ADD_ADDR. Otherwise, if B
has not received the A2-B1 MP_JOIN SYN but received the ADD_ADDR, it can try to initiate a
new subﬂow from one or more of its addresses to address A2. This permits new sessions to
be opened if one host is behind a NAT.

Other ways of using the two signaling mechanisms are possible; for instance, signaling addresses
in other address families can only be done explicitly using the Add Address (ADD_ADDR) option.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

3.4.1.  Address Advertisement

The ADD_ADDR MPTCP option announces additional addresses (and, optionally, ports) on which
a host can be reached (Figure 12). This option can be used at any time during a connection,
depending on when the sender wishes to enable multiple paths and /or when paths become
available. As with all MPTCP signals, the receiver
e.g., per

 undertake standard TCP validity checks,

, before acting upon it.

[RFC5961]

MUST

                       1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-------+---------------+
  |     Kind      |     Length    |Subtype|(rsv)|E|  Address ID   |
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-------+---------------+
  |           Address (IPv4: 4 octets / IPv6: 16 octets)          |
  +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
  |   Port (2 octets, optional)   |                               |
  +-------------------------------+                               |
  |                Truncated HMAC (8 octets, if E=0)              |
  |                               +-------------------------------+
  |                               |
  +-------------------------------+

Figure 12: Add Address (ADD_ADDR) Option

Every address has an Address ID that can be used for uniquely identifying the address within a
connection for address removal. The Address ID is also used to identify MP_JOIN options (see
Section 3.2) relating to the same address, even when address translators are in use. The Address
ID
connection); the mechanism for allocating such IDs is implementation speciﬁc.

 uniquely identify the address for the sender of the option (within the scope of the

MUST

SHOULD

 be stored by the receiver in a

All Address IDs learned via either MP_JOIN or ADD_ADDR
data structure that gathers all the Address-ID-to-address mappings for a connection (identiﬁed by
a token pair). In this way, there is a stored mapping between the Address ID, observed source
address, and token pair for future processing of control information for a connection. Note that
an implementation
updating mapping state or because advertised addresses are of no use to it (for example, IPv6
addresses when it has IPv4 only). Therefore, a host
 treat address advertisements as soft
state, and it
 choose to cache these address advertisements even if they are not currently relevant but
MAY
may be relevant in the future, such as IPv4 addresses when IPv6 connectivity is available but
IPv4 is awaiting DHCP.

 choose to refresh advertisements periodically. Note also that an implementation

 discard incoming address advertisements at will -- for example, to avoid

MUST

MAY

MAY

This option is shown in Figure 12. The illustration is sized for IPv4 addresses. For IPv6, the length
of the address will be 16 octets (instead of 4).

The 2 octets that specify the TCP port number to use are optional, and their presence can be
inferred from the length of the option. Although it is expected that the majority of use cases will
use the same port pairs as those used for the initial subﬂow (e.g., port 80 remains port 80 on all

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

subﬂows, as does the ephemeral port at the client), there may be cases (such as port-based load
balancing) where the explicit speciﬁcation of a diﬀerent port is required. If no port is speciﬁed,
MPTCP
 attempt to connect to the speciﬁed address on the same port as the port that is
already in use by the subﬂow on which the ADD_ADDR signal was sent; this is discussed in more
detail in Section 3.9.

SHOULD

[RFC6234]

[RFC2104]

, using the SHA-256 hash algorithm

The Truncated HMAC parameter present in this option is the rightmost 64 bits of an HMAC,
negotiated and calculated in the same way as for MP_JOIN as described in Section 3.2. For this
speciﬁcation of MPTCP, as there is only one hash algorithm option speciﬁed, this will be HMAC as
deﬁned in
MP_JOIN, the key for the HMAC algorithm, in the case of the message transmitted by Host A, will
be Key-A followed by Key-B, and in the case of Host B, Key-B followed by Key-A. These are the
keys that were exchanged in the original MP_CAPABLE handshake. The message for the HMAC is
the Address ID, IP address, and port that precede the HMAC in the ADD_ADDR option. If the port
is not present in the ADD_ADDR option, the HMAC message will nevertheless include 2 octets of
value zero. The rationale for the HMAC is to prevent unauthorized entities from injecting
ADD_ADDR signals in an attempt to hijack a connection. Note that, additionally, the presence of
this HMAC prevents the address from being changed in ﬂight unless the key is known by an
intermediary. If a host receives an ADD_ADDR option for which it cannot validate the HMAC, it
SHOULD

. In the same way as for

 silently ignore the option.

A set of four ﬂags is present after the subtype and before the Address ID. Only the rightmost bit --
labeled "E" -- is assigned in this speciﬁcation. The other bits are currently unassigned; they
MUST
 be ignored by the receiver.
be set to 0 by a sender and

MUST

The "E" ﬂag exists to provide reliability for this option. Because this option will often be sent on
pure ACKs, there is no guarantee of reliability. Therefore, a receiver receiving a fresh ADD_ADDR
option (where E=0) will send the same option back to the sender, but not including the HMAC
and with E=1, to indicate receipt. According to local policy, the lack of this type of "echo" can
indicate to the initial ADD_ADDR sender that the ADD_ADDR needs to be retransmitted.

[RFC1918]

. It is not desirable to prohibit this behavior, since there may be cases

Due to the proliferation of NATs, it is reasonably likely that one host may attempt to advertise
private addresses
where both hosts have additional interfaces on the same private network, and a host
advertise such addresses. The MP_JOIN handshake to create a new subﬂow (Section 3.2) provides
mechanisms to minimize security risks. The MP_JOIN message contains a 32-bit token that
uniquely identiﬁes the connection to the receiving host. If the token is unknown, the host will
respond with a RST. In the unlikely event that the token is valid at the receiving host, subﬂow
setup will continue, but the HMAC exchange must occur for authentication. The HMAC exchange
will fail and will provide suﬃcient protection against two unconnected hosts accidentally setting
up a new subﬂow upon the signal of a private address. Further security considerations around
the issue of ADD_ADDR messages that accidentally misdirect, or maliciously direct, new MP_JOIN
attempts are discussed in Section 5.

MAY

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

A host that receives an ADD_ADDR but ﬁnds that a connection set up to that IP address and port
number is unsuccessful
 perform further connection attempts to this address /port
combination for this connection. A sender that wants to trigger a new incoming connection
attempt on a previously advertised address /port combination can therefore refresh ADD_ADDR
information by sending the option again.

SHOULD NOT

MUST

 be the same as the address previously assigned to this Address ID. A new

A host can therefore send an ADD_ADDR message with an already-assigned Address ID, but the
address
ADD_ADDR may have the same port number or a diﬀerent port number. If the port number is
diﬀerent, the receiving host
combination.

 try to set up a new subﬂow to this new address /port

SHOULD

A host wishing to replace an existing Address ID
3.4.2).

MUST

 ﬁrst remove the existing one (Section

During normal MPTCP operation, it is unlikely that there will be suﬃcient TCP option space for
ADD_ADDR to be included along with those for data sequence numbering (Section 3.3.1).
Therefore, it is expected that an MPTCP implementation will send the ADD_ADDR option on
separate ACKs. As discussed earlier, however, an MPTCP implementation
duplicate ACKs with any MPTCP option, with the exception of the DSS option, as indications of
congestion
duplicate ACKs in a row for signaling purposes.

, and an MPTCP implementation

 send more than two

SHOULD NOT

[RFC5681]

MUST NOT

 treat

3.4.2.  Remove Address

 announce this situation so that the peer can remove subﬂows related to this address.

If, during the lifetime of an MPTCP connection, a previously announced address becomes invalid
(e.g., if the interface disappears or an IPv6 address is no longer preferred), the aﬀected host
SHOULD
Even if an address is not in use by an MPTCP connection, if it has been previously announced, an
implementation
 also choose to announce that a valid
IP address should not be used any longer -- for example, for make‑before-break session
continuity.

 announce its removal. A host

SHOULD

MAY

This is achieved through the Remove Address (REMOVE_ADDR) option (Figure 13), which will
remove a previously added address (or list of addresses) from a connection and terminate any
subﬂows currently using that address.

                     1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+---------------+---------------+-------+-------+---------------+
|     Kind      |Length = 3 + n |Subtype|(resvd)|   Address ID  | ...
+---------------+---------------+-------+-------+---------------+
                           (followed by n-1 Address IDs, if required)

Figure 13: Remove Address (REMOVE_ADDR) Option

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

SHOULD NOT

 ﬁrst trigger the sending of a TCP keepalive

 on the path, and if a response is
 be removed. If the path is found to still be alive, the receiving

For security purposes, if a host receives a REMOVE_ADDR option, it must ensure that the aﬀected
path or paths are no longer in use before it instigates closure. The receipt of REMOVE_ADDR
SHOULD
received, the path
host
SHOULD
responsibility of the host that sent the REMOVE_ADDR to shut down the subﬂow. Before the
address is removed, the requesting host
 also use MP_PRIO (Section 3.3.8) to request that a
path no longer be used. Typical TCP validity tests on the subﬂow (e.g., ensuring that sequence
and ACK numbers are correct)
MUST
of these test failures as part of intrusion detection or error logging.

 no longer use the speciﬁed address for future connections, but it is the

 also be undertaken. An implementation can use indications

[RFC1122]

MAY

The sending and receipt (if no keepalive response was received) of this message
the sending of RSTs by both hosts on the aﬀected subﬂow(s) (if possible), as a courtesy, to allow
the cleanup of middlebox state before cleaning up any local state.

SHOULD

 trigger

Address removal is undertaken according to the Address ID, so as to permit the use of NATs and
other middleboxes that rewrite source addresses. If an Address ID is not known, the receiver will
silently ignore the request.

A subﬂow that is still functioning
than using this option. For more information, see Section 3.3.3.

MUST

 be closed with a FIN exchange as in regular TCP, rather

3.5.  Fast Close

Regular TCP has the means of sending a RST signal to abruptly close a connection. With MPTCP, a
regular RST only has the scope of the subﬂow; it will only close the applicable subﬂow and will
not aﬀect the remaining subﬂows. MPTCP's connection will stay alive at the data level, in order to
permit break-before-make handover between subﬂows. It is therefore necessary to provide an
MPTCP-level "reset" to allow the abrupt closure of the whole MPTCP connection; this is done via
the MP_FASTCLOSE option.

MP_FASTCLOSE is used to indicate to the peer that the connection will be abruptly closed and no
data will be accepted anymore. The reasons for triggering an MP_FASTCLOSE are
implementation speciﬁc. Regular TCP does not allow the sending of a RST while the connection is
in a synchronized state
this state if, for example, the operating system is running out of resources. In these cases, MPTCP
should send the MP_FASTCLOSE. This option is illustrated in Figure 14.

. Nevertheless, implementations allow the sending of a RST in

[RFC0793]

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

                       1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----------------------+
  |     Kind      |    Length     |Subtype|      (reserved)       |
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----------------------+
  |                      Option Receiver's Key                    |
  |                            (64 bits)                          |
  |                                                               |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 14: Fast Close (MP_FASTCLOSE) Option

If Host A wants to force the closure of an MPTCP connection, it can do so via two options:

•

Option A (ACK): Host A sends an ACK containing the MP_FASTCLOSE option on one subﬂow,
containing the key of Host B as declared in the initial connection handshake. On all the other
subﬂows, Host A sends a regular TCP RST to close these subﬂows and tears them down. Host
A now enters FASTCLOSE_WAIT state.

•

Option R (RST): Host A sends a RST containing the MP_FASTCLOSE option on all subﬂows,
containing the key of Host B as declared in the initial connection handshake. Host A can tear
down the subﬂows and the connection immediately.

If Host A decides to force the closure by using Option A and sending an ACK with the
MP_FASTCLOSE option, the connection shall proceed as follows:

•

Upon receipt of an ACK with MP_FASTCLOSE by Host B, containing the valid key, Host B
answers on the same subﬂow with a TCP RST and tears down all subﬂows also through
sending TCP RST signals. Host B can now close the whole MPTCP connection (it transitions
directly to CLOSED state).

•

As soon as Host A has received the TCP RST on the remaining subﬂow, it can close this
subﬂow and tear down the whole connection (transition from FASTCLOSE_WAIT state to
CLOSED state). If Host A receives an MP_FASTCLOSE instead of a TCP RST, both hosts
attempted fast closure simultaneously. Host A should reply with a TCP RST and tear down the
connection.

•

If Host A does not receive a TCP RST in reply to its MP_FASTCLOSE after one retransmission
timeout (RTO) (the RTO of the subﬂow where the MP_FASTCLOSE has been sent), it
SHOULD
retransmit the MP_FASTCLOSE. To keep this connection from being retained for a long time,
the number of retransmissions
 be limited; this limit is implementation speciﬁc. A
 send a
 number is 3. If no TCP RST is received in response, Host A
RECOMMENDED
TCP RST with the MP_FASTCLOSE option itself when it releases state in order to clear any
remaining state at middleboxes.

SHOULD

SHOULD

If, however, Host A decides to force the closure by using Option R and sending a RST with the
MP_FASTCLOSE option, Host B will act as follows: upon receipt of a RST with MP_FASTCLOSE,
containing the valid key, Host B tears down all subﬂows by sending a TCP RST. Host B can now
close the whole MPTCP connection (it transitions directly to CLOSED state).

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

3.6.  Subﬂow Reset

An implementation of MPTCP may also need to send a regular TCP RST to force the closure of a
subﬂow. A host sends a TCP RST in order to close a subﬂow or reject an attempt to open a
subﬂow (MP_JOIN). In order to let the receiving host know why a subﬂow is being closed or
rejected, the TCP RST packet
this information to decide, for example, whether it tries to re-establish the subﬂow immediately,
later, or never.

 include the MP_TCPRST option (Figure 15). The host

MAY

MAY

 use

                       1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----------------------+
  |     Kind      |    Length     |Subtype|U|V|W|T|    Reason     |
  +---------------+---------------+-------+-----------------------+

Figure 15: TCP RST Reason (MP_TCPRST) Option

The MP_TCPRST option contains a reason code that allows the sender of the option to provide
more information about the reason for the termination of the subﬂow. Using 12 bits of option
space, the ﬁrst 4 bits are reserved for ﬂags (only one of which is currently deﬁned), and the
remaining octet is used to express a reason code for this subﬂow termination, from which a
receiver

 infer information about the usability of this path.

MAY

The "T" ﬂag is used by the sender to indicate whether the error condition that is reported is
Transient ("T" bit set to 1) or Permanent ("T" bit set to 0). If the error condition is considered to be
Transient by the sender of the RST segment, the recipient of this segment
a subﬂow for this connection over the failed path. The time at which a receiver may try to
re‑establish this subﬂow is implementation speciﬁc but
of the failure as deﬁned by the provided reason code. If the error condition is considered to be
 try to re‑establish a subﬂow for this
Permanent, the receiver of the RST segment
connection over this path. The "U", "V", and "W" ﬂags are not deﬁned by this speciﬁcation and are
reserved for future use. An implementation of this speciﬁcation
receiver

 take into account the properties

 set these ﬂags to 0, and a

 try to re-establish

 ignore them.

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

MAY

"Reason" is an 8-bit ﬁeld that indicates the reason code for the termination of the subﬂow. The
following codes are deﬁned in this document:

•

Unspeciﬁed error (code 0x00). This is the default error; it implies that the subﬂow is no
longer available. The presence of this option shows that the RST was generated by an MPTCP-
aware device.

•

MPTCP-speciﬁc error (code 0x01). An error has been detected in the processing of MPTCP
options. This is the usual reason code to return in the cases where a RST is being sent to close
a subﬂow because of an invalid response.

•

Lack of resources (code 0x02). This code indicates that the sending host does not have
enough resources to support the terminated subﬂow.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

•

Administratively prohibited (code 0x03). This code indicates that the requested subﬂow is
prohibited by the policies of the sending host.

•

Too much outstanding data (code 0x04). This code indicates that there is an excessive
amount of data that needs to be transmitted over the terminated subﬂow while having
already been acknowledged over one or more other subﬂows. This may occur if a path has
been unavailable for a short period and it is more eﬃcient to reset and start again than it is
to retransmit the queued data.

•

Unacceptable performance (code 0x05). This code indicates that the performance of this
subﬂow was too low compared to the other subﬂows of this Multipath TCP connection.

•

Middlebox interference (code 0x06). Middlebox interference has been detected over this
subﬂow, making MPTCP signaling invalid. For example, this may be sent if the checksum
does not validate.

3.7.  Fallback

Sometimes, middleboxes will exist on a path that could prevent the operation of MPTCP. MPTCP
has been designed to cope with many middlebox modiﬁcations (see Section 6), but there are still
some cases where a subﬂow could fail to operate within the MPTCP requirements. Notably, these
cases are the following: the loss of MPTCP options on a path and the modiﬁcation of payload
data. If such an event occurs, it is necessary to "fall back" to the previous, safe operation. This
may be either falling back to regular TCP or removing a problematic subﬂow.

At the start of an MPTCP connection (i.e., the ﬁrst subﬂow), it is important to ensure that the path
is fully MPTCP capable and the necessary MPTCP options can reach each host. The handshake as
described in Section 3.1
 fall back to regular TCP if either of the SYN messages does not
have the MPTCP options: this is the same, and desired, behavior in the case where a host is not
MPTCP capable or the path does not support the MPTCP options. When attempting to join an
existing MPTCP connection (Section 3.2), if a path is not MPTCP capable and the MPTCP options
do not get through on the SYNs, the subﬂow will be closed according to the MP_JOIN logic.

SHOULD

There is, however, another corner case that should be addressed: the case where MPTCP options
get through on the SYN but not on regular packets. If the subﬂow is the ﬁrst subﬂow and thus all
data in ﬂight is contiguous, this situation can be resolved by using the following rules:

•

MUST

 include a DSS option with Data Sequence Mapping in every segment until one
A sender
of the sent segments has been acknowledged with a DSS option containing a Data ACK. Upon
reception of the acknowledgment, the sender has the conﬁrmation that the DSS option
passes in both directions and may choose to send fewer DSS options than once per segment.

•

If, however, an ACK is received for data (not just for the SYN) without a DSS option
containing a Data ACK, the sender determines that the path is not MPTCP capable. In the case
of this occurring on an additional subﬂow (i.e., one started with MP_JOIN), the host
close the subﬂow with a RST, which
a "Middlebox interference" reason code.

 contain an MP_TCPRST option (Section 3.6) with

SHOULD

MUST

•

In the case of such an ACK being received on the ﬁrst subﬂow (i.e., that started with
MP_CAPABLE), before any additional subﬂows are added, the implementation
MUST
of MPTCP mode and fall back to regular TCP. The sender will send one ﬁnal Data Sequence

 drop out

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Mapping, with the Data-Level Length value of 0 indicating an inﬁnite mapping (to inform the
other end in case the path drops options in one direction only), and then revert to sending
data on the single subﬂow without any MPTCP options.

•

If a subﬂow breaks during operation, e.g., if it is rerouted and MPTCP options are no longer
permitted, then once this is detected (by the subﬂow-level receive buﬀer ﬁlling up, since
there is no mapping available in order to DATA_ACK this data), the subﬂow
treated as broken and closed with a RST, since no data can be delivered to the application
 include the MP_TCPRST
layer and no fallback signal can be reliably sent. This RST
SHOULD
option (Section 3.6) with a "Middlebox interference" reason code.

SHOULD

 be

These rules should cover all cases where such a failure could happen -- whether it's on the
forward or reverse path and whether the server or the client ﬁrst sends data.

So far, this section has discussed the loss of MPTCP options, either initially or during the course
of the connection. As described in Section 3.3, each portion of data for which there is a mapping
is protected by a checksum, if checksums have been negotiated. This mechanism is used to detect
if middleboxes have made any adjustments to the payload (added, removed, or changed data). A
checksum will fail if the data has been changed in any way. The use of a checksum will also
detect whether the length of data on the subﬂow is increased or decreased, and this means the
Data Sequence Mapping is no longer valid. The sender no longer knows what subﬂow-level
sequence number the receiver is genuinely operating at (the middlebox will be faking ACKs in
return), and it cannot signal any further mappings. Furthermore, in addition to the possibility of
payload modiﬁcations that are valid at the application layer, it is possible that such modiﬁcations
could be triggered across MPTCP segment boundaries, corrupting the data. Therefore, all data
from the start of the segment that failed the checksum onward is not trustworthy.

Note that if checksum usage has not been negotiated, this fallback mechanism cannot be used
unless there is some higher-layer or lower‑layer signal to inform the MPTCP implementation that
the payload has been tampered with.

When multiple subﬂows are in use, the data in ﬂight on a subﬂow will likely involve data that is
not contiguously part of the connection-level stream, since segments will be spread across the
multiple subﬂows. Due to the problems identiﬁed above, it is not possible to determine what
adjustments have been done to the data (notably, any changes to the subﬂow sequence
numbering). Therefore, it is not possible to recover the subﬂow, and the aﬀected subﬂow must be
immediately closed with a RST that includes an MP_FAIL option (Figure 16), which deﬁnes the
data sequence number at the start of the segment (deﬁned by the Data Sequence Mapping) that
had the checksum failure. Note that the MP_FAIL option requires the use of the full 64-bit
sequence number, even if 32-bit sequence numbers are normally in use in the DSS signals on the
path.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

                       1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +---------------+---------------+-------+----------------------+
  |     Kind      |   Length=12   |Subtype|      (reserved)      |
  +---------------+---------------+-------+----------------------+
  |                                                              |
  |                 Data Sequence Number (8 octets)              |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 16: Fallback (MP_FAIL) Option

The receiver of this option
Failed data
3.3.6).

MUST NOT

MUST

 discard all data following the data sequence number speciﬁed.

 be DATA_ACKed and so will be retransmitted on other subﬂows (Section

A special case is when there is a single subﬂow and it fails with a checksum error. If it is known
that all unacknowledged data in ﬂight is contiguous (which will usually be the case with a single
subﬂow), an inﬁnite mapping can be applied to the subﬂow without the need to close it ﬁrst,
essentially turning oﬀ all further MPTCP signaling. In this case, if a receiver identiﬁes a
checksum failure when there is only one path, it will send back an MP_FAIL option on the
subﬂow-level ACK, referring to the data-level sequence number of the start of the segment on
which the checksum error was detected. The sender will receive this information and, if all
unacknowledged data in ﬂight is contiguous, will signal an inﬁnite mapping. This inﬁnite
mapping will be a DSS option (Section 3.3) on the ﬁrst new packet, containing a Data Sequence
Mapping that acts retroactively, referring to the start of the subﬂow sequence number of the
most recent segment that was known to be delivered intact (i.e., was successfully DATA_ACKed).
From that point onward, data can be altered by a middlebox without aﬀecting MPTCP, as the data
stream is equivalent to a regular, legacy TCP session. While in theory paths may only be damaged
in one direction -- and the MP_FAIL signal aﬀects only one direction of traﬃc -- for simplicity of
implementation, the receiver of an MP_FAIL
 also respond with an MP_FAIL in the reverse
MUST
direction and entirely revert to a regular TCP session.

MUST

 close the subﬂow with a RST with MP_FAIL. The receiver

In the rare case that the data is not contiguous (which could happen when there is only one
subﬂow but it is retransmitting data from a subﬂow that has recently been uncleanly closed), the
receiver
that follows the data sequence number speciﬁed. The sender
subﬂow belonging to the same connection and, if it chooses to do so,
the single subﬂow in single-path mode by setting an inﬁnite Data Sequence Mapping. This
mapping will begin from the data-level sequence number that was declared in the MP_FAIL.

 attempt to create a new

 immediately place

 discard all data

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

After a sender signals an inﬁnite mapping, it
This is because Data ACKs may become misaligned with the subﬂow ACKs when middleboxes
insert or delete data. The receiver
mapping.

 stop generating Data ACKs after it receives an inﬁnite

 only use subﬂow ACKs to clear its send buﬀer.

SHOULD

MUST

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

When a connection has fallen back with an inﬁnite mapping, only one subﬂow can send data;
otherwise, the receiver would not know how to reorder the data. In practice, this means that all
MPTCP subﬂows will have to be terminated except one. Once MPTCP falls back to regular TCP, it
MUST NOT

 revert to MPTCP later in the connection.

It should be emphasized that MPTCP is not attempting to prevent the use of middleboxes that
want to adjust the payload. An MPTCP-aware middlebox could provide such functionality by also
rewriting checksums.

3.8.  Error Handling

In addition to the fallback mechanism described above, the standard classes of TCP errors may
need to be handled in an MPTCP‑speciﬁc way. Note that changing semantics -- such as the
relevance of a RST -- are covered in Section 4. Where possible, we do not want to deviate from
regular TCP behavior.

The following list covers possible errors and the appropriate MPTCP behavior:

•

Unknown token in MP_JOIN (or HMAC failure in MP_JOIN ACK, or missing MP_JOIN in SYN/
ACK response): send RST (analogous to TCP's behavior on an unknown port)

•

DSN out of window (during normal operation): drop the data; do not send Data ACKs

•

Remove request for unknown Address ID: silently ignore

3.9.  Heuristics

There are a number of heuristics that are needed for performance or deployment but that are
not required for protocol correctness. In this section, we detail such heuristics. Note that
discussions of buﬀering and certain sender and receiver window behaviors are presented in
Sections 3.3.4 and 3.3.5, and retransmission is discussed in Section 3.3.6.

3.9.1.  Port Usage

SHOULD

Under typical operation, an MPTCP implementation
are already in use. In other words, the destination port of a SYN containing an MP_JOIN option
 be the same as the remote port of the ﬁrst subﬂow in the connection. The local port for
SHOULD
 also be the same as the port for the ﬁrst subﬂow (and as such, an
such SYNs
implementation
may be cases where this is infeasible. This strategy is intended to maximize the probability of the
SYN being permitted by a ﬁrewall or NAT at the recipient and to avoid confusing any network-
monitoring software.

 reserve ephemeral ports across all local IP addresses), although there

 use the same ports as the ports that

SHOULD

SHOULD

There may also be cases, however, where a host wishes to signal that a speciﬁc port should be
used; this facility is provided in the ADD_ADDR option as documented in Section 3.4.1. It is
therefore feasible to allow multiple subﬂows between the same two addresses but using diﬀerent
port pairs, and such a facility could be used to allow load balancing within the network based on
5-tuples (e.g., some ECMP implementations
[RFC2992]

).

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

3.9.2.  Delayed Subﬂow Start and Subﬂow Symmetry

Many TCP connections are short-lived and consist only of a few segments, and so the overhead of
using MPTCP outweighs any beneﬁts. A heuristic is required, therefore, to decide when to start
using additional subﬂows in an MPTCP connection. Experimental deployments have shown that
MPTCP can be applied in a range of scenarios, so an implementation will likely need to take into
account such factors as the type of traﬃc being sent and the duration of the session; this
information

 be signaled by the application layer.

MAY

However, for standard TCP traﬃc, a suggested general-purpose heuristic that an implementation
MAY

 choose to employ is as follows.

If a host has data buﬀered for its peer (which implies that the application has received a request
for data), the host opens one subﬂow for each initial window's worth of data that is buﬀered.

Consideration should also be given to limiting the rate of adding new subﬂows, as well as
limiting the total number of subﬂows open for a particular connection. A host may choose to
vary these values based on its load or knowledge of traﬃc and path characteristics.

Note that this heuristic alone is probably insuﬃcient. Traﬃc for many common applications,
such as downloads, is highly asymmetric, and the host that is multihomed may well be the client
that will never ﬁll its buﬀers and thus never use MPTCP according to this heuristic. Advanced
APIs that allow an application to signal its traﬃc requirements would aid in these decisions.

An additional time-based heuristic could be applied, opening additional subﬂows after a given
period of time has passed. This would alleviate the above issue and also provide resilience for
low‑bandwidth but long-lived applications.

Another issue is that both communicating hosts may simultaneously try to set up a subﬂow
between the same pair of addresses. This leads to an ineﬃcient use of resources.

If the same ports are used on all subﬂows, as recommended above, then standard TCP
simultaneous-open logic should take care of this situation and only one subﬂow will be
established between the address pairs. However, this relies on the same ports being used at both
end hosts. If a host does not support TCP simultaneous open, it is
element of randomization be applied to the time to wait before opening new subﬂows, so that
only one subﬂow is created between a given address pair. If, however, hosts signal additional
ports to use (for example, for leveraging ECMP on-path), this heuristic is not appropriate.

RECOMMENDED

 that some

This section has shown some of the factors that an implementer should consider when
developing MPTCP heuristics, but it is not intended to be prescriptive.

3.9.3.  Failure Handling

Requirements for MPTCP's handling of unexpected signals are given in Section 3.8. There are
other failure cases, however, where hosts can choose appropriate behavior.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

 fall back to trying regular TCP SYNs after
For example, Section 3.1 suggests that a host
one or more failures of MPTCP SYNs for a connection. A host may keep a system-wide cache of
such information, so that it can back oﬀ from using MPTCP, ﬁrstly for that particular destination
host and, eventually, on a whole interface, if MPTCP connections continue to fail. The duration of
such a cache would be implementation speciﬁc.

SHOULD

MUST

Another failure could occur when the MP_JOIN handshake fails. Section 3.8 speciﬁes that an
incorrect handshake
 lead to the subﬂow being closed with a RST. A host operating an active
intrusion-detection system may choose to start blocking MP_JOIN packets from the source host if
multiple failed MP_JOIN attempts are seen. From the connection initiator's point of view, if an
MP_JOIN fails, it
lifetime of the connection, unless the other host refreshes the information with another
ADD_ADDR option. Note that the ADD_ADDR option is informational only and does not guarantee
that the other host will attempt a connection.

 attempt to connect to the same IP address and port during the

SHOULD NOT

In addition, an implementation may learn, over a number of connections, that certain interfaces
or destination addresses consistently fail and may default to not trying to use MPTCP for such
interfaces or addresses. The behavior of subﬂows that perform particularly badly or subﬂows
that regularly fail during use could also be learned, so that an implementation can temporarily
choose not to use these paths.

4.  Semantic Issues

In order to support multipath operation, the semantics of some TCP components have changed.
To help clarify, this section lists these semantic changes as a point of reference.

Sequence number:

The (in-header) TCP sequence number is speciﬁc to the subﬂow. To allow the

receiver to reorder application data, an additional data-level sequence space is used. In this
data‑level sequence space, the initial SYN and the ﬁnal DATA_FIN occupy 1 octet of sequence
space. This is done to ensure that these signals are acknowledged at the connection level.
There is an explicit mapping of data sequence space to subﬂow sequence space, which is
signaled through TCP options in data packets.

ACK:

The ACK ﬁeld in the TCP header acknowledges only the subﬂow sequence number -- not

the data-level sequence space. Implementations
acknowledgment from the subﬂow ACKs. This separates subﬂow-level and connection-level
processing at an end host.

 attempt to infer a data-level

SHOULD NOT

MUST NOT

A duplicate ACK that includes any MPTCP signaling (with the exception of the

Duplicate ACK:
DSS option)
aware entities mistakenly interpreting duplicate ACKs as a signal of congestion, MPTCP
SHOULD NOT
row.

 send more than two duplicate ACKs containing (non-DSS) MPTCP signals in a

 be treated as a signal of congestion. To limit the chances of non-MPTCP-

Receive Window:

The receive window in the TCP header indicates the amount of free buﬀer

space for the whole data-level connection (as opposed to the amount of space for this subﬂow)
that is available at the receiver. The semantics are the same as for regular TCP, but to

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

maintain these semantics the receive window must be interpreted at the sender as relative to
the sequence number given in the DATA_ACK rather than the subﬂow ACK in the TCP header.
In this way, the original role of ﬂow control is preserved. Note that some middleboxes may
change the receive window, and so a host
 use the maximum value of those recently
SHOULD
seen on the constituent subﬂows for the connection-level receive window and also needs to
maintain a subﬂow-level window for subﬂow-level processing.

FIN:

The FIN ﬂag in the TCP header applies only to the subﬂow it is sent on -- not to the whole

connection. For connection-level FIN semantics, the DATA_FIN option is used.

RST:

The RST ﬂag in the TCP header applies only to the subﬂow it is sent on -- not to the whole
connection. The MP_FASTCLOSE option provides the Fast Close functionality of a RST at the
MPTCP connection level.

Address List:

Address list management (i.e., knowledge of the local and remote hosts' lists of

available IP addresses) is handled on a per-connection basis (as opposed to per subﬂow, per
host, or per pair of communicating hosts). This permits the application of per-connection local
policy. Adding an address to one connection (either explicitly through an ADD_ADDR message
or implicitly through an MP_JOIN) has no implications for other connections between the
same pair of hosts.

5-tuple:

The 5-tuple (protocol, local address, local port, remote address, remote port) presented
by kernel APIs to the application layer in a non-multipath-aware application is that of the ﬁrst
subﬂow, even if the subﬂow has since been closed and removed from the connection. This
decision, and other related API issues, are discussed in more detail in

[RFC6897]

.

5.  Security Considerations

[RFC6181]

As identiﬁed in
of new classes of threats. In order to prevent these threats,
requirements for a security solution for MPTCP. The fundamental goal is for the security of
MPTCP to be "no worse" than regular TCP today. The key security requirements are as follows:

, the addition of multipath capability to TCP will bring with it a number

 presents a set of

[RFC6182]

•

Provide a mechanism to conﬁrm that the parties in a subﬂow handshake are the same as the
parties in the original connection setup.

•

Provide veriﬁcation that the peer can receive traﬃc at a new address before using it as part
of a connection.

•

Provide replay protection, i.e., ensure that a request to add /remove a subﬂow is "fresh".

In order to achieve these goals, MPTCP includes a hash-based handshake algorithm, as
documented in Sections 3.1 and 3.2.

The security of the MPTCP connection hangs on the use of keys that are shared once at the start
of the ﬁrst subﬂow and are never sent again over the network (unless used in the Fast Close
mechanism (Section 3.5)). To ease demultiplexing while not giving away any cryptographic
material, future subﬂows use a truncated cryptographic hash of this key as the connection
identiﬁcation "token". The keys are concatenated and used as keys for creating Hash-based

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Message Authentication Codes (HMACs) used on subﬂow setup, in order to verify that the parties
in the handshake are the same as the parties in the original connection setup. It also provides
veriﬁcation that the peer can receive traﬃc at this new address. Replay attacks would still be
possible when only keys are used; therefore, the handshakes use single-use random numbers
(nonces) at both ends -- this ensures that the HMAC will never be the same on two handshakes.
Guidance on generating random numbers suitable for use as keys is given in
 and
discussed in Section 3.1. The nonces are valid for the lifetime of the TCP connection attempt.
[RFC7430]
.
HMAC is also used to secure the ADD_ADDR option, due to the threats identiﬁed in

[RFC4086]

The use of crypto capability bits in the initial connection handshake to negotiate the use of a
particular algorithm allows the deployment of additional crypto mechanisms in the future. This
negotiation would nevertheless be susceptible to a bid-down attack by an on-path active attacker
who could modify the crypto capability bits in the response from the receiver to use a less secure
crypto mechanism. The security mechanism presented in this document should therefore protect
against all forms of ﬂooding and hijacking attacks discussed in

.
[RFC6181]

The version negotiation speciﬁed in Section 3.1, if diﬀering MPTCP versions shared a common
negotiation format, would allow an on-path attacker to apply a theoretical bid-down attack. Since
the v1 and v0 protocols have a diﬀerent handshake, such an attack would require that the client
re-establish the connection using v0 and that the server support v0. Note that an on-path attacker
would have access to the raw data, negating any other TCP-level security mechanisms. As also
noted in Appendix E, this document speciﬁes the removal of the AddrID ﬁeld
 in the
MP_PRIO option (Section 3.3.8). This change eliminates the possibility of a theoretical attack
where a subﬂow could be placed in "backup" mode by an attacker.

[RFC6824]

During normal operation, regular TCP protection mechanisms (such as ensuring that sequence
numbers are in-window) will provide the same level of protection against attacks on individual
TCP subﬂows as the level of protection that exists for regular TCP today. Implementations will
introduce additional buﬀers compared to regular TCP, to reassemble data at the connection level.
The application of window sizing will minimize the risk of denial-of-service attacks consuming
resources.

As discussed in Section 3.4.1, a host may advertise its private addresses, but these might point to
diﬀerent hosts in the receiver's network. The MP_JOIN handshake (Section 3.2) will ensure that
this does not succeed in setting up a subﬂow to the incorrect host. However, it could still create
unwanted TCP handshake traﬃc. This feature of MPTCP could be a target for denial-of-service
exploits, with malicious participants in MPTCP connections encouraging the recipient to target
other hosts in the network. Therefore, implementations should consider heuristics (Section 3.9)
at both the sender and receiver to reduce the impact of this.

To further protect against malicious ADD_ADDR messages sent by an oﬀ-path attacker, the
ADD_ADDR includes an HMAC using the keys negotiated during the handshake. This eﬀectively
prevents an attacker from diverting an MPTCP connection through an oﬀ-path ADD_ADDR
injection into the stream.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

A small security risk could theoretically exist with key reuse, but in order to accomplish a replay
attack, both the sender and receiver keys, and the sender and receiver random numbers, in the
MP_JOIN handshake (Section 3.2) would have to match.

While this speciﬁcation deﬁnes a "medium" security solution, meeting the criteria speciﬁed at the
start of this section and in the threat analysis document
worse, it is likely that a future version of MPTCP would need to be able to support stronger
security. There are several ways the security of MPTCP could potentially be improved; some of
these would be compatible with MPTCP as deﬁned in this document, while others may not be.
For now, the best approach is to gain experience with the current approach, establish what might
work, and check that the threat analysis is still accurate.

, since attacks only ever get

[RFC6181]

Possible ways of improving MPTCP security could include:

•

deﬁning a new MPTCP cryptographic algorithm, as negotiated in MP_CAPABLE. If an
implementation was being deployed in a controlled environment where additional
assumptions could be made, such as the ability for the servers to store state during the TCP
handshake, then it may be possible to use a stronger cryptographic algorithm than would
otherwise be possible.

•

deﬁning how to secure data transfer with MPTCP, while not changing the signaling part of
the protocol.

•

deﬁning security that requires more option space, perhaps in conjunction with a "long
options" proposal for extending the TCP option space (such as those surveyed in
perhaps building on the current approach with a second stage of security based on MPTCP
options.

[TCPLO]

), or

•

revisiting the working group's decision to exclusively use TCP options for MPTCP signaling
and instead looking at the possibility of using TCP payloads as well.

MPTCP has been designed with several methods available to indicate a new security mechanism,
including:

•

available ﬂags in MP_CAPABLE (Figure 4).

•

available subtypes in the MPTCP option (Figure 3).

•

the Version ﬁeld in MP_CAPABLE (Figure 4).

6.  Interactions with Middleboxes

Multipath TCP was designed to be deployable in the present world. Its design takes into account
"reasonable" existing middlebox behavior. In this section, we outline a few representative
middlebox-related failure scenarios and show how Multipath TCP handles them. Next, we list the
design decisions Multipath TCP has made to accommodate the diﬀerent middleboxes.

A primary concern is our use of a new TCP option. Middleboxes should forward packets with
unknown options unchanged, yet there are some that don't. We expect these middleboxes to strip
options and pass the data, drop packets with new options, copy the same option into multiple
segments (e.g., when doing segmentation), or drop options during segment coalescing.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

MPTCP uses a single new TCP option called "Kind", and all message types are deﬁned by
"subtype" values (see Section 7). This should reduce the chances of only some types of MPTCP
options being passed; instead, the key diﬀering characteristics are diﬀerent paths and the
presence of the SYN ﬂag.

MPTCP SYN packets on the ﬁrst subﬂow of a connection contain the MP_CAPABLE option (Section
3.1). If this is dropped, MPTCP
option (Section 3.2) are dropped, the paths will simply not be used.

 fall back to regular TCP. If packets with the MP_JOIN

SHOULD

If a middlebox strips options but otherwise passes the packets unchanged, MPTCP will behave
safely. If an MP_CAPABLE option is dropped on either the outgoing path or the return path, the
initiating host can fall back to regular TCP, as illustrated in Figure 17 and discussed in Section 3.1.

             Host A                              Host B
               |              Middlebox M            |
               |                   |                 |
               | SYN (MP_CAPABLE)  |        SYN      |
               |-------------------|---------------->|
               |                SYN/ACK              |
               |<------------------------------------|
           a) MP_CAPABLE option stripped on outgoing path

             Host A                                Host B
               |           SYN (MP_CAPABLE)            |
               |-------------------------------------->|
               |             Middlebox M               |
               |                  |                    |
               |    SYN/ACK       |SYN/ACK (MP_CAPABLE)|
               |<-----------------|--------------------|
           b) MP_CAPABLE option stripped on return path

Figure 17: Connection Setup with Middleboxes That Strip Options from Packets

Subﬂow SYNs contain the MP_JOIN option. If this option is stripped on the outgoing path, the SYN
will appear to be a regular SYN to Host B. Depending on whether there is a listening socket on the
target port, Host B will reply with either a SYN/ACK or a RST (subﬂow connection fails). When
Host A receives the SYN/ACK, it sends a RST because the SYN/ACK does not contain the MP_JOIN
option and its token. Either way, the subﬂow setup fails but otherwise does not aﬀect the MPTCP
connection as a whole.

We now examine data ﬂow with MPTCP, assuming that the ﬂow is correctly set up, which implies
that the options in the SYN packets were allowed through by the relevant middleboxes. If options
are allowed through and there is no resegmentation or coalescing to TCP segments, Multipath
TCP ﬂows can proceed without problems.

The case when options get stripped on data packets is discussed in Section 3.7. If only some
MPTCP options are stripped, behavior is not deterministic. If some Data Sequence Mappings are
lost, the connection can continue so long as mappings exist for the subﬂow-level data (e.g., if
multiple maps have been sent that reinforce each other). If some subﬂow-level space is left
unmapped, however, the subﬂow is treated as broken and is closed, using the process described

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

in Section 3.7. MPTCP should survive with a loss of some Data ACKs, but performance will
degrade as the fraction of stripped options increases. We do not expect such cases to appear in
practice, though: most middleboxes will either strip all options or let them all through.

We end this section with a list of middlebox classes, their behavior, and the elements in the
MPTCP design that allow operation through such middleboxes. Issues surrounding dropping
packets with options or stripping options were discussed above and are not included here:

•

[RFC3022]

NATs (Network Address (and port) Translators)
often the source port) of packets. This means that a host will not know its public-facing
address for signaling in MPTCP. Therefore, MPTCP permits implicit address addition via the
MP_JOIN option, and the handshake mechanism ensures that connection attempts to private
addresses
hosts. Explicit address removal is undertaken by an Address ID to allow no knowledge of the
source address.

, since they are authenticated, will only set up subﬂows to the correct

 change the source address (and

[RFC1918]

•

 might proactively ACK data to increase
Performance Enhancing Proxies (PEPs)
[RFC3135]
performance. MPTCP, however, relies on accurate congestion control signals from the end
host, and non‑MPTCP-aware PEPs will not be able to provide such signals. MPTCP will,
therefore, fall back to single-path TCP or close the problematic subﬂow (see Section 3.7).

•

[norm]

 may not allow holes in sequence numbers, and they may cache
Traﬃc normalizers
packets and retransmit the same data. MPTCP looks like standard TCP on the wire and will
not retransmit diﬀerent data on the same subﬂow sequence number. In the event of a
retransmission, the same data will be retransmitted on the original TCP subﬂow even if it is
additionally retransmitted at the connection level on a diﬀerent subﬂow.

•

[RFC2979]

Firewalls
 might perform Initial Sequence Number (ISN) randomization on TCP
connections. MPTCP uses relative sequence numbers in Data Sequence Mappings to cope
with this. Like NATs, ﬁrewalls will not permit many incoming connections, so MPTCP
supports address signaling (ADD_ADDR) so that a multiaddressed host can invite its peer
behind the ﬁrewall/NAT to connect out to its additional interface.

•

Intrusion Detection Systems / Intrusion Prevention Systems (IDSs /IPSs) observe packet
streams for patterns and content that could threaten a network. MPTCP may require the
instrumentation of additional paths, and an MPTCP-aware IDS or IPS would need to read
MPTCP tokens to correlate data from multiple subﬂows to maintain comparable visibility
into all of the traﬃc between devices. Without such changes, an IDS would get an incomplete
view of the traﬃc, increasing the risk of missing traﬃc of interest (false negatives) and
increasing the chances of erroneously identifying a subﬂow as a risk due to only seeing
partial data (false positives).

•

Application-level middleboxes such as content-aware ﬁrewalls may alter the payload within
a subﬂow -- for example, rewriting URIs in HTTP traﬃc. MPTCP will detect such changes
using the checksum and close the aﬀected subﬂow(s), if there are other subﬂows that can be
used. If all subﬂows are aﬀected, MPTCP will fall back to TCP, allowing such middleboxes to
change the payload. MPTCP-aware middleboxes should be able to adjust the payload and
MPTCP metadata in order not to break the connection.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

In addition, all classes of middleboxes may aﬀect TCP traﬃc in the following ways:

•

TCP options may be removed, or packets with unknown options dropped, by many classes of
middleboxes. It is intended that the initial SYN exchange, with a TCP option, will be suﬃcient
to identify the path's capabilities. If such a packet does not get through, MPTCP will end up
falling back to regular TCP.

•

Segmentation/coalescing (e.g., TCP segmentation oﬄoading) might copy options between
packets and might strip some options. MPTCP's Data Sequence Mapping includes the relative
subﬂow sequence number instead of using the sequence number in the segment. In this way,
the mapping is independent of the packets that carry it.

•

The receive window may be shrunk by some middleboxes at the subﬂow level. MPTCP will
use the maximum window at the data level but will also obey subﬂow-speciﬁc windows.

7.  IANA Considerations

This document obsoletes
. As such, IANA has updated several registries to point to this
document. In addition, this document creates one new registry. These topics are described in the
following subsections.

[RFC6824]

7.1.  TCP Option Kind Numbers

IANA has updated the "TCP Option Kind Numbers" registry to point to this document for
Multipath TCP, as shown in Table 1:

Kind

Length

Meaning

Reference

30

N

Multipath TCP (MPTCP)

RFC 8684

Table 1: TCP Option Kind Numbers

7.2.  MPTCP Option Subtypes

The 4-bit MPTCP subtype in the "MPTCP Option Subtypes" subregistry under the "Transmission
Control Protocol (TCP) Parameters" registry was deﬁned in
Experimental RFC and not a Standards Track RFC, and since no further entries have occurred
beyond those pointing to
Table 2 and with the following explanatory note.

, IANA has replaced the existing registry with the contents of

[RFC6824]

[RFC6824]

[RFC6824]

. Since

 is an

Note: This registry speciﬁes the MPTCP Option Subtypes for MPTCP v1, which obsoletes the
Experimental MPTCP v0. For the MPTCP v0 subtypes, please refer to

[RFC6824]

.

Value

Symbol

Name

Reference

0x0

MP_CAPABLE

Multipath Capable

RFC 8684, Section
3.1

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Value

Symbol

Name

Reference

0x1

0x2

MP_JOIN

Join Connection

RFC 8684, Section
3.2

DSS

Data Sequence Signal (Data ACK and
Data Sequence Mapping)

RFC 8684, Section
3.3

0x3

ADD_ADDR

Add Address

0x4

REMOVE_ADDR

Remove Address

0x5

0x6

MP_PRIO

Change Subﬂow Priority

MP_FAIL

Fallback

0x7

MP_FASTCLOSE

Fast Close

0x8

MP_TCPRST

Subﬂow Reset

0xf

MP_EXPERIMENTAL

Reserved for Private Use

Table 2: MPTCP Option Subtypes

RFC 8684, Section
3.4.1

RFC 8684, Section
3.4.2

RFC 8684, Section
3.3.8

RFC 8684, Section
3.7

RFC 8684, Section
3.5

RFC 8684, Section
3.6

Values 0x9 through 0xe are currently unassigned. Option 0xf is reserved for use by private
experiments. Its use may be formalized in a future speciﬁcation. Future assignments in this
registry are to be deﬁned by Standards Action as deﬁned by
the MPTCP subtype's symbolic name, its associated value, and a reference to its speciﬁcation.

. Assignments consist of

[RFC8126]

7.3.  MPTCP Handshake Algorithms

The "MPTCP Handshake Algorithms" subregistry under the "Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
Parameters" registry was deﬁned in
 is an Experimental RFC and not
a Standards Track RFC, and since no further entries have occurred beyond those pointing to
, IANA has replaced the existing registry with the contents of Table 3 and with the
[RFC6824]
following explanatory note.

[RFC6824]

[RFC6824]

. Since

Note: This registry speciﬁes the MPTCP Handshake Algorithms for MPTCP v1, which obsoletes the
Experimental MPTCP v0. For the MPTCP v0 subtypes, please refer to

[RFC6824]

.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Flag
Bit

A

B

C

D-G

H

Meaning

Reference

Checksum required

Extensibility

RFC 8684, Section
3.1

RFC 8684, Section
3.1

Do not attempt to establish new subﬂows to the source
address.

RFC 8684, Section
3.1

Unassigned

HMAC-SHA256

RFC 8684, Section
3.2

Table 3: MPTCP Handshake Algorithms

Note that the meanings of bits "D" through "H" can be dependent upon bit "B", depending on how
the Extensibility parameter is deﬁned in future speciﬁcations; see Section 3.1 for more
information.

Future assignments in this registry are also to be deﬁned by Standards Action as deﬁned by
[RFC8126]
a reference to its speciﬁcation.

. Assignments consist of the value of the ﬂags, a symbolic name for the algorithm, and

7.4.  MP_TCPRST Reason Codes

IANA has created a further subregistry, "MPTCP MP_TCPRST Reason Codes" under the
"Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) Parameters" registry, based on the reason code in the
MP_TCPRST (Section 3.6) message. Initial values for this registry are given in Table 4; future
assignments are to be deﬁned by Speciﬁcation Required as deﬁned by
consist of the value of the code, a short description of its meaning, and a reference to its
speciﬁcation. The maximum value is 0xﬀ.

[RFC8126]

. Assignments

Code

0x00

0x01

0x02

Meaning

Reference

Unspeciﬁed error

RFC 8684, Section 3.6

MPTCP-speciﬁc error

RFC 8684, Section 3.6

Lack of resources

RFC 8684, Section 3.6

0x03

Administratively prohibited

RFC 8684, Section 3.6

0x04

Too much outstanding data

RFC 8684, Section 3.6

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Code

Meaning

Reference

0x05

Unacceptable performance

RFC 8684, Section 3.6

0x06

Middlebox interference

RFC 8684, Section 3.6

Table 4: MPTCP MP_TCPRST Reason Codes

As guidance to the designated expert
unless codepoint space is becoming scarce, provided that there is a clear distinction from other,
already-existing codes and also provided that there is suﬃcient guidance for implementers both
sending and receiving these codes.

, assignments should not normally be refused

[RFC8126]

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC0793]

[RFC2104]

[RFC2119]

[RFC5961]

[RFC6234]

[RFC8174]

,
Postel, J. "Transmission Control Protocol" STD 7 RFC 793 DOI 10.17487/
, September 1981,
RFC0793

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc793>

.

,

,

,

Krawczyk, H., Bellare, M., and R. Canetti "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message
Authentication" RFC 2104 DOI 10.17487/RFC2104
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2104>

, February 1997,

<https://

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Ramaiah, A., Stewart, R., and M. Dalal "Improving TCP's Robustness to Blind In-
Window Attacks" RFC 5961 DOI 10.17487/RFC5961
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5961>

, August 2010,

<https://

.

,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. and T. Hansen "US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and SHA-
based HMAC and HKDF)" RFC 6234 DOI 10.17487/RFC6234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6234>

, May 2011,

.

,

,

,

<https://

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

8.2.  Informative References

[deployments]

[howhard]

Bonaventure, O. and S. Seo "Multipath TCP Deployments" IETF Journal 2016
November 2016,

<https://www.ietfjournal.org/multipath-tcp-deployments/>

,

,

.

,

Raiciu, C., Paasch, C., Barre, S., Ford, A., Honda, M., Duchene, F., Bonaventure, O.,
and M. Handley "How Hard Can It Be? Designing and Implementing a
Deployable Multipath TCP" Usenix Symposium on Networked Systems Design

,

,

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

and Implementation 2012
nsdi12/technical-sessions/presentation/raiciu>

, April 2012,

.

<https://www.usenix.org/conference/

[norm]

[RFC1122]

[RFC1918]

[RFC2018]

[RFC2979]

[RFC2992]

[RFC3022]

[RFC3135]

[RFC4086]

[RFC4987]

[RFC5681]

[RFC6181]

[RFC6182]

Handley, M., Paxson, V., and C. Kreibich "Network Intrusion Detection: Evasion,
,
Traﬃc Normalization, and End-to-End Protocol Semantics" Usenix Security
Symposium 2001
<https://www.usenix.org/legacy/events/sec01/
full_papers/handley/handley.pdf>

, August 2001,

,

.

,

Braden, R., Ed. "Requirements for Internet Hosts - Communication Layers" STD
3 RFC 1122 DOI 10.17487/RFC1122
,
info/rfc1122>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, October 1989,

,

,

.

Rekhter, Y., Moskowitz, B., Karrenberg, D., de Groot, G. J., and E. Lear "Address
,
Allocation for Private Internets" BCP 5 RFC 1918 DOI 10.17487/RFC1918
February 1996,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1918>

,

,

.

,

,

Mathis, M., Mahdavi, J., Floyd, S., and A. Romanow "TCP Selective
Acknowledgment Options" RFC 2018 DOI 10.17487/RFC2018
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2018>

,

,

.

,

, October 1996,

,
Freed, N. "Behavior of and Requirements for Internet Firewalls" RFC 2979 DOI
10.17487/RFC2979

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2979>

, October 2000,

,
.

,

,
Hopps, C. "Analysis of an Equal-Cost Multi-Path Algorithm" RFC 2992 DOI
10.17487/RFC2992

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2992>

, November 2000,

,

,

.

Srisuresh, P. and K. Egevang "Traditional IP Network Address Translator
(Traditional NAT)" RFC 3022 DOI 10.17487/RFC3022
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3022>

, January 2001,

,
,

,

.

<https://

Border, J., Kojo, M., Griner, J., Montenegro, G., and Z. Shelby "Performance
Enhancing Proxies Intended to Mitigate Link-Related Degradations" RFC 3135
DOI 10.17487/RFC3135

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3135>

, June 2001,

,

.

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D., Schiller, J., and S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, June 2005,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

,
Eddy, W. "TCP SYN Flooding Attacks and Common Mitigations" RFC 4987 DOI
10.17487/RFC4987

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4987>

, August 2007,

,

Allman, M., Paxson, V., and E. Blanton "TCP Congestion Control" RFC 5681 DOI
.
10.17487/RFC5681

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5681>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

Bagnulo, M. "Threat Analysis for TCP Extensions for Multipath Operation with
Multiple Addresses" RFC 6181 DOI 10.17487/RFC6181
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6181>

, March 2011,

<https://

,

,

.

Ford, A., Raiciu, C., Handley, M., Barre, S., and J. Iyengar "Architectural
Guidelines for Multipath TCP Development" RFC 6182 DOI 10.17487/RFC6182
March 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6182>

,
.

,

,

,

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

[RFC6356]

[RFC6528]

[RFC6824]

[RFC6897]

[RFC7323]

[RFC7413]

[RFC7430]

[RFC8041]

[RFC8126]

[TCPLO]

Raiciu, C., Handley, M., and D. Wischik "Coupled Congestion Control for
Multipath Transport Protocols" RFC 6356 DOI 10.17487/RFC6356
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6356>

,
.

,

, October 2011,

Gont, F. and S. Bellovin "Defending against Sequence Number Attacks" RFC
,
6528 DOI 10.17487/RFC6528
rfc6528>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2012,

.

,

,

Ford, A., Raiciu, C., Handley, M., and O. Bonaventure "TCP Extensions for
Multipath Operation with Multiple Addresses" RFC 6824 DOI 10.17487/RFC6824
January 2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6824>

,
.

,

,

,

Scharf, M. and A. Ford "Multipath TCP (MPTCP) Application Interface
,
Considerations" RFC 6897 DOI 10.17487/RFC6897
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6897>

, March 2013,

,

.

,

<https://

Borman, D., Braden, B., Jacobson, V., and R. Scheﬀenegger, Ed. "TCP Extensions
for High Performance" RFC 7323 DOI 10.17487/RFC7323
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7323>

, September 2014,

,

,

.

,

Cheng, Y., Chu, J., Radhakrishnan, S., and A. Jain "TCP Fast Open" RFC 7413 DOI
10.17487/RFC7413

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7413>

, December 2014,

.

,

,

Bagnulo, M., Paasch, C., Gont, F., Bonaventure, O., and C. Raiciu "Analysis of
,
Residual Threats and Possible Fixes for Multipath TCP (MPTCP)" RFC 7430 DOI
10.17487/RFC7430

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7430>

, July 2015,

,

.

,

,
Bonaventure, O., Paasch, C., and G. Detal "Use Cases and Operational Experience
with Multipath TCP" RFC 8041 DOI 10.17487/RFC8041
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8041>

, January 2017,

<https://

,

,

.

,
Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

,

Ramaiah, A. "TCP option space extension" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-ananth-tcpm-tcpoptext-00
ananth-tcpm-tcpoptext-00>

, 26 March 2012,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-

.

,

,

Appendix A.  Notes on Use of TCP Options

The TCP option space is limited due to the length of the Data Oﬀset ﬁeld in the TCP header (4
bits), which deﬁnes the TCP header length in 32-bit words. With the standard TCP header being
20 bytes, this leaves a maximum of 40 bytes for options, and many of these may already be used
by options such as timestamp and SACK.

We performed a brief study on the commonly used TCP options in SYN, data, and pure ACK
packets and found that there is enough room to ﬁt all the options discussed in this document.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

SYN packets typically include the following options: Maximum Segment Size (MSS) (4 bytes),
window scale (3 bytes), SACK permitted (2 bytes), and timestamp (10 bytes). The sum of these
options is 19 bytes. Some operating systems appear to pad each option up to a word boundary,
thus using 24 bytes (a brief survey suggests that Windows XP and Mac OS X do this, whereas
Linux does not). Optimistically, therefore, we have 21 bytes available, or 16 if options have to be
word-aligned. In either case, however, the SYN versions of MP_CAPABLE (12 bytes) and MP_JOIN
(12 or 16 bytes) will ﬁt in this remaining space.

Note that due to the use of a 64-bit data-level sequence space, it is feasible that MPTCP will not
require the timestamp option for protection against wrapped sequence numbers (per the
Protection Against Wrapped Sequences (PAWS) mechanism, as described in
data-level sequence space has far less chance of wrapping. Conﬁrmation of the validity of this
optimization is left for further study.

[RFC7323]

), since the

TCP data packets typically carry timestamp options in every packet, taking 10 bytes (or 12, with
padding). That leaves 30 bytes (or 28, if word-aligned). The DSS option varies in length,
depending on (1) whether the Data Sequence Mapping, DATA_ACK, or both are included,
(2) whether the sequence numbers in use are 4 or 8 octets, and (3) whether the checksum is
present. The maximum size of the DSS option is 28 bytes, so even that will ﬁt in the available
space. But unless a connection is both bidirectional and high-bandwidth, it is unlikely that all
that option space will be required on each DSS option.

Within the DSS option, it is not necessary to include the Data Sequence Mapping and DATA_ACK
in each packet, and in many cases it may be possible to alternate their presence (so long as the
mapping covers the data being sent in the subsequent packet). It would also be possible to
alternate between 4-byte and 8-byte sequence numbers in each option.

On subﬂow and connection setup, an MPTCP option is also set on the third packet (an ACK).
These are 20 bytes (for MP_CAPABLE) and 24 bytes (for MP_JOIN), both of which will ﬁt in the
available option space.

Pure ACKs in TCP typically contain only timestamps (10 bytes). Here, Multipath TCP typically
needs to encode only the DATA_ACK (maximum of 12 bytes). Occasionally, ACKs will contain
SACK information. Depending on the number of lost packets, SACK may utilize the entire option
space. If a DATA_ACK had to be included, then it is probably necessary to reduce the number of
SACK blocks to accommodate the DATA_ACK. However, the presence of the DATA_ACK is unlikely
to be necessary in a case where SACK is in use, since until at least some of the SACK blocks have
been retransmitted, the cumulative data-level ACK will not be moving forward (or if it does, due
to retransmissions on another path, then that path can also be used to transmit the new
DATA_ACK).

The ADD_ADDR option can be between 16 and 30 bytes, depending on (1) whether IPv4 or IPv6 is
used and (2) whether or not the port number is present. It is unlikely that such signaling would
ﬁt in a data packet (although if there is space, it is ﬁne to include it). It is recommended that
duplicate ACKs not be used with any other payload or options, in order to transmit these rare
signals. Note that this is the reason for mandating that duplicate ACKs with MPTCP options not be
taken as a signal of congestion.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Appendix B.  TCP Fast Open and MPTCP

TCP Fast Open (TFO) is an experimental TCP extension, described in
introduced to allow the sending of data one RTT earlier than with regular TCP. This is considered
a valuable gain, as very short connections are very common, especially for HTTP request/
response schemes. It achieves this by sending the SYN segment together with the application's
data and allowing the listener to reply immediately with data after the SYN/ACK.
secures this mechanism by using a new TCP option that includes a cookie that is negotiated in a
preceding connection.

, which has been

[RFC7413]

[RFC7413]

When using TFO in conjunction with MPTCP, there are two key points to take into account, as
detailed below.

B.1.  TFO Cookie Request with MPTCP

When a TFO initiator ﬁrst connects to a listener, it cannot immediately include data in the SYN
for security reasons
connections. This is done with the TCP cookie request/response options, of 2 bytes and 6-18 bytes,
respectively (depending on the chosen cookie length).

. Instead, it requests a cookie that will be used in subsequent

[RFC7413]

TFO and MPTCP can be combined, provided that the total length of all the options does not
exceed the maximum 40 bytes possible in TCP:

•

In the SYN: MPTCP uses a 4-byte MP_CAPABLE option. The sum of the MPTCP and TFO
options is 6 bytes. With typical TCP options using up to 19 bytes in the SYN (24 bytes if
options are padded at a word boundary), there is enough space to combine the MP_CAPABLE
with the TFO cookie request.

•

In the SYN + ACK: MPTCP uses a 12-byte MP_CAPABLE option, but now the TFO option can be
as long as 18 bytes. Since the maximum option length may be exceeded, it is up to the
listener to avoid this problem by using a shorter cookie. As an example, if we consider that
19 bytes are used for classical TCP options, the maximum possible cookie length would be 7
bytes. Note that, for the SYN packet, the same limitation applies to subsequent connections
(because the initiator then echoes the cookie back to the listener). Finally, if the security
impact of reducing the cookie size is not deemed acceptable, the listener can reduce the
amount of space used by other TCP options by omitting the TCP timestamps (as outlined in
Appendix A).

B.2.  Data Sequence Mapping under TFO

In the TCP establishment phase, MPTCP uses a key exchange that is used to generate the Initial
Data Sequence Numbers (IDSNs). In particular, the SYN with MP_CAPABLE occupies the ﬁrst octet
of data sequence space. With TFO, one way to handle the data sent together with the SYN would
be to consider an implicit DSS mapping that covers that SYN segment (since there is not enough
space in the SYN to include a DSS option). The problem with that approach is that if a middlebox

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 60

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

modiﬁes the TFO data, this will not be noticed by MPTCP because of the absence of a DSS
checksum. For example, a TCP‑aware (but not MPTCP-aware) middlebox could insert bytes at the
beginning of the stream and adapt the TCP checksum and sequence numbers accordingly. With
an implicit mapping, this information would give to the initiator and listener a diﬀerent view of
the DSS mapping; there would be no way to detect this inconsistency, because the DSS checksum
is not present.

To solve this issue, the TFO data must not be considered part of the data sequence number space:
the SYN with MP_CAPABLE still occupies the ﬁrst octet of data sequence space, but then the ﬁrst
non-TFO data byte occupies the second octet. This guarantees that, if the use of the DSS checksum
is negotiated, all data in the data sequence number space is checksummed. We also note that this
does not entail a loss of functionality, because TFO data is always only sent on the initial subﬂow,
before any attempt to create additional subﬂows.

B.3.  Connection Establishment Examples

A few examples of possible "TFO + MPTCP" establishment scenarios are shown below.

Before an initiator can send data together with the SYN, it must request a cookie from the
listener, as shown in Figure 18. (Note: The sequence number and length are annotated in Figure
18 as Seq(Length) (e.g., "S. 0(0)") and used as such in the subsequent ﬁgures (e.g., "S  0(20)" in
Figure 19).) This is done by simply combining the TFO and MPTCP options.

initiator                                                    listener
    |                                                           |
    |   S Seq=0(Length=0) <MP_CAPABLE>, <TFO cookie request>    |
    | --------------------------------------------------------> |
    |                                                           |
    |   S. 0(0) ack 1 <MP_CAPABLE>, <TFO cookie>                |
    | <-------------------------------------------------------- |
    |                                                           |
    |   .  0(0) ack 1 <MP_CAPABLE>                              |
    | --------------------------------------------------------> |
    |                                                           |

Figure 18: Cookie Request

Once this is done, the received cookie can be used for TFO, as shown in Figure 19. In this
example, the initiator ﬁrst sends 20 bytes in the SYN. The listener immediately replies with 100
bytes following the SYN-ACK, to which the initiator replies with 20 more bytes. Note that the last
segment in the ﬁgure has a TCP sequence number of 21, while the DSS subﬂow sequence number
is 1 (because the TFO data is not part of the data sequence number space, as explained in
Appendix B.2.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 61

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

initiator                                                    listener
    |                                                           |
    |    S  0(20) <MP_CAPABLE>, <TFO cookie>                    |
    | --------------------------------------------------------> |
    |                                                           |
    |    S. 0(0) ack 21 <MP_CAPABLE>                            |
    | <-------------------------------------------------------- |
    |                                                           |
    |    .  1(100) ack 21 <DSS ack=1 seq=1 ssn=1 dlen=100>      |
    | <-------------------------------------------------------- |
    |                                                           |
    |    .  21(0) ack 1 <MP_CAPABLE>                            |
    | --------------------------------------------------------> |
    |                                                           |
    |    .  21(20) ack 101 <DSS ack=101 seq=1 ssn=1 dlen=20>    |
    | --------------------------------------------------------> |
    |                                                           |

Figure 19: The Listener Supports TFO

In Figure 20, the listener does not support TFO. The initiator detects that no state is created in the
listener (as no data is ACKed) and now sends the MP_CAPABLE in the third packet, in order for
the listener to build its MPTCP context at the end of the establishment. Now, the TFO data, when
retransmitted, becomes part of the Data Sequence Mapping because it is eﬀectively sent (in fact
re‑sent) after the establishment.

initiator                                                    listener
    |                                                           |
    |    S  0(20) <MP_CAPABLE>, <TFO cookie>                    |
    | --------------------------------------------------------> |
    |                                                           |
    |    S. 0(0) ack 1 <MP_CAPABLE>                             |
    | <-------------------------------------------------------- |
    |                                                           |
    |    .  1(0) ack 1 <MP_CAPABLE>                             |
    | --------------------------------------------------------> |
    |                                                           |
    |    .  1(20) ack 1 <DSS ack=1 seq=1 ssn=1 dlen=20>         |
    | --------------------------------------------------------> |
    |                                                           |
    |    .  0(0) ack 21 <DSS ack=21 seq=1 ssn=1 dlen=0>         |
    | <-------------------------------------------------------- |
    |                                                           |

Figure 20: The Listener Does Not Support TFO

It is also possible that the listener acknowledges only part of the TFO data, as illustrated in Figure
21. The initiator will simply retransmit the missing data together with a DSS mapping.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 62

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

initiator                                                    listener
    |                                                           |
    |    S  0(1000) <MP_CAPABLE>, <TFO cookie>                  |
    | --------------------------------------------------------> |
    |                                                           |
    |    S. 0(0) ack 501 <MP_CAPABLE>                           |
    | <-------------------------------------------------------- |
    |                                                           |
    |    .  501(0) ack 1 <MP_CAPABLE>                           |
    | --------------------------------------------------------> |
    |                                                           |
    |    .  501(500) ack 1 <DSS ack=1 seq=1 ssn=1 dlen=500>     |
    | --------------------------------------------------------> |
    |                                                           |

Figure 21: Partial Data Acknowledgment

Appendix C.  Control Blocks

Conceptually, an MPTCP connection can be represented as an MPTCP protocol control block (PCB)
that contains several variables that track the progress and the state of the MPTCP connection and
a set of linked TCP control blocks that correspond to the subﬂows that have been established.

[RFC0793]

RFC 793
terminology as RFC 793 to describe the state variables that are maintained by MPTCP.

 speciﬁes several state variables. Whenever possible, we reuse the same

C.1.  MPTCP Control Block

The MPTCP control block contains the following variables per connection.

C.1.1.  Authentication and Metadata

Local.Token (32 bits):

This is the token chosen by the local host on this MPTCP connection. The

token must be unique among all established MPTCP connections and is generated from the
local key.

Local.Key (64 bits):

This is the key sent by the local host on this MPTCP connection.

Remote.Token (32 bits):

This is the token chosen by the remote host on this MPTCP connection,

generated from the remote key.

Remote.Key (64 bits):

This is the key chosen by the remote host on this MPTCP connection.

MPTCP.Checksum (ﬂag):

This ﬂag is set to true if at least one of the hosts has set the "A" bit in the
MP_CAPABLE options exchanged during connection establishment; otherwise, it is set to false.
If this ﬂag is set, the checksum must be computed in all DSS options.

C.1.2.  Sending Side

SND.UNA (64 bits):

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 63

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

This is the data sequence number of the next byte to be acknowledged, at the MPTCP
connection level. This variable is updated upon reception of a DSS option containing a
DATA_ACK.

SND.NXT (64 bits):

This is the data sequence number of the next byte to be sent. SND.NXT is

used to determine the value of the DSN in the DSS option.

SND.WND (32 bits):

This is the send window.  32 bits if the features in RFC 7323 are used; 16 bits

otherwise. MPTCP maintains the send window at the MPTCP connection level, and the same
window is shared by all subﬂows. All subﬂows use the MPTCP connection-level SND.WND to
compute the SEQ.WND value that is sent in each transmitted segment.

C.1.3.  Receiving Side

RCV.NXT (64 bits):

This is the data sequence number of the next byte that is expected on the

MPTCP connection. This state variable is modiﬁed upon reception of in-order data. The value
of RCV.NXT is used to specify the DATA_ACK that is sent in the DSS option on all subﬂows.

RCV.WND (32 bits):

This is the connection-level receive window, which is the maximum of the
RCV.WND on all the subﬂows.  32 bits if the features in RFC 7323 are used; 16 bits otherwise.

C.2.  TCP Control Blocks

The MPTCP control block also contains a list of the TCP control blocks that are associated with the
MPTCP connection.

Note that the TCP control block on the TCP subﬂows does not contain the RCV.WND and SND.WND
state variables, as these are maintained at the MPTCP connection level and not at the subﬂow
level.

Inside each TCP control block, the following state variables are deﬁned.

C.2.1.  Sending Side

SND.UNA (32 bits):

This is the sequence number of the next byte to be acknowledged on the

subﬂow. This variable is updated upon reception of each TCP acknowledgment on the
subﬂow.

SND.NXT (32 bits):

This is the sequence number of the next byte to be sent on the subﬂow.

SND.NXT is used to set the value of SEG.SEQ upon transmission of the next segment.

C.2.2.  Receiving Side

RCV.NXT (32 bits):

This is the sequence number of the next byte that is expected on the subﬂow.

This state variable is modiﬁed upon reception of in-order segments. The value of RCV.NXT is
copied to the SEG.ACK ﬁeld of the next segments transmitted on the subﬂow.

RCV.WND (32 bits):

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 64

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

This is the subﬂow-level receive window that is updated with the window ﬁeld from the
segments received on this subﬂow.  32 bits if the features in RFC 7323 are used; 16 bits
otherwise.

Appendix D.  Finite State Machine

The diagram in Figure 22 shows the Finite State Machine for connection-level closure. This
illustrates how the DATA_FIN connection-level signal (indicated in the diagram as the DFIN ﬂag
on a DATA_ACK) (1) interacts with subﬂow-level FINs and (2) permits break-before-make
handover between subﬂows.

                             +---------+
                             | M_ESTAB |
                             +---------+
                    M_CLOSE    |     |    rcv DATA_FIN
                     -------   |     |    -------
+---------+       snd DATA_FIN /       \ snd DATA_ACK[DFIN] +-------+
|  M_FIN  |<-----------------           ------------------->|M_CLOSE|
| WAIT-1  |---------------------------                      |  WAIT |
+---------+               rcv DATA_FIN \                    +-------+
  | rcv DATA_ACK[DFIN]         ------- |                   M_CLOSE |
  | --------------        snd DATA_ACK |                   ------- |
  | CLOSE all subflows                 |              snd DATA_FIN |
  V                                    V                           V
+-----------+              +-----------+                 +----------+
|M_FINWAIT-2|              | M_CLOSING |                 |M_LAST-ACK|
+-----------+              +-----------+                 +----------+
  |              rcv DATA_ACK[DFIN] |           rcv DATA_ACK[DFIN] |
  | rcv DATA_FIN     -------------- |               -------------- |
  |  -------     CLOSE all subflows |           CLOSE all subflows |
  | snd DATA_ACK[DFIN]              V            delete MPTCP PCB  V
  \                          +-----------+                 +--------+
    ------------------------>|M_TIME WAIT|---------------->|M_CLOSED|
                             +-----------+                 +--------+
                                        All subflows in CLOSED
                                            ------------
                                        delete MPTCP PCB

Figure 22: Finite State Machine for Connection Closure

Appendix E.  Changes from RFC 6824

This appendix lists the key technical changes between
this document, which obsoletes
not backward compatible with

[RFC6824]
.
[RFC6824]

, which speciﬁes MPTCP v0; and
 and speciﬁes MPTCP v1. Note that this speciﬁcation is

[RFC6824]

•

This document incorporates lessons learned from the various implementations,
deployments, and experiments gathered in the documents "Use Cases and Operational
Experience with Multipath TCP"
 and the IETF Journal article "Multipath TCP
Deployments"

[deployments]

[RFC8041]

.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 65

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

•

[RFC6824]

Connection initiation, through the exchange of the MP_CAPABLE MPTCP option, is diﬀerent
from
option on the SYN to be shorter in length and to avoid duplicating the sending of keying
material.

. The SYN no longer includes the initiator's key, to allow the MP_CAPABLE

•

This also ensures reliable delivery of the key on the MP_CAPABLE option by allowing its
transmission to be combined with data and thus using TCP's built-in reliability mechanism. If
the initiator does not immediately have data to send, the MP_CAPABLE option with the keys
will be repeated on the ﬁrst data packet. If the other end is the ﬁrst to send, then the
presence of the DSS option implicitly conﬁrms the receipt of the MP_CAPABLE.

•

In the Flags ﬁeld of MP_CAPABLE, "C" is now assigned to mean that the sender of this option
will not accept additional MPTCP subﬂows to the source address and port. This improves
eﬃciency -- for example, in cases where the sender is behind a strict NAT.

•

In the Flags ﬁeld of MP_CAPABLE, "H" now indicates the use of HMAC-SHA256 (rather than
HMAC-SHA1).

•

Connection initiation also deﬁnes the procedure for version negotiation, for
implementations that support both v0

 and v1 (this document).

[RFC6824]

•

The HMAC-SHA256 (rather than HMAC-SHA1) algorithm is used, as it provides better
security. It is used to generate the token in the MP_JOIN and ADD_ADDR messages and to set
the IDSN.

•

A new subﬂow-level option exists to signal reasons for sending a RST on a subﬂow
(MP_TCPRST (Section 3.6)); this can help an implementation decide whether to attempt later
reconnection.

•

The MP_PRIO option (Section 3.3.8), which is used to signal a change of priority for a subﬂow,
no longer includes the AddrID ﬁeld. Its purpose was to allow the changed priority to be
applied on a subﬂow other than the one it was sent on. However, it was determined that this
could be used by a man-in-the-middle to divert all traﬃc onto its own path, and MP_PRIO
does not include a token or other type of security mechanism.

•

The ADD_ADDR option (Section 3.4.1), which is used to inform the other host about another
potential address, is diﬀerent in several ways. It now includes an HMAC of the added
address, for enhanced security. In addition, reliability for the ADD_ADDR option has been
added: the IPVer ﬁeld is replaced with a ﬂag ﬁeld, and one ﬂag is assigned ("E") that is used
as an "echo" so a host can indicate that it has received the option.

•

This document describes an additional way of performing a Fast Close -- by sending an
MP_FASTCLOSE option on a RST on all subﬂows. This allows the host to tear down the
subﬂows and the connection immediately.

•

IANA has reserved the MPTCP option subtype of value 0xf for Private Use (Section 7.2). This
document doesn't deﬁne how to use that value.

•

This document adds a new appendix (Appendix B), which discusses the usage of both MPTCP
options and TFO options on the same packet.

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 66

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Acknowledgments

The authors gratefully acknowledge signiﬁcant input into this document from
and

Andrew McDonald
.

Sebastien Barre

,

,
,

Iljitsch van Beijnum Lars
The authors also wish to acknowledge reviews and contributions from
Eggert Marcelo Bagnulo Robert Hancock Pasi Sarolahti Toby Moncaster Philip Eardley Sergio
Lembo Lawrence Conroy Yoshifumi Nishida Bob Briscoe Stein Gjessing Andrew McGregor
,
Georg Hampel Anumita Biswas Wes Eddy Alexey Melnikov Francis Dupont Adrian Farrel
,
Barry Leiba Robert Sparks Sean Turner Stephen Farrell Martin Stiemerling Gregory Detal
,
Fabien Duchene Xavier de Foy Rahul Jadhav Klemens Schragel Mirja Kühlewind Sheng Jiang
,
Alissa Cooper Ines Robles Roman Danyliw Adam Roach Eric Vyncke

Ben Kaduk

, and

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Authors' Addresses

Alan Ford
Pexip
Email:

 alan.ford@gmail.com

Costin Raiciu
University Politehnica of Bucharest
Splaiul Independentei 313
Bucharest
Romania
Email:

 costin.raiciu@cs.pub.ro

Mark Handley
University College London
Gower Street
London
WC1E 6BT
United Kingdom
Email:

 m.handley@cs.ucl.ac.uk

Olivier Bonaventure
Université catholique de Louvain
Pl. Ste Barbe, 2
1348 Louvain-la-Neuve
Belgium
Email:

 olivier.bonaventure@uclouvain.be

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 67

RFC 8684

Multipath TCP

March 2020

Christoph Paasch
Apple, Inc.
Cupertino CA
,
United States of America
Email:

 cpaasch@apple.com

Ford, et al.

Standards Track

Page 68

