Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8879
Standards Track
December 2020
2070-1721
A. Ghedini
Cloudﬂare, Inc.

V. Vasiliev
Google

RFC 8879
TLS Certiﬁcate Compression

Abstract

In TLS handshakes, certiﬁcate chains often take up the majority of the bytes transmitted.

This document describes how certiﬁcate chains can be compressed to reduce the amount of data
transmitted and avoid some round trips.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8879

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Ghedini & Vasiliev

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8879

TLS Certiﬁcate Compression

December 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Notational Conventions

3.  Negotiating Certiﬁcate Compression

4.  Compressed Certiﬁcate Message

5.  Security Considerations

6.  Middlebox Compatibility

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  TLS ExtensionType Values

7.2.  TLS HandshakeType

7.3.  Compression Algorithms

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

In order to reduce latency and improve performance, it can be useful to reduce the amount of
data exchanged during a TLS handshake.

 describes a mechanism that allows a client and a server to avoid transmitting

[RFC7924]
certiﬁcates already shared in an earlier handshake, but it doesn't help when the client connects
to a server for the ﬁrst time and doesn't already have knowledge of the server's certiﬁcate chain.

This document describes a mechanism that would allow certiﬁcates to be compressed during all
handshakes.

Ghedini & Vasiliev

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8879

TLS Certiﬁcate Compression

December 2020

2.  Notational Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Negotiating Certiﬁcate Compression

This extension is only supported with TLS 1.3
earlier is negotiated, the peers

MUST

 ignore this extension.

[RFC8446]

 and newer; if TLS 1.2

[RFC5246]

 or

This document deﬁnes a new extension type (compress_certiﬁcate(27)), which can be used to
signal the supported compression formats for the Certiﬁcate message to the peer. Whenever it is
sent by the client as a ClientHello message extension (
support for compressed server certiﬁcates. Whenever it is sent by the server as a
CertiﬁcateRequest extension (
certiﬁcates.

), it indicates support for compressed client

[RFC8446], Section 4.3.2

[RFC8446], Section 4.1.2

), it indicates

By sending a compress_certiﬁcate extension, the sender indicates to the peer the certiﬁcate-
compression algorithms it is willing to use for decompression. The "extension_data" ﬁeld of this
extension

 contain a CertiﬁcateCompressionAlgorithms value:

SHALL

    enum {
        zlib(1),
        brotli(2),
        zstd(3),
        (65535)
    } CertificateCompressionAlgorithm;

    struct {
        CertificateCompressionAlgorithm algorithms<2..2^8-2>;
    } CertificateCompressionAlgorithms;

The compress_certiﬁcate extension is a unidirectional indication; no corresponding response
extension is needed.

4.  Compressed Certiﬁcate Message

If the peer has indicated that it supports compression, server and client
corresponding Certiﬁcate messages (
CompressedCertiﬁcate message (replacing the Certiﬁcate message).

Section 4.4.2 of [RFC8446]

MAY

 compress their

) and send them in the form of the

Ghedini & Vasiliev

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8879

TLS Certiﬁcate Compression

December 2020

The CompressedCertiﬁcate message is formed as follows:

    struct {
         CertificateCompressionAlgorithm algorithm;
         uint24 uncompressed_length;
         opaque compressed_certificate_message<1..2^24-1>;
    } CompressedCertificate;

algorithm:

The algorithm used to compress the certiﬁcate. The algorithm

MUST

 be one of the

algorithms listed in the peer's compress_certiﬁcate extension.

uncompressed_length:

The length of the Certiﬁcate message once it is uncompressed. If, after

decompression, the speciﬁed length does not match the actual length, the party receiving the
invalid message
this ﬁeld allows the receiver to preallocate the buﬀer for the uncompressed Certiﬁcate
message and enforce limits on the message size before performing decompression.

 abort the connection with the "bad_certiﬁcate" alert. The presence of

MUST

compressed_certiﬁcate_message:

The result of applying the indicated compression algorithm to
the encoded Certiﬁcate message that would have been sent if certiﬁcate compression was not
in use. The compression algorithm deﬁnes how the bytes in the
compressed_certiﬁcate_message ﬁeld are converted into the Certiﬁcate message.

If the speciﬁed compression algorithm is zlib, then the Certiﬁcate message
with the ZLIB compression algorithm, as deﬁned in
algorithm is brotli, the Certiﬁcate message
algorithm, as deﬁned in
message
MUST
.
[RFC8478]

[RFC7932]

[RFC1950]

MUST

 be compressed with the Zstandard compression algorithm, as deﬁned in

MUST
. If the speciﬁed compression

 be compressed

. If the speciﬁed compression algorithm is zstd, the Certiﬁcate

 be compressed with the Brotli compression

It is possible to deﬁne a certiﬁcate compression algorithm that uses a preshared dictionary to
achieve a higher compression ratio. This document does not deﬁne any such algorithms, but
additional codepoints may be allocated for such use per the policy in Section 7.3.

If the received CompressedCertiﬁcate message cannot be decompressed, the connection
terminated with the "bad_certiﬁcate" alert.

MUST

 be

If the format of the Certiﬁcate message is altered using the server_certiﬁcate_type or
client_certiﬁcate_type extensions

, the resulting altered message is compressed instead.

[RFC7250]

5.  Security Considerations

After decompression, the Certiﬁcate message
 be processed as if it were encoded without
MUST
being compressed. This way, the parsing and the veriﬁcation have the same security properties
as they would have in TLS normally.

In order for certiﬁcate compression to function correctly, the underlying compression algorithm
MUST

 output the same data that was provided as input by the peer.

Ghedini & Vasiliev

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8879

TLS Certiﬁcate Compression

December 2020

Since certiﬁcate chains are typically presented on a per-server-name or per-user basis, a
malicious application does not have control over any individual fragments in the Certiﬁcate
message, meaning that they cannot leak information about the certiﬁcate by modifying the
plaintext.

Implementations
CompressedCertiﬁcate message.

SHOULD

 bound the memory usage when decompressing the

MUST

 limit the size of the resulting decompressed chain to the speciﬁed
 abort the connection if the size of the output of the

Implementations
uncompressed length, and they
decompression function exceeds that limit. TLS framing imposes a 16777216-byte limit on the
certiﬁcate message size, and implementations
cases, they

 apply the same limit as if no compression were used.

 impose a limit that is lower than that; in both

MUST

MUST

MAY

While the Certiﬁcate message in TLS 1.3 is encrypted, third parties can draw inferences from the
message length observed on the wire. TLS 1.3 provides a padding mechanism (discussed in
Sections 5.4 and E.3 of
) to counteract such analysis. Certiﬁcate compression alters the
length of the Certiﬁcate message, and the change in length is dependent on the actual contents of
the certiﬁcate. Any padding scheme covering the Certiﬁcate message has to address compression
within its design or disable it altogether.

[RFC8446]

6.  Middlebox Compatibility

It's been observed that a signiﬁcant number of middleboxes intercept and try to validate the
Certiﬁcate message exchanged during a TLS handshake. This means that middleboxes that don't
understand the CompressedCertiﬁcate message might misbehave and drop connections that
adopt certiﬁcate compression. Because of that, the extension is only supported in the versions of
TLS where the certiﬁcate message is encrypted in a way that prevents middleboxes from
[RFC8446]
intercepting it -- that is, TLS version 1.3

 and higher.

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  TLS ExtensionType Values

IANA has created an entry, compress_certiﬁcate(27), in the "TLS ExtensionType Values" registry
(deﬁned in
"Recommended" column entry set to "Yes".

) with the values in the "TLS 1.3" column set to "CH, CR" and the

[RFC8446]

7.2.  TLS HandshakeType

IANA has created an entry, compressed_certiﬁcate(25), in the "TLS Handshake Type" registry
), with the "DTLS-OK" column value set to "Yes".
(deﬁned in

[RFC8446]

Ghedini & Vasiliev

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8879

TLS Certiﬁcate Compression

December 2020

7.3.  Compression Algorithms

This document establishes a registry of compression algorithms supported for compressing the
Certiﬁcate message, titled "TLS Certiﬁcate Compression Algorithm IDs", under the existing
"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions" registry.

The entries in the registry are:

Algorithm Number Description

Reference

0

1

2

3

Reserved

zlib

brotli

zstd

RFC 8879

RFC 8879

RFC 8879

RFC 8879

16384 to 65535

Reserved for Experimental Use

Table 1: TLS Certiﬁcate Compression Algorithm IDs

The values in this registry shall be allocated under "IETF Review" policy for values strictly
smaller than 256, under "Speciﬁcation Required" policy for values 256-16383, and under
"Experimental Use" otherwise (see
Experimental Use extensions can be used both on private networks and over the open Internet.

 for the deﬁnition of relevant policies).

[RFC8126]

The procedures for requesting values in the Speciﬁcation Required space are speciﬁed in
.
17 of [RFC8447]

Section

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC1950]

[RFC2119]

[RFC7250]

Deutsch, P. and J-L. Gailly "ZLIB Compressed Data Format Speciﬁcation version
3.3" RFC 1950 DOI 10.17487/RFC1950
info/rfc1950>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, May 1996,

,
.

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Wouters, P., Ed., Tschofenig, H., Ed., Gilmore, J., Weiler, S., and T. Kivinen "Using
Raw Public Keys in Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport
,
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 7250 DOI 10.17487/RFC7250
<https://
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7250>

, June 2014,

,

,

Ghedini & Vasiliev

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8879

TLS Certiﬁcate Compression

December 2020

[RFC7924]

[RFC7932]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8447]

[RFC8478]

Santesson, S. and H. Tschofenig "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Cached
Information Extension" RFC 7924 DOI 10.17487/RFC7924
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7924>

, July 2016,

,
.

,

,

<https://

Alakuijala, J. and Z. Szabadka "Brotli Compressed Data Format" RFC 7932 DOI
10.17487/RFC7932

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7932>

, July 2016,

,

,

.

Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

,

.

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Salowey, J. and S. Turner "IANA Registry Updates for TLS and DTLS" RFC 8447
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8447>
DOI 10.17487/RFC8447
.

, August 2018,

,

,

Collet, Y. and M. Kucherawy, Ed. "Zstandard Compression and the application/
zstd Media Type" RFC 8478 DOI 10.17487/RFC8478
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8478>

, October 2018,

<https://

,

,

.

,

8.2.  Informative References

[RFC5246]

Dierks, T. and E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
info/rfc5246>

, August 2008,

,
.

,

,

Acknowledgements

Certiﬁcate compression was originally introduced in the QUIC Crypto protocol, designed by
Adam Langley

Wan-Teh Chang
.

 and

David Benjamin Ryan
This document has beneﬁted from contributions and suggestions from
Hamilton Christian Huitema Benjamin Kaduk Ilari Liusvaara Piotr Sikora Ian Swett Martin
,
Thomson Sean Turner

, and many others.

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Alessandro Ghedini
Cloudﬂare, Inc.
Email:

 alessandro@cloudﬂare.com

Ghedini & Vasiliev

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8879

TLS Certiﬁcate Compression

December 2020

Victor Vasiliev
Google
Email:

 vasilvv@google.com

Ghedini & Vasiliev

Standards Track

Page 8

