Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8804
Standards Track
September 2020
2070-1721
O. Finkelman
Qwilt

S. Mishra
Verizon

RFC 8804
Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI)
Request Routing Extensions

Abstract

Open Caching architecture is a use case of Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) in
which the commercial Content Delivery Network (CDN) is the upstream CDN (uCDN) and the ISP
caching layer serves as the downstream CDN (dCDN). This document deﬁnes extensions to the
CDNI Metadata Interface (MI) and the Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement interface (FCI).
These extensions are derived from requirements raised by Open Caching but are also applicable
to CDNI use cases in general.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8804

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

1.2.  Requirements Language

2.  Redirect Target Capability

2.1.  DNS Redirect Target

2.2.  HTTP Redirect Target

2.3.  Properties of Redirect Target Capability Object

2.4.  DnsTarget Object

2.4.1.  DnsTarget Example

2.5.  HttpTarget Object

2.5.1.  HttpTarget Example

2.6.  Usage Example

3.  Fallback Target Server Address

3.1.  Properties of Fallback Target Generic Metadata Object

3.2.  Usage Example

3.3.  uCDN Addressing Considerations

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  CDNI Payload Types

4.1.1.  CDNI FCI RedirectTarget Payload Type

4.1.2.  CDNI MI FallbackTarget Payload Type

5.  Security Considerations

5.1.  Conﬁdentiality and Privacy

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[SVA]

[OCWG]

 of the Streaming Video Alliance

 is a global association that works to solve streaming video

The Streaming Video Alliance
challenges in an eﬀort to improve end-user experience and adoption. The Open Caching Working
Group
delivery requests from commercial CDNs to a caching layer at the ISP's network. Open Caching
architecture is a speciﬁc use case of CDNI where the commercial CDN is the upstream CDN
(uCDN) and the ISP caching layer is the downstream CDN (dCDN). The Open Caching Request
Routing Functional Speciﬁcation
that are required for its provisioning. This document deﬁnes the CDNI metadata object
and the CDNI Footprint and Capabilities object
Request Routing:

 deﬁnes the Request Routing process and the interfaces

 is focused on the delegation of video

 that are required for Open Caching

[RFC8008]

[OC-RR]

[RFC8006]

[SVA]

•

Redirect Target Capability (for dCDN advertising redirect target address)

•

Fallback Target Metadata (for uCDN conﬁguring fallback target address)

This document also registers CDNI Payload Types

[RFC7736]

 for these deﬁned objects.

For consistency with other CDNI documents, this document follows the CDNI convention of uCDN
(upstream CDN) and dCDN (downstream CDN) to represent the commercial CDN and ISP caching
layer, respectively.

1.1.  Terminology

The following terms are used throughout this document:

FQDN

Fully Qualiﬁed Domain Name

CDN

Content Delivery Network

Additionally, this document reuses the terminology deﬁned in
[RFC8007]

. Speciﬁcally, we use the following CDNI acronyms:

[RFC8008]

, and

,

[RFC6707] [RFC7336] [RFC8006]

,

,

FCI

MI

Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement interface (see

[RFC8008]

)

Metadata Interface (see

[RFC8006]

)

uCDN

Upstream CDN (see

[RFC7336]

)

dCDN

Downstream CDN (see

[RFC7336]

)

RT

Redirection Target. Endpoint for redirection from uCDN to dCDN.

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

RR

Request Router. An element responsible for routing user requests, typically using HTTP
redirect or DNS CNAME, depending on the use case.

1.2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Redirect Target Capability

Iterative CDNI Request Redirection is deﬁned in
examples in Sections 3.2 and 3.4 of
[RFC7975]

 for Recursive Request Redirection as:

[RFC7336]

Section 1.1 of [RFC7336]

 and elaborated by

. A Redirection Target (RT) is deﬁned in

Section 2 of

The endpoint to which the User Agent is redirected. In CDNI, an RT may point to a
number of diﬀerent components, some examples include a surrogate in the same CDN
as the request router, a request router in a dCDN, or a surrogate in a dCDN.

In this document, we adopt the same deﬁnition of the RT for the Iterative Request Redirect use
case. This use case requires the provisioning of the RT address to be used by the uCDN in order to
redirect to the dCDN. RT addresses can vary between diﬀerent footprints (for example, between
diﬀerent regions), and they may also change over time (for example, as a result of network
problems). Given this variable and dynamic nature of the redirect target address, it may not be
suitable to advertise it during bootstrap. A more dynamic and footprint-oriented interface is
required.
Following this suggestion, we have therefore chosen to use the CDNI Footprint & Capabilities
Advertisement interface for redirect target address advertisement.

 suggests that it could be one of the roles of the FCI

Section 4.3 of [RFC7336]

.
[RFC8008]

Use cases:

•

Footprint: The dCDN may want to have a diﬀerent target per footprint. Note that a dCDN may
spread across multiple geographies. This makes it easier to route client requests to a nearby
request router. Though this can be achieved using a single canonical name and "Geo DNS",
such that in diﬀerent geographies the same hostname is resolved to diﬀerent IP address, that
approach has limitations; for example, a client may be using a third-party DNS resolver,
making it impossible for the redirector to detect where the client is located, or Geo DNS
granularity may be too rough for the requirement of the application.

•

Scaling: The dCDN may choose to scale its Request Routing service by deploying more
request routers in new locations and advertise them via an updatable interface like the FCI.

The Redirect Target capability object is used to indicate the target address the uCDN should use
in order to redirect a client to the dCDN. A target may be attached to a speciﬁc uCDN host,
attached to a list of uCDN hosts, or used globally for all the hosts of the uCDN.

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

MUST

When a dCDN is attaching the redirect target to a speciﬁc uCDN host or a list of uCDN hosts, the
dCDN
In this case, the uCDN can redirect to that dCDN address, only if the User Agent request was to
one of these uCDN hosts.

 advertise the hosts within the Redirect Target capability object as "redirecting-hosts".

If the Redirect Target capability object does not contain a target or the target is empty, the uCDN
 interpret it as "no target available for these uCDN hosts for the speciﬁed footprint". In case
MUST
such a target was already advertised in a previous FCI object, the uCDN
update that deletes the previous redirect target.

 interpret it as an

MUST

2.1.  DNS Redirect Target

[RFC1034]

[RFC7871]

) of the uCDN DNS router. Note that DNS routers make routing decisions based on

A redirect target for DNS redirection is an FQDN used as an alias in a CNAME record response
(see
either the DNS resolver's IP address or the client IP subnet when EDNS0 client-subnet (ECS) is
). The dCDN may choose to advertise redirect targets and footprints to cover
used (see
both cases, such that the uCDN resolution would route the DNS query to diﬀerent dCDN CNAMEs
according to client subnet or dCDN resolver IP address. This method further allows the dCDN
DNS to optimize the resolution by localizing the target CNAMEs. A uCDN implementation
 prefer routing based on client IP subnet when the ECS option is present. A dCDN
SHOULD
implementation using the ECS option
 be aware of the privacy drawbacks listed in
of [RFC7871]

 follow the guidelines provided in

.
Section 11.1 of [RFC7871]

SHOULD

MUST

 and

Section 2

2.2.  HTTP Redirect Target

A redirect target for HTTP redirection is the URI to be used as the value for the Location header
of an HTTP redirect 3xx response, typically a 302 (Found) (see
Section 6.4 of [RFC7231]

Section 7.1.2 of [RFC7231]

 and

).

2.3.  Properties of Redirect Target Capability Object

The Redirect Target capability object consists of the following properties:

Property:

redirecting-hosts

Description:
host
Section 4.1.2 of [RFC8006]

SHOULD

.

One or more uCDN hosts to which this redirect target is attached. A redirecting
 be a host that was published in a HostMatch object by the uCDN as deﬁned in

Type:

A list of Endpoint objects (see

Section 4.3.3 of [RFC8006]

)

No. If absent or empty, the redirect target applies to all hosts of the

Mandatory-to-Specify:
redirecting uCDN.

Property:

dns-target

Description:

Target CNAME record for DNS redirection.

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

Type:

DnsTarget object (see Section 2.4)

Mandatory-to-Specify:

No. If the dns-target is absent or empty, the uCDN
available".

MUST

 interpret it as "no dns-target

Property:

http-target

Description:

Target URI for an HTTP redirect.

Type:

HttpTarget object (see Section 2.5)

Mandatory-to-Specify:

No. If the http-target is absent or empty, the uCDN
available".

MUST

 interpret it as "no http-target

The following is an example of a Redirect Target capability object serialization that advertises a
dCDN target address that is attached to a speciﬁc list of uCDN "redirecting-hosts". A uCDN host
that is included in that list can redirect to the advertised dCDN redirect target. The capabilities
object is serialized as a JSON object as deﬁned in

.
Section 5.1 of [RFC8008]

{
  "capabilities": [
    {
      "capability-type": "FCI.RedirectTarget",
      "capability-value": {
          "redirecting-hosts": [
             "a.service123.ucdn.example.com",
             "b.service123.ucdn.example.com"
          ],
          "dns-target": {
             "host": "service123.ucdn.dcdn.example.com"
          },
          "http-target": {
              "host": "us-east1.dcdn.example.com",
              "path-prefix": "/cache/1/",
              "include-redirecting-host": true
          }
      },
      "footprints": [
          <Footprint objects>
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

2.4.  DnsTarget Object

The DnsTarget object gives the target address for the DNS response to delegate from the uCDN to
the dCDN.

Property:

host

Description:

The host property is a hostname or an IP address, without a port number.

Type:

Endpoint object as deﬁned in

Section 4.3.3 of [RFC8006]

, with the limitation that it

SHOULD NOT
ignore it.

 include a port number and, in case a port number is present, the uCDN

MUST

Mandatory-to-Specify:

Yes.

2.4.1.  DnsTarget Example

The following is an example of the DnsTarget object:

{
   "host": "service123.ucdn.dcdn.example.com"
}

The following is an example of a DNS query for uCDN address "a.service123.ucdn.example.com"
and the corresponding CNAME redirection response:

Query:
a.service123.ucdn.example.com:
type A, class IN

Response:
NAME: a.service123.ucdn.example.com, TYPE: CNAME, CLASS: IN,
TTL: 120, RDATA: service123.ucdn.dcdn.example.com

2.5.  HttpTarget Object

The HttpTarget object gives the necessary information to construct the target Location URI for
HTTP redirection.

Property:

host

Description:

Hostname or IP address and an optional port, i.e., the host and port of the

authority component of the URI as described in

Section 3.2 of [RFC3986]

.

Type:

Endpoint object as deﬁned in

Section 4.3.3 of [RFC8006]

.

Mandatory-to-Specify:

Yes.

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

Property:

scheme

Description:

A URI scheme to be used in the redirect response location construction. When

present, the uCDN

MUST

 use the provided scheme in for HTTP redirection to the dCDN.

Type:

A URI scheme as deﬁned in

Section 3.1 of [RFC3986]

, represented as a JSON string. The

scheme

MUST

 be either "http" or "https".

Mandatory-to-Specify:

No. If this property is absent or empty, the uCDN request router

MUST

use the same scheme as was used in the original request before redirection.

Property:

path-preﬁx

Description:

A path preﬁx for the HTTP redirect Location header. The original path is

appended after this preﬁx.

Type:

A preﬁx of a path-absolute as deﬁned in

Section 3.3 of [RFC3986]

. The preﬁx

MUST

 end

with a trailing slash to indicate the end of the last path segment in the preﬁx.

Mandatory-to-Specify:

No. If this property is absent or empty, the uCDN

path-preﬁx to the original content path, i.e., the original path
URI right after the authority component.

MUST

Property:

include-redirecting-host

MUST NOT

 prepend a
 appear in the Location

Description:

A ﬂag indicating whether or not to include the redirecting host as the ﬁrst path

segment after the path-preﬁx. If set to true and a "path-preﬁx" is used, the uCDN
redirecting host
before the original URL path. If set to true and there is no path-preﬁx, the uCDN
redirecting host

 be prepended as the ﬁrst path segment in the redirect URL.

 be added as a separate path segment after the path-preﬁx and

MUST

MUST

Type:

Boolean.

Mandatory-to-Specify:

No. Default value is False.

2.5.1.  HttpTarget Example

The following is an example of the HttpTarget object with a "scheme", a "path-preﬁx", and
"include-redirecting-host" properties:

{
   "host": "us-east1.dcdn.example.com",
   "scheme": "https",
   "path-prefix": "/cache/1/",
   "include-redirecting-host": true
}

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

The following is an example of an HTTP request for content at uCDN host
"a.service123.ucdn.example.com" and the corresponding HTTP response with a Location header,
used for redirecting the client to the dCDN, constructed according to the HttpTarget object from
the above example:

Request:
GET /vod/1/movie.mp4 HTTP/1.1
Host: a.service123.ucdn.example.com

Response:
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: https://us-east1.dcdn.example.com/cache/1/
a.service123.ucdn.example.com/vod/1/movie.mp4

2.6.  Usage Example

Before requests can be routed from the uCDN to the dCDN, the CDNs must exchange service
conﬁgurations between them. Using the MI, the uCDN advertises out-of-band its hosts to the
dCDN; each host is designated by a hostname and has its own speciﬁc metadata (see
of [RFC8006]
deﬁned in Section 2.3 for the relevant uCDN hosts. The following is a generalized example of the
message ﬂow between a uCDN and a dCDN. For simplicity, we focus on the sequence of messages
between the uCDN and dCDN and not on how they are passed.

). Using the FCI, the dCDN advertises (also out-of-band) the redirect target address

Section 4.1.2

  dCDN                                                    uCDN
    +                                                       +
    |                                                       |
(1) | MI:  host: s123.ucdn.example.com                      |
    |      host-metadata: < metadata >                      |
    <-------------------------------------------------------+
    |                                                       |
(2) | FCI:  capability-type: FCI.RedirectTarget             |
    |       redirecting-hosts: s123.ucdn.example.com        |
    |       target host: us-east1.dcdn.example.com          |
    +------------------------------------------------------->
    |                                                       |
    |                                                       |
    +                                                       +

Figure 1: Redirect Target Address Advertisement

Explanation:

(1)

(2)

The uCDN advertises a host (s123.ucdn.example.com) with the host metadata.

The dCDN advertises its FCI objects to the uCDN, including a Redirect Target capability
object that contains the redirect target address (us-east1.dcdn.example.com) speciﬁed for
that uCDN host.

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

Once the redirect target has been set, the uCDN can start redirecting user requests to the dCDN.
The following is a generic sequence of redirection using the host and redirect target that were
advertised in Figure 1.

End User                  dCDN                   uCDN RR
    +                       +                       +
    |                       |                       |
(1) | Request sent s123.ucdn.example.com            |
    +-----------------------+----------------------->
    |                       |                       |
(2) | Redirect to us-east1.dcdn.example.com         |
    <-----------------------+-----------------------+
    |                       |                       |
(3) | Request us-east1.dcdn.example.com             |
    +----------------------->                       |
    |                       |                       |
(4) | Response              |                       |
    <-----------------------+                       |
    |                       |                       |
    +                       +                       +

Figure 2: Generic Request Redirection Sequence

Explanation:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

The End User sends a request (DNS or HTTP) to the uCDN Request Router (RR).

Using the previously advertised Redirect Target, the uCDN redirects the request to the
dCDN.

The End User sends a request to the dCDN.

The dCDN either sends a response or reroutes it, for example, to a dCDN surrogate.

3.  Fallback Target Server Address

Open Caching requires that the uCDN provides a fallback target server to the dCDN to be used in
cases where the dCDN cannot properly handle the request. To avoid redirect loops, the fallback
target server's address at the uCDN
which the client was redirected to the dCDN. The uCDN
receiving the client request at the fallback target. The Fallback Target is deﬁned as a generic
).
metadata object (see

 be diﬀerent from the original uCDN address from

 avoid further redirection when

Section 3.2 of [RFC8006]

MUST

MUST

Use cases:

•

Failover: A dCDN request router receives a request but has no caches to which it can route
the request. This can happen in the case of failures or temporary network overload.

•

No coverage: A dCDN request router receives a request from a client located in an area
inside the footprint but not covered by the dCDN caches or outside the dCDN footprint

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

coverage. In such cases, the router may choose to redirect the request back to the uCDN
fallback address.

•

Error: A cache may receive a request that it cannot properly serve, for example, some of the
metadata objects for that service were not properly acquired. In this case, the cache's
"default action" may be to "redirect back to uCDN".

The Fallback Target metadata object is used to indicate the target address the dCDN should
redirect a client to when falling back to the uCDN. The fallback target address is represented as
an Endpoint object as deﬁned in

.
Section 4.3.3 of [RFC8006]

In DNS redirection, a CNAME record is used as the fallback target address.

In HTTP redirection, a hostname is used as the fallback target address.

When using HTTP redirect to route a client request back to the uCDN, it is the dCDN's
responsibility to use the original URL path as the client would have used for the original uCDN
request, stripping, if needed, the dCDN path-preﬁx and/or the uCDN hostname from the redirect
URL that may have been used to request the content from the dCDN.

3.1.  Properties of Fallback Target Generic Metadata Object

The MI.FallbackTarget generic metadata object consists of the following two properties:

Property:

host

Description:

Target address to which the dCDN can redirect the client.

Type:

Endpoint object as deﬁned in

Section 4.3.3 of [RFC8006]

, with the limitation that in

case of DNS delegation, it
is present, the dCDN
MUST

SHOULD NOT
 ignore it.

 include a port number, and in case a port number

Mandatory-to-Specify:

Yes.

Property:

scheme

Description:

A URI scheme to be used in the redirect response location construction. When
 use this scheme in case of HTTP redirection to the uCDN fallback

MUST

present, the dCDN
address.

Type:

A URI scheme as deﬁned in

Section 3.1 of [RFC3986]

, represented as a JSON string. The

scheme

MUST

 be either "http" or "https".

Mandatory-to-Specify:

No. In case of HTTP redirection to fallback, if this property is absent

or empty, the dCDN redirecting entity
received by the dCDN.

MUST

 use the same scheme as in the request

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

The following is an example of an MI.FallbackTarget generic metadata object that designates the
host address the dCDN should use as fallback address to redirect back to the uCDN:

{
    "generic-metadata-type": "MI.FallbackTarget",
    "generic-metadata-value":
    {
        "host": "fallback-a.service123.ucdn.example",
        "scheme": "https"
    }
}

3.2.  Usage Example

The uCDN advertises out-of-band the fallback target address to the dCDN, so that the dCDN may
redirect a request back to the uCDN in case the dCDN cannot serve it. Using the MI, the uCDN
advertises its hosts to the dCDN, along with their speciﬁc host metadata (see
[RFC8006]
metadata" property of each host. The following is an example of a message ﬂow between a uCDN
and a dCDN. For simplicity, we focus on the sequence of messages between the uCDN and dCDN,
not on how they are passed.

). The Fallback Target generic metadata object is encapsulated within the "host-

Section 4.1.2 of

  dCDN                                                    uCDN
    +                                                       +
    |                                                       |
(1) | MI:  host: s123.ucdn.example.com                      |
    |      host-metadata:                                   |
    |          < metadata objects >                         |
    |          < MI.FallbackTarget                          |
    |            host: fallback-a.service123.ucdn.example > |
    |          < metadata objects >                         |
    <-------------------------------------------------------+
    |                                                       |
(2) | FCI:  capability-type: FCI.RedirectTarget             |
    |       redirecting-hosts: s123.ucdn.example.com        |
    |       target host: us-east1.dcdn.example.com          |
    +------------------------------------------------------->
    |                                                       |
    |                                                       |
    +                                                       +

Figure 3: Advertisement of Host Metadata with Fallback Target

Explanation:

(1)

The uCDN advertises a host (s123.ucdn.example.com) with the host metadata. The host-
metadata property contains an MI.FallbackTarget generic metadata object.

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

(2)

The dCDN advertises its FCI objects to the uCDN, including a Redirect Target capability
object that contains the redirect target address (us-east1.dcdn.example.com) speciﬁed for
that uCDN host.

The following is a generic sequence of redirection using the conﬁgurations that were advertised
in Figure 3. In this case, the dCDN redirects back to the uCDN fallback target address.

End User              dCDN            uCDN fallback          uCDN RR
    +                   +                   +                   +
    |                   |                   |                   |
(1) | Request sent s123.ucdn.example.com    |                   |
    +-------------------+-------------------+------------------->
    |                   |                   |                   |
(2) | Redirect to us-east1.dcdn.example.com |                   |
    <-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
    |                   |                   |                   |
(3) | Request us-east1.dcdn.example.com     |                   |
    +------------------->                   |                   |
    |                   |                   |                   |
(4) | Redirect back to fallback-a.service123.ucdn.example       |
    <-------------------+                   |                   |
    |                   |                   |                   |
(5) | Request fallback-a.service123.ucdn.example                |
    +--------------------------------------->                   |
    |                   |                   |                   |
(6) | Response          |                   |                   |
    <-------------------+-------------------+                   |
    |                   |                   |                   |
    +                   +                   +                   +

Figure 4: Redirection to Fallback Target

Explanation:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

The End User sends a request (DNS or HTTP) to the uCDN Request Router (RR).

Using the previously advertised Redirect Target, the uCDN redirects the request to the
dCDN.

The End User sends a request to the dCDN.

The dCDN cannot handle the request and therefore redirects it back to the uCDN fallback
target address.

The End User sends the request to the uCDN fallback target address.

The uCDN either sends a response or reroutes it, for example, to a uCDN surrogate.

3.3.  uCDN Addressing Considerations

When advertising fallback addresses to the dCDN, the uCDN
cases that may lead the dCDN to route requests to uCDN fallback. In extreme dCDN network
failures or under denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, requests coming from a large segment or
multiple segments of the dCDN may be routed back to the uCDN. The uCDN

 consider the failure use

SHOULD

SHOULD

 therefore

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

design its fallback addressing scheme and its available resources accordingly. A favorable
approach would be for the uCDN to use a diﬀerent fallback target address for each uCDN host,
enabling it to load balance the requests using the same methods as it would for its original hosts.
See Sections 4.1.2 and 4.1.3 of
 for a detailed description of how to use GenericMetadata
objects within the HostMatch object advertised in the HostIndex of the uCDN.

[RFC8006]

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  CDNI Payload Types

IANA has registered the following CDNI Payload Types in the "CDNI Payload Types" registry
deﬁned in

[RFC7736]

:

Payload Type

Speciﬁcation

FCI.RedirectTarget

RFC 8804

MI.FallbackTarget

RFC 8804

Table 1

4.1.1.  CDNI FCI RedirectTarget Payload Type

Purpose:

The purpose of this payload type is to distinguish FCI advertisement objects for

redirect target.

Interface:

FCI

Encoding:

See Section 2.3.

4.1.2.  CDNI MI FallbackTarget Payload Type

Purpose:

The purpose of this payload type is to distinguish FallbackTarget MI objects (and any

associated capability advertisement).

Interface:

MI/FCI

Encoding:

See Section 3.1.

5.  Security Considerations

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes extensions to the CDNI Metadata Interface (MI) and the Footprint &
Capabilities Advertisement interface (FCI). As such, it is subject to the security and privacy
considerations deﬁned in

Section 8 of [RFC8006]

Section 7 of [RFC8008]

, respectively.

 and in

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

5.1.  Conﬁdentiality and Privacy

The Redirect Target capability object potentially reveals information about the internal structure
of the dCDN network. A third party could intercept the FCI transactions and use the information
to attack the dCDN. The same is also true for the Fallback Target generic metadata object, as it
may reveal information about the internal structure of the uCDN, exposing it to external exploits.
 therefore use strong authentication and encryption and
Implementations of the FCI and MI
strictly follow the directions for securing the interface as deﬁned for the Metadata Interface in
Section 8.3 of [RFC8006]

MUST

.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC1034]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

[RFC6707]

[RFC7231]

[RFC7336]

[RFC7975]

[RFC8006]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

, January 2005,

,

,

,

.

,

Niven-Jenkins, B., Le Faucheur, F., and N. Bitar "Content Distribution Network
,
Interconnection (CDNI) Problem Statement" RFC 6707 DOI 10.17487/RFC6707
September 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6707>

,

,

.

,

Fielding, R., Ed. and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Semantics and Content" RFC 7231 DOI 10.17487/RFC7231
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7231>

, June 2014,

,
,
.

<https://

,

Peterson, L., Davie, B., and R. van Brandenburg, Ed. "Framework for Content
,
Distribution Network Interconnection (CDNI)" RFC 7336 DOI 10.17487/RFC7336
August 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7336>

,

,

.

,

Niven-Jenkins, B., Ed. and R. van Brandenburg, Ed. "Request Routing
Redirection Interface for Content Delivery Network (CDN) Interconnection" RFC
,
7975 DOI 10.17487/RFC7975
rfc7975>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2016,

.

,

Niven-Jenkins, B., Murray, R., Caulﬁeld, M., and K. Ma "Content Delivery
Network Interconnection (CDNI) Metadata" RFC 8006 DOI 10.17487/RFC8006
December 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8006>

,
,

,

.

,

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

[RFC8007]

[RFC8008]

[RFC8174]

Murray, R. and B. Niven-Jenkins "Content Delivery Network Interconnection
(CDNI) Control Interface / Triggers" RFC 8007 DOI 10.17487/RFC8007
2016,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8007>

,

,

.

, December

Seedorf, J., Peterson, J., Previdi, S., van Brandenburg, R., and K. Ma "Content
Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) Request Routing: Footprint and
Capabilities Semantics" RFC 8008 DOI 10.17487/RFC8008
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8008>

, December 2016,

.

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

6.2.  Informative References

[OC-RR]

[OCWG]

[RFC7736]

[RFC7871]

[SVA]

,

Finkelman, O., Ed., Hofmann, J., Klein, E., Mishra, S., Ma, K., Sahar, D., and B.
,
Zurat "Open Cache Request Routing Functional Speciﬁcation" Version 1.1
November 2016,
request-routing-functional-speciﬁcation/>

<https://www.streamingvideoalliance.org/books/open-cache-

,

.

,
Streaming Video Alliance "Open Caching" <https://
www.streamingvideoalliance.org/technical-groups/open-caching/>

,

.

,

Ma, K. "Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) Media Type
,
Registration" RFC 7736 DOI 10.17487/RFC7736
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7736>

, December 2015,

<https://

.

,

Contavalli, C., van der Gaast, W., Lawrence, D., and W. Kumari "Client Subnet in
,
DNS Queries" RFC 7871 DOI 10.17487/RFC7871
.
editor.org/info/rfc7871>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2016,

,

,

"Streaming Video Alliance" <https://www.streamingvideoalliance.org>

,

.

Acknowledgements

Nir B. Sopher

The authors thank
is signiﬁcant to this document. The authors also thank
feedback and
including his regular reviews.

Kevin J. Ma

 for reality checks against production use cases; his contribution
Ben Niven-Jenkins

 for his review and

 for his guidance throughout the development of this document,

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8804

CDNI Request Routing Extensions

September 2020

Authors' Addresses

Ori Finkelman
Qwilt
6, Ha'harash
Hod HaSharon 4524079
Israel
Email:

 ori.ﬁnkelman.ietf@gmail.com

Sanjay Mishra
Verizon
13100 Columbia Pike
Silver Spring MD 20904
United States of America
Email:

,

 sanjay.mishra@verizon.com

Finkelman & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 17

