Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8893
6811
Standards Track
September 2020
2070-1721
R. Bush
Internet Initiative Japan & Arrcus

R. Volk

J. Heitz
Cisco

RFC 8893
Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) Origin
Validation for BGP Export

Abstract

A BGP speaker may perform Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) origin validation not only
on routes received from BGP neighbors and routes that are redistributed from other routing
protocols, but also on routes it sends to BGP neighbors. For egress policy, it is important that the
classiﬁcation use the 'eﬀective origin AS' of the processed route, which may speciﬁcally be
altered by the commonly available knobs, such as removing private ASes, confederation
handling, and other modiﬁcations of the origin AS. This document updates RFC 6811.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8893

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8893

RPKI Origin Validation for BGP Export

September 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Suggested Reading

3.  Egress Processing

4.  Operational Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document does not change the protocol or semantics of
validation. It highlights an important use case of origin validation in external BGP (eBGP) egress
policies, explaining speciﬁcs of correct implementation in this context.

, BGP preﬁx origin

[RFC6811]

The term 'eﬀective origin AS' as used in this document refers to the Route Origin Autonomous
System Number (ASN)

 of the UPDATE to be sent to neighboring BGP speakers.

[RFC6811]

The eﬀective origin AS of a BGP UPDATE is decided by conﬁguration and outbound policy of the
BGP speaker. A validating BGP speaker
Section 2 of [RFC6811]
policy.

 apply Route Origin Validation policy semantics (see
) after applying any egress conﬁguration and

Section 4 of [RFC8481]

MUST

 and

This eﬀective origin AS of the announcement might be aﬀected by removal of private ASes,
, etc. Any AS_PATH modiﬁcations resulting in
confederation
eﬀective origin AS change

 be taken into account.

, migration

[RFC7705]

[RFC5065]

MUST

This document updates
origin AS to determine the Origin Validation state when applying egress policy.

 by clarifying that implementations must use the eﬀective

[RFC6811]

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8893

RPKI Origin Validation for BGP Export

September 2020

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Suggested Reading

It is assumed that the reader understands BGP
Authorizations (ROAs)
Clariﬁcations

[RFC6482]

[RFC8481]

.

, RPKI-based Preﬁx Validation

[RFC6811]

[RFC4271]

, the RPKI

[RFC6480]

, Route Origin
, and Origin Validation

3.  Egress Processing

BGP implementations supporting RPKI-based origin validation
conﬁguration primitives for decisions based on the validation state available for use in ingress,
redistribution, and egress policies. When applied to egress policy, validation state
determined using the eﬀective origin AS of the route as it will (or would) be announced to the
peer. The eﬀective origin AS may diﬀer from that of the route in the RIB due to commonly
available knobs, such as removal of private ASes, AS path manipulation, confederation handling,
etc.

 provide the same policy

MUST

MUST

 be

Egress policy handling can provide more robust protection for outbound eBGP than relying
solely on ingress (iBGP, eBGP, connected, static, etc.) redistribution being conﬁgured and working
correctly -- i.e., better support for the robustness principle.

4.  Operational Considerations

Conﬁgurations may have a complex policy where the eﬀective origin AS may not be easily
determined before the outbound policies have been run. It
 be possible to specify a
selective origin validation policy to be applied after any existing non-validating outbound
policies.

SHOULD

An implementation
because they were marked Invalid, as long as the router still has them in memory.

 be able to list announcements that were not sent to a peer, e.g.,

SHOULD

5.  Security Considerations

This document does not create security considerations beyond those of
By facilitating more correct validation, it attempts to improve BGP reliability.

[RFC6811]

 and

[RFC8481]
.

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8893

RPKI Origin Validation for BGP Export

September 2020

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4271]

[RFC5065]

[RFC6482]

[RFC6811]

[RFC7705]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8481]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed., Li, T., Ed., and S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

,
, January 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,
Traina, P., McPherson, D., and J. Scudder "Autonomous System Confederations
for BGP" RFC 5065 DOI 10.17487/RFC5065
editor.org/info/rfc5065>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2007,

,

,

.

Lepinski, M., Kent, S., and D. Kong "A Proﬁle for Route Origin Authorizations
(ROAs)" RFC 6482 DOI 10.17487/RFC6482
editor.org/info/rfc6482>

<https://www.rfc-

, February 2012,

.

,

,

,

Mohapatra, P., Scudder, J., Ward, D., Bush, R., and R. Austein "BGP Preﬁx Origin
,
,
Validation" RFC 6811 DOI 10.17487/RFC6811
editor.org/info/rfc6811>

,
, January 2013,
<https://www.rfc-

.

George, W. and S. Amante "Autonomous System Migration Mechanisms and
Their Eﬀects on the BGP AS_PATH Attribute" RFC 7705 DOI 10.17487/RFC7705
November 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7705>

,

,

.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Bush, R. "Clariﬁcations to BGP Origin Validation Based on Resource Public Key
Infrastructure (RPKI)" RFC 8481 DOI 10.17487/RFC8481
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8481>

, September 2018,

,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC6480]

Lepinski, M. and S. Kent "An Infrastructure to Support Secure Internet Routing"
RFC 6480 DOI 10.17487/RFC6480
info/rfc6480>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2012,

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgments

Thanks to reviews and comments from
Morrow Keyur Patel Alvaro Retana Job Snijders Robert Sparks

,

,

,

,

,

Linda Dunbar Nick Hilliard Benjamin Kaduk Chris

,

,

, and

Robert Wilton

.

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8893

RPKI Origin Validation for BGP Export

September 2020

Authors' Addresses

Randy Bush
Internet Initiative Japan & Arrcus
5147 Crystal Springs
Bainbridge Island WA 98110
United States of America
Email:

 randy@psg.com

,

Rüdiger Volk
Email:

 ietf@rewvolk.de

Jakob Heitz
Cisco
170 West Tasman Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
 jheitz@cisco.com
Email:

Bush, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

