Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8760
3261
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721
R. Shekh-Yusef
Avaya

RFC 8760
The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Digest Access
Authentication Scheme

Abstract

This document updates RFC 3261 by modifying the Digest Access Authentication scheme used by
the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) to add support for more secure digest algorithms, e.g.,
SHA-256 and SHA-512/256, to replace the obsolete MD5 algorithm.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8760

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Shekh-Yusef

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8760

SIP Digest Authentication

March 2020

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modiﬁcations of
such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modiﬁed
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Shekh-Yusef

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8760

SIP Digest Authentication

March 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

2.  Updates to the SIP Digest Access Authentication Scheme

2.1.  Hash Algorithms

2.2.  Representation of Digest Values

2.3.  UAS Behavior

2.4.  UAC Behavior

2.5.  Forking

2.6.  HTTP Digest Authentication Scheme Modiﬁcations

2.7.  ABNF for SIP

3.  Security Considerations

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

5.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

[RFC3261]

 uses the same mechanism as the Hypertext Transfer

The Session Initiation Protocol
Protocol (HTTP) does for authenticating users. This mechanism is called "Digest Access
Authentication". It is a simple challenge-response mechanism that allows a server to challenge a
client request and allows a client to provide authentication information in response to that
challenge. The version of Digest Access Authentication that
.
[RFC2617]

 references is speciﬁed in

[RFC3261]

The default hash algorithm for Digest Access Authentication is MD5. However, it has been
demonstrated that the MD5 algorithm is not collision resistant and is now considered a bad
choice for a hash function (see

[RFC6151]

).

Shekh-Yusef

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8760

SIP Digest Authentication

March 2020

The HTTP Digest Access Authentication document
stronger algorithms that can be used with the Digest Access Authentication scheme and
establishes a registry for these algorithms, known as the "Hash Algorithms for HTTP Digest
Authentication" IANA registry, so that algorithms can be added in the future.

 obsoletes

[RFC2617]

[RFC7616]

 and adds

This document updates the Digest Access Authentication scheme used by SIP to support the
algorithms listed in the "Hash Algorithms for HTTP Digest Authentication" IANA registry deﬁned
by

[RFC7616]

.

1.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Updates to the SIP Digest Access Authentication Scheme

This section describes the modiﬁcations to the operation of the Digest mechanism as speciﬁed in
[RFC3261]
Authentication" IANA registry described in

 in order to support the algorithms deﬁned in the "Hash Algorithms for HTTP Digest

.
[RFC7616]

[RFC3261]

[RFC3261]

[RFC2617]

 for the obsolete

 for Digest Access Authentication, substituting
, and describes the modiﬁcations to the usage of the Digest
 resulting from that reference update. It adds support for the SHA-256

It replaces the reference used in
[RFC7616]
mechanism in
and SHA-512/256 algorithms
provides additional User Agent Client (UAC) and User Agent Server (UAS) procedures regarding
usage of multiple SIP Authorization, WWW-Authenticate, and Proxy-Authenticate header ﬁelds,
including the order in which to insert and process them. It provides guidance regarding forking.
Finally, it updates the SIP ABNF as required by the updates.

. It adds required support for the "qop" parameter. It

[SHA2]

2.1.  Hash Algorithms

The Digest Access Authentication scheme has an "algorithm" parameter that speciﬁes the
algorithm to be used to compute the digest of the response. The "Hash Algorithms for HTTP
Digest Authentication" IANA registry speciﬁes the algorithms that correspond to 'algorithm'
values.

[RFC3261]
[RFC3261]
Authentication" IANA registry.

 speciﬁes only one algorithm, MD5, which is used by default. This document extends
 to allow use of any algorithm listed in the "Hash Algorithms for HTTP Digest

A UAS prioritizes which algorithm to use based on its policy, which is speciﬁed in Section 2.3 and
parallels the process used in HTTP speciﬁed by

[RFC7616]

.

Shekh-Yusef

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8760

SIP Digest Authentication

March 2020

2.2.  Representation of Digest Values

The size of the digest depends on the algorithm used. The bits in the digest are converted from
the most signiﬁcant to the least signiﬁcant bit, four bits at a time, to the ASCII representation as
follows. Each set of four bits is represented by its familiar hexadecimal notation from the
characters 0123456789abcdef; that is, binary 0000 is represented by the character '0', 0001 is
represented by '1', and so on up to the representation of 1111 as 'f'. If the SHA-256 or
SHA-512/256 algorithm is used to calculate the digest, then the digest will be represented as 64
hexadecimal characters.

2.3.  UAS Behavior

When a UAS receives a request from a UAC, and an acceptable Authorization header ﬁeld is not
received, the UAS can challenge the originator to provide credentials by rejecting the request
with a 401/407 status code with the WWW-Authenticate/Proxy-Authenticate header ﬁeld,
respectively. The UAS
allow the UAS to utilize the best available algorithm supported by the client.

 add multiple WWW-Authenticate/Proxy-Authenticate header ﬁelds to

MAY

If the UAS challenges the originator using multiple WWW-Authenticate/Proxy-Authenticate
header ﬁelds with the same realm, then each of these header ﬁelds
algorithm. The UAS
prefer to see them used, starting with the most preferred algorithm at the top. The UAS cannot
assume that the client will use the algorithm speciﬁed in the topmost header ﬁeld.

 add these header ﬁelds to the response in the order in which it would

 use a diﬀerent digest

MUST

MUST

2.4.  UAC Behavior

When the UAC receives a response with multiple WWW-Authenticate/Proxy-Authenticate header
ﬁelds with the same realm, it
 use the topmost header ﬁeld that it supports unless a local
policy dictates otherwise. The client

 ignore any challenge it does not understand.

SHOULD

MUST

When the UAC receives a 401 response with multiple WWW-Authenticate header ﬁelds with
diﬀerent realms, it
that match the topmost header ﬁeld of any of the realms unless a local policy dictates otherwise.

 retry and add an Authorization header ﬁeld containing credentials

SHOULD

If the UAC cannot respond to any of the challenges in the response, then it
attempts to send the request unless a local policy dictates otherwise, e.g., the policy might
indicate the use of non-Digest mechanisms. For example, if the UAC does not have credentials or
has stale credentials for any of the realms, the UAC will abandon the request.

 abandon

SHOULD

2.5.  Forking

Section 22.3 of [RFC3261]
describes the operation of the proxy when it forks a request. This section clariﬁes that operation.

 discusses the operation of the proxy-to-user authentication, which

Shekh-Yusef

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8760

SIP Digest Authentication

March 2020

If a request is forked, various proxy servers and/or UAs may wish to challenge the UAC. In this
case, the forking proxy server is responsible for aggregating these challenges into a single
response. Each WWW-Authenticate and Proxy-Authenticate value received in response to the
forked request
 be placed into the single response that is sent by the forking proxy to the
UAC.

MUST

When the forking proxy places multiple WWW-Authenticate and Proxy-Authenticate header
ﬁelds received from one downstream proxy into a single response, it
these header ﬁelds. The ordering of values received from diﬀerent downstream proxies is not
signiﬁcant.

 maintain the order of

MUST

2.6.  HTTP Digest Authentication Scheme Modiﬁcations

This section describes the modiﬁcations and clariﬁcations required to apply the HTTP Digest
Access Authentication scheme to SIP. The SIP scheme usage is similar to that for HTTP. For
completeness, the bullets speciﬁed below are mostly copied from
Section 22.4 of [RFC3261]
only semantic changes are speciﬁed in bullets 1, 7, and 8 below.

; the

SIP clients and servers

MUST NOT

 accept or request Basic authentication.

The rules for Digest Access Authentication follow those deﬁned in HTTP, with "HTTP/1.1"
[RFC7616]

 replaced by "SIP/2.0" in addition to the following diﬀerences:

1.

The URI included in the challenge has the following ABNF

[RFC5234]

:

      URI  =  Request-URI ; as defined in RFC 3261, Section 25

2.

The "uri" parameter of the Authorization header ﬁeld

MUST

 be enclosed in quotation marks.

3.

The ABNF for digest-uri-value is:

         digest-uri-value  =  Request-URI

4.

The example procedure for choosing a nonce based on ETag does not work for SIP.

5.

The text in

[RFC7234]

 regarding cache operation does not apply to SIP.

6. [RFC7616]

 requires that a server check that the URI in the request line and the URI included
in the Authorization header ﬁeld point to the same resource. In a SIP context, these two URIs
may refer to diﬀerent users due to forwarding at some proxy. Therefore, in SIP, a UAS
MUST
check if the Request-URI in the Authorization/Proxy-Authorization header ﬁeld value
corresponds to a user for whom the UAS is willing to accept forwarded or direct requests;
however, it

 still accept it if the two ﬁelds are not equivalent.

MAY

7.

As a clariﬁcation to the calculation of the A2 value for message integrity assurance in the
Digest Access Authentication scheme, implementers should assume that the hash of the
entity-body resolves to the hash of an empty string when the entity-body is empty (that is,
when SIP messages have no body):

Shekh-Yusef

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8760

SIP Digest Authentication

March 2020

 H(entity-body) = <algorithm>("")

For example, when the chosen algorithm is SHA-256, then:

 H(entity-body) = SHA-256("") =
"e3b0c44298fc1c149afbf4c8996fb92427ae41e4649b934ca495991b7852b855"

8.

MUST

 be able to properly handle a "qop" parameter received in an Authorization/

A UAS
Proxy-Authorization header ﬁeld, and a UAC
parameter received in WWW-Authenticate and Proxy-Authenticate header ﬁelds. However,
for backward compatibility reasons, the "qop" parameter is optional for clients and servers
based on
 to receive. If the "qop" parameter is not speciﬁed, then the default value
is "auth".

 be able to properly handle a "qop"

[RFC3261]

MUST

MUST

A UAS
header ﬁeld values, and a UAC
header ﬁeld.

 always send a "qop" parameter in WWW-Authenticate and Proxy-Authenticate

MUST

 send the "qop" parameter in any resulting authorization

The usage of the Authentication-Info header ﬁeld continues to be allowed, since it provides
integrity checks over the bodies and provides mutual authentication.

2.7.  ABNF for SIP

This document updates the ABNF

[RFC5234]

 for SIP as follows.

It extends the request-digest as follows to allow for diﬀerent digest sizes:

      request-digest = LDQUOT *LHEX RDQUOT

The number of hex digits is implied by the length of the value of the algorithm used, with a
minimum size of 32. A parameter with an empty value (empty string) is allowed when the UAC
has not yet received a challenge.

It extends the algorithm parameter as follows to allow any algorithm in the registry to be used:

algorithm =  "algorithm" EQUAL ( "MD5" / "MD5-sess" / "SHA-256" /
"SHA-256-sess" /
"SHA-512-256" /  "SHA-512-256-sess" / token )

3.  Security Considerations

This speciﬁcation adds new secure algorithms to be used with the Digest mechanism to
authenticate users. The obsolete MD5 algorithm remains only for backward compatibility with
[RFC2617]

NOT RECOMMENDED

, but its use is

.

Shekh-Yusef

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8760

SIP Digest Authentication

March 2020

This opens the system to the potential for a downgrade attack by an on-path attacker. The most
eﬀective way of dealing with this type of attack is to either validate the client and challenge it
accordingly or remove the support for backward compatibility by not supporting MD5.

Section 5 of [RFC7616]

 for a detailed security discussion of the Digest Access Authentication

See
scheme.

4.  IANA Considerations

 deﬁnes an IANA registry named "Hash Algorithms for HTTP Digest Authentication" to

[RFC7616]
simplify the introduction of new algorithms in the future. This document speciﬁes that
algorithms deﬁned in that registry may be used in SIP digest authentication.

This document has no actions for IANA.

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3261]

[RFC7234]

[RFC7616]

[RFC8174]

[SHA2]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R.,
Handley, M., and E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
10.17487/RFC3261

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
, June 2002,

,
.

,

Fielding, R., Ed., Nottingham, M., Ed., and J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer
,
Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Caching" RFC 7234 DOI 10.17487/RFC7234
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7234>

, June 2014,

,

.

,

Shekh-Yusef, R., Ed., Ahrens, D., and S. Bremer "HTTP Digest Access
, September 2015,
,
Authentication" RFC 7616 DOI 10.17487/RFC7616
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7616>

,

.

,

<https://

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

National Institute of Standards and Technology "Secure Hash Standard (SHS)"
<https://doi.org/10.6028/
DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4 FIPS 180-4
NIST.FIPS.180-4>

, August 2015,

,

.

,

,

5.2.  Informative References

[RFC2617]

Franks, J., Hallam-Baker, P., Hostetler, J., Lawrence, S., Leach, P., Luotonen, A.,
and L. Stewart "HTTP Authentication: Basic and Digest Access Authentication"

,

,

Shekh-Yusef

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8760

SIP Digest Authentication

March 2020

RFC 2617 DOI 10.17487/RFC2617
rfc2617>

,
.

, June 1999,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

[RFC5234]

[RFC6151]

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

,

.

Turner, S. and L. Chen "Updated Security Considerations for the MD5 Message-
Digest and the HMAC-MD5 Algorithms" RFC 6151 DOI 10.17487/RFC6151
,
2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6151>

, March

,

,

.

Acknowledgments

The author would like to thank the following individuals for their careful review, comments, and
suggestions:
,
Paul Kyzivat Olle Johansson Dale Worley Michael Procter Inaki Baz Castillo Tolga
,
Asveren Christer Holmberg Brian Rosen Jean Mahoney Adam Roach Barry Leiba Roni Even
Eric Vyncke Benjamin Kaduk Alissa Cooper Roman Danyliw Alexey Melnikov
Sobolev

,
, and

Maxim

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Author's Address

Rifaat Shekh-Yusef
Avaya
425 Legget Dr.
Ottawa Ontario
Canada
Phone:
Email:

 +1-613-595-9106
 rifaat.ietf@gmail.com

Shekh-Yusef

Standards Track

Page 9

