Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8918
5305, 6232
Standards Track
September 2020
2070-1721

L. Ginsberg
Cisco Systems

P. Wells
Cisco Systems

T. Li
Arista Networks

T. Przygienda
Juniper Networks, Inc.

S. Hegde
Juniper Networks, Inc.

RFC 8918
Invalid TLV Handling in IS-IS

Abstract

The key to the extensibility of the Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS) protocol
has been the handling of unsupported and/or invalid Type-Length-Value (TLV) tuples. Although
there are explicit statements in existing speciﬁcations, deployment experience has shown that
there are inconsistencies in the behavior when a TLV that is disallowed in a particular Protocol
Data Unit (PDU) is received.

This document discusses such cases and makes the correct behavior explicit in order to ensure
that interoperability is maximized.

This document updates RFCs 5305 and 6232.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8918

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Ginsberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8918

Invalid TLV Handling in IS-IS

September 2020

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  TLV Codepoints Registry

3.  TLV Acceptance in PDUs

3.1.  Handling of Disallowed TLVs in Received PDUs Other Than LSP Purges

3.2.  Special Handling of Disallowed TLVs in Received LSP Purges

3.3.  Applicability to Sub-TLVs

3.4.  Correction to POI "TLV Codepoints Registry" Entry

4.  TLV Validation and LSP Acceptance

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS) protocol
 utilizes Type-Length-
Value (TLV) encoding for all content in the body of Protocol Data Units (PDUs). New extensions to
the protocol are supported by deﬁning new TLVs. In order to allow protocol extensions to be
deployed in a backwards compatible way, an implementation is required to ignore TLVs that it
does not understand. This behavior is also applied to sub-TLVs
, which are contained
within TLVs.

[ISO10589]

[RFC5305]

Ginsberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8918

Invalid TLV Handling in IS-IS

September 2020

Also essential to the correct operation of the protocol is having the validation of PDUs be
independent from the validation of the TLVs contained in the PDU. PDUs that are valid must be
accepted
invalid in some way (e.g., incorrect syntax, data value out of range, etc.).

 even if an individual TLV contained within that PDU is not understood or is

[ISO10589]

The set of TLVs (and sub-TLVs) that are allowed in each PDU type is documented in the "TLV
Codepoints Registry" established by

 and updated by

[RFC7356]
.

[RFC6233]

[RFC3563]

 and

This document is intended to clarify some aspects of existing speciﬁcations and, thereby, reduce
the occurrence of non-conformant behavior seen in real-world deployments. Although behaviors
speciﬁed in existing protocol speciﬁcations are not changed, the clariﬁcations contained in this
document serve as updates to

 (see Section 3.3) and

 (see Section 3.4).

[RFC6232]

[RFC5305]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  TLV Codepoints Registry

[RFC3563]
TLV codepoints

 established the IANA-managed "IS-IS TLV Codepoints Registry" for recording assigned
[RFC3359]

. The initial contents of this registry were based on

[TLV_CODEPOINTS]

.

The registry includes a set of columns indicating in which PDU types a given TLV is allowed:

IIH

TLV is allowed in Intermediate System to Intermediate System Hello (IIH) PDUs (Point-to-
point and LAN)

LSP

TLV is allowed in Link State PDUs (LSPs)

SNP

TLV is allowed in Sequence Number PDUs (SNPs) (Partial Sequence Number PDUs
(PSNPs) and Complete Sequence Number PDUs (CSNPs))

Purge

TLV is allowed in LSP Purges

[RFC6233]

If "Y" is entered in a column, it means the TLV is allowed in the corresponding PDU type.

If "N" is entered in a column, it means the TLV is not allowed in the corresponding PDU type.

3.  TLV Acceptance in PDUs

This section describes the correct behavior when a PDU that contains a TLV that is speciﬁed as
disallowed in the "TLV Codepoints Registry" is received.

Ginsberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8918

Invalid TLV Handling in IS-IS

September 2020

3.1.  Handling of Disallowed TLVs in Received PDUs Other Than LSP Purges

[ISO10589]
recognised". It states (see Sections 9.5 - 9.13):

 deﬁnes the behavior required when a PDU is received containing a TLV that is "not

Any codes in a received PDU that are not recognised shall be ignored.

This is the model to be followed when a TLV that is disallowed is received. Therefore, TLVs in a
PDU (other than LSP purges) that are disallowed
 cause the PDU
itself to be rejected by the receiving IS.

 be ignored and

MUST NOT

MUST

3.2.  Special Handling of Disallowed TLVs in Received LSP Purges

When purging LSPs,
TLVs) be removed before generating the purge. LSP purges that have TLVs in the body are
accepted, though any TLVs that are present are ignored.

 recommends (but does not require) the body of the LSP (i.e., all

[ISO10589]

 was introduced, this looseness when processing
When cryptographic authentication
received purges had to be addressed in order to prevent attackers from being able to initiate a
purge without having access to the authentication key. Therefore,
requirements on what TLVs were allowed in a purge (authentication only) and speciﬁed that:

 imposed strict

[RFC5304]

[RFC5304]

ISes

MUST NOT

 accept purges that contain TLVs other than the authentication TLV.

This behavior was extended by
(POI) TLV, and
identify all the TLVs that are allowed in purges.

[RFC6233]

[RFC6232]

, which introduced the Purge Originator Identiﬁcation

, which added the "Purge" column to the "TLV Codepoints Registry" to

[RFC5304]

The behavior speciﬁed in
[ISO10589]
authentication. Similarly, the extensions deﬁned by
behavior deﬁned in
[RFC5304]
support the extensions.

; therefore, it can only be safely enabled when all nodes support cryptographic
 are not compatible with the

[RFC6232]

; therefore, they can only be safely enabled when all nodes

 is not backwards compatible with the behavior deﬁned by

When new protocol behaviors are speciﬁed that are not backwards compatible, it is
RECOMMENDED
prevent interoperability issues and allow for non-disruptive introduction of the new
functionality into an existing network.

 that implementations provide controls for their enablement. This serves to

Ginsberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8918

Invalid TLV Handling in IS-IS

September 2020

3.3.  Applicability to Sub-TLVs

[RFC5305]
 introduced sub-TLVs, which are TLV tuples advertised within the body of a parent TLV.
Registries associated with sub-TLVs are associated with the "TLV Codepoints Registry" and specify
in which TLVs a given sub-TLV is allowed.
sentence:

 is updated by the following

Section 2 of [RFC5305]

As with TLVs, it is required that sub-TLVs that are disallowed
receipt.

MUST

 be ignored on

The existing sentence in

Section 2 of [RFC5305]

:

Unknown sub-TLVs are to be ignored and skipped upon receipt.

is replaced by:

Unknown sub-TLVs

MUST

 be ignored and skipped upon receipt.

3.4.  Correction to POI "TLV Codepoints Registry" Entry

An error was introduced by
 states:
Section 3 of [RFC6232]

[RFC6232]

 when specifying in which PDUs the POI TLV is allowed.

The POI TLV
zero Remaining Lifetime.

SHOULD

 be found in all purges and

MUST NOT

 be found in LSPs with a non-

However, the IANA section of the same document states:

The additional values for this TLV should be IIH:n, LSP:y, SNP:n, and Purge:y.

The correct setting for "LSP" is "n". This document updates

[RFC6232]

 by correcting that error.

This document also updates the previously quoted text from

Section 3 of [RFC6232]

 to be:

The POI TLV
zero Remaining Lifetime.

SHOULD

 be sent in all purges and

MUST NOT

 be sent in LSPs with a non-

Ginsberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8918

Invalid TLV Handling in IS-IS

September 2020

4.  TLV Validation and LSP Acceptance

The correct format of a TLV and its associated sub-TLVs, if applicable, is deﬁned in the document
(s) that introduces each codepoint. The deﬁnition
format/content of the TLV does not conform to the speciﬁcation (e.g., "
receipt"). When making use of the information encoded in a given TLV (or sub-TLV), receiving
 verify that the TLV conforms to the standard deﬁnition. This includes cases where
nodes
the length of a TLV/sub-TLV is incorrect and/or cases where the value ﬁeld does not conform to
the deﬁned restrictions.

 include what action to take when the

 be ignored on

MUST

MUST

MUST

However, the unit of ﬂooding for the IS-IS Update process is an LSP. The presence of a TLV (or
sub-TLV) with content that does not conform to the relevant speciﬁcation
 cause the
LSP itself to be rejected. Failure to follow this requirement will result in inconsistent LSP
Databases on diﬀerent nodes in the network that will compromise the correct operation of the
protocol.

MUST NOT

LSP Acceptance rules are speciﬁed in
by

[ISO10589]
 and are further extended by

[RFC5310]

[RFC5304]

 and

.
[RFC6233]

. Acceptance rules for LSP purges are extended

 also speciﬁes the behavior when an LSP is not accepted. This behavior is not altered

[ISO10589]
by extensions to the LSP Acceptance rules, i.e., regardless of the reason for the rejection of an
LSP, the Update process on the receiving router takes the same action.

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added this document as a reference for the "TLV Codepoints Registry".

IANA has also modiﬁed the entry for the Purge Originator Identiﬁcation TLV in the "TLV
Codepoints Registry" to be IIH:n, LSP:n, SNP:n, and Purge:y.

The reference ﬁeld of the Purge Originator Identiﬁcation TLV has been updated to point to this
document.

6.  Security Considerations

As this document makes no changes to the protocol, there are no new security issues introduced.

The clariﬁcations discussed in this document are intended to make it less likely that
implementations will incorrectly process received LSPs, thereby also making it less likely that a
bad actor could exploit a faulty implementation.

Security concerns for IS-IS are discussed in

[ISO10589] [RFC5304]
,

, and

.
[RFC5310]

Ginsberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8918

Invalid TLV Handling in IS-IS

September 2020

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[ISO10589]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3563]

[RFC5304]

[RFC5305]

[RFC5310]

[RFC6232]

[RFC6233]

[RFC8174]

,

ISO "Information technology -- Telecommunications and information exchange
between systems -- Intermediate System to Intermediate System intra-domain
routeing information exchange protocol for use in conjunction with the protocol
for providing the connectionless-mode network service (ISO 8473)" ISO/IEC
10589:2002, Second Edition

, November 2002.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Zinin, A. "Cooperative Agreement Between the ISOC/IETF and ISO/IEC Joint
Technical Committee 1/Sub Committee 6 (JTC1/SC6) on IS-IS Routing Protocol
,
Development" RFC 3563 DOI 10.17487/RFC3563
<https://www.rfc-
.
editor.org/info/rfc3563>

, July 2003,

,

Li, T. and R. Atkinson "IS-IS Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5304 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5304>
10.17487/RFC5304

, October 2008,

,

,

,

.

,
Li, T. and H. Smit "IS-IS Extensions for Traﬃc Engineering" RFC 5305 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5305>
10.17487/RFC5305

, October 2008,

,

,

.

Bhatia, M., Manral, V., Li, T., Atkinson, R., White, R., and M. Fanto "IS-IS Generic
,
,
Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5310 DOI 10.17487/RFC5310
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5310>

,
, February 2009,

,
Wei, F., Qin, Y., Li, Z., Li, T., and J. Dong "Purge Originator Identiﬁcation TLV for
, May 2011,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
IS-IS" RFC 6232 DOI 10.17487/RFC6232
info/rfc6232>

.

,

Li, T. and L. Ginsberg "IS-IS Registry Extension for Purges" RFC 6233 DOI
10.17487/RFC6233

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6233>

, May 2011,

.

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

[TLV_CODEPOINTS]

IANA "IS-IS TLV Codepoints" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/isis-tlv-

,

,
codepoints/>

.

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC3359]

,

Przygienda, T. "Reserved Type, Length and Value (TLV) Codepoints in
Intermediate System to Intermediate System" RFC 3359 DOI 10.17487/RFC3359
August 2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3359>

,

,

.

,

Ginsberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8918

Invalid TLV Handling in IS-IS

September 2020

[RFC7356]

Ginsberg, L., Previdi, S., and Y. Yang "IS-IS Flooding Scope Link State PDUs
,
(LSPs)" RFC 7356 DOI 10.17487/RFC7356
editor.org/info/rfc7356>

, September 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

,

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank

Alvaro Retana

.

Authors' Addresses

Les Ginsberg
Cisco Systems
Email:

 ginsberg@cisco.com

Paul Wells
Cisco Systems
Email:

 pauwells@cisco.com

Tony Li
Arista Networks
5453 Great America Parkway
Santa Clara CA 95054
,
United States of America
Email:

 tony.li@tony.li

Tony Przygienda
Juniper Networks, Inc.
1194 N. Matilda Ave
Sunnyvale CA 94089
,
United States of America
 prz@juniper.net
Email:

Shraddha Hegde
Juniper Networks, Inc.
Embassy Business Park
Bangalore 560093
KA
India
Email:

 shraddha@juniper.net

Ginsberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

