Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8748
Standards Track
March 2020
2070-1721
R. Carney
GoDaddy Inc.

G. Brown
CentralNic Group plc

J. Frakes

RFC 8748
Registry Fee Extension for the Extensible
Provisioning Protocol (EPP)

Abstract

Given the expansion of the DNS namespace and the proliferation of novel business models, it is
desirable to provide a method for Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) clients to query EPP
servers for the fees and credits associated with various billable transactions and provide
expected fees and credits for certain commands and objects. This document describes an EPP
extension mapping for registry fees.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8748

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.  Migrating to Newer Versions of This Extension

3.  Extension Elements

3.1.  Client Commands

3.2.  Currency Codes

3.3.  Validity Periods

3.4.  Fees and Credits

3.4.1.  Refunds

3.4.2.  Grace Periods

3.4.3.  Correlation between Refundability and Grace Periods

3.4.4.  Applicability

3.5.  Account Balance

3.6.  Credit Limit

3.7.  Classiﬁcation of Objects

3.8.  "Phase" and "Subphase" Attributes

3.9.  Reason

4.  Server Handling of Fee Information

5.  EPP Command Mapping

5.1.  EPP Query Commands

5.1.1.  EPP <check> Command

5.1.2.  EPP Transfer Query Command

5.2.  EPP Transform Commands

5.2.1.  EPP <create> Command

5.2.2.  EPP <delete> Command

5.2.3.  EPP <renew> Command

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

5.2.4.  EPP <transfer> Command

5.2.5.  EPP <update> Command

6.  Formal Syntax

6.1.  Fee Extension Schema

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  XML Namespace

8.2.  EPP Extension Registry

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Historically, domain name registries have applied a simple fee structure for billable transactions,
namely a basic unit price applied to domain <create>, <renew>, <transfer>, and Redemption
Grace Period (RGP)
 restore commands. Given the relatively small number of EPP
servers to which EPP clients have been required to connect, it has generally been the case that
client operators have been able to obtain details of these fees out of band by contacting the
server operators.

[RFC3915]

Given the expansion of the DNS namespace and the proliferation of novel business models, it is
desirable to provide a method for EPP clients to query EPP servers for the fees and credits
associated with various billable transactions and certain commands and speciﬁc objects.

This document describes an extension mapping for version 1.0 of the Extensible Provisioning
Protocol (EPP)
. This EPP mapping provides a mechanism by which EPP clients may
query the fees and credits associated with various billable transactions and obtain their current
account balance.

[RFC5730]

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

XML is case sensitive. Unless stated otherwise, the XML speciﬁcations and examples provided in
this document
conforming implementation.

 be interpreted in the character case presented in order to develop a

MUST

"fee" is used as an abbreviation for "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0". The XML namespace
preﬁx "fee" is used, but implementations
 depend on it and instead employ a proper
MUST NOT
namespace-aware XML parser and serializer to interpret and output the XML documents.

In the examples, "C:" represents lines sent by a protocol client, and "S:" represents lines returned
by a protocol server. Indentation and white space in the examples are provided only to illustrate
element relationships and are not a required feature of this protocol.

2.  Migrating to Newer Versions of This Extension

Servers that implement this extension
their implementations when a new version of the extension is deployed.

SHOULD

 provide a way for clients to progressively update

SHOULD

 (for a temporary migration period) provide support for older versions of the

Servers
extension in parallel to the newest version and allow clients to select their preferred version via
the <svcExtension> element of the <login> command.

If a client requests multiple versions of the extension at login, then, when preparing responses to
commands that do not include extension elements, the server
elements in the namespace of the newest version of the extension requested by the client.

 only include extension

SHOULD

When preparing responses to commands that do include extension elements, the server
only include extension elements for the extension versions present in the command.

SHOULD

3.  Extension Elements

3.1.  Client Commands

The <fee:command> element is used in the EPP <check> command to determine the fee that is
applicable to the given command.

The "name" attribute of the <fee:command> is used to deﬁne which transform fees the client is
requesting information about. The possible values for the "name" attribute are:

•

"create", indicating a <create> command as deﬁned in

[RFC5730]

.

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

•

"delete", indicating a <delete> command as deﬁned in

[RFC5730]

.

•

"renew", indicating a <renew> command as deﬁned in

[RFC5730]

.

•

"update", indicating a <update> command as deﬁned in

[RFC5730]

.

•

"transfer", indicating a <transfer> command as deﬁned in

[RFC5730]

.

•

If the server supports registry grace period mapping
.
support the "restore" value as deﬁned in

[RFC3915]

[RFC3915]

, then the server

MUST

 also

•

"custom", indicating a custom command that
custom command name. The possible set of custom command name values is dictated by the
server policy.

 set the "customName" attribute with a

MUST

The <fee:command> element
as described in
custom or subphase as described in

[RFC8334]

 have an
. It may also contain an

[RFC8334]
.

MAY

OPTIONAL

 "phase" attribute specifying a launch phase
 "subphase" attribute identifying the

OPTIONAL

3.2.  Currency Codes

The <fee:currency> element is used to indicate the currency in which fees are charged. The value
of this element

 be a three-character currency code from

[ISO4217_2015]
.

MUST

Note that
non-currency-based system for assessing fees, such as a system of credits.

 provides the special "XXX" code, which

[ISO4217_2015]

MAY

 be used if the server uses a

The use of <fee:currency> elements in client commands is
is not present in a command, the server
default currency or on the client's account settings, which are agreed to by the client and server
via an out-of-band channel. However, the <fee:currency> element
responses.

 determine the currency based on the server

: if a <fee:currency> element

 be present in the

OPTIONAL

MUST

MUST

Servers
Servers

SHOULD NOT

 perform a currency conversion if a client uses an incorrect currency code.

SHOULD

 return a 2004 "Parameter value range error" instead.

3.3.  Validity Periods

When querying for fee information using the <check> command, the <fee:period> element is
used to indicate the validity period, which is to be added to extend the registration period of
objects by the <create>, <renew>, and <transfer> commands. Validity periods are measured in
years or months, with the appropriate units speciﬁed using the "unit" attribute. Valid values for
the "unit" attribute are "y" for years and "m" for months. This element is derived from the
[RFC5731]
.
<domain:period> element described in

The <fee:period> element is
determine the fee(s) using the server default period. The <fee:period> element
in <check> responses.

 in <check> commands; if omitted, the server
MUST

OPTIONAL

MUST
 be present

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

3.4.  Fees and Credits

Servers that implement this extension will include elements in responses that provide
information about the fees and/or credits associated with a given billable transaction. A fee will
result in subtracting from the Account Balance (described in Section 3.5), and a credit will result
in adding to the Account Balance (described in Section 3.5).

The <fee:fee> and <fee:credit> elements are used to provide this information. The presence of a
<fee:fee> element in a response indicates a debit against the client's account balance; a
<fee:credit> element indicates a credit. A <fee:fee> element
negative) value. A <fee:credit> element

 have a zero or greater (non-

 have a negative value.

MUST

MUST

MAY

 respond with multiple <fee:fee> and <fee:credit> elements in the same response. In

A server
such cases, the net fee or credit applicable to the transaction is the arithmetic sum of the values
of each of the <fee:fee> and/or <fee:credit> elements. This amount applies to the total additional
validity period for the object (where applicable).

The following attributes are deﬁned for the <fee:fee> element. These are described in detail
below:

description:

an

OPTIONAL

 attribute that provides a human-readable description of the fee.

Servers should provide documentation on the possible values of this attribute and their
 be present, per the language structure in
meanings. An
MAY
[RFC5646]
(English). If the "description" attribute is not present, the "lang" attribute can be ignored.

, to identify the language of the returned text and has a default value of "en"

 "lang" attribute

OPTIONAL

refundable:

an
object is deleted.

OPTIONAL

 boolean attribute indicating whether the fee is refundable if the

grace-period:

an
refundable.

OPTIONAL

 attribute that provides the time period during which the fee is

applied:

OPTIONAL

 attribute indicating when the fee will be deducted from the client's

an
account.

The <fee:credit> element can take a "description" attribute as described above. An
"lang" attribute
value of "en" (English).

OPTIONAL
 be present to identify the language of the returned text and has a default

MAY

3.4.1.  Refunds

MAY

 have an

<fee:fee> elements
Fees may be refunded under certain circumstances, such as when a domain application is
) or when an object is deleted during the relevant grace
rejected (as described in
period (see Section 3.4.2).

 "refundable" attribute that takes a boolean value.

[RFC8334]

OPTIONAL

If the "refundable" attribute is omitted, then clients
the refundability of the fee.

SHOULD NOT

 make any assumptions about

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

3.4.2.  Grace Periods

[RFC3915]
transaction during which, if an object is deleted, the client receives a refund.

 describes a system of "grace periods", which are time periods following a billable

The "grace-period" attribute
server implements the registry grace period extension
period for all relevant transactions.

MAY

 be used to indicate the relevant grace period for a fee. If a
 specify the grace

[RFC3915] MUST

, it

If the "grace-period" attribute is omitted, then clients
the grace period of the fee.

SHOULD NOT

 make any assumptions about

3.4.3.  Correlation between Refundability and Grace Periods

If a <fee:fee> element has a "grace-period" attribute, then it
"refundable" attribute
then it
MUST NOT

 have a "grace-period" attribute.

MUST
 be true. If the "refundable" attribute of a <fee:fee> element is false,

 also be refundable, and the

MUST

3.4.4.  Applicability

Fees may be applied immediately upon receipt of a command from a client or may only be
applied once an out-of-band process (such as the processing of applications at the end of a launch
phase) has taken place.

The "applied" attribute of the <fee:fee> element allows servers to indicate whether a fee will be
applied immediately or whether it will be applied at some point in the future. This attribute takes
two possible values: "immediate" or "delayed".

3.5.  Account Balance

The <fee:balance> element is an
transform commands. If present, it can be used by the client to determine the remaining credit at
the server.

 be included in server responses to

 element that

OPTIONAL

MAY

Whether or not the <fee:balance> is included in responses is a matter of server policy. However,
if a server chooses to oﬀer support for this element, it
"transform" or billable commands (e.g., <create>, <renew>, <update>, <delete>, <transfer
op="request">).

 be included in responses to all

MUST

The value of the <fee:balance>
extended a line of credit to the client (see Section 3.6).

MAY

 be negative. A negative balance indicates that the server has

MUST

 reﬂect the client's account balance after any fees or credits associated with that

If a server includes a <fee:balance> element in response to transform commands, the value of the
element
command have been applied. If the "applied" attribute of the <fee:fee> element is "delayed", then
the <fee:balance>
 reﬂect the client's account balance without any fees or credits associated
with that command.

MUST

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

3.6.  Credit Limit

As described above, if a server returns a response containing a <fee:balance> with a negative
 also include in
value, then the server has extended a line of credit to the client. A server
responses a <fee:creditLimit> element that indicates the maximum credit available to a client. A
server
exceeds the value of the <fee:creditLimit> element.

 reject certain transactions if the absolute value of the <fee:balance> is equal to or

MAY

MAY

Whether or not the <fee:creditLimit> is included in responses is a matter of server policy.
However, if a server chooses to oﬀer support for this element, it
to all "transform" commands (e.g., <create>, <renew>, <update>, <delete>, <transfer
op="request">).

MUST

 be included in responses

3.7.  Classiﬁcation of Objects

Objects may be assigned to a particular class, category, or tier, each of which has a particular fee
or set of fees associated with it. The <fee:class> element, which
transform responses, is used to indicate the classiﬁcation of an object.

 appear in <check> and

MAY

If a server makes use of this element, it should provide clients with a list of all the values that the
element may take via an out-of-band channel. Servers
on this list.

 use values that do not appear

MUST NOT

Servers that make use of this element
for all objects that are subject to the standard or default fee.

MUST

 use a <fee:class> element with the value "standard"

3.8.  "Phase" and "Subphase" Attributes

The <fee:command> element has two attributes, "phase" and "subphase", that provide additional
information related to a speciﬁc launch phase, as described in
used as ﬁlters that should reﬁne the server processing.

. These attributes are

[RFC8334]

If the client <fee:command> contains a server-supported combination of phase/subphase, the
server
MUST
combination.

 return the fee data (including the phase/subphase attribute(s)) for the speciﬁc

If the client <fee:command> contains no "phase"/"subphase" attributes and the server has only
one active phase/subphase combination, the server
"phase"/"subphase" attribute(s)) of the currently active phase/subphase.

 return the data (including the

MUST

If the client <fee:command> contains no phase/subphase attributes and the server has more than
one active phase/subphase combination, the server
parameter missing" error.

 respond with a 2003 "Required

MUST

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

If the client <fee:command> contains no phase/subphase attributes and the server is currently in
a "quiet period" (e.g., not accepting registrations or applications), the server
consistent with the default general availability phase (e.g., "open" or "claims"), including the
appropriate phase/subphase attribute(s).

 return data

MUST

If the client <fee:command> contains a phase attribute with no subphase and the server has only
one active subphase (or no subphase) of this phase, the server
the phase/subphase attribute(s)) of the provided phase and currently active subphase.

 return the data (including

MUST

If the client <fee:command> contains a phase attribute with no subphase and the server has
more than one active subphase combination of this phase, the server
"Required parameter missing" error.

 respond with a 2003

MUST

If the client <fee:command> contains a subphase with no phase attribute, the server
respond with a 2003 "Required parameter missing" error.

MUST

If the client <fee:command> contains a phase attribute not deﬁned in
by the server, the server

 respond with a 2004 "Parameter value range error".

MUST

[RFC8334]

 or not supported

If the client <fee:command> contains a subphase attribute (or phase/subphase combination) not
supported by the server, the server

 respond with a 2004 "Parameter value range error".

MUST

3.9.  Reason

The <fee:reason> element is used to provide server-speciﬁc text in an eﬀort to better explain why
a <check> command did not complete as the client expected. An
be present to identify the language, per the language structure in
and has a default value of "en" (English).

MAY
, of the returned text

 "lang" attribute

[RFC5646]

OPTIONAL

The <fee:reason> element can be used within the server response <fee:command> element or
within the <fee:cd> element. See Section 5.1.1 for details on the <fee:cd> "check data" element.

If the server cannot calculate the relevant fees because the object, command, currency, period,
class, or some combination is invalid per server policy, the server has two ways of handling the
error processing of <fee:command> element(s):

1.

Fast-fail: The server, upon error identiﬁcation,
elements and return a <fee:cd> to the client containing the <fee:objID> and a <fee:reason>
element detailing the reason for failure.

 stop processing <fee:command>

MAY

    S: <fee:cd avail="0">
    S:   <fee:objID>example.xyz</fee:objID>
    S:   <fee:reason>Only 1 year registration periods are
    S:   valid.</fee:reason>
    S: </fee:cd>

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

2.

Partial-fail: The server, upon error identiﬁcation,
elements and return a <fee:cd> to the client containing the successfully processed
<fee:command> elements and failed <fee:command> elements. All returned failed
<fee:command> elements
and the server

 additionally include a <fee:reason> element at the <fee:cd> level.

 have a <fee:reason> element detailing the reason for failure,

 continue processing <fee:command>

MUST

MAY

MAY

    S: <fee:cd avail="0">
    S:   <fee:objID>example.xyz</fee:objID>
    S:   <fee:command name="create">
    S:     <fee:period unit="y">2</fee:period>
    S:     <fee:reason>Only 1 year registration periods are
    S:     valid.</fee:reason>
    S:   </fee:command>
    S: </fee:cd>

In either failure scenario, the server
server

MUST

 process all objects in the client request.

MUST

 set the <fee:cd> "avail" attribute to false (0), and the

4.  Server Handling of Fee Information

Depending on the server policy, a client
described in this document for certain transform commands. Servers must provide clear
documentation to clients about the circumstances in which this extension must be used.

 be required to include the extension elements

MAY

MUST

 return avail="0" in its response to a <check> command for any object in the

The server
<check> command that does not include the <fee:check> extension where the server would fail a
domain <create> command when no <fee> extension is provided for that same object.

If a server receives a <check> command from a client that results in no possible fee combination,
the server
<fee:reason>.

 set the "avail" attribute of the <fee:cd> element to false (0) and provide a

MUST

If a server receives a <check> command from a client that results in an ambiguous result (i.e.,
multiple possible fee combinations), the server
parameter missing" error.

 reject the command with a 2003 "Required

MUST

If a server receives a command from a client that does not include the fee extension data
elements required by the server for that command, then the server
"Required parameter missing" error.

MUST

 respond with a 2003

If the total fee provided by the client is less than the server's own calculation of the fee or the
server determines the currency is inappropriate for that command, then the server
the command with a 2004 "Parameter value range error".

MUST

 reject

5.  EPP Command Mapping

A detailed description of the EPP syntax and semantics can be found in

[RFC5730]

.

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

5.1.  EPP Query Commands

This extension does not add any elements to the EPP <poll> or <info> commands or responses.

5.1.1.  EPP <check> Command

This extension deﬁnes a new command called the Fee Check Command that deﬁnes additional
elements for the EPP <check> command to provide fee information.

MAY

The command
The <fee:check> element
more <fee:command> elements.

MAY

 contain an <extension> element, which

MAY

 contain a <fee:check> element.

 contain one <fee:currency> element and

MUST

 contain one or

The <fee:command> element(s)
"phase" attribute, and an
element(s)
MAY

OPTIONAL

 have the following child elements:

MUST

 contain a "name" attribute (see Section 3.1), an

OPTIONAL
 "subphase" attribute (see Section 3.8). The <fee:command>

•

An

OPTIONAL

 <fee:period> element (as described in Section 3.3).

Example <check> command:

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <check>
C:       <domain:check
C:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
C:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
C:         <domain:name>example.net</domain:name>
C:         <domain:name>example.xyz</domain:name>
C:       </domain:check>
C:     </check>
C:     <extension>
C:       <fee:check xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0">
C:         <fee:currency>USD</fee:currency>
C:         <fee:command name="create">
C:           <fee:period unit="y">2</fee:period>
C:         </fee:command>
C:         <fee:command name="renew"/>
C:         <fee:command name="transfer"/>
C:         <fee:command name="restore"/>
C:       </fee:check>
C:     </extension>
C:     <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

When the server receives a <check> command that includes the extension elements described
above, its response
<fee:chkData> element. The <fee:chkData> element
<fee:cd> element for each object referenced in the client <check> command.

 contain an <extension> element, which

 contain a <fee:currency> element and a

 contain a child

MUST

MUST

MUST

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

Each <fee:cd> (check data) element

MUST

 contain the following child elements:

•

A <fee:objID> element, which
command.

MUST

 match an element referenced in the client <check>

•

An

OPTIONAL

 <fee:class> element (as described in Section 3.7).

•

MAY

 have the

A <fee:command> element matching each <fee:command> (unless the "avail" attribute of the
<fee:cd> is false) that appeared in the corresponding <fee:check> of the client command. This
 "standard" attribute, with a default value of "0" (or "false"),
element
which indicates whether the fee is the standard or default fee (see Section 3.7). This element
MAY
attributes in the corresponding <fee:command> element of the client command if sent by the
client.

 "phase" and "subphase" attributes, which will match the same

 have the

OPTIONAL

OPTIONAL

OPTIONAL

The <fee:cd> element also has an
 "avail" attribute, which is a boolean. If the value of
this attribute evaluates to false, this indicates that the server cannot calculate the relevant fees
because the object, command, currency, period, class, or some combination is invalid per server
policy. If "avail" is false, then the <fee:cd> or the <fee:command> element
<fee:reason> element (as described in Section 3.9), and the server
the <fee:command> element(s).

 eliminate some or all of

 contain a

MUST

MAY

The <fee:command> element(s)

MAY

 have the following child elements:

•

OPTIONAL

An
 <fee:period> element (as described in Section 3.3), which contains the same
unit, if present, that appeared in the <fee:period> element of the command. If the value of
the parent <fee:command> element is "restore", this element
otherwise, it
command is not "restore"), then the server

 be included. If no <fee:period> appeared in the client command (and the

 return its default period value.

 be included;

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

•

Zero or more <fee:fee> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

•

Zero or more <fee:credit> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

•

An

OPTIONAL

 <fee:reason> element (as described in Section 3.9).

If the "avail" attribute of the <fee:cd> element is true (1) and if no <fee:fee> elements are present
in a <fee:command> element, this indicates that no fee will be assessed by the server for this
command.

If the "avail" attribute of the <fee:cd> element is true (1), then the <fee:command> element
NOT

 contain a <fee:reason> element.

MUST

Example <check> response:

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

S: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
S: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:     <result code="1000">
S:       <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:     </result>
S:     <resData>
S:       <domain:chkData
S:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
S:         <domain:cd>
S:           <domain:name avail="1">example.com</domain:name>
S:         </domain:cd>
S:         <domain:cd>
S:           <domain:name avail="1">example.net</domain:name>
S:         </domain:cd>
S:         <domain:cd>
S:           <domain:name avail="1">example.xyz</domain:name>
S:         </domain:cd>
S:       </domain:chkData>
S:     </resData>
S:     <extension>
S:       <fee:chkData
S:           xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0">
S:         <fee:currency>USD</fee:currency>
S:         <fee:cd avail="1">
S:           <fee:objID>example.com</fee:objID>
S:           <fee:class>Premium</fee:class>
S:           <fee:command name="create">
S:             <fee:period unit="y">2</fee:period>
S:             <fee:fee
S:               description="Registration Fee"
S:               refundable="1"
S:               grace-period="P5D">10.00</fee:fee>
S:           </fee:command>
S:           <fee:command name="renew">
S:             <fee:period unit="y">1</fee:period>
S:             <fee:fee
S:               description="Renewal Fee"
S:               refundable="1"
S:               grace-period="P5D">10.00</fee:fee>
S:           </fee:command>
S:           <fee:command name="transfer">
S:             <fee:period unit="y">1</fee:period>
S:             <fee:fee
S:               description="Transfer Fee"
S:               refundable="1"
S:               grace-period="P5D">10.00</fee:fee>
S:           </fee:command>
S:           <fee:command name="restore">
S:             <fee:fee
S:               description="Redemption Fee">15.00</fee:fee>
S:           </fee:command>
S:         </fee:cd>
S:         <fee:cd avail="1">
S:           <fee:objID>example.net</fee:objID>
S:           <fee:class>standard</fee:class>
S:           <fee:command name="create" standard="1">

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

S:             <fee:period unit="y">2</fee:period>
S:             <fee:fee
S:               description="Registration Fee"
S:               refundable="1"
S:               grace-period="P5D">5.00</fee:fee>
S:           </fee:command>
S:           <fee:command name="renew" standard="1">
S:             <fee:period unit="y">1</fee:period>
S:             <fee:fee
S:               description="Renewal Fee"
S:               refundable="1"
S:               grace-period="P5D">5.00</fee:fee>
S:           </fee:command>
S:           <fee:command name="transfer" standard="1">
S:             <fee:period unit="y">1</fee:period>
S:             <fee:fee
S:               description="Transfer Fee"
S:               refundable="1"
S:               grace-period="P5D">5.00</fee:fee>
S:           </fee:command>
S:           <fee:command name="restore" standard="1">
S:             <fee:fee
S:               description="Redemption Fee">5.00</fee:fee>
S:           </fee:command>
S:         </fee:cd>
S:         <fee:cd avail="0">
S:           <fee:objID>example.xyz</fee:objID>
S:           <fee:command name="create">
S:             <fee:period unit="y">2</fee:period>
S:             <fee:reason>Only 1 year registration periods are
S:               valid.</fee:reason>
S:           </fee:command>
S:         </fee:cd>
S:       </fee:chkData>
S:     </extension>
S:     <trID>
S:       <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:       <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:     </trID>
S:   </response>
S: </epp>

5.1.2.  EPP Transfer Query Command

This extension does not add any elements to the EPP <transfer> query command, but it does
include elements in the response when the extension is included in the <login> command service
extensions.

When the <transfer> query command has been processed successfully, if the client has included
the extension in the <login> command service <svcExtension> element, and if the client is
authorized by the server to view information about the transfer, then the server
the <extension> section of the EPP response a <fee:trnData> element, which contains the
following child elements:

 include in

MAY

•

A <fee:currency> element (as described in Section 3.2).

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

•

A <fee:period> element (as described in Section 3.3).

•

Zero or more <fee:fee> elements (as described in Section 3.4) containing the fees that will be
charged to the gaining client.

•

Zero or more <fee:credit> elements (as described in Section 3.4) containing the credits that
will be refunded to the losing client.

SHOULD

Servers
<fee:fee> elements when returning a response to the losing client.

 omit <fee:credit> when returning a response to the gaining client and omit

If no <fee:trnData> element is included in the response, then no fee will be assessed by the server
for the transfer.

Example <transfer> query response:

S: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
S: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:     <result code="1001">
S:       <msg>Command completed successfully; action pending</msg>
S:     </result>
S:     <resData>
S:       <domain:trnData
S:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
S:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
S:         <domain:trStatus>pending</domain:trStatus>
S:         <domain:reID>ClientX</domain:reID>
S:         <domain:reDate>2019-06-08T22:00:00.0Z</domain:reDate>
S:         <domain:acID>ClientY</domain:acID>
S:         <domain:acDate>2019-06-13T22:00:00.0Z</domain:acDate>
S:         <domain:exDate>2021-09-08T22:00:00.0Z</domain:exDate>
S:       </domain:trnData>
S:     </resData>
S:     <extension>
S:       <fee:trnData xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0">
S:         <fee:currency>USD</fee:currency>
S:         <fee:period unit="y">1</fee:period>
S:         <fee:fee>5.00</fee:fee>
S:       </fee:trnData>
S:     </extension>
S:     <trID>
S:       <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:       <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:     </trID>
S:   </response>
S: </epp>

5.2.  EPP Transform Commands

5.2.1.  EPP <create> Command

This extension adds elements to both the EPP <create> command and response when the
extension is included in the <login> command service extensions.

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

When submitting a <create> command to the server, the client
element a <fee:create> element, which includes the following child elements:

MAY

 include in the <extension>

•

An

OPTIONAL

 <fee:currency> element (as described in Section 3.2).

•

One or more <fee:fee> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

When the <create> command has been processed successfully, the client included the extension
in the <login> command service extensions, and a fee was assessed by the server for the
transaction, the server
<fee:creData> element, which contains the following child elements:

 include in the <extension> section of the EPP response a

MUST

•

A <fee:currency> element (as described in Section 3.2).

•

Zero or more <fee:fee> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

•

Zero or more <fee:credit> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

•

An

OPTIONAL

•

An

OPTIONAL

 <fee:balance> element (as described in Section 3.5).

 <fee:creditLimit> element (as described in Section 3.6).

Example <create> command:

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <create>
C:       <domain:create
C:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
C:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
C:         <domain:period unit="y">2</domain:period>
C:         <domain:ns>
C:           <domain:hostObj>ns1.example.net</domain:hostObj>
C:           <domain:hostObj>ns2.example.net</domain:hostObj>
C:         </domain:ns>
C:         <domain:registrant>jd1234</domain:registrant>
C:         <domain:contact type="admin">sh8013</domain:contact>
C:         <domain:contact type="tech">sh8013</domain:contact>
C:         <domain:authInfo>
C:           <domain:pw>2fooBAR</domain:pw>
C:         </domain:authInfo>
C:       </domain:create>
C:     </create>
C:     <extension>
C:       <fee:create xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0">
C:         <fee:currency>USD</fee:currency>
C:         <fee:fee>5.00</fee:fee>
C:       </fee:create>
C:     </extension>
C:     <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

Example <create> response:

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

S: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
S: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:     <result code="1000">
S:       <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:     </result>
S:     <resData>
S:       <domain:creData
S:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
S:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
S:         <domain:crDate>2019-04-03T22:00:00.0Z</domain:crDate>
S:         <domain:exDate>2021-04-03T22:00:00.0Z</domain:exDate>
S:       </domain:creData>
S:     </resData>
S:     <extension>
S:       <fee:creData xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0">
S:         <fee:currency>USD</fee:currency>
S:         <fee:fee
S:           description="Registration Fee"
S:           lang="en"
S:           refundable="1"
S:           grace-period="P5D">5.00</fee:fee>
S:         <fee:balance>-5.00</fee:balance>
S:         <fee:creditLimit>1000.00</fee:creditLimit>
S:       </fee:creData>
S:     </extension>
S:     <trID>
S:       <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:       <svTRID>54321-XYZ</svTRID>
S:     </trID>
S:   </response>
S: </epp>

5.2.2.  EPP <delete> Command

This extension does not add any elements to the EPP <delete> command, but it does include
elements in the response when the extension is included in the <login> command service
extensions.

When the <delete> command has been processed successfully and the client included the
extension in the <login> command service extensions, the server
section of the EPP response a <fee:delData> element, which contains the following child
elements:

MAY

 include in the <extension>

•

A <fee:currency> element (as described in Section 3.2).

•

Zero or more <fee:fee> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

•

Zero or more <fee:credit> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

•

An

OPTIONAL

•

An

OPTIONAL

 <fee:balance> element (as described in Section 3.5).

 <fee:creditLimit> element (as described in Section 3.6).

Example <delete> response:

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

S: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
S: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:     <result code="1000">
S:       <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:     </result>
S:     <extension>
S:       <fee:delData
S:         xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0">
S:         <fee:currency>USD</fee:currency>
S:         <fee:credit
S:           description="AGP Credit"
S:           lang="en">-5.00</fee:credit>
S:         <fee:balance>1005.00</fee:balance>
S:       </fee:delData>
S:     </extension>
S:     <trID>
S:       <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:       <svTRID>54321-XYZ</svTRID>
S:     </trID>
S:   </response>
S: </epp>

5.2.3.  EPP <renew> Command

This extension adds elements to both the EPP <renew> command and response when the
extension is included in the <login> command service extensions.

When submitting a <renew> command to the server, the client
element a <fee:renew> element, which includes the following child elements:

MAY

 include in the <extension>

•

An

OPTIONAL

 <fee:currency> element (as described in Section 3.2).

•

One or more <fee:fee> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

When the <renew> command has been processed successfully and the client included the
extension in the <login> command service extensions, the server
section of the EPP response a <fee:renData> element, which contains the following child
elements:

MAY

 include in the <extension>

•

A <fee:currency> element (as described in Section 3.2).

•

Zero or more <fee:fee> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

•

Zero or more <fee:credit> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

•

An

OPTIONAL

•

An

OPTIONAL

 <fee:balance> element (as described in Section 3.5).

 <fee:creditLimit> element (as described in Section 3.6).

Example <renew> command:

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <renew>
C:       <domain:renew
C:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
C:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
C:         <domain:curExpDate>2019-04-03</domain:curExpDate>
C:         <domain:period unit="y">5</domain:period>
C:       </domain:renew>
C:     </renew>
C:     <extension>
C:       <fee:renew xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0">
C:         <fee:currency>USD</fee:currency>
C:         <fee:fee>5.00</fee:fee>
C:       </fee:renew>
C:     </extension>
C:     <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

Example <renew> response:

S: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
S: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:     <result code="1000">
S:       <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:     </result>
S:     <resData>
S:       <domain:renData
S:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
S:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
S:         <domain:exDate>2024-04-03T22:00:00.0Z</domain:exDate>
S:       </domain:renData>
S:     </resData>
S:     <extension>
S:       <fee:renData xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0">
S:         <fee:currency>USD</fee:currency>
S:         <fee:fee
S:           refundable="1"
S:           grace-period="P5D">5.00</fee:fee>
S:         <fee:balance>1000.00</fee:balance>
S:       </fee:renData>
S:     </extension>
S:     <trID>
S:       <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:       <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:     </trID>
S:   </response>
S: </epp>

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

5.2.4.  EPP <transfer> Command

This extension adds elements to both the EPP <transfer> command and response when the value
of the "op" attribute of the <transfer> command element is "request" and the extension is
included in the <login> command service extensions.

When submitting a <transfer> command to the server, the client
element a <fee:transfer> element, which includes the following child elements:

MAY

 include in the <extension>

•

An

OPTIONAL

 <fee:currency> element (as described in Section 3.2).

•

One or more <fee:fee> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

When the <transfer> command has been processed successfully and the client included the
extension in the <login> command service extensions, the server
section of the EPP response a <fee:trnData> element, which contains the following child
elements:

MAY

 include in the <extension>

•

A <fee:currency> element (as described in Section 3.2).

•

Zero or more <fee:fee> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

•

Zero or more <fee:credit> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

•

An

OPTIONAL

•

An

OPTIONAL

 <fee:balance> element (as described in Section 3.5).

 <fee:creditLimit> element (as described in Section 3.6).

Example <transfer> command:

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <transfer op="request">
C:       <domain:transfer
C:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
C:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
C:         <domain:period unit="y">1</domain:period>
C:         <domain:authInfo>
C:           <domain:pw roid="JD1234-REP">2fooBAR</domain:pw>
C:         </domain:authInfo>
C:       </domain:transfer>
C:     </transfer>
C:     <extension>
C:      <fee:transfer xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0">
C:        <fee:currency>USD</fee:currency>
C:        <fee:fee>5.00</fee:fee>
C:      </fee:transfer>
C:     </extension>
C:     <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

Example <transfer> response:

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

S: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
S: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:     <result code="1001">
S:       <msg>Command completed successfully; action pending</msg>
S:     </result>
S:     <resData>
S:       <domain:trnData
S:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
S:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
S:         <domain:trStatus>pending</domain:trStatus>
S:         <domain:reID>ClientX</domain:reID>
S:         <domain:reDate>2019-06-08T22:00:00.0Z</domain:reDate>
S:         <domain:acID>ClientY</domain:acID>
S:         <domain:acDate>2019-06-13T22:00:00.0Z</domain:acDate>
S:         <domain:exDate>2021-09-08T22:00:00.0Z</domain:exDate>
S:       </domain:trnData>
S:     </resData>
S:     <extension>
S:       <fee:trnData xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0">
S:         <fee:currency>USD</fee:currency>
S:         <fee:fee
S:           refundable="1"
S:           grace-period="P5D">5.00</fee:fee>
S:       </fee:trnData>
S:     </extension>
S:     <trID>
S:       <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:       <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:     </trID>
S:   </response>
S: </epp>

5.2.5.  EPP <update> Command

This extension adds elements to both the EPP <update> command and response when the
extension is included in the <login> command service extensions.

When submitting an <update> command to the server, the client
element a <fee:update> element, which includes the following child elements:

MAY

 include in the <extension>

•

An

OPTIONAL

 <fee:currency> element (as described in Section 3.2).

•

One or more <fee:fee> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

When the <update> command has been processed successfully and the client included the
extension in the <login> command service extensions, the server
section of the EPP response a <fee:updData> element, which contains the following child
elements:

MAY

 include in the <extension>

•

A <fee:currency> element (as described in Section 3.2).

•

Zero or more <fee:fee> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

•

Zero or more <fee:credit> elements (as described in Section 3.4).

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

•

An

OPTIONAL

•

An

OPTIONAL

 <fee:balance> element (as described in Section 3.5).

 <fee:creditLimit> element (as described in Section 3.6).

Example <update> command:

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <update>
C:       <domain:update
C:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
C:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
C:         <domain:chg>
C:           <domain:registrant>sh8013</domain:registrant>
C:         </domain:chg>
C:       </domain:update>
C:     </update>
C:     <extension>
C:       <fee:update xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0">
C:         <fee:currency>USD</fee:currency>
C:         <fee:fee>5.00</fee:fee>
C:       </fee:update>
C:     </extension>
C:     <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

Example <update> response:

S: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
S: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:     <result code="1000">
S:       <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:     </result>
S:     <extension>
S:       <fee:updData xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0">
S:         <fee:currency>USD</fee:currency>
S:         <fee:fee>5.00</fee:fee>
S:       </fee:updData>
S:     </extension>
S:     <trID>
S:       <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:       <svTRID>54321-XYZ</svTRID>
S:     </trID>
S:   </response>
S: </epp>

6.  Formal Syntax

One schema is presented here -- the EPP Fee Extension schema.

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

The formal syntax presented here is a complete schema representation of the object mapping
suitable for automated validation of EPP XML instances.

6.1.  Fee Extension Schema

The formal syntax presented here is a complete schema representation
xmlschema-1-20041028]
instances. The <CODE BEGINS> and <CODE ENDS> tags are not part of the schema; they are used
to note the beginning and end of the schema for URI registration purposes.

 of the object mapping suitable for automated validation of EPP XML

[W3C.REC-

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

<CODE BEGINS>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<schema xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
  xmlns:fee="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0"
  xmlns:eppcom="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:eppcom-1.0"
  xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0"
  targetNamespace="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0"
  elementFormDefault="qualified">

  <import namespace="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:eppcom-1.0" />
  <import namespace="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0" />

  <annotation>
    <documentation>
      Extensible Provisioning Protocol v1.0 Fee Extension
    </documentation>
  </annotation>

  <!-- Child elements found in EPP commands and responses -->
  <element name="check" type="fee:checkType" />
  <element name="chkData" type="fee:chkDataType" />
  <element name="create" type="fee:transformCommandType" />
  <element name="creData" type="fee:transformResultType" />
  <element name="renew" type="fee:transformCommandType" />
  <element name="renData" type="fee:transformResultType" />
  <element name="transfer" type="fee:transformCommandType" />
  <element name="trnData" type="fee:transformResultType" />
  <element name="update" type="fee:transformCommandType" />
  <element name="updData" type="fee:transformResultType" />
  <element name="delData" type="fee:transformResultType" />

  <!-- client <check> command -->
  <complexType name="checkType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="currency" type="fee:currencyType"
        minOccurs="0" />
      <element name="command" type="fee:commandType"
        minOccurs="1" maxOccurs="unbounded" />
    </sequence>
  </complexType>

  <complexType name="objectIdentifierType">
    <simpleContent>
      <extension base="eppcom:labelType">
        <attribute name="element"
        type="NMTOKEN" default="name" />
      </extension>
    </simpleContent>
  </complexType>

  <!-- server <check> result -->
  <complexType name="chkDataType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="currency" type="fee:currencyType" />
      <element name="cd" type="fee:objectCDType"
        maxOccurs="unbounded" />
    </sequence>

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

  </complexType>

  <complexType name="objectCDType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="objID" type="fee:objectIdentifierType" />
      <element name="class" type="token" minOccurs="0" />
      <element name="command" type="fee:commandDataType"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded" />
      <element name="reason" type="fee:reasonType" minOccurs="0" />
    </sequence>
    <attribute name="avail" type="boolean" default="1" />
  </complexType>

  <!-- general transform (create, renew, update, transfer) command-->
  <complexType name="transformCommandType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="currency" type="fee:currencyType"
        minOccurs="0" />
      <element name="fee" type="fee:feeType"
        maxOccurs="unbounded" />
      <element name="credit" type="fee:creditType"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded" />
    </sequence>
  </complexType>

  <!-- general transform (create, renew, update) result -->
  <complexType name="transformResultType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="currency" type="fee:currencyType"
        minOccurs="0" />
      <element name="period" type="domain:periodType"
        minOccurs="0" />
      <element name="fee" type="fee:feeType"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded" />
      <element name="credit" type="fee:creditType"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded" />
      <element name="balance" type="fee:balanceType"
        minOccurs="0" />
      <element name="creditLimit" type="fee:creditLimitType"
        minOccurs="0" />
    </sequence>
  </complexType>

  <!-- common types -->
  <simpleType name="currencyType">
    <restriction base="string">
      <pattern value="[A-Z]{3}" />
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>

  <complexType name="commandType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="period" type="domain:periodType"
        minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="1" />
    </sequence>
    <attribute name="name" type="fee:commandEnum" use="required"/>
    <attribute name="customName" type="token"/>
    <attribute name="phase" type="token" />

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

    <attribute name="subphase" type="token" />
  </complexType>

  <complexType name="commandDataType">
    <complexContent>
      <extension base="fee:commandType">
        <sequence>
          <element name="fee" type="fee:feeType"
            minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded" />
          <element name="credit" type="fee:creditType"
            minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded" />
          <element name="reason" type="fee:reasonType"
            minOccurs="0" />
        </sequence>
        <attribute name="standard" type="boolean" default="0" />
      </extension>
    </complexContent>
  </complexType>

  <complexType name="reasonType">
    <simpleContent>
      <extension base="token">
        <attribute name="lang" type="language" default="en"/>
      </extension>
    </simpleContent>
  </complexType>

  <simpleType name="commandEnum">
    <restriction base="token">
      <enumeration value="create"/>
      <enumeration value="delete"/>
      <enumeration value="renew"/>
      <enumeration value="update"/>
      <enumeration value="transfer"/>
      <enumeration value="restore"/>
      <enumeration value="custom"/>
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>

  <simpleType name="nonNegativeDecimal">
    <restriction base="decimal">
      <minInclusive value="0" />
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>

  <simpleType name="negativeDecimal">
    <restriction base="decimal">
      <maxInclusive value="0" />
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>

  <complexType name="feeType">
    <simpleContent>
      <extension base="fee:nonNegativeDecimal">
        <attribute name="description"/>
        <attribute name="lang" type="language" default="en"/>
        <attribute name="refundable" type="boolean" />
        <attribute name="grace-period" type="duration" />

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

        <attribute name="applied">
          <simpleType>
            <restriction base="token">
              <enumeration value="immediate" />
              <enumeration value="delayed" />
            </restriction>
          </simpleType>
        </attribute>
      </extension>
    </simpleContent>
  </complexType>

  <complexType name="creditType">
    <simpleContent>
      <extension base="fee:negativeDecimal">
        <attribute name="description"/>
        <attribute name="lang" type="language" default="en"/>
      </extension>
    </simpleContent>
  </complexType>

  <simpleType name="balanceType">
    <restriction base="decimal" />
  </simpleType>

  <simpleType name="creditLimitType">
    <restriction base="decimal" />
  </simpleType>

</schema>

<CODE ENDS>

7.  Security Considerations

[RFC5730]

, the EPP domain name mapping

The mapping extensions described in this document do not provide any security services beyond
those described by the EPP
protocol layers used by the EPP. The security considerations described in these other
speciﬁcations apply to this speciﬁcation as well. This extension passes ﬁnancial information
using the EPP protocol, so conﬁdentiality and integrity protection must be provided by the
transport mechanism. All transports compliant with
 provide the needed level of
conﬁdentiality and integrity protections. The server will only provide information, including
ﬁnancial information, that is relevant to the authenticated client.

[RFC5730]

[RFC5731]

, and the

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  XML Namespace

This document uses URNs to describe XML namespaces and XML schemas conforming to a
registry mechanism described in

[RFC3688]
.

Registration request for the fee namespace:

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

URI: urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:fee-1.0

Registrant Contact: IESG

XML: None. Namespace URIs do not represent an XML speciﬁcation.

Registration request for the fee schema:

URI: urn:ietf:params:xml:schema:epp:fee-1.0

Registrant Contact: IESG

XML: See Section 6 of this document.

8.2.  EPP Extension Registry

The EPP extension described in this document has been registered by IANA in the "Extensions for
the Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" registry described in
registration are as follows:

. The details of the

[RFC7451]

Name of Extension: Registry Fee Extension for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)

Document status: Standards Track

Reference: RFC 8748

Registrant Name and Email Address: IESG <iesg@ietf.org>

TLDs: Any

IPR Disclosure: None

Status: Active

Notes: None

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[ISO4217_2015]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3688]

ISO "Codes for the representation of currencies" ISO 4217:2015

,

,

, August 2015,

<https://www.iso.org/standard/64758.html>

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
January 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>

,
.

,

,

,

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

[RFC3915]

[RFC5646]

[RFC5730]

[RFC5731]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8334]

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Domain Registry Grace Period Mapping for the Extensible
Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" RFC 3915 DOI 10.17487/RFC3915
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3915>

,

,

.

, September 2004,

Phillips, A., Ed. and M. Davis, Ed. "Tags for Identifying Languages" BCP 47 RFC
5646 DOI 10.17487/RFC5646
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc5646>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

.

Hollenbeck, S. "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" STD 69 RFC 5730 DOI
10.17487/RFC5730

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5730>

, August 2009,

,
.

,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) Domain Name Mapping"
,
STD 69 RFC 5731 DOI 10.17487/RFC5731
editor.org/info/rfc5731>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2009,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Gould, J., Tan, W., and G. Brown "Launch Phase Mapping for the Extensible
, March 2018,
Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" RFC 8334 DOI 10.17487/RFC8334
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8334>

.

,

,

,

[W3C.REC-xmlschema-1-20041028]

Thompson, H., Beech, D., Maloney, M., and N. Mendelsohn
"XML Schema Part 1: Structures Second Edition" World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation REC-xmlschema-1-20041028
www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-xmlschema-1-20041028>

, October 2004,

<http://

,

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC7451]

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Extension Registry for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol"
RFC 7451 DOI 10.17487/RFC7451
info/rfc7451>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2015,

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors wish to thank the following persons for their feedback and suggestions:

• James Gould

 of Verisign Inc.

• Luis Munoz

 of ISC

• Michael Young

• Ben Levac

• Jeﬀ Eckhaus

• Seth Goldman

 of Google

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 8748

Registry Fee Extension

March 2020

• Klaus Malorny

 and

Michael Bauland

 of Knipp

• Jody Kolker Joe Snitker
,

, and

Kevin Allendorf

 of GoDaddy

• Michael Holloway

 of Com Laude

• Santosh Kalsangrah

 of Impetus Infotech

• Alex Mayrhofer

 of Nic.at

• Thomas Corte

 of Knipp Medien und Kommunikation GmbH

Authors' Addresses

Roger Carney
GoDaddy Inc.
14455 N. Hayden Rd. #219
Scottsdale AZ 85260
,
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 rcarney@godaddy.com
 http://www.godaddy.com

Gavin Brown
CentralNic Group plc
35-39 Moorgate
London
EC2R 6AR
United Kingdom
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +44 20 33 88 0600
 gavin.brown@centralnic.com

 http://www.centralnic.com

Jothan Frakes
Email:
URI:

 http://jothan.com

 jothan@jothan.com

Carney, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

