Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8880
7050
Standards Track
August 2020
2070-1721
S. Cheshire
Apple Inc.

D. Schinazi
Google LLC

RFC 8880
Special Use Domain Name 'ipv4only.arpa'

Abstract

NAT64 (Network Address and Protocol Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers) allows
client devices using IPv6 to communicate with servers that have only IPv4 connectivity.

The speciﬁcation for how a client discovers its local network's NAT64 preﬁx (RFC 7050) deﬁnes
the special name 'ipv4only.arpa' for this purpose. However, in its Domain Name Reservation
Considerations section (Section 8.1), that speciﬁcation (RFC 7050) indicates that the name actually
has no particularly special properties that would require special handling.

Consequently, despite the well-articulated special purpose of the name, 'ipv4only.arpa' was not
recorded in the Special-Use Domain Names registry as a name with special properties.

This document updates RFC 7050. It describes the special treatment required and formally
declares the special properties of the name. It also adds similar declarations for the
corresponding reverse mapping names.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8880

.

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions and Terminology

2.  Reasons to Declare 'ipv4only.arpa' as Special

3.  Consequences of 'ipv4only.arpa' Not Being Declared Special

3.1.  Consequences for Name Resolution APIs and Libraries

3.2.  Consequences for DNS64 Implementations

4.  Remedies

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Domain Name Reservation Considerations

7.1.  Special Use Domain Name 'ipv4only.arpa'

7.2.  Names '170.0.0.192.in‑addr.arpa' and '171.0.0.192.in‑addr.arpa'

7.2.1.  ip6.arpa Reverse Mapping PTR Records

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Example BIND 9 Conﬁguration

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

NAT64 (Network Address and Protocol Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers) [RFC6146]
allows client devices using IPv6 to communicate with servers that have only IPv4 connectivity.

DNS64 (DNS Extensions for Network Address Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers)
[RFC6147]
servers that have no IPv6 address of their own, or by communicating the local network's NAT64
preﬁx to clients so that they can perform the IPv6 address synthesis themselves.

 facilitates use of NAT64 by clients by generating synthesized IPv6 addresses for IPv4

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

how a client discovers its local network's NAT64 preﬁx [RFC7050]
The speciﬁcation for
the special name 'ipv4only.arpa' for this purpose, but in its Domain Name Reservation
Considerations section (Section 8.1), that speciﬁcation
has no particularly special properties that would require special handling and does not request
IANA to record the name in the

Special-Use Domain Names registry [SUDN]

 indicates that the name actually

[RFC7050]

 deﬁnes

.

Consequently, despite the well-articulated special purpose of the name, 'ipv4only.arpa' was not
 as a name with special properties.
recorded in the

Special-Use Domain Names registry [SUDN]

This omission was discussed in the document
.
[RFC8244]

"Special-Use Domain Names Problem Statement"

As a result of this omission, in cases where software needs to give this name special treatment in
order for it to work correctly, there was no clear mandate authorizing software authors to
implement that special treatment. Software implementers were left with the choice between not
implementing the special behavior necessary for the name queries to work correctly or
implementing the special behavior and being accused of being noncompliant with IETF DNS
speciﬁcations.

This document describes the special treatment required, formally declares the special properties
of the name, and adds similar declarations for the corresponding reverse mapping names.

1.1.  Conventions and Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Reasons to Declare 'ipv4only.arpa' as Special

The hostname 'ipv4only.arpa' is peculiar in that it was never intended to be treated like a normal
hostname.

A typical client never has any reason to look up the IPv4 address records for 'ipv4only.arpa': no
normal user is ever trying to view a website hosted at that domain name or trying to send email
to an email address at that domain name. The name 'ipv4only.arpa' is already known,
speciﬁcation [RFC7050]
client ever has to look up the name in order to learn those two addresses.

, to have exactly two IPv4 address records: 192.0.0.170 and 192.0.0.171. No

by IETF

In contrast, clients often look up the IPv6 AAAA address records for 'ipv4only.arpa', which is
contrary to general DNS expectations, given that it is already known,
, that 'ipv4only.arpa' is an IPv4-only name, and it has no IPv6 AAAA address records.
[RFC7050]
And yet, clients expect to receive, and do in fact receive, positive answers for these IPv6 AAAA
address records that apparently should not exist.

by IETF speciﬁcation

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

This odd query behavior comes not because clients are using DNS to learn legitimate answers
from the name's legitimate authoritative server, but because the DNS protocol has, in eﬀect, been
co-opted as an improvised client-to-middlebox communication protocol to look for a DNS64/
[RFC6147] [RFC6146]
NAT64
is using for IPv6 address synthesis.

 gateway and, if one is present, to request that it disclose the preﬁx it

This use of specially crafted DNS queries as an improvised client-to-middlebox communication
protocol has a number of speciﬁc consequences, outlined below, which client software needs to
take into account if the queries are to produce the desired results. This is particularly true when
used on a multihomed host or when a VPN tunnel is in use. The name 'ipv4only.arpa' is most
deﬁnitely a special name and needs to be listed in IANA's registry along with
.
that have special uses [SUDN]

other DNS names

3.  Consequences of 'ipv4only.arpa' Not Being Declared Special

the original speciﬁcation [RFC7050]

 not formally declaring 'ipv4only.arpa' to have
As a result of
special properties, there was no clear mandate for DNS software to treat this name specially. In
particular, this lack of mandate for special treatment is relevant (a) to the name resolution APIs
 implementations. These two aspects
and libraries on client devices and (b) to DNS64
are discussed in more detail below.

[RFC6147]

3.1.  Consequences for Name Resolution APIs and Libraries

A serious problem can occur with DNS64/NAT64 when a device is conﬁgured to use a recursive
resolver other than the one it learned from the network.

A device joining a NAT64 network will learn the recursive resolver recommended for that
IPv6 Router Advertisement Options [RFC8106]
network, typically via
On a NAT64 network, it is essential that the client use the DNS64 recursive resolver
recommended for that network, since only that recursive resolver can be relied upon to know
the appropriate preﬁx(es) to use for synthesizing IPv6 addresses that will be acceptable to that
NAT64 gateway.

DHCPv6 [RFC3646]

 or via

.

However, it is becoming increasingly common for users to manually override their default DNS
conﬁguration because they wish to use some other public recursive resolver on the Internet,
which may oﬀer better speed, reliability, or privacy than the local network's default recursive
resolver. At the time of writing, examples of widely known public recursive resolver services
include

Cloudﬂare Public DNS [DNS1] Google Public DNS [DNS8]

.
Quad9 [DNS9]

, and

,

Another common scenario is the use of corporate or personal VPN client software. Both for
privacy reasons and because the local network's recursive resolver will typically be unable to
provide answers for the company's private internal host names, VPN client software usually
overrides the local network's default conﬁguration to divert some or all DNS requests so that
they go to the company's own private internal recursive resolver instead of to the default
recursive resolver the client learned from its local network. (The company's own private internal
recursive resolvers typically have addresses that are themselves reached through the VPN
tunnel, not via the public Internet.) As with the case described above of public recursive resolver

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

services, the company's private internal recursive resolver cannot be expected to be able to
synthesize IPv6 addresses correctly for use with the local network's NAT64 gateway, because the
company's private internal recursive resolver is unlikely to be aware of the NAT64 preﬁx in use
on the NAT64 network to which the client device is currently attached. It is clear that a single
recursive resolver cannot meet both needs. The local network's recursive resolver cannot be
expected to give answers for some unknown company's private internal host names, and a
company's private internal recursive resolver cannot be expected to give correctly synthesized
IPv6 addresses suitable for some unknown local network's NAT64 gateway.

Note that multiple NAT64 services may be simultaneously available to a client. For example, the
local network may provide NAT64 service (to allow an IPv6-only client device to access IPv4-only
Internet services), while at the same time, a corporate VPN may also provide NAT64 service (to
allow a client connecting via an IPv6-only VPN tunnel to access IPv4-only corporate services). The
NAT64 address synthesis preﬁxes for the two NAT64 services may be diﬀerent. In this case, it is
essential that the NAT64 address synthesis preﬁx used on the local network be the preﬁx learned
from the local network's recursive resolver, and the NAT64 address synthesis preﬁx used on the
VPN tunnel be the preﬁx learned from the VPN tunnel's recursive resolver.

The diﬃculty here arises because DNS is being used for two unrelated purposes. The ﬁrst
purpose is retrieving data from a (nominally) global database, generally retrieving the IP address
(es) associated with a hostname. The second purpose is using the DNS protocol as a middlebox
communication protocol, to interrogate the local network infrastructure to discover the IPv6
preﬁx(es) in use by the local NAT64 gateway for address synthesis.

3.2.  Consequences for DNS64 Implementations

As a result of there being no mandate for special treatment, queries for 'ipv4only.arpa' had to be
handled normally, resulting in DNS64 gateways performing unnecessary queries to the
authoritative 'arpa' name servers, both unnecessary IPv6 address record queries (DNS qtype
"AAAA", always returning negative responses) and unnecessary IPv4 address record queries
(DNS qtype "A", always returning the same positive responses).

Having DNS64 gateways around the world issue these queries generated additional load on the
authoritative 'arpa' name servers, which was redundant when the name 'ipv4only.arpa' is
deﬁned,
and 192.0.0.171, and no other IPv4 or IPv6 address records.

, to have exactly two IPv4 address records, 192.0.0.170

by IETF speciﬁcation [RFC7050]

Also, at times, for reasons that remain unclear, the authoritative 'arpa' name servers have been
observed to be slow or unresponsive. The failures of these 'ipv4only.arpa' queries result in
unnecessary failures of the DNS64 gateways and of the client devices that depend on them for
DNS64 [RFC6147]

 address synthesis.

Even when the authoritative 'arpa' name servers are operating correctly, having to perform an
unnecessary query to obtain an answer that is already known in advance can add precious
milliseconds of delay, aﬀecting user experience on the client devices waiting for those
synthesized replies.

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

4.  Remedies

This document leverages operational experience to update the
Considerations section [RFC6761]
that more accurately lists the actual special properties of the name 'ipv4only.arpa', so that
software can legitimately implement the correct behavior necessary for better performance,
better reliability, and correct operation.

the earlier preﬁx discovery speciﬁcation [RFC7050]

Domain Name Reservation

 of

 with one

These changes aﬀect two bodies of software: (a) the name resolution APIs and libraries on client
devices, and (b) DNS64 implementations.

The new special rules speciﬁed in this document for name resolution APIs and libraries state
how they should select which recursive resolver to query to learn the IPv6 address synthesis
preﬁx in use on a particular physical or virtual interface. Speciﬁcally, when querying for the
name 'ipv4only.arpa', name resolution APIs and libraries should use the recursive resolver
recommended by the network for the interface in question rather than a recursive resolver
conﬁgured manually, a recursive resolver conﬁgured by VPN software, or a full-service recursive
resolver running on the local host. Superﬁcially, this might seem like a security issue, since the
user might have explicitly conﬁgured the particular DNS resolver they wish to use, and rather
than using that, the name resolution code ignores the user's stated preference and uses
untrusted input received from the network instead. However, the 'ipv4only.arpa' query is not
really a DNS query in the usual sense; even though it may look like a DNS query, it is actually an
improvised client-to-middlebox communication protocol in disguise. For NAT64 to work at all, it
is necessary for the interface on which NAT64 translation is being performed to tell the host the
address of the DNS64 recursive resolver the host must use to learn the NAT64 preﬁx being used
by that NAT64. This is typically done via
Conﬁguration [RFC8106]

.
DNS Conﬁguration options for DHCPv6 [RFC3646]

IPv6 Router Advertisement Options for DNS

 or via

The new special rules speciﬁed in this document for DNS64 implementations recommend that
they avoid performing run-time network queries for values that are known to be ﬁxed by
speciﬁcation.

NAT64 Preﬁx Discovery [RFC7050]

A useful property of the way
it allowed for incremental deployment. Even if existing DNS64 gateways, that were unaware of
the special 'ipv4only.arpa' name, were already deployed, once IANA created the appropriate
'ipv4only.arpa' records, clients could begin to use the new facility immediately. Clients could send
their special queries for 'ipv4only.arpa' to an ipv4only-unaware DNS64 gateway, and, as a side
eﬀect of its usual query processing (after a query to IANA's servers), the DNS64 gateway would
then generate the correct synthesized response.

 was originally speciﬁed was that

While this was a useful transition strategy to enable rapid adoption, it is not the ideal end
situation. For better performance, better reliability, and lower load in IANA's servers, it is
preferable for DNS64 gateways to be aware of the special 'ipv4only.arpa' name so that they can

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

avoid issuing unnecessary queries. Network operators who wish to provide reliable, high-
performance service to their customers are motivated to prefer DNS64 gateways that recognize
the special 'ipv4only.arpa' name and apply the appropriate optimizations.

5.  Security Considerations

One of the known concerns with DNS64 is that it conﬂicts with DNSSEC. If DNSSEC is used to
assert cryptographically that a name has no IPv6 AAAA records, then this interferes with using
DNS64 address synthesis to tell a client that those nonexistent IPv6 AAAA records do exist.

Section 3 of the DNS64 speciﬁcation [RFC6147]

 discusses this:

... DNS64 receives a query with the DO bit set and the CD bit set. In this case, the DNS64
is supposed to pass on all the data it gets to the query initiator. This case will not work
with DNS64, unless the validating resolver is prepared to do DNS64 itself.

 provides the mechanism for the query

NAT64 Preﬁx Discovery speciﬁcation [RFC7050]

The
initiator to learn the NAT64 preﬁx so that it can do its own validation and DNS64 synthesis as
described above. With this mechanism, the client can (i) interrogate the local DNS64/NAT64
gateway (with an 'ipv4only.arpa' query) to learn the IPv6 address synthesis preﬁx, (ii) query for
the (signed) IPv4 address records for the desired hostname and validate the response, and then
(iii) perform its own IPv6 address synthesis locally, combining the IPv6 address synthesis preﬁx
learned from the local DNS64/NAT64 gateway with the validated DNSSEC-signed data learned
from the global Domain Name System.

It is conceivable that, over time, if DNSSEC adoption continues to grow, the majority of clients
could move to this validate-and-synthesize-locally model, which reduces the DNS64 machinery to
the vestigial role of simply responding to the 'ipv4only.arpa' query to report the local IPv6
address synthesis preﬁx. At the time of publication, network operators have been observed "in
the wild" deploying NAT64 service with DNS recursive resolvers that reply to 'ipv4only.arpa'
queries but otherwise perform no other NAT64 address synthesis. In no case does the client care
what answer(s) the authoritative 'arpa' name servers might give for that query. The
'ipv4only.arpa' query is being used purely as a local client-to-middlebox communication message.

This validate-and-synthesize-locally approach is even more attractive if it does not create an
additional dependency on the authoritative 'arpa' name servers to answer a query that is
unnecessary because the DNS64/NAT64 gateway already knows the answer before it even issues
the query. Avoiding this unnecessary query improves performance and reliability for the client
and reduces unnecessary load for the authoritative 'arpa' name servers.

Hardcoding the known answers for 'ipv4only.arpa' IPv4 address record queries (DNS qtype "A")
in recursive resolvers also reduces the risk of malicious devices intercepting those queries and
returning incorrect answers. Because the 'ipv4only.arpa' zone has to be an insecure delegation
(see below), DNSSEC cannot be used to protect these answers from tampering by malicious
devices on the path.

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

With respect to the question of whether 'ipv4only.arpa' should be a secure or insecure
delegation, we need to consider two paths of information ﬂow through the network:

1.

The path from the server authoritative for 'ipv4only.arpa' to the DNS64 recursive resolver

2.

The path from the DNS64 recursive resolver to the ultimate client

The path from the authoritative server to the DNS64 recursive resolver (queries for IPv4 address
records) need not be protected by DNSSEC, because the DNS64 recursive resolver already knows,
by speciﬁcation, what the answers are. In principle, if this were a secure delegation, and
'ipv4only.arpa' were a signed zone, then the path from the authoritative server to the DNS64
recursive resolver would still work, but DNSSEC is not necessary here. Run-time cryptographic
signatures are not needed to verify compile-time constants. Validating the signatures could only
serve to introduce potential failures into the system for minimal beneﬁt.

The path from the DNS64 recursive resolver to the ultimate client (queries for IPv6 address
records) *cannot* be protected by DNSSEC because the DNS64 recursive resolver is synthesizing
IPv6 address answers and does not possess the DNSSEC secret key required to sign those
answers.

MUST

 be an insecure delegation to give DNS64/NAT64

Consequently, the 'ipv4only.arpa' zone
gateways the freedom to synthesize answers to those queries at will, without the answers being
rejected by DNSSEC-capable resolvers. DNSSEC-capable resolvers that follow this speciﬁcation
MUST NOT
records for 'ipv4only.arpa'. Note that the name 'ipv4only.arpa' has no use outside of being used
for this special DNS pseudo-query used to learn the DNS64/NAT64 address synthesis preﬁx, so the
lack of DNSSEC security for that name is not a problem.

 attempt to validate answers received in response to queries for the IPv6 AAAA address

The original

NAT64 Preﬁx Discovery speciﬁcation [RFC7050]

 stated, incorrectly:

A signed "ipv4only.arpa." allows validating DNS64 servers (see [RFC6147] Section 3, Case
5, for example) to detect malicious AAAA resource records. Therefore, the zone serving
the well-known name has to be protected with DNSSEC.

This document updates
'ipv4only.arpa' zone

MUST

 be an insecure delegation.

the previous speciﬁcation [RFC7050]

 to correct that error. The

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created an insecure delegation for 'ipv4only.arpa' to allow DNS64 recursive resolvers to
create synthesized AAAA answers within that zone.

IANA has recorded the following names in the

Special-Use Domain Names registry [SUDN]

:

ipv4only.arpa.

170.0.0.192.in‑addr.arpa.

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

171.0.0.192.in‑addr.arpa.

IANA has recorded the following IPv4 addresses in the
Registry [SUv4]

:

IANA IPv4 Special-Purpose Address

192.0.0.170

192.0.0.171

7.  Domain Name Reservation Considerations

7.1.  Special Use Domain Name 'ipv4only.arpa'

The name 'ipv4only.arpa' is deﬁned,
records with rdata 192.0.0.170 and 192.0.0.171.

by IETF speciﬁcation [RFC7050]

, to have two IPv4 address

DNS64 recursive resolver [RFC6147]

, the name 'ipv4only.arpa' is also deﬁned
When queried via a
to have IPv6 AAAA records, with rdata synthesized from a combination of the NAT64 IPv6 preﬁx
(es) and the IPv4 addresses 192.0.0.170 and 192.0.0.171. This can return more than one pair of
IPv6 addresses if there are multiple NAT64 preﬁxes.

The name 'ipv4only.arpa' has no other IPv4 or IPv6 address records. There are no subdomains of
'ipv4only.arpa'. All names falling below 'ipv4only.arpa' are deﬁned to be nonexistent
(NXDOMAIN).

The name 'ipv4only.arpa' is special to

a.

client software wishing to perform DNS64 address synthesis,

b.

APIs responsible for retrieving the correct information, and

c.

the DNS64 recursive resolver responding to such requests.

These three considerations are listed in items 2, 3, and 4 below:

1.

2.

Normal users should never have reason to encounter the 'ipv4only.arpa' domain name. If
they do, they should expect queries for 'ipv4only.arpa' to result in
the speciﬁcation [RFC7050]
special.

. Normal users have no need to know that 'ipv4only.arpa' is

the answers required by

Application software may explicitly use the name 'ipv4only.arpa' for DNS64/NAT64 address
synthesis and expect to get
application software encounters the name 'ipv4only.arpa' in the normal course of handling
user input, the application software should resolve that name as usual and need not treat it
in any special way.

the answers required by the speciﬁcation [RFC7050]

. If

3.

Name resolution APIs and libraries
it special treatment.

MUST

 recognize 'ipv4only.arpa' as special and

MUST

 give

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

Learning a network's NAT64 preﬁx is, by its nature, an interface-speciﬁc operation, and the
special DNS query used to learn this interface-speciﬁc NAT64 preﬁx
recursive resolver address(es) the client learned via the conﬁguration machinery for that
speciﬁc client interface. The NAT64 preﬁx is a per-interface property, not a per-device
property.

 be sent to the DNS

MUST

Regardless of any manual client DNS conﬁguration, DNS overrides conﬁgured by VPN client
software, or any other mechanisms that inﬂuence the choice of the client's recursive resolver
address(es) (including client devices that run their own local recursive resolver and use the
loopback address as their conﬁgured recursive resolver address), all queries for
'ipv4only.arpa' and any subdomains of that name
learned from the network interface in question via
, or other
DNS Conﬁguration [RFC8106] DNS Conﬁguration options for DHCPv6 [RFC3646]
conﬁguration mechanisms. Because DNS queries for 'ipv4only.arpa' are actually a special
middlebox communication protocol, it is essential that they go to the correct middlebox for
the interface in question, and failure to honor this requirement would cause failure of the
NAT64 Preﬁx Discovery mechanism [RFC7050]

 be sent to the recursive resolver
IPv6 Router Advertisement Options for

MUST

,

.

One implication of this is that, on multihomed devices (devices that allow more than one
logical or physical IP interface to be active at the same time, e.g., cellular data and Wi-Fi, or
one physical interface plus a VPN connection), clients
resolution APIs. On diﬀerent (logical or physical) interfaces, diﬀerent DNS64 answers may be
received, and DNS64 answers are only valid for the interface on which they were received.
On multihomed devices (including devices that support VPN), name resolution APIs that do
not include interface parameters will not work reliably with NAT64. On single-homed
devices, interface-unaware name resolution APIs are acceptable since when only one
interface can be active at a time, there is no need to specify an interface.

 use interface-aware name

MUST

DNSSEC-capable resolvers
queries for the IPv6 AAAA address records for 'ipv4only.arpa' since, by deﬁnition, any such
answers are generated by the local network's DNS64/NAT64 gateway, not the authoritative
server responsible for that name.

 attempt to validate answers received in response to

MUST NOT

4.

For the purposes of this section, recursive resolvers fall into two categories. The ﬁrst
category is traditional recursive resolvers, which includes *forwarding* recursive resolvers,
as commonly implemented in residential home gateways, and *iterative* recursive
resolvers, as commonly deployed by ISPs. The second category is DNS64 recursive resolvers,
whose purpose is to synthesize IPv6 address records. These may be *forwarding* DNS64
recursive resolvers or *iterative* DNS64 recursive resolvers, and they work in partnership
with a companion NAT64 gateway to communicate the appropriate NAT64 address synthesis
preﬁx to clients. More information on these terms can be found in
document [RFC8499]

the DNS Terminology

.

Traditional forwarding recursive resolvers
 recognize 'ipv4only.arpa' as special
or give that name, or subdomains of that name, any special treatment. The rationale for this
is that a traditional forwarding recursive resolver, such as built in to a residential home

SHOULD NOT

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

gateway, may itself be downstream of a DNS64 recursive resolver. Passing through the
'ipv4only.arpa' queries to the upstream DNS64 recursive resolver will allow the correct
NAT64 preﬁx to be discovered.

Traditional iterative recursive resolvers that are not explicitly conﬁgured to synthesize IPv6
preﬁxes on behalf of a companion NAT64 gateway need not recognize 'ipv4only.arpa' as
special or take any special action.

MUST

Forwarding or iterative recursive resolvers that have been explicitly conﬁgured to perform
DNS64 address synthesis in support of a companion NAT64 gateway (i.e., "DNS64 recursive
resolvers")
 recognize 'ipv4only.arpa' as special. The authoritative name servers for
'ipv4only.arpa' cannot be expected to know the local network's NAT64 address synthesis
preﬁx, so consulting the authoritative name servers for IPv6 address records for
'ipv4only.arpa' is futile. All DNS64 recursive resolvers
of its subdomains) as special, and they
'ipv4only.arpa' or otherwise query authoritative name servers in an attempt to resolve this
name. Instead, DNS64 recursive resolvers
MUST
generating immediate responses for all queries for 'ipv4only.arpa' (and any subdomain of
'ipv4only.arpa'), with the one exception of queries for the DS record. Queries for the DS
record are resolved the usual way to allow a client to securely verify that the 'ipv4only.arpa'
zone has an insecure delegation. Note that this exception is not expected to receive
widespread usage, since any client compliant with this speciﬁcation already knows that
'ipv4only.arpa' is an insecure delegation and will not attempt DNSSEC validation for this
name.

 act as authoritative for this zone, by

 attempt to look up NS records for

MUST NOT

 recognize 'ipv4only.arpa' (and all

MUST

DNS64 recursive resolvers
 generate the 192.0.0.170 and 192.0.0.171 responses for IPv4
address queries (DNS qtype "A"), the appropriate synthesized IPv6 address record responses
for IPv6 address queries (DNS qtype "AAAA"), and a negative ("no error no answer") response
for all other query types except DS.

MUST

For all subdomains of 'ipv4only.arpa', DNS64 recursive resolvers
NXDOMAIN responses. All names falling below 'ipv4only.arpa' are deﬁned to be nonexistent.

 generate immediate

MUST

An example conﬁguration for BIND 9 showing how to achieve the desired result is given in
Appendix A.

[RFC6303]
Note that this is *not* a locally served zone in the usual sense of that term
this rule applies *only* to DNS64 recursive resolvers, not to traditional forwarding or
iterative recursive resolvers.

 because

5.

Authoritative name server software need not recognize 'ipv4only.arpa' as special or handle it
in any special way.

6.

Generally speaking, operators of authoritative name servers need not know anything about
the name 'ipv4only.arpa', just as they do not need to know anything about any other names
they are not responsible for. Only the administrators of the 'arpa' namespace need to be
aware of this name's purpose and how it should be conﬁgured. In particular, 'ipv4only.arpa'
MUST

 be an insecure delegation, to allow DNS64

 have the required records, and

MUST

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

recursive resolvers to create synthesized AAAA answers within that zone. Making the
'ipv4only.arpa' zone a secure delegation would make it impossible for DNS64 recursive
resolvers to create synthesized AAAA answers that will be accepted by DNSSEC validating
clients, thereby defeating the entire purpose of the 'ipv4only.arpa' name.

7.

DNS Registries/Registrars need not know anything about the name 'ipv4only.arpa', just as
they do not need to know anything about any other name they are not responsible for.

7.2.  Names '170.0.0.192.in‑addr.arpa' and '171.0.0.192.in‑addr.arpa'

Since the IPv4 addresses 192.0.0.170 and 192.0.0.171 are deﬁned to be special, and are listed in
IANA IPv4 Special-Purpose Address Registry [SUv4]
the
names in the in‑addr.arpa domain are similarly special.

, the corresponding reverse mapping

The name '170.0.0.192.in‑addr.arpa' is deﬁned,
DNS record, type PTR, with rdata 'ipv4only.arpa'.

by IETF speciﬁcation [RFC7050]

, to have only one

The name '171.0.0.192.in‑addr.arpa' is deﬁned,
DNS record, type PTR, with rdata 'ipv4only.arpa'.

by IETF speciﬁcation [RFC7050]

, to have only one

There are no subdomains of '170.0.0.192.in‑addr.arpa' or '171.0.0.192.in‑addr.arpa'. All names
falling below these names are deﬁned to be nonexistent (NXDOMAIN).

Practically speaking, these two names are rarely used, but to the extent that they may be, they
are special only to resolver APIs and libraries, as described in item 3 below:

1.

Normal users should never have reason to encounter these two reverse mapping names.
However, if they do, queries for these reverse mapping names should return the expected
answer 'ipv4only.arpa'. Normal users have no need to know that these reverse mapping
names are special.

2.

3.

4.

SHOULD NOT

Application software
and
SHOULD NOT
command "host 192.0.0.170", then the "host" command should call the name resolution API
or library as usual and display the result that is returned.

 treat them diﬀerently. For example, if the user were to issue the Unix

 recognize these two reverse mapping names as special

SHOULD

Name resolution APIs and libraries
 recognize these two reverse mapping names as
special and generate the required responses locally. For the names '170.0.0.192.in‑addr.arpa'
and '171.0.0.192.in‑addr.arpa', PTR queries yield the result 'ipv4only.arpa'; all other query
types yield a negative ("no error no answer") response. For all subdomains of these two
reverse mapping domains, all queries yield an NXDOMAIN response. All names falling below
these two reverse mapping domains are deﬁned to be nonexistent.

This local self-contained generation of these responses is to avoid placing unnecessary load
on the authoritative 'in‑addr.arpa' name servers.

Recursive resolvers
SHOULD NOT

, by default, give them any special treatment.

SHOULD NOT

 recognize these two reverse mapping names as special and

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

5.

Authoritative name server software need not recognize these two reverse mapping names as
special or handle them in any special way.

6.

Generally speaking, most operators of authoritative name servers need not know anything
about these two reverse mapping names, just as they do not need to know anything about
any other names they are not responsible for. Only the operators of the authoritative name
servers for these two reverse mapping names need to be aware that these names are special,
and require ﬁxed answers speciﬁed by IETF speciﬁcation.

7.

DNS Registries/Registrars need not know anything about these two reverse mapping names,
just as they do not need to know anything about any other name they are not responsible
for.

7.2.1.  ip6.arpa Reverse Mapping PTR Records

For all IPv6 addresses synthesized by a DNS64 recursive resolver, the DNS64 recursive resolver is
responsible for synthesizing the appropriate 'ip6.arpa' reverse mapping PTR records too, if it
chooses to provide reverse mapping PTR records. The same applies to the synthesized IPv6
addresses corresponding to the IPv4 addresses 192.0.0.170 and 192.0.0.171.

Generally, a DNS64 recursive resolver synthesizes appropriate 'ip6.arpa' reverse mapping PTR
records by extracting the embedded IPv4 address from the encoded IPv6 address, performing a
reverse mapping PTR query for that IPv4 address, and then synthesizing a corresponding
'ip6.arpa' reverse mapping PTR record containing the same rdata.

In the case of synthesized IPv6 addresses corresponding to the IPv4 addresses 192.0.0.170 and
192.0.0.171, the DNS64 recursive resolver does not issue reverse mapping queries for those IPv4
addresses, but instead, according to rule 3 above, immediately returns the answer
'ipv4only.arpa'.

In the case of a client that uses the 'ipv4only.arpa' query to discover the IPv6 preﬁxes in use by
the local NAT64 gateway, and then proceeds to perform its own address synthesis locally (which
has beneﬁts such as allowing DNSSEC validation), that client
reverse mapping PTR records for those discovered preﬁx(es), according to the rules above: When
a client's name resolution APIs and libraries receive a request to look up an 'ip6.arpa' reverse
mapping PTR record for an address that falls within one of the discovered NAT64 address
synthesis preﬁxes, the software extracts the embedded IPv4 address and then, for IPv4 addresses
192.0.0.170 and 192.0.0.171, returns the ﬁxed answer 'ipv4only.arpa', and for all other IPv4
addresses, performs a reverse mapping PTR query for the IPv4 address and then synthesizes a
corresponding 'ip6.arpa' reverse mapping PTR record containing the same rdata.

 also synthesize 'ip6.arpa'

MUST

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

[RFC3646]

[RFC6146]

[RFC6147]

[RFC6761]

[RFC7050]

[RFC8106]

[RFC8174]

,

Droms, R., Ed. "DNS Conﬁguration options for Dynamic Host Conﬁguration
Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)" RFC 3646 DOI 10.17487/RFC3646
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3646>

, December 2003,

,

,

.

Bagnulo, M., Matthews, P., and I. van Beijnum "Stateful NAT64: Network
Address and Protocol Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers" RFC 6146
DOI 10.17487/RFC6146
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6146>

, April 2011,

,

,

,

Bagnulo, M., Sullivan, A., Matthews, P., and I. van Beijnum "DNS64: DNS
Extensions for Network Address Translation from IPv6 Clients to IPv4 Servers"
RFC 6147 DOI 10.17487/RFC6147
, April 2011,
rfc6147>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

,

Cheshire, S. and M. Krochmal "Special-Use Domain Names" RFC 6761 DOI
10.17487/RFC6761

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6761>

, February 2013,

,

,

,

.

Savolainen, T., Korhonen, J., and D. Wing "Discovery of the IPv6 Preﬁx Used for
IPv6 Address Synthesis" RFC 7050 DOI 10.17487/RFC7050
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7050>

, November 2013,

,

,

,

.

Jeong, J., Park, S., Beloeil, L., and S. Madanapalli "IPv6 Router Advertisement
Options for DNS Conﬁguration" RFC 8106 DOI 10.17487/RFC8106
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8106>

, March 2017,

,
.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

8.2.  Informative References

[RFC6303]

[RFC8244]

[RFC8499]

[SUDN]

[SUv4]

[DNS1]

Andrews, M. "Locally Served DNS Zones" BCP 163 RFC 6303 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6303

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6303>
.

, July 2011,

,

,

,

,
Lemon, T., Droms, R., and W. Kumari "Special-Use Domain Names Problem
,
,
Statement" RFC 8244 DOI 10.17487/RFC8244
editor.org/info/rfc8244>

, October 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

.

Hoﬀman, P., Sullivan, A., and K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
8499 DOI 10.17487/RFC8499
rfc8499>

, January 2019,

.

,

,

,

,

IANA "Special-Use Domain Names" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/special-
use-domain-names/>

.

,

,

IANA "IANA IPv4 Special-Purpose Address Registry" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/iana-ipv4-special-registry/>

.

,

Cloudﬂare "1.1.1.1 - The free app that makes your Internet safer."
<https://1.1.1.1/>

.

,

,

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

[DNS8]

[DNS9]

Google "Google Public DNS" <https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns/>

,

,

.

Quad9 "Internet Security and Privacy In a Few Easy Steps" <https://quad9.net/>
.

,

,

Appendix A.  Example BIND 9 Conﬁguration

A BIND 9 recursive resolver can be conﬁgured to act as authoritative for the necessary DNS64
names as described below.

In /etc/named.conf, the following line is added:

   zone "ipv4only.arpa"            { type master; file "ipv4only"; };

The ﬁle /var/named/ipv4only is created with the following content:

   $TTL 86400               ; Default TTL 24 hours
   @ IN SOA nameserver.example. admin.nameserver.example. (
            2016052400      ; Serial
            7200            ; Refresh ( 7200 = 2 hours)
            3600            ; Retry   ( 3600 = 1 hour)
            15724800        ; Expire  (15724800 = 6 months)
            60              ; Minimum
            )
   @ IN NS  nameserver.example.

   @ IN A    192.0.0.170
   @ IN A    192.0.0.171
   @ IN AAAA 64:ff9b::192.0.0.170 ; If not using Well-Known Prefix
   @ IN AAAA 64:ff9b::192.0.0.171 ; place chosen NAT64 prefix here

Acknowledgements

Thanks to
Discovery mechanism [RFC7050]

Jouni Korhonen Teemu Savolainen

,

 and for their feedback on this document.

, and

Dan Wing

, for devising the

NAT64 Preﬁx

Thanks to

Geoﬀ Huston

 for his feedback on this document.

Thanks to

Erik Kline

 for pointing out that the in‑addr.arpa names are special, too.

Mark Andrews

Thanks to
must be an insecure delegation in order for the
work and for many other very helpful comments.

 for conclusively pointing out the reasons why the 'ipv4only.arpa' zone
 to

NAT64 Preﬁx Discovery mechanism [RFC7050]

Thanks particularly to
Berlin, which lead directly to signiﬁcant improvements in how this document presents the issues.

 for an especially spirited hallway discussion at IETF 96 in

Lorenzo Colitti

Thanks to
Kaduk Roman Danyliw Eric Vyncke

,
Scott Bradner Bernie Volz Barry Leiba Mirja Kuehlewind Suresh Krishnan Benjamin
, and the other IESG reviewers for their thoughtful feedback.

,
,

,

,

,

,

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8880

Special Name ipv4only.arpa

August 2020

Dave Thaler
Thanks to
through the publication process.

 and

Warren Kumari

 for generously helping shepherd this document

Authors' Addresses

Stuart Cheshire
Apple Inc.
One Apple Park Way
Cupertino California 95014
,
United States of America
 +1 (408) 996-1010
Phone:
 cheshire@apple.com
Email:

David Schinazi
Google LLC
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View California 94043
,
United States of America
Email:

 dschinazi.ietf@gmail.com

Cheshire & Schinazi

Standards Track

Page 17

