Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
8723
Standards Track
April 2020
2070-1721
C. Jennings
Cisco Systems

P. Jones
Cisco Systems

R. Barnes
Cisco Systems

A.B. Roach
Mozilla

RFC 8723
Double Encryption Procedures for the Secure Real-
Time Transport Protocol (SRTP)

Abstract

In some conferencing scenarios, it is desirable for an intermediary to be able to manipulate some
parameters in Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) packets, while still providing strong end-to-end
security guarantees. This document deﬁnes a cryptographic transform for the Secure Real-time
Transport Protocol (SRTP) that uses two separate but related cryptographic operations to provide
hop-by-hop and end-to-end security guarantees. Both the end-to-end and hop-by-hop
cryptographic algorithms can utilize an authenticated encryption with associated data (AEAD)
algorithm or take advantage of future SRTP transforms with diﬀerent properties.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8723

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2020 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Cryptographic Context

3.1.  Key Derivation

4.  Original Header Block

5.  RTP Operations

5.1.  Encrypting a Packet

5.2.  Relaying a Packet

5.3.  Decrypting a Packet

6.  RTCP Operations

7.  Use with Other RTP Mechanisms

7.1.  RTP Retransmission (RTX)

7.2.  Redundant Audio Data (RED)

7.3.  Forward Error Correction (FEC)

7.4.  DTMF

8.  Recommended Inner and Outer Cryptographic Algorithms

9.  Security Considerations

10. IANA Considerations

10.1.  DTLS-SRTP

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Encryption Overview

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Cloud conferencing systems that are based on switched conferencing have a central Media
Distributor (MD) device that receives media from endpoints and distributes it to other endpoints,
but does not need to interpret or change the media content. For these systems, it is desirable to
have one cryptographic key that enables encryption and authentication of the media end-to-end
while still allowing certain information in the header of an RTP packet to be changed by the MD.
At the same time, a separate cryptographic key provides integrity and optional conﬁdentiality for
the media ﬂowing between the MD and the endpoints. The framework document
 describes this concept in more detail.
MEDIA-FRAMEWORK]

[PRIVATE-

[RFC7714]

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a transform for SRTP that uses 1) the AES Galois/Counter Mode (AES-
GCM) algorithm
 to provide encryption and integrity for an RTP packet for the end-to-
end cryptographic key and 2) a hop-by-hop cryptographic encryption and integrity between the
endpoint and the MD. The MD decrypts and checks integrity of the hop-by-hop security. The MD
 change some of the RTP header information that would impact the end-to-end integrity. In
MAY
that case, the original value of any RTP header ﬁeld that is changed is included in an "Original
Header Block" that is added to the packet. The new RTP packet is encrypted with the hop-by-hop
cryptographic algorithm before it is sent. The receiving endpoint decrypts and checks integrity
using the hop-by-hop cryptographic algorithm and then replaces any parameters the MD
changed using the information in the Original Header Block before decrypting and checking the
end-to-end integrity.

One can think of the double transform as a normal SRTP transform for encrypting the RTP in a
way such that things that only know half of the key, can decrypt and modify part of the RTP
packet but not other parts, including the media payload.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Terms used throughout this document include:

Media Distributor (MD):

endpoints, but does not need to interpret or change the media content (see also
MEDIA-FRAMEWORK]

A device that receives media from endpoints and distributes it to other
[PRIVATE-

).

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

end-to-end:
end.

The path from one endpoint through one or more MDs to the endpoint at the other

hop-by-hop:

The path from the endpoint to or from the MD.

Original Header Block (OHB):

An octet string that contains the original values from the RTP

header that might have been changed by an MD.

3.  Cryptographic Context

This speciﬁcation uses a cryptographic context with two parts:

•

An inner (end-to-end) part that is used by endpoints that originate and consume media to
ensure the integrity of media end-to-end, and

•

An outer (hop-by-hop) part that is used between endpoints and MDs to ensure the integrity
of media over a single hop and to enable an MD to modify certain RTP header ﬁelds. RTCP is
also handled using the hop-by-hop cryptographic part.

RECOMMENDED

The
combinations of SRTP ciphers that support the procedures in this document can be added to the
IANA registry.

 cipher for the hop-by-hop and end-to-end algorithms is AES-GCM. Other

The keys and salt for these algorithms are generated with the following steps:

•

Generate key and salt values of the length required for the combined inner (end-to-end) and
outer (hop-by-hop) algorithms.

•

Assign the key and salt values generated for the inner (end-to-end) algorithm to the ﬁrst half
of the key and the ﬁrst half of the salt for the double algorithm.

•

Assign the key and salt values for the outer (hop-by-hop) algorithm to the second half of the
key and second half of the salt for the double algorithm. The ﬁrst half of the key is referred
to as the inner key while the second half is referred to as the outer key. When a key is used
by a cryptographic algorithm, the salt that is used is the part of the salt generated with that
key.

•

the synchronization source (SSRC) is the same for both the inner and outer algorithms as it
cannot be changed.

•

The sequence number (SEQ) and rollover counter (ROC) are tracked independently for the
inner and outer algorithms.

If the MD is to be able to modify header ﬁelds but not decrypt the payload, then it must have a
cryptographic key for the outer algorithm but not the inner (end-to-end) algorithm. This
document does not deﬁne how the MD should be provisioned with this information. One possible
way to provide keying material for the outer (hop-by-hop) algorithm is to use

[DTLS-TUNNEL]

.

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

3.1.  Key Derivation

Although SRTP uses a single master key to derive keys for an SRTP session, this transform
requires separate inner and outer keys. In order to allow the inner and outer keys to be managed
independently via the master key, the transforms deﬁned in this document
 be used with
the following pseudorandom function (PRF), which preserves the separation between the two
halves of the key. Given a positive integer n representing the desired output length, a master key
k_master, and an input x:

MUST

PRF_double_n(k_master,x) = PRF_(n/2)(inner(k_master),x) ||
                           PRF_(n/2)(outer(k_master),x)
Here PRF_double_n(k_master, x) represents the AES_CM PRF Key Derivation Function (KDF)
(see
algorithm and AES_256_CM_PRF KDF
DOUBLE_AEAD_AES_256_GCM_AEAD_AES_256_GCM algorithm. The term inner(k_master)
represents the ﬁrst half of the key; outer(k_master) represents the second half of the key.

) for DOUBLE_AEAD_AES_128_GCM_AEAD_AES_128_GCM

Section 4.3.3 of [RFC3711]

[RFC6188]

 for

4.  Original Header Block

The OHB contains the original values of any modiﬁed RTP header ﬁelds. In the encryption
process, the OHB is included in an SRTP packet as described in Section 5. In the decryption
process, the receiving endpoint uses it to reconstruct the original RTP header so that it can pass
the proper additional authenticated data (AAD) value to the inner transform.

The OHB can reﬂect modiﬁcations to the following ﬁelds in an RTP header: the payload type (PT),
the SEQ, and the marker bit. All other ﬁelds in the RTP header
the OHB cannot reﬂect their original values, the receiver will be unable to verify the end-to-end
integrity of the packet.

 remain unmodiﬁed; since

MUST

The OHB has the following syntax (in ABNF

[RFC5234]

):

OCTET = %x00-FF

PT = OCTET
SEQ = 2OCTET
Config = OCTET
OHB = [ PT ] [ SEQ ] Config

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

If present, the PT and SEQ parts of the OHB contain the original payload type and sequence
number ﬁelds, respectively. The ﬁnal "Conﬁg" octet of the OHB speciﬁes whether these ﬁelds are
present, and the original value of the marker bit (if necessary):

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|R R R R B M P Q|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

•

P: PT is present

•

Q: SEQ is present

•

M: Marker bit is present

•

B: Value of marker bit

•

R: Reserved,

MUST

 be set to 0

In particular, an all-zero OHB Conﬁg octet (0x00) indicates that there have been no modiﬁcations
from the original header.

If the marker bit is not present (M=0), then B
of the Conﬁg octet, then the masked value C & 0x0C

MUST

 be set to zero. That is, if C represents the value
 have the value 0x80.

MUST NOT

5.  RTP Operations

As implied by the use of the word "double" above, this transform applies AES-GCM to the SRTP
packet twice. This allows media distributors to be able to modify some header ﬁelds while
allowing endpoints to verify the end-to-end integrity of a packet.

The ﬁrst, "inner" application of AES-GCM encrypts the SRTP payload and protects the integrity of
a version of the SRTP header with extensions truncated. Omitting extensions from the inner
integrity check means that they can be modiﬁed by an MD holding only the outer key.

The second, "outer" application of AES-GCM encrypts the ciphertext produced by the inner
encryption (i.e., the encrypted payload and authentication tag), plus an OHB that expresses any
changes made between the inner and outer transforms.

An MD that has the outer key but not the inner key may modify the header ﬁelds that can be
included in the OHB by decrypting, modifying, and re-encrypting the packet.

5.1.  Encrypting a Packet

An endpoint encrypts a packet by using the inner (end-to-end) cryptographic key and then the
outer (hop-by-hop) cryptographic key. The encryption also supports a mode for repair packets
that only does the outer (hop-by-hop) encryption. The processes is as follows:

1.

Form an RTP packet. If there are any header extensions, they

MUST

2.

If the packet is for repair mode data, skip to step 6.

 use

[RFC8285]

.

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

3.

Form a synthetic RTP packet with the following contents:

◦

Header: The RTP header of the original packet with the following modiﬁcations:

▪

▪

The X bit is set to zero.

The header is truncated to remove any extensions (i.e., keep only the ﬁrst 12 + 4 * CSRC
count (CC) bytes of the header).

◦

Payload: The RTP payload of the original packet (including padding when present).

4.

Apply the inner cryptographic algorithm to the synthetic RTP packet from the previous step.

5.

Replace the header of the protected RTP packet with the header of the original packet (to
restore any header extensions and reset the X bit), and append an empty OHB (0x00) to the
encrypted payload (with the authentication tag) obtained from step 4.

6.

Apply the outer cryptographic algorithm to the RTP packet. If encrypting RTP header
extensions hop-by-hop, then
the outer cryptographic key.

 be used when encrypting the RTP packet using

[RFC6904] MUST

When using Encrypted Key Transport (EKT)
packet, exactly like using EKT with any other SRTP transform.

[EKT-SRTP]

, the EKTField comes after the SRTP

5.2.  Relaying a Packet

The MD has the part of the key for the outer (hop-by-hop) cryptographic algorithm, but it does
not have the part of the key for the inner (end-to-end) cryptographic algorithm. The
cryptographic algorithm and key used to decrypt a packet and any encrypted RTP header
extensions would be the same as those used in the endpoint's outer algorithm and key.

In order to modify a packet, the MD decrypts the received packet, modiﬁes the packet, updates
the OHB with any modiﬁcations not already present in the OHB, and re-encrypts the packet using
the outer (hop-by-hop) cryptographic key before transmitting using the following steps:

1.

Apply the outer (hop-by-hop) cryptographic algorithm to decrypt the packet. If decrypting
RTP header extensions hop-by-hop, then
 be used. Note that the RTP payload
produced by this decryption operation contains the original encrypted payload with the tag
from the inner transform and the OHB appended.

[RFC6904] MUST

2.

Make any desired changes to the ﬁelds that are allowed to be changed, i.e., PT, SEQ, and M.
The MD
MAY
changes in the OHB.

 also make modiﬁcations to header extensions, without the need to reﬂect these

3.

Reﬂect any changes to header ﬁelds in the OHB:

◦

◦

If the MD changed a ﬁeld that is not already in the OHB, then it
value of the ﬁeld to the OHB. Note that this might result in an increase in the size of the
OHB.

 add the original

MUST

If the MD took a ﬁeld that had previously been modiﬁed and reset to its original value,
then it
result in a decrease in the size of the OHB.

 drop the corresponding information from the OHB. Note that this might

SHOULD

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

◦

Otherwise, the MD

MUST NOT

 modify the OHB.

4.

Apply the outer (hop-by-hop) cryptographic algorithm to the packet. If the RTP sequence
number has been modiﬁed, SRTP processing happens as deﬁned in SRTP and will end up
using the new sequence number. If encrypting RTP header extensions hop-by-hop, then
[RFC6904] MUST

 be used.

In order to avoid nonce reuse, the cryptographic contexts used in steps 1 and 4
diﬀerent, independent master keys. Note that this means that the key used for decryption by the
MD

 be diﬀerent from the key used for re-encryption to the end recipient.

MUST

MUST

 use

Note that if multiple MDs modify the same packet, then the ﬁrst MD to alter a given header ﬁeld
is the one that adds it to the OHB. If a subsequent MD changes the value of a header ﬁeld that has
already been changed, then the original value will already be in the OHB, so no update to the
OHB is required.

An MD that decrypts, modiﬁes, and re-encrypts packets in this way
for each recipient, and
decrypts and re-encrypts with the same key and salt, it will result in the reuse of a (key, nonce)
pair, undermining the security of AES-GCM.

 re-encrypt the packet using the sender's keys. If the MD

 use an independent key

MUST NOT

MUST

5.3.  Decrypting a Packet

To decrypt a packet, the endpoint ﬁrst decrypts and veriﬁes using the outer (hop-by-hop)
cryptographic key, then uses the OHB to reconstruct the original packet, which it decrypts and
veriﬁes with the inner (end-to-end) cryptographic key using the following steps:

1.

Apply the outer cryptographic algorithm to the packet. If the integrity check does not pass,
discard the packet. The result of this is referred to as the outer SRTP packet. If decrypting
RTP header extensions hop-by-hop, then
packet using the outer cryptographic key.

 be used when decrypting the RTP

[RFC6904] MUST

2.

If the packet is for repair mode data, skip the rest of the steps. Note that the packet that
results from the repair algorithm will still have encrypted data that needs to be decrypted as
speciﬁed by the repair algorithm sections.

3.

Remove the inner authentication tag and the OHB from the end of the payload of the outer
SRTP packet.

4.

Form a new synthetic SRTP packet with:

◦

Header = Received header, with the following modiﬁcations:

▪

▪

▪

Header ﬁelds replaced with values from OHB (if any).

The X bit is set to zero.

The header is truncated to remove any extensions (i.e., keep only the ﬁrst 12 + 4 * CC
bytes of the header).

◦

Payload is the encrypted payload from the outer SRTP packet (after the inner tag and OHB
have been stripped).

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

◦

Authentication tag is the inner authentication tag from the outer SRTP packet.

5.

Apply the inner cryptographic algorithm to this synthetic SRTP packet. Note if the RTP
sequence number was changed by the MD, the synthetic packet has the original sequence
number. If the integrity check does not pass, discard the packet.

Once the packet has been successfully decrypted, the application needs to be careful about which
information it uses to get the correct behavior. The application
found in the synthetic SRTP packet and
packet with the following exceptions:

 use the other data that was in the outer SRTP

 use only the information

MUST NOT

MUST

•

The PT from the outer SRTP packet is used for normal matching to Session Description
Protocol (SDP) and codec selection.

•

The sequence number from the outer SRTP packet is used for normal RTP ordering.

The PT and sequence number from the inner SRTP packet can be used for collection of various
statistics.

If the RTP header of the outer packet contains extensions, they
extensions are not protected end-to-end, implementations
containing headers that would require end-to-end protection.

MAY

 be used. However, because
 reject an RTP packet

SHOULD

6.  RTCP Operations

Unlike RTP, which is encrypted both hop-by-hop and end-to-end using two separate
cryptographic keys, RTCP is encrypted using only the outer (hop-by-hop) cryptographic key. The
procedures for RTCP encryption are speciﬁed in
additional steps.

, and this document introduces no

[RFC3711]

7.  Use with Other RTP Mechanisms

MDs sometimes interact with RTP media packets sent by endpoints, e.g., to provide recovery or
receive commands via dual-tone multi-frequency (DTMF) signaling. When media packets are
encrypted end-to-end, these procedures require modiﬁcation. (End-to-end interactions, including
end-to-end recovery, are not aﬀected by end-to-end encryption.)

Repair mechanisms, in general, will need to perform recovery on encrypted packets (double-
encrypted when using this transform), since the MD does not have access to the plaintext of the
packet, only an intermediate, E2E-encrypted form.

When the recovery mechanism calls for the recovery packet itself to be encrypted, it is encrypted
with only the outer, hop-by-hop key. This allows an MD to generate recovery packets without
having access to the inner, end-to-end keys. However, it also results in recovery packets being
triple-encrypted, twice for the base transform, and once for the recovery protection.

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

7.1.  RTP Retransmission (RTX)

[RFC4588]

When using RTX
encrypted packets, i.e., the bits that are sent over the wire to the other side. When encrypting a
retransmission packet, it
by-hop key).

 be encrypted like a packet in repair mode (i.e., with only the hop-

 with the double transform, the cached payloads

 be the double-

MUST

MUST

If the MD were to cache the inner, E2E-encrypted payload and retransmit it with an RTX original
sequence number ﬁeld prepended, then the modiﬁcations to the payload would cause the inner
integrity check to fail at the receiver.

A typical RTX receiver would decrypt the packet, undo the RTX transformation, then process the
resulting packet normally by using the steps in Section 5.3.

7.2.  Redundant Audio Data (RED)

When using RED
is the same as when using RED with any other SRTP transform.

[RFC2198]

 with the double transform, the processing at the sender and receiver

The main diﬀerence between the double transform and any other transform is that in an
intermediated environment, usage of RED must be end-to-end. An MD cannot synthesize RED
packets, because it lacks access to the plaintext media payloads that are combined to form a RED
payload.

Note that Flexible Forward Error Correction (Flex FEC) may often provide similar or better
repair capabilities compared to RED. For most applications, Flex FEC is a better choice than RED;
in particular, Flex FEC has modes in which the MD can synthesize recovery packets.

7.3.  Forward Error Correction (FEC)

[RFC8627]

 with the double transform, repair packets

When using Flex FEC
by ﬁrst double-encrypting the packet, then performing FEC. Processing of repair packets
proceeds in the opposite order, performing FEC recovery and then decrypting. This ensures that
the original media is not revealed to the MD but, at the same time, allows the MD to repair
media. When encrypting a packet that contains the Flex FEC data, which is already encrypted, it
MUST

 be encrypted with only the outer, hop-by-hop transform.

 be constructed

MUST

The algorithm recommended in
that for interoperability with WebRTC,
only "m=" lines in SDP for the repair packets.

[WEBRTC-FEC]

 for repair of video is Flex FEC

. Note
 recommends not using additional FEC-

[RFC8627]

[WEBRTC-FEC]

7.4.  DTMF

When DTMF is sent using the mechanism in
cannot read it, so it cannot be used to control the relay. Other out-of-band methods to control the
relay need to be used instead.

, it is end-to-end encrypted; the relay

[RFC4733]

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

8.  Recommended Inner and Outer Cryptographic Algorithms

This speciﬁcation recommends and deﬁnes AES-GCM as both the inner and outer cryptographic
algorithms, identiﬁed as DOUBLE_AEAD_AES_128_GCM_AEAD_AES_128_GCM and
DOUBLE_AEAD_AES_256_GCM_AEAD_AES_256_GCM. These algorithms provide for authenticated
encryption and will consume additional processing time double-encrypting for hop-by-hop and
end-to-end. However, the approach is secure and simple; thus, it is viewed as an acceptable
trade-oﬀ in processing eﬃciency.

Note that names for the cryptographic transforms are of the form DOUBLE_(inner algorithm)_
(outer algorithm).

While this document only deﬁnes a proﬁle based on AES-GCM, it is possible for future documents
to deﬁne further proﬁles with diﬀerent inner and outer algorithms in this same framework. For
example, if a new SRTP transform were deﬁned that encrypts some or all of the RTP header, it
would be reasonable for systems to have the option of using that for the outer algorithm.
Similarly, if a new transform were deﬁned that provided only integrity, that would also be
reasonable to use for the outer transform as the payload data is already encrypted by the inner
transform.

The AES-GCM cryptographic algorithm introduces an additional 16 octets to the length of the
packet. When using AES-GCM for both the inner and outer cryptographic algorithms, the total
additional length is 32 octets. The OHB will consume an additional 1-4 octets. Packets in repair
mode will carry additional repair data, further increasing their size.

9.  Security Considerations

This SRTP transform provides protection against two classes of attacker: a network attacker that
knows neither the inner nor outer keys and a malicious MD that knows the outer key. Obviously,
it provides no protections against an attacker that holds both the inner and outer keys.

The protections with regard to the network are the same as with the normal SRTP AES-GCM
transforms. The major diﬀerence is that the double transforms are designed to work better in a
group context. In such contexts, it is important to note that because these transforms are
symmetric, they do not protect against attacks within the group. Any member of the group can
generate valid SRTP packets for any SSRC in use by the group.

With regard to a malicious MD, the recipient can verify the integrity of the base header ﬁelds and
conﬁdentiality and integrity of the payload. The recipient has no assurance, however, of the
integrity of the header extensions in the packet.

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

The main innovation of this transform relative to other SRTP transforms is that it allows a partly
trusted MD to decrypt, modify, and re-encrypt a packet. When this is done, the cryptographic
contexts used for decryption and re-encryption
 use diﬀerent, independent master keys. If
the same context is used, the nonce formation rules for SRTP will cause the same key and nonce
to be used with two diﬀerent plaintexts, which substantially degrades the security of AES-GCM.

MUST

In other words, from the perspective of the MD, re-encrypting packets using this protocol will
involve the same cryptographic operations as if it had established independent AES-GCM crypto
contexts with the sender and the receiver. This property allows the use of an MD that supports
AES-GCM but does not modify any header ﬁelds, without requiring any modiﬁcation to the MD.

10.  IANA Considerations

10.1.  DTLS-SRTP

IANA has added the following protection proﬁles to the "DTLS-SRTP Protection Proﬁles" registry
deﬁned in

[RFC5764]

.

Value

Proﬁle

Reference

{0x00, 0x09}

DOUBLE_AEAD_AES_128_GCM_AEAD_AES_128_GCM RFC 8723

{0x00, 0x0A}

DOUBLE_AEAD_AES_256_GCM_AEAD_AES_256_GCM RFC 8723

Table 1: Updates to the DTLS-SRTP Protection Proﬁles Registry

The SRTP transform parameters for each of these protection proﬁles are:

DOUBLE_AEAD_AES_128_GCM_AEAD_AES_128_GCM

cipher:

AES_128_GCM then AES_128_GCM

cipher_key_length:

256 bits

cipher_salt_length:

192 bits

aead_auth_tag_length:

256 bits

auth_function:

NULL

auth_key_length:

auth_tag_length:

N/A

N/A

maximum lifetime:

at most 231 SRTCP packets and at most 248 SRTP packets

Table 2: SRTP Transform Parameters for
DOUBLE_AEAD_AES_128_GCM_AEAD_AES_128_GCM

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

DOUBLE_AEAD_AES_256_GCM_AEAD_AES_256_GCM

cipher:

AES_256_GCM then AES_256_GCM

cipher_key_length:

512 bits

cipher_salt_length:

192 bits

aead_auth_tag_length:

256 bits

auth_function:

NULL

auth_key_length:

auth_tag_length:

N/A

N/A

maximum lifetime:

at most 231 SRTCP packets and at most 248 SRTP packets

Table 3: SRTP Transform Parameters for
DOUBLE_AEAD_AES_256_GCM_AEAD_AES_256_GCM

The ﬁrst half of the key and salt is used for the inner (end-to-end) algorithm and the second half
is used for the outer (hop-by-hop) algorithm.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3711]

[RFC5764]

[RFC6188]

[RFC6904]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Baugher, M., McGrew, D., Naslund, M., Carrara, E., and K. Norrman "The Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, March

,
.

,

,

McGrew, D. and E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)
Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)"
RFC 5764 DOI 10.17487/RFC5764
rfc5764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2010,

,
.

,

,

McGrew, D. "The Use of AES-192 and AES-256 in Secure RTP" RFC 6188 DOI
10.17487/RFC6188

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6188>

, March 2011,

.

,

,

,

,

Lennox, J. "Encryption of Header Extensions in the Secure Real-time Transport
<https://www.rfc-
Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 6904 DOI 10.17487/RFC6904
.
editor.org/info/rfc6904>

, April 2013,

,

,

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

[RFC7714]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8285]

McGrew, D. and K. Igoe "AES-GCM Authenticated Encryption in the Secure Real-
time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 7714 DOI 10.17487/RFC7714
,
2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7714>

, December

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,
Singer, D., Desineni, H., and R. Even, Ed. "A General Mechanism for RTP Header
,
,
Extensions" RFC 8285 DOI 10.17487/RFC8285
editor.org/info/rfc8285>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2017,

.

11.2.  Informative References

[DTLS-TUNNEL]

Jones, P., Ellenbogen, P., and N. Ohlmeier "DTLS Tunnel between a Media
Distributor and Key Distributor to Facilitate Key Exchange" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-perc-dtls-tunnel-06
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-perc-dtls-tunnel-06>

, 16 October 2019,

<https://

,

,

.

,

[EKT-SRTP]

Jennings, C., Mattsson, J., McGrew, D., Wing, D., and F. Andreasen "Encrypted
,
Key Transport for DTLS and Secure RTP" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
ietf-perc-srtp-ekt-diet-10
srtp-ekt-diet-10>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-perc-

, 8 July 2019,

.

,

,

[PRIVATE-MEDIA-FRAMEWORK]

Jones, P., Benham, D., and C. Groves "A Solution Framework

,

for Private Media in Privacy Enhanced RTP Conferencing (PERC)" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-perc-private-media-framework-12
2019,

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-perc-private-media-framework-12>

, 5 June

,

,

.

[RFC2198]

[RFC4588]

[RFC4733]

[RFC5234]

[RFC8627]

Perkins, C., Kouvelas, I., Hodson, O., Hardman, V., Handley, M., Bolot, J.C., Vega-
Garcia, A., and S. Fosse-Parisis "RTP Payload for Redundant Audio Data" RFC
,
2198 DOI 10.17487/RFC2198
rfc2198>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 1997,

,

,

.

Rey, J., Leon, D., Miyazaki, A., Varsa, V., and R. Hakenberg "RTP Retransmission
Payload Format" RFC 4588 DOI 10.17487/RFC4588
<https://www.rfc-
.
editor.org/info/rfc4588>

, July 2006,

,

,

,

,
Schulzrinne, H. and T. Taylor "RTP Payload for DTMF Digits, Telephony Tones,
and Telephony Signals" RFC 4733 DOI 10.17487/RFC4733
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4733>

, December 2006,

,

,

.

Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

, January 2008,

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

Zanaty, M., Singh, V., Begen, A., and G. Mandyam "RTP Payload Format for
Flexible Forward Error Correction (FEC)" RFC 8627 DOI 10.17487/RFC8627
2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8627>

,

,

.

,

, July

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

[WEBRTC-FEC]

Uberti, J. "WebRTC Forward Error Correction Requirements" Work in
,
<https://
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-rtcweb-fec-10
, 16 July 2019,
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-rtcweb-fec-10>

,
,

.

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

Appendix A.  Encryption Overview

The following ﬁgures show a double-encrypted SRTP packet. The sides indicate the parts of the
packet that are encrypted and authenticated by the hop-by-hop and end-to-end operations.

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |V=2|P|X|  CC   |M|     PT      |       sequence number         |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           timestamp                           |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |           synchronization source (SSRC) identifier            |
    +=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
    |            contributing source (CSRC) identifiers             |
    |                               ....                            |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                    RTP extension (OPTIONAL) ...               |
+>+>+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
O I |                          payload ...                          |
O I |                               +-------------------------------+
O I |                               | RTP padding   | RTP pad count |
O +>+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
O | |                    E2E authentication tag                     |
O | +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
O | |                            OHB ...                            |
+>| +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| | |                    HBH authentication tag                     |
| | +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| |
| +- E2E Encrypted Portion
|
+--- HBH Encrypted Portion

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<+<+
|V=2|P|X|  CC   |M|     PT      |       sequence number         | I O
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ I O
|                           timestamp                           | I O
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ I O
|           synchronization source (SSRC) identifier            | I O
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+ I O
|            contributing source (CSRC) identifiers             | I O
|                               ....                            | I O
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<+ O
|                    RTP extension (OPTIONAL) ...               | | O
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<+ O
|                           payload ...                         | I O
|                               +-------------------------------+ I O
|                               | RTP padding   | RTP pad count | I O
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+<+ O
|                    E2E authentication tag                     | | O
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ | O
|                            OHB ...                            | | O
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ |<+
|                    HBH authentication tag                     | | |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ | |
                                                                  | |
                                     E2E Authenticated Portion ---+ |
                                                                    |
                                     HBH Authenticated Portion -----+

Acknowledgments

Suhas Nandakumar

Thank you to
and
you to
the RTP payload instead of the RTP header.

Sergio Garcia Murillo

,

Alex Gouaillard David Benham Magnus Westerlund Nils Ohlmeier Roni Even

,

,

,

,

 for reviews and improvements to this speciﬁcation. In addition, thank
, who proposed the change of transporting the OHB information in

Authors' Addresses

Cullen Jennings
Cisco Systems
Email:

 ﬂuﬀy@iii.ca

Paul E. Jones
Cisco Systems
Email:

 paulej@packetizer.com

Richard Barnes
Cisco Systems
Email:

 rlb@ipv.sx

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 8723

Double SRTP

April 2020

Adam Roach
Mozilla
Email:

 adam@nostrum.com

Jennings, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

