Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9844
6874
4007, 7622, 8089
Standards Track
August 2025
2070-1721
B. Carpenter
Univ. of Auckland

R. Hinden
Check Point Software

RFC 9844
Entering IPv6 Zone Identifiers in User Interfaces

Abstract

This document describes how the zone identifier of an IPv6 scoped address, defined in the IPv6
Scoped Address Architecture specification (RFC 4007), should be entered into a user interface.
This document obsoletes RFC 6874 and updates RFCs 4007, 7622, and 8089.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9844
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Carpenter & Hinden

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9844

IPv6 Zone IDs in UIs

August 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Use Cases

3.  Relationship to Other Documents

4.  Requirements Language

5.  Specification

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

5

6

6

6

6

7

8

A number of software tools require or permit the user to enter an IPv6 address via a user
interface (UI). The standard literal text format for an IPv6 address is defined by
[RFC4291]
[RFC5952]
 extends the text
representation of limited-scope IPv6 addresses, in particular link-local unicast addresses and
multicast addresses with less than global scope, such that a zone identifier may be concatenated
to an address. Note that

. The IPv6 Scoped Address Architecture specification

 does not mention this extension.

[RFC4007]

[RFC5952]

 and

Zone identifiers are especially useful in contexts in which literal addresses are typically used, for
example, during fault diagnosis or device configuration (where a device may be physical or
virtual) when it may be essential to specify which interface is used for sending to a link-local
address. It should be noted that zone identifiers have purely local meaning within the node in
which they are defined, usually being the same as IPv6 interface names. They are completely
meaningless for any other node. At the time of writing, they are meaningful only when attached
to link-local unicast and scoped multicast addresses, but it is possible that other uses might be
defined in the future.

Examples of a link-local unicast address qualified by a zone identifier are "fe80::1234%eth0" on a
Linux host or "fe80::4321%7" on a Microsoft Windows host.

Such addresses are directly supported by socket API calls including "getaddrinfo()"

[RFC3493]
.

Carpenter & Hinden

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9844

IPv6 Zone IDs in UIs

August 2025

Devices whose network stack does not support the model of a human-readable zone identifier
described in

 are out of scope for this document.

[RFC4007]

2.  Use Cases

Some examples of use cases for entering an address that includes a zone identifier into a UI are
as follows:

1.

A software tool may be used for simple debugging actions involving link-local addresses on
a host with more than one active link interface. For example, the functioning of an interface
and the existence of a device may be checked via "ping fe80::1234%eth0". If this succeeds,
the user learns that the other device is reachable via the interface named "eth0".

2.

A software tool must sometimes be used to configure or reconfigure a device that only has a
link-local address, again in a host with more than one active link interface. For example, a
typical home router may be configured via a well-known private address
"192.168.178.1" but not via "fe80::1%eth0", if the tool in use does not support the input of
zone identifiers. More generally, link-local addresses need to be entered in network
management UIs for use in formats such as YANG

[RFC1918]

[RFC6991]

 such as

.

3.

Using a monitoring tool such as a network sniffer, the user may need to specify a given link-
local address on a given interface whose traffic is of interest. (For example, at the time of
writing, Wireshark supports capture from multiple interfaces but does not appear to
support the zone identifier in a display filter.)

4.

The Microsoft Web Services for Devices (WSD) virtual printer port mechanism can present
the user with an IPv6 link-local address such as "fe80::823b:f9ff:fe7b:d9dc%10" in which the
zone identifier is present but is not recognized by appropriate software.

5.

The National Marine Electronics Association (NMEA) has defined the "OneNet Marine IPv6
Ethernet Networking Standard"
Proposed improvements to the standard include a web page for device configuration using
link-local addresses.

, which uses IPv6 link-local addresses exclusively.

[ONE-NET]

Such requirements have already spawned hacks to work around current limitations (e.g., the
hack described in

, which is no longer maintained and has been archived).

[LL-HACK]

For all such use cases, it is highly desirable that a complete IPv6 link-local address can be cut and
pasted from one UI (such as the output from a system command) to another. Since such
addresses may include quite long hexadecimal strings, for example, "fe80::8d0f:
7f26:f5c8:780b%enx525400d5e0fb", any solution except cut-and-paste is highly error prone.

3.  Relationship to Other Documents

The use cases listed above apply to relatively simple actions on end systems. The zone identifiers
 only specifies that
[RFC4007]
that can be used are limited by the host operating system, since
[RFC4007]
they are text strings, without specifying a maximum length or syntax. As
 explains,
each zone identifier corresponds to a numerical zone index that qualifies a link-local address.

Carpenter & Hinden

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9844

IPv6 Zone IDs in UIs

August 2025

It should be noted that whereas some operating systems and network APIs support a default
zone identifier as recommended by
solution is particularly important, since a link-local address without a zone index cannot be used
in the Linux socket API.

, others, including Linux, do not, and for them a

[RFC4007]

[RFC4007]

 assumes that the human-readable zone identifier is mapped by the

The model in
operating system into a numeric interface index. Typically, this mapping is performed by the
socket API, e.g., by "getaddrinfo()". The mapping between the human-readable zone identifier
string and the numeric value is a host-specific function that varies between operating systems.
The present document is concerned only with the human-readable string that is typically
displayed in an operating system's user interface. However, in most operating systems, it is
possible to use the underlying interface number, represented as a decimal integer, as an
Section 11.2 of [RFC4007]
equivalent to the human-readable string. This is recommended by
it is not required. This possibility does not affect the UI requirement given in this document.

, but

As IPv6 deployment becomes more widespread, the lack of a solution for handling complete link-
local addresses in all tools is becoming an acute problem for increasing numbers of operational
and support personnel. It will become critical as IPv6-only or IPv6-mostly networks
[IPv6-MOSTLY]
mentioned above is an immediate requirement. This is the principal reason for documenting
this requirement now.

, with nodes lacking native IPv4 support, appear. For example, the NMEA use case

[RFC8925]

This document completely obsoletes
determined is impracticable to support
requirement. Note that obsoleting
[RFC3986]
defined by
change will have no significant impact on non-browser deployments of URIs.

[RFC6874]
 is no longer updated by

[LINK-LOCAL-URI]

[RFC6874]

[RFC3986]

, which implementors of web browsers have
, and replaces it with a generic UI

 reverts the change that it made to the URI syntax
. As far as is known, this

[RFC6874]

, so

This document also updates

[RFC7622]

 and

[RFC8089]

 by deleting their references to

[RFC6874]
.

It also updates
identifier as described in Section 5.

[RFC4007]

 by adding a new requirement that user interfaces support the zone

4.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

5.  Specification

A user interface (UI) that allows or requires the user to enter an IPv6 address other than a global
unicast address
address and selecting a zone identifier as specified by
identifier as defined by the operating system).

 provide a means for entering a link-local address or a scoped multicast

 (typically, an interface

[RFC4007]

MUST

Carpenter & Hinden

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9844

IPv6 Zone IDs in UIs

August 2025

In this case, the UI
"fe80::1%eth0").

SHOULD

 support the complete format specified by

[RFC4007]

 (e.g.,

If this is impossible for practical reasons, the UI
"%". The hyphen ("-") is suggested (e.g., "fe80::1-eth0").

MAY

 support an alternative delimiter in place of

If this too is impossible for practical reasons, the UI
"fe80::1" in one box and "eth0" in another), selection from a list of active zone identifiers, or a
separate command-line parameter for the zone identifier.

 provide two separate input fields (e.g.,

MAY

The program providing the UI will then store the address and the zone identifier, converting the
latter to an interface index (typically via the socket API). A faulty zone identifier will be detected
when attempting to convert it, and this should be reported to the user as an error. The resulting
interface index will be used for any subsequent socket calls using the link-local address.

Note that an address string such as "fe80::1%eth0" cannot be converted to binary by the POSIX
socket API function "inet_pton()"
by splitting it into two strings and using "inet_pton()" and "if_nametoindex()" successively, in
order to obtain the required interface index value.

. It must be converted either by using "getaddrinfo()" or

[POSIX]

In this model, the zone identifier is considered independently of the IPv6 address itself.
However, this does not in itself resolve the difficulties in considering the zone identifier as part
. Therefore, this approach does not resolve the issue of how
of the HTTP origin model
[LINK-LOCAL-URI]
.
browsers should support link-local addresses, which is discussed further in
Because of this, the recommendations and normative statements in this document do not apply
to URIs fetched by web browsers.

[RFC6454]

6.  Security Considerations

[RFC4007]

As explained in
the wire. In particular, see the final security consideration of
software should not trust packets that contain textual non-global addresses as data. Therefore,
software that obtains a zone identifier through a UI should not transmit it further.

, zone identifiers are of local significance only and must not be sent on

, which indicates that

[RFC4007]

There is no formal limit on the length of the zone identifier string in
implementation should apply an appropriate length limit when inputting a zone identifier, in
order to minimize the risk of a buffer overrun. Typically, this limit would be the same as the host
operating system's limit on interface names.

[RFC4007]

. A UI

 does not specify or restrict the character set allowed in a zone identifier. Therefore,

[RFC4007]
each implementation processing zone identifiers needs to make checks appropriate for the
environment it is used in. For example, a UI implementation should not allow ASCII NUL
characters in a zone identifier string as this could cause inconsistencies in subsequent string
processing.

Carpenter & Hinden

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9844

IPv6 Zone IDs in UIs

August 2025

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4007]

[RFC4291]

[RFC5952]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Deering, S. Haberman, B. Jinmei, T. Nordmark, E.
,
, and
Address Architecture" RFC 4007 DOI 10.17487/RFC4007
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4007>
.

,

,

B. Zill "IPv6 Scoped
,
, March 2005,

<https://

Hinden, R.
10.17487/RFC4291

S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>
.

,
, February 2006,

 and

,

Kawamura, S.
 and
Representation" RFC 5952 DOI 10.17487/RFC5952
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5952>

,

,

.

M. Kawashima "A Recommendation for IPv6 Address Text

, August 2010,

<https://

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

8.2.  Informative References

[IPv6-MOSTLY]

Buraglio, N. Caletka, O.
,

, and

J. Linkova "IPv6-Mostly Networks: Deployment

,

and Operations Considerations" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
v6ops-6mops-01
v6ops-6mops-01>

,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-

, 3 March 2025,

,

.

[LINK-LOCAL-URI]

,

Schinazi, D. "Best Practices for Link-Local Connectivity in URI-Based
Protocols" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-schinazi-httpbis-link-local-uri-
bcp-03
httpbis-link-local-uri-bcp-03>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-schinazi-

, 22 February 2024,

,

,

.

[LL-HACK]

[ONE-NET]

,

Jin, P. "Snippets: IPv6 link-local connect hack"
web/20210725030713/https://website.peterjin.org/wiki/
Snippets:IPv6_link_local_connect_hack>

, 2021,

.

<https://web.archive.org/

,

NMEA "OneNet Marine IPv6 Ethernet Networking Standard"
www.nmea.org/nmea-onenet.html>

.

, 2025,

<https://

Carpenter & Hinden

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9844

IPv6 Zone IDs in UIs

August 2025

[POSIX]

[RFC1918]

[RFC3493]

[RFC3986]

[RFC6454]

[RFC6874]

[RFC6874bis]

[RFC6991]

[RFC7622]

[RFC8089]

[RFC8925]

,

IEEE "IEEE/Open Group Standard for Information Technology--Portable
Operating System Interface (POSIX(TM)) Base Specifications, Issue 8" IEEE Std
1003.1-2024 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2024.10555529
10.1109/IEEESTD.2024.10555529>

,
<https://doi.org/

, June 2024,

,

.

,

Rekhter, Y. Moskowitz, B. Karrenberg, D. de Groot, G. J.
Allocation for Private Internets" BCP 5 RFC 1918 DOI 10.17487/RFC1918
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1918>
February 1996,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

E. Lear "Address
,

,

Gilligan, R. Thomson, S. Bound, J. McCann, J.
,
Interface Extensions for IPv6" RFC 3493 DOI 10.17487/RFC3493
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3493>
.

, and

,

,

,

W. Stevens "Basic Socket

, February 2003,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
(URI): Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>
.

, and
,

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier

,

,

, January 2005,

Barth, A. "The Web Origin Concept" RFC 6454 DOI 10.17487/RFC6454
,
December 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6454>

,

.

,

Carpenter, B. Cheshire, S.
,
Address Literals and Uniform Resource Identifiers" RFC 6874 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6874

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6874>

R. Hinden "Representing IPv6 Zone Identifiers in

, February 2013,

, and

,

,

,

.

, and

Carpenter, B. Cheshire, S.
R. Hinden "Representing IPv6 Zone Identifiers in
,
Address Literals and Uniform Resource Identifiers" Work in Progress Internet-
Draft, draft-ietf-6man-rfc6874bis-09
doc/html/draft-ietf-6man-rfc6874bis-09>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/

, 2 July 2023,

,

,

,

.

Schoenwaelder, J., Ed. "Common YANG Data Types" RFC 6991 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6991

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6991>

, July 2013,

,
.

,

,

,

Saint-Andre, P. "Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): Address
<https://www.rfc-
Format" RFC 7622 DOI 10.17487/RFC7622
editor.org/info/rfc7622>

, September 2015,

,

,

.

Kerwin, M. "The "file" URI Scheme" RFC 8089 DOI 10.17487/RFC8089
2017,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8089>

,

,

.

, February

,

Colitti, L. Linkova, J. Richardson, M.
Option for DHCPv4" RFC 8925 DOI 10.17487/RFC8925
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8925>

, and

,
,

,

.

T. Mrugalski "IPv6-Only Preferred
<https://

,
, October 2020,

Acknowledgements

This document owes a lot to the previous discussions that led to
Internet-Draft

[RFC6874bis]
.

[RFC6874]

 and to the expired

Carpenter & Hinden

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9844

IPv6 Zone IDs in UIs

August 2025

,

Erik Auerswald Nick Buraglio Martin J. Dürst Toerless
Useful comments were received from
Eckert David Farmer Brian Haberman Nate Karstens Tero Kivinen Erik Kline Jen Linkova
,
Eduard Metz Gyan Mishra David Schinazi Jürgen Schönwälder Michael Sweet Martin
,
,
Thomson Ole Troan Éric Vyncke Magnus Westerlund

, and other participants in the 6MAN WG.

,
,

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Brian Carpenter
School of Computer Science
University of Auckland
PB 92019
Auckland 1142
New Zealand
Email:

brian.e.carpenter@gmail.com

Robert M. Hinden
Check Point Software
959 Skyway Road
San Carlos CA 94070
,
United States of America
Email:

bob.hinden@gmail.com

Carpenter & Hinden

Standards Track

Page 8

