Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9462
Standards Track
November 2023
2070-1721
T. Pauly
Apple Inc.

C. A. Wood
Cloudflare

E. Kinnear
Apple Inc.

P. McManus
Fastly

T. Jensen
Microsoft

RFC 9462
Discovery of Designated Resolvers

Abstract

This document defines Discovery of Designated Resolvers (DDR), a set of mechanisms for DNS
clients to use DNS records to discover a resolver's encrypted DNS configuration. An Encrypted
DNS Resolver discovered in this manner is referred to as a "Designated Resolver". These
mechanisms can be used to move from unencrypted DNS to encrypted DNS when only the IP
address of a resolver is known. These mechanisms are designed to be limited to cases where
Unencrypted DNS Resolvers and their Designated Resolvers are operated by the same entity or
cooperating entities. It can also be used to discover support for encrypted DNS protocols when
the name of an Encrypted DNS Resolver is known.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9462
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Specification of Requirements

2.  Terminology

3.  DNS Service Binding Records

4.  Discovery Using Resolver IP Addresses

4.1.  Use of Designated Resolvers

4.1.1.  Use of Designated Resolvers across Network Changes

4.2.  Verified Discovery

4.3.  Opportunistic Discovery

5.  Discovery Using Resolver Names

6.  Deployment Considerations

6.1.  Caching Forwarders

6.2.  Certificate Management

6.3.  Server Name Handling

6.4.  Handling Non-DDR Queries for resolver.arpa

6.5.  Interaction with Network-Designated Resolvers

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Special-Use Domain Name "resolver.arpa"

8.2.  Domain Name Reservation Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Rationale for Using a Special-Use Domain Name

Appendix B.  Rationale for Using SVCB Records

3

3

3

4

5

6

7

7

8

8

9

9

10

10

10

10

10

11

11

12

13

13

14

15

15

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

Authors' Addresses

15

1.  Introduction

[RFC9250]

, or DNS over HTTPS (DoH)

When DNS clients wish to use encrypted DNS protocols such as DNS over TLS (DoT)
DNS over QUIC (DoQ)
additional information beyond the IP address of the DNS server, such as the resolver's hostname,
alternate IP addresses, non-standard ports, or URI Templates. However, common configuration
mechanisms only provide the resolver's IP address during configuration. Such mechanisms
include network provisioning protocols like DHCP
Advertisement (RA) options

[RFC2132] [RFC8415]
, as well as manual configuration.

, they can require

 and IPv6 Router

[RFC7858]
,

[RFC8106]

[RFC8484]

This document defines two mechanisms for clients to discover Designated Resolvers that support
these encrypted protocols using DNS server Service Binding (SVCB) records

[RFC9460]
:

1.

When only an IP address of an Unencrypted DNS Resolver is known, the client queries a
Special-Use Domain Name (SUDN)
one or more Encrypted DNS Resolvers the Unencrypted DNS Resolver has designated for use
when support for DNS encryption is requested (Section 4).

 to discover DNS SVCB records associated with

[RFC6761]

2.

When the hostname of an Encrypted DNS Resolver is known, the client requests details by
sending a query for a DNS SVCB record. This can be used to discover alternate encrypted
DNS protocols supported by a known server, or to provide details if a resolver name is
provisioned by a network (Section 5).

Both of these approaches allow clients to confirm that a discovered Encrypted DNS Resolver is
designated by the originally provisioned resolver. "Designated" in this context means that the
resolvers are operated by the same entity or cooperating entities; for example, the resolvers are
accessible on the same IP address, or there is a certificate that contains the IP address for the
original designating resolver.

1.1.  Specification of Requirements

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Terminology

This document defines the following terms:

DDR:

Discovery of Designated Resolvers. "DDR" refers to the mechanisms defined in this

document.

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

Designated Resolver:

A resolver, presumably an Encrypted DNS Resolver, designated by

another resolver for use in its own place. This designation can be verified with TLS
certificates.

Encrypted DNS Resolver:

A DNS resolver using any encrypted DNS transport. This includes

current mechanisms such as DoH, DoT, and DoQ, as well as future mechanisms.

Unencrypted DNS Resolver:
TCP or UDP port 53.

A DNS resolver using a transport without encryption, historically

3.  DNS Service Binding Records

DNS resolvers can advertise one or more Designated Resolvers that may offer support over
encrypted channels and are controlled by the same entity.

When a client discovers Designated Resolvers, it learns information such as the supported
protocols and ports. This information is provided in ServiceMode SVCB records for DNS servers,
although AliasMode SVCB records can be used to direct clients to the needed ServiceMode SVCB
[RFC9460]
record per
such as "dohpath", are defined by

. The formatting of these records, including the DNS-unique parameters

[RFC9461]
.

The following is an example of a SVCB record describing a DoH server discovered by querying
for _dns.example.net:

_dns.example.net.  7200  IN SVCB 1 example.net. (
     alpn=h2 dohpath=/dns-query{?dns} )

The following is an example of a SVCB record describing a DoT server discovered by querying for
_dns.example.net:

_dns.example.net.  7200  IN SVCB 1 dot.example.net (
     alpn=dot port=8530 )

The following is an example of a SVCB record describing a DoQ server discovered by querying
for _dns.example.net:

_dns.example.net.  7200  IN SVCB 1 doq.example.net (
     alpn=doq port=8530 )

If multiple Designated Resolvers are available, using one or more encrypted DNS protocols, the
resolver deployment can indicate a preference using the priority fields in each SVCB record
[RFC9460]
.

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

 use that record to discover a Designated Resolver, in accordance with

. The client can still use other records in the same response if the client can understand

If the client encounters a mandatory parameter in a SVCB record it does not understand, it
NOT
[RFC9460]
all of their mandatory parameters. This allows future encrypted deployments to simultaneously
support protocols even if a given client is not aware of all those protocols. For example, if the
Unencrypted DNS Resolver returns three SVCB records -- one for DoH, one for DoT, and one for a
yet-to-exist protocol -- a client that only supports DoH and DoT should be able to use those
records while safely ignoring the third record.

Section 8 of

MUST

To avoid name lookup deadlock, clients that use Designated Resolvers need to ensure that a
specific Encrypted DNS Resolver is not used for any queries that are needed to resolve the name
of the resolver itself or to perform certificate revocation checks for the resolver, as described in
Section 10 of [RFC8484]
. Designated Resolvers need to ensure that this deadlock is avoidable, as
also described in

Section 10 of [RFC8484]
.

This document focuses on discovering DoH, DoT, and DoQ Designated Resolvers. Other protocols
can also use the format defined by
some form of certificate validation, new validation mechanisms will need to be defined to
support validating designation as defined in Section 4.2.

. However, if any such protocol does not involve

[RFC9461]

4.  Discovery Using Resolver IP Addresses

When a DNS client is configured with an Unencrypted DNS Resolver IP address, it
the resolver for SVCB records of a service with a scheme of "dns" and an authority of
"resolver.arpa" before making other queries. This allows the client to switch to using encrypted
DNS for all other queries, if possible. Specifically, the client issues a query for
_dns.resolver.arpa. with the SVCB resource record type (64)

[RFC9460]
.

SHOULD

 query

Responses to the SVCB query for the "resolver.arpa" SUDN describe Designated Resolvers. To
ensure that different Designated Resolver configurations can be correctly distinguished and
associated with A and AAAA records for the resolver, ServiceMode SVCB responses to these
queries
 use the "." or "resolver.arpa" value for the TargetName. Similarly, clients
NOT

 perform A or AAAA queries for "resolver.arpa".

MUST NOT

MUST

The following is an example of a SVCB record describing a DoH server discovered by querying
for _dns.resolver.arpa.:

_dns.resolver.arpa.  7200  IN SVCB 1 doh.example.net (
     alpn=h2 dohpath=/dns-query{?dns} )

The following is an example of a SVCB record describing a DoT server discovered by querying for
_dns.resolver.arpa.:

_dns.resolver.arpa.  7200  IN SVCB 1 dot.example.net (
     alpn=dot port=8530 )

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

The following is an example of a SVCB record describing a DoQ server discovered by querying
for _dns.resolver.arpa.:

_dns.resolver.arpa.  7200  IN SVCB 1 doq.example.net (
     alpn=doq port=8530 )

If the recursive resolver that receives this query has one or more Designated Resolvers, it will
return the corresponding SVCB records. When responding to these special queries for
"resolver.arpa", the recursive resolver
SHOULD
the Designated Resolver in the Additional Answers section. This will save the DNS client an
additional round trip to retrieve the address of the Designated Resolver; see
[RFC9460]
.

 include the A and AAAA records for the name of

Section 5 of

SHOULD

 be accessible using the IP address families that are supported by

Designated Resolvers
their associated Unencrypted DNS Resolvers. If an Unencrypted DNS Resolver is accessible using
an IPv4 address, it ought to provide an A record for an IPv4 address of the Designated Resolver;
similarly, if it is accessible using an IPv6 address, it ought to provide a AAAA record for an IPv6
address of the Designated Resolver. The Designated Resolver
than the Unencrypted DNS Resolver, but it
that only have connectivity over one address family might not be able to access the Designated
Resolver.

 support more address families
 support fewer. If this is not done, clients

SHOULD NOT

MAY

If the recursive resolver that receives this query has no Designated Resolvers, it
NODATA for queries to the "resolver.arpa" zone, to provide a consistent and accurate signal to
clients that it does not have a Designated Resolver.

SHOULD

 return

4.1.  Use of Designated Resolvers

When a client discovers Designated Resolvers from an Unencrypted DNS Resolver IP address, it
can choose to use these Designated Resolvers either (1) automatically or (2) based on some other
policy, heuristic, or user choice.

This document defines two preferred methods for automatically using Designated Resolvers:

•

Verified Discovery (Section 4.2), for when a TLS certificate can be used to validate the
resolver's identity.

•

Opportunistic Discovery (Section 4.3), for when a resolver's IP address is a private or local
address.

MAY

A client
 additionally use a discovered Designated Resolver without either of these methods,
based on implementation-specific policy or user input. Details of such policy are out of scope for
this document. Clients
validation, such as the two methods defined in this document or a future mechanism. Use
without validation can allow an attacker to direct traffic to an Encrypted DNS Resolver that is
unrelated to the original Unencrypted DNS Resolver, as described in Section 7.

 automatically use a Designated Resolver without some sort of

MUST NOT

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

MUST NOT

 reuse a designation discovered using the IP address of one Unencrypted DNS
A client
Resolver in place of any other Unencrypted DNS Resolver. Instead, the client needs to repeat the
discovery process to discover the Designated Resolver of the other Unencrypted DNS Resolver. In
other words, designations are per-resolver and
universal DNS behavior. This ensures in all cases that queries are being sent to a party
designated by the resolver originally being used.

 be used to configure the client's

MUST NOT

4.1.1.  Use of Designated Resolvers across Network Changes

If a client is configured with the same Unencrypted DNS Resolver IP address on multiple
different networks, a Designated Resolver that has been discovered on one network
be reused on any of the other networks without repeating the discovery process for each
network, since the same IP address may be used for different servers on the different networks.

SHOULD NOT

4.2.  Verified Discovery

Verified Discovery is a mechanism that allows the automatic use of a Designated Resolver that
supports DNS encryption that performs a TLS handshake.

In order to be considered a verified Designated Resolver, the TLS certificate presented by the
Designated Resolver needs to pass the following checks made by the client:

1.

MUST

The client
of [RFC5280]
otherwise configured.

. The client

 verify the chain of certificates up to a trust anchor as described in

Section 6
 use the default system or application trust anchors, unless

SHOULD

2.

MUST

 verify that the certificate contains the IP address of the designating

The client
Unencrypted DNS Resolver in an iPAddress entry of the subjectAltName extension as
described in

Section 4.2.1.6 of [RFC5280]

.

If these checks pass, the client
which it would have otherwise used the Unencrypted DNS Resolver, so as to prefer encrypted
DNS whenever possible.

 use the discovered Designated Resolver for any cases in

SHOULD

MUST NOT

If these checks fail, the client
 automatically use the discovered Designated Resolver if
this designation was only discovered via a _dns.resolver.arpa. query (if the designation was
advertised directly by the network as described in Section 6.5, the server can still be used).
Additionally, the client
Unencrypted DNS Resolver for the length of time indicated by the SVCB record's Time to Live
(TTL) in order to avoid excessive queries that will lead to further failed validations. The client
 issue new queries if the SVCB record's TTL is excessively long (as determined by client
MAY
policy) to minimize the length of time an intermittent attacker can prevent the use of encrypted
DNS.

 suppress any further queries for Designated Resolvers using this

SHOULD

If the Designated Resolver and the Unencrypted DNS Resolver share an IP address, clients
choose to opportunistically use the Designated Resolver even without this certificate check
(Section 4.3). If the IP address is not shared, opportunistic use allows for attackers to redirect
queries to an unrelated Encrypted DNS Resolver, as described in Section 7.

MAY

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

Connections to a Designated Resolver can use a different IP address than the IP address of the
Unencrypted DNS Resolver -- for example, if the process of resolving the SVCB service yields
additional addresses. Even when a different IP address is used for the connection, the TLS
certificate checks described in this section still apply for the original IP address of the
Unencrypted DNS Resolver.

4.3.  Opportunistic Discovery

There are situations where Verified Discovery of encrypted DNS configuration over unencrypted
DNS is not possible. For example, the identities of Unencrypted DNS Resolvers on private IP
addresses
[RFC1918]
, and Link-Local addresses
[RFC3927] [RFC4291]

[RFC4193]
, Unique Local Addresses (ULAs)
 cannot be safely confirmed using TLS certificates under most conditions.

An opportunistic privacy profile is defined for DoT in
which clients do not validate the name of the resolver presented in the certificate. This
opportunistic privacy profile similarly applies to DoQ
[RFC7858]
 explains that clients might or might not validate the resolver; however, even if clients
choose to perform some certificate validation checks, they will not be able to validate the names
presented in the SubjectAltName (SAN) field of the certificate for private and local IP addresses.

Section 4.1 of [RFC7858]

. For this profile,

Section 4.1 of

 as a mode in

[RFC9250]

MAY

 use information from the SVCB record for _dns.resolver.arpa. with this

A client
opportunistic privacy profile as long as the IP address of the Encrypted DNS Resolver does not
differ from the IP address of the Unencrypted DNS Resolver. Clients
for resolvers using private or local IP addresses, since resolvers that use other addresses are able
to provision TLS certificates for their addresses.

 use this mode only

SHOULD

5.  Discovery Using Resolver Names

A DNS client that already knows the name of an Encrypted DNS Resolver can use DDR to discover
details about all supported encrypted DNS protocols. This situation can arise if a client has been
configured to use a given Encrypted DNS Resolver, or if a network provisioning protocol (such as
DHCP or IPv6 RAs) provides a name for an Encrypted DNS Resolver alongside the resolver IP
address, such as by using Discovery of Network-designated Resolvers (DNR)

[RFC9463]
.

For these cases, the client simply sends a DNS SVCB query using the known name of the resolver.
This query can be issued to the named Encrypted DNS Resolver itself or to any other resolver.
Unlike the case of bootstrapping from an Unencrypted DNS Resolver (Section 4), these records
 be available in the public DNS if the same domain name's A or AAAA records are
SHOULD
available in the public DNS to allow using any resolver to discover another resolver's Designated
Resolvers. When the name can only be resolved in private namespaces, these records
 be
available to the same audience as the A and AAAA records.

SHOULD

For example, if the client already knows about a DoT server resolver.example.com, it can issue
a SVCB query for _dns.resolver.example.com to discover if there are other encrypted DNS
protocols available. In the following example, the SVCB answers indicate that
resolver.example.com supports both DoH and DoT and that the DoH server indicates a higher
priority than the DoT server.

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

_dns.resolver.example.com.  7200  IN SVCB 1 resolver.example.com. (
     alpn=h2 dohpath=/dns-query{?dns} )
_dns.resolver.example.com.  7200  IN SVCB 2 resolver.example.com. (
     alpn=dot )

MUST

 validate that for any Encrypted DNS Resolver discovered using a known resolver

Clients
name, the TLS certificate of the resolver contains the known name in a subjectAltName
extension. In the example above, this means that both servers need to have certificates that cover
the name resolver.example.com. Often, the various supported encrypted DNS protocols will be
specified such that the SVCB TargetName matches the known name, as is true in the example
above. However, even when the TargetName is different (for example, if the DoH server had a
TargetName of doh.example.com), the clients still check for the original known resolver name in
the certificate.

Note that this resolver validation is not related to the DNS resolver that provided the SVCB
answer.

As another example, being able to discover a Designated Resolver for a known Encrypted DNS
Resolver is useful when a client has a DoT configuration for foo.resolver.example.com but is
on a network that blocks DoT traffic. The client can still send a query to any other accessible
resolver (either the local network resolver or an accessible DoH server) to discover if there is a
designated DoH server for foo.resolver.example.com.

6.  Deployment Considerations

Resolver deployments that support DDR are advised to consider the following points.

6.1.  Caching Forwarders

SHOULD NOT

 forward queries for "resolver.arpa" (or any subdomains)

A DNS forwarder
upstream. This prevents a client from receiving a SVCB record that will fail to authenticate
because the forwarder's IP address is not in the SubjectAltName (SAN) field of the upstream
resolver's Designated Resolver's TLS certificate. A DNS forwarder that already acts as a
completely transparent forwarder
expects that this does not apply, because the operator either knows that the upstream resolver
does have the forwarder's IP address in its TLS certificate's SAN field or expects clients to validate
the connection via some future mechanism.

 choose to forward these queries when the operator

MAY

Operators who choose to forward queries for "resolver.arpa" upstream should note that client
behavior is never guaranteed and that the use of DDR by a resolver does not communicate a
requirement for clients to use the SVCB record when it cannot be verified.

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

6.2.  Certificate Management

Resolver owners that support Verified Discovery will need to list valid referring IP addresses in
their TLS certificates. This may pose challenges for resolvers with a large number of referring IP
addresses.

6.3.  Server Name Handling

MUST NOT

Clients
Indication (SNI)

 use "resolver.arpa" as the server name in either (1) the TLS Server Name

[RFC8446]

 for DoT, DoQ, or DoH connections or (2) the URI host for DoH requests.

When performing discovery using resolver IP addresses, clients
of the Unencrypted DNS Resolver as the URI host for DoH requests.

MUST

 use the original IP address

Note that since IP addresses are not supported by default in the TLS SNI, resolvers that support
discovery using IP addresses will need to be configured to present the appropriate TLS certificate
when no SNI is present for DoT, DoQ, and DoH.

6.4.  Handling Non-DDR Queries for resolver.arpa

DNS resolvers that support DDR by responding to queries for _dns.resolver.arpa.
resolver.arpa as a locally served zone per
SHOULD
and queries of any type for any domain name under resolver.arpa with NODATA.

MUST
. In practice, this means that resolvers

 respond to queries of any type other than SVCB for _dns.resolver.arpa. with NODATA

[RFC6303]

 treat

6.5.  Interaction with Network-Designated Resolvers

 and through IPv6 RA options

 allows a network to provide designation of resolvers directly through DHCP

DNR
[RFC9463]
[RFC2132] [RFC8415]
clients can suppress queries for "resolver.arpa" to the unencrypted DNS server indicated by the
network over DHCP or RAs, and the DNR indications
discovered using "resolver.arpa" for the same resolver if there is a conflict, since DNR is
considered a more reliable source.

 take precedence over those

. When such indications are present,

[RFC8106]

SHOULD

The Designated Resolver information in DNR might not contain a full set of SvcParams needed to
connect to an Encrypted DNS Resolver. In such a case, the client can use a SVCB query using a
resolver name, as described in Section 5, to the Authentication Domain Name (ADN).

7.  Security Considerations

Since clients can receive DNS SVCB answers over unencrypted DNS, on-path attackers can
prevent successful discovery by dropping SVCB queries or answers and thus can prevent clients
from switching to using encrypted DNS. Clients should be aware that it might not be possible to
distinguish between resolvers that do not have any Designated Resolver and such an active
attack. To limit the impact of discovery queries being dropped either maliciously or
unintentionally, clients can re-send their SVCB queries periodically.

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

Section 8.2 of [RFC9461]
 describes another type of downgrade attack where an attacker can block
connections to the encrypted DNS server. For DDR, clients need to validate a Designated Resolver
using a connection to the server before trusting it, so attackers that can block these connections
can prevent clients from switching to using encrypted DNS.

Encrypted DNS Resolvers that allow discovery using DNS SVCB answers over unencrypted DNS
 provide differentiated behavior based solely on metadata in the SVCB record, such as
MUST NOT
the HTTP path or alternate port number, which are parameters that an attacker could modify.
For example, if a DoH resolver provides a filtering service for one URI path and a non-filtered
service for another URI path, an attacker could select which of these services is used by
modifying the "dohpath" parameter. These attacks can be mitigated by providing separate
resolver IP addresses or hostnames.

While the IP address of the Unencrypted DNS Resolver is often provisioned over insecure
mechanisms, it can also be provisioned securely, such as via manual configuration, on a VPN, or
on a network with protections like RA-Guard
encrypted DNS traffic to itself by causing the client to think that a discovered Designated
Resolver uses a different IP address from the Unencrypted DNS Resolver. Such a Designated
Resolver might have a valid certificate but might be operated by an attacker that is trying to
observe or modify user queries without the knowledge of the client or network.

. An attacker might try to direct

[RFC6105]

If the IP address of a Designated Resolver differs from that of an Unencrypted DNS Resolver,
clients applying Verified Discovery (Section 4.2)
Unencrypted DNS Resolver is covered by the SubjectAltName (SAN) of the Designated Resolver's
TLS certificate. If that validation fails, the client
Designated Resolver.

 validate that the IP address of the

 automatically use the discovered

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

 be limited to cases where the
Clients using Opportunistic Discovery (Section 4.3)
Unencrypted DNS Resolver and Designated Resolver have the same IP address, which
a private or local IP address. Clients that do not follow Opportunistic Discovery (Section 4.3) and
instead try to connect without first checking for a designation run the possible risk of being
intercepted by an attacker hosting an Encrypted DNS Resolver on an IP address of an
Unencrypted DNS Resolver where the attacker has failed to gain control of the Unencrypted DNS
Resolver.

SHOULD

 be

The constraints on the use of Designated Resolvers specified here apply specifically to the
automatic discovery mechanisms defined in this document, which are referred to as Verified
Discovery and Opportunistic Discovery. Clients
Designated Resolvers discovered using the DNS SVCB record. However, the use of such an
alternate mechanism needs to take into account the attack scenarios detailed here.

 use some other mechanism to verify and use

MAY

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Special-Use Domain Name "resolver.arpa"

IANA has registered "resolver.arpa" in the "Special-Use Domain Names" registry established by
[RFC6761]
.

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

IANA has added an entry in the "Transport-Independent Locally-Served DNS Zone Registry" for
'resolver.arpa.' with the description "DNS Resolver Special-Use Domain" and listed this document
as the reference.

8.2.  Domain Name Reservation Considerations

In accordance with
relative to this document:

Section 5 of [RFC6761]

, the answers to the following questions are provided

1.

Are human users expected to recognize these names as special and use them differently? In
what way?

No. This name is used automatically by DNS stub resolvers running on client devices on
behalf of users, and users will never see this name directly.

2.

Are writers of application software expected to make their software recognize these names
as special and treat them differently? In what way?

No. There is no use case where a non-DNS application (covered by the next question) would
need to use this name.

3.

Are writers of name resolution APIs and libraries expected to make their software recognize
these names as special and treat them differently? If so, how?

Yes.  DNS client implementors are expected to use this name when querying for a resolver's
properties instead of records for the name itself. DNS servers are expected to respond to
queries for this name with their own properties instead of checking the matching zone as it
would for normal domain names.

4.

Are developers of caching domain name servers expected to make their implementations
recognize these names as special and treat them differently? If so, how?

Yes.  Caching domain name servers should not forward queries for this name, to avoid
causing validation failures due to IP address mismatch.

5.

Are developers of authoritative domain name servers expected to make their
implementations recognize these names as special and treat them differently? If so, how?

No. DDR is designed for use by recursive resolvers. Theoretically, an authoritative server
could choose to support this name if it wants to advertise support for encrypted DNS
protocols over plaintext DNS, but that scenario is covered by other work in the IETF DNSOP
Working Group.

6.

Does this reserved Special-Use Domain Name have any potential impact on DNS server
operators? If they try to configure their authoritative DNS server as authoritative for this
reserved name, will compliant name server software reject it as invalid? Do DNS server
operators need to know about that and understand why? Even if the name server software
doesn't prevent them from using this reserved name, are there other ways that it may not
work as expected, of which the DNS server operator should be aware?

This name is locally served, and any resolver that supports this name should never forward
the query. DNS server operators should be aware that records for this name will be used by
clients to modify the way they connect to their resolvers.

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

7.

How should DNS Registries/Registrars treat requests to register this reserved domain name?
Should such requests be denied? Should such requests be allowed, but only to a specially
designated entity?

IANA holds the registration for this name. Non-IANA requests to register this name should
always be denied by DNS Registries/Registrars.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC1918]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3927]

[RFC4193]

[RFC4291]

[RFC5280]

[RFC6303]

[RFC6761]

[RFC7858]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8484]

,

Rekhter, Y. Moskowitz, B. Karrenberg, D. de Groot, G. J.
Allocation for Private Internets" BCP 5 RFC 1918 DOI 10.17487/RFC1918
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1918>
February 1996,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

E. Lear "Address
,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

E. Guttman "Dynamic Configuration of IPv4 Link-
Cheshire, S. Aboba, B.
, and
Local Addresses" RFC 3927 DOI 10.17487/RFC3927
,
editor.org/info/rfc3927>
.

, May 2005,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Hinden, R.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4193

B. Haberman "Unique Local IPv6 Unicast Addresses" RFC 4193
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4193>
.

,
, October 2005,

 and

,

Hinden, R.
10.17487/RFC4291

S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>
.

,
, February 2006,

 and

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Andrews, M. "Locally Served DNS Zones" BCP 163 RFC 6303 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6303

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6303>
.

, July 2011,

,

,

,

Cheshire, S.
10.17487/RFC6761

 and

M. Krochmal "Special-Use Domain Names" RFC 6761 DOI

,

,

,

, February 2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6761>

.

,

,

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.
"Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

P. Hoffman

, and

,

.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC8484

 and

P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

[RFC9250]

[RFC9460]

[RFC9461]

[RFC9463]

Huitema, C. Dickinson, S.
,
Connections" RFC 9250 DOI 10.17487/RFC9250
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9250>
.

, and

A. Mankin "DNS over Dedicated QUIC

,

, May 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

Schwartz, B. Bishop, M.
,
,
Specification via the DNS (SVCB and HTTPS Resource Records)" RFC 9460 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9460>
10.17487/RFC9460
.

E. Nygren "Service Binding and Parameter

, November 2023,

, and

,

,

Schwartz, B. "Service Binding Mapping for DNS Servers" RFC 9461 DOI
10.17487/RFC9461

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9461>

, November 2023,

,

,

.

,

Boucadair, M., Ed. Reddy.K, T., Ed. Wing, D. Cook, N.
Router Advertisement Options for the Discovery of Network-designated
Resolvers (DNR)" RFC 9463 DOI 10.17487/RFC9463
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9463>

, November 2023,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://

T. Jensen "DHCP and

,

9.2.  Informative References

[DoH-HINTS]

[ECH]

[RFC2132]

[RFC6105]

[RFC8106]

[RFC8415]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8880]

, and

J. Kipp "DoH Preference Hints for HTTP" Work in
Schinazi, D. Sullivan, N.
,
,
,
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-schinazi-httpbis-doh-preference-hints-02
, 13 July
2020,
preference-hints-02>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-schinazi-httpbis-doh-

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. Oku, K. Sullivan, N.
Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-esni-17
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-esni-17>

, and

C. A. Wood "TLS Encrypted Client Hello"
,
<https://

, 9 October 2023,

,

,

,

.

 and

Alexander, S.
,
2132 DOI 10.17487/RFC2132
, March 1997,
,
rfc2132>

.

R. Droms "DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions" RFC

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Levy-Abegnoli, E. Van de Velde, G. Popoviciu, C.
Advertisement Guard" RFC 6105 DOI 10.17487/RFC6105
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6105>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

J. Mohacsi "IPv6 Router

,
, February 2011,

,

,

Jeong, J. Park, S. Beloeil, L.
, and
Options for DNS Configuration" RFC 8106 DOI 10.17487/RFC8106
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8106>

,
.

,

S. Madanapalli "IPv6 Router Advertisement

, March 2017,

Mrugalski, T. Siodelski, M. Volz, B. Yourtchenko, A. Richardson, M. Jiang, S.
,
Lemon, T.
, and
(DHCPv6)" RFC 8415 DOI 10.17487/RFC8415
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8415>

T. Winters "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6

, November 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

,

,

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

Cheshire, S.
,
 and
8880 DOI 10.17487/RFC8880
,
, August 2020,
rfc8880>

.

D. Schinazi "Special Use Domain Name 'ipv4only.arpa'" RFC

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

Appendix A.  Rationale for Using a Special-Use Domain Name

The "resolver.arpa" SUDN is similar to "ipv4only.arpa" in that the querying client is not interested
in an answer from the authoritative "arpa" name servers. The intent of the SUDN is to allow
clients to communicate with the Unencrypted DNS Resolver much like "ipv4only.arpa" allows for
client-to-middlebox communication. For more context, see
"ipv4only.arpa".

 for the rationale behind

[RFC8880]

Appendix B.  Rationale for Using SVCB Records

These mechanisms use SVCB/HTTPS resource records
domain designates a particular Designated Resolver for clients to use in place of an Unencrypted
DNS Resolver (using a SUDN) or another Encrypted DNS Resolver (using its domain name).

 to communicate that a given

[RFC9460]

There are various other proposals for how to provide similar functionality. There are several
reasons that these mechanisms have chosen SVCB records:

•

Discovering Encrypted DNS Resolvers using DNS records keeps client logic for DNS self-
contained and allows a DNS resolver operator to define which resolver names and IP
addresses are related to one another.

•

Using DNS records also does not rely on bootstrapping with higher-level application
operations (such as those discussed in

[DoH-HINTS]

).

•

SVCB records are extensible and allow the definition of parameter keys, making them a
superior mechanism for extensibility as compared to approaches such as overloading TXT
records. The same keys can be used for discovering Designated Resolvers of different
transport types as well as those advertised by Unencrypted DNS Resolvers or another
Encrypted DNS Resolver.

•

Clients and servers that are interested in privacy of names will already need to support SVCB
. Without encrypting names in
records in order to use the TLS Encrypted ClientHello
TLS, the value of encrypting DNS is reduced, so pairing the solutions provides the greatest
benefit.

[ECH]

Authors' Addresses

Tommy Pauly
Apple Inc.
One Apple Park Way
Cupertino California 95014
,
United States of America
Email:

 tpauly@apple.com

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9462

DDR

November 2023

Eric Kinnear
Apple Inc.
One Apple Park Way
Cupertino California 95014
,
United States of America
Email:

 ekinnear@apple.com

Christopher A. Wood
Cloudflare
101 Townsend St
San Francisco California 94107
United States of America
Email:

 caw@heapingbits.net

,

Patrick McManus
Fastly
Email:

 mcmanus@ducksong.com

Tommy Jensen
Microsoft
Email:

 tojens@microsoft.com

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

