Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9041
8029, 8611
Standards Track
July 2021
2070-1721

L. Andersson
Bronze Dragon Consulting

M. Chen
Huawei Technologies

C. Pignataro
Cisco Systems

T. Saad
Juniper Networks

RFC 9041
Updating the MPLS Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping
Parameters IANA Registry

Abstract

This document updates RFCs 8029 and 8611, both of which deﬁne IANA registries for MPLS Label
Switched Path (LSP) Ping. In particular, the registration procedure "Private Use" (previously
known as "Vendor Private Use") has been changed to "First Come First Served" for the TLV and
sub-TLV registries.

It also updates the description of the procedures for the responses sent when an unknown or
erroneous code point is found. The updates are to clarify and align this namespace with recent
developments, e.g., aligning terminology with RFC 8126 instead of the now obsoleted RFC 5226
(both titled "Guidelines for Writing an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs").

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9041

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Terminology

1.2.1.  Terminology Used in This Document

1.2.2.  Abbreviations

2.  Updating the Message Types, Reply Modes, and Return Codes Registries

3.  Updating the TLV and Sub-TLV Registries

3.1.  General Principles for the LSP Ping TLV and Sub-TLV Registries

3.1.1.  Unrecognized Experimental Use TLVs and Sub-TLVs

3.2.  Common Registration Procedures for TLVs and Sub-TLVs

3.3.  Changes to the LSP Ping Registries

3.3.1.  Changes Common to the TLV and Sub-TLV Registries

4.  Updates to Related RFCs

4.1.  Updates to RFC 8029

4.2.  Updates to RFC 8611

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Updates by IANA to the Message Types, Reply Modes, and Return Codes Registries

6.1.1.  Updates to the Message Types Registry

6.1.2.  Updates to the Reply Modes Registry

6.1.3.  Updates to the Return Codes Registry

6.2.  Updates to the TLV and Sub-TLV Registries

6.2.1.  Updates to the TLVs Registry

6.2.2.  Updates to the Registry for Sub-TLVs for TLV Types 1, 16, and 21

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

6.2.3.  Updates to the Registry for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6

6.2.4.  Updates to the Registry for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 11

6.2.5.  Updates to the Registry for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 20

6.2.6.  Updates to the Registry for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 23

6.2.7.  Updates to the Registry for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 27

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

There were a number of reasons to start the work that has led to this document, e.g.,

•

When the LSP Ping registry was created, it was incorrectly assumed that code points
allocated by Experimental RFCs would be "experimental" code points; a code point made
available in a public IANA registry is not limited by the type of RFC that made the allocation:
it is available for use in any type of document.

•

The number of "experimental" code points was also too large as compared to what is
normally allocated for "Experimental Use".

•

The words "mandatory" and "optional" are used diﬀerently in
For example,
certain action if the TLV is found in a message but is not recognized. Other RFCs use
"mandatory TLV" to indicate a TLV that must be present in a message.

 than in other RFCs.
 talks about mandatory TLVs to indicate that it is mandatory to take a

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

Over time, there have been attempts to administratively update some of the registries, but it was
soon decided that an RFC was needed. Other, often minor, potential updates were found, e.g.,
reserving the value 0 (zero) in registries where that is possible.

[RFC8029]
(LSPs) Ping Parameters" IANA namespace

[IANA-LSP-PING]

.

 contains updates to the "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths

[RFC8611]
clariﬁes the entries in those registries and makes the deﬁnitions more precise.

 created LSP Ping IANA registries that match

[RFC8126]

. This document further

This document updates

[RFC8029]

 and

[RFC8611]

 by updating two groups of registries as follows:

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

[IANA-RM]
[IANA-MT]
First, the "Message Types"
registries are updated. The changes to these registries are minor.

, "Reply Modes"

, and "Return Codes"

[IANA-RC]

Second, this document updates the TLV and sub-TLV registries listed below:

•

"TLVs",

[IANA-TLV-reg]

•

"Sub-TLVs for TLV Types 1, 16, and 21",

[IANA-Sub-1-16-21]

•

"Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6",

[IANA-Sub-6]

•

"Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 11",

[IANA-Sub-11]

•

"Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 20",

[IANA-Sub-20]

•

"Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 23",

[IANA-Sub-23]

•

"Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 27",

[IANA-Sub-27]

[RFC8029]

 was published before

It should be noted that
terminology for some registration procedures, e.g., "Vendor Private Use".
published after
now both "Vendor Private Use" and "Private Use" have been removed and replaced with "First
Come First Served" (FCFS) code points.

 and uses its recommended terminology, e.g., "Private Use". However,

 and uses outdated

[RFC8126]

[RFC8611]

[RFC8126]

 was

One reason to change from code points allocated by Vendor Private Use or Private Use is that
such code points are allowed in production networks. Theoretically, it is possible that two
vendors might use the same code point value with diﬀerent meanings. If such a code is ever
deployed in the same network, this could cause protocol issues that would be hard to debug.

With FCFS code points, this will not happen. Vendors that have existing code using Vendor
Private Use or Private Use code points should register those code points as FCFS code points as
soon as this document is published as an RFC.

The "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 9" subregistry is not updated.

[RFC8029]

, some code points (TLVs and sub-TLVs) are called "mandatory" or

Third, according to
"optional". Contrary to how other RFCs use these words, indicating that it is mandatory or
optional to include the code points in a message,
action might or might not be mandatory. This document updates
"mandatory" and "optional", and the text is changed to focus on what should be done.

 uses these words to indicate that an

 to drop the words

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Terminology

This section lists terms that are used when discussing the hierarchy of IANA registries (Section
1.2.1), and abbreviations used in IANA registries are updated in this document (Section 1.2.2).

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

1.2.1.  Terminology Used in This Document

Terms related to IANA registries are used as follows in this document:

Namespace

A namespace is a top-level registry. An example could be "Multiprotocol Label Switching
(MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters"
often a container for registries that hold code points that share some aﬃnity.

[IANA-LSP-PING]

. A namespace is most

Registry

An IANA registry holds code points and lists the registration procedures and allocation for
these code points. One example would be the "TLVs" registry

[IANA-TLV-reg]

.

Subregistry

A subregistry is used when a code point, or a set of code points allocated in a single registry,
needs "sub-code-points" scoped by the code point or the set of code points. An example of a
subregistry that holds code points for more than one TLV is "Sub-TLVs for TLV Types 1, 16,
and 21"

[IANA-Sub-1-16-21]

.

1.2.2.  Abbreviations

This section lists abbreviations used in the unchanged part of the registries updated by this
document. These abbreviations were originally expanded in the document deﬁning the
registries. They are listed here following the requirement to expand any abbreviation that is not
well known. All these abbreviations are from the "Return Codes" registry

[IANA-RC]

.

BFD:

Bidirectional Forwarding Detection

DDMAP:

Downstream Detailed Mapping

FEC:

Forwarding Equivalence Class

OAM:

Operation, Administration, and Maintenance

PM:

RSC:

Performance Monitoring

Return Subcode

2.  Updating the Message Types, Reply Modes, and Return
Codes Registries

The following changes have been made to the "Message Types"
RM]

, and "Return Codes"

 registries.

[IANA-RC]

[IANA-MT]

, "Reply Modes"

[IANA-

•

In the listing of assigned code points, the term "Vendor Private Use" is changed to "Private
Use" for the 252-255 range. The registration procedures have been updated to reﬂect this.

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

•

The registration procedure "Speciﬁcation Required" is changed to "RFC Required" and the
note "Experimental RFC needed" is removed for the 192-247 range.

•

A small set of four code points (248-251) for Experimental Use is added by reducing the "RFC
Required" range. The registration procedures have been updated to reﬂect this.

•

A note "Reserved, not to be assigned" has been added for the registration procedures of the
"Private Use" and "Experimental Use" ranges.

•

In the lists that capture the assignment status, the ﬁelds that are reserved, i.e., 0 (zero),
Private Use, and Experimental Use, are clearly marked as such.
◦

[IANA-RC]
Note that in the "Return Codes" registry
assigned. This assignment is not changed, and in this registry, the code point "0" continues
to be assigned as "No Return Code".

, the code point "0" has already been

The new registration procedures, the registry layouts, and the new assignments for these
registries are found in Section 6.1.

3.  Updating the TLV and Sub-TLV Registries

3.1.  General Principles for the LSP Ping TLV and Sub-TLV Registries

The following principles apply to the processing of any TLV from any of the LSP Ping TLV and
sub-TLV IANA registries.

•

All TLVs and sub-TLVs with a type in the range 0-32767 require a response if they are not
recognized.

•

All TLVs and sub-TLVs in the range 32768-65535 can be silently dropped if they are not
recognized. Alternatively, the receiver may step over the unrecognized TLV or send an error
message.

Each of the blocks has code point spaces with the following registration procedures:

•

Standards Action

•

RFC Required

•

Experimental Use

•

First Come First Served (FCFS)

The exact deﬁnitions of these procedures are found in

.
[RFC8126]

3.1.1.  Unrecognized Experimental Use TLVs and Sub-TLVs

Unrecognized TLVs and sub-TLVs in the Experimental Use and FCFS ranges are handled as any
other unrecognized TLV or sub-TLV.

•

If the unrecognized TLV or sub-TLV is from the Experimental Use range (31740-31743) or
from the FCFS range (31744-32767), a Return Code of 2 ("One or more of the TLVs was not
understood") must be sent in the echo response.

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

•

If a TLV or sub-TLV from the Experimental Use range (64508-64511) or from the FCFS range
(64512-65535) is unrecognized, then the receiver can silently drop the TLV. Alternatively, the
receiver may step over the unrecognized TLV or send an error message.

The IETF does not prescribe how recognized or unrecognized Experimental Use and Private Use
TLVs and sub-TLVs are handled in experimental or private networks; that is up to the agency
running the experimental or the private network. The statement above describes how standards-
compliant implementations must treat the unrecognized TLVs and sub-TLVs from these ranges.

3.2.  Common Registration Procedures for TLVs and Sub-TLVs

This section describes the new registration procedures for the TLV and sub-TLV registries.

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

0-16383

Standards Action

16384-31739

RFC Required

This range is for TLVs and sub-TLVs that require an
error message if not recognized. This document,
Section 3.1

This range is for TLVs and sub-TLVs that require an
error message if not recognized. This document,
Section 3.1

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for TLVs and sub-TLVs
that require an error message if not recognized. This
document, Section 3.1

31744-32767

FCFS

This range is for TLVs and sub-TLVs that require an
error message if not recognized. This document,
Section 3.1

32768-49161

Standards Action

This range is for TLVs and sub-TLVs that can be silently
dropped if not recognized.

49162-64507

RFC Required

This range is for TLVs and sub-TLVs that can be silently
dropped if not recognized.

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for TLVs and sub-TLVs
that can be silently dropped if not recognized.

64512-65535

FCFS

This range is for TLVs and sub-TLVs that can be silently
dropped if not recognized.

Table 1: TLV and Sub-TLV Registration Procedures

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

3.3.  Changes to the LSP Ping Registries

This section lists the changes to each MPLS LSP Ping TLV and sub-TLV registry. Sections 6.2.1 to
6.2.7 describe how the new versions of the IANA registries should look, together with the
registration procedures for each registry.

The new registration procedure descriptions and the new assignments for these registries are
used to model the changed MPLS LSP Ping registries; see Section 6.

3.3.1.  Changes Common to the TLV and Sub-TLV Registries

The following changes are made to the TLV and sub-TLV registries.

•

The registration procedures "First Come First Served" (FCFS) and "Experimental Use" have
been added to the table of registration procedures.

•

Two small sets of code points (four code points each) for Experimental Use have been
created. The ﬁrst set is for the range that requires a response if the TLV or sub-TLV is not
recognized; the second set is for the range where the TLV or sub-TLV may be silently
dropped if not recognized. The code points for Experimental Use have been taken from the
ranges previously called "Speciﬁcation Required" and "RFC Required"

[RFC8029]

.

•

The registration procedure "Speciﬁcation Required" has been changed to "RFC Required",
and the note "Experimental RFC needed" has been removed.

•

In the listing of assignments, the term "Vendor Private Use" has been changed to "First Come
First Served" (FCFS).

•

In the listing of assignments, the range for "Experimental Use" has been added.

•

A note saying "Not to be assigned" has been added for the registration procedure
"Experimental Use".

•

In the list that captures assignment status, the ﬁelds that are reserved, i.e., 0 (zero) and
Experimental Use, have been clearly marked.

4.  Updates to Related RFCs

Some referenced RFCs use the concept "mandatory TLVs" and "mandatory sub-TLVs" to indicate
that, if a TLV or sub-TLV of the range 0-32767 in a message is not understood, an error message
needs to be sent in response.

The same RFCs use "optional TLVs" and "optional sub-TLVs" to mean TLVs or sub-TLVs that can be
silently ignored if not recognized.

Since other RFCs use "mandatory TLVs" and "mandatory sub-TLVs" to indicate TLVs and sub-TLVs
that must be present in a message, we want to discontinue the use of "mandatory" to indicate
TLVs and sub-TLVs that require an error message in response if not understood. The changes to
the RFCs below align with this practice.

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

4.1.  Updates to RFC 8029

"Mandatory" and "optional" are used to indicate whether a response is needed if a TLV or sub-
TLV is not understood in Section 3 of "Detecting Multiprotocol Label Switched (MPLS) Data-Plane
Failures"

[RFC8611]

.

The text in those two paragraphs is now updated to the following:

TLV and sub-TLV types less than 32768 (i.e., with the high-order bit equal to 0) are TLVs
and sub-TLVs that
 either be supported by an implementation or result in a Return
Code of 2 ("One or more of the TLVs was not understood") being sent in the echo
response.

MUST

An implementation that does not understand or support a received TLV or sub-TLV with
a type greater than or equal to 32768 (i.e., with the high-order bit equal to 1)
ignore and step over the TLV or sub-TLV; however, an implementation
echo response with a Return Code of 2 ("One or more of the TLVs was not understood")
as it would have done if the high-order bit had been clear.

SHOULD
 send an

MAY

Section 3.8 of [RFC8029]

In
section are now updated to read as follows:

, "mandatory" is used in the same way. The ﬁrst two paragraphs of this

The following TLV is a TLV that
of an echo request that includes TLV or sub-TLV Types less than 32768 (i.e., with the
high-order bit equal to 0) that are either not supported by the implementation or parsed
and found to be in error.

 be included in an echo reply to inform the sender

MAY

The Value ﬁeld uses sub-TLVs to encode the received TLVs and sub-TLVs that were not
understood.

4.2.  Updates to RFC 8611

Section 13.4.1 of "Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping and Traceroute Multipath Support for Link
Aggregation Group (LAG) Interfaces"

 deﬁnes "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6"

[RFC8611]

[IANA-Sub-6]
.

The "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6" registry has been updated to align with changes deﬁned in this
document.

Section 13.4.1 of [RFC8611]

 is now updated as follows:

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Section 13.4.1 Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6

IANA has created a new subregistry, "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6",
registry
(LSPs) Ping Parameters" namespace

 of the "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths
.

[lsp-ping-Namespace]

[IANA-TLV-reg]

[IANA-Sub-6]

 under the "TLVs"

The "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6" subregistry is now updated to align with changes deﬁned in this
document.

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

0-16383

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

16384-31739

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that
require an error message if not recognized. This
document, Section 3.1

31744-32767

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

32768-49161

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

49162-64507

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that can
be silently dropped if not recognized.

64512-65535

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

Table 2: Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6 Registration Procedures

5.  Security Considerations

This document updates IANA registries. It also updates terminology used to deﬁne, and clariﬁes
the terminology related to, the code points in the registries. The document does not change how
the code points in the registries are used. This should not create any new threats.

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

However, the updated terminology and the clariﬁcations improve security because it makes it
more likely that implementations will be consistent and harder to attack.

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has updated the "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping
Parameters" namespace

 as described in this document.

[IANA-LSP-PING]

See Section 1.2.1 of "Terminology Used in This Document" to see how "namespace", "registry",
and "subregistry" are used in this document.

In other parts of this document, the commonality of the changes to the LSP Ping registries has
been the focus. For the IANA Considerations, each changed registry has been described in its own
right.

The following registries and subregistries have been changed:

•

"Message Types",

[IANA-MT]

•

"Reply Modes",

[IANA-RM]

•

"Return Codes",

[IANA-RC]

•

"TLVs",

[IANA-TLV-reg]

•

"Sub-TLVs for TLV Types 1, 16, and 21",

[IANA-Sub-1-16-21]

•

"Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6",

[IANA-Sub-6]

•

"Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 11",

[IANA-Sub-11]

•

"Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 20",

[IANA-Sub-20]

•

"Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 23",

[IANA-Sub-23]

•

"Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 27",

[IANA-Sub-27]

This document has been listed as an additional reference for each of the registries described in
Sections 6.1 and 6.2.

6.1.  Updates by IANA to the Message Types, Reply Modes, and Return Codes
Registries

This section details the updated registration procedures and allocations for the "Message Types",
"Reply Modes", and "Return Codes" registries.

6.1.1.  Updates to the Message Types Registry

These are the changes to the "Message Types" registry speciﬁed in this document:

•

Code Point 0 (zero) has been marked Reserved.

•

The registration procedure "Speciﬁcation Required" has been changed to "RFC Required",
and the comment "Experimental RFC needed" has been removed.

•

Four code points have been taken from what was previously "Speciﬁcation Required" to
form a set of code points for "Experimental Use".

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

The registration procedures after the changes listed above for the "Message Types" registry are
shown in the table below:

Range

Registration Procedures Note

0-191

Standards Action

192-247

RFC Required

248-251

Experimental Use

Reserved, not to be assigned

252-255

Private Use

Reserved, not to be assigned

Table 3: Message Types Registration Procedures

The updated assignments for the "Message Types" registry appear as follows:

Value

Meaning

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

5

Reserved

This document

MPLS Echo Request

MPLS Echo Reply

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

MPLS Proxy Ping Request

[RFC7555]

MPLS Proxy Ping Reply

[RFC7555]

MPLS Relayed Echo Reply

[RFC7743]

6-247

Unassigned

248-251

Reserved for Experimental Use

This document

252-255

Reserved for Private Use

[RFC8029]

Table 4: Assignments for the Message Types Registry

6.1.2.  Updates to the Reply Modes Registry

These are the changes to the "Reply Modes" registry speciﬁed in this document:

•

Code Point 0 (zero) has been marked Reserved.

•

The registration procedure "Speciﬁcation Required" has been changed to "RFC Required",
and the comment "Experimental RFC needed" has been removed.

•

Four code points have been taken from what was previously "Speciﬁcation Required" to
form a set of code points for "Experimental Use".

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

The registration procedures after the changes for the "Reply Modes" registry are shown in the
table below:

Range

Registration Procedures Note

0-191

Standards Action

192-247

RFC Required

248-251

Experimental Use

Reserved, not to be assigned

252-255

Private Use

Reserved, not to be assigned

Table 5: Reply Modes Registration Procedures

The updated assignments for the "Reply Modes" registry are as follows:

Value

Meaning

Reserved

Do not reply

Reply via an IPv4/IPv6 UDP packet

Reference

This document

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

Reply via an IPv4/IPv6 UDP packet with Router Alert

[RFC8029]

Reply via application-level control channel

[RFC8029]

Reply via Speciﬁed Path

[RFC7110]

0

1

2

3

4

5

6-247

Unassigned

248-251

Reserved for Experimental Use

This document

252-255

Reserved for Private Use

[RFC8029]

Table 6: Assignments for the Reply Modes Registry

6.1.3.  Updates to the Return Codes Registry

These are the changes to the "Return Codes" registry speciﬁed in this document:

•

The registration procedure "Speciﬁcation Required" has been changed to "RFC Required",
and the comment "Experimental RFC needed" has been removed.

•

Four code points have been taken from what was previously "Speciﬁcation Required" to
form a set of code points for "Experimental Use".

The registration procedures after the changes for the "Return Codes" registry are shown in the
table below:

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Range

Registration Procedures Note

0-191

Standards Action

192-247

RFC Required

248-251

Experimental Use

Reserved, not to be assigned

252-255

Private Use

Reserved, not to be assigned

Table 7: Return Codes Registration Procedures

The updated assignments for the "Return Codes" registry are as follows:

Value

Meaning

No Return Code

Malformed echo request received

One or more of the TLVs was not understood

Replying router is an egress for the FEC at stack-depth
<RSC>

Reference

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

Replying router has no mapping for the FEC at stack-depth
<RSC>

[RFC8029]

Downstream Mapping Mismatch (See [1])

Upstream Interface Index Unknown (See [1])

Reserved

Label switched at stack-depth <RSC>

Label switched but no MPLS forwarding at stack-depth
<RSC>

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

Mapping for this FEC is not the given label at stack-depth
<RSC>

[RFC8029]

No label entry at stack-depth <RSC>

Protocol not associated with interface at FEC stack-depth
<RSC>

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

Premature termination of ping due to label stack shrinking
to a single label

[RFC8029]

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Value

Meaning

See DDMAP TLV for meaning of Return Code and Return
Subcode (See [2])

Label switched with FEC change

Proxy Ping not authorized

Proxy Ping parameters need to be modiﬁed

MPLS Echo Request could not be sent

Reference

[RFC8029]

[RFC8029]

[RFC7555]

[RFC7555]

[RFC7555]

Replying router has FEC mapping for topmost FEC

[RFC7555]

One or more TLVs not returned due to MTU size

[RFC7743]

OAM Problem/Unsupported BFD Version

[RFC7759]

OAM Problem/Unsupported BFD Encapsulation format

[RFC7759]

OAM Problem/Unsupported BFD Authentication Type

[RFC7759]

OAM Problem/Mismatch of BFD Authentication Key ID

[RFC7759]

OAM Problem/Unsupported Timestamp Format

OAM Problem/Unsupported Delay Mode

OAM Problem/Unsupported Loss Mode

OAM Problem/Delay variation unsupported

OAM Problem/Dyadic mode unsupported

OAM Problem/Loopback mode unsupported

OAM Problem/Combined mode unsupported

[RFC7759]

[RFC7759]

[RFC7759]

[RFC7759]

[RFC7759]

[RFC7759]

[RFC7759]

OAM Problem/Fault management signaling unsupported

[RFC7759]

OAM Problem/Unable to create fault management
association

[RFC7759]

OAM Problem/PM Conﬁguration Error

[RFC7759]

Mapping for this FEC is not associated with the incoming
interface

[RFC8287], Section
7.4

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Value

Meaning

36-247

Unassigned

248-251

Reserved for Experimental Use

252-255

Reserved for Private Use

Table 8: Assignments for the Return Codes Registry

Reference

This document

[RFC8029]

Note 1:

Notes [1] and [2] for code points 5, 6, and 14 point to footnotes in the "Multiprotocol

Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters" namespace. The
footnotes are not changed by this document.

Note 2:

<RSC> stands for "Return Subcode" and is explained in

Section 3.1 of [RFC8029]

.

6.2.  Updates to the TLV and Sub-TLV Registries

The updates to the TLV and the sub-TLV registries are mostly the same; however, the "Sub-TLVs
for TLV Type 9"

 registry has not been updated.

[IANA-Sub-9]

Note that when a ﬁeld in an assignment table says "EQ", it means that there is no change from
the existing ﬁeld in the "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping
Parameters" namespace

[IANA-LSP-PING]

.

6.2.1.  Updates to the TLVs Registry

This section describes the new registration procedures and the assignments for the "TLVs"
registry

 that are based on them.

[IANA-TLV-reg]

The registration procedures have been changed, as follows, for the "TLVs" registry.

•

The "Speciﬁcation Required" registration procedure has been changed to "RFC Required".
The comment "Experimental RFC Required" has been removed. Note that when a ﬁeld in an
assignment table says "EQ", it means that there is no change from the existing ﬁeld in the
"Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters"
namespace

[IANA-LSP-PING]

.

• [RFC8611]

 was published after

 and uses the new terminology, e.g., "Private Use".
The code points registration procedure "Private Use" has been replaced by the "First Come
First Served" code point registration procedure.

[RFC8126]

•

Two small sets, four code points each, have been created for Experimental Use.

•

Code points that are reserved are clearly marked as such.

•

The assignments have been updated to match the new registration procedures.

•

The notes related to the registration procedures have been changed to reﬂect whether or not
a response is required if a TLV is not recognized.

The registration procedures for the "TLVs" registry
are shown in the table below:

[IANA-TLV-reg]

 after the changes listed above

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

0-16383

Standards Action

This range is for TLVs that require an error message if
not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

16384-31739

RFC Required

This range is for TLVs that require an error message if
not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for TLVs that require
an error message if not recognized. This document,
Section 3.1

31744-32767

FCFS

This range is for TLVs that require an error message if
not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

32768-49161

Standards Action

This range is for TLVs that can be silently dropped if
not recognized.

49162-64507

RFC Required

This range is for TLVs that can be silently dropped if
not recognized.

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for TLVs that can be
silently dropped if not recognized.

64512-65535

FCFS

This range is for TLVs that can be silently dropped if
not recognized.

Table 9: TLVs Registration Procedures

The updated assignments for this registry appear as follows:

Note that when a ﬁeld in an assignment table says "EQ", it means that there was no change from
the existing ﬁeld in the "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping
Parameters" namespace

[IANA-LSP-PING]

.

Type

TLV Name

Reference

Sub-TLV Registry

0

1-7

8

9-16

17-19

Reserved

EQ

Unassigned

EQ

Unassigned

This
document

EQ

EQ

EQ

EQ

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Type

20-27

TLV Name

Reference

Sub-TLV Registry

EQ

EQ

EQ

28-31739

Unassigned

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

This
document

Not to be assigned. This range is for TLVs
that require an error message if not
recognized. This document, Section 3.1

31744-32767

Unassigned

32768-32770

EQ

32771-64507

EQ

EQ

EQ

EQ

EQ

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

This
document

Not to be assigned. This range is for TLVs
that can be silently dropped if not
recognized.

64512-65535

Unassigned

Table 10: TLV Assignments

6.2.2.  Updates to the Registry for Sub-TLVs for TLV Types 1, 16, and 21

This section describes the new registration procedures and the assignments for the "Sub-TLVs for
TLV Types 1, 16, and 21"

 subregistry that are based on them.

[IANA-Sub-1-16-21]

•

The "Speciﬁcation Required" registration procedure has been changed to "RFC Required",
and the comment "Experimental RFC Required" has been removed.

•

The code points registration procedure "Vendor Private Use" has been removed and replaced
with "First Come First Served" procedure.

•

Two small sets, four code points each, have been created for Experimental Use.

•

Code points that are reserved are clearly marked as such.

•

The assignments have been updated to match the new registration procedures.

•

The notes related to the registration procedures have been changed to reﬂect whether or not
a response is required if a sub-TLV is not recognized.

The registration procedures for the "Sub-TLVs for TLV Types 1, 16, and 21"
subregistry appear as follows after the changes listed above:

[IANA-Sub-1-16-21]

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

0-16383

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

16384-31739

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that
require an error message if not recognized. This
document, Section 3.1

31744-32767

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

32768-49161

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

49162-64507

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that can
be silently dropped if not recognized.

64512-65535

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

Table 11: Registration Procedures for Sub-TLVs for TLV Types 1, 16, and 21

Sub-Type

Sub-TLV Name

Reference

Comment

0

1-4

5

6-8

9

10-20

21

Reserved

This document

EQ

Unassigned

EQ

EQ

EQ

Unassigned

EQ

EQ

EQ

EQ

EQ

EQ

EQ

DEPRECATED

EQ

EQ

22-37

EQ

38

PeerAdj SID Sub-
TLV

[draft-ietf-
mpls-sr-epe-
oam-03]

TEMPORARY - registered 2021-05-11,
expires 2022-05-11

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Sub-Type

Sub-TLV Name

Reference

Comment

39

40

PeerNode SID
Sub-TLV

PeerSet SID Sub-
TLV

[draft-ietf-
mpls-sr-epe-
oam-03]

[draft-ietf-
mpls-sr-epe-
oam-03]

TEMPORARY - registered 2021-05-11,
expires 2022-05-11

TEMPORARY - registered 2021-05-11,
expires 2022-05-11

41-31739

Unassigned

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental
Use

31744-64507

Unassigned

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental
Use

64512-65535

Unassigned

This document

Not to be assigned. This range is for
sub-TLVs that require an error message
if not recognized. This document,
Section 3.1

This document

Not to be assigned. This range is for
sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped if
not recognized.

Table 12: Sub-TLV for TLVs 1, 16, and 21 Assignments

6.2.3.  Updates to the Registry for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6

This section describes the new registration procedures and the assignments for the "Sub-TLVs for
TLV Type 6"

 subregistry that are based on them.

[IANA-Sub-6]

• [RFC8611]

 was published after

 and uses the new terminology, e.g., "Private Use".
The code points registration procedure "Private Use" has been replaced by the "First Come
First Served" code point registration procedure.

[RFC8126]

•

Two small sets, four code points each, have been created for Experimental Use.

•

Code points that are reserved are clearly marked as such.

•

The assignments have been updated to match the new registration procedures.

•

The notes related to the registration procedures have been changed to reﬂect whether or not
a response is required if a sub-TLV is not recognized.

The registration procedures for the "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6"
changes listed above are shown in the table below:

[IANA-Sub-6]

 subregistry after the

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

0-16383

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

16384-31739

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that
require an error message if not recognized. This
document, Section 3.1

31744-32767

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

32768-49161

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

49162-64507

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that can
be silently dropped if not recognized.

64512-65535

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

Table 13: Registration Procedures for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6

Sub-Type

Sub-TLV Name

Reference

Comment

0

1-2

Reserved

This document,
[RFC8611]

EQ

EQ

EQ

3-31739

Unassigned

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental
Use

31744-64507

Unassigned

This document

Not to be assigned. This range is
for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This
document, Section 3.1

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Sub-Type

Sub-TLV Name

Reference

Comment

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental
Use

64512-65535

Unassigned

This document

Not to be assigned. This range is
for sub-TLVs that can be silently
dropped if not recognized.

Table 14: Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6 Assignments

6.2.4.  Updates to the Registry for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 11

This section describes the new registration procedures and the assignments for the "Sub-TLVs for
TLV Type 11"

 subregistry that are based on them.

[IANA-Sub-11]

•

The "Speciﬁcation Required" registration procedure has been changed to "RFC Required",
and the comment "Experimental RFC Required" has been removed.

•

The code points registration procedure "Vendor Private Use" has been removed and replaced
with "First Come First Served" code points.

•

Two small sets, four code points each, have been created for Experimental Use.

•

Code points that are reserved are clearly marked as such.

•

The assignments have been updated to match the new registration procedures.

•

The notes related to the registration procedures have been changed to reﬂect whether or not
a response is required if a sub-TLV is not recognized.

The registration procedures for the "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 11"
the changes listed above are shown in the table below:

[IANA-Sub-11]

 subregistry after

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

0-16383

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

16384-31739

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that
require an error message if not recognized. This
document, Section 3.1

31744-32767

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1

32768-49161

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

49162-64507

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that can
be silently dropped if not recognized.

64512-65535

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

Table 15: Registration Procedures for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 11

Sub-Type

Sub-TLV Name

Reference

Comment

0

1-4

Reserved

This
document

EQ

EQ

EQ

5-31739

Unassigned

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

This
document

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-
TLVs that require an error message if not
recognized. This document, Section 3.1

31744-64507

Unassigned

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

This
document

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-
TLVs that can be silently dropped if not
recognized.

64512-65535

Unassigned

Table 16: Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 11 Assignments

6.2.5.  Updates to the Registry for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 20

This section describes the new registration procedures and the assignments for the "Sub-TLVs for
TLV Type 20"

 subregistry that are based on them.

[IANA-Sub-20]

•

The "Speciﬁcation Required" registration procedure has been changed to "RFC Required",
and the comment "Experimental RFC Required" has been removed.

•

The code points registration procedure "Vendor Private Use" has been removed and replaced
with "First Come First Served" code points.

•

Two small sets, four code points each, have been created for Experimental Use.

•

Code points that are reserved are clearly marked as such.

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

•

The assignments have been updated to match the new registration procedures.

•

The notes related to the registration procedures have been changed to reﬂect whether or not
a response is required if a sub-TLV is not recognized.

The registration procedures for the "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 20"
the changes listed above are shown in the table below:

[IANA-Sub-20]

 subregistry after

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

0-16383

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1]

16384-31739

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1]

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that
require an error message if not recognized. This
document, Section 3.1]

31744-32767

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1]

32768-49161

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

49162-64507

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that can
be silently dropped if not recognized.

64512-65535

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

Table 17: Registration Procedures for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 20

Sub-Type

Sub-TLV Name

Reference

Comment

0

1-5

Reserved

This
document

EQ

EQ

EQ

6-31739

Unassigned

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Sub-Type

Sub-TLV Name

Reference

Comment

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

This
document

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-
TLVs that require an error message if not
recognized. This document, Section 3.1]

31744-64507

Unassigned

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

This
document

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-
TLVs that can be silently dropped if not
recognized.

64512-65535

Unassigned

Table 18: Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 20 Assignments

6.2.6.  Updates to the Registry for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 23

This section describes the new registration procedures and the assignments for the "Sub-TLVs for
TLV Type 23"

 subregistry that are based on them.

[IANA-Sub-23]

•

The "Speciﬁcation Required" registration procedure has been changed to "RFC Required",
and the comment "Experimental RFC Required" has been removed.

•

The code points registration procedure "Vendor Private Use" has been removed and replaced
with "First Come First Served" code points.

•

Two small sets, four code points each, have been created for Experimental Use.

•

Code points that are reserved are clearly marked as such.

•

The assignments have been updated to match the new registration procedures.

•

The notes related to the registration procedures have been changed to reﬂect whether or not
a response is required if a sub-TLV is not recognized.

The registration procedures for the "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 23"
the changes listed above are shown in the table below:

[IANA-Sub-23]

 subregistry after

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

0-16383

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1]

16384-31739

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1]

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that
require an error message if not recognized. This
document, Section 3.1]

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

31744-32767

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1]

32768-49161

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

49162-64507

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that can
be silently dropped if not recognized.

64512-65535

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

Table 19: Registration Procedures for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 23

Sub-Type

Sub-TLV Name

Reference

Comment

0

1

Reserved

[RFC7555]

EQ

EQ

EQ

2-31739

Unassigned

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

This
document

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-
TLVs that require an error message if not
recognized. This document, Section 3.1]

31744-64507

Unassigned

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

This
document

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-
TLVs that can be silently dropped if not
recognized.

64512-65535

Unassigned

Table 20: Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 23 Assignments

6.2.7.  Updates to the Registry for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 27

This section describes the new registration procedures and the assignments for the "Sub-TLVs for
TLV Type 27"

 subregistry that are based on them.

[IANA-Sub-27]

•

The "Speciﬁcation Required" registration procedure has been changed to "RFC Required",
and the comment "Experimental RFC Required" has been removed.

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

•

The code points registration procedure "Vendor Private Use" has been removed and replaced
with "First Come First Served" code points.

•

Two small sets, four code points each, have been created for Experimental Use.

•

Code points that are reserved are clearly marked as such.

•

The assignments have been updated to match the new registration procedures.

•

The notes related to the registration procedures have been changed to reﬂect whether or not
a response is required if a sub-TLV is not recognized.

The registration procedures for the "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 27"
the changes listed above are shown in the table below:

[IANA-Sub-27]

 subregistry after

Range

Registration
Procedures

Note

0-16383

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1]

16384-31739

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1]

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs that
require an error message if not recognized. This
document, Section 3.1]

31744-32767

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that require an error
message if not recognized. This document, Section 3.1]

32768-49161

Standards Action

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

49162-64507

RFC Required

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

64508-64511

Experimental Use

Reserved, not to be assigned. This range is for sub-TLVs
that can be silently dropped if not recognized.

64512-65535

FCFS

This range is for sub-TLVs that can be silently dropped
if not recognized.

Table 21: Registration Procedures for Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 27

Sub-Type

Sub-TLV Name

Reference

Comment

0

1-99

Reserved

[RFC7759]

Unassigned

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Sub-Type

Sub-TLV Name

Reference

Comment

100-104

EQ

105-199

Unassigned

200-202

EQ

203-299

Unassigned

300

EQ

301-399

Unassigned

400

EQ

401-31739

Unassigned

EQ

EQ

EQ

EQ

EQ

EQ

EQ

EQ

31740-31743

Reserved for
Experimental Use

This
document

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-
TLVs that require an error message if not
recognized. This document, Section 3.1]

31744-64507

Unassigned

64508-64511

Reserved for
Experimental Use

This
document

Not to be assigned. This range is for sub-
TLVs that can be silently dropped if not
recognized.

64512-65535

Unassigned

Table 22: Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 27 Assignments

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[IANA-LSP-PING]

IANA "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs)

,

Ping Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-ping-
parameters>

.

,

[IANA-MT]

[IANA-RC]

[IANA-RM]

,
IANA "Message Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-ping-
parameters/>

.

,

,
IANA "Return Codes" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-ping-
parameters/>

.

,

,
IANA "Reply Modes" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-ping-
parameters/>

,

.

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

[IANA-Sub-1-16-21]

IANA "Sub-TLVs for TLV Types 1, 16, and 21" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

[IANA-Sub-11]

[IANA-Sub-20]

[IANA-Sub-23]

[IANA-Sub-27]

[IANA-Sub-6]

[IANA-TLV-reg]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8611]

assignments/mpls-lsp-ping-parameters/>

.

,

IANA "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 11" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-
ping-parameters/>

,

.

,

IANA "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 20" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-
ping-parameters/>

,

.

,

IANA "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 23" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-
ping-parameters/>

,

.

,

IANA "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 27" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-
ping-parameters/>

,

.

,

IANA "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 6" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-
ping-parameters/>

,

.

IANA "TLVs" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-ping-parameters/>

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Kompella, K. Swallow, G. Pignataro, C., Ed. Kumar, N. Aldrin, S.
,
"Detecting Multiprotocol Label Switched (MPLS) Data-Plane Failures" RFC 8029
DOI 10.17487/RFC8029
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8029>

M. Chen
, and
,

, March 2017,

,

,

,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

.

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Akiya, N. Swallow, G. Litkowski, S. Decraene, B. Drake, J.
Switched Path (LSP) Ping and Traceroute Multipath Support for Link
Aggregation Group (LAG) Interfaces" RFC 8611 DOI 10.17487/RFC8611
2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8611>

, and

,
.

,

,

,

, June

M. Chen "Label
,

7.2.  Informative References

[IANA-Sub-9]

,

IANA "Sub-TLVs for TLV Type 9" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-
ping-parameters/>

,

.

[lsp-ping-Namespace]

,

IANA "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths
(LSPs) Ping Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/mpls-lsp-ping-
parameters/>

,

.

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

[RFC7110]

[RFC7555]

[RFC7743]

[RFC7759]

[RFC8287]

,

Chen, M. Cao, W. Ning, S. Jounay, F.
, and
,
Switched Path (LSP) Ping" RFC 7110 DOI 10.17487/RFC7110
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7110>

,
,

,

.

S. Delord "Return Path Speciﬁed Label

, January 2014,

Swallow, G. Lim, V.
10.17487/RFC7555

,

, and

S. Aldrin "Proxy MPLS Echo Request" RFC 7555 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7555>

,

,

.

,

, June 2015,

,

Luo, J., Ed. Jin, L., Ed. Nadeau, T., Ed.
Mechanism for Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping" RFC 7743 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7743

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7743>

, January 2016,

G. Swallow, Ed. "Relayed Echo Reply

, and

,
,

,

,

.

,

,

Bellagamba, E. Mirsky, G. Andersson, L. Skoldstrom, P. Ward, D.
"Conﬁguration of Proactive Operations, Administration, and Maintenance
(OAM) Functions for MPLS-Based Transport Networks Using Label Switched
,
Path (LSP) Ping" RFC 7759 DOI 10.17487/RFC7759
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7759>

, February 2016,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

.

J. Drake

,

,

,

Kumar, N., Ed. Pignataro, C., Ed. Swallow, G. Akiya, N. Kini, S.
"Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping/Traceroute for Segment Routing (SR) IGP-Preﬁx
,
and IGP-Adjacency Segment Identiﬁers (SIDs) with MPLS Data Planes" RFC 8287
DOI 10.17487/RFC8287
rfc8287>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2017,

M. Chen

, and

.

,

,

,

,

Acknowledgements

The authors wish to thank
serve as the Document Shepherd.

Adrian Farrel

, who both made very useful comments and agreed to

The authors also wish to thank
with us to determine how our registries could and should be updated.

Michelle Cotton

Amanda Baber

 and

, who very patiently worked

The authors thank

Donald Eastlake 3rd

 and

Tom Petch

 for their careful and detailed review.

Authors' Addresses

Loa Andersson
Bronze Dragon Consulting
Email:

 loa@pi.nu

Mach(Guoyi) Chen
Huawei Technologies
Email:

 mach.chen@huawei.com

Carlos Pignataro
Cisco Systems
Email:

 cpignata@cisco.com

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9041

LSP Ping Registries

July 2021

Tarek Saad
Juniper Networks
Email:

 tsaad@juniper.net

Andersson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

