Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9219
Standards Track
April 2022
2070-1721
A. Melnikov
Isode Ltd

RFC 9219
S/MIME Signature Veriﬁcation Extension to the JSON
Meta Application Protocol (JMAP)

Abstract

This document speciﬁes an extension to "The JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) for Mail"
(RFC 8621) for returning the S/MIME signature veriﬁcation status.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9219

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Melnikov

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9219

JMAP Extension for S/MIME

April 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  Addition to the Capabilities Object

4.  Extension for S/MIME Signature Veriﬁcation

4.1.  Extension to Email/get

4.1.1.  "smimeStatus" Response Property Extensibility

4.2.  Extension to Email/query

4.3.  Interaction with Email/changes

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  JMAP Capability Registration for "smimeverify"

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

JMAP for Mail [RFC8621]
between a client and a server.

 is a JSON-based application protocol for synchronizing email data

[RFC8551]

, without requiring a JMAP client to download the signature body part and all

This document describes an extension to JMAP for returning the S/MIME signature veriﬁcation
status
signed body parts (when the multipart/signed media type
 is used) or to download and
decode the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) (when the application/pkcs7-mime media type
) is used). The use of the extension implies the client trusts the JMAP
(
Section 3.2 of [RFC8551]
server's S/MIME signature veriﬁcation code and conﬁguration. This extension is suitable for
cases where reduction in network bandwidth and client-side code complexity outweigh security
concerns about trusting the JMAP server to perform S/MIME signature veriﬁcations. One possible
use case is when the same organization controls both the JMAP server and the JMAP client.

[RFC1847]

Melnikov

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9219

JMAP Extension for S/MIME

April 2022

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

Type signatures, examples, and property descriptions in this document follow the conventions
established in
in this document.

. Data types deﬁned in the core speciﬁcation are also used

Section 1.1 of [RFC8620]

3.  Addition to the Capabilities Object

The capabilities object is returned as part of the standard JMAP Session object; see
[RFC8620]
"urn:ietf:params:jmap:smimeverify" to the capabilities object.

. Servers supporting this speciﬁcation

 add a property called

MUST

Section 2 of

The value of this property is an empty object in both the JMAP Session capabilities property and
an account's accountCapabilities property.

4.  Extension for S/MIME Signature Veriﬁcation

4.1.  Extension to Email/get

[RFC8621]
document deﬁnes the following pseudo values in the properties argument:

 deﬁnes the Email/get method for retrieving message-speciﬁc information. This

smimeStatus:

If "smimeStatus" is included in the list of requested properties, it
server as a request to return the "smimeStatus" response property.

MUST

 be interpreted by the

smimeStatusAtDelivery:

If "smimeStatusAtDelivery" is included in the list of requested properties, it
interpreted by the server as a request to return the "smimeStatusAtDelivery" response
property. (It is eﬀectively the same as the "smimeStatus" value calculated at the date/time of
delivery, as speciﬁed by "receivedAt".)

MUST

 be

smimeErrors:

If "smimeErrors" is included in the list of requested properties, it
server as a request to return the "smimeErrors" response property.

MUST

 be interpreted by the

smimeVeriﬁedAt:

If "smimeVeriﬁedAt" is included in the list of requested properties, it
server as a request to return the "smimeVeriﬁedAt" response property.

MUST

 be interpreted by the

Melnikov

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9219

JMAP Extension for S/MIME

April 2022

The "smimeStatus" response property is deﬁned as follows:

smimeStatus:

"String|null" (server-set). null signiﬁes that the message doesn't contain any signature.
Otherwise, this property contains the S/MIME signature and certiﬁcate veriﬁcation status
calculated according to
. Possible string values of the
property are listed below. Servers
extensions to this document. Clients
failed". Note that the value of this property might change over time.

[RFC8551] [RFC8550]
,
MAY

 return other values not deﬁned below, as deﬁned in

 treat unrecognized values as "unknown" or "signed/

[RFC5280]

, and

MUST

unknown:

An S/MIME message, but it was neither signed nor encrypted. This can also be returned for
a multipart/signed message that contains an unrecognized signing protocol (for example,
OpenPGP).

signed:

An S/MIME signed message, but the signature was not yet veriﬁed. Some servers might not
attempt to verify a signature until a particular message is requested by the client. (This is a
useful optimization for a JMAP server to avoid doing work until exact information is
needed. A JMAP client that only needs to display an icon that signiﬁes presence of an S/
MIME signature can still use this value.) JMAP servers compliant with this document
 attempt signature veriﬁcation and return "signed/veriﬁed" or "signed/failed"
SHOULD
instead of this signature status.

signed/veriﬁed:

[RFC8551]

An S/MIME signed message, and the sender's signature was successfully veriﬁed according
to
MIME certiﬁcate matches the From header ﬁeld value, and the signer certiﬁcate
be checked for revocation.

. Additionally, the signer email address extracted from the S/

[RFC8550]

SHOULD

 and

signed/failed:

S/MIME signed message, but the signature failed to verify according to
. This might be because of a policy-related decision (e.g., the message signer email
[RFC8550]
address doesn't match the From header ﬁeld value), the message was modiﬁed, the signer's
certiﬁcate has expired or was revoked, etc.

[RFC8551]

 and

encrypted+signed/veriﬁed:

This value is reserved for future use. It is typically handled in the same way as "signed/
veriﬁed".

encrypted+signed/failed:

This value is reserved for future use. It is typically handled in the same way as "signed/
failed".

The "smimeStatusAtDelivery" response property has the same syntax as "smimeStatus" but is
calculated in relationship to the "receivedAt" date/time. Unlike "smimeStatus", the
"smimeStatusAtDelivery" response property value doesn't change unless trust anchors are added.
(For example, addition of a trust anchor can change the value of a message

Melnikov

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9219

JMAP Extension for S/MIME

April 2022

"smimeStatusAtDelivery" property from "signed/failed" to "signed/veriﬁed". Note that trust
anchor removal doesn't aﬀect this response property.) The "smimeStatusAtDelivery" response
property value allows clients to compare the S/MIME signature veriﬁcation status at delivery
with the current status as returned by "smimeStatus", for example, to help to answer questions
like "was the signature valid at the time of delivery?".

Note that the "smimeStatusAtDelivery" response property value doesn't have to be calculated at
delivery time. A JMAP server can defer its calculation until it is explicitly requested; however,
once it is calculated, its value is remembered for later use.

The "smimeErrors" response property is deﬁned as follows:

smimeErrors:

"String[]|null" (server-set). null signiﬁes that the message doesn't contain any signature or that
there were no errors when verifying the S/MIME signature. (That is, this property is non-null
only when the corresponding "smimeStatus" response property value is "signed/failed" or
"encrypted+signed/failed". Note that future extensions to this document can specify other
"smimeStatus" values that can be used with "smimeErrors".) Each string in the array is a
human-readable description (in the language speciﬁed in the Content-Language header ﬁeld, if
any) of a problem with the signature, the signing certiﬁcate, or the signing certiﬁcate chain.
(See
 in regards to how this is aﬀected by the language selection.) In
one example, the signing certiﬁcate might be expired and the message From email address
might not correspond to any of the email addresses in the signing certiﬁcate. In another
example, the certiﬁcate might be expired and the JMAP server might be unable to retrieve a
Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL) for the certiﬁcate. In both of these cases, there would be 2
elements in the array.

Section 3.8 of [RFC8620]

The "smimeVeriﬁedAt" response property is deﬁned as follows:

smimeVeriﬁedAt:

"UTCDate|null" (server-set). null signiﬁes that the message doesn't contain any S/MIME
signature or that there is a signature, but there was no attempt to verify it. (Retrieval of the
"smimeStatus" value can be used to distinguish these 2 cases). In all other cases, it is set to the
date and time of when the S/MIME signature was most recently veriﬁed. Note that a request to
fetch "smimeStatus", "smimeStatusAtDelivery", and/or "smimeErrors" would force this
response property to be set to a non-null value if an S/MIME signature exists.

The "smimeStatus" and "smimeErrors" values are calculated at the time the corresponding JMAP
request is processed (but see below about the eﬀect of result caching), not at the time when the
message is generated (according to its Date header ﬁeld value). In all cases, "smimeVeriﬁedAt" is
set to the time when "smimeStatus" and "smimeErrors" were last updated. As recalculating these
 be cached for up to 24 hours from the moment when
values is expensive for the server, they
they were calculated.

MAY

Melnikov

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9219

JMAP Extension for S/MIME

April 2022

Example 1: Retrieval of minimal information about a message, including its From, Subject, and
Date header ﬁelds, as well as the S/MIME signature veriﬁcation status at delivery and date/time
when the message was received.

["Email/get", {
"ids": [ "fe123u457" ],
"properties": [ "mailboxIds", "from", "subject", "date",
 "smimeStatusAtDelivery", "receivedAt" ]
}, "#1"]

This might result in the following response:

[["Email/get", {
   "accountId": "abc",
   "state": "51234123231",
   "list": [
     {
       "id": "fe123u457",
       "mailboxIds": { "f123": true },
       "from": [{"name": "Joe Bloggs",
               "email": "joe@bloggs.example.net"}],
       "subject": "Dinner tonight?",
       "date": "2020-07-07T14:12:00Z",
       "smimeStatusAtDelivery": "signed/verified",
       "receivedAt": "2020-07-07T14:15:18Z"
     }
   ]
}, "#1"]]

Example 2: Retrieval of minimal information about a message, including its From, Subject, and
Date header ﬁelds, as well as the latest S/MIME signature veriﬁcation status, S/MIME veriﬁcation
errors (if any), and when the S/MIME signature status was last veriﬁed. The response contains 2 S/
MIME errors related to S/MIME signature veriﬁcation.

["Email/get", {
"ids": [ "ag123u123" ],
"properties": [ "mailboxIds", "from", "subject", "date",
 "smimeStatus", "smimeErrors", "smimeVerifiedAt" ]
}, "#1"]

This might result in the following response:

Melnikov

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9219

JMAP Extension for S/MIME

April 2022

[["Email/get", {
   "accountId": "abc",
   "state": "47234123231",
   "list": [
     {
       "id": "ag123u123",
       "mailboxIds": { "f123": true },
       "from": [{"name": "Jane Doe",
               "email": "jdoe@example.com"}],
       "subject": "Company takeover",
       "date": "2020-01-31T23:00:00Z",
       "smimeStatus": "signed/failed",
       "smimeErrors": [
         "From email address doesn't match the certificate",
         "Can't retrieve CRL from the CRL URL"],
       "smimeVerifiedAt": "2020-03-01T12:11:19Z"
     }
   ]
}, "#1"]]

4.1.1.  "smimeStatus" Response Property Extensibility

Future extensions to this document can specify extra allowed values for the "smimeStatus"
response property. All values (deﬁned in this document or in extensions to this document)
be in ASCII. (Note that this response property contains tokens; thus, it is not subject to
internationalization or localization).

MUST

New "smimeStatus" response property values deﬁned in extensions may aﬀect the behavior of
properties, such as the "smimeErrors" response property of Email/get (see Section 4.1) or the
"hasVeriﬁedSmime" property of Email/query (see Section 4.2). In particular, the new values can be
treated similarly to values deﬁned in this document.

For example, a putative JMAP extension for automatically decrypting S/MIME messages can
specify two additional values, one specifying that a message is both encrypted and signed with a
valid S/MIME signature (e.g. "encrypted+signed/veriﬁed") and another one specifying that a
message is both encrypted and signed with an invalid S/MIME signature (e.g. "encrypted+signed/
failed"). The former value can be treated as "signed/veriﬁed" (and would thus aﬀect
"hasVeriﬁedSmime") and the latter can be treated as "signed/failed" (and thus can be used with
"smimeErrors").

4.2.  Extension to Email/query

[RFC8621]
This document deﬁnes the following properties of the FilterCondition object:

 deﬁnes the Email/query method for searching for messages with speciﬁc properties.

hasSmime:

"Boolean". If "hasSmime" has the value true, only messages with "smimeStatus" other than null
match the condition. If "hasSmime" has the value false, only messages with "smimeStatus"
equal to null match the condition.

Melnikov

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9219

JMAP Extension for S/MIME

April 2022

hasVeriﬁedSmime:

"Boolean". If "hasVeriﬁedSmime" has the value true, only messages with "smimeStatus" equal
to "signed/veriﬁed" or "encrypted+signed/veriﬁed" (*) match the condition. If
"hasVeriﬁedSmime" has the value false, only messages with "smimeStatus" not equal to
"signed/veriﬁed" and not equal to "encrypted+signed/veriﬁed" (*) (including the value null)
match the condition. Note that use of this attribute is potentially expensive for a JMAP server,
as it forces calculation of the "smimeStatus" property value for each message. However,
caching of the "smimeStatus" values should ameliorate this cost somewhat.

(*) as well as the "smimeStatus" values added by future extensions to this document that are
explicitly speciﬁed as having similar eﬀect to "signed/veriﬁed" as far as "hasVeriﬁedSmime"
calculation is concerned.

hasVeriﬁedSmimeAtDelivery:

"Boolean". The "hasVeriﬁedSmimeAtDelivery" property is handled similarly to the
"hasVeriﬁedSmime" property, but the value of "smimeStatusAtDelivery" is used instead of
"smimeStatus" to assess whether a particular message matches the condition.

4.3.  Interaction with Email/changes

Changes to the "smimeVeriﬁedAt" response property value
 cause the message to be
included in the "updated" argument of the Email/changes response. However, changes to the
"smimeStatus", "smimeStatusAtDelivery", and/or "smimeErrors" response properties
in message inclusion in the "updated" argument of the Email/changes response.

MUST NOT

MUST

 result

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  JMAP Capability Registration for "smimeverify"

IANA has registered the "smimeverify" JMAP capability as follows:

urn:ietf:params:jmap:smimeverify

Capability Name:
Speciﬁcation document:
Intended use:
common
Change Controller:
IETF
Security and privacy considerations:

RFC 9219

RFC 9219, Section 6

6.  Security Considerations

Use of the server-side S/MIME signature veriﬁcation JMAP extension requires the client to trust
the server signature veriﬁcation code, the server conﬁguration, and the server's operational
practices to perform S/MIME signature veriﬁcation, as well as to trust that the channel between
the client and the server is integrity protected. (For example, if the server is not conﬁgured with
some trust anchors, some messages will have the "signed/failed" status instead of "signed/
veriﬁed".) A malicious or compromised server could return a false veriﬁcation status to a client. A

Melnikov

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9219

JMAP Extension for S/MIME

April 2022

successful veriﬁcation could be conveyed to a client for a forged or altered message. A properly
signed message could be signaled as having a failed signature veriﬁcation or no signature at all.
In the case of the latter attack, no new attack surface is presented with this extension above what
a malicious or compromised server could already do by stripping or tampering with the S/MIME
information in the message. In the case of the former attack, client software capable of
performing S/MIME signature veriﬁcation could detect this attack. Local conﬁguration of the
client should determine if this client-side veriﬁcation should occur. For clients without local
veriﬁcation capabilities, such an attack would be diﬃcult to detect.

Integrity protection of the channel between the client and the server is provided by use of TLS, as
required by the JMAP speciﬁcation (see

Section 8.1 of [RFC8620]

).

Constant recalculation of the S/MIME signature status can result in a denial-of-service condition.
For that reason, it is
24 hours.

 that servers cache results of signature veriﬁcation for up to

RECOMMENDED

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8550]

[RFC8551]

[RFC8620]

[RFC8621]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

,
Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
W. Polk "Internet
X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL)
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
.
info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

, and

,

,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

Schaad, J. Ramsdell, B.
Extensions (S/MIME) Version 4.0 Certiﬁcate Handling" RFC 8550 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8550

S. Turner "Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8550>

, April 2019,

, and

,

,

,

,

Schaad, J. Ramsdell, B.
Extensions (S/MIME) Version 4.0 Message Speciﬁcation" RFC 8551 DOI 10.17487/
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8551>
RFC8551

S. Turner "Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail

, April 2019,

, and

,

,

,

,
 and
Jenkins, N.
,
, July 2019,
8620 DOI 10.17487/RFC8620

C. Newman "The JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP)" RFC
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8620>

,

Jenkins, N.
,
Mail" RFC 8621 DOI 10.17487/RFC8621
.
info/rfc8621>

 and
C. Newman "The JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) for
,
, August 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Melnikov

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9219

JMAP Extension for S/MIME

April 2022

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC1847]

,

N. Freed "Security Multiparts for MIME:
Galvin, J. Murphy, S. Crocker, S.
Multipart/Signed and Multipart/Encrypted" RFC 1847 DOI 10.17487/RFC1847
,
October 1995,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1847>
.

, and

,

,

,

Acknowledgements

This document is a product of the JMAP Working Group. Special thank you to
Neil Jenkins Murray Kucherawy Kirsty Paine Benjamin Kaduk Roman Danyliw Peter Yee
,
,
,
Robert Wilton Erik Kline
,
this document.

 for suggestions, comments, and corrections to

Menachem Dodge

Bron Gondwana

, and

,

,

,

,

Author's Address

Alexey Melnikov
Isode Ltd
14 Castle Mews
Hampton, Middlesex
TW12 2NP
United Kingdom
Email:

 Alexey.Melnikov@isode.com

Melnikov

Standards Track

Page 10

