Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9628
Standards Track
March 2025
2070-1721
J. Uberti
OpenAI

M. Flodman
Google

S. Holmer
Google

D. Hong
Google

J. Lennox
8x8 / Jitsi

RFC 9628
RTP Payload Format for VP9 Video

Abstract

This specification describes an RTP payload format for the VP9 video codec. The payload format
has wide applicability as it supports applications from low bitrate peer-to-peer usage to high
bitrate video conferences. It includes provisions for temporal and spatial scalability.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9628
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions

3.  Media Format Description

4.  Payload Format

4.1.  RTP Header Usage

4.2.  VP9 Payload Descriptor

4.2.1.  Scalability Structure (SS)

4.3.  Frame Fragmentation

4.4.  Scalable Encoding Considerations

4.5.  Example of a VP9 RTP Stream

4.5.1.  Reference Picture Use for Scalable Structure

5.  Feedback Messages and Header Extensions

5.1.  Reference Picture Selection Indication (RPSI)

5.2.  Full Intra Request (FIR)

5.3.  Layer Refresh Request (LRR)

6.  Payload Format Parameters

6.1.  SDP Parameters

6.1.1.  Mapping of Media Subtype Parameters to SDP

6.1.2.  Offer/Answer Considerations

7.  Media Type Definition

8.  Security Considerations

9.  Congestion Control

10. IANA Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

3

3

3

5

5

6

10

11

11

12

12

12

12

13

13

14

15

15

16

16

17

17

18

18

18

19

20

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

Authors' Addresses

20

1.  Introduction

This document describes an
of video streams encoded using the VP9 video codec
this document can be used both in peer-to-peer and video conferencing applications.

 payload specification applicable to the transmission
. The format described in

[VP9-BITSTREAM]

RTP [RFC3550]

The VP9 video codec was developed by Google and is the successor to its earlier
codec. Above the compression improvements and other general enhancements to VP8, VP9 is
also designed in a way that allows spatially scalable video encoding.

VP8 [RFC6386]

2.  Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Media Format Description

The VP9 codec can maintain up to eight reference frames, of which up to three can be
referenced by any new frame.

VP9 also allows a frame to use another frame of a different resolution as a reference frame.
(Specifically, a frame may use any references whose width and height are between 1/16th that of
the current frame and twice that of the current frame, inclusive.) This allows internal resolution
changes without requiring the use of keyframes.

These features together enable an encoder to implement various forms of coarse-grained
scalability, including temporal, spatial, and quality scalability modes, as well as combinations of
these, without the need for explicit scalable coding tools.

Temporal layers define different frame rates of video; spatial and quality layers define different
and possibly dependent representations of a single input frame. Spatial layers allow a frame to
be encoded at different resolutions, whereas quality layers allow a frame to be encoded at the
same resolution but at different qualities (and, thus, with different amounts of coding error).
VP9 supports quality layers as spatial layers without any resolution changes; hereinafter, the
term "spatial layer" is used to represent both spatial and quality layers.

This payload format specification defines how such temporal and spatial scalability layers can
be described and communicated.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

Temporal and spatial scalability layers are associated with non-negative integer IDs. The lowest
layer of either type has an ID of zero and is sometimes referred to as the "base" temporal or
spatial layer.

 be encoded, such that if any layer, and all higher layers, are
Layers are designed, and
removed from the bitstream along either the spatial or temporal dimension, the remaining
bitstream is still correctly decodable.

MUST

For terminology, this document uses the term "frame" to refer to a single encoded VP9 frame for
a particular resolution and/or quality, and "picture" to refer to all the representations (frames) at
a single instant in time. Thus, a picture consists of one or more frames, encoding different spatial
layers.

Within a picture, a frame with spatial-layer ID equal to S, where S > 0, can depend on a frame of
the same picture with a lower spatial-layer ID. This "inter-layer" dependency can result in
additional coding gain compared to the case where only "inter-picture" dependency is used,
where a frame depends on a previously coded frame in time. For simplicity, this payload format
assumes that, within a picture and if inter-layer dependency is used, a spatial-layer S frame can
depend only on the immediately previous spatial-layer S-1 frame, when S > 0. Additionally, if
inter-picture dependency is used, a spatial-layer S frame is assumed to only depend on a
previously coded spatial-layer S frame.

Given the above simplifications for inter-layer and inter-picture dependencies, a flag (the D bit
described below) is used to indicate whether a spatial-layer SID frame depends on the spatial-
layer SID-1 frame. Given the D bit, a receiver only needs to additionally know the inter-picture
dependency structure for a given spatial-layer frame in order to determine its decodability. Two
modes of describing the inter-picture dependency structure are possible: "flexible mode" and
"non-flexible mode". An encoder can only switch between the two on the first packet of a
keyframe with a temporal-layer ID equal to zero.

In flexible mode, each packet can contain up to three reference indices, which identify all frames
referenced by the frame transmitted in the current packet for inter-picture prediction. This
(along with the D bit) enables a receiver to identify if a frame is decodable or not and helps it
understand the temporal-layer structure. Since this is signaled in each packet, it makes it possible
to have very flexible temporal-layer hierarchies and scalability structures, which are changing
dynamically.

In non-flexible mode, frames are encoded using a fixed, recurring pattern of dependencies; the
set of pictures that recur in this pattern is known as a "Picture Group" (or "PG"). In this mode, the
inter-picture dependencies (the reference indices) of the PG
 be pre-specified as part of the
Scalability Structure (SS) data. Each packet has an index to refer to one of the described pictures
in the PG from which the pictures referenced by the picture transmitted in the current packet
for inter-picture prediction can be identified.

MUST

Note: A "Picture Group" or "PG", as used in this document, is not the same thing as
the term "Group of Pictures" as it is commonly used in video coding, i.e., to mean an
independently decodable run of pictures beginning with a keyframe.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

The SS data can also be used to specify the resolution of each spatial layer present in the VP9
stream for both flexible and non-flexible modes.

4.  Payload Format

This section describes how the encoded VP9 bitstream is encapsulated in RTP. To handle network
losses, usage of RTP/AVPF
. All integer fields in this specification are
encoded as unsigned integers in network octet order.

RECOMMENDED

[RFC4585]

 is

4.1.  RTP Header Usage

The general RTP payload format for VP9 is depicted below.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |V=2|P|X|  CC   |M|     PT      |       sequence number         |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                           timestamp                           |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |           synchronization source (SSRC) identifier            |
  +=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
  |            contributing source (CSRC) identifiers             |
  |                             ....                              |
  +=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
  |            VP9 payload descriptor (integer #octets)           |
  :                                                               :
  |                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                               :                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
  |                                                               |
  +                                                               |
  :                          VP9 payload                          :
  |                                                               |
  |                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                               :    OPTIONAL RTP padding       |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: General RTP Payload Format for VP9

See Section 4.2 for more information on the VP9 payload descriptor; the VP9 payload is
described in
set.

[VP9-BITSTREAM] OPTIONAL

 RTP padding

MUST NOT

.

 be included unless the P bit is

Marker bit (M):

This bit

MUST

 be set to one for the final packet of the highest spatial-layer

frame (the final packet of the picture); otherwise, it is zero. Unless spatial scalability is in use
for this picture, this bit will have the same value as the E bit described in Section 4.2. Note
this bit
remove higher spatial layers.

 be set to one for the target spatial-layer frame if a stream is being rewritten to

MUST

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

Payload Type (PT):

In line with the policy in

Section 3 of [RFC3551]

, applications using the VP9

RTP payload profile
session and provide a mechanism to indicate the mapping. See Section 6.1 for the mechanism
to be used with the

 assign a dynamic payload type number to be used in each RTP

Session Description Protocol (SDP) [RFC8866]

MUST

.

Timestamp:

The

RTP timestamp [RFC3550]

 indicates the time when the input frame was

sampled, at a clock rate of 90 kHz. If the input picture is encoded with multiple frames, all of
the frames of the picture

 have the same timestamp.

MUST

If a frame has the VP9 show_frame field set to zero (i.e., it is meant only to populate a
reference buffer without being output), its timestamp
as the subsequent frame with show_frame equal to one. (This will be convenient for playing
out pre-encoded content packaged with VP9 "superframes", which typically bundle
show_frame==0 frames with a subsequent show_frame==1 frame.) Every picture containing a
frame with show_frame==1, however,
of the field.

 have a unique timestamp modulo the 232 wrap

 alternatively be set to be the same

MUST

MAY

The remaining RTP Fixed Header Fields (V, P, X, CC, sequence number, SSRC, and CSRC
identifiers) are used as specified in

Section 5.1 of [RFC3550]
.

4.2.  VP9 Payload Descriptor

In flexible mode (with the F bit below set to one), the first octets after the RTP header are the VP9
payload descriptor, with the following structure.

      0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
     |I|P|L|F|B|E|V|Z| (REQUIRED)
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
I:   |M| PICTURE ID  | (REQUIRED)
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
M:   | EXTENDED PID  | (RECOMMENDED)
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
L:   | TID |U| SID |D| (Conditionally RECOMMENDED)
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                             -\
P,F: | P_DIFF      |N| (Conditionally REQUIRED)    - up to 3 times
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                             -/
V:   | SS            |
     | ..            |
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Flexible Mode Format for VP9 Payload Descriptor

In non-flexible mode (with the F bit below set to zero), the first octets after the RTP header are
the VP9 payload descriptor, with the following structure.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

      0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
     |I|P|L|F|B|E|V|Z| (REQUIRED)
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
I:   |M| PICTURE ID  | (RECOMMENDED)
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
M:   | EXTENDED PID  | (RECOMMENDED)
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
L:   | TID |U| SID |D| (Conditionally RECOMMENDED)
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
     |   TL0PICIDX   | (Conditionally REQUIRED)
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
V:   | SS            |
     | ..            |
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Non-Flexible Mode Format for VP9 Payload Descriptor

Except as noted, the following field descriptions apply to the payload descriptor formats in both
Figures 2 and 3.

I:

P:

L:

F:

Picture ID (PID) present. When set to one, the
 PID
mandatory first octet and specified as below. Otherwise, PID
was set in the stream's most recent start of a keyframe (i.e., the SS field was present) and the
F bit is set to zero (i.e., non-flexible scalability mode is in use), then this bit
every packet.

 be present after the

 be present. If the V bit

 be set on

OPTIONAL

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

Inter-picture predicted frame. When set to zero, the frame does not utilize inter-picture
prediction. In this case, up-switching to a current spatial layer's frame is possible from a
directly lower spatial-layer frame. P
synchronization frame in response to a
Section 5.3). When P is set to zero, the Temporal-layer ID (TID) field (described below)
also be set to zero (if present). Note that the P bit does not forbid intra-picture, inter-layer
prediction from earlier frames of the same picture, if any.

 also be set to zero when encoding a layer

Layer Refresh Request (LRR) [RFC9627]

SHOULD

 message (see

MUST

Layer indices present. When set to one, the one or two octets following the mandatory first
octet and the PID (if present) is as described by "Layer indices" below. If the F bit (described
below) is set to one (indicating flexible mode), then only one octet is present for the layer
indices. Otherwise, if the F bit is set to zero (indicating non-flexible mode), then two octets
are present for the layer indices.

Flexible mode. When set to one, this indicates flexible mode; if the P bit is also set to one,
then the octets following the mandatory first octet, the PID, and layer indices (if present) are
 only be set to one if the I bit is also
as described by "reference indices" below. This bit
set to one; if the I bit is set to zero, then this bit
receivers. (Flexible mode's reference indices are defined as offsets from the Picture ID field,
so they would have no meaning if I were not set.) The value of the F bit
 only change on
the first packet of a key picture. A "key picture" is a picture whose base spatial-layer frame is

 also be set to zero and ignored by

MUST

MUST

MUST

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

a keyframe, and thus one which completely resets the encoder state. This packet will have its
P bit equal to zero, SID or L bit (described below) equal to zero, and B bit (described below)
equal to one.

B:

E:

V:

Z:

Start of Frame. This bit
beginning of a new VP9 frame; otherwise, it
be the first frame of a picture.

MUST

 be set to one if the first payload octet of the RTP packet is the

MUST NOT

 be one. Note that this frame might not

MUST

 be set to one for the final RTP packet of a VP9 frame; otherwise,

End of Frame. This bit
it is zero. This enables a decoder to finish decoding the frame, where it otherwise may need
to wait for the next packet to explicitly know that the frame is complete. Note that, if spatial
scalability is in use, more frames from the same picture may follow; see the description of the
B bit above.

Scalability Structure (SS) data present. When set to one, the
present in the payload descriptor. Otherwise, the SS data

OPTIONAL

 SS data
 be present.

MUST NOT

MUST

 be

Not a reference frame for upper spatial layers. If set to one, indicates that frames with
higher spatial layers SID+1 and greater of the current and following pictures do not depend
on the current spatial-layer SID frame. This enables a decoder that is targeting a higher
spatial layer to know that it can safely discard this packet's frame without processing it,
without having to wait for the D bit in the higher-layer frame (see below).

The mandatory first octet is followed by the extension data fields that are enabled:

M:

The most significant bit of the first octet is an extension flag. The field

MUST

 be present if

the I bit is equal to one. If M is set, the PID field
contain 7 bits. See PID below.

MUST

 contain 15 bits; otherwise, it

MUST

Picture ID (PID):

Picture ID represented in 7 or 15 bits, depending on the M bit. This is a

running index of the pictures, where the sender increments the value by one for each picture
it sends. (Note, however, that because a middlebox can discard pictures where permitted by
the SS, Picture IDs as received by a receiver might not be contiguous.) This field
present if the I bit is equal to one. If M is set to zero, 7 bits carry the PID; else, if M is set to
one, 15 bits carry the PID in network byte order. The sender may choose between a 7- or 15-
bit index. The PID
 wrap after reaching the
maximum ID (0x7f or 0x7fff depending on the index size chosen). The receiver
MUST NOT
assume that the number of bits in the PID stays the same through the session. If this field
transitions from 7 bits to 15 bits, the value is zero-extended (i.e., the value after 0x6e is
0x006f); if the field transitions from 15 bits to 7 bits, it is truncated (i.e., the value after
0x1bbe is 0x3f).

 start on a random number and

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

 be

In the non-flexible mode (when the F bit is set to zero), this PID is used as an index to the PG
specified in the SS data below. In this mode, the PID of the keyframe corresponds to the first
specified frame in the PG. Then subsequent PIDs are mapped to subsequently specified
frames in the PG (modulo N_G, specified in the SS data below), respectively.

All frames of the same picture

MUST

 have the same PID value.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

Frames (and their corresponding pictures) with the VP9 show_frame field equal to zero
have distinct PID values from subsequent pictures with show_frame equal to one. Thus, a
picture (as defined in this specification) is different than a VP9 superframe.

MUST

All frames of the same picture

MUST

 have the same value for show_frame.

Layer indices:

This field is optional but

 whenever encoding with layers. For
RECOMMENDED
both flexible and non-flexible modes, one octet is used to specify a layer frame's Temporal-
layer ID (TID) and Spatial-layer ID (SID) as shown both in Figures 2 and 3. Additionally, a bit
(U) is used to indicate that the current frame is a "switching up point" frame. Another bit (D)
is used to indicate whether inter-layer prediction is used for the current frame.

In the non-flexible mode (when the F bit is set to zero), another octet is used to represent the
Temporal Layer 0 Picture Index (8 bits) (TL0PICIDX), as depicted in Figure 3. The TL0PICIDX is
present so that all minimally required frames (the base temporal-layer frames) can be
tracked.

The TID and SID fields indicate the temporal and spatial layers and can help middleboxes and
endpoints quickly identify which layer a packet belongs to.

TID:

The temporal-layer ID of the current frame. In the case of non-flexible mode, if a PID is

mapped to a picture in a specified PG, then the value of the TID
corresponding TID value of the mapped picture in the PG.

MUST

 match the

U:

Switching up point. When this bit is set to one, if the current picture has a temporal-layer
ID equal to value T, then subsequent pictures with temporal-layer ID values higher than T
will not depend on any picture before the current picture (in decode order) with a
temporal-layer ID value greater than T.

SID:

The spatial-layer ID of the current frame. Note that frames with spatial-layer SID > 0
may be dependent on decoded spatial-layer SID-1 frame within the same picture. Different
frames of the same picture
 have distinct spatial-layer IDs, and frames' spatial layers
MUST

 appear in increasing order within the frame.

MUST

D:

Inter-layer dependency is used. D

 be set to one if and only if the current spatial-
layer SID frame depends on spatial-layer SID-1 frame of the same picture; otherwise, it
 be
MUST
set to zero.

 be set to zero. For the base-layer frame (with SID equal to zero), the D bit

MUST

MUST

TL0PICIDX:

Temporal Layer 0 Picture Index (8 bits). TL0PICIDX is only present in the non-

flexible mode (F = 0). This is a running index for the temporal base-layer pictures, i.e., the
pictures with a TID set to zero. If the TID is larger than zero, TL0PICIDX indicates which
temporal base-layer picture the current picture depends on. TL0PICIDX
incremented by one when the TID is equal to zero. The index
number and

 restart at zero after reaching the maximum number 255.

 be
 start on a random

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

Reference indices:

When P and F are both set to one, indicating a non-keyframe in flexible
 be specified as below. Additional reference

mode, then at least one reference index
indices (a total of up to three reference indices are allowed) may be specified using the N bit
below. When either P or F is set to zero, then no reference index is specified.

MUST

P_DIFF:

The reference index (in 7 bits) specified as the relative PID from the current picture.

For example, when P_DIFF=3 on a packet containing the picture with PID 112 means that
the picture refers back to the picture with PID 109. This calculation is done modulo the
size of the PID field, i.e., either 7 or 15 bits. A P_DIFF value of zero is invalid.

N:

1 if there is additional P_DIFF following the current P_DIFF.

4.2.1.  Scalability Structure (SS)

The SS data describes the resolution of each frame within a picture as well as the inter-picture
dependencies for a PG. If the VP9 payload descriptor's V bit is set, the SS data is present in the
position indicated in Figures 2 and 3.

     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
V:   | N_S |Y|G|-|-|-|
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+              -\
Y:   |     WIDTH     | (OPTIONAL)    .
     +               +               .
     |               | (OPTIONAL)    .
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+               . - N_S + 1 times
     |     HEIGHT    | (OPTIONAL)    .
     +               +               .
     |               | (OPTIONAL)    .
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+              -/
G:   |      N_G      | (OPTIONAL)
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                            -\
N_G: | TID |U| R |-|-| (OPTIONAL)                 .
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+              -\            . - N_G times
     |    P_DIFF     | (OPTIONAL)    . - R times  .
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+              -/            -/

Figure 4: VP9 Scalability Structure

N_S:

Number of Spatial Layers Minus 1. N_S + 1 indicates the number of spatial layers present

in the VP9 stream.

Y:

Each spatial layer's frame resolution is present. When set to one, the
octets) and HEIGHT (2 octets)
MUST NOT

 be present.

MUST

 be present for each layer frame. Otherwise, the resolution

OPTIONAL

 WIDTH (2

G:

The PG description present flag.

-:

A bit reserved for future use. It

MUST

 be set to zero and

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

N_G:

N_G indicates the number of pictures in a PG. If N_G is greater than zero, then the SS data

allows the inter-picture dependency structure of the VP9 stream to be pre-declared, rather
than indicating it on the fly with every packet. If N_G is greater than zero, then for N_G
pictures in the PG, each picture's Temporal-layer ID (TID), switch up point (U), and reference
indices (P_DIFFs) are specified.

The first picture specified in the PG

MUST

 have a TID set to zero.

G set to zero or N_G set to zero indicates that either there is only one temporal layer (for non-
flexible mode) or no fixed inter-picture dependency information is present (for flexible
mode) going forward in the bitstream.

Note that for a given picture, all frames follow the same inter-picture dependency structure.
However, the frame rate of each spatial layer can be different from each other; this can be
described with the use of the D bit described above. The specified dependency structure in
the SS data

 be for the highest frame rate layer.

MUST

R:

The number of P_DIFF fields that are present.

In a scalable stream sent with a fixed pattern, the SS data
 be included in the first packet
of every key frame. This is a packet with the P bit equal to zero, SID or L bit equal to zero, and B
bit equal to one. The SS data
picture specified in the previous SS data's PG (if the previous SS data's N_G was greater than
zero).

 only be changed on the picture that corresponds to the first

SHOULD

MUST

4.3.  Frame Fragmentation

VP9 frames are fragmented into packets in RTP sequence number order: beginning with a packet
with the B bit set and ending with a packet with the E bit set. There is no mechanism for finer-
grained access to parts of a VP9 frame.

4.4.  Scalable Encoding Considerations

In addition to the use of reference frames, VP9 has several additional forms of inter-frame
dependencies, largely involving probability tables for the entropy and tree encoders. In VP9
syntax, the syntax element "error_resilient_mode" resets this additional inter-frame data,
allowing a frame's syntax to be decoded independently.

Due to the requirements of scalable streams, a VP9 encoder producing a scalable stream needs
to ensure that a frame does not depend on a previous frame (of the same or a previous picture)
that can legitimately be removed from the stream. Thus, a frame that follows a frame that might
be removed (in full decode order)

 be encoded with "error_resilient_mode" set to true.

MUST

For spatially scalable streams, this means that "error_resilient_mode" needs to be turned on for
the base spatial layer; however, it can be turned off for higher spatial layers, assuming they are
sent with inter-layer dependency (i.e., with the D bit set). For streams that are only temporally
scalable without spatial scalability, "error_resilient_mode" can additionally be turned off for any
picture that immediately follows a temporal-layer 0 frame.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

4.5.  Example of a VP9 RTP Stream

4.5.1.  Reference Picture Use for Scalable Structure

As discussed in Section 3, the VP9 codec can maintain up to eight reference frames, of which up
to three can be referenced or updated by any new frame. This section illustrates one way that a
scalable structure (with three spatial layers and three temporal layers) can be constructed using
these reference frames.

Temporal

Spatial

References

Updates

0

0

0

2

2

2

1

1

1

2

2

2

0

1

2

0

1

2

0

1

2

0

1

2

0

0,1

1,2

0

1,6

2,7

0

1,3

2,4

3

4,6

5,7

0

1

2

6

7

-

3

4

5

6

7

-

Table 1: Example Scalability Structure

This structure is constructed such that the U bit can always be set.

5.  Feedback Messages and Header Extensions

5.1.  Reference Picture Selection Indication (RPSI)

The RPSI is a payload-specific feedback message defined within the RTCP-based feedback format.
The RPSI message is generated by a receiver and can be used in two ways: either it can signal a
preferred reference picture when a loss has been detected by the decoder (preferably a
reference that the decoder knows is perfect) or it can be used as positive feedback information
to acknowledge correct decoding of certain reference pictures. The positive feedback method is

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

useful for VP9 used for point-to-point (unicast) communication. The use of RPSI for VP9 is
preferably combined with a special update pattern of the codec's two special reference frames --
the golden frame and the altref frame -- in which they are updated in an alternating leapfrog
fashion. When a receiver has received and correctly decoded a golden or altref frame, and that
frame had a Picture ID in the payload descriptor, the receiver can acknowledge this simply by
sending an RPSI message back to the sender. The message body (i.e., the "native RPSI bit string"
in

) is simply the (7- or 15-bit) Picture ID of the received frame.

[RFC4585]

Note: because all frames of the same picture must have the same inter-picture
reference structure, there is no need for a message to specify which frame is being
selected.

5.2.  Full Intra Request (FIR)

Full Intra Request (FIR) [RFC5104]

The
state refresh of an encoded stream.

 RTCP feedback message allows a receiver to request a full

Upon receipt of a FIR request, a VP9 sender
 send a picture with a keyframe for its spatial-
MUST
layer 0 layer frame and then send frames without inter-picture prediction (P=0) for any higher-
layer frames.

5.3.  Layer Refresh Request (LRR)

Layer Refresh Request (LRR) [RFC9627]

The
spatially or temporally encoded stream to be refreshed without necessarily affecting the
stream's other layers.

 allows a receiver to request a single layer of a

            +---------------+---------------+
            |0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|
            +---------------+---------+-----+
            |   RES   | TID | RES     | SID |
            +---------------+---------+-----+

Figure 5: LRR Index Format

Figure 5 shows the format of an LRR's layer index fields for VP9 streams. The two "RES" fields
MUST
TID and SID fields.

 be set to zero on transmission and ignored on reception. See Section 4.2 for details on the

Identification of a layer refresh frame can be derived from the reference IDs of each frame by
backtracking the dependency chain until reaching a point where only decodable frames are
being referenced. Therefore, it's recommended for both the flexible and the non-flexible mode
that, when switching up points are being encoded in response to an LRR, those packets contain
layer indices and the reference field or fields so that the decoder or
middleboxes [RFC7667]

 can make this derivation.

selective forwarding

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

Example:

LRR {1,0}, {2,1} is sent by a Multipoint Control Unit (MCU) when it is currently relaying {1,0} to a
receiver that wants to upgrade to {2,1}. In response, the encoder should encode the next frames
in layers {1,1} and {2,1} by only referring to frames in {1,0} or {0,0}.

In the non-flexible mode, periodic upgrade frames can be defined by the layer structure of the
SS; thus, periodic upgrade frames can be automatically identified by the Picture ID.

6.  Payload Format Parameters

This payload format has three optional parameters: max-fr, max-fs, and profile-id.

The max-fr and max-fs parameters are used to signal the capabilities of a receiver
implementation. If the implementation is willing to receive media, both parameters
provided. These parameters
NOT
signaled. (There may be scenarios, such as pre-encoded media or
middleboxes [RFC7667]
receiver's max-fs and max-fr values; in such scenarios, a sender

 send media with a frame rate or frame size exceeding the max-fr and max-fs values

 be used for any other purpose. A media sender

selective forwarding

, where a media sender does not have media available that fits within a

 be
SHOULD

MUST NOT

 exceed the signaled values.)

MUST

MAY

max-fr:

The value of max-fr is an integer indicating the maximum frame rate in units of frames

per second that the decoder is capable of decoding.

max-fs:

The value of max-fs is an integer indicating the maximum frame size in units of

macroblocks that the decoder is capable of decoding.

The decoder is capable of decoding this frame size as long as the width and height of the
frame in macroblocks are each less than int(sqrt(max-fs * 8)); for instance, a max-fs of 1200
(capable of supporting 640x480 resolution) will support widths and heights up to 1552 pixels
(97 macroblocks).

profile-id:

The value of profile-id is an integer indicating the default coding profile (the subset

of coding tools that may have been used to generate the stream or that the receiver supports).
Table 2 lists all of the profiles defined in Section 7.2 of
corresponding integer values to be used.

[VP9-BITSTREAM]

 and the

If no profile-id is present, Profile 0
relatively late in the development of this specification, so some existing implementations may
not send it.)

 be inferred. (The profile-id parameter was added

MUST

Informative note: See Table 3 for capabilities of coding profiles defined in Section 7.2 of
BITSTREAM]

.

[VP9-

A receiver

MUST

 ignore any parameter unspecified in this specification.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

Profile

profile-id

0

1

2

3

0

1

2

3

Table 2: Correspondence between profile-
id to VP9 Profile Integer

Profile

Bit Depth

SRGB Colorspace

Chroma Subsampling

0

1

2

3

8

8

10 or 12

10 or 12

No

Yes

No

Yes

YUV 4:2:0

YUV 4:2:2,4:4:0 or 4:4:4

YUV 4:2:0

YUV 4:2:2,4:4:0 or 4:4:4

Table 3: Profile Capabilities

Note: SRGB (often sRGB) = Standard Red-Green-Blue

6.1.  SDP Parameters

6.1.1.  Mapping of Media Subtype Parameters to SDP

The media type video/vp9 string is mapped to fields in the Session Description Protocol (SDP)
[RFC8866]

 as follows:

•

The media name in the "m=" line of SDP

MUST

 be video.

•

The encoding name in the "a=rtpmap" line of SDP

MUST

 be VP9 (the media subtype).

•

The clock rate in the "a=rtpmap" line

MUST

 be 90000.

•

The parameters max-fr and max-fs
receiver wishes to declare its receiver capabilities. These parameters are expressed as a
media subtype string in the form of a semicolon-separated list of parameter=value pairs.

 be included in the "a=fmtp" line of SDP if the

MUST

•

OPTIONAL

 parameter profile-id, when present,

The
of SDP. This parameter is expressed as a media subtype string in the form of a
parameter=value pair. When the parameter is not present, a value of 0
MUST
profile-id.

SHOULD

 be included in the "a=fmtp" line

 be inferred for

6.1.1.1.  Example

An example of media representation in SDP is as follows:

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

m=video 49170 RTP/AVPF 98
a=rtpmap:98 VP9/90000
a=fmtp:98 max-fr=30;max-fs=3600;profile-id=0

6.1.2.  Offer/Answer Considerations

When VP9 is offered over RTP using SDP in an Offer/Answer model
unicast usage, the following limitations and rules apply:

[RFC3264]

 for negotiation for

•

The parameter identifying a media format configuration for VP9 is profile-id. This media
format configuration parameter
MUST
either maintain this configuration parameter or remove the media format (payload type)
completely if it is not supported.

 be used symmetrically; that is, the answerer

MUST

•

The max-fr and max-fs parameters are used declaratively to describe receiver capabilities,
even in the Offer/Answer model. The values in an answer are used to describe the
answerer's capabilities; thus, their values are set independently of the values in the offer.

•

SHOULD

[RFC3264]

To simplify the handling and matching of these configurations, the same RTP payload type
 also be used in the answer and in a subsequent offer, as
number used in the offer
 contain the payload type
specified in
number used in the offer unless the profile-id value is exactly the same as in the original
offer. However, max-fr and max-fs parameters
 be changed in subsequent offers and
answers, with the same payload type number, if an endpoint wishes to change its declared
receiver capabilities.

. An answer or subsequent offer

MUST NOT

MAY

7.  Media Type Definition

This registration uses the template defined in

[RFC6838]

 and following

[RFC4855]
.

Type name:

video

Subtype name:

VP9

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

There are three optional parameters: max-fr, max-fs, and profile-id. See

Section 6 for their definition.

Encoding considerations:

Section 4.8 of [RFC6838]

This media type is framed in RTP and contains binary data; see
.

Security considerations:

See Section 8 of RFC 9628.

Interoperability considerations:

None

Published specification:

VP9 bitstream format

[VP9-BITSTREAM]

 and RFC 9628.

Applications that use this media type:

For example, video over IP, video conferencing.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

Fragment identifier considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

None

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Jonathan Lennox

<jonathan.lennox@8x8.com>

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:
transfer via RTP

[RFC3550]

.

This media type depends on RTP framing; hence, it is only defined for

Author:

Jonathan Lennox

 <jonathan.lennox@8x8.com>

Change controller:

IETF AVTCore Working Group delegated from the IETF.

8.  Security Considerations

,

, and in any applicable RTP profile

RTP/AVP [RFC3551] RTP/AVPF [RFC4585] RTP/SAVP [RFC3711]

RTP packets using the payload format defined in this specification are subject to the security
[RFC3550]
considerations discussed in the RTP specification
RTP/SAVPF [RFC5124]
,
.
such as
However, as "Securing the RTP Framework: Why RTP Does Not Mandate a Single Media Security
Solution"
mandate what solutions are used to meet the basic security goals like confidentiality, integrity,
and source authenticity for RTP in general. This responsibility lies with anyone using RTP in an
application. They can find guidance on available security mechanisms in "Options for Securing
RTP Sessions"
mechanisms.

 discusses, it is not an RTP payload format's responsibility to discuss or

 use one or more appropriate strong security

. Applications

[RFC7202]

[RFC7201]

SHOULD

, or

Implementations of this RTP payload format need to take appropriate security considerations
into account. It is extremely important for the decoder to be robust against malicious or
malformed payloads and ensure that they do not cause the decoder to overrun its allocated
memory or otherwise misbehave. An overrun in allocated memory could lead to arbitrary code
execution by an attacker. The same applies to the encoder, even though problems in encoders
are (typically) rarer.

This RTP payload format and its media decoder do not exhibit any significant non-uniformity in
the receiver-side computational complexity for packet processing; thus, they are unlikely to pose
a denial-of-service threat due to the receipt of pathological data. Nor does the RTP payload
format contain any active content.

9.  Congestion Control

Congestion control for RTP
applicable RTP profile, e.g.,
encoding scenario, adapt the transmission rate by instructing the encoder to encode at a certain
target rate. Media-aware network elements

. The congestion control mechanism can, in a real-time

 use the information in the VP9 payload

 be used in accordance with

SHALL
[RFC3551]

, and with any

[RFC3550]

MAY

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

descriptor in Section 4.2 to identify non-reference frames and discard them in order to reduce
network congestion. Note that discarding of non-reference frames cannot be done if the stream
is encrypted (because the non-reference marker is encrypted).

10.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the media type "video/vp9" as specified in Section 7. The media type has also
been added to the "RTP Payload Format Media Types" registry of the "Real-Time Transport
Protocol (RTP) Parameters" registry group (
follows.

https://www.iana.org/assignments/rtp-parameters

) as

video

Media Type:
VP9
Subtype:
Clock Rate (Hz):
Reference:

90000

RFC 9628

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3264]

[RFC3550]

[RFC4585]

[RFC4855]

[RFC5104]

[RFC6838]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Rosenberg, J.
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

H. Schulzrinne "An Offer/Answer Model with Session

, June 2002,

.

,

,

,

,

Schulzrinne, H. Casner, S. Frederick, R.
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
, and
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

,

Ott, J. Wenger, S. Sato, N. Burmeister, C.
J. Rey "Extended RTP Profile for
Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" RFC
4585 DOI 10.17487/RFC4585
,
rfc4585>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2006,

, and

,

,

.

Casner, S. "Media Type Registration of RTP Payload Formats" RFC 4855 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4855>
10.17487/RFC4855
.

, February 2007,

,

,

,

,

Wenger, S. Chandra, U. Westerlund, M.
Messages in the RTP Audio-Visual Profile with Feedback (AVPF)" RFC 5104 DOI
10.17487/RFC5104

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5104>

B. Burman "Codec Control

, February 2008,

, and

,

,

,

.

Freed, N. Klensin, J.
,
Registration Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
,
2013,

T. Hansen "Media Type Specifications and
, and
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

,

.

,

, January

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

[RFC8174]

[RFC8866]

[RFC9627]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

Begen, A. Kyzivat, P. Perkins, C.
,
Protocol" RFC 8866 DOI 10.17487/RFC8866
,
editor.org/info/rfc8866>

, and

,
,

.

M. Handley "SDP: Session Description
<https://www.rfc-

, January 2021,

,

,

Lennox, J. Hong, D. Uberti, J. Holmer, S.
,
Request (LRR) RTCP Feedback Message" RFC 9627 DOI 10.17487/RFC9627
,
March 2025,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9627>

M. Flodman "The Layer Refresh

, and

,

,

.

,

,

[VP9-BITSTREAM]

Grange, A. de Rivaz, P.
,
,

, and

,

J. Hunt "VP9 Bitstream & Decoding Process
<https://storage.googleapis.com/

Specification" Version 0.6
, 31 March 2016,
downloads.webmproject.org/docs/vp9/vp9-bitstream-specification-
v0.6-20160331-draft.pdf>

.

11.2.  Informative References

[RFC3551]

[RFC3711]

[RFC5124]

[RFC6386]

[RFC7201]

[RFC7202]

[RFC7667]

 and

Schulzrinne, H.
with Minimal Control" STD 65 RFC 3551 DOI 10.17487/RFC3551
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3551>
.

S. Casner "RTP Profile for Audio and Video Conferences
, July 2003,

,
,

,

,

Baugher, M. McGrew, D. Naslund, M. Carrara, E.
,
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, and

,
,

,
.

K. Norrman "The Secure
,

, March

 and

E. Carrara "Extended Secure RTP Profile for Real-time Transport

Ott, J.
Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/SAVPF)" RFC 5124 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5124

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5124>

, February 2008,

,

,

,

.

,

Bankoski, J. Koleszar, J. Quillio, L. Salonen, J. Wilkins, P.
, and
Format and Decoding Guide" RFC 6386 DOI 10.17487/RFC6386
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6386>

.

,

,

,

,

Y. Xu "VP8 Data
, November 2011,

Westerlund, M.
DOI 10.17487/RFC7201

C. Perkins "Options for Securing RTP Sessions" RFC 7201
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7201>

, April 2014,

 and

,

,

,

 and

Perkins, C.
Not Mandate a Single Media Security Solution" RFC 7202 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7202

M. Westerlund "Securing the RTP Framework: Why RTP Does
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7202>

, April 2014,

,

,

.

Westerlund, M.
RFC7667

 and
, November 2015,

S. Wenger "RTP Topologies" RFC 7667 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7667>

,

,

,

.

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9628

RTP Payload Format for VP9

March 2025

Acknowledgments

Alex Eleftheriadis Yuki Ito Won Kap Jang Sergio Garcia Murillo Roi Sasson Timothy Terriberry
,
Emircan Uysaler
provided helpful feedback.

,
 commented on the development of this document and

Thomas Volkert

,
, and

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Justin Uberti
OpenAI
1455 3rd St
San Francisco CA 94158
United States of America
Email:

justin@uberti.name

,

Stefan Holmer
Google, Inc.
Kungsbron 2
SE-111 22 Stockholm
Sweden
Email:

holmer@google.com

Magnus Flodman
Google, Inc.
Kungsbron 2
SE-111 22 Stockholm
Sweden
Email:

mflodman@google.com

Danny Hong
Google, Inc.
315 Hudson St.
New York NY 10013
,
United States of America
Email:

dannyhong@google.com

Jonathan Lennox
8x8, Inc. / Jitsi
Jersey City NJ 07302
,
United States of America
Email:

jonathan.lennox@8x8.com

Uberti, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

