Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9698
Standards Track
January 2025
2070-1721
A. Gulbrandsen
ICANN

B. Gondwana
Fastmail

RFC 9698
The JMAPACCESS Extension for IMAP

Abstract

This document defines an IMAP extension to let clients know that the messages in this IMAP
server are also available via the JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP), and how. It is intended
for clients that want to migrate gradually to JMAP or use JMAP extensions within an IMAP client.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9698
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Gulbrandsen & Gondwana

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9698

IMAP JMAPACCESS

January 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Details

4.  The GETJMAPACCESS Command and the JMAPACCESS Response

5.  Examples

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

2

2

3

4

5

6

6

6

6

7

An IMAP server can declare that the messages in its mailstore are also available via JMAP. For
simplicity, only a complete equivalence is supported (the same set of messages are available via
both IMAP and JMAP).

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Details

By advertising the JMAPACCESS capability, the server asserts that if a mailbox or message has a
particular object ID when accessed via either IMAP or JMAP (see
[RFC8620]
same ID.

), then the same mailbox or message is accessible via the other protocol, and it has the

[RFC3501] [RFC9051]
,

, and

The server
 also advertise the OBJECTID extension, defined by
resource that allows access to the same messages is called "the JMAP server" below.

[RFC8474]

MUST

. The JMAP session

Gulbrandsen & Gondwana

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9698

IMAP JMAPACCESS

January 2025

This specification does not affect message lifetime: If a client accesses a message via IMAP and
half a second later via JMAP, then the message may have been deleted between the two accesses.

When the server processes the client's LOGIN/AUTHENTICATE command and enters
Authenticated state, the server considers the way the client authenticated. If the IMAP server can
infer from the client's authentication process that its credentials suffice to authenticate via JMAP,
then the server
 include a JMAPACCESS capability in any capability list sent after that point.
This includes the capability list that some servers send immediately when authentication
succeeds.

MUST

Servers are encouraged to report the same message flags and other data via both protocols, as far
as possible.

This specification does not require mailboxes to have the same name in IMAP and JMAP, even if
they share a mailbox ID. However, the JMAP specification regulates that in the text about the
name and role properties described in

Section 2 of [RFC8620]
.

Note that all JMAP servers support internationalized email addresses (see
[RFC6855]
IMAP server does not or if the IMAP client does not issue ENABLE UTF8=ACCEPT (see
then it is possible that the client will receive accurate address fields via JMAP and downgraded
 for examples). Issuing ENABLE UTF8=ACCEPT is a
fields via IMAP (see
simple way to sidestep the issue.

[RFC6530]

[RFC6857]

[RFC6858]

). If this

 and

),

4.  The GETJMAPACCESS Command and the JMAPACCESS
Response

The GETJMAPACCESS command requests that the server respond with the session URL for the
JMAP server that provides access to the same mail.

If such a JMAP server is known to this server, the server
JMAPACCESS response containing the JMAP server's session resource (a URL) followed by a
tagged OK response.

 respond with an untagged

MUST

If such a JMAP server is not known, the server
MUST NOT

 include JMAPACCESS in the capability list).

MUST

 respond with a tagged BAD response (and

The JMAPACCESS response is followed by a single link to a JMAP session resource.

The formal syntax in

[RFC9051]

 is extended as follows:

command-auth =/ "GETJMAPACCESS"

mailbox-data =/ resp-jmapaccess

resp-jmapaccess = "JMAPACCESS" SP quoted

Gulbrandsen & Gondwana

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9698

IMAP JMAPACCESS

January 2025

The syntax in
well as IMAP4rev2).

[RFC3501]

 is extended similarly (this extension may be used with IMAP4rev1 as

5.  Examples

Lines sent by the client are preceded by C: and lines sent by the server are preceded by S:. Each
example starts with the IMAP banner issued by the server on connection, and generally
abbreviates the capability lists to what's required by the example itself.

Real connections use longer capability lists, much longer AUTHENTICATE arguments and of
course use TLS. However, these examples focus on JMAPACCESS.

Example 1:

A client connects, sees that SASL OAuth

[RFC7628]

 is available, and authenticates in that way.

S: * OK [CAPABILITY IMAP4rev1 AUTH=OAUTHBEARER SASL-IR] example1
C: 1 AUTHENTICATE OAUTHBEARER bixhPXVzZ...QEB

The server processes the command successfully. It knows that the client used OAuth, and that it
and its JMAP alter ego use the same OAuth backend subsystem. Because of that it infers that the
(next) access token is just as usable via JMAP as via IMAP. It includes a JMAPACCESS capability in
its reply (again, real capability lists are much longer):

S: 1 OK [CAPABILITY IMAP4rev1 JMAPACCESS] done
C: 1b GETJMAPACCESS
S: * JMAPACCESS "https://example.com/.well-known/jmap"
S: 1b OK done

SASL OAuth is specified by
more realistic length used in RFC 7628.

[RFC7628]

, and the argument in this example is abbreviated from the

Example 2:

A client connects, sees no SASL method it recognizes, and issues a LOGIN command.

S: * OK [CAPABILITY IMAP4rev2] example2
C: 2 LOGIN "arnt" "trondheim"

The server sees that the password is accepted, knows that it and its JMAP alter ego use the same
password database, and issues a JMAPACCESS capability:

Gulbrandsen & Gondwana

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9698

IMAP JMAPACCESS

January 2025

   S: * OK [CAPABILITY IMAP4rev2 JMAPACCESS] done
   S: 2 OK done
   C: 2b JMAPACCESS
   S: * JMAPACCESS "https://example.com/.well-known/jmap"
   S: 2b OK done

The URL uses the same quoting rules as most other IMAP strings.

Example 3:

A client connects, sees no SASL method it recognizes, and issues a LOGIN command with a
correct password.

S: * OK [CAPABILITY IMAP4rev1 IMAP4rev2] example3
C: 3 LOGIN "arnt" "trondheim"

The server operator has decided to disable password use with JMAP, but allow it for a while with
IMAP to cater to older clients. Therefore, the login succeeds, but there is no JMAPACCESS
capability.

S: 3 OK done

Example 4:

A client connects, sees no SASL method it recognizes, and issues a LOGIN command. Its password
is incorrect.

S: * OK [CAPABILITY IMAP4rev2 AUTH=GSS] example4
C: 4 LOGIN "arnt" "oslo"

The server does not enter Authenticated state, so nothing requires it to mention JMAPACCESS. It
replies curtly:

S: 4 NO done

6.  IANA Considerations

The IANA has added the JMAPACCESS capability to the "Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP)
Capabilities Registry" and listed this document as the reference.

Gulbrandsen & Gondwana

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9698

IMAP JMAPACCESS

January 2025

7.  Security Considerations

JMAPACCESS reveals to authenticated IMAP clients that they would be able to authenticate via
JMAP using the same credentials and that the object IDs match.

One does not normally reveal anything at all about authentication. However, if the client is an
attacker, then the attacker is known to have valid credentials, and
the attacker how to find the revealed URL without the help of this extension. Therefore, it is
believed that this document does not benefit an attacker noticeably, and its value for migration
far outweighs its risk.

Section 2.2 of [RFC8620]

 tells

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3501]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8474]

[RFC9051]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Crispin, M. "INTERNET MESSAGE ACCESS PROTOCOL - VERSION 4rev1" RFC
3501 DOI 10.17487/RFC3501
,
rfc3501>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2003,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Gondwana, B., Ed. "IMAP Extension for Object Identifiers" RFC 8474 DOI
10.17487/RFC8474

,
, September 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8474>

,

,

.

 and

Melnikov, A., Ed.
Version 4rev2" RFC 9051 DOI 10.17487/RFC9051
,
editor.org/info/rfc9051>
.

,

,

B. Leiba, Ed. "Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) -

, August 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

8.2.  Informative References

[RFC6530]

[RFC6855]

Klensin, J.
 and
RFC 6530 DOI 10.17487/RFC6530
,
info/rfc6530>

.

,

Y. Ko "Overview and Framework for Internationalized Email"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2012,

Resnick, P., Ed. Newman, C., Ed.
,
6855 DOI 10.17487/RFC6855
,
rfc6855>

.

, and
, March 2013,

S. Shen, Ed. "IMAP Support for UTF-8" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Gulbrandsen & Gondwana

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9698

IMAP JMAPACCESS

January 2025

[RFC6857]

[RFC6858]

[RFC7628]

[RFC8620]

,

Fujiwara, K. "Post-Delivery Message Downgrading for Internationalized Email
Messages" RFC 6857 DOI 10.17487/RFC6857
,
editor.org/info/rfc6857>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2013,

,

.

Gulbrandsen, A. "Simplified POP and IMAP Downgrading for Internationalized
Email" RFC 6858 DOI 10.17487/RFC6858
editor.org/info/rfc6858>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2013,

,
,

,

.

,

Mills, W. Showalter, T.
Security Layer (SASL) Mechanisms for OAuth" RFC 7628 DOI 10.17487/RFC7628
,
August 2015,

H. Tschofenig "A Set of Simple Authentication and

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7628>

, and

,

,

,

.

Jenkins, N.
,
 and
8620 DOI 10.17487/RFC8620
,
rfc8620>

.

C. Newman "The JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP)" RFC

,

, July 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Authors' Addresses

Arnt Gulbrandsen
ICANN
6 Rond Point Schumann, Bd. 1
1040 Brussels
Belgium
Email:
URI:

https://icann.org/ua

arnt@gulbrandsen.priv.no

Bron Gondwana
Fastmail
Level 2, 114 William St.
Melbourne VIC 3000
Australia
Email:
URI:

https://fastmail.com

brong@fastmailteam.com

Gulbrandsen & Gondwana

Standards Track

Page 7

