Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9603
Standards Track
July 2024
2070-1721
李呈 C. Li Ed.
 (
华为技术有限公司 Huawei Technologies
)

),

 (

P. Kaladharan
RtBrick Inc

S. Sivabalan
Ciena Corporation

M. Koldychev
Ciena Corporation

Y. Zhu
China Telecom

RFC 9603
Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
(PCEP) Extensions for IPv6 Segment Routing

Abstract

Segment Routing (SR) can be used to steer packets through a network using the IPv6 or MPLS
data plane, employing the source routing paradigm.

An SR Path can be derived from a variety of mechanisms, including an IGP Shortest Path Tree
(SPT), explicit configuration, or a Path Computation Element (PCE).

Since SR can be applied to both MPLS and IPv6 data planes, a PCE should be able to compute an
SR Path for both MPLS and IPv6 data planes. The Path Computation Element Communication
Protocol (PCEP) extension and mechanisms to support SR-MPLS have been defined. This
document outlines the necessary extensions to support SR for the IPv6 data plane within PCEP.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9603
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Terminology

3.  Overview of PCEP Operation in SRv6 Networks

3.1.  Operation Overview

3.2.  SRv6-Specific PCEP Message Extensions

4.  Object Formats

4.1.  The OPEN Object

4.1.1.  The SRv6 PCE Capability sub-TLV

4.2.  The RP/SRP Object

4.3.  ERO

4.3.1.  SRv6-ERO Subobject

4.3.1.1.  SID Structure

4.3.1.2.  Order of the Optional Fields

4.4.  RRO

4.4.1.  SRv6-RRO Subobject

5.  Procedures

5.1.  Exchanging the SRv6 Capability

5.2.  ERO Processing

5.2.1.  SRv6 ERO Validation

5.2.2.  Interpreting the SRv6-ERO

5.3.  RRO Processing

6.  Security Considerations

3

4

4

5

6

6

6

6

6

8

8

8

10

11

11

11

12

12

13

13

14

15

15

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

7.  Manageability Considerations

7.1.  Control of Function and Policy

7.2.  Information and Data Models

7.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

7.4.  Verify Correct Operations

7.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

7.6.  Impact on Network Operations

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  PCEP ERO and RRO Subobjects

8.2.  New SRv6-ERO NAI Type Registry

8.3.  New SRv6-ERO Flag Registry

8.4.  LSP-ERROR-CODE TLV

8.5.  PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY Sub-TLV Type Indicators

8.6.  SRv6 PCE Capability Flags

8.7.  New Path Setup Type

8.8.  ERROR Objects

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

15

15

16

16

16

16

16

16

16

17

17

18

18

18

18

19

19

19

21

22

22

23

[RFC8402]

, Segment Routing (SR) architecture allows the source node to steer a

As defined in
packet through a path indicated by an ordered list of instructions, called "segments". A segment
can represent any instruction, topological or service based, and it can have a semantic local to an
SR node or global within an SR domain.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

 describes Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) for

[RFC5440]
communication between a Path Computation Client (PCC) and a PCE or between a pair of PCEs. A
PCE or a PCC operating as a PCE (in a hierarchical PCE environment) computes paths for MPLS
Traffic Engineering Label Switched Paths (MPLS-TE LSPs) based on various constraints and
optimization criteria.

 specifies extensions to PCEP that allow a stateful PCE to compute and recommend
 and defines objects and TLVs for MPLS-TE LSPs.

[RFC8231]
network paths in compliance with
Stateful PCEP extensions provide synchronization of LSP state between a PCC and a PCE or
between a pair of PCEs, delegation of LSP control, reporting of LSP state from a PCC to a PCE, and
controlling the setup and path routing of an LSP from a PCE to a PCC. Stateful PCEP extensions
are intended for an operational model in which LSPs are configured on the PCC, and control over
them is delegated to the PCE.

[RFC4657]

A mechanism to dynamically initiate LSPs on a PCC based on the requests from a stateful PCE or
a controller using stateful PCE is specified in
stateful PCE for computing one or more SR-TE paths taking into account various constraints and
objective functions. Once a path is computed, the stateful PCE can initiate an SR-TE path on a PCC
using PCEP extensions specified in
[RFC8664]
.

 and the SR-specific PCEP extensions specified in

, it is possible to use a

[RFC8664]

[RFC8281]

[RFC8281]

. As per

 specifies PCEP extensions for supporting an SR-TE LSP for the MPLS data plane. This

[RFC8664]
document extends
procedures described in this document, a PCC can request an SRv6 path from either a stateful or
stateless PCE. This specification relies on the PATH-SETUP-TYPE TLV and procedures specified in
[RFC8408]
.

 to support SR for the IPv6 data plane. Additionally, using

[RFC8664]

This specification provides a mechanism for a network controller (acting as a PCE) to instantiate
candidate paths for an SR Policy onto a head-end node (acting as a PCC) using PCEP. For more
information on the SR Policy architecture, see
, which applies to both SR-MPLS and
SRv6.

[RFC9256]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Terminology

This document uses the following terms defined in

[RFC5440]

: PCC, PCE, PCEP, PCEP Peer.

This document uses the following terms defined in

[RFC8051]

: Stateful PCE, Delegation.

Further, the following terms are used in the document:

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

MSD:

Maximum SID Depth

PST:

Path Setup Type

SR:

Segment Routing

SID:

Segment Identifier

SRv6:

Segment Routing over IPv6 data plane

SRH:

IPv6 Segment Routing Header

[RFC8754]

SRv6 path:

IPv6 Segment List (A list of IPv6 SIDs representing a path in IPv6 SR domain in the

context of this document.)

Further, note that the term "LSP" used in the PCEP specifications would be equivalent to an SRv6
path (represented as a list of SRv6 segments) in the context of supporting SRv6 in PCEP.

3.  Overview of PCEP Operation in SRv6 Networks

Basic operations for PCEP speakers are built on

[RFC8664]
.

[RFC8664]

In PCEP messages, route information is carried in the Explicit Route Object (ERO), which consists
of a sequence of subobjects.
 defined a new ERO subobject denoted by "SR-ERO
subobject" that is capable of carrying a SID as well as the identity of the node/adjacency
represented by the SID for SR-MPLS. SR-capable PCEP speakers can generate and/or process such
an ERO subobject. An ERO containing SR-ERO subobjects can be included in the PCEP Path
Computation Reply (PCRep) message defined in
message (PCInitiate) defined in
and PCEP LSP State Report (PCRpt) messages defined in
Reported Route Object (RRO), called "SR-RRO", to represent the SID list that was applied by the
PCC, which is the actual path taken by the LSP in SR-MPLS network.

, as well as in the PCEP LSP Update Request (PCUpd)

, the PCEP LSP Initiate Request

[RFC8231] [RFC8664]
.

 also defines a new

[RFC8281]

[RFC5440]

The SRv6 paths computed by a PCE can be represented as an ordered list of SRv6 segments. This
document defines new subobjects "SRv6-ERO" and "SRv6-RRO" in the ERO and the RRO,
respectively, to carry the SRv6 SID. SRv6-capable PCEP speakers
process these subobjects.

 be able to generate and/or

MUST

When a PCEP session between a PCC and a PCE is established, both PCEP speakers exchange their
capabilities to indicate their ability to support SRv6-specific functionality as described in Section
4.1.1.

In summary, this document defines:

•

a new PCEP capability for SRv6,

•

a new subobject SRv6-ERO in ERO,

•

a new subobject SRv6-RRO in RRO, and

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

•

a new Path Setup type (PST)
TYPE-CAPABILITY TLVs.

[RFC8408]

, carried in the PATH-SETUP-TYPE and PATH-SETUP-

3.1.  Operation Overview

In SR networks, an SR source node
segment list.

[RFC8754]

 steers a packet into an SR Policy resulting in a

When SR leverages the IPv6 data plane (i.e., SRv6), the PCEP procedures and mechanisms are
extended in this document.

This document describes the extension to support SRv6 in PCEP. A PCC or PCE indicates its ability
to support SRv6 during the PCEP session initialization phase via a new SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY
sub-TLV (see details in Section 4.1.1).

3.2.  SRv6-Specific PCEP Message Extensions

[RFC5440]

, a PCEP message consists of a common header followed by a variable-

As defined in
length body made up of mandatory and/or optional objects. This document does not require any
changes in the format of PCReq and PCRep messages specified in
message specified in
PCEP messages pertaining to SRv6
Parameters (RP) or Stateful PCE Request Parameters (SRP) object to clearly identify that SRv6 is
intended.

[RFC5440]
, or PCRpt and PCUpd messages specified in

 include PATH-SETUP-TYPE TLV in the Request

, the PCInitiate
[RFC8231]

. However,

[RFC8281]

MUST

4.  Object Formats

4.1.  The OPEN Object

4.1.1.  The SRv6 PCE Capability sub-TLV

This document defines a new Path Setup Type (PST)

[RFC8408]

 for SRv6, as follows:

PST=3:

Path is set up using SRv6.

A PCEP speaker indicates its support of the function described in this document by sending a
PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV in the OPEN object with this new PST (value 3) included in
the PST list.

This document also defines the SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLV. PCEP speakers use this sub-TLV to
exchange information about their SRv6 capability. If a PCEP speaker includes PST=3 in the PST
list of the PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV, then it
CAPABILITY sub-TLV inside the PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV. For further error handling,
please see Section 5.

 also include the SRv6-PCE-

MUST

The format of the SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLV is shown in Figure 1.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|            Type=27            |            Length             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|            Reserved           |             Flags         |N| |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   MSD-Type    | MSD-Value     |   MSD-Type    | MSD-Value     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//                             ...                             //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   MSD-Type    | MSD-Value     |           Padding             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY Sub-TLV Format

[RFC5440]

. That is, the sub-TLV is composed of 2 octets for the type, 2 octets specifying

The code point for the TLV type is 27, and the format is compliant with the PCEP TLV format
defined in
the length, and a Value field. When set to 27, the Type field identifies the SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY
sub-TLV, and the presence of the sub-TLV indicates the support for the SRv6 paths in PCEP. The
Length field defines the length of the value portion in octets. The sub-TLV is padded to 4-octet
alignment, and padding is not included in the Length field. The (MSD-Type,MSD-Value) pairs are
. The number of (MSD-Type,MSD-Value) pairs can be determined by the Length field of
OPTIONAL
the TLV.

The value is comprised of:

•

Reserved: 2 octets; this field

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmission and ignored on receipt.

•

Flags: 2 octets; one bit is currently assigned in Section 8.6

◦
N bit (bit position 14): A PCC sets this flag bit to 1 to indicate that it is capable of resolving a
Node or Adjacency Identifier (NAI) to an SRv6-SID.
◦
Unassigned bits

 be set to 0 on transmission and ignored on receipt

MUST

•

A pair of (MSD-Type,MSD-Value): Where MSD-Type (1 octet) is as per the IGP MSD Type
registry created by
where MSD-Value (1 octet) is as per

 and populated with SRv6 MSD types as per

[RFC8491]

[RFC8491]

[RFC9352]

.

, and

The SRv6 MSD information advertised via SRv6-PCE-Capability sub-TLV conveys the SRv6
capabilities of the PCEP speaker alone. However, when it comes to the computation of an SR
Policy for the SRv6 data plane, the SRv6 MSD capabilities of the intermediate SRv6 Endpoint node
and the tail-end node also need to be considered to ensure those midpoints are able to correctly
process their segments and for the tail-end to dispose of the SRv6 encapsulation. The SRv6 MSD
capabilities of other nodes might be learned as part of the topology information via the Border
Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS)
PCEP sessions with those nodes.

 or via PCEP if the PCE also happens to have

[RFC9514]

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

It is recommended that the SRv6 MSD information not be included in the SRv6-PCE-Capability
sub-TLV in deployments where the PCE is able to obtain this via IGP/BGP-LS as part of the
topology information.

4.2.  The RP/SRP Object

This document defines a new Path Setup Type (PST=3) for SRv6. In order to indicate that the path
is for SRv6, any RP or SRP object
[RFC8408]
, where PST is set to 3.

 include the PATH-SETUP-TYPE TLV as specified in

MUST

4.3.  ERO

In order to support SRv6, a new "SRv6-ERO" subobject is defined for inclusion in the ERO.

4.3.1.  SRv6-ERO Subobject

An SRv6-ERO subobject is formatted as shown in Figure 2.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|L|   Type=40   |     Length    | NT    |     Flags     |V|T|F|S|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Reserved         |      Endpoint Behavior        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
|                   SRv6 SID (conditional)                      |
|                        (128-bit)                              |
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//                 NAI (variable, conditional)                 //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
|                  SID Structure (conditional)                  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: SRv6-ERO Subobject Format

The fields in the SRv6-ERO subobject are as follows:

•

The "L" flag: Indicates whether the subobject represents a loose hop (see
flag is set to zero, a PCC
subobject. Otherwise, a PCC
SRv6-ERO based on its local policy.

[RFC3209]
 overwrite the SID value present in the SRv6-ERO

 expand or replace one or more SID values in the received

MUST NOT

). If this

MAY

•

Type: Indicates the content of the subobject, i.e., when the field is set to 40, the subobject is
an SRv6-ERO subobject representing an SRv6 SID.

•

Length: Contains the total length of the subobject in octets. The Length
and

 be a multiple of 4. An SRv6-ERO subobject

 be at least 24
MUST
 contain at least one of an SRv6-

MUST

MUST

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

SID or an NAI. The S and F bits in the Flags field indicates whether the SRv6-SID or NAI fields
are absent.

•

NAI Type (NT): Indicates the type and format of the NAI contained in the object body, if any
are present. If the F bit is set to one (see below), then the NT field has no meaning and
MUST
be ignored by the receiver. This document creates a new PCEP SRv6-ERO NAI Types registry
in Section 8.2 and allocates the following values:

MUST NOT

 be included.

◦
If NT value is 0, the NAI
◦
When NT value is 2, the NAI is as per the "IPv6 node ID" format defined in
which specifies an IPv6 address. This is used to identify the owner of the SRv6 Identifier.
This is optional, as the LOC (the locator portion) of the SRv6 SID serves a similar purpose
(when present).
◦
When NT value is 4, the NAI is as per the "IPv6 adjacency" format defined in
which specify a pair of IPv6 addresses. This is used to identify the IPv6 adjacency and used
with the SRv6 Adj-SID.
◦
When NT value is 6, the NAI is as per the "link-local IPv6 addresses" format defined in
[RFC8664]
identify the IPv6 adjacency and used with the SRv6 Adj-SID.

, which specify a pair of (global IPv6 address, interface ID) tuples. It is used to

[RFC8664]
,

[RFC8664]
,

•

Flags: Used to carry additional information pertaining to the SRv6-SID. This document
defines the following flag bits. The other bits
 be
ignored by the receiver. This document creates a new registry SRv6-ERO Flag Field registry
in Section 8.3 and allocates the following values.

 be set to zero by the sender and

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be set to zero.

◦
S: When this bit is set to 1, the SRv6-SID value in the subobject body is absent. In this case,
the PCC is responsible for choosing the SRv6-SID value, e.g., by looking up in the SR-DB
using the NAI that, in this case,
 be present in the subobject. If the S bit is set to 1,
then the F bit
MUST
◦
F: When this bit is set to 1, the NAI value in the subobject body is absent. The F bit
set to 1 if NT=0; otherwise, it
1.
◦
T: When this bit is set to 1, the SID Structure value in the subobject body is present. The T
bit
MUST
when SRv6 SID is included. The SID Structure is defined in Section 4.3.1.1.
◦
V: The "SID verification" bit usage is as per
fails" for a SID, it
Error-value "SID Verification fails" in the LSP object in the PCRpt message to the PCE.

 be set to 0 when the S bit is set to 1. If the T bit is set when the S bit is set, the T bit
 be ignored. Thus, the T bit indicates the presence of an optional 8-byte SID Structure

Section 5.1 of [RFC9256]
. If a PCC "Verification
 report this error by including the LSP-ERROR-CODE TLV with LSP

 be
 both be set to

 be set to zero. The S and F bits

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

•

Reserved:

MUST

 be set to zero while sending and ignored on receipt.

•

Endpoint Behavior: A 16-bit field representing the behavior associated with the SRv6 SIDs.
This information is optional, but providing it is recommended whenever possible. It could be
used for maintainability and diagnostic purposes. If behavior is not known, value "0xFFFF"
as defined in the "SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors" registry is used

[RFC8986]

.

•

SRv6 SID: SRv6 Identifier is a 128-bit value representing the SRv6 segment.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

•

NAI: The NAI associated with the SRv6-SID. The NAI's format depends on the value in the NT
field and is described in

[RFC8664]

.

At least one SRv6-SID or the NAI
included.

MUST

 be included in the SRv6-ERO subobject, and both

MAY

 be

4.3.1.1.  SID Structure

The SID Structure is an optional part of the SR-ERO subobject, as described in Section 4.3.1.

[RFC8986]
 defines an SRv6 SID as consisting of LOC:FUNCT:ARG, where a locator (LOC) is
encoded in the L most significant bits of the SID, followed by F bits of function (FUNCT) and A bits
of arguments (ARG). A locator may be represented as B:N where B is the SRv6 SID locator block
(IPv6 prefix allocated for SRv6 SIDs by the operator) and N is the identifier of the parent node
instantiating the SID called "locator node".

The SID Structure is formatted as shown in Figure 3.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    LB Length  |  LN Length    | Fun. Length   |  Arg. Length  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Reserved                      |   Flags       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: SID Structure Format

Where:

•

LB Length: 1 octet; SRv6 SID Locator Block length in bits

•

LN Length: 1 octet; SRv6 SID Locator Node length in bits

•

Fun. Length: 1 octet; SRv6 SID Function length in bits

•

Arg. Length: 1 octet; SRv6 SID Arguments length in bits

The sum of all four sizes in the SID Structure must be less than or equal to 128 bits. If the sum of
all four sizes advertised in the SID Structure is larger than 128 bits, the corresponding SRv6 SID
 be considered invalid and a PCErr message with Error-Type = 10 ("Reception of an invalid
MUST
object") and Error-value = 37 ("Invalid SRv6 SID Structure") is returned.

•

Reserved:

MUST

 be set to zero while sending and ignored on receipt.

•

Flags: Currently no flags are defined.

•

Unassigned bits must be set to zero while sending and ignored on receipt.

The SRv6 SID Structure provides the detailed encoding information of an SRv6 SID, which is
helpful in the use cases that require the SRv6 SID structure to be known. When a PCEP speaker
receives the SRv6 SID and its structure information, the SRv6 SID can be parsed based on the

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

SRv6 SID Structure and/or possible local policies. The SRv6 SID Structure could be used by the
PCE for ease of operations and monitoring. For example, this information could be used for
validation of SRv6 SIDs being instantiated in the network and checked for conformance with the
SRv6 SID allocation scheme chosen by the operator as described in
the future, PCE might also be utilized to verify and automate the security of the SRv6 domain by
provisioning filtering rules at the domain boundaries as described in
. The
details of these potential applications are outside the scope of this document.

Section 3.2 of [RFC8986]

Section 5 of [RFC8754]

. In

4.3.1.2.  Order of the Optional Fields

The optional elements in the SRv6-ERO subobject, i.e., SRv6 SID, NAI, and the SID Structure,
be encoded in the order as depicted in Figure 2. The presence or absence of each of them is
indicated by the respective flags, i.e., S flag, F flag, and T flag.

MUST

In order to ensure future compatibility, any optional elements added to the SRv6-ERO subobject
in the future must specify their order and request that the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
(IANA) allocate a flag to indicate their presence from the subregistry created in Section 8.3.

4.4.  RRO

In order to support SRv6, a new "SRv6-RRO" subobject is defined for inclusion in the RRO.

4.4.1.  SRv6-RRO Subobject

A PCC reports an SRv6 path to a PCE by sending a PCRpt message, per
message represents the SID list that was applied by the PCC, that is, the actual path taken. The
procedures of
change.

 with respect to the RRO apply equally to this specification without

[RFC8664]

[RFC8231]

. The RRO on this

An RRO contains one or more subobjects called "SRv6-RRO subobjects", whose format is shown in
Figure 4.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type=40     |     Length    |  NT   |     Flags     |V|T|F|S|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Reserved         |      Endpoint Behavior        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
|                      SRv6 SID(optional)                       |
|                           (128-bit)                           |
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//                    NAI (variable)                           //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
|                     SID Structure (optional)                  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: SRv6-RRO Subobject Format

The format of the SRv6-RRO subobject is the same as that of the SRv6-ERO subobject but without
the L flag.

The V flag has no meaning in the SRv6-RRO and is ignored on receipt at the PCE.

The ordering of SRv6-RRO subobjects by PCC in PCRpt message remains as per

[RFC8664]
.

The ordering of optional elements in the SRv6-RRO subobject is the same as described in Section
4.3.1.2.

5.  Procedures

5.1.  Exchanging the SRv6 Capability

A PCC indicates that it is capable of supporting the head-end functions for SRv6 by including the
SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLV in the Open message that it sends to a PCE. A PCE indicates that it
is capable of computing SRv6 paths by including the SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLV in the Open
message that it sends to a PCC.

If a PCEP speaker receives a PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV with a PST list containing PST=3,
but the SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLV is absent, then the PCEP speaker
message with Error-Type = 10 ("Reception of an invalid object") and Error-Value = 34 ("Missing
PCE-SRv6-CAPABILITY sub-TLV") and
receives a PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV with an SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLV, but the
PST list does not contain PST=3, then the PCEP speaker
 ignore the SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY
sub-TLV.

 then close the PCEP session. If a PCEP speaker

 send a PCErr

MUST

MUST

MUST

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

In case the MSD-Type in the SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLV received by the PCE does not
correspond to one of the SRv6 MSD types, the PCE
Type = 1 ("PCEP session establishment failure") and Error-Value = 1 ("reception of an invalid
Open message or a non Open message.")).

 respond with a PCErr message (Error-

MUST

Note that the (MSD-Type,MSD-Value) pair exchanged via the SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLV
indicates the SRv6 SID imposition limit for the sender PCC node only. However, if a PCE learns
these via alternate mechanisms, e.g., routing protocols
, then it ignores the values in
the SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLV. Furthermore, whenever a PCE learns any other SRv6 MSD
types that may be defined in the future via alternate mechanisms, it
MUST
regardless of the values exchanged in the SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLV.

 use those values

[RFC9352]

During path computation, a PCE must consider the MSD information of all the nodes along the
path instead of only the MSD information of the ingress PCC since a packet may be dropped on
any node in a forwarding path because of the SID depth exceeding the MSD of the node. The MSD
capabilities of all SR nodes along the path can be learned as part of the topology information via
IGP/BGP-LS or via PCEP if the PCE also happens to have PCEP sessions with those nodes.

MUST NOT

 send SRv6 paths that exceed the SRv6 MSD capabilities of the PCC. If a PCC
 close the PCEP

A PCE
needs to modify the SRv6 MSD value signaled via the Open message, it
session and re-establish it with the new value. If the PCC receives an SRv6 path that exceeds its
SRv6 MSD capabilities, the PCC
 send a PCErr message with Error-Type = 10 ("Reception of
an invalid object") and Error-value = 40 ("Unsupported number of SRv6-ERO subobjects").

MUST

MUST

The N flag and (MSD-Type,MSD-Value) pair inside the SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLV are
meaningful only in the Open message sent to a PCE. As such, the flags
(MSD-Type,MSD-Value) pair
Open message sent to a PCC. Similarly, a PCC
MUST
pair in a received Open message. If a PCE receives multiple SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLVs in an
Open message, it processes only the first sub-TLV received.

 be present in the SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY sub-TLV in an

 ignore flags and any (MSD-Type,MSD-Value)

 be set to zero and a

MUST NOT

MUST

5.2.  ERO Processing

The processing of ERO remains unchanged in accordance with both

[RFC5440]

 and

[RFC8664]
.

5.2.1.  SRv6 ERO Validation

If a PCC does not support the SRv6 PCE Capability and thus cannot recognize the SRv6-ERO or
SRv6-RRO subobjects, it should respond according to the rules for a malformed object as
described in

[RFC5440]
.

On receiving an SRv6-ERO, a PCC
and the NT field are consistent, as follows:

MUST

 validate that the Length field, the S bit, the F bit, the T bit,

•

If NT=0, the F bit

MUST

 be 1, the S bit

MUST

 be zero, and the Length

MUST

 be 24.

•

If NT=2, the F bit
 be 40.
MUST

MUST

 be zero. If the S bit is 1, the Length

MUST

 be 24; otherwise, the Length

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

•

If NT=4, the F bit
 be 56.
MUST

MUST

 be zero. If the S bit is 1, the Length

MUST

 be 40; otherwise, the Length

•

If NT=6, the F bit
 be 64.
MUST

MUST

 be zero. If the S bit is 1, the Length

MUST

 be 48; otherwise, the Length

•

If the T bit is 1, then the S bit

MUST

 be zero.

If a PCC finds that the NT field, Length field, S bit, F bit, and T bit are not consistent, it
 send a PCErr message with Error-Type = 10
consider the entire ERO invalid and
MUST
("Reception of an invalid object") and Error-value = 11 ("Malformed object").

MUST

If a PCC does not recognize or support the value in the NT field, it
invalid and send a PCErr message with Error-Type = 10 ("Reception of an invalid object") and
Error-value = 41 ("Unsupported NAI Type in the SRv6-ERO/SRv6-RRO subobject").

 consider the entire ERO

MUST

If a PCC receives an SRv6-ERO subobject in which the S and F bits are both set to 1 (that is, both
 consider the entire ERO invalid and send a PCErr message
the SID and NAI are absent), it
with Error-Type = 10 ("Reception of an invalid object") and Error-value = 42 ("Both SID and NAI
are absent in the SRv6-ERO subobject").

MUST

If a PCC receives an SRv6-ERO subobject in which the S bit is set to 1 and the F bit is set to zero
(that is, the SID is absent and the NAI is present), but the PCC does not support NAI resolution, it
 consider the entire ERO invalid and send a PCErr message with Error-Type = 4 ("Not
MUST
supported object") and Error-value = 4 ("Unsupported parameter").

If a PCC detects that the subobjects of an ERO are a mixture of SRv6-ERO subobjects and
subobjects of other types, then it
an invalid object") and Error-value = 43 ("ERO mixes SRv6-ERO subobjects with other subobject
types").

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type = 10 ("Reception of

MUST

In case a PCEP speaker receives an SRv6-ERO subobject, when the PST is not set to 3 or SRv6-PCE-
CAPABILITY sub-TLV was not exchanged, it
("Invalid Operation") and Error-value = 19 ("Attempted SRv6 when the capability was not
advertised").

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type = 19

MUST

If a PCC receives an SRv6 path that exceeds the SRv6 MSD capabilities, it
message with Error-Type = 10 ("Reception of an invalid object") and Error-value = 40
("Unsupported number of SRv6-ERO subobjects") as per

[RFC8664]
.

MUST

 send a PCErr

5.2.2.  Interpreting the SRv6-ERO

The SRv6-ERO contains a sequence of subobjects. According to
subobject in the sequence identifies a segment that the traffic will be directed to, in the order
given. That is, the first subobject identifies the first segment the traffic will be directed to, the
second SRv6-ERO subobject represents the second segment, and so on.

, each SRv6-ERO

[RFC9256]

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

5.3.  RRO Processing

The syntax-checking rules that apply to the SRv6-RRO subobject are identical to those of the
SRv6-ERO subobject, except as noted below.

 consider the entire RRO invalid and send a PCErr message with Error-Type = 10

If a PCEP speaker receives an SRv6-RRO subobject in which both SRv6 SID and NAI are absent, it
MUST
("Reception of an invalid object") and Error-value = 35 ("Both SID and NAI are absent in SRv6-
RRO subobject").

If a PCE detects that the subobjects of an RRO are a mixture of SRv6-RRO subobjects and
subobjects of other types, then it
an invalid object") and Error-value = 36 ("RRO mixes SRv6-RRO subobjects with other subobject
types").

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type = 10 ("Reception of

MUST

The mechanism by which the PCC learns the path is outside the scope of this document.

6.  Security Considerations

The Security Considerations described in
[RFC8281] [RFC8253]
,

[RFC8664]

, and

 are applicable to this specification.

[RFC5440] Section 2.5 of [RFC6952] [RFC8231]

,

,

,

, and

[RFC8281]

Note that this specification enables a network controller to instantiate an SRv6 path in the
network. This creates an additional vulnerability if the security mechanisms of
[RFC5440]
,
[RFC8231]
 are not used. If there is no integrity protection on the session, then an
attacker could create an SRv6 path that may not be subjected to the further verification checks.
Further, the MSD field in the Open message could disclose node forwarding capabilities if
suitable security mechanisms are not in place. Hence, securing the PCEP session using Transport
Layer Security (TLS)

.
RECOMMENDED

[RFC8253]

 is

7.  Manageability Considerations

All manageability requirements and considerations listed in
and
requirements and considerations listed in this section apply.

[RFC8664]

 apply to PCEP protocol extensions defined in this document. In addition,

[RFC5440] [RFC8231] [RFC8281]
,

,

,

7.1.  Control of Function and Policy

A PCEP implementation
policy to accept NAI only for the SRv6

SHOULD

SHOULD

 be allowed to be set.

 allow the operator to configure the SRv6 capability. Further, a

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

7.2.  Information and Data Models

The PCEP YANG module is out of the scope of this document; it is defined in other documents, for
example,
YANG]
paths set in the network.

[PCEP-SRv6-
 that allows for SRv6 capability and MSD configurations as well as to monitor the SRv6

. An augmented YANG module for SRv6 is also specified in

[PCEP-YANG]

7.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

Mechanisms defined in this document do not imply any new liveness detection and monitoring
requirements in addition to those already listed in

[RFC5440]
.

7.4.  Verify Correct Operations

Verification of the mechanisms defined in this document can be built on those already listed in
[RFC5440] [RFC8231]
,

[RFC8664]
.

, and

7.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

Mechanisms defined in this document do not imply any new requirements on other protocols.

7.6.  Impact on Network Operations

Mechanisms defined in
defined in this document.

[RFC5440] [RFC8231]
,

, and

[RFC8664]

 also apply to PCEP extensions

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  PCEP ERO and RRO Subobjects

This document defines a new subobject type for the PCEP Explicit Route Object (ERO) and a new
subobject type for the PCEP Reported Route Object (RRO). These have been registered in the
"Resource Reservation Protocol (RSVP) Parameters" registry group as shown below.

IANA has allocated the following new subobject in the "Subobject type - 20 EXPLICIT_ROUTE -
Type 1 Explicit Route" registry:

Value

Description

40

SRv6-ERO (PCEP-specific)

Table 1

IANA has allocated the following new subobject in the "Subobject type - 21 ROUTE_RECORD -
Type 1 Route Record" registry:

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

Value

Description

40

SRv6-RRO (PCEP-specific)

Table 2

8.2.  New SRv6-ERO NAI Type Registry

IANA has created the "PCEP SRv6-ERO NAI Types" registry within the "Path Computation Element
Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry group to manage the 4-bit NT field in the SRv6-ERO subobject.
The registration policy is IETF Review

. IANA has registered the values in Table 3.

[RFC8126]

Value Description

NAI is absent.

NAI is an IPv6 node ID.

0

2

4

6

Table 3

NAI is an IPv6 adjacency with global IPv6 addresses.

RFC 9603

NAI is an IPv6 adjacency with link-local IPv6 addresses.

RFC 9603

Reference

RFC 9603

RFC 9603

8.3.  New SRv6-ERO Flag Registry

IANA has created the "SRv6-ERO Flag Field" registry within the "Path Computation Element
Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry group to manage the 12-bit Flag field of the SRv6-ERO
subobject. New values are to be assigned by Standards Action
should include the following information:

. Each registration

[RFC8126]

•

Bit (counting from bit 0 as the most significant bit)

•

Description

•

Reference

The following values are defined in this document:

Bit Description

Reference

SID Verification (V)

RFC 9603

SID Structure is present (T)

RFC 9603

NAI is absent (F)

SID is absent (S)

RFC 9603

RFC 9603

8

9

10

11

Table 4

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

8.4.  LSP-ERROR-CODE TLV

This document defines a new value in "LSP-ERROR-CODE TLV Error Code Field" registry within
the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry group.

Value Meaning

Reference

10

SID Verification fails

RFC 9603

Table 5

8.5.  PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY Sub-TLV Type Indicators

IANA maintains the "PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY Sub-TLV Type Indicators" registry within
the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry group to manage the type
indicator space for sub-TLVs of the PATH-SETUP-TYPE-CAPABILITY TLV. IANA has registered the
following value:

Value Meaning

Reference

27

SRv6-PCE-CAPABILITY

RFC 9603

Table 6

8.6.  SRv6 PCE Capability Flags

IANA has created the "SRv6 Capability Flag Field" registry within the "Path Computation Element
Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry group to manage the 16-bit Flag field of the SRv6-PCE-
CAPABILITY sub-TLV. New values are to be assigned by Standards Action
. Each
registration should include the following information:

[RFC8126]

•

Bit (counting from bit 0 as the most significant bit)

•

Description

•

Reference

The following value is defined in this document.

Bit Description

Reference

14

Node or Adjacency Identifier (NAI) is supported (N)

RFC 9603

Table 7

8.7.  New Path Setup Type

[RFC8408]
Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry group. IANA has allocated the following value:

 created the "PCEP Path Setup Types" registry within the "Path Computation Element

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

Value Description

Reference

3

Traffic engineering path is set up using SRv6.

RFC 9603

Table 8

8.8.  ERROR Objects

IANA has allocated the following Error-values in the "PCEP-ERROR Object Error Types and
Values" registry within the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry group:

Error-
Type

10

Meaning

Error-value

Reception of an invalid
object

34: Missing PCE-SRv6-CAPABILITY sub-TLV

35: Both SID and NAI are absent in SRv6-RRO
subobject

36: RRO mixes SRv6-RRO subobjects with other
subobject types

37: Invalid SRv6 SID Structure

40: Unsupported number of SRv6-ERO subobjects

41: Unsupported NAI Type in the SRv6-ERO/SRv6-
RRO subobject

42: Both SID and NAI are absent in the SRv6-ERO
subobject

43: ERO mixes SRv6-ERO subobjects with other
subobject types

19

Invalid Operation

19: Attempted SRv6 when the capability was not
advertised

Table 9

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC3209]

,

G. Swallow "RSVP-TE:
Awduche, D. Berger, L. Gan, D. Li, T. Srinivasan, V.
,
Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels" RFC 3209 DOI 10.17487/RFC3209
December 2001,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3209>

, and

.

,

,

,

,

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

[RFC5440]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8281]

[RFC8408]

[RFC8491]

[RFC8253]

[RFC8664]

[RFC8986]

[RFC9514]

[RFC2119]

 and

Vasseur, JP., Ed.
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)

,

,

.

, March 2009,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

R. Varga "Path Computation Element

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Sivabalan, S.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://

,

Sivabalan, S. Tantsura, J. Minei, I. Varga, R.
Setup Type in PCE Communication Protocol (PCEP) Messages" RFC 8408 DOI
10.17487/RFC8408

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8408>

J. Hardwick "Conveying Path

, July 2018,

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

,

Tantsura, J. Chunduri, U. Aldrin, S.
, and
Depth (MSD) Using IS-IS" RFC 8491 DOI 10.17487/RFC8491
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8491>

,
,

,

.

L. Ginsberg "Signaling Maximum SID

, November 2018,

,

Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Wu, Q.
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to

, October 2017,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Sivabalan, S. Filsfils, C. Tantsura, J. Henderickx, W.
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Segment
Routing" RFC 8664 DOI 10.17487/RFC8664
editor.org/info/rfc8664>

J. Hardwick "Path

, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Camarillo, P., Ed. Leddy, J. Voyer, D. Matsushima, S.
"Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) Network Programming" RFC 8986 DOI
10.17487/RFC8986

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8986>

, February 2021,

, and
,

Z. Li

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Dawra, G. Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Chen, M. Bernier, D.
,
,
"Border Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS) Extensions for Segment Routing
over IPv6 (SRv6)" RFC 9514 DOI 10.17487/RFC9514
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9514>

, December 2023,

B. Decraene

<https://

, and

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

[RFC8174]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

.

,

,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC4657]

[RFC6952]

[RFC8051]

[RFC8402]

[RFC8754]

[RFC9256]

[RFC9352]

[PCEP-YANG]

 and

J.L. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)

Ash, J., Ed.
Communication Protocol Generic Requirements" RFC 4657 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4657

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4657>

, September 2006,

,

,

,

.

,

Jethanandani, M. Patel, K.
L. Zheng "Analysis of BGP, LDP, PCEP, and MSDP
,
Issues According to the Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (KARP)
Design Guide" RFC 6952 DOI 10.17487/RFC6952
,
editor.org/info/rfc6952>
.

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2013,

, and

,

 and
Zhang, X., Ed.
Element (PCE)" RFC 8051 DOI 10.17487/RFC8051
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8051>

,

.

I. Minei, Ed. "Applicability of a Stateful Path Computation

,

, January 2017,

<https://

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

,

.

, and

R.
, July

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Dukes, D., Ed. Previdi, S. Leddy, J. Matsushima, S.
"IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)" RFC 8754 DOI 10.17487/RFC8754
2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8754>

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

D. Voyer
,
, March

,

Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Voyer, D. Bogdanov, A.
Routing Policy Architecture" RFC 9256 DOI 10.17487/RFC9256
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9256>

, and

,
,

,
,

.

P. Mattes "Segment
,
, July 2022,

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Filsfils, C. Bashandy, A. Decraene, B.
,
,
to Support Segment Routing over the IPv6 Data Plane" RFC 9352 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9352

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9352>

Z. Hu "IS-IS Extensions

, February 2023,

, and
,

,

.

,

,

Dhody, D., Ed. Beeram, V. Hardwick, J.
J. Tantsura "A YANG Data Model for
Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in Progress
,
,
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-25
, 21 May 2024,
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-25>

<https://
.

, and

,

[PCEP-SRv6-YANG]

,

,

,

Li, C. Sivabalan, S. Peng, S. Koldychev, M.

L. Ndifor "A YANG Data
Model for Segment Routing (SR) Policy and SR in IPv6 (SRv6) support in Path
Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in Progress
,
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-srv6-yang-05
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-srv6-yang-05>

, 18 March 2024,
.

<https://

, and

,

,

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

Acknowledgements

Jeff Tantsura Adrian Farrel Aijun Wang Khasanov Boris Ketan
The authors would like to thank
Talaulikar Martin Vigoureux Hariharan Ananthakrishnan Xinyue Zhang John Scudder Julien
Meuric

 for valuable suggestions.

Robert Varga

,
, and

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

Thanks to
comments during the IESG review.

Gunter Van de Velde Éric Vyncke Jim Guichard

,

,

, and

Mahesh Jethanandani

 for their

Contributors

Mahendra Singh Negi
RtBrick Inc
Bangalore
Karnataka
India
Email:

mahend.ietf@gmail.com

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei
India
Email:

dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

Huang Wumin
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Building, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

huangwumin@huawei.com

Shuping Peng
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Building, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

pengshuping@huawei.com

Ran Chen
ZTE Corporation
China
Email:

chen.ran@zte.com.cn

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9603

PCEP SRv6

July 2024

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Cheng Li (
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Campus, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

c.l@huawei.com

Additional contact information:

editor
)

李呈 (
中国
100095
北京
华为北研所
华为技术有限公司

Prejeeth Kaladharan
RtBrick Inc
Bangalore
Karnataka
India
Email:

prejeeth@rtbrick.com

Siva Sivabalan
Ciena Corporation
Email:

msiva282@gmail.com

Mike Koldychev
Ciena Corporation
Canada
Email:

mkoldych@ciena.com

Yongqing Zhu
China Telecom
109 West Zhongshan Ave, Tianhe District
Bangalore
Guangzhou
China
Email:

zhuyq8@chinatelecom.cn

,

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

