Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9336
Standards Track
December 2022
2070-1721
T. Ito
SECOM CO., LTD.

T. Okubo
DigiCert, Inc.

S. Turner
sn3rd

RFC 9336
X.509 Certificate General-Purpose Extended Key
Usage (EKU) for Document Signing

Abstract

RFC 5280 specifies several extended key purpose identifiers (KeyPurposeIds) for X.509
certificates. This document defines a general-purpose Document-Signing KeyPurposeId for
inclusion in the Extended Key Usage (EKU) extension of X.509 public key certificates. Document-
Signing applications may require that the EKU extension be present and that a Document-Signing
KeyPurposeId be indicated in order for the certificate to be acceptable to that Document-Signing
application.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9336
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Ito, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9336

EKU for Document Signing

December 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

3.  Extended Key Purpose for Document Signing

3.1.  Including the Extended Key Purpose for Document Signing in Certificates

4.  Using the Extended Key Purpose for Document Signing in a Certificate

5.  Implications for a Certification Authority

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 specifies several extended key purpose identifiers (KeyPurposeIds) for X.509

[RFC5280]
certificates. In addition, the IANA repository "SMI Security for PKIX Extended Key Purpose"
[RFC7299]
 includes a number of KeyPurposeIds. While usage of the anyExtendedKeyUsage
KeyPurposeId is bad practice for publicly trusted certificates, there is no public and general
KeyPurposeId explicitly assigned for Document Signing. The current practice is to use id-kp-
emailProtection, id-kp-codeSigning, or a vendor-defined KeyPurposeId for general Document-
Signing purposes.

In circumstances where code signing and S/MIME certificates are also used for Document
Signing, technical or policy changes made to the code signing and S/MIME ecosystem may cause
unexpected behaviors or have an adverse impact such as decreased cryptographic agility on the
Document-Signing ecosystem and vice versa.

Ito, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9336

EKU for Document Signing

December 2022

Vendor-defined KeyPurposeIds that are used in a PKI governed by the vendor or a group of
vendors pose no interoperability concern. Appropriating, or misappropriating as the case may
be, KeyPurposeIDs for use outside of their originally intended vendor or group of vendors
controlled environment can introduce problems, the impact of which is difficult to determine.

Therefore, it is not favorable to use a vendor-defined KeyPurposeId for signing a document that
is not governed by the vendor.

This document defines an extended key purpose identifier for Document Signing.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Extended Key Purpose for Document Signing

This specification defines the KeyPurposeId id-kp-documentSigning.

[RFC5280]

 only be used for one of the purposes indicated."

As described in
MUST
[key] purposes are indicated the application need not recognize all purposes indicated, as long as
the intended purpose is present."

, "[i]f the [Extended Key Usage] extension is present, then the certificate

 also notes that "[i]f multiple

[RFC5280]

 require that the EKU extension be present and that the id-
Document-Signing applications
kp-documentSigning be indicated in order for the certificate to be acceptable to that Document-
Signing application.

MAY

The term "Document Signing" in this document refers to digitally signing contents that are
consumed by people. To be more precise, contents are intended to be shown to a person in a
printable or displayable form by means of services or software, rather than processed by
machines.

3.1.  Including the Extended Key Purpose for Document Signing in
Certificates

 specifies the EKU X.509 certificate extension for use on the Internet. The extension

[RFC5280]
indicates one or more purposes for which the certified public key is valid. The EKU extension can
be used in conjunction with the key usage extension, which indicates the set of basic
cryptographic operations for which the certified key may be used.

The EKU extension syntax is repeated here for convenience:

Ito, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9336

EKU for Document Signing

December 2022

  ExtKeyUsageSyntax  ::=  SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF KeyPurposeId

  KeyPurposeId  ::=  OBJECT IDENTIFIER

As described in
critical or non-critical.

[RFC5280]

, the EKU extension may, at the option of the certificate issuer, be either

This specification defines the KeyPurposeId id-kp-documentSigning. Inclusion of this
KeyPurposeId in a certificate indicates that the public key encoded in the certificate has been
certified to be used for cryptographic operations on contents that are consumed by people.

  id-kp  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=
      { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
        security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) 3 }

  id-kp-documentSigning  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=  { id-kp 36 }

4.  Using the Extended Key Purpose for Document Signing in a
Certificate

Our intended use case is people consuming the contents of signed documents. To be more
precise, contents are intended to be shown to a person in a printable or displayable form by
means of services or software, rather than processed by machines. The digital signature on the
contents is to indicate to the recipient of the contents that the content has not changed since it
was signed by the identity indicated as the subject of the certificate. To validate the digital
signature that is signed on contents intended to be consumed by people, implementations
perform the steps below during certificate validation.

MAY

The following procedure is used to examine the KeyPurposeId(s) included in the EKU extension.
Restrictions on EKU is derived and implemented from (or configured with) the policy to which
the implementation conforms.

•

If there are no restrictions set for the relying party and the relying party software, the
certificate is acceptable.

•

If there are restrictions set for the relying party and relying party software, then process the
KeyPurposeId(s) as described below.

This procedure is intended to permit or prohibit the presence of a certain KeyPurposeId or
the complete absence of KeyPurposeIds. It is outside the scope of this document, but the
relying party can permit or prohibit combinations of KeyPurposeIds, instead of a single
KeyPurposeId. A consideration on prohibiting combinations of KeyPurposeIds is described in
the Security Considerations section of this document. If both Excluded KeyPurposeId and
Permitted KeyPurposeId exist, the relying party or the relying party software processes each
restriction on Excluded KeyPurposeId first and then processes each restriction on Permitted
KeyPurposeId.

Ito, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9336

EKU for Document Signing

December 2022

Excluded KeyPurposeId procedure:

Excluded KeyPurposeId is a KeyPurposeId that the relying party or the relying party
software prohibits. Examples of Excluded KeyPurposeId include the presence of the
anyExtendedKeyUsage KeyPurposeId or the complete absence of the EKU extension in a
certificate. If a KeyPurposeId of the certificate meets the conditions set by the Excluded
KeyPurposeId restriction, the relying party or the relying party software rejects the
certificate.

Permitted KeyPurposeId procedure:

Permitted KeyPurposeId is a KeyPurposeId that the relying party or the relying party
software accepts. Examples of Permitted KeyPurposeId include the presence of this
general-purpose Document-Signing KeyPurposeId and/or the protocol-specific
KeyPurposeIds that are relevant to Document Signing. If a KeyPurposeId of the certificate
meets the condition set by a Permitted KeyPurposeId restriction, the certificate is
acceptable. Otherwise, the relying party or the relying party software rejects the
certificate.

When a single application has the capability to process various data formats, the software may
choose to make the excluded and permitted decisions separately in accordance with the format it
is handling (e.g., TEXT and PDF).

5.  Implications for a Certification Authority

The procedures and practices employed by a certification authority
 ensure that the correct
values for the EKU extension are inserted in each certificate that is issued. Unless certificates are
governed by a vendor-specific PKI, certificates that indicate usage for Document Signing
include the id-kp-documentSigning KeyPurposeId. The inclusion of the id-kp-documentSigning
KeyPurposeId does not preclude the inclusion of other KeyPurposeIds.

MUST

MAY

6.  Security Considerations

The usage of the id-kp-documentSigning KeyPurposeId is to provide an alternative to id-kp-
emailProtection being used for non-email purposes and id-kp-codeSigning being used to sign
objects other than binary code. This extended key purpose does not introduce new security risks
but instead reduces existing security risks by providing means to separate other extended key
purposes used for communication protocols, which include TLS (id-kp-clientAuth) and S/MIME
(id-kp-emailProtection), in order to minimize the risk of cross-protocol attacks.

To reduce the risk of specific cross-protocol attacks, the relying party or the relying party
software may additionally prohibit use of specific combinations of KeyPurposeIds.

While a specific protocol or signing scheme may choose to come up with their own
KeyPurposeIds, some may not have significant motive or resources to set up and manage their
own KeyPurposeIds. This general-purpose Document-Signing KeyPurposeId may be used as a

Ito, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9336

EKU for Document Signing

December 2022

stop-gap for those that intend to define their own Document-Signing KeyPurposeId or those who
do not intend to set up a KeyPurposeId but still would like to distinguish Document Signing from
other usages.

Introduction of this id-kp-documentSigning KeyPurposeId does not introduce any new security
or privacy concerns.

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following OID in the "SMI Security for PKIX Extended Key Purpose"
registry (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3). This OID is defined in Section 3.1.

Decimal Description

References

36

id-kp-documentSigning

RFC 9336

Table 1

IANA has also registered the following ASN.1
Module Identifier" registry (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.0). This OID is defined in Appendix A.

[X.680]

 module OID in the "SMI Security for PKIX

Decimal Description

References

104

id-mod-docsign-eku

RFC 9336

Table 2

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC8174]

[X.680]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information technology - Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):
Specification of basic notation" ITU-T Recommendation X.680
,

, February 2021.

8.2.  Informative References

Ito, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9336

EKU for Document Signing

December 2022

[RFC7299]

Housley, R. "Object Identifier Registry for the PKIX Working Group" RFC 7299
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC7299

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7299>

, July 2014,

.

,

,

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

The following ASN.1
KeyPurposeId.

[X.680]

 module provides the complete definition of the Document-Signing

  DocSignEKU { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
    security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
    id-mod-docsign-eku(104) }

  DEFINITIONS EXPLICIT TAGS ::=

  BEGIN

  -- EXPORTS ALL --

  -- IMPORTS NOTHING --

  -- OID Arc --

  id-kp  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::= {
    iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
    security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) kp(3) }

  -- Document-Signing Extended Key Usage --

  id-kp-documentSigning OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-kp 36 }

  END

Acknowledgments

Russ Housley
We would like to thank
,
to thank
comments.

Corey Bonnell Wendy Brown Russ Housley Prachi Jain

 for verifying the ASN.1 module. Additionally, we would like
 for their
, and

Stefan Santesson

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Tadahiko Ito
SECOM CO., LTD.
Email:

 tadahiko.ito.public@gmail.com

Tomofumi Okubo
DigiCert, Inc.
Email:

 tomofumi.okubo+ietf@gmail.com

Ito, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9336

EKU for Document Signing

December 2022

Sean Turner
sn3rd
Email:

 sean@sn3rd.com

Ito, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

