Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9115
Standards Track
September 2021
2070-1721
Y. Sheﬀer
Intuit

D. López
Telefonica I+D

A. Pastor Perales
Telefonica I+D

T. Fossati
ARM

RFC 9115
An Automatic Certiﬁcate Management Environment
(ACME) Proﬁle for Generating Delegated Certiﬁcates

Abstract

This document deﬁnes a proﬁle of the Automatic Certiﬁcate Management Environment (ACME)
protocol by which the holder of an identiﬁer (e.g., a domain name) can allow a third party to
obtain an X.509 certiﬁcate such that the certiﬁcate subject is the delegated identiﬁer while the
certiﬁed public key corresponds to a private key controlled by the third party. A primary use case
is that of a Content Delivery Network (CDN), the third party, terminating TLS sessions on behalf
of a content provider (the holder of a domain name). The presented mechanism allows the
holder of the identiﬁer to retain control over the delegation and revoke it at any time.
Importantly, this mechanism does not require any modiﬁcation to the deployed TLS clients and
servers.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9115

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

1.2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.  Protocol Flow

2.1.  Preconditions

2.2.  Overview

2.3.  Delegated Identity Proﬁle

2.3.1.  Delegation Conﬁguration

2.3.2.  Order Object Transmitted from NDC to IdO and to ACME Server (STAR)

2.3.3.  Order Object Transmitted from NDC to IdO and to ACME Server (Non-STAR)

2.3.4.  Capability Discovery

2.3.5.  Negotiating an Unauthenticated GET

2.3.6.  Terminating the Delegation

2.4.  Proxy Behavior

3.  CA Behavior

4.  CSR Template

4.1.  Template Syntax

4.2.  Example

5.  Further Use Cases

5.1.  CDN Interconnection (CDNI)

5.1.1.  Multiple Parallel Delegates

5.1.2.  Chained Delegation

5.2.  Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR)

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  New Fields in the "meta" Object within a Directory Object

6.2.  New Fields in the Order Object

6.3.  New Fields in the Account Object

6.4.  New Error Types

6.5.  CSR Template Extensions

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Trust Model

7.2.  Delegation Security Goal

7.3.  New ACME Channels

7.4.  Restricting CDNs to the Delegation Mechanism

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  CSR Template: CDDL

Appendix B.  CSR Template: JSON Schema

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document is related to
, in that some important use cases require both documents
to be implemented. To avoid duplication, we give here a bare-bones description of the motivation
for this solution. For more details, please refer to the introductory sections of

[RFC8739]

[RFC8739]

.

An Identiﬁer Owner (IdO) has agreements in place with one or more Name Delegation Consumer
(NDC) to use and attest its identity.

In the primary use case, the IdO is a content provider, and we consider a Content Delivery
Network (CDN) provider contracted to serve the content over HTTPS. The CDN terminates the
HTTPS connection at one of its edge cache servers and needs to present its clients (browsers,
mobile apps, set-top boxes) a certiﬁcate whose name matches the domain name of the URL that is

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

requested, i.e., that of the IdO. Understandably, some IdOs may balk at sharing their long-term
private keys with another organization; equally, delegates would rather not have to handle other
parties' long-term secrets. Other relevant use cases are discussed in Section 5.

[RFC8555]

 that allows the NDC to request

) to request issuance of a Short-Term, Automatically Renewed (STAR) certiﬁcate for the

This document describes a proﬁle of the ACME protocol
from the IdO, acting as a proﬁled ACME server, a certiﬁcate for a delegated identity -- i.e., one
belonging to the IdO. The IdO then uses the ACME protocol (with the extensions described in
[RFC8739]
same delegated identity. The generated short-term certiﬁcate is automatically renewed by the
ACME Certiﬁcation Authority (CA), is periodically fetched by the NDC, and is used to terminate
HTTPS connections in lieu of the IdO. The IdO can end the delegation at any time by simply
instructing the CA to stop the automatic renewal and letting the certiﬁcate expire shortly
thereafter.

While the primary use case we address is a delegation of STAR certiﬁcates, the mechanism
proposed here also accommodates long-lived certiﬁcates managed with the ACME protocol. The
most noticeable diﬀerence between long-lived and STAR certiﬁcates is the way the termination of
the delegation is managed. In the case of long-lived certiﬁcates, the IdO uses the revokeCert URL
exposed by the CA and waits for the explicit revocation based on the Certiﬁcate Revocation List
(CRL) and Online Certiﬁcate Status Protocol (OCSP) to propagate to the relying parties.

In case the delegated identity is a domain name, this document also provides a way for the NDC
to inform the IdO about the CNAME mappings that need to be installed in the IdO's DNS zone to
enable the aliasing of the delegated name, thus allowing the complete name delegation workﬂow
to be handled using a single interface.

[TLS-SUBCERTS]

We note that other standardization eﬀorts address the problem of certiﬁcate delegation for TLS
. The former extends the TLS
connections, speciﬁcally
certiﬁcate chain with a customer-owned signing certiﬁcate; the latter separates the server's
private key into a dedicated, more-secure component. Compared to these other approaches, the
current document does not require changes to the TLS network stack of the client or the server,
nor does it introduce additional latency to the TLS connection.

[MGLT-LURK-TLS13]

 and

1.1.  Terminology

IdO

NDC

Identiﬁer Owner, the holder (current owner) of an identiﬁer (e.g., a domain name) that
needs to be delegated. Depending on the context, the term IdO may also be used to
designate the (proﬁled) ACME server deployed by the Identiﬁer Owner or the ACME
client used by the Identiﬁer Owner to interact with the CA.

Name Delegation Consumer, the entity to which the domain name is delegated for a
limited time. This is a CDN in the primary use case (in fact, readers may note the
similarity of the two abbreviations). Depending on the context, the term NDC may also
be used to designate the (proﬁled) ACME client used by the Name Delegation Consumer.

CDN

Content Delivery Network, a widely distributed network that serves the domain's web
content to a wide audience at high performance.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

STAR

Short-Term, Automatically Renewed, as applied to X.509 certiﬁcates.

ACME

Automated Certiﬁcate Management Environment, a certiﬁcate management protocol
.
[RFC8555]

CA

Certiﬁcation Authority, speciﬁcally one that implements the ACME protocol. In this
document, the term is synonymous with "ACME server deployed by the Certiﬁcation
Authority".

CSR

Certiﬁcate Signing Request, speciﬁcally a PKCS#10
as supported by ACME.

[RFC2986]

 Certiﬁcate Signing Request,

FQDN

Fully Qualiﬁed Domain Name.

1.2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Protocol Flow

This section presents the protocol ﬂow. For completeness, we include the ACME proﬁle proposed
in this document as well as the ACME STAR protocol described in

[RFC8739]
.

2.1.  Preconditions

The protocol assumes the following preconditions are met:

•

The IdO exposes an ACME server interface to the NDC(s) comprising the account
management interface.

•

The NDC has registered an ACME account with the IdO.

•

The NDC and IdO have agreed on a "CSR template" to use, including at a minimum: subject
name (e.g., abc.ido.example), requested algorithms and key length, key usage, and
extensions. The NDC will use this template for every CSR created under the same delegation.

•

The IdO has registered an ACME account with the Certiﬁcation Authority (CA).

Note that even if the IdO implements the ACME server role, it is not acting as a CA; in fact, from
the point of view of the certiﬁcate issuance process, the IdO only works as a "policing" forwarder
of the NDC's key pair and is responsible for completing the identity veriﬁcation process towards
the CA.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

2.2.  Overview

For clarity, the protocol overview presented here covers the main use case of this protocol,
namely delegation of STAR certiﬁcates. Protocol behavior for non-STAR certiﬁcates is similar, and
the detailed diﬀerences are listed in the following sections.

The interaction between the NDC and the IdO is governed by the proﬁled ACME workﬂow
detailed in Section 2.3. The interaction between the IdO and the CA is ruled by ACME
ACME STAR
for Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR)).

, and any other ACME extension that applies (e.g.,

[RFC8555]
,
[TOKEN-TNAUTHLIST]

[RFC8739]

The outline of the combined protocol for STAR certiﬁcates is as follows (Figure 1):

•

NDC sends an Order1 for the delegated identiﬁer to IdO.

•

IdO creates an Order1 resource in state ready with a finalize URL.

•

NDC immediately sends a finalize request (which includes the CSR) to the IdO.

•

IdO veriﬁes the CSR according to the agreed upon CSR template.

•

If the CSR veriﬁcation fails, Order1 is moved to an invalid state and everything stops.

•

If the CSR veriﬁcation is successful, IdO moves Order1 to state processing and sends a new
Order2 (using its own account) for the delegated identiﬁer to the CA.

•

If the ACME STAR protocol fails, Order2 moves to invalid, and the same state is reﬂected in
Order1 (i.e., the NDC Order).

•

If the ACME STAR run is successful (i.e., Order2 is valid), IdO copies the star-certificate
URL from Order2 to Order1 and updates the Order1 state to valid.

The NDC can now download, install, and use the short-term certiﬁcate bearing the name
delegated by the IdO. The STAR certiﬁcate can be used until it expires, at which time the NDC is
guaranteed to ﬁnd a new certiﬁcate it can download, install, and use. This continues with
subsequent certiﬁcates until either Order1 expires or the IdO decides to cancel the automatic
renewal process with the CA.

Note that the interactive identiﬁer authorization phase described in
suppressed on the NDC-IdO side because the delegated identity contained in the CSR presented to
the IdO is validated against the conﬁgured CSR template (Section 4.1). Therefore, the NDC sends
the finalize request, including the CSR, to the IdO immediately after Order1 has been
acknowledged. The IdO
 buﬀer a (valid) CSR until the Validation phase completes
successfully.

Section 7.5 of [RFC8555]

SHALL

 is

Also note that the successful negotiation of the unauthenticated GET (
required in order to allow the NDC to access the star-certificate URL on the CA.

Section 3.4 of [RFC8739]

) is

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

Figure 1: End-to-End STAR Delegation Flow

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

etannICreSa~~erriroitutSeT)tNleoiettteutlidAeaAwRcennuedGn~G(]hf(ut]osgETiAtcc[y[rca>nznAiirneanEisksetecraqrsnDiSgoi#T]tCe.Raa~aSatazuiidog<(teCeSfiiweRfmVTSg~asattehSaSCauaSAnivetiaCsicciade1utaeru~eNaitntuhCnanRi>-<TtRdrr<inrAtSieunrEn~~ct[tgielisrOtnAicciodti~lisufula~~cetaieSrreeenr#eirRerielC.TnOSanaeat2meihoteotdc)en[ku~vtoerniAOtdd~tGcevtuww)irvott.dCanuitf1iMctsaiiC2n~Rgertn#pguetdAeeeah~d>c]EecfRFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

2.3.  Delegated Identity Proﬁle

This section deﬁnes a proﬁle of the ACME protocol to be used between the NDC and IdO.

2.3.1.  Delegation Conﬁguration

The IdO must be preconﬁgured to recognize one or more NDCs and present them with details
about certiﬁcate delegations that apply to each one.

2.3.1.1.  Account Object Extensions

An NDC identiﬁes itself to the IdO as an ACME account. The IdO can delegate multiple names to
an NDC, and these conﬁgurations are described through delegation objects associated with the
NDC's account object on the IdO.

As shown in Figure 2, the ACME account resource on the IdO is extended with a new
delegations attribute:

delegations (required, string):

A URL from which a list of delegations conﬁgured for this

account (Section 2.3.1.3) can be fetched via a POST-as-GET request.

{
  "status": "valid",
  "contact": [
    "mailto:delegation-admin@ido.example"
  ],
  "termsOfServiceAgreed": true,
  "orders": "https://example.com/acme/orders/saHpfB",
  "delegations": "https://acme.ido.example/acme/delegations/adFqoz"
}

Figure 2: Example Account Object with Delegations

2.3.1.2.  Delegation Lists

Each account object includes a delegations URL from which a list of delegation conﬁgurations
created by the IdO can be fetched via a POST-as-GET request. The result of the request
JSON object whose delegations ﬁeld is an array of URLs, each identifying a delegation

MUST

 be a

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

conﬁguration made available to the NDC account (Section 2.3.1.3). The server
incomplete list, along with a Link header ﬁeld with a next link relation indicating where further
entries can be acquired.

 return an

MAY

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Link: <https://acme.ido.example/acme/directory>;rel="index"
Link: <https://acme.ido.example/acme/delegations/adFqoz?/
      cursor=2>;rel="next"

{
  "delegations": [
    "https://acme.ido.example/acme/delegation/ogfr8EcolOT",
    "https://acme.ido.example/acme/delegation/wSi5Lbb61E4",
    /* more URLs not shown for example brevity */
    "https://acme.ido.example/acme/delegation/gm0wfLYHBen"
  ]
}

Note that in the ﬁgure above, https://acme.ido.example/acme/delegations/adFqoz?cursor=2
includes a line break for the sake of presentation.

2.3.1.3.  Delegation Objects

This proﬁle extends the ACME resource model with a new read-only delegation object that
represents a delegation conﬁguration that applies to a given NDC.

A delegation object contains the CSR template (see Section 4) that applies to that delegation and,
optionally, any related CNAME mapping for the delegated identiﬁers. Its structure is as follows:

csr-template (required, object):

CSR template, as deﬁned in Section 4.

cname-map (optional, object):

A map of FQDN pairs. In each pair, the name is the delegated
identiﬁer; the value is the corresponding NDC name that is aliased in the IdO's zone ﬁle to
redirect the resolvers to the delegated entity. Both names and values
terminating '.'. This ﬁeld is only meaningful for identiﬁers of type dns.

 be FQDNs with a

MUST

An example delegation object in JSON format is shown in Figure 3.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

{
  "csr-template": {
    "keyTypes": [
      {
        "PublicKeyType": "id-ecPublicKey",
        "namedCurve": "secp256r1",
        "SignatureType": "ecdsa-with-SHA256"
      }
    ],
    "subject": {
      "country": "CA",
      "stateOrProvince": "**",
      "locality": "**"
    },
    "extensions": {
      "subjectAltName": {
        "DNS": [
          "abc.ido.example"
        ]
      },
      "keyUsage": [
        "digitalSignature"
      ],
      "extendedKeyUsage": [
        "serverAuth"
      ]
    }
  },
  "cname-map": {
    "abc.ido.example.": "abc.ndc.example."
  }
}

Figure 3: Example Delegation Conﬁguration Object

In order to indicate which speciﬁc delegation applies to the requested certiﬁcate, a new
delegation attribute is added to the order object on the NDC-IdO side (see Figures 4 and 7). The
value of this attribute is the URL pointing to the delegation conﬁguration object that is to be used
for this certiﬁcate request. If the delegation attribute in the order object contains a URL that
does not correspond to a conﬁguration available to the requesting ACME account, the IdO
return an error response with status code 403 (Forbidden), providing a problem document
[RFC7807]

 with type urn:ietf:params:acme:error:unknownDelegation.

MUST

2.3.2.  Order Object Transmitted from NDC to IdO and to ACME Server (STAR)

If the delegation is for a STAR certiﬁcate, the request object created by the NDC:

• MUST

 have a delegation attribute indicating the preconﬁgured delegation that applies to

this Order;

• MUST

 have entries in the identifiers ﬁeld for each delegated name present in the

conﬁguration;

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

• MUST NOT

 contain the notBefore and notAfter ﬁelds; and

• MUST

 contain an auto-renewal object and, inside it, the ﬁelds listed in

Section 3.1.1 of

[RFC8739]
true.

. In particular, the allow-certificate-get attribute

MUST

 be present and set to

POST /acme/new-order HTTP/1.1
Host: acme.ido.example
Content-Type: application/jose+json

{
  "protected": base64url({
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "https://acme.ido.example/acme/acct/evOfKhNU60wg",
    "nonce": "Alc00Ap6Rt7GMkEl3L1JX5",
    "url": "https://acme.ido.example/acme/new-order"
  }),
  "payload": base64url({
    "identifiers": [
      {
        "type": "dns",
        "value": "abc.ido.example"
      }
    ],
    "auto-renewal": {
      "end-date": "2021-04-20T00:00:00Z",
      "lifetime": 345600,          // 4 days
      "allow-certificate-get": true
    },
    "delegation":
      "https://acme.ido.example/acme/delegation/gm0wfLYHBen"
  }),
  "signature": "g454e3hdBlkT4AEw...nKePnUyZTjGtXZ6H"
}

Figure 4: New STAR Order from NDC

The order object that is created on the IdO:

• MUST

 start in the ready state;

• MUST

 contain an authorizations array with zero elements;

• MUST

 contain the indicated delegation conﬁguration;

• MUST

 contain the indicated auto-renewal settings; and

• MUST NOT

 contain the notBefore and notAfter ﬁelds.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

{
  "status": "ready",
  "expires": "2021-05-01T00:00:00Z",

  "identifiers": [
   {
     "type": "dns",
     "value": "abc.ido.example"
   }
  ],

  "auto-renewal": {
    "end-date": "2021-04-20T00:00:00Z",
    "lifetime": 345600,
    "allow-certificate-get": true
  },

  "delegation":
    "https://acme.ido.example/acme/delegation/gm0wfLYHBen",

  "authorizations": [],

  "finalize": "https://acme.ido.example/acme/order/TO8rfgo/finalize"
}

Figure 5: STAR Order Resource Created on IdO

The Order is then ﬁnalized by the NDC supplying the CSR containing the delegated identiﬁers.
The IdO checks the provided CSR against the template contained in the delegation object that
applies to this request, as described in Section 4.1. If the CSR fails validation for any of the
identiﬁers, the IdO
appropriate type, e.g., rejectedIdentifier or badCSR. The error response
subproblems (
validated, the order object status moves to processing and the twin ACME protocol instance is
initiated on the IdO-CA side.

 return an error response with status code 403 (Forbidden) and an
 contain
) for each failed identiﬁer. If the CSR is successfully

Section 6.7.1 of [RFC8555]

SHOULD

MUST

The request object created by the IdO:

• MUST

 copy the identiﬁers sent by the NDC;

• MUST

 strip the delegation attribute; and

• MUST

 carry a copy of the auto-renewal object sent by the NDC.

When the identiﬁers' authorization has been successfully completed and the certiﬁcate has been
issued by the CA, the IdO:

• MUST

 move its Order resource status to valid and

• MUST

 copy the star-certificate ﬁeld from the STAR Order returned by the CA into its
Order resource. When dereferenced, the star-certificate URL includes (via the Cert-

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

Not-Before and Cert-Not-After HTTP header ﬁelds) the renewal timers needed by the NDC
to inform its certiﬁcate reload logic.

{
  "status": "valid",
  "expires": "2021-05-01T00:00:00Z",

  "identifiers": [
   {
     "type": "dns",
     "value": "abc.ido.example"
   }
  ],

  "auto-renewal": {
    "end-date": "2021-04-20T00:00:00Z",
    "lifetime": 345600,
    "allow-certificate-get": true
  },

  "delegation":
    "https://acme.ido.example/acme/delegation/gm0wfLYHBen",

  "authorizations": [],

  "finalize": "https://acme.ido.example/acme/order/TO8rfgo/finalize",

  "star-certificate": "https://acme.ca.example/acme/order/yTr23sSDg9"
}

Figure 6: STAR Order Resource Updated on IdO

Section 3.4 of [RFC8739]

This delegation protocol is predicated on the NDC being able to fetch certiﬁcates periodically
using an unauthenticated HTTP GET, since, in general, the NDC does not possess an account on
the CA; as a consequence, it cannot issue the standard POST-as-GET ACME request. Therefore,
before forwarding the Order request to the CA, the IdO
supports unauthenticated GET by inspecting the relevant settings in the CA's directory object, as
per
the IdO
and set the allow-certificate-get in the auto-renewal object to false. The same occurs in
case the Order request is forwarded and the CA does not reﬂect the allow-certificate-get
setting in its Order resource. The combination of invalid status and denied allow-
certificate-get in the Order resource at the IdO provides an unambiguous (asynchronous)
signal to the NDC about the failure reason.

. If the CA does not support unauthenticated GET of STAR certiﬁcates,
 move the Order status to invalid

 forward the Order request. Instead, it

 ensure that the selected CA

MUST NOT

SHOULD

MUST

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

2.3.2.1.  CNAME Installation

If one of the objects in the identifiers list is of type dns, the IdO can add the CNAME records
speciﬁed in the delegation object to its zone, for example:

   abc.ido.example. CNAME abc.ndc.example.

2.3.3.  Order Object Transmitted from NDC to IdO and to ACME Server (Non-STAR)

If the delegation is for a non-STAR certiﬁcate, the request object created by the NDC:

• MUST

 have a delegation attribute indicating the preconﬁgured delegation that applies to

this Order;

• MUST

 have entries in the identifiers ﬁeld for each delegated name present in the

conﬁguration; and

• MUST

 have the allow-certificate-get attribute set to true.

POST /acme/new-order HTTP/1.1
Host: acme.ido.example
Content-Type: application/jose+json

{
  "protected": base64url({
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "https://acme.ido.example/acme/acct/evOfKhNU60wg",
    "nonce": "IYBkoQfaCS80UcCn9qH8Gt",
    "url": "https://acme.ido.example/acme/new-order"
  }),
  "payload": base64url({
    "identifiers": [
      {
        "type": "dns",
        "value": "abc.ido.example"
      }
    ],
    "delegation":
      "https://acme.ido.example/acme/delegation/gm0wfLYHBen",
    "allow-certificate-get": true
  }),
  "signature": "j9JBUvMigi4zodud...acYkEKaa8gqWyZ6H"
}

Figure 7: New Non-STAR Order from NDC

The order object that is created on the IdO:

• MUST

 start in the ready state;

• MUST

 contain an authorizations array with zero elements;

• MUST

 contain the indicated delegation conﬁguration; and

• MUST

 contain the indicated allow-certificate-get setting.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

{
  "status": "ready",
  "expires": "2021-05-01T00:00:00Z",

  "identifiers": [
   {
     "type": "dns",
     "value": "abc.ido.example"
   }
  ],

  "delegation":
    "https://acme.ido.example/acme/delegation/gm0wfLYHBen",

  "allow-certificate-get": true,

  "authorizations": [],

  "finalize": "https://acme.ido.example/acme/order/3ZDlhYy/finalize"
}

Figure 8: Non-STAR Order Resource Created on IdO

The Order ﬁnalization by the NDC and the subsequent validation of the CSR by the IdO proceed
in the same way as for the STAR case. If the CSR is successfully validated, the order object status
moves to processing and the twin ACME protocol instance is initiated on the IdO-CA side.

The request object created by the IdO:

• MUST

 copy the identiﬁers sent by the NDC;

• MUST

 strip the delegation attribute; and

• MUST

 copy the allow-certificate-get attribute.

When the identiﬁers' authorization has been successfully completed and the certiﬁcate has been
issued by the CA, the IdO:

• MUST

 move its Order resource status to valid and

• MUST

 copy the certificate ﬁeld from the Order returned by the CA into its Order resource,

as well as notBefore and notAfter if these ﬁelds exist.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

{
  "status": "valid",
  "expires": "2021-05-01T00:00:00Z",

  "identifiers": [
   {
     "type": "dns",
     "value": "abc.ido.example"
   }
  ],

  "delegation":
    "https://acme.ido.example/acme/delegation/gm0wfLYHBen",

  "allow-certificate-get": true,

  "authorizations": [],

  "finalize": "https://acme.ido.example/acme/order/3ZDlhYy/finalize",

  "certificate": "https://acme.ca.example/acme/order/YtR23SsdG9"
}

Figure 9: Non-STAR Order Resource Updated on IdO

At this point of the protocol ﬂow, the same considerations as in Section 2.3.2.1 apply.

SHOULD

Before forwarding the Order request to the CA, the IdO
supports unauthenticated GET by inspecting the relevant settings in the CA's directory object, as
per Section 2.3.5. If the CA does not support unauthenticated GET of certiﬁcate resources, the IdO
 move the Order status to invalid and set
MUST NOT
the allow-certificate-get attribute to false. The same occurs in case the Order request is
forwarded and the CA does not reﬂect the allow-certificate-get setting in its Order resource.
The combination of invalid status and denied allow-certificate-get in the Order resource at
the IdO provides an unambiguous (asynchronous) signal to the NDC about the failure reason.

 forward the Order request. Instead, it

 ensure that the selected CA

MUST

2.3.4.  Capability Discovery

In order to help a client discover support for this proﬁle, the directory object of an ACME server
(typically, one deployed by the IdO) contains the following attribute in the meta ﬁeld:

delegation-enabled (optional, boolean):

Boolean ﬂag indicating support for the proﬁle speciﬁed
 include this key and

MUST

in this memo. An ACME server that supports this delegation proﬁle
MUST

 set it to true.

The IdO
whether it supports delegation of STAR certiﬁcates, non-STAR certiﬁcates, or both.

 declare its support for delegation using delegation-enabled regardless of

MUST

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

In order to help a client discover support for certiﬁcate fetching using unauthenticated HTTP
GET, the directory object of an ACME server (typically, one deployed by the CA) contains the
following attribute in the meta ﬁeld:

allow-certiﬁcate-get (optional, boolean):

See Section 2.3.5.

2.3.5.  Negotiating an Unauthenticated GET

In order to enable the name delegation of non-STAR certiﬁcates, this document deﬁnes a
mechanism that allows a server to advertise support for accessing certiﬁcate resources via
unauthenticated GET (in addition to POST-as-GET) and a client to enable this service with per-
Order granularity.

It is worth pointing out that the protocol elements described in this section have the same names
and semantics as those introduced in
course, they apply to the certiﬁcate resource rather than the star-certiﬁcate resource). However,
they diﬀer in terms of their position in the directory meta and order objects; rather than being
wrapped in an auto-renewal subobject, they are located at the top level.

 for the STAR use case (except, of

Section 3.4 of [RFC8739]

A server states its availability to grant unauthenticated access to a client's Order certiﬁcate by
setting the allow-certificate-get attribute to true in the meta ﬁeld inside the directory object:

allow-certiﬁcate-get (optional, boolean):

If this ﬁeld is present and set to true, the server allows

GET (and HEAD) requests to certiﬁcate URLs.

A client states its desire to access the issued certiﬁcate via unauthenticated GET by adding an
allow-certificate-get attribute to the payload of its newOrder request and setting it to true.

allow-certiﬁcate-get (optional, boolean):

If this ﬁeld is present and set to true, the client

requests the server to allow unauthenticated GET (and HEAD) to the certiﬁcate associated
with this Order.

If the server accepts the request, it

MUST

 reﬂect the attribute setting in the resulting order object.

Note that even when the use of unauthenticated GET has been agreed upon, the server
allow POST-as-GET requests to the certiﬁcate resource.

MUST

 also

2.3.6.  Terminating the Delegation

Identity delegation is terminated diﬀerently depending on whether or not this is a STAR
certiﬁcate.

2.3.6.1.  By Cancellation (STAR)

The IdO can terminate the delegation of a STAR certiﬁcate by requesting its cancellation (see
Section 3.1.2 of [RFC8739]

).

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

Cancellation of the ACME STAR certiﬁcate is a prerogative of the IdO. The NDC does not own the
relevant account key on the CA; therefore, it can't issue a cancellation request for the STAR
certiﬁcate. Potentially, since it holds the STAR certiﬁcate's private key, it could request the
revocation of a single STAR certiﬁcate. However, STAR explicitly disables the revokeCert
interface.

Shortly after the automatic renewal process is stopped by the IdO, the last issued STAR certiﬁcate
expires and the delegation terminates.

2.3.6.2.  By Revocation (Non-STAR)

The IdO can terminate the delegation of a non-STAR certiﬁcate by requesting it to be revoked
using the revokeCert URL exposed by the CA.

Section 7.6 of [RFC8555]

, the revocation endpoint can be used with either the

According to
account key pair or the certiﬁcate key pair. In other words, an NDC that learns the revokeCert
URL of the CA (which is publicly available via the CA's directory object) would be able to revoke
the certiﬁcate using the associated private key. However, given the trust relationship between
the NDC and IdO expected by the delegation trust model (Section 7.1), as well as the lack of
incentives for the NDC to prematurely terminate the delegation, this does not represent a
signiﬁcant security risk.

2.4.  Proxy Behavior

There are cases where the ACME Delegation ﬂow should be proxied, such as the use case
described in Section 5.1.2. This section describes the behavior of such proxies.

An entity implementing the IdO server role -- an "ACME Delegation server" -- may behave, on a
per-identity case, either as a proxy into another ACME Delegation server or as an IdO and obtain
a certiﬁcate directly. The determining factor is whether it can successfully be authorized by the
next-hop ACME server for the identity associated with the certiﬁcate request.

The identities supported by each server and the disposition for each of them are preconﬁgured.

Following is the proxy's behavior for each of the messages exchanged in the ACME Delegation
process:

New-order request:

•

The complete identifiers attribute

MUST

 be copied as is.

•

Similarly, the auto-renewal object

MUST

 be copied as is.

New-order response:

•

The status, expires, authorizations, identifiers, and auto-renewal attributes/
objects

 be copied as is.

MUST

•

The finalize URL is rewritten so that the finalize request will be made to the proxy.

•

Similarly, the Location header
proxy.

MUST

 be rewritten to point to an order object on the

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

•

Any Link relations

MUST

 be rewritten to point to the proxy.

Get Order response:

•

The status, expires, authorizations, identifiers, and auto-renewal attributes/
objects

 be copied as is.

MUST

•

Similarly, the star-certificate URL (or the certificate URL in case of non-STAR
requests)

 be copied as is.

MUST

•

The finalize URL is rewritten so that the finalize request will be made to the proxy.

•

The Location header

MUST

 be rewritten to point to an order object on the proxy.

•

Any Link relations

MUST

 be rewritten to point to the proxy.

finalize request:

•

The CSR

MUST

 be copied as is.

finalize response:

•

The Location header, Link relations, and the finalize URLs are rewritten as for Get
Order.

We note that all the above messages are authenticated; therefore, each proxy must be able to
authenticate any subordinate server.

3.  CA Behavior

Although most of this document, and in particular Section 2, is focused on the protocol between
the NDC and IdO, the protocol does aﬀect the ACME server running in the CA. A CA that wishes to
support certiﬁcate delegation
declares using allow-certificate-get (Section 2.3.5, Paragraph 3).

 also support unauthenticated certiﬁcate fetching, which it

MUST

4.  CSR Template

The CSR template is used to express and constrain the shape of the CSR that the NDC uses to
request the certiﬁcate. The CSR is used for every certiﬁcate created under the same delegation.
Its validation by the IdO is a critical element in the security of the whole delegation mechanism.

Instead of deﬁning every possible CSR attribute, this document takes a minimalist approach by
declaring only the minimum attribute set and deferring the registration of further, more-speciﬁc
attributes to future documents.

4.1.  Template Syntax

The template is a JSON document. Each ﬁeld (with the exception of keyTypes, see below) denotes
one of the following:

•

A mandatory ﬁeld where the template speciﬁes the literal value of that ﬁeld. This is denoted
by a literal string, such as abc.ido.example.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

•

A mandatory ﬁeld where the content of the ﬁeld is deﬁned by the client. This is denoted by
**.

•

An optional ﬁeld where the client decides whether the ﬁeld is included in the CSR and, if so,
what its value is. This is denoted by *.

The NDC
speciﬁed in the template.

MUST NOT

 include any ﬁelds in the CSR, including any extensions, unless they are

The structure of the template object is deﬁned by the Concise Data Deﬁnition Language (CDDL)
[RFC8610]
 document in Appendix A. An alternative, nonnormative JSON Schema syntax is given
in Appendix B. While the CSR template must follow the syntax deﬁned here, neither the IdO nor
the NDC are expected to validate it at runtime.

The subject ﬁeld and its subﬁelds are mapped into the subject ﬁeld of the CSR, as per
4.1.2.6 of [RFC5280]
. Other extension ﬁelds of the CSR template are mapped into the CSR
according to the table in Section 6.5.

Section

The subjectAltName ﬁeld is currently deﬁned for the following identiﬁers: DNS names, email
addresses, and URIs. New identiﬁer types may be added in the future by documents that extend
this speciﬁcation. Each new identiﬁer type
challenge that the CA can use to obtain proof of the requester's control over it.

 have an associated identiﬁer validation

SHALL

The keyTypes property is not copied into the CSR. Instead, this property constrains the
SubjectPublicKeyInfo ﬁeld of the CSR, which
array members of the keyTypes property.

 have the type/size deﬁned by one of the

MUST

MUST

 verify that the CSR is consistent with the template

When the IdO receives the CSR, it
contained in the delegation object referenced in the Order. The IdO
constraints, e.g., by restricting ﬁeld lengths. In this regard, note that a subjectAltName of type
DNS can be speciﬁed using the wildcard notation, meaning that the NDC can be required (**) or
oﬀered the possibility (*) to deﬁne the delegated domain name by itself. If this is the case, the IdO
MUST
template to ensure the requested domain name is legitimate according to its local policy.

 apply application-speciﬁc checks on top of the control rules already provided by the CSR

 enforce additional

MAY

4.2.  Example

The CSR template in Figure 10 represents one possible CSR template governing the delegation
exchanges provided in the rest of this document.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

{
  "keyTypes": [
    {
      "PublicKeyType": "rsaEncryption",
      "PublicKeyLength": 2048,
      "SignatureType": "sha256WithRSAEncryption"
    },
    {
      "PublicKeyType": "id-ecPublicKey",
      "namedCurve": "secp256r1",
      "SignatureType": "ecdsa-with-SHA256"
    }
  ],
  "subject": {
    "country": "CA",
    "stateOrProvince": "**",
    "locality": "**"
  },
  "extensions": {
    "subjectAltName": {
      "DNS": [
        "abc.ido.example"
      ]
    },
    "keyUsage": [
      "digitalSignature"
    ],
    "extendedKeyUsage": [
      "serverAuth",
      "clientAuth"
    ]
  }
}

Figure 10: Example CSR Template

5.  Further Use Cases

This nonnormative section describes additional use cases implementing the STAR certiﬁcate
delegation in nontrivial ways.

5.1.  CDN Interconnection (CDNI)

[HTTPS-DELEGATION]
for the CDN Interconnection (CDNI) environment. This section discusses two of the stated
requirements in the context of the STAR delegation workﬂow.

 discusses several solutions addressing diﬀerent delegation requirements

This section uses speciﬁc CDNI terminology, e.g., Upstream CDN (uCDN) and Downstream (dCDN),
as deﬁned in

[RFC7336]

.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

5.1.1.  Multiple Parallel Delegates

In some cases, the content owner (IdO) would like to delegate authority over a website to
multiple NDCs (CDNs). This could happen if the IdO has agreements in place with diﬀerent
regional CDNs for diﬀerent geographical regions or if a "backup" CDN is used to handle overﬂow
traﬃc by temporarily altering some of the CNAME mappings in place. The STAR delegation ﬂow
enables this use case naturally, since each CDN can authenticate separately to the IdO (via its
own separate account) specifying its CSR, and the IdO is free to allow or deny each certiﬁcate
request according to its own policy.

5.1.2.  Chained Delegation

In other cases, a content owner (IdO) delegates some domains to a large CDN (uCDN), which in
turn delegates to a smaller regional CDN (dCDN). The IdO has a contractual relationship with
uCDN, and uCDN has a similar relationship with dCDN. However, IdO may not even know about
dCDN.

If needed, the STAR protocol can be chained to support this use case: uCDN could forward
requests from dCDN to IdO and forward responses back to dCDN. Whether such proxying is
allowed is governed by policy and contracts between the parties.

A mechanism is necessary at the interface between uCDN and dCDN, by which the uCDN can
advertise:

•

the names that the dCDN is allowed to use and

•

the policy for creating the key material (allowed algorithms, minimum key lengths, key
usage, etc.) that the dCDN needs to satisfy.

Note that such mechanism is provided by the CSR template.

5.1.2.1.  Two-Level Delegation in CDNI

A User Agent (UA), e.g., a browser or set-top box, wants to fetch the video resource at the
following URI: https://video.cp.example/movie. Redirection between the content provider
(CP) and upstream and downstream CDNs is arranged as a CNAME-based aliasing chain, as
illustrated in Figure 11.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

Figure 11: DNS Redirection

Unlike HTTP-based redirection, where the original URL is supplanted by the one found in the
Location header of the 302 response, DNS redirection is completely transparent to the User
Agent. As a result, the TLS connection to the dCDN edge is done with a Server Name Indication
(SNI) equal to the host in the original URI -- in the example, video.cp.example. So, in order to
successfully complete the handshake, the landing dCDN node has to be conﬁgured with a
certiﬁcate whose subjectAltName ﬁeld matches video.cp.example, i.e., a content provider's
name.

Figure 12 illustrates the cascaded delegation ﬂow that allows dCDN to obtain a STAR certiﬁcate
that bears a name belonging to the content provider with a private key that is only known to the
dCDN.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

.Mea.eipe(NeUN.pCSipAn(.?dNemumSDln.cllAoaiMecxNa.vACvo0avppp(DS:eDcTodndie.DaxmeNdmvcxS..cv2ePdDNANLdeccl)diTee.SSpe2peNe..a.adEvSo9Cd?ubCdemildDomu1xne)?1Ioldd)CLNE.x.xRFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

Figure 12: Two-Level Delegation in CDNI

uCDN is conﬁgured to delegate to dCDN, and CP is conﬁgured to delegate to uCDN, both as
deﬁned in Section 2.3.1.

1.

dCDN requests CDNI path metadata to uCDN.

2.

uCDN replies with, among other CDNI metadata, the STAR delegation conﬁguration, which
includes the delegated content provider's name.

3.

dCDN creates a key pair and the CSR with the delegated name. It then places an order for the
delegated name to uCDN.

4.

uCDN forwards the received order to the content provider (CP).

5.

CP creates an order for a STAR certiﬁcate and sends it to the CA. The order also requests
unauthenticated access to the certiﬁcate resource.

6.

After all authorizations complete successfully, the STAR certiﬁcate is issued.

7.

CP notiﬁes uCDN that the STAR certiﬁcate is available at the order's star-certificate URL.

8.

uCDN forwards the information to dCDN. At this point, the ACME signaling is complete.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

vidAC1CeeSRDlSuwTM8NeEPlTArE0CIDCecRHCSTIfeCMlTT21dRdARNTPlTAAR73CADdTPNlSs54TSCDcNdHeA6A9iRFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

9.

dCDN requests the STAR certiﬁcate using unauthenticated GET from the CA.

10.

The CA returns the certiﬁcate. Now dCDN is fully conﬁgured to handle HTTPS traﬃc in lieu
of the content provider.

Note that 9 and 10 repeat until the delegation expires or is terminated.

5.2.  Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR)

As a second use case, we consider the delegation of credentials in the STIR ecosystem

[RFC9060]

.

This section uses STIR terminology. The term Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT) is deﬁned in
.
[RFC8226]
[RFC8225]

, and "TNAuthList" is deﬁned in

In the STIR delegated mode, a service provider SP2 -- the NDC -- needs to sign PASSporTs
[RFC8225]
the IdO. In order to do that, SP2 needs a STIR certiﬁcate and a private key that includes TN=+123
in the TNAuthList

 for telephone numbers (e.g., TN=+123) belonging to another service provider, SP1 --

 certiﬁcate extension.

[RFC8226]

In detail (Figure 13):

1.

SP1 and SP2 agree on the conﬁguration of the delegation -- in particular, the CSR template
that applies.

2.

SP2 generates a private/public key pair and sends a CSR to SP1, requesting creation of a
certiﬁcate with an SP1 name, an SP2 public key, and a TNAuthList extension with the list of
TNs that SP1 delegates to SP2. (Note that the CSR sent by SP2 to SP1 needs to be validated
against the CSR template agreed upon in step 1.).

3.

SP1 sends an order for the CSR to the CA. The order also requests unauthenticated access to
the certiﬁcate resource.

4.

Subsequently, after the required TNAuthList authorizations are successfully completed, the
CA moves the order to a "valid" state; at the same time, the star-certiﬁcate endpoint is
populated.

5.

The contents of the order are forwarded from SP1 to SP2 by means of the paired "delegation"
order.

6.

SP2 dereferences the star-certificate URL in the order to fetch the rolling STAR certiﬁcate
bearing the delegated identiﬁers.

7.

The STAR certiﬁcate is returned to SP2.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

Figure 13: Delegation in STIR

As shown, the STAR delegation proﬁle described in this document applies straightforwardly; the
only extra requirement being the ability to instruct the NDC about the allowed TNAuthList
values. This can be achieved by a simple extension to the CSR template.

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  New Fields in the "meta" Object within a Directory Object

This document adds the following entries to the "ACME Directory Metadata Fields" registry:

Field Name

Field Type

Reference

delegation-enabled

boolean

RFC 9115

allow-certiﬁcate-get

boolean

RFC 9115

Table 1

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

1HSlPeTTPPilSRlc3TceiRS7eAA26T1slEAARSCTTSdvCAHdre5MdeR4PeTAlST2RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

6.2.  New Fields in the Order Object

This document adds the following entries to the "ACME Order Object Fields" registry:

Field Name

Field Type

Conﬁgurable

Reference

allow-certiﬁcate-get

boolean

delegation

string

true

true

RFC 9115

RFC 9115

Table 2

6.3.  New Fields in the Account Object

This document adds the following entries to the "ACME Account Object Fields" registry:

Field Name

Field Type

Requests

Reference

delegations

string

none

RFC 9115

Table 3

Note that the delegations ﬁeld is only reported by ACME servers that have delegation-
enabled set to true in their meta Object.

6.4.  New Error Types

This document adds the following entries to the "ACME Error Types" registry:

Type

Description

unknownDelegation

An unknown conﬁguration is listed in the delegation
attribute of the order request

Reference

RFC 9115

Table 4

6.5.  CSR Template Extensions

IANA has established the "STAR Delegation CSR Template Extensions" registry, with "Speciﬁcation
Required" as its registration procedure.

Each extension registered must specify:

•

an extension name,

•

an extension syntax, as a reference to a CDDL document that deﬁnes this extension, and

•

the extension's mapping into an X.509 certiﬁcate extension.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

The initial contents of this registry are the extensions deﬁned by the CDDL in Appendix A.

Extension Name

keyUsage

extendedKeyUsage

subjectAltName

Extension
Syntax

See Appendix
A

See Appendix
A

See Appendix
A

Table 5

Mapping to X.509 Certiﬁcate Extension

[RFC5280], Section 4.2.1.3

[RFC5280], Section 4.2.1.12

[RFC5280], Section 4.2.1.6
 (note that only speciﬁc
name formats are allowed: URI, DNS name, email
address)

When evaluating a request for an assignment in this registry, the designated expert should
follow this guidance:

•

The deﬁnition must include a full CDDL deﬁnition, which the expert will validate.

•

The deﬁnition must include both positive and negative test cases.

•

Additional requirements that are not captured by the CDDL deﬁnition are allowed but must
be explicitly speciﬁed.

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Trust Model

The ACME trust model needs to be extended to include the trust relationship between NDC and
IdO. Note that once this trust link is established, it potentially becomes recursive. Therefore,
there has to be a trust relationship between each of the nodes in the delegation chain; for
example, in case of cascading CDNs, this is contractually deﬁned. Note that when using standard
[RFC6125]
of the delegated name once the name has been handed over to the ﬁrst NDC. It is, therefore,
expected that contractual measures are in place to get some assurance that redelegation is not
being performed.

 identity veriﬁcation, there are no mechanisms available to the IdO to restrict the use

7.2.  Delegation Security Goal

Delegation introduces a new security goal: only an NDC that has been authorized by the IdO,
either directly or transitively, can obtain a certiﬁcate with an IdO identity.

From a security point of view, the delegation process has ﬁve separate parts:

1.

enabling a speciﬁc third party (the intended NDC) to submit requests for delegated
certiﬁcates

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

2.

making sure that any request for a delegated certiﬁcate matches the intended "shape" in
terms of delegated identities as well as any other certiﬁcate metadata, e.g., key length, x.509
extensions, etc.

3.

serving the certiﬁcate back to the NDC

4.

handling revocation of the delegation

5.

handling revocation of the certiﬁcate itself

The ﬁrst part is covered by the NDC's ACME account that is administered by the IdO, whose
security relies on the correct handling of the associated key pair. When a compromise of the
private key is detected, the delegate
Section 7.3.6 of [RFC8555]

 use the account deactivation procedures deﬁned in

MUST

.

The second part is covered by the act of checking an NDC's certiﬁcate request against the
intended CSR template. The steps of shaping the CSR template correctly, selecting the right CSR
template to check against the presented CSR, and making sure that the presented CSR matches
the selected CSR template are all security relevant.

The third part builds on the trust relationship between NDC and IdO that is responsible for
correctly forwarding the certiﬁcate URL from the Order returned by the CA.

The fourth part is associated with the ability of the IdO to unilaterally remove the delegation
object associated with the revoked identity, therefore, disabling any further NDC requests for
such identity. Note that, in more extreme circumstances, the IdO might decide to disable the NDC
account, thus entirely blocking any further interaction.

The ﬁfth is covered by two diﬀerent mechanisms, depending on the nature of the certiﬁcate. For
STAR, the IdO shall use the cancellation interface deﬁned in
STAR, the certiﬁcate revocation interface deﬁned in

Section 2.3 of [RFC8739]
) is used.

Section 7.6 of [RFC8555]

. For non-

The ACME account associated with the delegation plays a crucial role in the overall security of
the presented protocol. This, in turn, means that (in delegation scenarios) the security
requirements and veriﬁcation associated with an ACME account may be more stringent than in
base ACME deployments, since the out-of-band conﬁguration of delegations that an account is
authorized to use (combined with account authentication) takes the place of the normal ACME
authorization challenge procedures. Therefore, the IdO
associated with the exact policies (via their matching delegation objects) that deﬁne which
domain names can be delegated to the account and how. The IdO is expected to use out-of-band
means to preregister each NDC to the corresponding account.

 ensure that each account is

MUST

7.3.  New ACME Channels

Using the model established in
the basic delegation workﬂow, as shown in Figure 14.

Section 10.1 of [RFC8555]

, we can decompose the interactions of

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

Figure 14: Delegation Channels Topology

[RFC8555]

 apply verbatim to the IdO-CA leg. The same can be said for the ACME

The considerations regarding the security of the ACME Channel and Validation Channel
discussed in
Channel on the NDC-IdO leg. A slightly diﬀerent set of considerations apply to the ACME Channel
between the NDC and CA, which consists of a subset of the ACME interface comprising two API
endpoints: the unauthenticated certiﬁcate retrieval and, potentially, non-STAR revocation via
certiﬁcate private key. No speciﬁc security considerations apply to the former, but the privacy
considerations in
 do. With regard to the latter, it should be noted that
there is currently no means for an IdO to disable authorizing revocation based on certiﬁcate
private keys. So, in theory, an NDC could use the revocation API directly with the CA, therefore,
bypassing the IdO. The NDC
unless failing to do so would compromise the overall security, for example, if the certiﬁcate
private key is compromised and the IdO is not currently reachable.

 directly use the revocation interface exposed by the CA

Section 6.3 of [RFC8739]

SHOULD NOT

All other security considerations from
topology.

[RFC8555]

 and

[RFC8739]

 apply as is to the delegation

7.4.  Restricting CDNs to the Delegation Mechanism

When a website is delegated to a CDN, the CDN can in principle modify the website at will, e.g.,
create and remove pages. This means that a malicious or breached CDN can pass the ACME (as
well as common non-ACME) HTTPS-based validation challenges and generate a certiﬁcate for the
site. This is true regardless of whether or not the CNAME mechanisms deﬁned in the current
document is used.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

dieahldiOrtOeActcvCIVifeADennfhcfaoIehvnio]-dhteEtedee1UunoeeMhM.CtancEA[efSaMConsatnRnCtachnseAtun1Nl)noerabniatleClciActCanTnsdtaane]ilnl(raii[tCCcrrCERFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

In some cases, this is the desired behavior; the domain holder trusts the CDN to have full control
of the cryptographic credentials for the site. However, this document assumes a scenario where
the domain holder only wants to delegate restricted control and wishes to retain the capability to
cancel the CDN's credentials at a short notice.

The following is a possible mitigation when the IdO wishes to ensure that a rogue CDN cannot
issue unauthorized certiﬁcates:

•

The domain holder makes sure that the CDN cannot modify the DNS records for the domain.
The domain holder should ensure it is the only entity authorized to modify the DNS zone.
Typically, it establishes a CNAME resource record from a subdomain into a CDN-managed
domain.

•

The domain holder uses a Certiﬁcation Authority Authorization (CAA) record
 to
restrict certiﬁcate issuance for the domain to speciﬁc CAs that comply with ACME and are
known to implement

[RFC8659]

[RFC8657]

.

•

The domain holder uses the ACME-speciﬁc CAA mechanism
a speciﬁc CA account that is controlled by it and
method.

MUST

[RFC8657]

 to restrict issuance to
 require "dns-01" as the sole validation

We note that the above solution may need to be tweaked depending on the exact capabilities and
authorization ﬂows supported by the selected CA. In addition, this mitigation may be bypassed if
a malicious or misconﬁgured CA does not comply with CAA restrictions.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2986]

[RFC5280]

[RFC7807]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and
Nystrom, M.
,
,
Version 1.7" RFC 2986 DOI 10.17487/RFC2986
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2986>

,

.

B. Kaliski "PKCS #10: Certiﬁcation Request Syntax Speciﬁcation

, November 2000,

<https://

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation
List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Nottingham, M.
10.17487/RFC7807

E. Wilde "Problem Details for HTTP APIs" RFC 7807 DOI

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7807>

, March 2016,

,

,

 and

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

[RFC8555]

[RFC8610]

[RFC8739]

,

J. Kasten "Automatic
Barnes, R. Hoﬀman-Andrews, J. McCarney, D.
Certiﬁcate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8555 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8555

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8555>

, March 2019,

, and
,

,

,

.

,

, and

Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
,
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Deﬁnition Language

, June 2019,

,

,

.

,

,

,
Sheﬀer, Y. Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Pastor Perales, A.
T. Fossati
"Support for Short-Term, Automatically Renewed (STAR) Certiﬁcates in the
Automated Certiﬁcate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8739 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8739>
10.17487/RFC8739

, March 2020,

, and

,

,

,

8.2.  Informative References

[HTTPS-DELEGATION]

Fieau, F. Stephan, E.

,

S. Mishra "CDNI extensions for HTTPS

,

,

delegation" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-cdni-interfaces-https-
delegation-06
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
ietf-cdni-interfaces-https-delegation-06>

, 10 September 2021,

.

, and
,

[json-schema-07]

Wright, A. Andrews, H.

,

, and

B. Hutton "JSON Schema Validation: A

,

Vocabulary for Structural Validation of JSON" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-handrews-json-schema-validation-02
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-handrews-json-schema-validation-02>

, 17 September 2019,

,
<https://

,

.

[MGLT-LURK-TLS13]

Migault, D. "LURK Extension version 1 for (D)TLS 1.3 Authentication"

,

Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-mglt-lurk-tls13-05
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mglt-lurk-tls13-05>

.

, 26 July 2021,

<https://

,
,

[RFC6125]

[RFC7336]

[RFC8225]

[RFC8226]

,

 and

J. Hodges "Representation and Veriﬁcation of Domain-Based

Saint-Andre, P.
Application Service Identity within Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using
X.509 (PKIX) Certiﬁcates in the Context of Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
,
6125 DOI 10.17487/RFC6125
rfc6125>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

.

,

Peterson, L. Davie, B.
,
Distribution Network Interconnection (CDNI)" RFC 7336 DOI 10.17487/RFC7336
August 2014,

,
R. van Brandenburg, Ed. "Framework for Content

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7336>

, and

,

,

.

Wendt, C.
10.17487/RFC8225

J. Peterson "PASSporT: Personal Assertion Token" RFC 8225 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8225>

,
, February 2018,

 and

,

.

 and

Peterson, J.
,
RFC 8226 DOI 10.17487/RFC8226
info/rfc8226>

,

.

S. Turner "Secure Telephone Identity Credentials: Certiﬁcates"

,

, February 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

[RFC8657]

[RFC8659]

[RFC9060]

,

Landau, H. "Certiﬁcation Authority Authorization (CAA) Record Extensions for
Account URI and Automatic Certiﬁcate Management Environment (ACME)
Method Binding" RFC 8657 DOI 10.17487/RFC8657
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8657>

, November 2019,

<https://

,

.

,

Hallam-Baker, P. Stradling, R.
J. Hoﬀman-Andrews "DNS Certiﬁcation
Authority Authorization (CAA) Resource Record" RFC 8659 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8659

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8659>

, November 2019,

, and

,

,

.

,

,

Peterson, J. "Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR) Certiﬁcate Delegation"
,
RFC 9060 DOI 10.17487/RFC9060
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc9060>

, September 2021,

.

,

[TLS-SUBCERTS]

Barnes, R. Iyengar, S. Sullivan, N.

,

,

, and

E. Rescorla "Delegated Credentials for

,

,
TLS" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-subcerts-10
2021,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-subcerts-10>

, 24 January
.

,

[TOKEN-TNAUTHLIST]

,

Wendt, C. Hancock, D. Barnes, M.
,

, and
,
of ACME Authority Token" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-acme-
, 27 March 2021,
authority-token-tnauthlist-08
html/draft-ietf-acme-authority-token-tnauthlist-08>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

J. Peterson "TNAuthList proﬁle

,

,

.

Appendix A.  CSR Template: CDDL

Following is the normative deﬁnition of the CSR template using CDDL
template

. The CSR
 be a valid JSON document that is compliant with the syntax deﬁned here.

[RFC8610]

MUST

There are additional constraints not expressed in CDDL that
including:

MUST

 be validated by the recipient,

•

the value of each subjectAltName entry is compatible with its type and

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

•

the parameters in each keyTypes entry form an acceptable combination.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

csr-template-schema = {
  keyTypes: [ + $keyType ]
  ? subject: non-empty<distinguishedName>
  extensions: extensions
}

non-empty<M> = (M) .and ({ + any => any })

mandatory-wildcard = "**"
optional-wildcard = "*"
wildcard = mandatory-wildcard / optional-wildcard

; regtext matches all text strings but "*" and "**"
regtext = text .regexp "([^\*].*)|([\*][^\*].*)|([\*][\*].+)"

regtext-or-wildcard = regtext / wildcard

distinguishedName = {
  ? country: regtext-or-wildcard
  ? stateOrProvince: regtext-or-wildcard
  ? locality: regtext-or-wildcard
  ? organization: regtext-or-wildcard
  ? organizationalUnit: regtext-or-wildcard
  ? emailAddress: regtext-or-wildcard
  ? commonName: regtext-or-wildcard
}

$keyType /= rsaKeyType
$keyType /= ecdsaKeyType

rsaKeyType = {
  PublicKeyType: "rsaEncryption" ; OID: 1.2.840.113549.1.1.1
  PublicKeyLength: rsaKeySize
  SignatureType: $rsaSignatureType
}

rsaKeySize = uint

; RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5 with SHA-256
$rsaSignatureType /= "sha256WithRSAEncryption"
; RSASSA-PCKS1-v1_5 with SHA-384
$rsaSignatureType /= "sha384WithRSAEncryption"
; RSASSA-PCKS1-v1_5 with SHA-512
$rsaSignatureType /= "sha512WithRSAEncryption"
; RSASSA-PSS with SHA-256, MGF-1 with SHA-256, and a 32 byte salt
$rsaSignatureType /= "sha256WithRSAandMGF1"
; RSASSA-PSS with SHA-384, MGF-1 with SHA-384, and a 48 byte salt
$rsaSignatureType /= "sha384WithRSAandMGF1"
; RSASSA-PSS with SHA-512, MGF-1 with SHA-512, and a 64 byte salt
$rsaSignatureType /= "sha512WithRSAandMGF1"

ecdsaKeyType = {
  PublicKeyType: "id-ecPublicKey" ; OID: 1.2.840.10045.2.1
  namedCurve: $ecdsaCurve
  SignatureType: $ecdsaSignatureType
}

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

$ecdsaCurve /= "secp256r1" ; OID: 1.2.840.10045.3.1.7
$ecdsaCurve /= "secp384r1" ; OID: 1.3.132.0.34
$ecdsaCurve /= "secp521r1" ; OID: 1.3.132.0.3

$ecdsaSignatureType /= "ecdsa-with-SHA256" ; paired with secp256r1
$ecdsaSignatureType /= "ecdsa-with-SHA384" ; paired with secp384r1
$ecdsaSignatureType /= "ecdsa-with-SHA512" ; paired with secp521r1

subjectaltname = {
  ? DNS: [ + regtext-or-wildcard ]
  ? Email: [ + regtext ]
  ? URI: [ + regtext ]
  * $$subjectaltname-extension
}

extensions = {
  ? keyUsage: [ + keyUsageType ]
  ? extendedKeyUsage: [ + extendedKeyUsageType ]
  subjectAltName: non-empty<subjectaltname>
}

keyUsageType /= "digitalSignature"
keyUsageType /= "nonRepudiation"
keyUsageType /= "keyEncipherment"
keyUsageType /= "dataEncipherment"
keyUsageType /= "keyAgreement"
keyUsageType /= "keyCertSign"
keyUsageType /= "cRLSign"
keyUsageType /= "encipherOnly"
keyUsageType /= "decipherOnly"

extendedKeyUsageType /= "serverAuth"
extendedKeyUsageType /= "clientAuth"
extendedKeyUsageType /= "codeSigning"
extendedKeyUsageType /= "emailProtection"
extendedKeyUsageType /= "timeStamping"
extendedKeyUsageType /= "OCSPSigning"
extendedKeyUsageType /= oid

oid = text .regexp "([0-2])((\.0)|(\.[1-9][0-9]*))*"

Appendix B.  CSR Template: JSON Schema

This appendix includes an alternative, nonnormative JSON Schema deﬁnition of the CSR
template. The syntax used is that of draft 7 of JSON Schema, which is documented in
schema-07]
JSON Schema syntax. At the time of writing, a stable reference for this syntax is not yet available,
and we have chosen to use the draft version, which is currently best supported by tool
implementations.

. Note that later versions of this (now-expired) draft describe later versions of the

[json-

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

The same considerations about additional constraints checking discussed in Appendix A apply
here as well.

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

{
  "title": "JSON Schema for the STAR Delegation CSR template",
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  "$id": "http://ietf.org/acme/drafts/star-delegation/csr-template",
  "$defs": {
    "distinguished-name": {
      "$id": "#distinguished-name",
      "type": "object",
      "minProperties": 1,
      "properties": {
        "country": {
          "type": "string"
        },
        "stateOrProvince": {
          "type": "string"
        },
        "locality": {
          "type": "string"
        },
        "organization": {
          "type": "string"
        },
        "organizationalUnit": {
          "type": "string"
        },
        "emailAddress": {
          "type": "string"
        },
        "commonName": {
          "type": "string"
        }
      },
      "additionalProperties": false
    },
    "rsaKeyType": {
      "$id": "#rsaKeyType",
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "PublicKeyType": {
          "type": "string",
          "const": "rsaEncryption"
        },
        "PublicKeyLength": {
          "type": "integer"
        },
        "SignatureType": {
          "type": "string",
          "enum": [
            "sha256WithRSAEncryption",
            "sha384WithRSAEncryption",
            "sha512WithRSAEncryption",
            "sha256WithRSAandMGF1",
            "sha384WithRSAandMGF1",
            "sha512WithRSAandMGF1"
          ]
        }
      },

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

      "required": [
        "PublicKeyType",
        "PublicKeyLength",
        "SignatureType"
      ],
      "additionalProperties": false
    },
    "ecdsaKeyType": {
      "$id": "#ecdsaKeyType",
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "PublicKeyType": {
          "type": "string",
          "const": "id-ecPublicKey"
        },
        "namedCurve": {
          "type": "string",
          "enum": [
            "secp256r1",
            "secp384r1",
            "secp521r1"
          ]
        },
        "SignatureType": {
          "type": "string",
          "enum": [
            "ecdsa-with-SHA256",
            "ecdsa-with-SHA384",
            "ecdsa-with-SHA512"
          ]
        }
      },
      "required": [
        "PublicKeyType",
        "namedCurve",
        "SignatureType"
      ],
      "additionalProperties": false
    }
  },
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "keyTypes": {
      "type": "array",
      "minItems": 1,
      "items": {
        "anyOf": [
          {
            "$ref": "#rsaKeyType"
          },
          {
            "$ref": "#ecdsaKeyType"
          }
        ]
      }
    },
    "subject": {
      "$ref": "#distinguished-name"

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

    },
    "extensions": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "keyUsage": {
          "type": "array",
          "minItems": 1,
          "items": {
            "type": "string",
            "enum": [
              "digitalSignature",
              "nonRepudiation",
              "keyEncipherment",
              "dataEncipherment",
              "keyAgreement",
              "keyCertSign",
              "cRLSign",
              "encipherOnly",
              "decipherOnly"
            ]
          }
        },
        "extendedKeyUsage": {
          "type": "array",
          "minItems": 1,
          "items": {
            "anyOf": [
              {
                "type": "string",
                "enum": [
                  "serverAuth",
                  "clientAuth",
                  "codeSigning",
                  "emailProtection",
                  "timeStamping",
                  "OCSPSigning"
                ]
              },
              {
                "type": "string",
                "pattern": "^([0-2])((\\.0)|(\\.[1-9][0-9]*))*$",
                "description": "Used for OID values"
              }
            ]
          }
        },
        "subjectAltName": {
          "type": "object",
          "minProperties": 1,
          "properties": {
            "DNS": {
              "type": "array",
              "minItems": 1,
              "items": {
                "anyOf": [
                  {
                    "type": "string",
                    "enum": [

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

                      "*",
                      "**"
                    ]
                  },
                  {
                    "type": "string",
                    "format": "hostname"
                  }
                ]
              }
            },
            "Email": {
              "type": "array",
              "minItems": 1,
              "items": {
                "type": "string",
                "format": "email"
              }
            },
            "URI": {
              "type": "array",
              "minItems": 1,
              "items": {
                "type": "string",
                "format": "uri"
              }
            }
          },
          "additionalProperties": false
        }
      },
      "required": [
        "subjectAltName"
      ],
      "additionalProperties": false
    }
  },
  "required": [
    "extensions",
    "keyTypes"
  ],
  "additionalProperties": false
}

Acknowledgements

We would like to thank the following people who contributed signiﬁcantly to this document with
Richard Barnes Carsten Bormann Roman
their review comments and design proposals:
Danyliw Lars Eggert Frédéric Fieau Russ Housley Ben Kaduk Eric Kline Sanjay Mishra
Francesca Palombini Jon Peterson Ryan Sleevi Emile Stephan

,
Éric Vyncke
.

,
, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9115

ACME Delegation

September 2021

This work is partially supported by the European Commission under Horizon 2020 grant
agreement no. 688421 Measurement and Architecture for a Middleboxed Internet (MAMI). This
support does not imply endorsement.

Authors' Addresses

Yaron Sheﬀer
Intuit
Email:

 yaronf.ietf@gmail.com

Diego López
Telefonica I+D
Email:

 diego.r.lopez@telefonica.com

Antonio Agustín Pastor Perales
Telefonica I+D
Email:

 antonio.pastorperales@telefonica.com

Thomas Fossati
ARM
Email:

 thomas.fossati@arm.com

Sheﬀer, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

