Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9606
Standards Track
June 2024
2070-1721
T. Reddy.K
Nokia

M. Boucadair
Orange

RFC 9606
DNS Resolver Information

Abstract

This document specifies a method for DNS resolvers to publish information about themselves.
DNS clients can use the resolver information to identify the capabilities of DNS resolvers. How
DNS clients use such information is beyond the scope of this document.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9606
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Reddy.K & Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9606

DNS Resolver Information

June 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Retrieving Resolver Information

4.  Format of the Resolver Information

5.  Resolver Information Keys/Values

6.  An Example

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  RESINFO RR Type

8.2.  DNS Resolver Information Keys Registration

8.3.  Guidelines for the Designated Experts

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

5

6

6

6

7

7

8

8

8

9

10

Historically, DNS clients communicated with recursive resolvers without needing to know
anything about the features supported by these resolvers. However, more and more recursive
resolvers expose different features that may impact delivered DNS services (privacy
preservation, filtering, transparent behavior, etc.). DNS clients can discover and authenticate
encrypted DNS resolvers provided by a local network, for example, using the Discovery of
Network-designated Resolvers (DNR)
[RFC9462]
. However, these DNS clients can't retrieve information from the discovered recursive
resolvers about their capabilities to feed the resolver selection process. Instead of depending on
opportunistic approaches, DNS clients need a more reliable mechanism to discover the features
that are configured on these resolvers.

 and the Discovery of Designated Resolvers (DDR)

[RFC9463]

Reddy.K & Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9606

DNS Resolver Information

June 2024

This document fills that void by specifying a mechanism that allows communication of DNS
resolver information to DNS clients for use in resolver selection decisions. For example, the
resolver selection procedure may use the retrieved resolver information to prioritize privacy-
preserving resolvers over those that don't enable QNAME minimisation
example is when a DNS client selects a resolver based on its filtering capability. For instance, a
DNS client can choose a resolver that filters domains according to a security policy using the
Blocked (15) Extended DNS Error (EDE)
to select a resolver that forges responses using the Forged Answer (4) EDE. However, it is out of
the scope of this document to define the selection procedure and policies. Once a resolver is
selected by a DNS client, and unless explicitly mentioned, this document does not interfere with
that resolver's DNS operations.

. Alternatively, the client may have a policy not

[RFC8914]

[RFC9156]

. Another

Specifically, this document defines a new resource record (RR) type for DNS clients to query the
recursive resolvers. The initial information that a resolver might want to expose is defined in
Section 5. That information is scoped to cover properties that are used to infer privacy and
transparency policies of a resolver. Other information can be registered in the future per the
guidance in Section 8.2. The information is not intended for end-user consumption.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document makes use of the terms defined in
used:

[RFC9499]

. The following additional terms are

Encrypted DNS:

Refers to a DNS scheme where DNS exchanges are transported over an

encrypted channel between a DNS client and server (e.g., DNS over HTTPS (DoH)
DNS over TLS (DoT)

, or DNS over QUIC (DoQ)

[RFC9250]

[RFC7858]

).

[RFC8484]
,

Encrypted DNS resolver:

Refers to a DNS resolver that supports any encrypted DNS scheme.

Reputation:

Defined as "the estimation in which an identifiable actor is held, especially by the

community or the Internet public generally" per

Section 1 of [RFC7070]

.

3.  Retrieving Resolver Information

A DNS client that wants to retrieve the resolver information may use the RR type "RESINFO"
defined in this document. The content of the RDATA in a response to a query for RESINFO RR
QTYPE is defined in Section 5. If the resolver understands the RESINFO RR type, the RRset
have exactly one record. Invalid records
property of the resolver and is not subject to recursive resolution.

MUST
 be silently ignored by DNS clients. RESINFO is a

MUST

Reddy.K & Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9606

DNS Resolver Information

June 2024

A DNS client can retrieve the resolver information using the RESINFO RR type and the QNAME of
the domain name that is used to authenticate the DNS resolver (referred to as the Authentication
Domain Name (ADN) in DNR

[RFC9463]

).

If the Special-Use Domain Name "resolver.arpa", defined in
encrypted DNS resolver, the client can retrieve the resolver information using the RESINFO RR
type and QNAME of "resolver.arpa". In this case, a client has to contend with the risk that a
resolver does not support RESINFO. The resolver might pass the query upstream, and then the
client can receive a positive RESINFO response from either a legitimate DNS resolver or an
attacker.

, is used to discover an

[RFC9462]

MUST

The DNS client
discard the response if the AA flag in the response is set to 0, indicating that the DNS resolver is
not authoritative for the response.

 set the Recursion Desired (RD) bit of the query to 0. The DNS client

MUST

If a group of resolvers is sharing the same ADN and/or anycast address, then these instances
SHOULD

 expose a consistent RESINFO.

4.  Format of the Resolver Information

The resolver information record uses the same format as DNS TXT records. The format rules for
TXT records are defined in the base DNS specification (
further elaborated in the DNS-based Service Discovery (DNS-SD) specification (
[RFC6763]
). The recommendations to limit the TXT record size are discussed in
[RFC6763]
.

) and are
Section 6.1 of
Section 6.1 of

Section 3.3.14 of [RFC1035]

Similar to DNS-SD, the RESINFO RR type uses "key/value" pairs to convey the resolver
information. Each key/value pair is encoded using the format rules defined in
[RFC6763]
future keys to be defined. If a DNS client sees unknown keys in a RESINFO RR type, it
silently ignore them. The same rules for the keys, as defined in
followed for RESINFO.

. Using standardized key/value syntax within the RESINFO RR type makes it easier for

Section 6.4 of [RFC6763] MUST

Section 6.3 of

MUST
,

 be

Resolver information keys
MUST
the substring "temp-" for names defined for local use only.

 either be defined in the IANA registry (Section 8.2) or begin with

5.  Resolver Information Keys/Values

The following resolver information keys are defined:

qnamemin:

The presence of this key indicates that the DNS resolver supports QNAME

[RFC9156]

minimisation
in
identified as being present, with no value.

Section 6.4 of [RFC6763]

 to improve DNS privacy. Note that, per the rules for the keys defined

, if there is no '=' in a key, then it is a boolean attribute, simply

Reddy.K & Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9606

DNS Resolver Information

June 2024

The presence of this key indicates that the DNS resolver is configured to minimise the amount
of privacy-sensitive data sent to an authoritative name server.

This is an optional attribute.

exterr:

If the DNS resolver supports the EDE option defined in

 to return additional
information about the cause of DNS errors, the value of this key lists the possible EDE codes
that can be returned by this DNS resolver. A value can be an individual EDE or a range of
EDEs. Range values
present, these values

 be identified by "-". When multiple non-contiguous values are

 be comma-separated.

[RFC8914]

MUST

MUST

Returned EDEs (e.g., Blocked (15), Censored (16), and Filtered (17)) indicate whether the DNS
resolver is configured to reveal the reason why a query was filtered/blocked when such an
event happens. If the resolver's capabilities are updated to include new similar error codes,
the resolver can terminate the TLS session, prompting the client to initiate a new TLS
connection and retrieve the resolver information again. This allows the client to become
aware of the resolver's updated capabilities. Alternatively, if the client receives an EDE for a
DNS request, but that EDE was not listed in the "exterr", the client can query the resolver
again to learn about the updated resolver's capabilities to return new error codes. If a
mismatch still exists, the client can identify that the resolver information is inaccurate and
discard it.

This is an optional attribute.

infourl:

A URL that points to the generic unstructured resolver information (e.g., DoH APIs

supported, possible HTTP status codes returned by the DoH server, or how to report a
problem) for troubleshooting purposes. The server that exposes such information is called
"resolver information server".

The resolver information server
MUST
resolver information. The DNS client
"https". Invalid URLs
information for IT staff. It is not intended for end-user consumption as the URL can possibly
provide misleading information.

 support only the content-type "text/html" for the
 reject the URL as invalid if the scheme is not
MUST

 be treated only as diagnostic

 be ignored. The URL

MUST

MUST

This key can be used by IT staff to retrieve other useful information about the resolver and
also the procedure to report problems (e.g., invalid filtering).

This is an optional attribute.

New keys can be defined as per the procedure defined in Section 8.2.

6.  An Example

Figure 1 shows an example of a published resolver information record.

Reddy.K & Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9606

DNS Resolver Information

June 2024

resolver.example.net. 7200 IN RESINFO qnamemin exterr=15-17
                      infourl=https://resolver.example.com/guide

Figure 1: An Example of a Resolver Information Record

As mentioned in Section 3, a DNS client that discovers the ADN "resolver.example.net" of its
resolver using DNR will issue a query for RESINFO RR QTYPE for that ADN and will learn that:

•

the resolver enables QNAME minimisation,

•

the resolver can return Blocked (15), Censored (16), and Filtered (17) EDEs, and

•

more information can be retrieved from "https://resolver.example.com/guide".

7.  Security Considerations

DNS clients communicating with discovered DNS resolvers
measures to prevent DNS response forgery attacks:

MUST

 use one of the following

1.

Establish an authenticated secure connection to the DNS resolver.

2.

Implement local DNSSEC validation (
resolver information.

Section 10 of [RFC9499]

) to verify the authenticity of the

It is important to note that, of these two measures, only the first one can apply to queries for
"resolver.arpa".

An encrypted resolver may return incorrect information in RESINFO. If the client cannot validate
the attributes received from the resolver, which will be used for resolver selection or displayed
to the end user, the client should process those attributes only if the encrypted resolver has
sufficient reputation according to local policy (e.g., user configuration, administrative
configuration, or a built-in list of reputable resolvers). This approach limits the ability of a
malicious encrypted resolver to cause harm with false claims.

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  RESINFO RR Type

IANA has updated the "Resource Record (RR) TYPEs" registry under the "Domain Name System
(DNS) Parameters" registry group

 as follows:

[RRTYPE]

RESINFO
261

Type:
Value:
Meaning:
Reference:

Resolver Information as Key/Value Pairs

RFC 9606

Reddy.K & Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9606

DNS Resolver Information

June 2024

8.2.  DNS Resolver Information Keys Registration

IANA has created a new registry called "DNS Resolver Information Keys" under the "Domain
Name System (DNS) Parameters" registry group
definitions of the keys that can be used to provide the resolver information.

. This new registry contains

[IANA-DNS]

The registration procedure is Specification Required (
experts should carefully consider the security implications of allowing a resolver to include new
keys in this registry. Additional considerations are provided in Section 8.3.

Section 4.6 of [RFC8126]

). Designated

The structure of the registry is as follows:

Name:

The key name. The name

The IANA registry
be used freely by any implementer.

MUST NOT

MUST

 conform to the definition in Section 4 of this document.
 register names that begin with "temp-" so that these names can

Description:

A description of the registered key.

Reference:

The reference specification for the registered element.

The initial contents of this registry are provided in Table 1.

Name

Description

qnamemin

The presence of the key name indicates that QNAME
minimisation is enabled.

exterr

Lists the set of enabled extended DNS errors. It must be an INFO-
CODE decimal value in the "Extended DNS Error Codes" registry
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/dns-parameters/>

.

Reference

RFC 9606

RFC 9606

infourl

Provides a URL that points to unstructured resolver information
that is used for troubleshooting.

RFC 9606

Table 1: Initial Contents of the DNS Resolver Information Keys Registry

8.3.  Guidelines for the Designated Experts

It is suggested that multiple designated experts be appointed for registry change requests.

Criteria that should be applied by the designated experts include determining whether the
proposed registration duplicates existing entries and whether the registration description is clear
and fits the purpose of this registry.

Registration requests are evaluated within a two-week review period on the advice of one or
more designated experts. Within the review period, the designated experts will either approve or
deny the registration request, communicating this decision to IANA. Denials should include an
explanation and, if applicable, suggestions as to how to make the request successful.

Reddy.K & Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9606

DNS Resolver Information

June 2024

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC6763]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8914]

[RFC9156]

[RFC9462]

[RFC9463]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and specification" STD 13
,
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Cheshire, S.
10.17487/RFC6763

 and

M. Krochmal "DNS-Based Service Discovery" RFC 6763 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6763>
.

, February 2013,

,

,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Kumari, W. Hunt, E. Arends, R. Hardaker, W.
,
Errors" RFC 8914 DOI 10.17487/RFC8914
editor.org/info/rfc8914>

,

,

,

.

, and
, October 2020,

,
D. Lawrence "Extended DNS
<https://www.rfc-

,

Bortzmeyer, S. Dolmans, R.
Improve Privacy" RFC 9156 DOI 10.17487/RFC9156
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9156>

, and
,

,

,

.

P. Hoffman "DNS Query Name Minimisation to

, November 2021,

<https://

,

Pauly, T. Kinnear, E. Wood, C. A. McManus, P.
Designated Resolvers" RFC 9462 DOI 10.17487/RFC9462
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9462>

, and

,
,

,

.

T. Jensen "Discovery of
, November 2023,

,

,

Boucadair, M., Ed. Reddy.K, T., Ed. Wing, D. Cook, N.
Router Advertisement Options for the Discovery of Network-designated
Resolvers (DNR)" RFC 9463 DOI 10.17487/RFC9463
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9463>

, November 2023,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://

T. Jensen "DHCP and

,

9.2.  Informative References

[IANA-DNS]

[RESINFO]

,

IANA "Domain Name System (DNS) Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/dns-parameters/>

,

.

P. Hoffman "DNS Resolver Information Self-publication" Work in

,

 and
,

Sood, P.
,
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-pp-add-resinfo-02
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-pp-add-resinfo-02>

.

, 27 June 2020,

<https://

Reddy.K & Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9606

DNS Resolver Information

June 2024

[RFC7070]

[RFC7858]

[RFC8484]

[RFC9250]

[RFC9499]

[RRTYPE]

Borenstein, N.
 and
RFC 7070 DOI 10.17487/RFC7070
info/rfc7070>

,

.

M. Kucherawy "An Architecture for Reputation Reporting"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,
, November 2013,

,

,

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.
"Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

P. Hoffman

, and

,

,

,

.

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC8484

 and

P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

Huitema, C. Dickinson, S.
,
Connections" RFC 9250 DOI 10.17487/RFC9250
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9250>
.

, and

A. Mankin "DNS over Dedicated QUIC

,

, May 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC9499

 and

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC 9499 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9499>

, March 2024,

,

,

,

,

.

IANA "Resource Record (RR) TYPEs" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/dns-
,
parameters/>

,

.

Acknowledgments

This specification leverages the work that has been documented in

[RESINFO]
.

Thanks to
,
Daniel Kahn Gillmor Eric Rescorla Shashank Jain Florian Obser Richard Baldry
Thomson

Tommy Jensen Vittorio Bertola Vinny Parla Chris Box Ben Schwartz Tony Finch
,

 for the discussion and comments.

,
Martin

, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

Thanks to
formatting rules.

Mark Andrews Joe Abley Paul Wouters

,

,

, and

Tim Wicinski

 for the discussion on RR

Special thanks to

Tommy Jensen

 for the careful and thoughtful Shepherd review.

Thanks to
allocation review,
review.

Johan Stenstam

 and

Jim Reid

 for the dns-dir reviews,

 for the RRTYPE

Arnt Gulbrandsen

 for the ART review, and

 for the gen-art

Ray Bellis
Mallory Knodel

Thanks to

Éric Vyncke

 for the AD review.

Thanks to
Danyliw

, and

Murray Kucherawy

 for the IESG review.

Gunter Van de Velde Erik Kline Paul Wouters Orie Steele Warren Kumari Roman

,

,

,

,

,

Reddy.K & Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9606

DNS Resolver Information

June 2024

Authors' Addresses

Tirumaleswar Reddy.K
Nokia
India
Email:

 kondtir@gmail.com

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
35000 Rennes
France
Email:

 mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Reddy.K & Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 10

