Stream:
RFC:
STD:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9083
95
7483
Standards Track
June 2021
2070-1721
S. Hollenbeck
Verisign Labs

A. Newton
AWS

RFC 9083
JSON Responses for the Registration Data Access
Protocol (RDAP)

Abstract

This document describes JSON data structures representing registration information maintained
by Regional Internet Registries (RIRs) and Domain Name Registries (DNRs). These data structures
are used to form Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) query responses. This document
obsoletes RFC 7483.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9083

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology and Deﬁnitions

1.2.  Data Model

2.  Use of JSON

2.1.  Naming

3.  Common Data Types

4.  Common Data Structures

4.1.  RDAP Conformance

4.2.  Links

4.3.  Notices and Remarks

4.4.  Language Identiﬁer

4.5.  Events

4.6.  Status

4.7.  Port 43 WHOIS Server

4.8.  Public IDs

4.9.  Object Class Name

4.10. An Example

5.  Object Classes

5.1.  The Entity Object Class

5.2.  The Nameserver Object Class

5.3.  The Domain Object Class

5.4.  The IP Network Object Class

5.5.  The Autonomous System Number Object Class

6.  Error Response Body

7.  Responding to Help Queries

8.  Responding To Searches

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

9.  Indicating Truncated Responses

10. IANA Considerations

10.1.  RDAP JSON Media Type Registration

10.2.  JSON Values Registry

10.2.1.  Notice and Remark Types

10.2.2.  Status

10.2.3.  Event Actions

10.2.4.  Roles

10.2.5.  Variant Relations

11. Security Considerations

12. Internationalization Considerations

12.1.  Character Encoding

12.2.  URIs and IRIs

12.3.  Language Tags

12.4.  Internationalized Domain Names

13. Privacy Considerations

14. References

14.1.  Normative References

14.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Suggested Data Modeling with the Entity Object Class

A.1.  Registrants and Contacts

A.2.  Registrars

Appendix B.  Modeling Events

Appendix C.  Structured vs. Unstructured Addresses

Appendix D.  Secure DNS

Appendix E.  Motivations for Using JSON

Appendix F.  Changes from RFC 7483

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

1.  Introduction

This document describes responses in the JSON
the Registration Data Access Protocol Query Format
exchanging queries and responses is described in

 format for the queries as deﬁned by
. A communication protocol for
. This document obsoletes RFC 7483.

[RFC9082]

[RFC7480]

[RFC8259]

1.1.  Terminology and Deﬁnitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The following list describes terminology and deﬁnitions used throughout this document:

DNR:

Domain Name Registry or Domain Name Registrar

LDH:

letters, digits, hyphen

member:

data found within an object as deﬁned by JSON

[RFC8259]

object:

a data structure as deﬁned by JSON

[RFC8259]

object class:
document

the deﬁnition of members that may be found in JSON objects described in this

object instance:

an instantiation or speciﬁc instance of an object class

RDAP:

Registration Data Access Protocol

RIR:

Regional Internet Registry

1.2.  Data Model

The data model for JSON responses is speciﬁed in ﬁve sections:

1.

simple data types conveyed in JSON primitive types (strings, numbers, booleans, and null)

2.

data structures speciﬁed as JSON arrays or objects that are used repeatedly when building
up larger objects

3.

object classes representing structured data corresponding to a lookup of a single object

4.

arrays of objects representing structured data corresponding to a search for multiple objects

5.

the response to an error

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The object classes represent responses for two major categories of data: responses returned by
RIRs for registration data related to IP addresses, reverse DNS names, and Autonomous System
numbers and responses returned by DNRs for registration data related to forward DNS names.
The following object classes are returned by both RIRs and DNRs:

1.

domains

2.

nameservers

3.

entities

The information served by both RIRs and DNRs for these object classes overlap extensively and
are given in this document as a uniﬁed model for both classes of service.

In addition to the object classes listed above, RIRs also serve the following object classes:

1.

IP networks

2.

Autonomous System numbers

Object classes deﬁned in this document represent a minimal set of what a compliant client/server
needs to understand to function correctly; however, some deployments may want to include
additional object classes to suit individual needs. Anticipating this need for extension, Section 2.1
of this document deﬁnes a mechanism for extending the JSON objects that are described in this
document.

Positive responses take two forms. A response to a lookup of a single object in the registration
system yields a JSON object, which is the subject of the lookup. A response to a search for
multiple objects yields a JSON object that contains an array of JSON objects that are the subject of
the search. In each type of response, other data structures are present within the topmost JSON
object.

2.  Use of JSON

2.1.  Naming

SHOULD

SHOULD

 ignore unrecognized JSON members in responses.

 have member names preﬁxed with a short identiﬁer

Clients of these JSON responses
Servers can insert members into the JSON responses, which are not speciﬁed in this document,
but that does not constitute an error in the response. Servers that insert such unspeciﬁed
members into JSON responses
followed by an underscore followed by a meaningful name. It has been observed that these short
identiﬁers aid software implementers with identifying the speciﬁcation of the JSON member, and
failure to use one could cause an implementer to assume the server is erroneously using a name
from this speciﬁcation. This allowance does not apply to jCard
name (the preﬁx plus the underscore plus the meaningful name)
character and name limitations of the preﬁx registry described in
limitations could result in slower adoption as these limitations have been observed to aid some
client programming models.

 objects. The full JSON
 adhere to the

[RFC7095]
SHOULD
[RFC7480]

. Failure to use these

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

Consider the following JSON response with JSON members, all of which are speciﬁed in this
document.

{
  "handle" : "ABC123",
  "remarks" :
  [
    {
      "description" :
      [
        "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
        "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 1

If The Registry of the Moon desires to express information not found in this speciﬁcation, it
might select "lunarNIC" as its identifying preﬁx and insert, as an example, the member named
"lunarNIC_beforeOneSmallStep" to signify registrations occurring before the ﬁrst moon landing
and the member named "lunarNIC_harshMistressNotes" that contains other descriptive text.

Consider the following JSON response with JSON names, some of which should be ignored by
clients without knowledge of their meaning.

{
  "handle" : "ABC123",
  "lunarNIC_beforeOneSmallStep" : "TRUE THAT!",
  "remarks" :
  [
    {
      "description" :
      [
        "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
        "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
      ]
    }
  ],
  "lunarNIC_harshMistressNotes" :
  [
    "In space,",
    "nobody can hear you scream."
  ]
}

Figure 2

Insertion of unrecognized members ignored by clients may also be used for future revisions to
this speciﬁcation.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

Clients processing JSON responses need to be prepared for members representing registration
data speciﬁed in this document to be absent from a response. In other words, servers are free to
omit unrequired/optional JSON members containing registration data based on their own
policies.

Finally, all JSON names speciﬁed in this document are case sensitive. Both servers and clients
MUST

 transmit and process them using the speciﬁed character case.

3.  Common Data Types

[RFC8259]

JSON
 deﬁnes the data types of a number, character string, boolean, array, object, and
null. This section describes the semantics and/or syntax reference for common, JSON character
strings used in this document.

handle:

DNRs and RIRs have registry-unique identiﬁers that may be used to
speciﬁcally reference an object instance. The semantics of this data type as
found in this document are to be a registry-unique reference to the closest
enclosing object where the value is found. The data type names "registryId",
"roid", "nic-handle", "registrationNo", etc., are terms often synonymous with
this data type. In this document, the term "handle" is used. The term exposed
to users by clients is a presentation issue beyond the scope of this document.
This value is a simple character string.

IPv4 addresses:

The representation of IPv4 addresses in this document uses the dotted-
decimal notation. An example of this textual representation is "192.0.2.0".

IPv6 addresses:

country codes:

The representation of IPv6 addresses in this document follow the forms
outlined in
"2001:db8::1:0:0:1".

. An example of this textual representation is

[RFC5952]

Where the identity of a geopolitical nation or country is needed, these
identities are represented with the alpha-2 or two-character country code
designation as deﬁned in
because it is freely available, whereas the alpha-3 and numeric-3 standards
are not.

. The alpha-2 representation is used

[ISO.3166.2020]

LDH names:

Textual representations of DNS names where the labels of the domain are all
"letters, digits, hyphen" labels as described by
. Trailing periods are
optional.

[RFC5890]

Unicode names:

Textual representations of DNS names where one or more of the labels are U-
labels as described by

. Trailing periods are optional.

[RFC5890]

dates and times:

The syntax for values denoting dates and times is deﬁned in

[RFC3339]

.

URIs:

The syntax for values denoting a Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI) is deﬁned
by

[RFC3986]

.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

Contact information is deﬁned using jCards as described in
required and
when the contact name does not exist or is redacted.

 be null according to

[RFC6350]

MUST NOT

[RFC7095]

. The "fn" member is

. An empty "fn" member

MAY

 be used

4.  Common Data Structures

This section deﬁnes common data structures used in responses and object classes.

4.1.  RDAP Conformance

The data structure named "rdapConformance" is an array of strings, each providing a hint as to
the speciﬁcations used in the construction of the response. This data structure
the topmost JSON object of a response and
 appear anywhere else. A response to a
"help" request will include identiﬁers for all of the speciﬁcations supported by the server. A
response to any other request will include only identiﬁers for the speciﬁcations used in the
construction of the response. The set of returned identiﬁers
authorization level of the client.

 vary depending on the

 appear in

MUST NOT

MUST

MAY

An example rdapConformance data structure:

"rdapConformance" :
[
  "rdap_level_0"
]

Figure 3

The string literal "rdap_level_0" signiﬁes conformance with this speciﬁcation. When custom JSON
values are inserted into responses, conformance to those custom speciﬁcations
indicated by including a unique string literal value registered in the IANA RDAP Extensions
. For example, if the ﬁctional Registry of the Moon wants to signify
registry speciﬁed in
that their JSON responses are conformant with their registered extensions, the string used might
be "lunarNIC_level_0". These registered values aid the identiﬁcation of speciﬁcations for software
implementers, and failure to use them could result in slower adoption of extensions.

[RFC7480]

MUST

 be

Example rdapConformance structure with custom extensions noted:

"rdapConformance" :
[
  "rdap_level_0",
  "lunarNIC_level_0"
]

Figure 4

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

4.2.  Links

The "links" array is found in data structures to signify links to other resources on the Internet.
The relationship of these links is deﬁned by the IANA registry described by

[RFC8288]
.

The following is an example of the link structure:

    {
      "value" : "https://example.com/context_uri",
      "rel" : "self",
      "href" : "https://example.com/target_uri",
      "hreflang" : [ "en", "ch" ],
      "title" : "title",
      "media" : "screen",
      "type" : "application/json"
    }

Figure 5

. The "value" JSON value is the context URI as described by

Section 3 of [RFC8288]
. The "value", "rel", and "href" JSON values
. A "related" link relation

The JSON name/values of "rel", "href", "hreﬂang", "title", "media", and "type" correspond to values
found in
[RFC8288]
OPTIONAL
link relation "href" URI to reduce the risk of inﬁnite client processing loops. Internationalized
Domain Names (IDNs) returned in URIs
allow clients to process these IDNs according to their capabilities.

 be speciﬁed. All other JSON values are
 include an "href" URI that is the same as the "self"

 be consistently returned in LDH name format to

MUST NOT

SHOULD

MUST

This is an example of the "links" array as it might be found in an object class:

    "links" :
    [
        {
          "value" : "https://example.com/ip/2001:db8::123",
          "rel" : "self",
          "href" : "https://example.com/ip/2001:db8::123",
          "type" : "application/rdap+json"
        },
        {
          "value" : "https://example.com/ip/2001:db8::123",
          "rel" : "up",
          "href" : "https://example.com/ip/2001:db8::/48",
          "type" : "application/rdap+json"
        }

    ]

Figure 6

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

4.3.  Notices and Remarks

The "notices" and "remarks" data structures take the same form. The notices structure denotes
information about the service providing RDAP information and/or information about the entire
response, whereas the remarks structure denotes information about the object class that
contains it (see Section 5 regarding object classes).

Both are arrays of objects. Each object contains a "title" string representing the title of the object,
a "type" string denoting a registered type of remark or notice (see Section 10.2.1), an array of
strings named "description" for the purposes of conveying any descriptive text, and a "links"
array as described in Section 4.2. The "description" array
are

 be included. All other JSON values

OPTIONAL

MUST

.

An example of the notices data structure:

"notices" :
[
  {
    "title" : "Terms of Use",
    "description" :
    [
      "Service subject to The Registry of the Moon's TOS.",
      "Copyright (c) 2020 LunarNIC"
    ],
    "links" :
    [
      {
        "value" : "https://example.net/entity/XXXX",
        "rel" : "alternate",
        "type" : "text/html",
        "href" : "https://www.example.com/terms_of_use.html"
      }
    ]
  }
]

Figure 7

It is the job of the clients to determine line breaks, spacing, and display issues for sentences
within the character strings of the "description" array. Each string in the "description" array
contains a single complete division of human-readable text indicating to clients where there are
semantic breaks.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

An example of the remarks data structure:

"remarks" :
[
  {
    "description" :
    [
      "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
      "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
    ]
  }
]

Figure 8

Note that objects in the "remarks" array may also have a "links" array.

While the "title" and "description" ﬁelds are intended primarily for human consumption, the
"type" string contains a well-known value to be registered with IANA (see Section 10.2.1) for
programmatic use.

An example of the remarks data structure:

"remarks" :
[
  {
    "type" : "object truncated due to authorization",
    "description" :
    [
      "Some registration data may not have been given.",
      "Use proper authorization credentials to see all of it."
    ]
  }
]

Figure 9

While the "remarks" array will appear in many object classes in a response, the "notices" array
appears only in the topmost object of a response.

4.4.  Language Identiﬁer

This data structure consists solely of a name/value pair, where the name is "lang" and the value
is a string containing a language identiﬁer as described in

[RFC5646]

.

"lang" : "mn-Cyrl-MN"

Figure 10

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The "lang" attribute as deﬁned in this section
structure, except for in jCard objects. vCard supports similar functionality by way of the
LANGUAGE property parameter (see Section 5.1 of RFC 6350

 appear anywhere in an object class or data

[RFC6350]

MAY

).

4.5.  Events

This data structure represents events that have occurred on an instance of an object class (see
Section 5 regarding object classes).

This is an example of an "events" array.

"events" :
[
  {
    "eventAction" : "registration",
    "eventActor" : "SOMEID-LUNARNIC",
    "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
  },
  {
    "eventAction" : "last changed",
    "eventActor" : "OTHERID-LUNARNIC",
    "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z"
  }
]

Figure 11

The "events" array consists of objects, each with the following members:

•

"eventAction" -- a

REQUIRED

 string denoting the reason for the event

•

"eventActor" -- an

OPTIONAL

 identiﬁer denoting the actor responsible for the event

•

"eventDate" -- a

REQUIRED

 string containing the time and date the event occurred

•

"links" --

OPTIONAL

; see Section 4.2

Events can be future dated. One use case for future dating of events is to denote when an object
expires from a registry.

The "links" array in this data structure is provided for references to the event actor. In order to
reference an RDAP entity, a "rel" of "related" and a "type" of "application/rdap+json" is used in the
link reference.

See Section 10.2.3 for a list of values for the "eventAction" string. See Appendix B regarding the
various ways events can be modeled.

4.6.  Status

This data structure, named "status", is an array of strings indicating the state of a registered
object (see Section 10.2.2 for a list of values).

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

4.7.  Port 43 WHOIS Server

This data structure, a member named "port43", is a simple character string containing the fully
 server where the containing object
qualiﬁed host name or IP address of the WHOIS
instance may be found. Note that this is not a URI, as there is no WHOIS URI scheme.

[RFC3912]

4.8.  Public IDs

This data structure maps a public identiﬁer to an object class. It is named "publicIds" and is an
array of objects, with each object containing the following

 members:

REQUIRED

•

type -- a string denoting the type of public identiﬁer

•

identiﬁer -- a string denoting a public identiﬁer of the type related to "type"

The following is an example of a publicIds structure.

"publicIds":
[
  {
    "type":"IANA Registrar ID",
    "identifier":"1"
  }
]

Figure 12

4.9.  Object Class Name

This data structure, a member named "objectClassName", gives the object class name of a
particular object as a string. This identiﬁes the type of object being processed. An
objectClassName is
interpreted.

 in all RDAP response objects so that the type of the object can be

REQUIRED

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

4.10.  An Example

This is an example response with both rdapConformance and notices embedded:

{
  "rdapConformance" :
  [
    "rdap_level_0"
  ],
  "notices" :
  [
    {
      "title" : "Content Removed",
      "description" :
      [
        "Without full authorization, content has been removed.",
        "Sorry, dude!"
      ],
      "links" :
      [
        {
          "value" : "https://example.net/ip/192.0.2.0/24",
          "rel" : "alternate",
          "type" : "text/html",
          "href" : "https://www.example.com/redaction_policy.html"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "lang" : "en",
  "objectClassName" : "ip network",
  "startAddress" : "192.0.2.0",
  "endAddress" : "192.0.2.255",
  "handle" : "XXXX-RIR",
  "ipVersion" : "v4",
  "name": "NET-RTR-1",
  "parentHandle" : "YYYY-RIR",
  "remarks" :
  [

    {
      "description" :
      [
        "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
        "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 13

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

5.  Object Classes

Object classes represent structures appropriate for a response from the queries speciﬁed in
[RFC9082]
.

 provide a link representing a URI for that object class instance using the "self"

Each object class contains a "links" array as speciﬁed in Section 4.2. For every object class
instance in a response, whether the object class instance is directly representing the response to
a query or is embedded in other object class instances or is an item in a search result set, servers
SHOULD
relationship as described in the IANA registry speciﬁed by
this may be not always be possible for nameserver data. Clients
instances without a self link. When present, clients can use the self link for caching data. Servers
 provide more than one self link for any given object instance. Failure to provide any self
MAY
link by a server may result in clients being unable to cache object class instances.

. As explained in Section 5.2,
 be able to process object

[RFC8288]
MUST

Clients using self links for caching
authority of the self link is diﬀerent than the authority of the server returning the data. Failing to
do so might result in cache poisoning.

 cache any object class instances where the

SHOULD NOT

Self links
referencing RDAP object instances as deﬁned by this document.

MUST

 contain a "type" element containing the "application/rdap+json" media type when

This is an example of the "links" array with a self link to an object class:

    "links" :
    [
        {
          "value" : "https://example.com/ip/2001:db8::123",
          "rel" : "self",
          "href" : "https://example.com/ip/2001:db8::123",
          "type" : "application/rdap+json"
        }
    ]

Figure 14

5.1.  The Entity Object Class

The entity object class appears throughout this document and is an appropriate response for the
/entity/XXXX query deﬁned in "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query Format"
[RFC9082]
. This object class represents the information of organizations, corporations,
governments, non-proﬁts, clubs, individual persons, and informal groups of people. All of these
representations are so similar that it is best to represent them in JSON
construct, the entity object class, to aid in the reuse of code by implementers.

[RFC8259]

 with one

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The entity object class uses jCard
addresses, email addresses, phone numbers and names of organizations and individuals. Many
of the types of information that can be represented with jCard have little or no use in RDAP, such
as birthdays, anniversaries, and gender.

 to represent contact information, such as postal

[RFC7095]

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The entity object is served by both RIRs and DNRs. The following is an example of an entity that
might be served by an RIR.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

{
  "objectClassName" : "entity",
  "handle":"XXXX",
  "vcardArray":[
    "vcard",
    [
      ["version", {}, "text", "4.0"],
      ["fn", {}, "text", "Joe User"],
      ["n", {}, "text",
        ["User", "Joe", "", "", ["ing. jr", "M.Sc."]]
      ],
      ["kind", {}, "text", "individual"],
      ["lang", {
        "pref":"1"
      }, "language-tag", "fr"],
      ["lang", {
        "pref":"2"
      }, "language-tag", "en"],
      ["org", {
        "type":"work"
      }, "text", "Example"],
      ["title", {}, "text", "Research Scientist"],
      ["role", {}, "text", "Project Lead"],
      ["adr",
        { "type":"work" },
        "text",
        [
          "",
          "Suite 1234",
          "4321 Rue Somewhere",
          "Quebec",
          "QC",
          "G1V 2M2",
          "Canada"
        ]
      ],
      ["adr",
        {
          "type":"home",
          "label":"123 Maple Ave\nSuite 90001\nVancouver\nBC\n1239\n"
        },
        "text",
        [
          "", "", "", "", "", "", ""
        ]
      ],
      ["tel",
        {
          "type":["work", "voice"],
          "pref":"1"
        },
        "uri",
        "tel:+1-555-555-1234;ext=102"
      ],
      ["tel",
        { "type":["work", "cell", "voice", "video", "text"] },
        "uri",

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

        "tel:+1-555-555-4321"
      ],
      ["email",
        { "type":"work" },
        "text",
        "joe.user@example.com"
      ],
      ["geo", {
        "type":"work"
      }, "uri", "geo:46.772673,-71.282945"],
      ["key",
        { "type":"work" },
        "uri",
        "https://www.example.com/joe.user/joe.asc"
      ],
      ["tz", {},
        "utc-offset", "-05:00"],
      ["url", { "type":"home" },
        "uri", "https://example.org"]
    ]
  ],
  "roles":[ "registrar" ],
  "publicIds":[
    {
      "type":"IANA Registrar ID",
      "identifier":"1"
    }
  ],
  "remarks":[
    {
      "description":[
        "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
        "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
      ]
    }
  ],
  "links":[
    {
      "value":"https://example.com/entity/XXXX",
      "rel":"self",
      "href":"https://example.com/entity/XXXX",
      "type" : "application/rdap+json"
    }
  ],
  "events":[
    {
      "eventAction":"registration",
      "eventDate":"1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
    }
  ],
  "asEventActor":[

    {
      "eventAction":"last changed",
      "eventDate":"1991-12-31T23:59:59Z"
    }
  ]
}

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

Figure 15

The entity object class can contain the following members:

•

objectClassName -- the string "entity"

•

handle -- a string representing a registry-unique identiﬁer of the entity

•

vcardArray -- a jCard with the entity's contact information

•

roles -- an array of strings, each signifying the relationship an object would have with its
closest containing object (see Section 10.2.4 for a list of values)

•

publicIds -- see Section 4.8

•

entities -- an array of entity objects as deﬁned by this section

•

remarks -- see Section 4.3

•

links -- see Section 4.2

•

events -- see Section 4.5

•

asEventActor -- this data structure takes the same form as the events data structure (see
Section 4.5), but each object in the array
 have an "eventActor" member. These
objects denote that the entity is an event actor for the given events. See Appendix B
regarding the various ways events can be modeled.

MUST NOT

•

status -- see Section 4.6

•

port43 -- see Section 4.7

•

networks -- an array of IP network objects as deﬁned in Section 5.4

•

autnums -- an array of autnum objects as deﬁned in Section 5.5

Entities may also have other entities embedded with them in an array. This can be used to model
an organization with speciﬁc individuals fulﬁlling designated roles of responsibility.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an elided example of an entity with embedded entities.

{
  "objectClassName" : "entity",
  "handle" : "ANENTITY",
  "roles" : [ "registrar" ],
  ...
  "entities" :
  [
    {
      "objectClassName" : "entity",
      "handle": "ANEMBEDDEDENTITY",
      "roles" : [ "technical" ],
      ...
    },
    ...
  ],
  ...
}

Figure 16

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an example of an entity that might be served by a DNR.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

{
  "objectClassName" : "entity",
  "handle":"XXXX",
  "vcardArray":[
    "vcard",
    [
      ["version", {}, "text", "4.0"],
      ["fn", {}, "text", "Joe User"],
      ["kind", {}, "text", "individual"],
      ["lang", {
        "pref":"1"
      }, "language-tag", "fr"],
      ["lang", {
        "pref":"2"
      }, "language-tag", "en"],
      ["org", {
        "type":"work"
      }, "text", "Example"],
      ["title", {}, "text", "Research Scientist"],
      ["role", {}, "text", "Project Lead"],
      ["adr",
        { "type":"work" },
        "text",
        [
          "",
          "Suite 1234",
          "4321 Rue Somewhere",
          "Quebec",
          "QC",
          "G1V 2M2",
          "Canada"
        ]
      ],
      ["tel",
        { "type":["work", "voice"], "pref":"1" },
        "uri", "tel:+1-555-555-1234;ext=102"
      ],
      ["email",
        { "type":"work" },
        "text", "joe.user@example.com"
      ]
    ]
  ],
  "status":[ "validated", "locked" ],
  "remarks":[
    {
      "description":[
        "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
        "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
      ]
    }
  ],
  "links":[
    {
      "value":"https://example.com/entity/XXXX",
      "rel":"self",
      "href":"https://example.com/entity/XXXX",

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

      "type":"application/rdap+json"
    }
  ],
  "port43":"whois.example.net",
  "events":[
    {
      "eventAction":"registration",
      "eventDate":"1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
    },
    {
      "eventAction":"last changed",
      "eventDate":"1991-12-31T23:59:59Z",
      "eventActor":"joe@example.com"
    }
  ]
}

Figure 17

See Appendix A for use of the entity object class to model various types of entities found in both
RIRs and DNRs. See Appendix C regarding structured vs. unstructured postal addresses in
entities.

5.2.  The Nameserver Object Class

The nameserver object class represents information regarding DNS nameservers used in both
forward and reverse DNS. RIRs and some DNRs register or expose nameserver information as an
attribute of a domain name, while other DNRs model nameservers as "ﬁrst class objects". Please
note that some of the examples in this section include lines that have been wrapped for reading
clarity.

The nameserver object class accommodates both models and degrees of variation in between.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an example of a nameserver object.

  {
    "objectClassName" : "nameserver",
    "handle" : "XXXX",
    "ldhName" : "ns1.xn--fo-5ja.example",
    "unicodeName" : "ns.fóo.example",
    "status" : [ "active" ],
    "ipAddresses" :
    {
      "v4": [ "192.0.2.1", "192.0.2.2" ],
      "v6": [ "2001:db8::123" ]
    },
    "remarks" :
    [
      {
        "description" :
        [
          "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
          "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
        ]
      }
    ],
    "links" :
    [
      {
        "value" : "https://example.net/nameserver/
                   ns1.xn--fo-5ja.example",
        "rel" : "self",
        "href" : "https://example.net/nameserver/
                  ns1.xn--fo-5ja.example",
        "type" : "application/rdap+json"
      }
    ],
    "port43" : "whois.example.net",
    "events" :
    [
      {
        "eventAction" : "registration",
        "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
      },
      {
        "eventAction" : "last changed",
        "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z",
        "eventActor" : "joe@example.com"
      }
    ]
  }

Figure 18

Figure 18 is an example of a nameserver object with all appropriate values given. Registries
using a ﬁrst-class nameserver data model would embed this in domain objects as well as
allowing references to it with the "/nameserver" query type (all depending on the registry

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

operators policy). Other registries may pare back the information as needed. Figure 19 is an
example of a nameserver object as would be found in RIRs and some DNRs, while Figure 20 is an
example of a nameserver object as would be found in other DNRs.

The following is an example of the simplest nameserver object:

  {
    "objectClassName" : "nameserver",
    "ldhName" : "ns1.example.com"
  }

Figure 19

The following is an example of a simple nameserver object that might be commonly used by
DNRs:

  {
    "objectClassName" : "nameserver",
    "ldhName" : "ns1.example.com",
    "ipAddresses" : { "v6" : [ "2001:db8::123", "2001:db8::124" ] }
  }

Figure 20

As nameservers can be modeled by some registries to be ﬁrst-class objects, they may also have an
array of entities (Section 5.1) embedded to signify parties responsible for the maintenance,
registrations, etc., of the nameservers.

The following is an elided example of a nameserver with embedded entities.

{
  "objectClassName" : "nameserver",
  "handle" : "XXXX",
  "ldhName" : "ns.xn--fo-5ja.example",
  ...
  "entities" :
  [
    ...
  ],
  ...
}

Figure 21

The nameserver object class can contain the following members:

•

objectClassName -- the string "nameserver"

•

handle -- a string representing a registry-unique identiﬁer of the nameserver

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

•

ldhName -- a string containing the LDH name of the nameserver (see Section 3)

•

unicodeName -- a string containing a DNS Unicode name of the nameserver (see Section 3)

•

ipAddresses -- an object containing the following members:
◦

v6 -- an array of strings containing IPv6 addresses of the nameserver

◦

v4 -- an array of strings containing IPv4 addresses of the nameserver

•

entities -- an array of entity objects as deﬁned by Section 5.1

•

status -- see Section 4.6

•

remarks -- see Section 4.3

•

links -- see Section 4.2

•

port43 -- see Section 4.7

•

events -- see Section 4.5

5.3.  The Domain Object Class

The domain object class represents a DNS name and point of delegation. For RIRs, these
delegation points are in the reverse DNS tree, whereas for DNRs, these delegation points are in
the forward DNS tree.

In both cases, the high-level structure of the domain object class consists of information about
the domain registration, nameserver information related to the domain name, and entities
related to the domain name (e.g., registrant information, contacts, etc.).

The following is an elided example of the domain object showing the high-level structure:

{
  "objectClassName" : "domain",
  "handle" : "XXX",
  "ldhName" : "blah.example.com",
  ...
  "nameservers" :
  [
    ...
  ],
  ...
  "entities" :
  [
    ...
  ]
}

Figure 22

The domain object class can contain the following members:

•

objectClassName -- the string "domain"

•

handle -- a string representing a registry-unique identiﬁer of the domain object instance

•

ldhName -- a string describing a domain name in LDH form as described in Section 3

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

•

unicodeName -- a string containing a domain name with U-labels as described in Section 3

•

variants -- an array of objects, each containing the following values:
◦

relation -- an array of strings, with each string denoting the relationship between the
variants and the containing domain object (see Section 10.2.5 for a list of suggested variant
relations).

◦

◦

idnTable -- the character string literal that represents the Internationalized Domain Name
(IDN) table that has been registered in the IANA Repository of IDN Practices
[IANA_IDNTABLES]

.

variantNames -- an array of objects, with each object containing an "ldhName" member
and a "unicodeName" member (see Section 3).

•

nameservers -- an array of nameserver objects as deﬁned by Section 5.2

•

secureDNS -- an object with the following members:
◦

zoneSigned -- boolean true if the zone has been signed, false otherwise.

◦

◦

◦

delegationSigned -- boolean true if there are DS records in the parent, false otherwise.

maxSigLife -- an integer representing the signature lifetime in seconds to be used when
creating the RRSIG DS record in the parent zone

[RFC5910]

.

dsData -- an array of objects, each with the following members:
▪

keyTag -- an integer as speciﬁed by the key tag ﬁeld of a DNS DS record as speciﬁed by
[RFC4034]

 in presentation format

▪

▪

▪

▪

▪

algorithm -- an integer as speciﬁed by the algorithm ﬁeld of a DNS DS record as
described by RFC 4034 in presentation format

digest -- a string as speciﬁed by the digest ﬁeld of a DNS DS record as speciﬁed by RFC
4034 in presentation format

digestType -- an integer as speciﬁed by the digest type ﬁeld of a DNS DS record as
speciﬁed by RFC 4034 in presentation format

events -- see Section 4.5

links -- see Section 4.2

◦

keyData -- an array of objects, each with the following members:
▪

ﬂags -- an integer representing the ﬂags ﬁeld value in the DNSKEY record
presentation format

[RFC4034]

 in

▪

▪

▪

▪

▪

protocol -- an integer representation of the protocol ﬁeld value of the DNSKEY record
[RFC4034]

 in presentation format

publicKey -- a string representation of the public key in the DNSKEY record
presentation format

[RFC4034]

 in

algorithm -- an integer as speciﬁed by the algorithm ﬁeld of a DNSKEY record as
speciﬁed by

 in presentation format

[RFC4034]

events -- see Section 4.5

links -- see Section 4.2

See Appendix D for background information on these objects.

•

entities -- an array of entity objects as deﬁned by Section 5.1

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

•

status -- see Section 4.6

•

publicIds -- see Section 4.8

•

remarks -- see Section 4.3

•

links -- see Section 4.2

•

port43 -- see Section 4.7

•

events -- see Section 4.5

•

network -- represents the IP network for which a reverse DNS domain is referenced; see
Section 5.4

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an example of a JSON domain object representing a reverse DNS delegation
point that might be served by an RIR (note that the dsData digest value has been modiﬁed to ﬁt
on one line).

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

{
  "objectClassName" : "domain",
  "handle" : "XXXX",
  "ldhName" : "0.2.192.in-addr.arpa",
  "nameservers" :
  [
    {
      "objectClassName" : "nameserver",
      "ldhName" : "ns1.rir.example"
    },
    {
      "objectClassName" : "nameserver",
      "ldhName" : "ns2.rir.example"
    }
  ],
  "secureDNS":
  {
    "delegationSigned": true,
    "dsData":
    [
      {
        "keyTag": 25345,
        "algorithm": 8,
        "digestType": 2,
        "digest": "2788970E18EA14...C890C85B8205B94"
      }
    ]
  },
  "remarks" :
  [
    {
      "description" :
      [
        "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
        "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
      ]
    }
  ],
  "links" :
  [
    {
      "value": "https://example.net/domain/0.2.192.in-addr.arpa",
      "rel" : "self",
      "href" : "https://example.net/domain/0.2.192.in-addr.arpa",
      "type" : "application/rdap+json"

    }
  ],
  "events" :
  [
    {
      "eventAction" : "registration",
      "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
    },
    {
      "eventAction" : "last changed",
      "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z",

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

      "eventActor" : "joe@example.com"
    }
  ],
  "entities" :
  [
    {
      "objectClassName" : "entity",
      "handle" : "XXXX",
      "vcardArray":[
        "vcard",
        [
          ["version", {}, "text", "4.0"],
          ["fn", {}, "text", "Joe User"],
          ["kind", {}, "text", "individual"],
          ["lang", {
            "pref":"1"
          }, "language-tag", "fr"],
          ["lang", {
            "pref":"2"
          }, "language-tag", "en"],
          ["org", {
            "type":"work"
          }, "text", "Example"],
          ["title", {}, "text", "Research Scientist"],
          ["role", {}, "text", "Project Lead"],
          ["adr",
            { "type":"work" },
            "text",
            [
              "",
              "Suite 1234",
              "4321 Rue Somewhere",
              "Quebec",
              "QC",
              "G1V 2M2",
              "Canada"
            ]

          ],
          ["tel",
            { "type":["work", "voice"], "pref":"1" },
            "uri", "tel:+1-555-555-1234;ext=102"
          ],
          ["email",
            { "type":"work" },
            "text", "joe.user@example.com"
          ]
        ]
      ],
      "roles" : [ "registrant" ],
      "remarks" :
      [
        {
          "description" :
          [
            "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
            "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
          ]

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

        }
      ],
      "links" :
      [
        {
          "value": "https://example.net/entity/XXXX",
          "rel" : "self",
          "href" : "https://example.net/entity/XXXX",
          "type" : "application/rdap+json"
        }
      ],
      "events" :
      [
        {
          "eventAction" : "registration",
          "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        },
        {
          "eventAction" : "last changed",
          "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z",
          "eventActor" : "joe@example.com"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "network" :
  {
    "objectClassName" : "ip network",
    "handle" : "XXXX-RIR",
    "startAddress" : "192.0.2.0",
    "endAddress" : "192.0.2.255",
    "ipVersion" : "v4",
    "name": "NET-RTR-1",
    "type" : "DIRECT ALLOCATION",
    "country" : "AU",
    "parentHandle" : "YYYY-RIR",
    "status" : [ "active" ]
  }
}

Figure 23

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an example of a JSON domain object representing a forward DNS delegation
point that might be served by a DNR. Note that the secureDNS keyData publicKey value has been
modiﬁed to ﬁt on a single line.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

{
  "objectClassName" : "domain",
  "handle" : "XXXX",
  "ldhName" : "xn--fo-5ja.example",
  "unicodeName" : "fóo.example",
  "variants" :
  [
    {
      "relation" : [ "registered", "conjoined" ],
      "variantNames" :
      [
        {
          "ldhName" : "xn--fo-cka.example",
          "unicodeName" : "fõo.example"
        },
        {
          "ldhName" : "xn--fo-fka.example",
          "unicodeName" : "föo.example"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "relation" : [ "unregistered", "registration restricted" ],
      "idnTable": ".EXAMPLE Swedish",
      "variantNames" :
      [
        {
          "ldhName": "xn--fo-8ja.example",
          "unicodeName" : "fôo.example"
        }
      ]

    }
  ],
  "status" : [ "locked", "transfer prohibited" ],
  "publicIds":[
    {
      "type":"ENS_Auth ID",
      "identifier":"1234567890"
    }
  ],
  "nameservers" :
  [
    {
      "objectClassName" : "nameserver",
      "handle" : "XXXX",
      "ldhName" : "ns1.example.com",
      "status" : [ "active" ],
      "ipAddresses" :
      {
        "v6": [ "2001:db8::123", "2001:db8::124" ],
        "v4": [ "192.0.2.1", "192.0.2.2" ]
      },
      "remarks" :
      [
        {
          "description" :

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

          [
            "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
            "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
          ]
        }
      ],
      "links" :
      [
        {
          "value" : "https://example.net/nameserver/ns1.example.com",
          "rel" : "self",
          "href" : "https://example.net/nameserver/ns1.example.com",
          "type" : "application/rdap+json"
        }
      ],
      "events" :
      [
        {
          "eventAction" : "registration",
          "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        },
        {
          "eventAction" : "last changed",
          "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "objectClassName" : "nameserver",
      "handle" : "XXXX",
      "ldhName" : "ns2.example.com",
      "status" : [ "active" ],
      "ipAddresses" :
      {
        "v6" : [ "2001:db8::125", "2001:db8::126" ],
        "v4" : [ "192.0.2.3", "192.0.2.4" ]
      },
      "remarks" :
      [
        {
          "description" :
          [
            "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
            "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
          ]
        }
      ],
      "links" :
      [
        {
          "value" : "https://example.net/nameserver/ns2.example.com",
          "rel" : "self",
          "href" : "https://example.net/nameserver/ns2.example.com",
          "type" : "application/rdap+json"
        }
      ],
      "events" :
      [

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

        {
          "eventAction" : "registration",
          "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        },
        {
          "eventAction" : "last changed",
          "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "secureDNS":
  {

     "zoneSigned": true,
     "delegationSigned": true,
     "maxSigLife": 604800,
     "keyData":
     [
       {
         "flags": 257,
         "protocol": 3,
         "algorithm": 8,
         "publicKey": "AwEAAa6eDzronzjEDbT...Jg1M5N rBSPkuXpdFE=",
         "events":
         [
           {
             "eventAction": "last changed",
             "eventDate": "2012-07-23T05:15:47Z"
           }
         ]
       }
     ]
  },
  "remarks" :
  [
    {
      "description" :
      [
        "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
        "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
      ]
    }
  ],
  "links" :
  [
    {
      "value": "https://example.net/domain/xn--fo-5ja.example",
      "rel" : "self",
      "href" : "https://example.net/domain/xn--fo-5ja.example",
      "type" : "application/rdap+json"
    }
  ],
  "port43" : "whois.example.net",
  "events" :
  [
    {
      "eventAction" : "registration",

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

      "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
    },
    {
      "eventAction" : "last changed",
      "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z",
      "eventActor" : "joe@example.com"
    },
    {
      "eventAction" : "transfer",
      "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z",
      "eventActor" : "joe@example.com"
    },
    {
      "eventAction" : "expiration",
      "eventDate" : "2016-12-31T23:59:59Z",
      "eventActor" : "joe@example.com"
    }
  ],
  "entities" :
  [
    {
      "objectClassName" : "entity",
      "handle" : "XXXX",
      "vcardArray":[
        "vcard",
        [
          ["version", {}, "text", "4.0"],
          ["fn", {}, "text", "Joe User"],
          ["kind", {}, "text", "individual"],
          ["lang", {
            "pref":"1"
          }, "language-tag", "fr"],
          ["lang", {
            "pref":"2"
          }, "language-tag", "en"],
          ["org", {
            "type":"work"
          }, "text", "Example"],
          ["title", {}, "text", "Research Scientist"],
          ["role", {}, "text", "Project Lead"],
          ["adr",
            { "type":"work" },
            "text",
            [
              "",
              "Suite 1234",
              "4321 Rue Somewhere",
              "Quebec",
              "QC",
              "G1V 2M2",
              "Canada"
            ]

          ],
          ["tel",
            { "type":["work", "voice"], "pref":"1" },
            "uri", "tel:+1-555-555-1234;ext=102"
          ],

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

          ["email",
            { "type":"work" },
            "text", "joe.user@example.com"
          ]
        ]
      ],
      "status" : [ "validated", "locked" ],
      "roles" : [ "registrant" ],
      "remarks" :
      [
        {
          "description" :
          [
            "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
            "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
          ]
        }
      ],
      "links" :
      [
        {
          "value" : "https://example.net/entity/XXXX",
          "rel" : "self",
          "href" : "https://example.net/entity/XXXX",
          "type" : "application/rdap+json"
        }
      ],
      "events" :
      [
        {
          "eventAction" : "registration",
          "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        },
        {
          "eventAction" : "last changed",
          "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 24

5.4.  The IP Network Object Class

The IP network object class models IP network registrations found in RIRs and is the expected
response for the "/ip" query as deﬁned by
[RFC9082]
DNRs. The high- level structure of the IP network object class consists of information about the
network registration and entities related to the IP network (e.g., registrant information, contacts,
etc.).

. There is no equivalent object class for

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an elided example of the IP network object type showing the high-level
structure:

{
  "objectClassName" : "ip network",
  "handle" : "XXX",
  ...
  "entities" :
  [
    ...
  ]
}

Figure 25

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an example of the JSON object for the network registration information.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

{
  "objectClassName" : "ip network",
  "handle" : "XXXX-RIR",
  "startAddress" : "2001:db8::",
  "endAddress" : "2001:db8:0:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff",
  "ipVersion" : "v6",
  "name": "NET-RTR-1",
  "type" : "DIRECT ALLOCATION",
  "country" : "AU",
  "parentHandle" : "YYYY-RIR",
  "status" : [ "active" ],
  "remarks" :
  [
    {
      "description" :
      [
        "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
        "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
      ]
    }
  ],
  "links" :
  [
    {
      "value" : "https://example.net/ip/2001:db8::/48",
      "rel" : "self",
      "href" : "https://example.net/ip/2001:db8::/48",
      "type" : "application/rdap+json"
    },
    {
      "value" : "https://example.net/ip/2001:db8::/48",
      "rel" : "up",
      "href" : "https://example.net/ip/2001:db8::/32",
      "type" : "application/rdap+json"
    }
  ],
  "events" :
  [
    {
      "eventAction" : "registration",
      "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
    },
    {
      "eventAction" : "last changed",
      "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z"
    }
  ],
  "entities" :
  [
    {
      "objectClassName" : "entity",
      "handle" : "XXXX",
      "vcardArray":[
        "vcard",
        [
          ["version", {}, "text", "4.0"],
          ["fn", {}, "text", "Joe User"],

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

          ["kind", {}, "text", "individual"],
          ["lang", {
            "pref":"1"
          }, "language-tag", "fr"],
          ["lang", {
            "pref":"2"
          }, "language-tag", "en"],
          ["org", {
            "type":"work"
          }, "text", "Example"],
          ["title", {}, "text", "Research Scientist"],
          ["role", {}, "text", "Project Lead"],
          ["adr",
            { "type":"work" },
            "text",
            [
              "",
              "Suite 1234",
              "4321 Rue Somewhere",
              "Quebec",
              "QC",
              "G1V 2M2",
              "Canada"
            ]
          ],
          ["tel",
            { "type":["work", "voice"], "pref":"1" },
            "uri", "tel:+1-555-555-1234;ext=102"
          ],
          ["email",
            { "type":"work" },
            "text", "joe.user@example.com"
          ]
        ]
      ],
      "roles" : [ "registrant" ],
      "remarks" :
      [
        {
          "description" :
          [
            "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
            "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
          ]
        }
      ],
      "links" :
      [
        {
          "value" : "https://example.net/entity/xxxx",
          "rel" : "self",
          "href" : "https://example.net/entity/xxxx",
          "type" : "application/rdap+json"
        }
      ],
      "events" :
      [
        {

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

          "eventAction" : "registration",
          "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"

        },
        {
          "eventAction" : "last changed",
          "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 26

The IP network object class can contain the following members:

•

objectClassName -- the string "ip network"

•

handle -- a string representing the RIR-unique identiﬁer of the network registration

•

startAddress -- a string representing the starting IP address of the network, either IPv4 or
IPv6

•

endAddress -- a string representing the ending IP address of the network, either IPv4 or IPv6

•

ipVersion -- a string signifying the IP protocol version of the network: "v4" signiﬁes an IPv4
network, and "v6" signiﬁes an IPv6 network

•

name -- a string representing an identiﬁer assigned to the network registration by the
registration holder

•

type -- a string containing an RIR-speciﬁc classiﬁcation of the network per that RIR's
registration model

•

country -- a string containing the two-character country code of the network

•

parentHandle -- a string containing an RIR-unique identiﬁer of the parent network of this
network registration

•

status -- an array of strings indicating the state of the IP network as deﬁned by Section 4.6

•

entities -- an array of entity objects as deﬁned by Section 5.1

•

remarks -- see Section 4.3

•

links -- see Section 4.2

•

port43 -- see Section 4.7

•

events -- see Section 4.5

5.5.  The Autonomous System Number Object Class

The Autonomous System number (autnum) object class models Autonomous System number
registrations found in RIRs and represents the expected response to an "/autnum" query as
deﬁned by
the autnum object class consists of information about the Autonomous System number
registration and entities related to the autnum registration (e.g., registrant information, contacts,
etc.) and is similar to the IP network object class.

. There is no equivalent object class for DNRs. The high-level structure of

[RFC9082]

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an example of a JSON object representing an autnum.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

{
  "objectClassName" : "autnum",
  "handle" : "XXXX-RIR",
  "startAutnum" : 65536,
  "endAutnum" : 65541,
  "name": "AS-RTR-1",
  "type" : "DIRECT ALLOCATION",
  "status" : [ "active" ],
  "country": "AU",
  "remarks" :
  [
    {
      "description" :
      [
        "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
        "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
      ]
    }
  ],
  "links" :
  [
    {
      "value" : "https://example.net/autnum/65537",
      "rel" : "self",
      "href" : "https://example.net/autnum/65537",
      "type" : "application/rdap+json"
    }
  ],
  "events" :

  [
    {
      "eventAction" : "registration",
      "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
    },
    {
      "eventAction" : "last changed",
      "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z"
    }
  ],
  "entities" :
  [
    {
      "objectClassName" : "entity",
      "handle" : "XXXX",
      "vcardArray":[
        "vcard",
        [
          ["version", {}, "text", "4.0"],
          ["fn", {}, "text", "Joe User"],
          ["kind", {}, "text", "individual"],
          ["lang", {
            "pref":"1"
          }, "language-tag", "fr"],
          ["lang", {
            "pref":"2"
          }, "language-tag", "en"],

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

          ["org", {
            "type":"work"
          }, "text", "Example"],
          ["title", {}, "text", "Research Scientist"],
          ["role", {}, "text", "Project Lead"],
          ["adr",
            { "type":"work" },
            "text",
            [
              "",
              "Suite 1234",
              "4321 Rue Somewhere",
              "Quebec",
              "QC",
              "G1V 2M2",
              "Canada"
            ]
          ],
          ["tel",
            { "type":["work", "voice"], "pref":"1" },
            "uri", "tel:+1-555-555-1234;ext=102"
          ],
          ["email",
            { "type":"work" },
            "text", "joe.user@example.com"
          ]
        ]
      ],
      "roles" : [ "registrant" ],
      "remarks" :
      [
        {
          "description" :
          [
            "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
            "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
          ]
        }
      ],
      "links" :
      [
        {
          "value" : "https://example.net/entity/XXXX",
          "rel" : "self",
          "href" : "https://example.net/entity/XXXX",
          "type" : "application/rdap+json"
        }
      ],
      "events" :
      [
        {
          "eventAction" : "registration",
          "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        },
        {
          "eventAction" : "last changed",
          "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        }

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 27

The Autonomous System number object class can contain the following members:

•

objectClassName -- the string "autnum"

•

handle -- a string representing the RIR-unique identiﬁer of the autnum registration

•

startAutnum -- an unsigned 32-bit integer representing the starting number
block of Autonomous System numbers

[RFC5396]

 in the

•

endAutnum -- an unsigned 32-bit integer representing the ending number
block of Autonomous System numbers

[RFC5396]

 in the

•

name -- a string representing an identiﬁer assigned to the autnum registration by the
registration holder

•

type -- a string containing an RIR-speciﬁc classiﬁcation of the autnum per that RIR's
registration model

•

status -- an array of strings indicating the state of the autnum as deﬁned by Section 4.6

•

country -- a string containing the two-character country code of the autnum

•

entities -- an array of entity objects as deﬁned by Section 5.1

•

remarks -- see Section 4.3

•

links -- see Section 4.2

•

port43 -- see Section 4.7

•

events -- see Section 4.5

6.  Error Response Body

Some non-answer responses
descriptive.

MAY

 return entity bodies with information that could be more

The basic structure of that response is an object class containing a
(corresponding to the HTTP response code) followed by an
 array of strings named "description".
OPTIONAL

OPTIONAL

REQUIRED

 error code number
 string named "title" and an

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

This is an example of the common response body.

{
  "errorCode": 418,
  "title": "Your Beverage Choice is Not Available",
  "description":
  [
    "I know coffee has more ummppphhh.",
    "Sorry, dude!"
  ]
}

Figure 28

This is an example of the common response body with an rdapConformance and notices data
structures:

{
  "rdapConformance" :
  [
    "rdap_level_0"
  ],
  "notices" :
  [
    {
      "title" : "Beverage Policy",
      "description" :
      [
        "Beverages with caffeine for keeping horses awake."
      ],
      "links" :
      [
        {
          "value" : "https://example.net/ip/192.0.2.0/24",
          "rel" : "alternate",
          "type" : "text/html",
          "href" : "https://www.example.com/redaction_policy.html"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "lang" : "en",
  "errorCode": 418,
  "title": "Your beverage choice is not available",
  "description":
  [
    "I know coffee has more ummppphhh.",
    "Sorry, dude!"
  ]
}

Figure 29

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

7.  Responding to Help Queries

The appropriate response to /help queries as deﬁned by
as deﬁned in Section 4.3.

[RFC9082]

 is to use the notices structure

This is an example of a response to a /help query including the rdapConformance data structure.

{
  "rdapConformance" :
  [
    "rdap_level_0"
  ],
  "notices" :
  [
    {
      "title" : "Authentication Policy",
      "description" :
      [
        "Access to sensitive data for users with proper credentials."
      ],
      "links" :
      [
        {
          "value" : "https://example.net/help",
          "rel" : "alternate",
          "type" : "text/html",
          "href" : "https://www.example.com/auth_policy.html"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 30

8.  Responding To Searches

 speciﬁes three types of searches: domains, nameservers, and entities. Responses to

[RFC9082]
these searches take the form of an array of object instances where each instance is an
appropriate object class for the search (i.e., a search for /domains yields an array of domain
object instances). These arrays are contained within the response object.

The names of the arrays are as follows:

•

for /domains searches, the array is "domainSearchResults"

•

for /nameservers searches, the array is "nameserverSearchResults"

•

for /entities searches, the array is "entitySearchResults"

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an elided example of a response to a /domains search.

{
  "rdapConformance" :
  [
    "rdap_level_0"
  ],
  ...
  "domainSearchResults" :
  [
    {
      "objectClassName" : "domain",
      "handle" : "1-XXXX",
      "ldhName" : "1.example.com",
      ...
    },
    {
      "objectClassName" : "domain",
      "handle" : "2-XXXX",
      "ldhName" : "2.example.com",
      ...
    }
  ]
}

Figure 31

9.  Indicating Truncated Responses

In cases where the data of a response needs to be limited or parts of the data need to be omitted,
the response is considered "truncated". A truncated response is still valid JSON, but some of the
results in a search set or some of the data in an object are not provided by the server. A server
may indicate this by including a typed notice in the response object.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an elided example of a search response that has been truncated.

{
  "rdapConformance" :
  [
    "rdap_level_0"
  ],
  "notices" :
  [
    {
      "title" : "Search Policy",
      "type" : "result set truncated due to authorization",
      "description" :
      [
        "Search results are limited to 25 per day per querying IP."
      ],
      "links" :
      [
        {
          "value" : "https://example.net/help",
          "rel" : "alternate",
          "type" : "text/html",
          "href" : "https://www.example.com/search_policy.html"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "domainSearchResults" :
  [
    ...
  ]
}

Figure 32

A similar technique can be used with a typed remark where a single object has been returned
and data in that object has been truncated. Such an example might be an entity object with only
a partial set of the IP networks associated with it.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an elided example of an entity truncated data.

{
  "objectClassName" : "entity",
  "handle" : "ANENTITY",
  "roles" : [ "registrant" ],
  ...
  "entities" :
  [
    {
      "objectClassName" : "entity",
      "handle": "ANEMBEDDEDENTITY",
      "roles" : [ "technical" ],
      ...
    },
    ...
  ],
  "networks" :
  [
    ...
  ],
  ...
  "remarks" :
  [
    {
      "title" : "Data Policy",
      "type" : "object truncated due to unexplainable reason",
      "description" :
      [
        "Some of the data in this object has been removed."
      ],
      "links" :
      [
        {
          "value" : "https://example.net/help",
          "rel" : "alternate",
          "type" : "text/html",
          "href" : "https://www.example.com/data_policy.html"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 33

10.  IANA Considerations

IANA has updated the description of the "transfer" event action as described in Section 10.2.3.

10.1.  RDAP JSON Media Type Registration

IANA has updated the media type registration as described below.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

This speciﬁcation registers the "application/rdap+json" media type.

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

rdap+json

Required parameters:

n/a

Encoding considerations:

See

Section 3.1 of [RFC6839]

.

Security considerations:

The media represented by this identiﬁer does not have security

considerations beyond that found in

Section 12 of [RFC8259]

.

Interoperability considerations:

There are no known interoperability problems regarding this

media format.

Published speciﬁcation:

RFC 9083

Applications that use this media type:

Implementations of the Registration Data Access Protocol

(RDAP).

Additional information:

This media type is a product of the IETF REGEXT Working Group. The
REGEXT charter, information on the REGEXT mailing list, and other documents produced by
the REGEXT Working Group can be found at

https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/regext/

.

Person & email address to contact for further information:

IESG <iesg@ietf.org>

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

none

Author:

Andy Newton

Change controller:

IETF

Provisional Registration:

No

10.2.  JSON Values Registry

IANA has created a category in the protocol registries labeled "Registration Data Access Protocol
(RDAP)", and within that category, IANA has established a URL-referenceable, stand-alone
registry labeled "RDAP JSON Values". This new registry is for use in the notices and remarks
(Section 4.3), status (Section 4.6), role (Section 5.1), event action (Section 4.5), and domain variant
relation (Section 5.3) ﬁelds speciﬁed in RDAP.

Each entry in the registry contains the following ﬁelds:

1.

Value -- the string value being registered.

2.

Type -- the type of value being registered. It should be one of the following:
◦

"notice or remark type" -- denotes a type of notice or remark.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

◦

◦

◦

◦

"status" -- denotes a value for the "status" object member as deﬁned by Section 4.6.

"role" -- denotes a value for the "role" array as deﬁned in Section 5.1.

"event action" -- denotes a value for an event action as deﬁned in Section 4.5.

"domain variant relation" -- denotes a relationship between a domain and a domain
variant as deﬁned in Section 5.3.

3.

Description -- a one- or two-sentence description regarding the meaning of the value, how it
might be used, and/or how it should be interpreted by clients.

4.

Registrant Name -- the name of the person registering the value.

5.

Registrant Contact Information -- an email address, postal address, or some other
information to be used to contact the registrant.

This registry is operated under the "Expert Review" policy deﬁned in

[RFC8126]
.

Review of registrations into this registry by the designated expert(s) should be narrowly judged
on the following criteria:

1.

Values in need of being placed into multiple types must be assigned a separate registration
for each type.

2.

Values must be strings. They should be multiple words separated by single space characters.
Every character should be lowercased. If possible, every word should be given in English
and each character should be US-ASCII.

3.

Registrations should not duplicate the meaning of any existing registration. That is, if a
request for a registration is signiﬁcantly similar in nature to an existing registration, the
request should be denied. For example, the terms "maintainer" and "registrant" are
signiﬁcantly similar in nature as they both denote a holder of a domain name or Internet
number resource. In cases where it may be reasonably argued that machine interpretation
of two similar values may alter the operation of client software, designated experts should
not judge the values to be of signiﬁcant similarity.

4.

Registrations should be relevant to the common usages of RDAP. Designated experts may rely
upon the serving of the value by a DNR or RIR to make this determination.

The following sections provide initial registrations into this registry.

10.2.1.  Notice and Remark Types

The following values have been registered in the "RDAP JSON Values" registry:

result set truncated due to authorization
notice and remark type

Value:
Type:
Description:

The list of results does not contain all results due to lack of authorization. This may

indicate to some clients that proper authorization will yield a longer result set.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

result set truncated due to excessive load
notice and remark type

Value:
Type:
Description:

The list of results does not contain all results due to an excessively heavy load on

the server. This may indicate to some clients that requerying at a later time will yield a longer
result set.
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

iesg@ietf.org

IESG

result set truncated due to unexplainable reasons
notice and remark type

Value:
Type:
Description:

The list of results does not contain all results for an unexplainable reason. This

may indicate to some clients that requerying for any reason will not yield a longer result set.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

object truncated due to authorization
notice and remark type

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

The object does not contain all data due to lack of authorization.

object truncated due to excessive load
notice and remark type

Value:
Type:
Description:

The object does not contain all data due to an excessively heavy load on the server.

This may indicate to some clients that requerying at a later time will yield all data of the
object.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

object truncated due to unexplainable reasons
notice and remark type

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

The object does not contain all data for an unexplainable reason.

10.2.2.  Status

The following values have been registered in the "RDAP JSON Values" registry:

validated
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

Signiﬁes that the data of the object instance has been found to be accurate. This

type of status is usually found on entity object instances to note the validity of identifying
contact information.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

Renewal or reregistration of the object instance is forbidden.

renew prohibited
status

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

update prohibited
status

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

iesg@ietf.org

Updates to the object instance are forbidden.

transfer prohibited
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

Transfers of the registration from one registrar to another are forbidden. This type

of status normally applies to DNR domain names.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

delete prohibited
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

Deletion of the registration of the object instance is forbidden. This type of status

normally applies to DNR domain names.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

proxy
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

The registration of the object instance has been performed by a third party. This is

most commonly applied to entities.
IESG

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

iesg@ietf.org

private
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

The information of the object instance is not designated for public consumption.

This is most commonly applied to entities.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

removed
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

Some of the information of the object instance has not been made available and

has been removed. This is most commonly applied to entities.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

obscured
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

Some of the information of the object instance has been altered for the purposes of

not readily revealing the actual information of the object instance. This is most commonly
applied to entities.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

associated
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

The object instance is associated with other object instances in the registry. This is

most commonly used to signify that a nameserver is associated with a domain or that an
entity is associated with a network resource or domain.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

active
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

The object instance is in use. For domain names, it signiﬁes that the domain name
is published in DNS. For network and autnum registrations, it signiﬁes that they are allocated
or assigned for use in operational networks. This maps to the "OK" status of the Extensible
Provisioning Protocol (EPP)

[RFC5730]

.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

inactive
status

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

The object instance is not in use. See "active".

locked
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

Changes to the object instance cannot be made, including the association of other

object instances.

Registrant Name:

IESG

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

Registrant Contact Information:

iesg@ietf.org

pending create
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

A request has been received for the creation of the object instance, but this action

is not yet complete.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

pending renew
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

A request has been received for the renewal of the object instance, but this action

is not yet complete.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

pending transfer
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

A request has been received for the transfer of the object instance, but this action

is not yet complete.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

pending update
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

A request has been received for the update or modiﬁcation of the object instance,

but this action is not yet complete.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

pending delete
status

Value:
Type:
Description:

A request has been received for the deletion or removal of the object instance, but

this action is not yet complete. For domains, this might mean that the name is no longer
published in DNS but has not yet been purged from the registry database.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

10.2.3.  Event Actions

The following values have been registered in the "RDAP JSON Values" registry:

Value:

registration

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

event action

Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

The object instance was initially registered.

The object instance was registered subsequently to initial registration.

reregistration
event action

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

last changed
event action

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

iesg@ietf.org

An action noting when the information in the object instance was last changed.

expiration
event action

Value:
Type:
Description:

The object instance has been removed or will be removed at a predetermined date

and time from the registry.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

deletion
event action

Value:
Type:
Description:

The object instance was removed from the registry at a point in time that was not

predetermined.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

The object instance was reregistered after having been removed from the registry.

reinstantiation
event action

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

transfer
event action

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

iesg@ietf.org

The object instance was transferred from one registrar to another.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 60

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The object instance was locked (see the "locked" status).

locked
event action

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

unlocked
event action

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

iesg@ietf.org

The object instance was unlocked (see the "locked" status).

10.2.4.  Roles

The following values have been registered in the "RDAP JSON Values" registry:

registrant
Value:
role
Type:
Description:

The entity object instance is the registrant of the registration. In some registries,

this is known as a maintainer.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

The entity object instance is a technical contact for the registration.

technical
Value:
role
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

administrative
Value:
role
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

iesg@ietf.org

The entity object instance is an administrative contact for the registration.

abuse
Value:
role
Type:
Description:

The entity object instance handles network abuse issues on behalf of the registrant

of the registration.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

Value:

billing

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 61

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

role
Type:
Description:

The entity object instance handles payment and billing issues on behalf of the

registrant of the registration.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

registrar
Value:
role
Type:
Description:

The entity object instance represents the authority responsible for the registration

in the registry.
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

reseller
Value:
role
Type:
Description:

The entity object instance represents a third party through which the registration

was conducted (i.e., not the registry or registrar).

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

sponsor
Value:
role
Type:
Description:

The entity object instance represents a domain policy sponsor, such as an ICANN-

approved sponsor.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

proxy
Value:
role
Type:
Description:

The entity object instance represents a proxy for another entity object, such as a

registrant.
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

notiﬁcations
Value:
role
Type:
Description:

An entity object instance designated to receive notiﬁcations about association

object instances.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

Value:
Type:

noc
role

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 62

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

Description:

The entity object instance handles communications related to a network

operations center (NOC).

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

10.2.5.  Variant Relations

The following values have been registered in the "RDAP JSON Values" registry:

The variant names are registered in the registry.

registered
domain variant relation

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

unregistered
domain variant relation

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

iesg@ietf.org

The variant names are not found in the registry.

registration restricted
domain variant relation

Value:
Type:
Description:
rules.

Registration of the variant names is restricted to certain parties or within certain

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

open registration
domain variant relation

Value:
Type:
Description:
Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

Registration of the variant names is available to generally qualiﬁed registrants.

conjoined
domain variant relation

Value:
Type:
Description:

Registration of the variant names occurs automatically with the registration of the

containing domain registration.

Registrant Name:
Registrant Contact Information:

IESG

iesg@ietf.org

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 63

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

11.  Security Considerations

This speciﬁcation models information serialized in JSON format. As JSON is a subset of
JavaScript, implementations are advised to follow the security considerations outlined in
12 of [RFC8259]

 to prevent code injection.

Section

Though not speciﬁc to JSON, RDAP implementers should be aware of the security considerations
 and the security requirements and considerations in
speciﬁed in

[RFC7481]
.

[RFC7480]

RDAP responses allow for retrieval of DNSSEC (key) related information, but the RRSIG DS from
the parent zone is not conveyed alongside it. This means that the DNSSEC keys retrieved by RDAP
are disconnected from their containing PKI, and as such are not generally expected to be trusted
without additional information. In particular, the HTTPS channel protecting the RDAP
connection is not expected to be authorized to certify the validity of the DNSSEC keys.

Clients caching data, especially clients using RDAP-speciﬁc caches (instead of HTTP-layer caches),
should have safeguards to prevent cache poisoning. See Section 5 for advice on using the self
links for caching.

Finally, service operators should be aware of the privacy mechanisms noted in Section 13.

12.  Internationalization Considerations

12.1.  Character Encoding

The default text encoding for JSON responses in RDAP is UTF-8
clients

 support UTF-8.

MUST

[RFC3629]

, and all servers and

12.2.  URIs and IRIs

[RFC7480]

 deﬁnes the use of URIs and IRIs in RDAP.

12.3.  Language Tags

Section 4.4 deﬁnes the use of language tags in the JSON responses deﬁned in this document.

12.4.  Internationalized Domain Names

IDNs are denoted in this speciﬁcation by the separation of DNS names in LDH form and Unicode
form (see Section 3). Representation of IDNs in registries is described by the "variants" object in
Section 5.3 and the suggested values listed in Section 10.2.5.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 64

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

13.  Privacy Considerations

This speciﬁcation suggests status values to denote contact and registrant information that has
been marked as private and/or has been removed or obscured. See Section 10.2.2 for the
complete list of status values. A few of the status values indicate that there are privacy concerns
associated with the object instance. The following status codes
 be used to describe data
elements of a response when appropriate:

SHOULD

•

private -- The object is not be shared in query responses, unless the user is authorized to
view this information.

•

removed -- Data elements within the object have been collected but have been omitted from
the response. This option can be used to prevent unauthorized access to associated object
instances without the need to mark them as private.

•

obscured -- Data elements within the object have been collected, but the response value has
been altered so that values are not easily discernible. A value changed from "1212" to "XXXX"
is an example of obscured data. This option may reveal privacy sensitive information and
should only be used when data sensitivity does not require a more protective option like
"private" or "removed".

See Appendix A.1 for an example of applying those values to contacts and registrants.

14.  References

14.1.  Normative References

[ISO.3166.2020]

International Organization for Standardization "Codes for the representation

,

of names of countries and their subdivisions" Fourth edition ISO Standard
3166

, August 2020.

,

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC3339]

[RFC3629]

[RFC3986]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Klyne, G.
,
3339 DOI 10.17487/RFC3339
rfc3339>

.

,

C. Newman "Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2002,

,
Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

.

,

,

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

.

,

,

,

,

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):

, January 2005,

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 65

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

[RFC4034]

[RFC5396]

[RFC5646]

[RFC5890]

[RFC5952]

[RFC7095]

[RFC7480]

[RFC7481]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8288]

[RFC9082]

,

Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
,
the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4034 DOI 10.17487/RFC4034
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4034>

, and

,

,

,

.

S. Rose "Resource Records for

, March 2005,

Huston, G.
(AS) Numbers" RFC 5396 DOI 10.17487/RFC5396
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5396>

G. Michaelson "Textual Representation of Autonomous System
 and
,

, December 2008,

<https://

,

,

.

 and

Phillips, A., Ed.
5646 DOI 10.17487/RFC5646
,
rfc5646>

.

M. Davis, Ed. "Tags for Identifying Languages" BCP 47 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Deﬁnitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

,

,

.

,

 and
Kawamura, S.
,
Representation" RFC 5952 DOI 10.17487/RFC5952
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5952>

,

,

.

M. Kawashima "A Recommendation for IPv6 Address Text

, August 2010,

<https://

Kewisch, P. "jCard: The JSON Format for vCard" RFC 7095 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7095

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7095>

, January 2014,

.

,

,

,

,
Newton, A. Ellacott, B.
,
Access Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 7480 DOI 10.17487/RFC7480
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7480>

N. Kong "HTTP Usage in the Registration Data

, and
,

,
.

,

, March 2015,

 and
Hollenbeck, S.
,
Protocol (RDAP)" STD 95 RFC 7481 DOI 10.17487/RFC7481
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7481>

,

,

.

,

N. Kong "Security Services for the Registration Data Access

, March 2015,

<https://

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

.

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,
Nottingham, M. "Web Linking" RFC 8288 DOI 10.17487/RFC8288
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>

,
.

,

, October 2017,

Hollenbeck, S.
Format" STD 95 RFC 9082 DOI 10.17487/RFC9082
.
editor.org/info/rfc9082>

A. Newton "Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP) Query
<https://www.rfc-

, June 2021,

 and
,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 66

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

14.2.  Informative References

[IANA_IDNTABLES]

IANA "Repository of IDN Practices" <https://www.iana.org/domains/idn-
,

,

tables>

.

[JSON_ascendancy]

MacVittie, L. "The Stealthy Ascendancy of JSON"
devcentral.f5.com/s/articles/the-stealthy-ascendancy-of-json>

, April 2011,
.

,

<https://

[JSON_performance_study]

Nurseitov, N. Paulson, M. Reynolds, R.

,

,

, and

C. Izurieta

,

[RFC3912]

[RFC5730]

[RFC5910]

[RFC6350]

[RFC6839]

"Comparison of JSON and XML Data Interchange Formats: A Case Study"
<https://www.cs.montana.edu/izurieta/pubs/caine2009.pdf>

.

, 2009,

Daigle, L. "WHOIS Protocol Speciﬁcation" RFC 3912 DOI 10.17487/RFC3912
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3912>
September 2004,

.

,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" STD 69 RFC 5730 DOI
10.17487/RFC5730

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5730>

, August 2009,

,
.

,

,

,

 and

S. Hollenbeck "Domain Name System (DNS) Security Extensions

Gould, J.
Mapping for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" RFC 5910 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5910>
10.17487/RFC5910

, May 2010,

,

,

,

,
Perreault, S. "vCard Format Speciﬁcation" RFC 6350 DOI 10.17487/RFC6350
August 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6350>

.

,

,

 and

Hansen, T.
,
RFC 6839 DOI 10.17487/RFC6839
.
rfc6839>

,
A. Melnikov "Additional Media Type Structured Syntax Suﬃxes"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2013,

,

Appendix A.  Suggested Data Modeling with the Entity Object
Class

A.1.  Registrants and Contacts

This document does not provide speciﬁc object classes for registrants and contacts. Instead, the
entity object class may be used to represent a registrant or contact. When the entity object is
embedded inside a containing object such as a domain name or IP network, the "roles" string
array can be used to signify the relationship. It is recommended that the values from Section
10.2.4 be used.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 67

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an example of an elided containing object with an embedded entity that is both
a registrant and administrative contact:

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 68

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

{
  ...
  "entities" :
  [
    {
      "objectClassName" : "entity",
      "handle" : "XXXX",
      "vcardArray":[
        "vcard",
        [
          ["version", {}, "text", "4.0"],
          ["fn", {}, "text", "Joe User"],
          ["kind", {}, "text", "individual"],
          ["lang", {
            "pref":"1"
          }, "language-tag", "fr"],
          ["lang", {
            "pref":"2"
          }, "language-tag", "en"],
          ["org", {
            "type":"work"
          }, "text", "Example"],
          ["title", {}, "text", "Research Scientist"],
          ["role", {}, "text", "Project Lead"],
          ["adr",
            { "type":"work" },
            "text",
            [
              "",
              "Suite 1234",
              "4321 Rue Somewhere",
              "Quebec",
              "QC",
              "G1V 2M2",
              "Canada"
            ]
          ],
          ["tel",
            { "type":["work", "voice"], "pref":"1" },
            "uri", "tel:+1-555-555-1234;ext=102"
          ],
          ["email",
            { "type":"work" },
            "text", "joe.user@example.com"
          ]
        ]
      ],
      "roles" : [ "registrant", "administrative" ],
      "remarks" :
      [
        {
          "description" :
          [
            "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
            "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
          ]
        }

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 69

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

      ],
      "events" :
      [
        {
          "eventAction" : "registration",
          "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        },
        {
          "eventAction" : "last changed",
          "eventDate" : "1991-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 34

In many use cases, it is necessary to hide or obscure the information of a registrant or contact
due to policy or other operational matters. Registries can denote these situations with "status"
values (see Section 10.2.2).

The following is an elided example of a registrant with information changed to reﬂect that of a
third party.

{
  ...
  "entities" :
  [
    {
      "objectClassName" : "entity",
      "handle" : "XXXX",
      ...
      "roles" : [ "registrant", "administrative" ],
      "status" : [ "proxy", "private", "obscured" ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 35

A.2.  Registrars

This document does not provide a speciﬁc object class for registrars, but like registrants and
contacts (see Appendix A.1), the "roles" string array maybe used. Additionally, many registrars
have publicly assigned identiﬁers. The publicIds structure (Section 4.8) represents that
information.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 70

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an example of an elided containing object with an embedded entity that is a
registrar:

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 71

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

{
  ...
  "entities":[
    {
      "objectClassName" : "entity",
      "handle":"XXXX",
      "vcardArray":[
        "vcard",
        [
          ["version", {}, "text", "4.0"],
          ["fn", {}, "text", "Joe's Fish, Chips, and Domains"],
          ["kind", {}, "text", "org"],
          ["lang", {
            "pref":"1"
          }, "language-tag", "fr"],
          ["lang", {
            "pref":"2"
          }, "language-tag", "en"],
          ["org", {
            "type":"work"
          }, "text", "Example"],
          ["adr",
            { "type":"work" },
            "text",
            [
              "",
              "Suite 1234",
              "4321 Rue Somewhere",
              "Quebec",
              "QC",
              "G1V 2M2",
              "Canada"
            ]
          ],
          ["tel",
            {
              "type":["work", "voice"],
              "pref":"1"
            },
            "uri", "tel:+1-555-555-1234;ext=102"
          ],
          ["email",
            { "type":"work" },
            "text", "joes_fish_chips_and_domains@example.com"
          ]
        ]
      ],
      "roles":[ "registrar" ],
      "publicIds":[
        {
          "type":"IANA Registrar ID",
          "identifier":"1"
        }
      ],
      "remarks":[
        {
          "description":[

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 72

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

            "She sells sea shells down by the sea shore.",
            "Originally written by Terry Sullivan."
          ]
        }
      ],
      "links":[
        {
          "value":"https://example.net/entity/XXXX",
          "rel":"alternate",
          "type":"text/html",
          "href":"https://www.example.com"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 36

Appendix B.  Modeling Events

Events represent actions that have taken place against a registered object at a certain date and
time. Events have three properties: the action, the actor, and the date and time of the event
(which is sometimes in the future). In some cases, the identity of the actor is not captured.

Events can be modeled in three ways:

1.

events with no designated actor

2.

events where the actor is only designated by an identiﬁer

3.

events where the actor can be modeled as an entity

For the ﬁrst use case, the events data structure (Section 4.5) is used without the "eventActor"
object member.

This is an example of an "events" array without the "eventActor".

"events" :
[
  {
    "eventAction" : "registration",
    "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
  }
]

Figure 37

For the second use case, the events data structure (Section 4.5) is used with the "eventActor"
object member.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 73

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

This is an example of an "events" array with the "eventActor".

"events" :
[
  {
    "eventAction" : "registration",
    "eventActor" : "XYZ-NIC",
    "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
  }
]

Figure 38

For the third use case, the "asEventActor" array is used when an entity (Section 5.1) is embedded
into another object class. The "asEventActor" array follows the same structure as the "events"
array but does not have "eventActor" attributes.

The following is an elided example of a domain object with an entity as an event actor.

{
  "objectClassName" : "domain",
  "handle" : "XXXX",
  "ldhName" : "foo.example",
  "status" : [ "locked", "transfer prohibited" ],
  ...
  "entities" :
  [
    {
      "handle" : "XXXX",
      ...
      "asEventActor" :
      [
        {
          "eventAction" : "last changed",
          "eventDate" : "1990-12-31T23:59:59Z"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 39

Appendix C.  Structured vs. Unstructured Addresses

The entity (Section 5.1) object class uses jCard
including postal addresses. jCard has the ability to represent multiple language preferences,
multiple email address and phone numbers, and multiple postal addresses in both a structured
and unstructured format. This section describes the use of jCard for representing structured and
unstructured addresses.

 to represent contact information,

[RFC7095]

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 74

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The following is an example of a jCard.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 75

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

{
  "vcardArray":[
    "vcard",
    [
      ["version", {}, "text", "4.0"],
      ["fn", {}, "text", "Joe User"],
      ["n", {}, "text",
        ["User", "Joe", "", "", ["ing. jr", "M.Sc."]]
      ],
      ["kind", {}, "text", "individual"],
      ["lang", {
        "pref":"1"
      }, "language-tag", "fr"],
      ["lang", {
        "pref":"2"
      }, "language-tag", "en"],
      ["org", {
        "type":"work"
      }, "text", "Example"],
      ["title", {}, "text", "Research Scientist"],
      ["role", {}, "text", "Project Lead"],
      ["adr",
        { "type":"work" },
        "text",
        [
          "",
          "Suite 1234",
          "4321 Rue Somewhere",
          "Quebec",
          "QC",
          "G1V 2M2",
          "Canada"
        ]
      ],
      ["adr",
        {

          "type":"home",
          "label":"123 Maple Ave\nSuite 90001\nVancouver\nBC\n1239\n"
        },
        "text",
        [
          "", "", "", "", "", "", ""
        ]
      ],
      ["tel",
        { "type":["work", "voice"], "pref":"1" },
        "uri", "tel:+1-555-555-1234;ext=102"
      ],
      ["tel",
        {
          "type":["work", "cell", "voice", "video", "text"]
        },
        "uri",
        "tel:+1-555-555-1234"
      ],
      ["email",

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 76

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

        { "type":"work" },
        "text", "joe.user@example.com"
      ],
      ["geo", {
        "type":"work"
      }, "uri", "geo:46.772673,-71.282945"],
      ["key",
        { "type":"work" },
        "uri", "https://www.example.com/joe.user/joe.asc"
      ],
      ["tz", {},
        "utc-offset", "-05:00"],
      ["url", { "type":"home" },
        "uri", "https://example.org"]
    ]
  ]
}

Figure 40

The arrays in Figure 40 with the ﬁrst member of "adr" represent postal addresses. In the ﬁrst
example, the postal address is given as an array of strings and constitutes a structured address.
For components of the structured address that are not applicable, an empty string is given. Each
member of that array aligns with the positions of a vCard as given in
. In this example,
the following data corresponds to the following positional meanings:

[RFC6350]

1.

post oﬃce box -- not applicable; empty string

2.

extended address (e.g., apartment or suite number) -- Suite 1234

3.

street address -- 4321 Rue Somewhere

4.

locality (e.g., city) -- Quebec

5.

region (e.g., state or province) -- QC

6.

postal code -- G1V 2M2

7.

country name (full name) -- Canada

The second example is an unstructured address. It uses the "label" attribute, which is a string
containing a newline (\n) character to separate address components in an unordered,
unspeciﬁed manner. Note that in this example, the structured address array is still given but that
each string is an empty string.

Appendix D.  Secure DNS

Section 5.3 deﬁnes the "secureDNS" member to represent secure DNS information about domain
names.

DNSSEC provides data integrity for DNS through the digital signing of resource records. To
enable DNSSEC, the zone is signed by one or more private keys and the signatures are stored as
RRSIG records. To complete the chain of trust in the DNS zone hierarchy, a digest of each DNSKEY
record (which contains the public key) must be loaded into the parent zone, stored as DS records,

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 77

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

and signed by the parent's private key (RRSIG DS record), as indicated in "Resource Records for
the DNS Security Extensions"
. Creating the DS records in the parent zone can be done
by the registration authority "Domain Name System (DNS) Security Extensions Mapping for the
Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)"

[RFC4034]

[RFC5910]

.

Only DS-related information is provided by RDAP, since other information is not generally stored
in the registration database. Other DNSSEC-related information can be retrieved with other DNS
tools such as dig.

The domain object class (Section 5.3) can represent this information using either the "dsData" or
"keyData" object arrays. Client implementers should be aware that some registries do not collect
or do not publish all of the secure DNS meta-information.

Appendix E.  Motivations for Using JSON

This section addresses a common question regarding the use of JSON over other data formats,
most notably XML.

It is often pointed out that many DNRs and one RIR support the EPP
an XML serialized protocol. The logic is that since EPP is a common protocol in the industry, it
follows that XML would be a more natural choice. While EPP does inﬂuence this speciﬁcation
quite a bit, EPP serves a diﬀerent purpose, which is the provisioning of Internet resources
between registries and accredited registrars and serving a much narrower audience than that
envisioned for RDAP.

[RFC5730]

 standard, which is

By contrast, RDAP has a broader audience and is designed for public consumption of data.
Experience from RIRs with ﬁrst generation RESTful web services for WHOIS indicate that a large
percentage of clients operate within browsers and other platforms where full-blown XML stacks
are not readily available and where JSON is a better ﬁt.

Additionally, while EPP is used in much of the DNR community it is not a universal constant in
that industry. And ﬁnally, EPP's use of XML predates the speciﬁcation of JSON. If EPP had been
deﬁned today, it may very well have used JSON instead of XML.

Beyond the speciﬁc DNR and RIR communities, the trend in the broader Internet industry is also
switching to JSON over XML, especially in the area of RESTful web services (see
[JSON_ascendancy]
faster to parse (see

). Studies have also found that JSON is generally less bulky and consequently
[JSON_performance_study]

).

Appendix F.  Changes from RFC 7483

•

Addressed known errata.

•

Updated references to 7482 to RFC 9082. Adjusted case of "xxxx" used in examples where
"XXXX" was previously used, and removed an "X" from "XXXXX". Changed IPv6 address
example using "C00" to "c00". Added "a string representing" to the deﬁnitions of startAddress
and endAddress. Removed "entity" from "Autonomous System Number Entity Object Class".

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 78

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

Added "an unsigned 32-bit integer" to the deﬁnition of startAutnum and endAutnum. Added
"a string representing" to the deﬁnition of name in the IP network and ASN object classes.
Clariﬁed rdapConformance identiﬁer registration expectations in Section 4.1. Changed
"lunarNic_level_0" to "lunarNIC_level_0".

•

Clariﬁed that the "value", "rel" and "href" JSON values

MUST

 be speciﬁed in the "links" array.

•

Clariﬁed that the "description" array is required in the Notices and Remarks data structures
and other values are

OPTIONAL

.

•

Noted that all members of the "events" and "Public IDs" arrays are

REQUIRED

.

•

Fix "self" link values in examples. Changed "http" to "https" link values in examples. Noted
that Figure 18 is an example of a nameserver object with all "appropriate" values given. In
Appendix C, quoted the word "label" in "label attribute". Added reference to "status"
deﬁnition in the descriptions for IP networks and autnums. Fixed a 404 for the informative
reference to "The Stealthy Ascendancy of JSON". Added "boolean" to the deﬁnition of
zoneSigned.

•

Clariﬁed

REQUIRED

 and

OPTIONAL

 members of the "events" array.

•

Changed "

SHOULD

 not" to "

SHOULD NOT

" in Section 5.

•

Updated normative references (RFC 5226 to RFC 8126, RFC 5988 to RFC 8288, RFC 7159 to RFC
8259). Changed examples using "ns1.xn--fo-5ja.example" to split URLs to avoid long lines.

•

Added acknowledgments.

•

Changed "The "lang" attribute may appear anywhere in an object class or data structure
 appear
except for in jCard objects" to "The "lang" attribute as deﬁned in this section
anywhere in an object class or data structure, except for in jCard objects. jCard supports
similar functionality by way of the LANGUAGE property parameter (see Section 5.1 of RFC
6350

[RFC6350]

MAY

".

•

Changed "simple data types conveyed in JSON strings" to "simple data types conveyed in
JSON primitive types (strings, numbers, booleans, and null)". Changed "In other words,
servers are free to not include JSON members containing registration data based on their
own policies" to "In other words, servers are free to omit unrequired/optional JSON
members containing registration data based on their own policies".

•

Changed "This data structure appears only in the topmost JSON object of a response" to "This
 appear in the topmost JSON object of a response".
data structure

MUST

•

Changed "Some non-answer responses may return entity bodies with information that could
be more descriptive" to "Some non-answer responses
information that could be more descriptive".

 return entity bodies with

MAY

•

Changed "The basic structure of that response is an object class containing an error code
number (corresponding to the HTTP response code) followed by a string named "title" and
an array of strings named "description"" to "The basic structure of that response is an object
class containing a
 error code number (corresponding to the HTTP response code)
followed by an
"description"".

 string named "title" and an

 array of strings named

OPTIONAL

OPTIONAL

REQUIRED

•

Changed the "Autonomous System Number Object Class" section title to "The Autonomous
System Number Object Class" for consistency with other section titles. Removed trailing
periods in the "Terminology and Deﬁnitions" section for consistency. Changed instances of

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 79

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

"lunarNic" to "lunarNIC" for consistency. Removed an extraneous trailing period after the
eventDate description. Changed a "." to ";" in the description of the "network" member of the
domain object class. Changed "The high-level structure of the autnum object class consists of
information about the network registration" to "The high-level structure of the autnum
object class consists of information about the Autonomous System number registration".
Changed "registry unique" to "registry-unique".

•

Changed "registrant" to "registrar" in the description of the "transfer" event action to address
erratum 6158. Added IANA instructions to correct the description of the value in the registry.

•

Added text to Section 4.2 to note that "self" and "related" "href" URIs

MUST NOT

 be the same.

•

Added text to Section 4.2 to describe return of IDNs in LDH name format.

•

Added text to note that the "fn" member of a contact object

MAY

 be empty in Section 3.

•

Added text to clarify rdapConformance requirements in Section 4.1.

•

Added "obsoletes 7483" to the headers, Abstract, and Introduction. Updated BCP 14
boilerplate. Updated IANA Considerations to note that this RFC (a product of the REGEXT
Working Group) replaces RFC 7483. Changed "simple string" to "simple character string" in
Sections 3 and 4.7. Clariﬁed requirement for the "fn" member in Section 3. Modiﬁed the
requirement for rdapConformance placement in Section 4.1. Changed "jCard" to "vCard"
LANGUAGE property reference in Section 4.4. Changed "no use" to "little or no use" in Section
5.1. Added example line wrap note in Section 5.2. Modiﬁed the deﬁnition of "idnTable" in
Section 5.3. Modiﬁed the dsData and keyData examples in Section 5.3. Changed
"2001:c00::/23" to "2001:db8::/32" in Section 5.4. Expanded the deﬁnition of "type" in Sections
5.4 and 5.5. Modiﬁed example autnums in Section 5.5. Added text to the Security
Considerations section to note that DNSSEC information returned in a response cannot be
trusted directly.

Acknowledgments

This document is derived from original work on RIR responses in JSON by
Arturo L. Servin Kaveh Ranjbar
,
incorporates work on DNR responses in JSON by
Shen

Andrew L. Newton

, and

,

,

.

. Additionally, this document

Ning Kong Linlin Zhou Jiagui Xie

, and

Sean

Byron J. Ellacott

,

The components of the DNR object classes are derived from a categorization of WHOIS response
formats created by
Bellis

Ning Kong Linlin Zhou Guangqing Deng Steve Sheng Francisco Arias Ray

Frederico Neves
.

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Tom Harrison Murray Kucherawy Ed Lewis Audric Schiltknecht Naoki Kambe Maarten
,
Bosteels Mario Loﬀredo
provided clarifying text.
attributes and identiﬁed issues leading to the remodeling of events.
Obispo

,
 contributed signiﬁcant review comments and

 provided concrete suggestions that led to a better variant model for domain names.

, and
James Mitchell

,
Jasdip Singh

 provided text regarding the processing of unknown JSON

Ernie Dainow

Francisco

 and

,

 provided the background information on the secure DNS attributes and objects for

Ernie Dainow
domains, informative text on DNSSEC, and many other attributes that appear throughout the
object classes of this document.

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 80

RFC 9083

RDAP JSON Responses

June 2021

The switch to and incorporation of jCard was performed by

Simon Perreault

.

 and

Murray Kucherawy
Olaf Kolkman
this document was originally created.
Working Group that worked on this document.

 chaired the IETF's WEIRDS Working Group from which
Antoin Verschuren
James Galvin

 chaired the REGEXT

 and

Authors' Addresses

Scott Hollenbeck
Verisign Labs
12061 Bluemont Way
Reston VA 20190
United States of America
Email:
URI:

,

 shollenbeck@verisign.com
 https://www.verisignlabs.com/

Andy Newton
Amazon Web Services, Inc.
13200 Woodland Park Road
Herndon VA 20171
,
United States of America
Email:

 andy@hxr.us

Hollenbeck & Newton

Standards Track

Page 81

