Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9608
5280
Standards Track
June 2024
2070-1721
R. Housley
Vigil Security

T. Okubo
DigiCert

J. Mandel
AKAYLA, Inc.

RFC 9608
No Revocation Available for X.509 Public Key
Certificates

Abstract

X.509v3 public key certificates are profiled in RFC 5280. Short-lived certificates are seeing greater
use in the Internet. The Certification Authority (CA) that issues these short-lived certificates do
not publish revocation information because the certificate lifespan that is shorter than the time
needed to detect, report, and distribute revocation information. Some long-lived X.509v3 public
key certificates never expire, and they are never revoked. This specification defines the
noRevAvail certificate extension so that a relying party can readily determine that the CA does
not publish revocation information for the certificate, and it updates the certification path
validation algorithm defined in RFC 5280 so that revocation checking is skipped when the
noRevAvail certificate extension is present.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9608
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9608

NoRevAvail for Public Key Certificates

June 2024

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

1.2.  ASN.1

1.3.  History

2.  The noRevAvail Certificate Extension

3.  Other X.509 Certificate Extensions

4.  Certification Path Validation

5.  ASN.1 Module

6.  Security Considerations

6.1.  Short-Lived Certificates

6.2.  Long-Lived Certificates

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

4

5

5

6

7

7

7

7

7

8

9

9

[RFC5280]

X.509v3 public key certificates
Internet. For example, Automatic Certificate Management Environment (ACME)
provides a straightforward way to obtain short-lived certificates. In many cases, no revocation
information is made available for short-lived certificates by the Certification Authority (CA). This
is because short-lived certificates have a validity period that is shorter than the time needed to

 with short validity periods are seeing greater use in the

[RFC8555]

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9608

NoRevAvail for Public Key Certificates

June 2024

detect, report, and distribute revocation information. As a result, revoking a short-lived
certificate that is used for authentication or key management is unnecessary and pointless. On
the other hand, revoking a certificate associated with a long-lived signature, such as document
signing or code signing, provides some important information about when a compromise was
discovered.

Some long-lived X.509v3 public key certificates never expire, and they are never revoked. For
example, a factory might include an IDevID certificate
device identity to a factory-installed public key. This identity might include the manufacturer,
model, and serial number of the device, which never change. To indicate that a certificate has no
well-defined expiration date, the notAfter date in the certificate validity period is set to
"99991231235959Z"

 to bind the factory-assigned

[IEEE802.1AR]

[RFC5280]
.

This specification defines the noRevAvail certificate extension so that a relying party can readily
determine that the CA does not publish revocation information for the end-entity certificate, and
it updates the certification path validation algorithm defined in
checking is skipped when the noRevAvail certificate extension is present.

 so that revocation

[RFC5280]

[RFC6960]

. The ocsp-nocheck certificate extension is appropriate for

Note that the noRevAvail certificate extension provides similar functionality to the ocsp-nocheck
certificate extension
inclusion only in certificates issued to Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) responders,
whereas the noRevAvail certificate extension is appropriate in any end-entity certificate for
which the CA will not publish revocation information. To avoid disruption to the OCSP
ecosystem, implementers should not think of the noRevAvail certificate extension a substitute for
the ocsp-nocheck certificate extension; however, the noRevAvail certificate extension could be
included in certificates issued to OCSP responders in addition to the ocsp-nocheck certificate
extension.

1.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  ASN.1

X.509 certificates are generated using ASN.1
the Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)

[X.680]
[X.690]
.

, using the Basic Encoding Rules (BER) and

1.3.  History

In 1988, CCITT defined the X.509v1 certificate

[X.509-1988]
.

In 1997, ITU-T defined the X.509v3 certificate and the attribute certificate

[X.509-1997]
.

In 1999, the IETF first profiled the X.509v3 certificate for use in the Internet

[RFC2459]
.

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9608

NoRevAvail for Public Key Certificates

June 2024

In 2000, ITU-T defined the noRevAvail certificate extension for use with attribute certificates
509-2000]
.

[X.

In 2002, the IETF first profiled the attribute certificate for use in the Internet
profile included support for the noRevAvail certificate extension.

[RFC3281]

, and this

In 2019, ITU-T published an update to ITU-T Recommendation X.509

[X.509-2019]
.

With greater use of short-lived certificates in the Internet, the recent Technical Corrigendum to
ITU-T Recommendation X.509
 allows the noRevAvail certificate extension to be
used with public key certificates as well as attribute certificates.

[X.509-2019-TC2]

2.  The noRevAvail Certificate Extension

[X.509-2019-TC2]
The noRevAvail extension, defined in
information will be made available for this certificate.

, allows a CA to indicate that no revocation

This extension

MUST NOT

 be present in CA public key certificates.

Conforming CAs
will be published. When present, conforming CAs

MUST

 include this extension in certificates for which no revocation information

MUST

 mark this extension as non-critical.

name           id-ce-noRevAvail
OID            { id-ce 56 }
syntax         NULL (i.e. '0500'H is the DER encoding)
criticality    MUST be FALSE

A relying party that does not understand this extension might be able to find a Certificate
Revocation List (CRL) from the CA, but the CRL will never include an entry for the certificate
containing this extension.

3.  Other X.509 Certificate Extensions

Certificates for CAs
noRevAvail extension
provide locations of OCSP responders. If the noRevAvail extension is present in a certificate, then:

 include the noRevAvail extension. Certificates that include the

 include certificate extensions that point to CRL repositories or

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

•

The certificate
BOOLEAN set to TRUE; see

MUST NOT

Section 4.2.1.9 of [RFC5280]
.

 also include the basic constraints certificate extension with the cA

•

The certificate
Section 4.2.1.13 of [RFC5280]
.

MUST NOT

 also include the CRL Distribution Points certificate extension; see

•

The certificate
MUST NOT
4.2.1.15 of [RFC5280]
.

 also include the Freshest CRL certificate extension; see

Section

•

The Authority Information Access certificate extension, if present,
ad-ocsp accessMethod; see

Section 4.2.2.1 of [RFC5280]
.

MUST NOT

 include an id-

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9608

NoRevAvail for Public Key Certificates

June 2024

If any of the above are violated in a certificate, then the relying party
certificate invalid.

MUST

 consider the

4.  Certification Path Validation

Section 6.1.3 of [RFC5280]
validation procedures. In particular, Step (a)(3) says:

 describes basic certificate processing within the certification path

At the current time, the certificate is not revoked. This may be determined by obtaining
the appropriate CRL (Section 6.3), by status information, or by out-of-band mechanisms.

If the noRevAvail certificate extension specified in this document is present or the ocsp-nocheck
[RFC6960]
certificate extension
status determination of the certificate is performed.

 is present, then Step (a)(3) is skipped. Otherwise, revocation

5.  ASN.1 Module

This section provides an ASN.1 module
follows the conventions established in

[X.680]
[RFC5912]

 and

[RFC6268]
.

 for the noRevAvail certificate extension, and it

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9608

NoRevAvail for Public Key Certificates

June 2024

<CODE BEGINS>
  NoRevAvailExtn
    { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
      security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
      id-mod-noRevAvail(110) }

  DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::=
  BEGIN

  IMPORTS
    EXTENSION
    FROM PKIX-CommonTypes-2009  -- RFC 5912
      { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
        security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
        id-mod-pkixCommon-02(57) } ;

  -- noRevAvail Certificate Extension

  ext-noRevAvail EXTENSION ::= {
    SYNTAX NULL
    IDENTIFIED BY id-ce-noRevAvail
    CRITICALITY { FALSE } }

  -- noRevAvail Certificate Extension OID

  id-ce OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-ccitt(2) ds(5) 29 }

  id-ce-noRevAvail OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-ce 56 }

  END

<CODE ENDS>

6.  Security Considerations

The Security Considerations in

[RFC5280]

 are relevant.

When the noRevAvail certificate extension is included in a certificate, all revocation checking is
bypassed. CA policies and practices
 ensure that the noRevAvail certificate extension is
included only when appropriate, as any misuse or misconfiguration could result in a relying
party continuing to trust a revoked certificate. When such misuse is discovered, the only possible
remediation is the revocation of the CA.

MUST

Some applications may have dependencies on revocation information or assume its availability.
The absence of revocation information may require modifications or alternative configuration
settings to ensure proper application security and functionality.

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9608

NoRevAvail for Public Key Certificates

June 2024

The absence of revocation information limits the ability of relying parties to detect compromise
of end-entity keying material or malicious certificates. It also limits their ability to detect CAs that
are not following the security practices, certificate issuance policies, and operational controls
that are specified in the Certificate Policy (CP) or the Certification Practices Statement (CPS)
[RFC3647]
.

Since the absence of revocation information may limit the ability to detect compromised keying
material or malicious certificates, relying parties need confidence that the CA is following
security practices, implementing certificate issuance policies, and properly using operational
controls. Relying parties may evaluate CA reliability, monitor CA performance, and observe CA
incident response capabilities.

6.1.  Short-Lived Certificates

No revocation information is made available for short-lived certificates because the certificate
validity period is shorter than the time needed to detect, report, and distribute revocation
information. If the noRevAvail certificate extension is incorrectly used for a certificate validity
period that is not adequately short, it creates a window of opportunity for attackers to exploit a
compromised private key. Therefore, it is crucial to carefully assess and set an appropriate
certificate validity period before implementing the noRevAvail certificate extension.

6.2.  Long-Lived Certificates

No revocation information is made available for some long-lived certificates that contain
information that never changes. For example, IDevID certificates
devices at the factory, and they are used to obtain LDevID certificates
operational environment. In this case, cryptographic algorithms that are expected to remain
secure for the expected lifetime of the device need to be chosen. If the noRevAvail certificate
extension is used, the CA has no means of notifying the relying party about compromise of the
factory-installed keying material.

 are included in
 in an

[IEEE802.1AR]

[IEEE802.1AR]

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned the following object identifier (OID) for the ASN.1 module (see Section 5)
within the "SMI Security for PKIX Module Identifier" (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.0) registry:

Decimal

Description

110

Table 1

id-mod-noRevAvail

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9608

NoRevAvail for Public Key Certificates

June 2024

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

[X.509-2019-TC2]

ITU-T "Information Technology -- Open Systems Interconnection -- The

,

Directory: Public-key and attribute certificate frameworks -- Technical
Corrigendum 2" ITU-T Recommendation X.509-2019/Cor.2-2023
<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.509-202310-I!Cor2>

,

.

, October 2023,

[X.680]

[X.690]

,

ITU-T "Information technology -- Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):
Specification of basic notation" ITU-T Recommendation X.680 ISO/IEC
8824-1:2021

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.680>

, February 2021,

,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information technology -- ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690 ISO/IEC 8825-1-2021
February 2021,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690>

,
.

,

,

8.2.  Informative References

[IEEE802.1AR]

[RFC2459]

[RFC3281]

[RFC3647]

[RFC5912]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks - Secure Device
Identity" IEEE 802.1AR-2018 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2018.8423794
, 2 August 2018,
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8423794>

.

,

,

,

Housley, R. Ford, W. Polk, W.
Infrastructure Certificate and CRL Profile" RFC 2459 DOI 10.17487/RFC2459
January 1999,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2459>

D. Solo "Internet X.509 Public Key

, and

,
,

,

,

.

,

 and

Farrell, S.
Authorization" RFC 3281 DOI 10.17487/RFC3281
editor.org/info/rfc3281>
.

R. Housley "An Internet Attribute Certificate Profile for
,

, April 2002,

,
,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Chokhani, S. Ford, W. Sabett, R. Merrill, C.
,
Key Infrastructure Certificate Policy and Certification Practices Framework"
RFC 3647 DOI 10.17487/RFC3647
info/rfc3647>

S. Wu "Internet X.509 Public
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 2003,

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for the Public Key

Hoffman, P.
Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)" RFC 5912 DOI 10.17487/RFC5912
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5912>

,

,

.

, June 2010,

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9608

NoRevAvail for Public Key Certificates

June 2024

[RFC6268]

[RFC6960]

[RFC8555]

[X.509-1988]

[X.509-1997]

[X.509-2000]

[X.509-2019]

,

 and

S. Turner "Additional New ASN.1 Modules for the Cryptographic

Schaad, J.
Message Syntax (CMS) and the Public Key Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)"
,
RFC 6268 DOI 10.17487/RFC6268
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, July 2011,
rfc6268>

,
.

,

,

Santesson, S. Myers, M. Ankney, R. Malpani, A. Galperin, S.
C. Adams "X.
509 Internet Public Key Infrastructure Online Certificate Status Protocol - OCSP"
,
RFC 6960 DOI 10.17487/RFC6960
rfc6960>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2013,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Barnes, R. Hoffman-Andrews, J. McCarney, D.
J. Kasten "Automatic
Certificate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8555 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8555

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8555>

, March 2019,

, and
,

,

,

,

.

,

CCITT "The Directory - Authentication Framework" CCITT Recommendation X.
509-1988

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.509-198811-S>

, November 1988,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information technology -- Open Systems Interconnection -- The
Directory: Authentication framework" ITU-T Recommendation X.509-1997
<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.509-199708-S>
August 1997,

.

,

,

,

ITU-T "Information Technology -- Open Systems Interconnection -- The
Directory: Public-key and attribute certificate frameworks" ITU-T
Recommendation X.509-2000
509-200003-S>
.

,
<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.

, March 2000,

,

ITU-T "Information Technology -- Open Systems Interconnection -- The
Directory: Public-key and attribute certificate frameworks" ITU-T
Recommendation X.509-2019
509-201910-I>
.

, October 2019,

,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.

Acknowledgements

Many thanks to
available for use with public key end-entity certificates as well as attribute certificates.

 for his efforts to make the noRevAvail certificate extension

Erik Anderson

Many thanks to (in alphabetical order)
Ounsworth Seo Suchan Carl Wallace Éric Vyncke
,
,
insightful comments.

,

,
, and

Corey Bonnell Hendrik Brockhaus Tim Hollebeek Mike

Paul Wouters

,

,
 for their review and

Authors' Addresses

Russ Housley
Vigil Security, LLC
Herndon Virginia
,
United States of America
Email:

 housley@vigilsec.com

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9608

NoRevAvail for Public Key Certificates

June 2024

Tomofumi Okubo
DigiCert, Inc.
Fairfax Virginia
,
United States of America
Email:

 tomofumi.okubo+ietf@gmail.com

Joseph Mandel
AKAYLA, Inc.
Tacoma Washington
United States of America
Email:
 joe@akayla.com

,

Housley, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

