Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9131
4861
Standards Track
October 2021
2070-1721
J. Linkova
Google

RFC 9131
Gratuitous Neighbor Discovery: Creating Neighbor
Cache Entries on First‑Hop Routers

Abstract

Neighbor Discovery (RFC 4861) is used by IPv6 nodes to determine the link-layer addresses of
neighboring nodes as well as to discover and maintain reachability information. This document
updates RFC 4861 to allow routers to proactively create a Neighbor Cache entry when a new IPv6
address is assigned to a node. It also updates RFC 4861 and recommends that nodes send
unsolicited Neighbor Advertisements upon assigning a new IPv6 address. These changes will
minimize the delay and packet loss when a node initiates connections to an oﬀ-link destination
from a new IPv6 address.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9131

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Terminology

2.  Problem Statement

3.  Solution Requirements

4.  Changes to Neighbor Discovery

4.1.  Nodes Sending Gratuitous Neighbor Advertisements

4.2.  Routers Creating Cache Entries upon Receiving Unsolicited Neighbor Advertisements

5.  Avoiding Disruption

5.1.  Neighbor Cache Entry Exists in Any State Other Than INCOMPLETE

5.2.  Neighbor Cache Entry Is in INCOMPLETE State

5.3.  Neighbor Cache Entry Does Not Exist

5.3.1.  The Rightful Owner Is Not Sending Packets from the Address

5.3.2.  The Rightful Owner Has Started Sending Packets from the Address

6.  Modiﬁcations to RFC-Mandated Behavior

6.1.  Modiﬁcation to RFC 4861 (Neighbor Discovery for IP version 6 (IPv6))

6.1.1.  Modiﬁcation to Section 7.2.5 of RFC 4861

6.1.2.  Modiﬁcation to Section 7.2.6 of RFC 4861

7.  Solution Limitations

8.  Solutions Considered but Discarded

8.1.  Do Nothing

8.2.  Change to the Registration-Based Neighbor Discovery

8.3.  Host Sending NS to the Router Address from Its GUA

8.4.  Host Sending Router Solicitation from Its GUA

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

8.5.  Routers Populating Their Caches by Gleaning from Neighbor Discovery Packets

8.6.  Initiating Host-to-Router Communication

8.7.  Making the Probing Logic on Hosts More Robust

8.8.  Increasing the Buﬀer Size on Routers

8.9.  Transit Data Plane Traﬃc from a New Address to Trigger Address Resolution

9.  IANA Considerations

10. Security Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

The Neighbor Discovery state machine deﬁned in
between IPv6 nodes are, in most cases, bidirectional and if a node A is trying to communicate to
its neighbor, node B, the return traﬃc ﬂows could be expected. So, when node A starts the
address resolution process, the target node B would also create an entry containing A's IPv6 and
link-layer addresses in its Neighbor Cache. That entry will be used for sending the return traﬃc
to A.

 assumes that communications

[RFC4861]

In particular,

Section 7.2.5 of [RFC4861]

 states:

When a valid Neighbor Advertisement is received (either solicited or unsolicited), the
Neighbor Cache is searched for the target's entry. If no entry exists, the advertisement
 be silently discarded. There is no need to create an entry if none exists, since
SHOULD
the recipient has apparently not initiated any communication with the target.

While this approach is perfectly suitable for host-to-host on-link communications, it does not
work so well when a host sends traﬃc to oﬀ-link destinations. After joining the network and
receiving a Router Advertisement, the host populates its Neighbor Cache with the default router
IPv6 and link-layer addresses and is able to send traﬃc to oﬀ-link destinations. At the same time,
the router does not have any cache entries for the host global addresses yet and only starts
address resolution upon receiving the ﬁrst packet of the return traﬃc ﬂow. While waiting for the
resolution to complete, routers only keep a very small number of packets in the queue, as

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

recommended in
resolution process ﬁnishes are likely to result in dropped packets. It can cause packet loss and
performance degradation that can be visible to users.

. Any additional packets arriving before the

Section 7.2.2 of [RFC4861]

 to avoid packet loss in the
This document updates the Neighbor Discovery protocol
scenario described above. Section 4 discusses the changes and analyzes the potential impact,
while normative changes to

 are speciﬁed in Section 6.

[RFC4861]

[RFC4861]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Terminology

Node:

A device that implements IP

[RFC4861]

.

Host:

Any node that is not a router

[RFC4861]

.

ND:

Neighbor Discovery

[RFC4861]

.

NC:

Neighbor Cache

[RFC4861]

. The Neighbor Cache entry can be in one of ﬁve states, as

described in

Section 7.3.2 of [RFC4861]

: INCOMPLETE, REACHABLE, STALE, DELAY, or PROBE.

SLAAC:

IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconﬁguration

[RFC4862]

.

NS:

Neighbor Solicitation

[RFC4861]

.

NA:

Neighbor Advertisement

[RFC4861]

.

RS:

Router Solicitation

[RFC4861]

.

RA:

Router Advertisement

[RFC4861]

.

SLLAO:

Source Link-Layer Address Option. An option in the ND packets containing the link-

layer address of the sender of the packet

[RFC4861]

.

TLLAO:

Target Link-Layer Address Option. An option in the ND packets containing the link-

layer address of the target

[RFC4861]

.

GUA:

Global Unicast Address

[RFC4291]

.

DAD:

Duplicate Address Detection

[RFC4862]

.

Preferred Address:

An address assigned to an interface whose uniqueness has been veriﬁed

using DAD and whose use by upper-layer protocols is unrestricted
addresses may be used as the source address of packets sent from the interface.

[RFC4862]

. Preferred

Optimistic DAD:

A modiﬁcation of DAD

[RFC4429]

.

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

2.  Problem Statement

The most typical scenario when the problem described in this document may arise is a host
joining the network, forming a new address, and using that address for accessing the Internet:

1.

A host joins the network and receives a Router Advertisement (RA) packet from the ﬁrst-hop
router (either a periodic unsolicited RA or a response to a Router Solicitation sent by the
host). The RA contains information the host needs to perform SLAAC and to conﬁgure its
network stack. The RA is sent from the router's link-local address to a link-local destination
address and may contain the link-layer address of the router. As a result, the host can
populate its Neighbor Cache with the router's link-local and link-layer addresses.

2.

The host starts opening connections to oﬀ-link destinations. A very common use case is a
mobile device sending probes to detect Internet connectivity and/or the presence of a captive
portal on the network. To speed up that process, many implementations use Optimistic DAD,
which allows them to send probes before the DAD process is completed. At that moment, the
device's Neighbor Cache contains all information required to send those probes (such as the
default router link-local and link-layer addresses). The router's Neighbor Cache, however,
might contain an entry for the device's link-local address (if the device has been performing
address resolution for the router's link-local address), but there are no entries for any of the
device's global addresses.

3.

Return traﬃc is received by the ﬁrst-hop router. As the router does not have any cache entry
for the host's global address yet, the router starts the Neighbor Discovery process by creating
an INCOMPLETE cache entry and then sending a Neighbor Solicitation to the solicited-node
multicast address (
MUST
destination address. However, most router implementations limit the buﬀer size to a few
packets only, and some implementations are known to buﬀer just one packet. So, any
subsequent packets arriving before the address resolution process is completed cause packet
loss by replacing older packets in the buﬀer.

Section 7.2.2 of [RFC4861]
 buﬀer more, while resolving the packet

 buﬀer at least one data packet and

Section 7.3.2 of [RFC4861]

, routers

). As per

MAY

4.

If the host sends multiple probes in parallel, in the worst case, it would consider all but one
of them failed. That leads to user-visible delay in connecting to the network, especially if the
host implements some form of backoﬀ mechanism and does not retransmit the probes as
soon as possible.

This scenario illustrates the problem occurring when the device connects to the network for the
ﬁrst time or after an inactivity period long enough for the device's address to be removed from
the router's Neighbor Cache. However, the same sequence of events happens when the host
starts using a new global address previously unseen by the router, such as a new privacy address
[RFC8981]

 or if the router's Neighbor Cache has been ﬂushed.

While in dual-stack networks this problem might be hidden by Happy Eyeballs
manifests quite clearly in IPv6-only environments, especially wireless environments, leading to
poor user experience and contributing to a negative perception of IPv6-only solutions as
unstable and non-deployable.

[RFC8305]

, it

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

3.  Solution Requirements

It would be highly desirable to improve the Neighbor Discovery mechanics so routers have a
usable cache entry for a host address by the time the router receives the ﬁrst packet for that
address. In particular:

•

If the router does not have a Neighbor Cache entry for the address, a STALE entry needs to
be created proactively, prior to arrival of the ﬁrst packet intended for that address.

•

The solution needs to work for Optimistic Addresses as well. Devices implementing
Optimistic DAD usually attempt to minimize the delay in connecting to the network and
therefore are more likely to be aﬀected by the problem described in this document.

•

In the case of duplicate addresses present in the network, the solution should not override
the existing entry.

•

In topologies with multiple ﬁrst-hop routers, the cache needs to be updated on all of them, as
traﬃc might be asymmetric: outgoing ﬂows leaving the network via one router while the
return traﬃc enters the segment via another one.

In addition, the solution must not exacerbate issues described in
compatible with the recommendations provided in

.
[RFC6583]

[RFC6583]

 and needs to be

4.  Changes to Neighbor Discovery

The following changes are required to minimize the delay in creating new entries in a router's
Neighbor Cache:

•

A node sends unsolicited NAs upon assigning a new IPv6 address to its interface.

•

A router creates a new cache entry upon receiving an unsolicited NA from a host.

The following sections discuss these changes in more detail. Normative changes are speciﬁed in
Section 6.

4.1.  Nodes Sending Gratuitous Neighbor Advertisements

 discusses using unsolicited Neighbor Advertisements to inform node

Section 7.2.6 of [RFC4861]
neighbors of the new link-layer address quickly. The same mechanism could be used to notify the
node neighbors about the new network-layer address as well: the node can send unsolicited
Neighbor Advertisements upon assigning a new IPv6 address to its interface.

To minimize potential disruption in the case of duplicate addresses, the node should not set the
Override ﬂag for a preferred address and must not set the Override ﬂag if the address is in the
Optimistic state

.
[RFC4429]

As the main purpose of sending unsolicited NAs upon conﬁguring a new address is to proactively
create a Neighbor Cache entry on the ﬁrst-hop routers, the gratuitous NAs are sent to the all-
routers multicast address (ﬀ02::2). Limiting the recipients to routers only would help reduce the

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

multicast noise level. If the link-layer devices are performing Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD)
snooping
, then those unsolicited NAs will only be sent to routers on the given network
segment/link, instead of being ﬂooded to all nodes.

[RFC4541]

It should be noted that the mechanism discussed here does not cause any signiﬁcant increase in
multicast traﬃc. The additional multicast unsolicited NAs would proactively create a STALE
cache entry on the router, as discussed below. When the router receives the return traﬃc ﬂows,
it does not need to send multicast NSes to the solicited-node multicast address but would send
unicast NSes instead. Therefore, this procedure would only produce an increase in the overall
amount of multicast traﬃc if no return traﬃc arrives for the address that sent the unsolicited NA
or if the router does not create a STALE entry upon receiving such an NA. The increase would be
negligible, as that additional traﬃc is a few orders of magnitude less than the usual level of
Neighbor Discovery multicast traﬃc.

4.2.  Routers Creating Cache Entries upon Receiving Unsolicited Neighbor
Advertisements

Section 7.2.5 of [RFC4861]

 states:

When a valid Neighbor Advertisement is received (either solicited or unsolicited), the
Neighbor Cache is searched for the target's entry. If no entry exists, the advertisement
 be silently discarded. There is no need to create an entry if none exists, since
SHOULD
the recipient has apparently not initiated any communication with the target.

The reasoning behind dropping unsolicited Neighbor Advertisements ("the recipient has
apparently not initiated any communication with the target") is valid for on-link host-to-host
communication but, as discussed in Section 1, it does not really apply to the scenario when the
host is announcing its address to routers. Therefore, it would be beneﬁcial to allow routers to
create new entries upon receiving an unsolicited Neighbor Advertisement.

[RFC4861]

This document updates
receiving an unsolicited Neighbor Advertisement for an address that does not already have a
Neighbor Cache entry. These changes do not modify the router behavior speciﬁed in
for the scenario when the corresponding Neighbor Cache entry already exists.

 so that routers create a new Neighbor Cache entry upon

[RFC4861]

The next section analyzes various scenarios of duplicate addresses and discusses the potential
impact of creating a STALE entry for a duplicate IPv6 address.

5.  Avoiding Disruption

[RFC4862]

If nodes following the recommendations in this document are using the DAD mechanism deﬁned
in
, they would send unsolicited NAs as soon as the address changes state from
tentative to preferred (after its uniqueness has been veriﬁed). However, nodes willing to
minimize network stack conﬁguration delays might be using Optimistic Addresses, which means
there is a possibility of the address not being unique on the link.

Section 2.2 of [RFC4429]

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

discusses measures to ensure that ND packets from the Optimistic Address do not override any
existing Neighbor Cache entries, as it would cause interruption of the rightful address owner's
traﬃc in the case of an address conﬂict. Nodes that are willing to speed up their network stack
conﬁguration are most likely to be aﬀected by the problem outlined in this document; therefore,
it seems reasonable for such hosts to advertise their Optimistic Addresses by sending unsolicited
NAs. The main question to consider is the potential risk of overriding the cache entry for the
rightful address owner if the Optimistic Address happens to be a duplicate.

The following sections discuss the address collision scenario when a node sends an unsolicited
NA for an address in the Optimistic state, while another node (the rightful owner) already has
the same address assigned. This document uses the term "the rightful owner", as the same
terminology is used in
5.4 of [RFC4862]
assigning them to an interface.

. The analysis assumes that the host performs DAD, as
 be performed on all unicast addresses prior to

 requires that DAD

[RFC4429]

Section

MUST

5.1.  Neighbor Cache Entry Exists in Any State Other Than INCOMPLETE

If the router's Neighbor Cache entry for the target address already exists in any state other than
INCOMPLETE, then as per
cleared would change the entry state from REACHABLE to STALE but would not update the entry
in any other way. Therefore, even if the host sends an unsolicited NA from its Optimistic Address,
the router's cache entry would not be updated with the new link-layer address, and no impact on
the traﬃc for the rightful address owner is expected.

, an unsolicited NA with the Override ﬂag

Section 7.2.5 of [RFC4861]

The return traﬃc intended for the host with the Optimistic Address would be sent to the rightful
owner. However, this is unavoidable with or without the unsolicited NA mechanism.

5.2.  Neighbor Cache Entry Is in INCOMPLETE State

Another corner case is the INCOMPLETE cache entry for the address.

1.

The router receives a packet for the rightful owner of the address.

2.

The router starts the address resolution process by creating an INCOMPLETE entry and
sends the multicast NS.

3.

More packets arrive at the router for the address in question.

4.

The host conﬁgures an Optimistic Address and sends an unsolicited NA.

5.

The router creates a STALE entry and sends the buﬀered packet(s) to the host (while at least
some of those packets are actually intended for the rightful owner).

6.

As the STALE entry was used to send packets, the router changes the entry state to DELAY
and waits up to DELAY_FIRST_PROBE_TIME (5 seconds)
NS.

 before sending a unicast

[RFC4861]

7.

The rightful owner responds to the multicast NS sent at Step 2 with a solicited NA with the
Override ﬂag set.

8.

The router updates the entry with the TLLAO supplied (the rightful owner's link-layer
address) and sets the entry state to REACHABLE (as the NA has the Solicited ﬂag set).

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

As a result, some packets (packets in the buﬀer at Step 6 and all packets arriving between Step 6
and Step 8) are delivered to the host with the Optimistic Address, while some of them, if not all,
are intended for the rightful owner. Without the unsolicited NA, one or more packets that are in
the buﬀer at Step 8 (usually just one packet, but some routers may buﬀer a few) would have been
delivered to the rightful owner and the rest of the packets would have been dropped. However,
the probability of such a scenario is rather low, as it would require the following things to
happen almost simultaneously (within tens of milliseconds in most cases):

•

One host starts using a new IPv6 address and sending traﬃc without sending an unsolicited
NA ﬁrst.

•

Another host conﬁgures the same IPv6 address in Optimistic mode before the router
completes the address resolution process for the rightful owner.

It should be noted that in this scenario the rightful owner does not send any unsolicited NAs
before sending packets. If the rightful owner implements the functionality described in this
document and sends unsolicited NAs upon conﬁguring its address, then the router creates a
STALE entry for the address, causing all packets to be delivered to the rightful owner (see Section
5.1). The rightful owner would experience no disruption but might receive some packets
intended for the host with an Optimistic Address.

This section focuses on the scenario when the solicited NA from the rightful owner arrives after
the unsolicited one sent from the Optimistic Address (Step 7 and Step 4, respectively). If the
solicited NA arrives ﬁrst, it changes the NC entry state from INCOMPLETE to REACHABLE. As
discussed in Section 5.1, there will be no disruption for the rightful owner if the router already
has a REACHABLE entry for the address when an unsolicited NA is received.

5.3.  Neighbor Cache Entry Does Not Exist

There are two distinct scenarios that can lead to the situation when the router does not have an
NC entry for the IPv6 address:

1.

The rightful owner of the address has not been using it for oﬀ-link communication recently
or has never used it at all.

2.

The rightful owner just started sending packets from that address, but the router has not
received any return traﬃc yet.

The impact on the rightful owner's traﬃc ﬂows would be diﬀerent in those cases.

5.3.1.  The Rightful Owner Is Not Sending Packets from the Address

In this scenario, the following events are expected to happen:

1.

The host conﬁgures the address and sets its state to Optimistic.

2.

The host sends an unsolicited NA with the Override ﬂag set to zero and starts sending traﬃc
from the Optimistic Address.

3.

The router creates a STALE entry for the address and the host link-layer address.

4.

The host starts DAD and detects the address duplication.

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

5.

6.

7.

The router receives the return traﬃc for the duplicate address. As the NC entry is STALE, it
sends traﬃc using that entry, changes it to DELAY, and waits up to
DELAY_FIRST_PROBE_TIME seconds

[RFC4861]

.

The router changes the NC entry state to PROBE and sends up to MAX_UNICAST_SOLICIT
 separated by RetransTimer milliseconds
unicast NSes
layer address.

[RFC4861]

[RFC4861]

 to the host link-

As the host has already detected the address conﬂict, it does not respond to the unicast NSes.
(It is unlikely that the host has not completed the DAD process at this stage, as
DELAY_FIRST_PROBE_TIME (5 seconds) is much higher than the DAD duration
(DupAddrDetectTransmits*RetransTimer*1000 + MAX_RTR_SOLICITATION_DELAY seconds)
(
).) The default value for the DAD process would be 1*1*1000 + 1 = 2
Section 5.4 of [RFC4862]
seconds
[RFC4861]
then there are two hosts with the same address in the preferred state and disruption is
inevitable anyway.

. If the host has completed DAD but did not detect the address conﬂict,

8.

As the router receives no response for the unicast NSes, it deletes the NC entry.

9.

If return packets for communication initiated at Step 2 are still arriving, the router buﬀers a
small number of those packets and starts the address resolution process again by sending a
multicast NS to the solicited-node multicast address. The rightful owner responds, and the
router's NC entry is updated with the rightful owner's link-local address. The buﬀered packet
or packets are sent to that address. Any packets still arriving after the address resolution
process has completed are sent to the rightful address owner as well.

The rightful owner is not experiencing any disruption, as it does not send any traﬃc. It would
only start receiving packets intended for another host after Step 8 is completed and only if return
packets for the communication initiated at Step 2 are still arriving.

However, the same behavior would be observed if the changes speciﬁed in this document are not
implemented. If the host starts sending packets from its Optimistic Address but then detects that
the address is a duplicate, the ﬁrst return packet would trigger the address resolution process
and would be buﬀered until the resolution is completed. The buﬀered packet(s) and any packets
still arriving after the address is resolved would be forwarded to the rightful owner of the
address. So, the rightful owner might still receive one or more packets from the ﬂows intended
for another host. Therefore, it's safe to conclude that the changes speciﬁed in this document do
not introduce any disruption for the rightful owner of the duplicated address.

5.3.2.  The Rightful Owner Has Started Sending Packets from the Address

In this scenario, the following events are happening:

1.

The rightful owner starts sending traﬃc from the address (e.g., the address has just been
conﬁgured or has not been recently used).

2.

The host conﬁgures the address and sets its state to Optimistic.

3.

The host sends an unsolicited NA with the Override ﬂag set to zero and starts sending traﬃc
from the Optimistic Address.

4.

The router creates a STALE entry for the address and the host link-layer address.

5.

The host starts DAD and detects the address duplication.

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

6.

7.

The router receives the return traﬃc for the IPv6 address in question. Some ﬂows are
intended for the rightful owner of the duplicate address, while some are for the new host. As
the NC entry is STALE, it sends traﬃc using that entry, changes it to DELAY, and waits up to
DELAY_FIRST_PROBE_TIME seconds

[RFC4861]

.

The router changes the NC entry state to PROBE and sends up to MAX_UNICAST_SOLICIT
unicast NSes
 separated by RetransTimer milliseconds
layer address.

[RFC4861]

[RFC4861]

 to the host link-

8.

As the host has already detected the address conﬂict, it does not respond to the unicast NSes.

9.

As the router receives no response for the unicast NSes, it deletes the NC entry.

10.

The next packet recreates the entry and triggers the resolution process. The router buﬀers
the packet and sends a multicast NS to the solicited-node multicast address. The rightful
owner responds, and the router's NC entry is updated with the rightful owner's link-local
address.

As a result, the traﬃc for the address of the rightful owner would be sent to the host with the
duplicate address instead. The duration of the disruption can be estimated as
DELAY_FIRST_PROBE_TIME*1000 + (MAX_UNICAST_SOLICIT - 1)*RetransTimer milliseconds. As
per the constants deﬁned in
= 7000 milliseconds, or 7 seconds.

, this interval is equal to 5*1000 + (3 - 1)*1000

Section 10 of [RFC4861]

However, it should be noted that the probability of such a scenario is rather low. Similar to the
scenario discussed in Section 5.2, it would require the following things to happen almost
simultaneously (within tens of milliseconds in most cases):

•

One host starts using a new IPv6 address and sending traﬃc without sending an unsolicited
NA ﬁrst.

•

Another host conﬁgures the same IPv6 address in Optimistic mode before the router receives
the return traﬃc for the ﬁrst host.

As discussed in Section 5.2, the disruption for the rightful owner can easily be prevented if that
node implements the mechanism described in this document. Sending unsolicited NAs before
initiating oﬀ-link communication would create a STALE entry in the router's NC and prevent any
traﬃc to that address from being sent to the host with the Optimistic Address (see Section 5.1).

6.  Modiﬁcations to RFC-Mandated Behavior

All normative text in this memo is contained in this section.

6.1.  Modiﬁcation to RFC 4861 (Neighbor Discovery for IP version 6 (IPv6))

6.1.1.  Modiﬁcation to Section 7.2.5 of RFC 4861

This document makes the following changes to

Section 7.2.5 of [RFC4861]

:

The text in RFC 4861 is as follows:

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

When a valid Neighbor Advertisement is received (either solicited or unsolicited), the
Neighbor Cache is searched for the target's entry. If no entry exists, the advertisement
 be silently discarded. There is no need to create an entry if none exists, since
SHOULD
the recipient has apparently not initiated any communication with the target.

This document updates the text as follows:

When a valid Neighbor Advertisement is received (either solicited or unsolicited), the
Neighbor Cache is searched for the target's entry. If no entry exists:

•

SHOULD

 silently discard the advertisement. There is no need to create an

Hosts
entry if none exists, since the recipient has apparently not initiated any
communication with the target.

•

SHOULD

 create a new entry for the target address with the link-layer
Routers
address set to the Target Link-Layer Address Option (if supplied). The entry's
reachability state
does not contain the Target Link-Layer Address Option, the advertisement
be silently discarded.

 be set to STALE. If the received Neighbor Advertisement

MUST

SHOULD

6.1.2.  Modiﬁcation to Section 7.2.6 of RFC 4861

This document makes the following changes to

Section 7.2.6 of [RFC4861]

:

The text in RFC 4861 is as follows:

Also, a node belonging to an anycast address
Advertisements for the anycast address when the node's link-layer address changes.

 multicast unsolicited Neighbor

MAY

This document updates the text as follows:

Also, a node belonging to an anycast address
Advertisements for the anycast address when the node's link-layer address changes.

 multicast unsolicited Neighbor

MAY

A node may also wish to notify its ﬁrst-hop routers when it conﬁgures a new global IPv6
address so the routers can proactively populate their Neighbor Caches with the
corresponding entries. In such cases, a node
MAX_NEIGHBOR_ADVERTISEMENT Neighbor Advertisement messages. If the address is
 be set. If the address is in the Optimistic
preferred, then the Override ﬂag
 be set to
state, then the Override ﬂag

 be set. The destination address

SHOULD NOT

 send up to

MUST NOT

SHOULD

SHOULD

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

the all-routers multicast address. These advertisements
RetransTimer seconds. The ﬁrst advertisement
SHOULD
following events happens:

 be separated by at least
MUST
 be sent as soon as one of the

If Optimistic DAD
interface.

[RFC4429]

 is used:

A new Optimistic Address is assigned to the node

If Optimistic DAD is not used:

An address changes the state from tentative to preferred.

7.  Solution Limitations

The solution described in this document provides some improvement for a node conﬁguring a
new IPv6 address and starting to send traﬃc from it. However, that approach does not
completely eliminate the scenario when a router receives some transit traﬃc for an address
without the corresponding Neighbor Cache entry. For example:

•

If the host starts using an already-conﬁgured IPv6 address after a long period of inactivity,
the router might not have the NC entry for that address anymore, as old/expired entries are
deleted.

•

Clearing the router's Neighbor Cache would trigger packet loss for all actively used addresses
removed from the cache.

8.  Solutions Considered but Discarded

There are other possible approaches to address the problem. For example:

•

Just do nothing.

•

Migrate from the "reactive" Neighbor Discovery
.
mechanisms

[RFC8505]

[RFC4861]

 to the registration-based

•

Create new entries in the router's Neighbor Cache by gleaning from Neighbor Discovery DAD
messages.

•

Initiate bidirectional communication from the host to the router using the host GUA.

•

Make the probing logic on hosts more robust.

•

Increase the buﬀer size on routers.

•

Transit data plane traﬃc from an unknown address (an address without the corresponding
Neighbor Cache entry) to trigger an address resolution process on the router.

It should be noted that some of those options are already implemented by some vendors. The
following sections discuss those approaches and the reasons they were discarded.

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

8.1.  Do Nothing

One of the possible approaches might be to declare that everything is working as intended and
let the upper-layer protocols deal with packet loss. The obvious drawbacks include:

•

Unhappy users.

•

Many support tickets.

•

More resistance to deploying IPv6 and IPv6-only networks.

8.2.  Change to the Registration-Based Neighbor Discovery

The most radical approach would be to move away from the reactive ND as deﬁned in
and expand the registration-based ND
Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPANs) to the rest of the IPv6 deployments. This option
requires some investigation and discussion. However, signiﬁcant changes to the existing IPv6
implementations would be needed, so an unclear adoption timeline makes this approach less
preferable than the approach speciﬁed in this document.

 used in IPv6 over Low-Power

[RFC6775] [RFC8505]

[RFC4861]

8.3.  Host Sending NS to the Router Address from Its GUA

The host could force the creation of a STALE entry for its GUA in the router's Neighbor Cache by
sending the following Neighbor Solicitation message:

•

The NS source address is the host GUA.

•

The destination address is the default router IPv6 address.

•

The Source Link-Layer Address Option contains the host link-layer address.

•

The target address is the host's default router address (the default router address the host
received in the RA).

The main disadvantages of this approach are as follows:

•

It would not work for Optimistic Addresses, as
sending Neighbor Solicitations from an Optimistic Address.

Section 2.2 of [RFC4429]

 explicitly prohibits

•

If ﬁrst-hop redundancy is deployed in the network, the NS would reach the active router
only, so all backup routers (or all active routers except one) would not get their Neighbor
Cache updated.

•

Some wireless devices are known to alter ND packets and perform various nonobvious
forms of ND proxy actions. In some cases, unsolicited NAs might not even reach the routers.

8.4.  Host Sending Router Solicitation from Its GUA

The host could send a Router Solicitation message to the all-routers multicast address, using its
GUA as a source. If the host link-layer address is included in the Source Link-Layer Address
Option, the router would create a STALE entry for the host GUA as per
However, this approach cannot be used if the GUA is in the Optimistic state:

Section 6.2.6 of [RFC4861]
Section 2.2 of

.

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

 explicitly prohibits using an Optimistic Address as the source address of a Router

[RFC4429]
Solicitation with a SLLAO, as it might cause disruption for the rightful owner of the address in
the case of a collision. So, for the Optimistic Addresses, the host can send an RS without a SLLAO
included. In that case, the router may respond with either a multicast or unicast RA (only the
latter would create a cache entry).

This approach has the following drawbacks:

•

If the address is in the Optimistic state, the RS cannot contain a SLLAO. As a result, the router
would only create a cache entry if solicited RAs are sent as unicast. Routers sending solicited
RAs as multicast would not create a new cache entry, as they do not need to send a unicast
packet back to the host.

•

There might be a random delay between receiving an RS and sending a unicast RA back (and
creating a cache entry), which might undermine the idea of creating the cache entry
proactively.

•

Some wireless devices are known to intercept ND packets and perform various nonobvious
forms of ND proxy actions. In some cases, the RS might not even reach the routers.

8.5.  Routers Populating Their Caches by Gleaning from Neighbor Discovery
Packets

Routers may be able to learn about new addresses by gleaning from the DAD Neighbor
Solicitation messages. The router could listen to all solicited-node multicast address groups and,
upon receiving a Neighbor Solicitation from the unspeciﬁed address, search its Neighbor Cache
for the solicitation's target address. If no entry exists, the router may create an entry, set its
reachability state to INCOMPLETE, and start the address resolution process for that entry.

The same solution was proposed in
optimization. However, this approach has a number of drawbacks and therefore should not be
used as the only solution:

. Some routing vendors already support such

[ND-ADDR-RES]

•

Routers need to receive all multicast Neighbor Discovery packets; this might negatively
impact a router's CPU.

•

If the router starts the address resolution process as soon as it receives the DAD Neighbor
Solicitation, the host might still be performing DAD and the target address might be
tentative. In that case, the host
SHOULD
from the router as per
Section 5.4.3 of [RFC4862]
complete the address resolution process before the return traﬃc arrives.

 silently ignore the received Neighbor Solicitation

. As a result, the router might not be able to

8.6.  Initiating Host-to-Router Communication

The host may force the router to start address resolution by sending a data packet such as ping or
traceroute to its default router link-local address, using the GUA as a source address. As the RTT
to the default router is lower than the RTT to any oﬀ-link destinations, it's quite likely that the
router would start the Neighbor Discovery process for the host GUA before the ﬁrst packet of the
returning traﬃc arrives.

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

This approach has the following drawbacks:

•

Data packets to the router's link-local address could be blocked by a security policy or control
plane protection mechanism.

•

It introduces an additional overhead for the router's control plane (in addition to processing
ND packets, the data packet needs to be processed as well).

•

Unless the data packet is sent to the all-routers ﬀ02::2 multicast address, if the network
provides a ﬁrst-hop redundancy, then only the active router would create a new cache entry.

8.7.  Making the Probing Logic on Hosts More Robust

Theoretically, the probing logic on hosts might be modiﬁed to better deal with initial packet loss.
For example, only one probe can be sent, or probe retransmit intervals can be reduced. However,
this approach has a number of drawbacks:

•

It would require updating all possible applications that perform probing, while the solution
described in this document is implemented at the operating-system level.

•

Some implementations need to send multiple probes. Examples include but are not limited
to:
◦

Sending AAAA and A record DNS probes in parallel.

◦

Detecting captive portals, which often requires sending multiple packets.

•

While it would increase the probability that the probing will complete successfully, there are
multiple cases when packet loss would still occur:
◦

The probe response consists of multiple packets, so all but the ﬁrst one are dropped.

◦

◦

There are multiple applications on the same host sending traﬃc, and return packets arrive
simultaneously.

There are multiple ﬁrst-hop routers in the network. The ﬁrst probe packet creates the NC
entry on one of them. The subsequent return traﬃc ﬂows might cross other routers and
still experience the issue.

•

Reducing the probe retransmit interval unnecessarily increases network utilization and
might cause network congestion.

8.8.  Increasing the Buﬀer Size on Routers

Increasing the buﬀer size and buﬀering more packets would exacerbate issues described in
[RFC6583]

 and make the router more vulnerable to ND-based denial-of-service attacks.

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

8.9.  Transit Data Plane Traﬃc from a New Address to Trigger Address
Resolution

When a router receives a transit packet sourced by an on-link neighbor node, it might check for
the presence of a Neighbor Cache entry for the packet source address and, if the entry does not
exist, start the address resolution process. This approach does ensure that a Neighbor Cache
entry is proactively created every time a new, previously unseen GUA is used for sending oﬀ-link
traﬃc. However, this approach has a number of limitations. In particular:

•

If traﬃc ﬂows are asymmetrical, the return traﬃc might not transit the same router as the
original traﬃc that triggered the address resolution process. So, the Neighbor Cache entry is
created on the "wrong" router, not the one that actually needs the Neighbor Cache entry for
the host address.

•

The functionality needs to be limited to explicitly conﬁgured networks/interfaces, as the
router needs to distinguish between on-link addresses (addresses for which the router needs
to have Neighbor Cache entries) and the rest of the address space. The proactive address
resolution process must only be triggered by packets from the preﬁxes known to be on-link.
Otherwise, traﬃc from spoofed source addresses or any transit traﬃc could lead to Neighbor
Cache exhaustion.

•

Implementing such functionality is much more complicated than all other solutions, as it
would involve complex interactions between the data plane and the control plane.

9.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

10.  Security Considerations

One of the potential attack vectors to consider is cache spooﬁng, where the attacker might try to
install a cache entry for the victim's IPv6 address and the attacker's link-layer address. However,
it should be noted that this document does not propose any changes for the scenario when the
Neighbor Cache for a given IPv6 address already exists. Therefore, there are no new vectors for
an attacker to override an existing cache entry.

Section 5 describes some corner cases when a host with a duplicate Optimistic Address might get
some packets intended for the rightful owner of the address. However, such scenarios do not
introduce any new attack vectors: even without the changes discussed in this document, an
attacker can easily override the router's Neighbor Cache and redirect the traﬃc by sending NAs
with the Solicited ﬂag set. As discussed in Section 5.3.2, the worst-case scenario might cause a
disruption for up to 7 seconds. Because this scenario is highly unlikely, this risk of disruption is
considered acceptable. More importantly, for all cases described in Section 5, the rightful owner
can prevent disruption caused by an accidental address duplication just by implementing the

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

mechanism described in this document. If the rightful owner sends unsolicited NAs before using
the address, the STALE entry would be created on the router's NC, and any subsequent
unsolicited NAs sent from the host with an Optimistic Address would not override the NC entry.

A malicious host could attempt to exhaust the Neighbor Cache on the router by creating a large
number of STALE entries. However, this attack vector is not new, and the mechanism speciﬁed in
this document does not increase the risk of such an attack: the attacker could do it, for example,
by sending an NS or RS packet with a SLLAO included. All recommendations from
 still
apply.

[RFC6583]

Announcing a new address to the all-routers multicast address may inform an on-link attacker
about IPv6 addresses assigned to the host. However, hiding information about the speciﬁc IPv6
address should not be considered a security measure, as such information is usually disclosed
via DAD to all nodes anyway if MLD snooping is not enabled. Network administrators can also
mitigate this issue by enabling MLD snooping on the link-layer devices to prevent IPv6 link-local
multicast packets from being ﬂooded to all on-link nodes. If peer-to-peer on-link communications
are not desirable for a given network segment, they should be prevented by proper Layer 2
security mechanisms. Therefore, the risk of allowing hosts to send unsolicited Neighbor
Advertisements to the all-routers multicast address is low.

It should be noted that the mechanism discussed in this document allows hosts to proactively
inform their routers about global IPv6 addresses existing on-link. Routers could use that
information to distinguish between used and unused addresses to mitigate Neighbor Cache
exhaustion DoS attacks as described in

Section 4.3.2 of [RFC3756]

.
[RFC6583]

 and in

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4291]

[RFC4429]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4862]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Hinden, R.
10.17487/RFC4291

S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>

,
, February 2006,

 and

,

,
,
Moore, N. "Optimistic Duplicate Address Detection (DAD) for IPv6" RFC 4429
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4429>
.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4429

, April 2006,

,

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

.

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
<https://
, September 2007,

,

,

, and
Thomson, S. Narten, T.
Autoconﬁguration" RFC 4862 DOI 10.17487/RFC4862
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4862>

T. Jinmei "IPv6 Stateless Address
,

,

,

.

, September 2007,

<https://

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

[RFC8174]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

11.2.  Informative References

[ND-ADDR-RES]

Chen, I.

 and

J. Halpern "Triggering ND Address Resolution on Receiving DAD-

,

NS" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-halpern-6man-nd-pre-resolve-
,
addr-00
halpern-6man-nd-pre-resolve-addr-00>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-

, 10 January 2014,

,

.

[RFC3756]

[RFC4541]

[RFC6583]

[RFC6775]

[RFC8305]

[RFC8505]

[RFC8981]

,

, and
Nikander, P., Ed. Kempf, J.
,
Trust Models and Threats" RFC 3756 DOI 10.17487/RFC3756
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3756>

,

,

.

E. Nordmark "IPv6 Neighbor Discovery (ND)

, May 2004,

<https://

,

Christensen, M. Kimball, K.
F. Solensky "Considerations for Internet Group
Management Protocol (IGMP) and Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) Snooping
Switches" RFC 4541 DOI 10.17487/RFC4541
editor.org/info/rfc4541>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2006,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Gashinsky, I. Jaeggli, J.
,
,
Problems" RFC 6583 DOI 10.17487/RFC6583
editor.org/info/rfc6583>

, and

,

.

W. Kumari "Operational Neighbor Discovery
, March 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,
C. Bormann "Neighbor
Shelby, Z., Ed. Chakrabarti, S. Nordmark, E.
Discovery Optimization for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area
Networks (6LoWPANs)" RFC 6775 DOI 10.17487/RFC6775
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6775>

, November 2012,

, and

,

,

,

.

T. Pauly "Happy Eyeballs Version 2: Better Connectivity Using

,
Schinazi, D.
,
Concurrency" RFC 8305 DOI 10.17487/RFC8305
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8305>

 and
,

.

, December 2017,

<https://

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Nordmark, E. Chakrabarti, S.
Extensions for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network
,
(6LoWPAN) Neighbor Discovery" RFC 8505 DOI 10.17487/RFC8505
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8505>

, and

,

.

,

,

C. Perkins "Registration

, November

,

Gont, F. Krishnan, S. Narten, T.
for Stateless Address Autoconﬁguration in IPv6" RFC 8981 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8981

R. Draves "Temporary Address Extensions
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8981>

, February 2021,

, and

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

Thanks to the following people (in alphabetical order) for their comments, review, and feedback:
Mikael Abrahamsson Stewart Bryant Lorenzo Colitti Roman Danyliw Owen DeLong Martin
Duke Igor Gashinsky Carles Gomez Fernando Gont Tatuya Jinmei Benjamin Kaduk Scott Kelly

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9131

Gratuitous ND

October 2021

,

Erik Kline Warren Kumari Barry Leiba Jordi Palet Martinez Erik Nordmark Michael
Richardson Dan Romascanu Zaheduzzaman Sarker Michael Scharf John Scudder Mark Smith
Dave Thaler Pascal Thubert Loganaden Velvindron

,
Éric Vyncke
.

,
, and

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Author's Address

Jen Linkova
Google
1 Darling Island Rd
Pyrmont NSW 2009
Australia
Email:

 furry@google.com

Linkova

Standards Track

Page 20

