Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9784
Standards Track
June 2025
2070-1721
A. Sajassi
Cisco Systems

P. Brissette
Cisco Systems

R. Schell
Independent

J. Drake
Independent

J. Rabadan
Nokia

RFC 9784
Virtual Ethernet Segments for EVPN and Provider
Backbone Bridge EVPN

Abstract

Ethernet VPN (EVPN) and Provider Backbone Bridge EVPN (PBB-EVPN) introduce a
comprehensive suite of solutions for delivering Ethernet services over MPLS/IP networks. These
solutions offer advanced multihoming capabilities. Specifically, they support Single-Active and
All-Active redundancy modes for an Ethernet Segment (ES), which is defined as a collection of
physical links connecting a multihomed device or network to a set of Provider Edge (PE) devices.
This document extends the concept of an ES by allowing an ES to be associated with a set of
Ethernet Virtual Circuits (EVCs), such as VLANs, or other entities, including MPLS Label Switched
Paths (LSPs) or pseudowires (PWs). This extended concept is referred to as virtual Ethernet
Segments (vESes). This document lists the requirements and specifies the necessary extensions
to support vES in both EVPN and PBB-EVPN.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9784
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  vESes in Access Ethernet Networks

1.3.  vESes in Access MPLS Networks

2.  Terminology

3.  Requirements

3.1.  Single-Homed and Multihomed vES

3.2.  Local Switching

3.3.  EVC Service Types

3.4.  Designated Forwarder (DF) Election

3.5.  EVC Monitoring

3.6.  Failure and Recovery

3.7.  Fast Convergence

4.  Solution Overview

4.1.  EVPN DF Election for vES

4.2.  Grouping and Route Coloring for vES

4.2.1.  EVPN Route Coloring for vES

4.2.2.  PBB-EVPN Route Coloring for vES

5.  Failure Handling and Recovery

5.1.  EVC Failure Handling for Single-Active vES in EVPN

5.2.  EVC Failure Handling for a Single-Active vES in PBB-EVPN

5.3.  Port Failure Handling for Single-Active vESes in EVPN

5.4.  Port Failure Handling for Single-Active vESes in PBB-EVPN

5.5.  Fast Convergence in EVPN and PBB-EVPN

3

3

3

4

6

7

7

7

8

8

9

9

9

10

10

11

12

12

12

13

14

14

15

16

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

18

18

18

18

19

20

20

[RFC7432]

 and Provider Backbone Bridge EVPN (PBB-EVPN)

[RFC7623]
Ethernet VPN (EVPN)
introduce a comprehensive suite of solutions for delivering Ethernet services over MPLS/IP
networks. These solutions offer advanced multihoming capabilities. Specifically, they support
Single-Active and All-Active redundancy modes for an Ethernet Segment (ES). As defined in
[RFC7432]
more Provider Edge (PE) devices.

, an ES represents a collection of Ethernet links that connect a customer site to one or

This document extends the concept of an ES by allowing an ES to be associated with a set of
Ethernet Virtual Circuits (EVCs) (such as VLANs) or other entities, including MPLS Label
Switched Paths (LSPs) or pseudowires (PWs). This extended concept is referred to as virtual
Ethernet Segments (vESes). This document lists the requirements and specifies the necessary
extensions to support vES in both EVPN and PBB-EVPN. The scope of this document includes PBB-
[RFC7623]
EVPN
EVPN over SRv6

, EVPN over MPLS
[RFC9252]
.

; however, it excludes

, and EVPN over IP

[RFC8365]

[RFC7432]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  vESes in Access Ethernet Networks

Some service providers (SPs) seek to extend the concept of physical Ethernet links in an ES to
encompass EVCs, wherein multiple EVCs (such as VLANs) can be aggregated onto a single
physical External Network-Network Interface (ENNI). An ES composed of a set of EVCs rather
than physical links is referred to as a vES. Figure 1 illustrates two PE devices (PE1 and PE2), each
with an ENNI aggregating several EVCs. Some of these EVCs on a given ENNI can be associated
with vESes. For instance, the multihomed vES depicted in Figure 1 consists of EVC4 on ENNI1
and EVC5 on ENNI2.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

                  Third-Party
    +-----+       EAP
    | CE11|EVC1  +---------+
    +-----+   \  |         |       +---+
    Cust. A    \-0=========0--ENNI1|   |
    +-----+      |         |  ENNI1|   |   +-------+   +---+
    | CE12|EVC2--0=========0--ENNI1|PE1|---|       |   |   |
    +-----+      |         |  ENNI1|   |   |SP     |---|PE3|-
                 |       ==0--ENNI1|   |   |IP/MPLS|   |   | \  +---+
    +-----+      |      /  |       +---+   |Core   |   +---+  \-|   |
    | CE22|EVC3--0==== /   |               |Network|            |CE4|
    +-----+      |    X    |               |       |   +---+    |   |
    Cust. B      |   / \   |       +---+   |       |   |   |  /-|   |
    +-----+     -0===   ===0--ENNI2|   |   |       |---|PE4|-/  +---+
    | CE3 |EVC4/ |         |  ENNI2|PE2|---|       |   |   |
    |     |EVC5--0=========0--ENNI2|   |   +-------+   +---+
    +-----+      |         |       +---+
    Cust. C      +---------+   /\
           /\                  ||
           ||                  ENNI
           EVCs             Interface
    <--------802.1Q---------->  <---- EVPN Network -----> <-802.1Q->

Figure 1: Single-Homed Devices and a Dual-Homed Device/Network on the Same ENNI

ENNIs are commonly used to reach remote customer sites via independent Ethernet access
networks or third-party Ethernet Access Providers (EAPs). ENNIs can aggregate traffic from
many vESes (e.g., hundreds to thousands), where each vES is represented by its associated EVC
on that ENNI. As a result, ENNIs and their associated EVCs are key elements of SP external
boundaries that are carefully designed and closely monitored. As a reminder, the ENNI is the
demarcation between the SP (IP/MPLS core network) and the third-party Ethernet Access
Provider.

To meet customers' Service Level Agreements (SLAs), SPs build redundancy via multiple EVPN
PEs and across multiple ENNIs (as shown in Figure 1), where a given vES can be multihomed to
two or more EVPN PE devices (on two or more ENNIs) via their associated EVCs. Just like
[RFC7432]
physical ESs in the solutions described in
, these vESes can be single-
homed or multihomed ESs, and when multihomed, they can operate in either Single-Active or
All-Active redundancy modes. In a typical SP external-boundary scenario (e.g., with an EAP), an
ENNI can be associated with several thousands of single-homed vESes, several hundreds of
Single-Active vESes, and tens or hundreds of All-Active vESes. The specific figures used
throughout this document reflect the relative quantities (hundreds, thousands, etc.) of various
elements as understood at the time of writing.

[RFC7623]

 and

1.3.  vESes in Access MPLS Networks

Other SPs want to extend the concept of physical links in an ES to individual PWs or to MPLS
LSPs in Access MPLS networks, i.e., a vES consisting of a set of PWs or a set of LSPs. Figure 2
illustrates this concept.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

                 MPLS Aggregation
                 Network
   +-----+      +-----------------+
   | CE11|EVC1  |                 |
   +-----+   \ +AG1-+  PW1      +-+---+
   Cust. A    -0----|===========|     |
   +-----+     | ---+===========|     |   +-------+   +---+
   | CE12|EVC2-0/   |  PW2   /\ | PE1 +---+       |   |   |
   +-----+     ++---+      /=||=|     |   |       +---+PE3+-
                |         //=||=|     |   |IP/MPLS|   |   | \  +---+
                |        //  \/ +-+---+   |Core   |   +---+  \-+   |
   +-----+EVC3  |    PW3//  LSP1  |       |Network|            |CE4|
   | CE13|    \+AG2-+==//         |       |       |   +---+    |   |
   +-----+     0    |==/PW4  /\ +-+---+   |       |   |   |  /-+   |
               0    |==PW5===||=|     |   |       +---+PE4+-/  +---+
   +-----+    /++---+==PW6===||=| PE2 +---+       |   |   |
   | CE14|EVC4  |            \/ |     |   +-------+   +---+
   +-----+      |           LSP2+-+---+
   Cust. C      +-----------------+
          /\
          ||
          EVCs
   <--802.1Q--> <-----MPLS Agg----> <--- EVPN Network ---> <-802.1Q->

Figure 2: A Dual-Homed and Single-Homed Network on MPLS Aggregation Networks

In certain scenarios, SPs utilize MPLS Aggregation Networks that are managed by separate
administrative entities or third-party organizations to gain access to their own IP/MPLS core
network infrastructure. This situation is depicted in Figure 2.

In such scenarios, a vES is defined as a set of individual PWs when aggregation is not feasible. If
aggregation is possible, the vES can be associated with a group of PWs that share the same
unidirectional LSP pair, where the LSP pair consists of the ingress and egress LSPs between the
same endpoints.

In Figure 2, EVC3 is connected to a VPWS instance in AG2 that is connected to PE1 and PE2 via
PW3 and PW5, respectively. EVC4 is connected to another VPWS instance on AG2 that is
connected to PE1 and PE2 via PW4 and PW6, respectively. Since the PWs for the two VPWS
instances can be aggregated into the same LSP pair going to and coming from the MPLS
network, a common vES can be defined for the four mentioned PWs. In Figure 2, LSP1 and LSP2
represent the two LSP pairs between PE1 and AG2 and between PE2 and AG2, respectively. The
vES consists of these two LSP pairs (LSP1 and LSP2), and each LSP pair has two PWs. This vES
will be shared by two separate EVPN instances (e.g., EVI-1 and EVI-2) in the EVPN network. PW3
and PW4 are associated with EVI-1 and EVI-2, respectively, on PE1, and PW5 and PW6 are
associated with EVI-1 and EVI-2, respectively, on PE2.

In some cases, the aggregation of PWs that share the same LSP pair may not be possible. For
instance, if PW3 were terminated into a third PE, e.g., PE3, instead of PE1, the vES would need to
be defined on each PW on each PE.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

For MPLS/IP access networks where a vES represents a set of LSP pairs or a set of PWs, this
document extends the Single-Active multihoming procedures defined in
[RFC7623]
IP access networks is beyond the scope of this document.

 to accommodate vES. The extension of vES to support All-Active multihoming in MPLS/

[RFC7432]

 and

[RFC7432]

This document defines the concept of a vES and specifies the additional extensions necessary to
support a vES in accordance with
 and
requirements for a vES. Section 4 details the extensions for a vES applicable to EVPN solutions,
[RFC7209]
including those specified in
requirements listed in Section 3. Section 4 also provides an overview of the solution, while
Section 5 addresses failure handling, recovery, scalability, and fast convergence of
[RFC7623]

. These extensions are designed to meet the

. Section 3 enumerates the set of

 for vESes.

[RFC7623]

[RFC7432]

[RFC7432]

 and

 and

2.  Terminology

AC:

Attachment Circuit

B-MAC:

Backbone MAC Address

CE:

Customer Edge

C-MAC:

Customer/Client MAC Address

DF:

Designated Forwarder

ENNI:

External Network-Network Interface

ES:

ESI:

Ethernet Segment

Ethernet Segment Identifier

Ethernet A-D:

Ethernet Auto-Discovery

EVC:

EVI:

Ethernet Virtual Circuit

[MEF63]

EVPN Instance

EVPN:

Ethernet VPN

I-SID:

Service Instance Identifier (24 bits and global within a PBB network; see

[RFC7080]

).

MAC:

Media Access Control

PBB:

Provider Backbone Bridge

PBB-EVPN:

Provider Backbone Bridge EVPN

PE:

Provider Edge

VPWS:

Virtual Private Wire Service

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

Single-Active (SA) Redundancy Mode:

When only a single PE, among a group of PEs attached to

an ES, is allowed to forward traffic to/from that ES, the ES is defined as operating in
Single-Active redundancy mode.

All-Active (AA) Redundancy Mode:

When all PEs attached to an ES are allowed to forward

traffic to/from that ES, the ES is defined as operating in All-Active redundancy mode.

3.  Requirements

This section describes the requirements specific to vES for EVPN and PBB-EVPN solutions. These
requirements are in addition to the ones described in

[RFC8214] [RFC7432]
,

[RFC7623]
.

, and

3.1.  Single-Homed and Multihomed vES

A PE device

MUST

 support the following types of vESes:

(R1a)

(R1b)

(R1c)

(R1d)

(R1e)

The PE

MUST

 handle single-homed vESes on a single physical port, such as a single ENNI.

MUST

 support a combination of single-homed vESes and Single-Active

The PE
multihomed vESes simultaneously on a single physical port, such as a single ENNI.
Throughout this document, Single-Active multihomed vESes will be referred to as "Single-
Active vESes".

MAY

The PE
this document, All-Active multihomed vESes will be referred to as "All-Active vESes".

 support All-Active multihomed vESes on a single physical port. Throughout

MAY

The PE
a single physical port.

 support a combination of All-Active vESes along with other types of vESes on

A multihomed vES, whether Single-Active or All-Active, can span across two or more
ENNIs on any two or more PEs.

3.2.  Local Switching

Many vESes of different types can be aggregated on a single physical port on a PE device and
some of these vESes can belong to the same service instance (e.g., EVI). This translates into the
need for supporting local switching among the vESes for the same service instance on the same
physical port (e.g., ENNI) of the PE.

(R2a)

A PE device that supports the vES function
 support local switching among different
MUST
vESes associated with the same service instance on a single physical port. For instance, in
Figure 1, PE1 must support local switching between CE11 and CE12, which are mapped to
two single-homed vESes on ENNI1. In the case of Single-Active vESes, the local switching
is performed among active EVCs associated with the same service instance on the same
ENNI.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

3.3.  EVC Service Types

A physical port, such as an ENNI of a PE device, can aggregate numerous EVCs, each associated
with a vES. An EVC may carry one or more VLANs. Typically, an EVC carries a single VLAN and is
therefore associated with a single broadcast domain. However, there are no restrictions
preventing an EVC from carrying multiple VLANs.

(R3a)

(R3b)

An EVC can be associated with a single broadcast domain, such as in a VLAN-based
service or a VLAN bundle service.

MAY

An EVC
bundle service.

 be associated with several broadcast domains, such as in a VLAN-aware

Similarly, a PE can aggregate multiple LSPs and PWs. In the case of individual PWs per vES, a PW
is typically associated with a single broadcast domain, although there are no restrictions
preventing a PW from carrying multiple VLANs if the PW is configured in Raw mode.

(R3c)

(R3d)

A PW can be associated with a single broadcast domain, such as in a VLAN-based service
or a VLAN bundle service.

A PW
MAY
bundle service.

 be associated with several broadcast domains, such as in a VLAN-aware

3.4.  Designated Forwarder (DF) Election

 and

[RFC7623]

[RFC8214] [RFC8584]
.

 elaborates on additional procedures for DF

 specifies the default procedure for DF election in EVPN, which is also

Section 8.5 of [RFC7432]
applied in
election in EVPN. These DF election procedures are performed at the granularity of (ESI,
Ethernet Tag). In the context of a vES, the same EVPN default procedure for DF election is
applicable but at the granularity of (vESI, Ethernet Tag). In this context, the Ethernet Tag is
represented by an I-SID in PBB-EVPN and by a VLAN ID (VID) in EVPN. As described in
this default procedure for DF election at the granularity of (vESI, Ethernet Tag) is also known as
"service carving." The goal of service carving is to evenly distribute the DFs for different vESes
among various PEs, thereby ensuring an even distribution of traffic across the PEs. The following
requirements are applicable to the DF election of vESes for EVPN and PBB-EVPN.

[RFC7432]
,

(R4a)

(R4b)

MUST

A PE that supports vES function
belonging to p PEs in any arbitrary order, where n >= p >= m >=2. For example, if there is
a vES with 2 EVCs and there are 5 ENNIs on 5 PEs (PE1 through PE5), then vES can be
dual-homed to PE2 and PE4, and the DF election must be performed between PE2 and
PE4.

 support a vES with m EVCs among n ENNIs

Each vES

MUST

 be identified by its own virtual ESI (vESI).

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

3.5.  EVC Monitoring

To detect the failure of an individual EVC and subsequently perform DF election for its
associated vES as a result of this failure, each EVC should be monitored independently.

(R5a)

(R5b)

Each EVC

SHOULD

 be independently monitored for its operational health.

A failure in a single EVC, among many aggregated on a single physical port or ENNI,
trigger a DF election for its associated vES.

MUST

3.6.  Failure and Recovery

(R6a)

(R6b)

(R6c)

(R6d)

Failure and failure recovery of an EVC for a single-homed vES
other EVCs within its service instance or any other service instances. In other words, for
 trigger any MAC flushing within both its own I-SID and other I-
PBB-EVPN, it
SIDs.

 impact any

SHALL NOT

SHALL NOT

In case of All-Active vES, failure and failure recovery of an EVC for that vES
impact any other EVCs within its service instance or any other service instances. In other
words, for PBB-EVPN, it
and other I-SIDs.

 trigger any MAC flushing within both its own I-SID

SHALL NOT

SHALL NOT

Failure and failure recovery of an EVC for a Single-Active vES
service instance. In other words, for PBB-EVPN, MAC flushing
 impact any other I-SIDs.
associated I-SID only and
SHALL NOT

SHALL

SHALL

 impact only its own
 be limited to the

Failure and failure recovery of an EVC for a Single-Active vES
 only impact C-MACs
associated with a multihomed device/network for that service instance. In other words,
MAC flushing
and only C-MACs for a Single-Active multihomed device/network.

 be limited to a single service instance (I-SID in the case of PBB-EVPN)

MUST

MUST

3.7.  Fast Convergence

Since many EVCs (and their associated vESes) are aggregated via a single physical port (e.g.,
ENNI), when there is a failure of that physical port, it impacts many vESes and equally triggers
many ES route withdrawals. Formulating, sending, receiving, and processing such large
numbers of BGP messages can introduce delay in DF election and convergence time. As such, it
is highly desirable to have a mass-withdraw mechanism similar to the one in
withdrawing many Ethernet A-D per ES routes.

[RFC7432]

 for

(R7a)

SHOULD

 be a mechanism equivalent to EVPN mass withdraw such that upon an

There
ENNI failure, only a single BGP message to the PEs is needed to trigger DF election for all
impacted vESes associated with that ENNI.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

4.  Solution Overview

The solutions described in
that the ESI assignment is performed for an EVC or a group of EVCs or LSPs/PWs instead of a link
or a group of physical links. In other words, the ESI is associated with a vES (hereby referred to
as the "vESI").

 are leveraged as is, with the modification

[RFC7623]

[RFC7432]

 and

In the EVPN solution, the overall procedures remain consistent, with the primary difference
being the handling of physical port failures that can affect multiple vESes. Sections 5.1 and 5.3
describe the procedures for managing physical port or link failures in the context of EVPN. In a
typical multihomed setup, MAC addresses learned behind a vES are advertised using the ESI
associated with the vES (i.e., the vESI). EVPN aliasing and mass-withdraw operations are
conducted with respect to the vES identifier. Specifically, the Ethernet A-D routes for these
operations are advertised using the vESI instead of the ESI.

For the PBB-EVPN solution, the main change is with respect to the B-MAC address assignment,
which is performed in a similar way to what is described in
following refinements:

Section 6.2.1.1 of [RFC7623]

, with the

•

One shared B-MAC address
words, a single B-MAC is shared for all single-homed vESes on that PE.

 be used per PE for the single-homed vESes. In other

SHOULD

•

One shared B-MAC address
Single-Active vESes. In other words, a single B-MAC is shared for all Single-Active vESes that
share the same ENNI.

 be used per PE, per physical port (e.g., ENNI) for the

SHOULD

•

One shared B-MAC address

MAY

 be used for all Single-Active vESes on that PE.

•

One B-MAC address
words, a single B-MAC address is used per vES for All-Active scenarios.

 be used per set of EVCs representing an All-Active vES. In other

SHOULD

•

A single B-MAC address

MAY

 also be used per vES, per PE for Single-Active scenarios.

4.1.  EVPN DF Election for vES

The service carving procedures for vESes are almost the same as the procedures outlined in
Section 8.5 of [RFC7432]

, except that ES is replaced with vES.

[RFC8584]

 and in

For the sake of clarity and completeness, the default DF election procedure of
repeated below with the necessary changes:

[RFC7432]

 is

1.

When a PE discovers the vESI or is configured with the vESI associated with its attached vES,
it advertises an ES route with the associated ES-Import Route Target extended community
attribute.

2.

The PE then starts a timer (default value = 3 seconds) to allow the reception of ES routes
from other PE nodes connected to the same vES. This timer value
all PEs connected to the same vES.

 be the same across

MUST

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

3.

When the timer expires, each PE builds an ordered list of the IP addresses of all the PE
nodes connected to the vES (including itself), in increasing numeric value. Each IP address
in this list is extracted from the "Originator Router's IP address" field of the advertised ES
route. Every PE is then given an ordinal indicating its position in the ordered list, starting
with 0 as the ordinal for the PE with the numerically lowest IP address. The ordinals are
used to determine which PE node will be the DF for a given EVPN instance on the vES using
the following rule: Assuming a redundancy group of N PE nodes, the PE with ordinal i is the
DF for an EVPN instance with an associated Ethernet Tag value of V when (V mod N) = i. It
should be noted that using the "Originator Router's IP address" field in the ES route to get
the PE IP address needed for the ordered list allows a CE to be multihomed across different
ASes, if such need ever arises.

4.

The PE that is elected as a DF for a given EVPN instance will unblock traffic for that EVPN
instance. Note that the DF PE unblocks all traffic in both ingress and egress directions for
Single-Active vESes and unblocks multi-destination in the egress direction for All-Active
multihomed vESes. All non-DF PEs block all traffic in both ingress and egress directions for
Single-Active vESes and block multi-destination traffic in the egress direction for All-Active
vESes.

In case of an EVC failure, the affected PE withdraws its corresponding ES route if there are no
more EVCs associated to the vES in the PE. This will re-trigger the DF election procedure on all
the PEs in the redundancy group. For PE node failure, or upon PE commissioning or
decommissioning, the PEs re-trigger the DF election procedure across all affected vESes. In case
of a Single-Active scenario, when a service moves from one PE in the redundancy group to
another PE because of DF re-election, the PE (which ends up being the elected DF for the service)
 trigger a MAC address flush notification towards the associated vES if the multihoming
MUST
device is a bridge or the multihoming network is an Ethernet bridged network.

For LSP-based and PW-based vES, the non-DF PE
Aggregation PE (e.g., AG1 and AG2 in Figure 2), and a new DF PE
 send a Label Distribution
Protocol (LDP) MAC withdraw message as a MAC address flush notification. It should be noted
that the PW-status is signaled for the scenarios where there is a one-to-one mapping between
EVI (EVPN instance) and the PW.

 signal PW-status 'standby' to the

SHOULD

MAY

4.2.  Grouping and Route Coloring for vES

Physical ports (e.g., ENNI) that aggregate many EVCs are 'colored' to enable the grouping
schemes described below.

By default, the MAC address of the corresponding port (e.g., ENNI) is used to represent the 'color'
of the port, and the EVPN Router's MAC Extended Community defined in
signal this color.

[RFC9135]

 is used to

The difference between coloring mechanisms for EVPN and PBB-EVPN is that the extended
community is advertised with the Ethernet A-D per ES route for EVPN, whereas the extended
community is advertised with the B-MAC route for PBB-EVPN.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

The subsequent sections detailing Grouping of Ethernet A-D per ES routes and Grouping of B-
MAC addresses will be essential for addressing port failure handling, as discussed in Sections 5.3,
5.4, and 5.5.

4.2.1.  EVPN Route Coloring for vES

When a PE discovers the vESI or is configured with the vESI associated with its attached vES, an
ES route and Ethernet A-D per ES route are generated using the vESI identifier.

These ES and Ethernet A-D per ES routes specific to each vES are colored with an attribute
representing their association to a physical port (e.g., ENNI).

The corresponding port 'color' is encoded in the EVPN Router's MAC Extended Community
defined in
vES. The color (which is the MAC address of the port)

 and advertised along with the ES and Ethernet A-D per ES routes for this

 be unique.

[RFC9135]

MUST

The PE also constructs a special Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route that represents all the vESes
associated with the port (e.g., ENNI). The corresponding port 'color' is encoded in the ESI field.
Section 5 of [RFC7432]
For this encoding, Type 3 ESI (
(MAC address) of the port and the 3-octet local discriminator field set to 0xFFFFFF.

) is used with the MAC field set to the color

The ESI label extended community (
Ethernet A-D per ES route. The label value is not used for encapsulating Broadcast, Unknown
Unicast, and Multicast (BUM) packets for any split-horizon function. The ESI label extended
community
receiving the PE.

 be added to Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route and

) is not relevant to Grouping

Section 7.5 of [RFC7432]

MUST NOT

MUST

 be ignored on

The Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route is advertised with a list of Route Targets corresponding
to the affected service instances. If the number of associated Route Targets exceeds the capacity
of a single route, multiple Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES routes are advertised accordingly as
specified in

Section 8.2 of [RFC7432]
.

4.2.2.  PBB-EVPN Route Coloring for vES

In PBB-EVPN, particularly when there are large numbers of service instances (i.e., I-SIDs)
associated with each EVC, the PE device
indicating their association with a physical port (e.g., an ENNI).

 assign a color attribute to each vES B-MAC route,

MAY

The corresponding port 'color' is encoded in the EVPN Router's MAC Extended Community
defined in

 and advertised along with the B-MAC for this vES in PBB-EVPN.

[RFC9135]

MAY

 also construct a special Grouping B-MAC route that represents all the vESes

The PE
associated with the port (e.g., ENNI). The corresponding port 'color' is encoded directly into this
special Grouping B-MAC route.

5.  Failure Handling and Recovery

There are several failure scenarios to consider such as:

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

A:

CE uplink port failure

B:

Ethernet Access Network failure

C:

PE access-facing port or link failure

D:

PE node failure

E:

PE isolation from IP/MPLS network

[RFC7432] [RFC7623]
,

The solutions specified in
failures as described in these respective references. In the context of these solutions, the
presence of vESes introduces an additional failure scenario beyond those already considered,
specifically the failure of individual EVCs. Addressing vES failure scenarios necessitates the
independent monitoring of EVCs or PWs. Upon detection of failure or service restoration,
appropriate DF election and failure recovery mechanisms must be executed.

 provide protection against

[RFC8214]

, and

 is used for monitoring EVCs, and upon failure detection of a given EVC, the DF

[RFC7023]
election procedure per Section 4.1 is executed. For PBB-EVPN, some extensions are needed to
handle the failure and recovery procedures of
extensions are described in the next section.

 to meet the above requirements. These

[RFC7623]

[RFC4377]
vES.

 and

[RFC6310]

 are used for monitoring the status of LSPs and/or PWs associated to

                      B            D
                      ||           ||
                      \/           \/
                    +-----+
       +-----+      |     |       +---+
       | CE1 |EVC2--0=====0--ENNI1|   |   +-------+
       +-----+      |    =0--ENNI1|PE1|---|       |  +---+  +---+
       Cust. A      |   / |       |   |   |IP/MPLS|--|PE3|--|CE4|
       +-----+      |  /  |       +---+   |Network|  |   |  +---+
       |     |EVC2--0==   |               |       |  +---+
       | CE2 |      |     |       +---+   |       |
       |     |EVC3--0=====0--ENNI2|PE2|---|       |
       +-----+      |     |       |   |   +-------+
                    +-----+       +---+
              /\                /\     /\
              ||                ||     ||
              A                 C      E

Figure 3: Failure Scenarios A, B, C, D, and E

5.1.  EVC Failure Handling for Single-Active vES in EVPN

[RFC7432]

, when a DF PE connected to a Single-Active multihomed ES loses connectivity to the

In
segment, due to link or port failure, it signals the remote PEs to invalidate all MAC addresses
associated with that ES. This is done by means of a mass-withdraw message, by withdrawing the

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

Ethernet A-D per ES route. It should be noted that for dual-homing use cases where there is only
a single backup path, MAC invalidating can be avoided by the remote PEs as they can update
their next hop associated with the affected MAC entries to the backup path per the procedure
described in

Section 8.2 of [RFC7432]
.

In case of an EVC failure that impacts a single vES, this same EVPN procedure is used. In this
case, the mass withdraw is conveyed by withdrawing the Ethernet A-D per vES route carrying
the vESI representing the failed EVC. Upon receiving this message, the remote PEs perform the
same procedures outlined in

Section 8.2 of [RFC7432]
.

5.2.  EVC Failure Handling for a Single-Active vES in PBB-EVPN

[RFC7432]

, when a PE connected to a Single-Active ES loses connectivity to the segment, due to
In
link or port failure, it signals the remote PE to flush all C-MAC addresses associated with that ES.
This is done by updating the advertised B-MAC route's MAC Mobility extended community.

In case of an EVC failure that impacts a single vES, if the above PBB-EVPN procedure is used, it
results in excessive C-MAC flushing because a single physical port can support a large number of
EVCs (and their associated vESes); therefore, updating the advertised B-MAC corresponding to
the physical port, with MAC Mobility extended community, will result in flushing C-MAC
addresses not just for the impacted EVC but for all other EVCs on that port.

 introduces a B-MAC/I-SID route where the

To reduce the scope of C-MAC flushing to only the impacted service instances (the service
instance(s) impacted by the EVC failure), the PBB-EVPN C-MAC flushing needs to be adapted on a
[RFC9541]
per-service-instance basis (i.e., per I-SID).
existing PBB-EVPN B-MAC route is modified to carry an I-SID, instead of a NULL value, in the
"Ethernet Tag ID" field. To the receiving PE, this field indicates flushing all C-MAC addresses
 be
associated with that I-SID for that B-MAC. This C-MAC flushing mechanism per I-SID
SHOULD
used in case of an EVC failure impacting a vES. Since an EVC typically maps to a single broadcast
domain and thus a single service instance, the affected PE only needs to advertise a single B-MAC/
I-SID route. However, if the failed EVC carries multiple VLANs each with its own broadcast
domain, then the affected PE needs to advertise multiple B-MAC/I-SID routes, i.e., one route for
each VLAN (broadcast domain), meaning one route for each I-SID. Each B‑MAC/I-SID route
basically instructs the remote PEs to perform flushing for C-MACs corresponding to the
advertised B-MAC only for the advertised I-SID.

The C-MAC flushing based on a B-MAC/I-SID route works fine when there are only a few VLANs
(e.g., I-SIDs) per EVC. However, if the number of I-SIDs associated with a failed EVC is large, then
it is
withdraws this B-MAC message to other PEs.

 to assign a B-MAC per vES, and upon EVC failure, the affected PE simply

RECOMMENDED

5.3.  Port Failure Handling for Single-Active vESes in EVPN

When many EVCs are aggregated via a single physical port on a PE, where each EVC corresponds
to a vES, then the port failure impacts all the associated EVCs and their corresponding vESes. If
the number of EVCs corresponding to the Single-Active vESes for that physical port is in the

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

thousands, then thousands of service instances are impacted. Therefore, the propagation of
failure in BGP needs to address all these impacted service instances. In order to achieve this, the
following extensions are added to the baseline EVPN mechanism:

1.

MAY

The PE
4.2.1. The PE
this color and create a list of vESes for this color.

 color each Ethernet A-D per ES route for a given vES, as described in Section
 use the MAC physical port by default. The receiving PEs take note of

SHOULD

2.

MAY

The PE
represents all the vESes associated with the port.

 advertise a special Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route for that color, which

3.

Upon a port failure (e.g., an ENNI failure), the PE
MAY
withdrawing the Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route.

 send a mass-withdraw message by

4.

When this message is received, the remote PE
message by identifying the Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route. The remote PEs
access the list of vESes created per item 1 for the specified color and locally initiate MAC
address invalidating procedures for each of the vESes in the list.

 detect the special vES mass-withdraw

MAY

MAY

 then

In scenarios where a logical ENNI is used, the above procedure equally applies. The logical ENNI
is represented by a Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route where the Type 3 ESI and the 6 bytes
used in the ENNI's ESI MAC address field are used as a color for the vESes as described above
and in Section 4.2.1.

5.4.  Port Failure Handling for Single-Active vESes in PBB-EVPN

When many EVCs are aggregated via a single physical port on a PE, where each EVC corresponds
to a vES, then the port failure impacts all the associated EVCs and their corresponding vESes. If
the number of EVCs corresponding to the Single-Active vESes for that physical port is in the
thousands, then thousands of service instances (I-SIDs) are impacted. In such failure scenarios,
the following two MAC flushing mechanisms per

 can be performed.

[RFC7623]

1.

If the MAC address of the physical port is used for PBB encapsulation as B-MAC SA, then
upon the port failure, the PE
the flush.

 use the EVPN MAC route withdrawal message to signal

MUST

2.

If the PE's shared MAC address is used for PBB encapsulation as B-MAC SA, then upon the
port failure, the PE
community to signal the flush.

 re-advertise this MAC route with the MAC Mobility extended

MUST

The first method is recommended because it reduces the scope of flushing the most.

As noted above, the advertisement of the extended community along with the B-MAC route for
coloring purposes is optional and only recommended when there are many vESes per physical
port and each vES is associated with a very large number of service instances (i.e., a large
number of I-SIDs).

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

If there are large numbers of service instances (i.e., I-SIDs) associated with each EVC, and if there
is a B-MAC assigned per vES as recommended in the above section, then in order to handle port
failure efficiently, the following extensions are added to the baseline PBB-EVPN mechanism:

1.

MAY

 be colored with a MAC address representing the physical port like the

Each vES
coloring mechanism for EVPN. In other words, each B-MAC representing a vES is advertised
with the 'color' of the physical port per Section 4.2.2. The receiving PEs take note of this color
being advertised along with the B-MAC route, and for each such color, they create a list of
vESes associated with this color.

2.

MAY

The PE
MAC address by default), which represents all the vESes associated with the port.

 advertise a special Grouping B-MAC route for that color (consisting of a port

3.

Upon a port failure (e.g., ENNI failure), the PE
withdrawing the Grouping B-MAC route.

MAY

 send a mass-withdraw message by

4.

When this message is received, the remote PE
message by identifying the Grouping B-MAC route. The remote PEs
created in (1) above for the specified color and flush all C-MACs associated with the failed
physical port.

 detect the special vES mass-withdraw
MAY

 then access the list

MAY

5.5.  Fast Convergence in EVPN and PBB-EVPN

As described above, when many EVCs are aggregated via a physical port on a PE, and where
each EVC corresponds to a vES, the port failure impacts all the associated EVCs and their
corresponding vESes. Two actions must be taken as the result of such a port failure:

•

For EVPN, initiate the mass-withdraw procedure for all vESes associated with the failed port
to invalidate MACs and for PBB-EVPN to flush all C-MACs associated with the failed port
across all vESes and the impacted I-SIDs

•

Use DF election for all impacted vESes associated with the failed port

Section 5.3 already describes how to perform a mass withdraw for all affected vESes and
invalidate MACs using a single BGP withdrawal of the Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route.
Section 5.4 describes how to only flush C-MAC addresses associated with the failed physical port
(e.g., optimum C-MAC flushing) as well as, optionally, the withdrawal of a Grouping B-MAC route.

This section describes how to perform DF election in the most optimal way, e.g., by triggering DF
election for all impacted vESes (which can be very large) among the participating PEs via a single
BGP message as opposed to sending a large number of BGP messages (one per vES). This section
assumes that the MAC flushing mechanism described in Section 5.4 and route coloring are used.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

                  +-----+
       +----+     |     |       +---+
       | CE1|AC1--0=====0--ENNI1|   |  +-------+
       |    |AC2--0     |       |PE1|--|       |
       +----+     |\  ==0--ENNI2|   |  |       |
                  | \/  |       +---+  |       |
                  | /\  |              |IP/MPLS|
       +----+     |/  \ |       +---+  |Network|   +---+  +---+
       | CE2|AC4--0    =0--ENNI3|   |  |       |---|PE4|--|CE4|
       |    |AC4--0=====0--ENNI3|PE2|--|       |   +---+  +---+
       +----+     | ====0--ENNI3|   |  |       |
                  |/    |       +---+  |       |
                  0     |              |       |
       +----+    /|     |       +---+  |       |
       | CE3|AC5- |     |       |PE3|--|       |
       |    |AC6--0=====0--ENNI4|   |  +-------+
       +----+     |     |       +---+
                  +-----+

Figure 4: Fast Convergence Upon ENNI Failure

As discussed in Section 4.2, it is highly desirable to have a mass-withdraw mechanism similar to
the one in
optimization is implemented, the following procedures are used:

. Although such an optimization is desirable, it is

[RFC7432]

OPTIONAL

. If the

1.

When a vES is configured, the PE advertises the ES route for this vES with a color that
corresponds to the associated physical port.

2.

All receiving PEs within the redundancy group record this color and compile a list of vESes
associated with it.

3.

Additionally, the PE advertises a Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route for EVPN, and a
Grouping B-MAC route for PBB-EVPN, which corresponds to the color and vES grouping.

4.

In the event of a port failure, such as an ENNI failure, the PE withdraws the previously
advertised Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route or Grouping B-MAC route associated with
the failed port. The PE should prioritize sending these Grouping route withdrawal messages
over the withdrawal of individual vES routes affected by the failure. For instance, as
depicted in Figure 4, when the physical port associated with ENNI3 fails on PE2, it
withdraws the previously advertised Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route. Upon receiving
this withdrawal message, other multihoming PEs (such as PE1 and PE3) recognize that the
vESes associated with CE1 and CE3 are impacted, based on the associated color, and thus
initiate the DF election procedure for these vESes. Furthermore, upon receiving this
withdrawal message, remote PEs (such as PE4) initiate the failover procedure for the vESes
associated with CE1 and CE3 and switch to the other PE for each vES redundancy group.

5.

On reception of Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route or Grouping B-MAC route withdrawal,
other PEs in the redundancy group initiate DF election procedures across all their affected
vESes.

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

6.

The PE with the physical port failure (ENNI failure) sends a vES route withdrawal for every
impacted vES. Upon receiving these messages, the other PEs clear up their BGP tables. It
should be noted that the vES route withdrawal messages are not used for executing DF
election procedures by the receiving PEs when Grouping Ethernet A-D per ES route or
Grouping B-MAC route withdrawal has been previously received.

6.  Security Considerations

All the security considerations in
 apply directly to this document
 and
because this document leverages the control and data plane procedures described in those
documents.

[RFC7432]

[RFC7623]

This document does not introduce any new security considerations beyond that of
[RFC7623]
follow that of physical ES in those RFCs.

 because advertisements and the processing of ES routes for vES in this document

[RFC7432]

 and

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7432]

[RFC7623]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8214]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Aggarwal, R. Bitar, N. Isaac, A. Uttaro, J. Drake, J.
Henderickx "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN" RFC 7432 DOI 10.17487/RFC7432
February 2015,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7432>
.

, and

,
,

W.

,

,

,

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Salam, S. Bitar, N. Isaac, A.
Backbone Bridging Combined with Ethernet VPN (PBB-EVPN)" RFC 7623 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7623>
10.17487/RFC7623

W. Henderickx "Provider
,

, September 2015,

, and

,
,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

.

,

,

,

,

Boutros, S. Sajassi, A. Salam, S. Drake, J.
Service Support in Ethernet VPN" RFC 8214 DOI 10.17487/RFC8214
,
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8214>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

J. Rabadan "Virtual Private Wire

, August

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

[RFC8365]

[RFC9135]

[RFC9541]

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Drake, J., Ed. Bitar, N. Shekhar, R. Uttaro, J.
"A Network Virtualization Overlay Solution Using Ethernet VPN (EVPN)" RFC
8365 DOI 10.17487/RFC8365
,
rfc8365>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

W. Henderickx
,

, March 2018,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Sajassi, A. Salam, S. Thoria, S. Drake, J.
,
and Bridging in Ethernet VPN (EVPN)" RFC 9135 DOI 10.17487/RFC9135
,
October 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9135>

J. Rabadan "Integrated Routing

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Rabadan, J., Ed. Sathappan, S. Nagaraj, K. Miyake, M.
Mechanism for Customer MAC Addresses Based on Service Instance Identifier (I-
SID) in Provider Backbone Bridging EVPN (PBB-EVPN)" RFC 9541 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9541

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9541>

T. Matsuda "Flush

, March 2024,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

8.2.  Informative References

[MEF63]

[RFC4377]

[RFC6310]

[RFC7023]

[RFC7080]

[RFC7209]

[RFC8584]

Metro Ethernet Forum "Subscriber Ethernet Services Definitions" MEF
Standard MEF 6.3
,
subscriber-ethernet-service-definitions>

<https://www.mef.net/resources/mef-6-3-

, November 2019,

,

,

.

,

,

Nadeau, T. Morrow, M. Swallow, G. Allan, D.
,
and Management (OAM) Requirements for Multi-Protocol Label Switched
(MPLS) Networks" RFC 4377 DOI 10.17487/RFC4377
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4377>

, February 2006,

, and

S. Matsushima "Operations

<https://

,

,

,

.

,

Aissaoui, M. Busschbach, P. Martini, L. Morrow, M. Nadeau, T.
"Pseudowire (PW) Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM)
Message Mapping" RFC 6310 DOI 10.17487/RFC6310
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6310>

, July 2011,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Y. Stein

,

,

Mohan, D., Ed. Bitar, N., Ed. Sajassi, A., Ed. DeLord, S. Niger, P.
"MPLS and Ethernet Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM)
Interworking" RFC 7023 DOI 10.17487/RFC7023
,
editor.org/info/rfc7023>
.

, October 2013,

, and

,

,

,

,

R. Qiu

,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Sajassi, A. Salam, S. Bitar, N.
Interoperability with Provider Backbone Bridges" RFC 7080 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7080

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7080>

F. Balus "Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS)

, December 2013,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Sajassi, A. Aggarwal, R. Uttaro, J. Bitar, N. Henderickx, W.
"Requirements for Ethernet VPN (EVPN)" RFC 7209 DOI 10.17487/RFC7209
2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7209>

A. Isaac

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

,

, May

,

Rabadan, J., Ed. Mohanty, S., Ed. Sajassi, A. Drake, J. Nagaraj, K.
,
Sathappan "Framework for Ethernet VPN Designated Forwarder Election
Extensibility" RFC 8584 DOI 10.17487/RFC8584
,
editor.org/info/rfc8584>
.

, April 2019,

, and

S.

,

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9784

EVPN Virtual Ethernet Segments

June 2025

[RFC9252]

,

Dawra, G., Ed. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Raszuk, R. Decraene, B. Zhuang, S.
Rabadan "BGP Overlay Services Based on Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)"
RFC 9252 DOI 10.17487/RFC9252
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, July 2022,
rfc9252>

,
,
.

, and

J.

,

,

,

,

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
this document and their feedback.

Mei Zhang Jose Liste
,

, and

Luc André Burdet

 for their reviews of

Authors' Addresses

Ali Sajassi
Cisco Systems
Email:

sajassi@cisco.com

Patrice Brissette
Cisco Systems
Email:

pbrisset@cisco.com

Rick Schell
Independent
Email:

rick_schell@outlook.com

John E. Drake
Independent
Email:

je_drake@yahoo.com

Jorge Rabadan
Nokia
Email:

jorge.rabadan@nokia.com

Sajassi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

