Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9773
Standards Track
June 2025
2070-1721
A. Gable
Internet Security Research Group

RFC 9773
ACME Renewal Information (ARI) Extension

Abstract

This document specifies how an Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME)
server may provide suggestions to ACME clients as to when they should attempt to renew their
certificates. This allows servers to mitigate load spikes and ensures that clients do not make false
assumptions about appropriate certificate renewal periods.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9773
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Gable

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9773

ACME ARI

June 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

3.  Extensions to the Directory Object

4.  Getting Renewal Information

4.1.  The RenewalInfo Resource

4.2.  RenewalInfo Objects

4.3.  Schedule for Checking the RenewalInfo Resource

4.3.1.  Server Choice of Retry-After

4.3.2.  Client Handling of Retry-After

4.3.3.  Error Handling

5.  Extensions to the Order Object

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  ACME Resource Type

7.2.  ACME RenewalInfo Object Fields

7.3.  ACME Order Object Fields

7.4.  ACME Error Types

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A. Example Certificate

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

3

3

4

4

4

5

6

7

7

7

7

9

9

9

9

10

10

11

11

11

12

12

12

Gable

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9773

ACME ARI

June 2025

1.  Introduction

Most ACME
ways:

[RFC8555]

 clients today choose when to attempt to renew a certificate in one of three

1.

they may be configured to renew at a specific interval (e.g., via cron),

2.

they may parse the issued certificate to determine its expiration date and renew a specific
amount of time before then, or

3.

they may parse the issued certificate and renew when some percentage of its validity period
has passed.

The first two create significant barriers against the issuing Certification Authority (CA) changing
certificate lifetimes. All three ways may lead to load clustering for the issuing CA due to its
inability to schedule renewal requests.

Allowing issuing CAs to suggest a period in which clients should renew their certificates enables
dynamic time-based load balancing. This allows a CA to better respond to exceptional
circumstances. For example:

•

a CA could suggest that clients renew prior to a mass-revocation event to mitigate the impact
of the revocation, or

•

a CA could suggest that clients renew earlier than they normally would to reduce the size of
an upcoming mass-renewal spike.

This document specifies the ACME Renewal Information (ARI) extension, a mechanism by which
ACME servers may provide suggested renewal windows to ACME clients and by which ACME
clients may inform ACME servers that they have successfully renewed and replaced a certificate.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Throughout this document, the word "renewal" and its variants are taken to encompass any
combination of "Renewal", "Re-Key", and "Modification" as defined in

[RFC3647]
.

This document assumes that the certificates being issued by the ACME server are in compliance
with
keyIdentifier field within that extension.

 and, in particular, contain the Authority Key Identifier extension and the

[RFC5280]

Gable

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9773

ACME ARI

June 2025

3.  Extensions to the Directory Object

An ACME server that wishes to provide renewal information
"renewalInfo", in its directory object.

MUST

 include a new field,

Field

URL in Value

renewalInfo

Renewal information

Table 1

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "newNonce": "https://acme.example.com/new-nonce",
  "newAccount": "https://acme.example.com/new-account",
  "newOrder": "https://acme.example.com/new-order",
  "newAuthz": "https://acme.example.com/new-authz",
  "revokeCert": "https://acme.example.com/revoke-cert",
  "keyChange": "https://acme.example.com/key-change",
  "renewalInfo": "https://acme.example.com/renewal-info",
  "meta": {
    "termsOfService": "https://example.com/acme/terms",
    "website": "https://example.com/acme/docs",
    "caaIdentities": ["example.com"],
    "externalAccountRequired": false
  }
}

4.  Getting Renewal Information

4.1.  The RenewalInfo Resource

The RenewalInfo resource is a new resource type introduced to the ACME protocol. This new
resource allows clients to query the server for suggestions on when they should renew
certificates.

To request the suggested renewal information for a certificate, the client sends an
unauthenticated GET request to a path under the server's renewalInfo URL.

The path component is a unique identifier for the certificate in question. The unique identifier is
constructed by concatenating the base64url encoding
 of the keyIdentifier field of the
[RFC5280]
 extension, the period character ".", and the
certificate's Authority Key Identifier (AKI)
base64url encoding of the DER-encoded Serial Number field (without the tag and length bytes).
All trailing "=" characters

 be stripped from both parts of the unique identifier.

[RFC4648]

MUST

Gable

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9773

ACME ARI

June 2025

Thus, the full request URL is constructed as follows (split onto multiple lines for readability),
where the "||" operator indicates string concatenation and the renewalInfo URL is taken from
the Directory object:

url = renewalInfo || '/' ||
      base64url(AKI keyIdentifier) || '.' || base64url(Serial)

For example, to request renewal information for the end-entity certificate given in Appendix A,
the client would make the request as follows:

1.

The keyIdentifier field of the certificate's AKI extension has the hexadecimal bytes
69:88:5B:6B:87:46:40:41:E1:B3:7B:84:7B:A0:AE:2C:DE:01:C8:D4 as its ASN.1 Octet
String value. The base64url encoding of those bytes is aYhba4dGQEHhs3uEe6CuLN4ByNQ=.

2.

The certificate's Serial Number field has the hexadecimal bytes 00:87:65:43:21 as its DER
encoding (note the leading zero byte to ensure the serial number remains positive despite
the leading 1 bit in 0x87). The base64url encoding of those bytes is AIdlQyE=.

3.

Stripping the trailing padding characters and concatenating with the separator, the unique
identifier is therefore aYhba4dGQEHhs3uEe6CuLN4ByNQ.AIdlQyE, and the client makes the
request:

GET /renewal-info/aYhba4dGQEHhs3uEe6CuLN4ByNQ.AIdlQyE HTTP/1.1
Host: acme.example.com
Accept: application/json

4.2.  RenewalInfo Objects

The structure of an ACME RenewalInfo object is as follows:

suggestedWindow (object, required):

A JSON object with two keys, "start" and "end", whose values are timestamps, encoded in the
format specified in
recommends renewing the certificate.

, which bound the window of time in which the CA

[RFC3339]

explanationURL (string, optional):

A URL pointing to a page that may explain why the suggested renewal window has its current
value. For example, it may be a page explaining the CA's dynamic load-balancing strategy or a
page documenting which certificates are affected by a mass-revocation event. Clients
SHOULD
provide this URL to their operator, if present.

Gable

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9773

ACME ARI

June 2025

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Retry-After: 21600

{
  "suggestedWindow": {
    "start": "2025-01-02T04:00:00Z",
    "end": "2025-01-03T04:00:00Z"
  },
  "explanationURL": "https://acme.example.com/docs/ari"
}

MUST

Clients
window. The following algorithm is

 attempt renewal at a time of their choosing based on the suggested renewal

RECOMMENDED

 for choosing a renewal time:

1.

Make a renewalInfo request to get a suggested renewal window.

2.

Select a uniform random time within the suggested window.

3.

If the selected time is in the past, attempt renewal immediately.

4.

Otherwise, if the client can schedule itself to attempt renewal at exactly the selected time, do
so.

5.

Otherwise, if the selected time is before the next time that the client would wake up
normally, attempt renewal immediately.

6.

Otherwise, sleep until the time indicated by the Retry-After header and return to Step 1.

In all cases, renewal attempts are subject to the client's existing error backoff and retry intervals.

In particular, cron-based clients may find they need to increase their run frequency to check ARI
more frequently. Those clients will need to store information about failures so that increasing
their run frequency doesn't lead to retrying failures without proper backoff. Typical information
stored should include: number of failures for a given order (defined by the set of identifiers on
the order) and time of the most recent failure.

A RenewalInfo object in which the end timestamp equals or precedes the start timestamp is
invalid. Servers
failed to receive any response from the server (e.g., retry at an appropriate interval, renew on a
fallback schedule, etc.).

 serve such a response, and clients

 treat one as though they

MUST NOT

MUST

4.3.  Schedule for Checking the RenewalInfo Resource

Clients

SHOULD

 fetch a certificate's RenewalInfo immediately after issuance.

During the lifetime of a certificate, the renewal information needs to be fetched frequently
enough that clients learn about changes in the suggested window quickly, but without
overwhelming the server. This protocol uses the Retry-After header
clients how often to retry. Note that in other HTTP applications, Retry-After often indicates the
minimum time to wait before retrying a request. In this protocol, it indicates the desired (i.e.,
both requested minimum and maximum) amount of time to wait.

 to indicate to

[RFC9110]

Gable

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9773

ACME ARI

June 2025

MUST NOT

 check a certificate's RenewalInfo after the certificate has expired. Clients
Clients
 check a certificate's RenewalInfo after they consider the certificate to be replaced (for
NOT
instance, after a new certificate for the same identifiers has been received and configured).

MUST

4.3.1.  Server Choice of Retry-After

Servers set the Retry-After header based on their requirements on how quickly to perform a
revocation. For instance, a server that needs to revoke certificates within 24 hours of notification
of a problem might choose to reserve twelve hours for investigation, six hours for clients to fetch
updated RenewalInfo objects, and six hours for clients to perform a renewal. Setting a small
value for Retry-After means that clients can respond more quickly but also incurs more load on
the server. Servers should estimate their expected load based on the number of clients, keeping
in mind that third parties may also monitor renewalInfo endpoints.

4.3.2.  Client Handling of Retry-After

After an initial fetch of a certificate's RenewalInfo, clients
after the time indicated in the Retry-After header (backoff on errors takes priority, though).
Clients
minute could be treated as if they were one minute, and values over one day could be treated as
if they were one day.

 set reasonable limits on their checking interval. For example, values under one

 fetch it again as soon as possible

MUST

MUST

4.3.3.  Error Handling

Temporary errors include, for instance:

•

Connection timeout

•

Request timeout

•

5xx HTTP errors

On receiving a temporary error, clients
tries. If all tries are exhausted, clients

SHOULD

 do exponential backoff with a capped number of

MUST

 treat the request as a long-term error.

Examples of long-term errors include:

•

Retry-After is invalid or not present

•

RenewalInfo object is invalid

•

DNS lookup failure

•

Connection refused

•

Non-5xx HTTP error

On receiving a long-term error, clients
possible after six hours have passed (or some other locally configured default).

 make the next renewalInfo request as soon as

MUST

5.  Extensions to the Order Object

In order to convey information regarding which certificate requests represent renewals of
previous certificates, a new field is added to the Order object:

Gable

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9773

ACME ARI

June 2025

replaces (string, optional):

A string uniquely identifying a previously issued certificate that this order is intended to
replace. This unique identifier is constructed in the same way as the path component for GET
requests described in Section 4.1.

SHOULD

 include this field in newOrder requests if there is a clear predecessor certificate,

Clients
as is the case for most certificate renewals. Clients
server has not indicated that it supports this protocol by advertising the renewalInfo resource
in its Directory.

 include this field if the ACME

SHOULD NOT

POST /new-order HTTP/1.1
Host: acme.example.com
Content-Type: application/jose+json

{
  "protected": base64url({
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "https://acme.example.com/acct/evOfKhNU60wg",
    "nonce": "5XJ1L3lEkMG7tR6pA00clA",
    "url": "https://acme.example.com/new-order"
  }),
  "payload": base64url({
    "identifiers": [
      { "type": "dns", "value": "acme.example.com" }
    ],
    "replaces": "aYhba4dGQEHhs3uEe6CuLN4ByNQ.AIdlQyE"
  }),
  "signature": "H6ZXtGjTZyUnPeKn...wEA4TklBdh3e454g"
}

SHOULD

 check that the identified certificate and the newOrder request correspond to

Servers
the same ACME Account, that they share at least one identifier, and that the identified certificate
has not already been marked as replaced by a different Order that is not "invalid".
Correspondence checks beyond this (such as requiring exact identifier matching) are left up to
server policy. If any of these checks fail, the server
 reject the newOrder request. If the
server rejects the request because the identified certificate has already been marked as replaced,
it
Section 7.4).

 return an HTTP 409 (Conflict) with a problem document of type "alreadyReplaced" (see

SHOULD

MUST

If the server accepts a newOrder request with a "replaces" field, it
response and in subsequent requests for the corresponding Order object.

MUST

 reflect that field in the

This replacement information may serve many purposes, including but not limited to:

•

granting newOrder requests that arrive during the suggested renewal window of their
identified predecessor certificate higher priority or allowing them to bypass rate limits, if
the server's policy uses such;

•

tracking the replacement of certificates that have been affected by a compliance incident, so
that they can be revoked immediately after they are replaced; and

Gable

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9773

ACME ARI

June 2025

•

tying together certificates issued under the same contract with an entity identified by
External Account Binding.

6.  Security Considerations

The extensions to the ACME protocol described in this document build upon the security
considerations and threat model defined in

Section 10.1 of [RFC8555]
.

This document specifies that RenewalInfo resources are exposed and accessed via
unauthenticated GET requests, a departure from the requirement in RFC 8555 that clients send
POST-as-GET requests to fetch resources from the server. This is because the information
contained in RenewalInfo resources is not considered confidential and because allowing
RenewalInfo resources to be easily cached is advantageous to shed the load from clients that do
not respect the Retry-After header. As always, servers should take measures to ensure that
unauthenticated requests for renewal information cannot result in denial-of-service attacks.
These measures might include ensuring that a cache does not include superfluous request
headers or query parameters in its cache key, instituting IP-based rate limits, or other general
best-practice measures.

Note that this protocol could exhibit undesired behavior in the presence of significant clock
skew between the ACME client and server. For example, if a server places the suggested renewal
window wholly in the past to encourage a client to renew immediately, a client with a
sufficiently slow clock might nonetheless see the window as being in the future. Similarly, a
server that wishes to schedule renewals very precisely may have difficulty doing so if some
clients have skewed clocks (or do not implement ARI at all). Server operators should take this
concern into account when setting suggested renewal windows. However, many other protocols
(including TLS handshakes themselves) fall apart with sufficient clock skew, so this is not unique
to this protocol.

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  ACME Resource Type

IANA has added the following entry to the "ACME Resource Types" registry within the
"Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) Protocol" registry group at
www.iana.org/assignments/acme>
:

<https://

Field Name

Resource Type

Reference

renewalInfo

RenewalInfo object

This document

Table 2

7.2.  ACME RenewalInfo Object Fields

IANA has added the following new registry to the "Automated Certificate Management
Environment (ACME) Protocol" registry group at

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/acme>
:

Gable

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9773

ACME ARI

June 2025

Registry Name:

ACME RenewalInfo Object Fields

Registration Procedure:

Specification Required (see
fields added to this registry carry useful and unique information that does not better belong
elsewhere in the ACME protocol.

). The designated expert should ensure that any new

[RFC8126]

Template:

Field name:
Field type:
Reference:

Initial contents:

The string to be used as a field name in the JSON object

The type of value to be provided, e.g., string, boolean, array of string
Where this field is defined

Field Name

Field Type

Reference

suggestedWindow object

This document

explanationURL

string

This document

Table 3

7.3.  ACME Order Object Fields

IANA has added the following entry to the "ACME Order Object Fields" registry within the
"Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) Protocol" registry group at
www.iana.org/assignments/acme>
:

<https://

Field Name

Field Type

Configurable

Reference

replaces

string

true

This document

Table 4

7.4.  ACME Error Types

IANA has added the following entry to the "ACME Error Types" registry within the "Automated
Certificate Management Environment (ACME) Protocol" registry group at
assignments/acme>
:

<https://www.iana.org/

Type

Description

Reference

alreadyReplaced

The request specified a predecessor certificate that has
already been marked as replaced

This
document

Table 5

Gable

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9773

ACME ARI

June 2025

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3339]

[RFC4648]

[RFC5280]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8555]

[RFC9110]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Klyne, G.
3339 DOI 10.17487/RFC3339
,
rfc3339>

.

C. Newman "Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps" RFC

,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2002,

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Barnes, R. Hoffman-Andrews, J. McCarney, D.
J. Kasten "Automatic
Certificate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8555 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8555

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8555>

, March 2019,

, and
,

,

,

,

.

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

8.2.  Informative References

[RFC3647]

[RFC8126]

,

Chokhani, S. Ford, W. Sabett, R. Merrill, C.
,
Key Infrastructure Certificate Policy and Certification Practices Framework"
RFC 3647 DOI 10.17487/RFC3647
info/rfc3647>

S. Wu "Internet X.509 Public
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 2003,

, and

,

,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Gable

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9773

ACME ARI

June 2025

Appendix A. Example Certificate

-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
MIIBQzCB66ADAgECAgUAh2VDITAKBggqhkjOPQQDAjAVMRMwEQYDVQQDEwpFeGFt
cGxlIENBMCIYDzAwMDEwMTAxMDAwMDAwWhgPMDAwMTAxMDEwMDAwMDBaMBYxFDAS
BgNVBAMTC2V4YW1wbGUuY29tMFkwEwYHKoZIzj0CAQYIKoZIzj0DAQcDQgAEeBZu
7cbpAYNXZLbbh8rNIzuOoqOOtmxA1v7cRm//AwyMwWxyHz4zfwmBhcSrf47NUAFf
qzLQ2PPQxdTXREYEnKMjMCEwHwYDVR0jBBgwFoAUaYhba4dGQEHhs3uEe6CuLN4B
yNQwCgYIKoZIzj0EAwIDRwAwRAIge09+S5TZAlw5tgtiVvuERV6cT4mfutXIlwTb
+FYN/8oCIClDsqBklhB9KAelFiYt9+6FDj3z4KGVelYM5MdsO3pK
-----END CERTIFICATE-----

Acknowledgments

 and

Roland Shoemaker

Jacob Hoffman-Andrews

My thanks to
of ARI and for helping me learn the IETF process. Thanks also to
Liusvaara
contributing an independent server implementation. Finally, thanks to
J.C. Jones
Ayer
improved this specification.

Wouter Tinus

, and

, and

 for contributing client implementations, and to

 for coming up with the initial idea
Samantha Frank Matt Holt Ilari
,

,
 for
Rob Stradling Andrew

Freddy Zhang
,

 for providing meaningful feedback and suggestions that significantly

Author's Address

A. Gable
Internet Security Research Group
Email:

aaron@letsencrypt.org

Gable

Standards Track

Page 12

