Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9167
Standards Track
December 2021
2070-1721
T. Sattler

R. Carney
GoDaddy Inc.

J. Kolker
GoDaddy Inc.

RFC 9167
Registry Maintenance Notiﬁcation for the Extensible
Provisioning Protocol (EPP)

Abstract

This document describes an Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) extension called "Registry
Maintenance Notiﬁcation", which is used by EPP servers to notify EPP clients and allow EPP
clients to query EPP servers regarding maintenance events.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9167
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology and Deﬁnitions

2.  Migrating to Newer Versions of This Extension

3.  Object Attributes

3.1.  Internationalized Domain Names

3.2.  Dates and Times

3.3.  Maintenance Elements

4.  EPP Command Mapping

4.1.  EPP Query Commands

4.1.1.  EPP <info> Command

4.1.2.  EPP <poll> Command

4.2.  EPP Transform Commands

5.  Formal Syntax

5.1.  Registry Maintenance Notiﬁcation EPP Mapping Schema

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  XML Namespace

6.2.  EPP Extension Registry

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

1.  Introduction

The Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP), as deﬁned in
motivation is to provide a standard Internet domain name registration protocol for use between
registries and registrars.

, is a protocol whose original

[RFC5730]

Registries routinely update systems to ensure a higher quality of service, implement new services,
or upgrade protocols to the latest standards. These updates are pushed to various registry
environments during time frames communicated to registrars as "maintenance events".
Maintenance events may require making services unavailable for some limited time while the
upgrade happens. Registries usually inform registrars about maintenance events in various
formats, none of which are standardized between registries.

The DNS namespace expansion has led to many additional registries that registrars must interact
with, adding more maintenance events and formats. It is now desirable to provide an eﬃcient
approach to notify registrars.

This document describes an extension mapping for version 1.0 of the EPP to provide a
mechanism by which EPP servers may notify EPP clients of and allow EPP clients to query EPP
servers on upcoming maintenance events.

1.1.  Terminology and Deﬁnitions

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

XML
[W3C.REC-xml-20081126]
examples provided in this document
MUST
to develop a conforming implementation.

 is case sensitive. Unless stated otherwise, XML speciﬁcations and

 be interpreted in the character case presented in order

The XML namespace preﬁx "maint" is used for the namespace
 depend on it and
"urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:maintenance-1.0", but implementations
instead employ a proper namespace-aware XML parser and serializer to interpret and output the
XML documents.

MUST NOT

"ote" is an abbreviation for "Operational Test and Evaluation".

In examples, "C:" represents lines sent by a protocol client, and "S:" represents lines returned by a
protocol server. Indentation and white space in examples are provided only to illustrate element
relationships and are not a required feature of this protocol.

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

2.  Migrating to Newer Versions of This Extension

Servers that implement this extension
their implementations when a new version of the extension is deployed. A newer version of the
extension is expected to use an XML namespace with a higher version number than the prior
versions.

 provide a way for clients to progressively update

SHOULD

SHOULD

 (for a temporary migration period up to server policy) provide support for older

Servers
versions of the extension in parallel to the newest version and allow clients to execute their
preferred version of the <info> command based on the maintenance <objURI> elements of the
server <greeting>. The version of the maintenance <info> response
maintenance <info> command executed by the server.

 match the version of the

MUST

MUST

 return a Registry Maintenance Notiﬁcation poll message matching the newest

Servers
negotiated version of the maintenance extension, based on an intersection of the maintenance
<objURI> elements in the server <greeting> and the client <login> command. If the intersection of
the maintenance <objURI> elements of the server <greeting> and the client <login> command
results in an empty set, the server
Notiﬁcation poll message supported by the server based on "Usage with Poll-Message EPP
Responses" in

 return the newest version of the Registry Maintenance

Section 6 of [RFC9038]

MUST

.

3.  Object Attributes

3.1.  Internationalized Domain Names

Names of aﬀected hosts

MUST

 be provided in A-label form, according to

[RFC5891]

.

3.2.  Dates and Times

All date and time attribute values
MUST
the Gregorian calendar. The date-time format deﬁned as "date-time" in
oﬀset="Z",

 be used.

MUST

 be expressed in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC) using

[RFC3339]

, with time-

3.3.  Maintenance Elements

The <maint:item> element describes a single registry maintenance event during a speciﬁc period.
This element is used in a maintenance item EPP <info> command and response as well as in a
<poll> response.

If an element is not marked as optional, it is mandatory.

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

<maint:id>

The server-unique identiﬁer for the maintenance event with the
that includes a human-readable name of the event. The server-unique identiﬁer
changed if the event is updated or deleted. When the "name" attribute is set, the
"lang" attribute, per the language structure in
language if the negotiated value is something other than the default value of "en" (English).

 "name" attribute
SHALL NOT

 be present to identify the

[RFC5646] MAY

OPTIONAL

OPTIONAL

,

 be

<maint:type>

OPTIONAL

 types of the maintenance event, with the possible set of values
Zero or more
deﬁned by server policy, such as "Routine Maintenance", "Software Update", "Software
Upgrade", or "Extended Outage". The
language if the negotiated value is something other than the default value of "en" (English).

 "lang" attribute

 be present to identify the

OPTIONAL

MAY

MUST

 be "create", "update", "delete", "courtesy", or "end". For the "create" and

 <maint:pollType> element for a Registry Maintenance Notiﬁcation poll

<maint:pollType>
The
OPTIONAL
message; values
"update" types, the server includes the state of the maintenance event after the creation or
update. For the "delete" type, the server includes the state of the event before the delete. The
"courtesy" provides a reminder of an event, and the "end" provides a notiﬁcation of the end of
the event without updating the maintenance object and includes the latest state of the event.
This element

 be present only for poll messages.

MUST

<maint:systems>

One or more <maint:system> elements that are aﬀected by the maintenance event.

<maint:system>

The <maint:system> element contains the following child elements:

<maint:name>

The name of the aﬀected system, such as "EPP", "WHOIS", "DNS", "Portal", "RDAP", etc.

<maint:host>

OPTIONAL

The
according to

[RFC5891]

.

 aﬀected maintained system's hostname, which

SHALL

 be in A-label form,

<maint:impact>

The impact level; the values
intermittently unavailable, it is "partial". If access is expected to be completely
unavailable, it is "full". If access is not aﬀected, it is "none".

 be "full", "partial", or "none". If access is expected to be

MUST

<maint:environment>

The type of the aﬀected system; the attribute "type" is
"ote", "staging", "dev", or "custom". For extensibility, the <maint:environment> element
 "name" attribute that can deﬁne the name of the custom environment
includes the
when the <maint:environment> element "type" attribute has the "custom" value. For example,
for the custom "marketing" environment, the <maint:environment> element should be:
<maint:environment type="custom" name="marketing"/>.

 be "production",

OPTIONAL

REQUIRED

 and

MUST

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

<maint:start>

The date and time of the start of the maintenance event.

<maint:end>

The date and time of the end of the maintenance event. The <maint:end> element
greater than the <maint:start> element.

MUST

 be

<maint:reason>

The reason behind the maintenance event; the values
"emergency".

MUST

 be either "planned" or

<maint:detail>

OPTIONAL

 URI to the detailed maintenance event description, formatted according to

The
[RFC3986]

.

OPTIONAL

 free-form descriptions of the maintenance event, usable without

<maint:description>
Zero or more
creating and traversing an external resource as deﬁned by the <maint:detail> element. The
 be present to identify the language if the negotiated value is
OPTIONAL
something other than the default value of "en" (English). The
MAY
present to identify the format of the description. It
"html" for HTML text, as deﬁned in

 be either "plain" for plain text or

, and XML-escaped, with a default value of "plain".

 "lang" attribute

 "type" attribute

OPTIONAL

[HTML5]

MUST

MAY

 be

<maint:tlds>

OPTIONAL

The
<maint:tlds> is not present, the entire system is aﬀected.

 <maint:tlds> element contains one or more <maint:tld> child elements. If the

<maint:tld>

The aﬀected top-level domain or registry zone, which
to

[RFC5891]

.

SHALL

 be in A-label form, according

<maint:intervention>

The

OPTIONAL

 <maint:intervention> element contains the following child elements:

<maint:connection>
SHALL

 be boolean and indicates if a client needs to perform a connection-

The value
related action such as a reconnect. The attribute should only be used as a ﬂag to
indicate connections will be aﬀected. Servers
 include a description of how the
connections are aﬀected in the <maint:description> element or use the <maint:detail>
element above.

SHOULD

<maint:implementation>

SHALL

 be boolean and indicates if a client needs to perform an

The value
implementation-related action such as a code change. The attribute should only be used
as a ﬂag to indicate implementation will be aﬀected. Servers
description of how the implementation is aﬀected in the <maint:description> element
or use the <maint:detail> element above.

 include a

SHOULD

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

<maint:crDate>

The date and time of the maintenance object creation.

<maint:upDate>

OPTIONAL

The
element

 date and time of the most recent maintenance object modiﬁcation. This
 be present if the maintenance object has never been modiﬁed.

MUST NOT

4.  EPP Command Mapping

A detailed description of the EPP syntax and semantics can be found in the EPP core protocol
speciﬁcation
registrars of registry maintenance events and object mapping.

. The command mappings described here are speciﬁcally used to notify

[RFC5730]

4.1.  EPP Query Commands

[RFC5730]

 provides three commands to retrieve object information: <check> to determine if

EPP
an object is known to the server, <info> to retrieve detailed information associated with an
object, and <transfer> to retrieve object transfer status information.

This extension does not add any elements to EPP <check> and <transfer> commands or
responses.

4.1.1.  EPP <info> Command

EPP provides the <info> command that is used to retrieve registry maintenance information. In
addition to the standard EPP command elements, the <info> command
<maint:info> element that identiﬁes the maintenance namespace.

 contain a

MUST

The <maint:info> element
described in Section 4.1.1.1, to query for a speciﬁc maintenance item or the <maint:list> child
element, described in Section 4.1.1.2, to query all maintenance items.

 contain a child element. It is either the <maint:id> child element,

MUST

4.1.1.1.  Info Maintenance Item

The information regarding a speciﬁc maintenance item can be retrieved by using the <info>
command with the <maint:info> element and the <maint:id> child element, deﬁned in Section 3.3.
If the maintenance identiﬁer does not exist, the server
2303 ("Object does not exist")

 return an EPP error result code of

[RFC5730]

MUST

.

The following is an example of retrieving a speciﬁc maintenance item in an <info> command.

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

C:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
C:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:  <command>
C:    <info>
C:      <maint:info
C:        xmlns:maint="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:maintenance-1.0">
C:        <maint:id>2e6df9b0-4092-4491-bcc8-9fb2166dcee6</maint:id>
C:      </maint:info>
C:    </info>
C:    <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
C:  </command>
C:</epp>

When an <info> command has been processed successfully, the EPP <resData> element
contain a child <maint:infData> element that identiﬁes the maintenance namespace. The
<maint:infData> element contains the <maint:item> element deﬁned in Section 3.3.

MUST

The following is an example of returning a speciﬁc maintenance item in an <info> response.

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

S:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
S:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:      <result code="1000">
S:         <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:      </result>
S:      <resData>
S:        <maint:infData
S:          xmlns:maint="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:maintenance-1.0">
S:          <maint:item>
S:            <maint:id>2e6df9b0-4092-4491-bcc8-9fb2166dcee6
S:            </maint:id>
S:            <maint:type lang="en">Routine Maintenance</maint:type>
S:            <maint:systems>
S:              <maint:system>
S:                <maint:name>EPP</maint:name>
S:                <maint:host>epp.registry.example
S:                </maint:host>
S:                <maint:impact>full</maint:impact>
S:              </maint:system>
S:            </maint:systems>
S:            <maint:environment type="production"/>
S:            <maint:start>2021-12-30T06:00:00Z</maint:start>
S:            <maint:end>2021-12-30T07:00:00Z</maint:end>
S:            <maint:reason>planned</maint:reason>
S:            <maint:detail>
S:              https://www.registry.example/notice?123
S:            </maint:detail>
S:            <maint:description lang="en">free-text
S:            </maint:description>
S:            <maint:description lang="de">Freitext
S:            </maint:description>
S:            <maint:tlds>
S:              <maint:tld>example</maint:tld>
S:              <maint:tld>test</maint:tld>
S:            </maint:tlds>
S:            <maint:intervention>
S:              <maint:connection>false</maint:connection>
S:              <maint:implementation>false</maint:implementation>
S:            </maint:intervention>
S:            <maint:crDate>2021-11-08T22:10:00Z</maint:crDate>
S:          </maint:item>
S:        </maint:infData>
S:      </resData>
S:      <trID>
S:         <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:         <svTRID>54321-XYZ</svTRID>
S:      </trID>
S:   </response>
S:</epp>

4.1.1.2.  Info Maintenance List

The information for a list of maintenance items can be retrieved by using the <info> command
with the <maint:info> element and the empty <maint:list> child element. Server policy
determines if completed maintenance events will be included in the list of maintenance items.

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

The following is an example of retrieving the list of maintenance items in an <info> command.

C:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
C:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:  <command>
C:    <info>
C:      <maint:info
C:        xmlns:maint="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:maintenance-1.0">
C:        <maint:list/>
C:      </maint:info>
C:    </info>
C:    <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
C:  </command>
C:</epp>

When an <info> command has been processed successfully, the EPP <resData> element
contain a child <maint:infData> element that identiﬁes the maintenance namespace. The
<maint:infData> element contains the <maint:list> element with zero or more <maint:listItem>
child elements. The <maint:listItem> element contains the following child elements:

MUST

<maint:id>

The <maint:id> element deﬁned in Section 3.3.

<maint:start>

The <maint:start> element deﬁned in Section 3.3.

<maint:end>

The <maint:end> element deﬁned in Section 3.3.

<maint:crDate>

The <maint:crDate> element deﬁned in Section 3.3.

<maint:upDate>

The

OPTIONAL

 <maint:upDate> element deﬁned in Section 3.3.

The following is an example of returning the list of maintenance items in an <info> response.

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

S:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
S:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:      <result code="1000">
S:         <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:      </result>
S:      <resData>
S:        <maint:infData
S:          xmlns:maint="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:maintenance-1.0">
S:          <maint:list>
S:            <maint:listItem>
S:              <maint:id>2e6df9b0-4092-4491-bcc8-9fb2166dcee6
S:              </maint:id>
S:              <maint:start>2021-12-30T06:00:00Z</maint:start>
S:              <maint:end>2021-12-30T07:00:00Z</maint:end>
S:              <maint:crDate>2021-11-08T22:10:00Z</maint:crDate>
S:            </maint:listItem>
S:            <maint:listItem>
S:              <maint:id>91e9dabf-c4e9-4c19-a56c-78e3e89c2e2f
S:              </maint:id>
S:              <maint:start>2021-12-15T04:30:00Z</maint:start>
S:              <maint:end>2021-12-15T05:30:00Z</maint:end>
S:              <maint:crDate>2021-11-08T22:11:00Z</maint:crDate>
S:              <maint:upDate>2021-11-17T15:00:00Z</maint:upDate>
S:            </maint:listItem>
S:          </maint:list>
S:        </maint:infData>
S:      </resData>
S:      <trID>
S:         <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:         <svTRID>54321-XYZ</svTRID>
S:      </trID>
S:   </response>
S:</epp>

4.1.2.  EPP <poll> Command

The EPP <poll> command and response are deﬁned in
Maintenance Notiﬁcation is included in the EPP <poll> response in

[RFC5730]

.

Section 2.9.2.3 of [RFC5730]

. The Registry

There are ﬁve types of poll messages for the Registry Maintenance Notiﬁcation, deﬁned by the
<maint:pollType> element in Section 3.3. A poll message might be generated when a maintenance
event is created, updated, or deleted. A courtesy poll message can be sent as a reminder of an
upcoming maintenance event. An end poll message can be sent when the maintenance event is
completed. In the case of a message speciﬁc to Registry Maintenance, a <maint:infData> element
that identiﬁes the maintenance namespace will be included within the <resData> element of the
standard <poll> response. The <maint:infData> element contains the <maint:item> element
deﬁned in Section 3.3.

The following is an example of a <poll> command:

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

C:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
C:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:  <command>
C:    <poll op="req"/>
C:    <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
C:  </command>
C:</epp>

Example <poll> response:

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

S:<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
S:<epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:  <response>
S:    <result code="1301">
S:      <msg>Command completed successfully; ack to dequeue</msg>
S:    </result>
S:  <msgQ count="1" id="12345">
S:    <qDate>2021-11-08T22:10:00Z</qDate>
S:    <msg lang="en">Registry Maintenance Notification</msg>
S:  </msgQ>
S:  <resData>
S:    <maint:infData
S:      xmlns:maint="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:maintenance-1.0">
S:      <maint:item>
S:        <maint:id>2e6df9b0-4092-4491-bcc8-9fb2166dcee6</maint:id>
S:        <maint:pollType>create</maint:pollType>
S:        <maint:systems>
S:          <maint:system>
S:            <maint:name>EPP</maint:name>
S:            <maint:host>epp.registry.example
S:            </maint:host>
S:            <maint:impact>full</maint:impact>
S:          </maint:system>
S:        </maint:systems>
S:        <maint:environment type="production"/>
S:        <maint:start>2021-12-30T06:00:00Z</maint:start>
S:        <maint:end>2021-12-30T07:00:00Z</maint:end>
S:        <maint:reason>planned</maint:reason>
S:        <maint:detail>
S:          https://www.registry.example/notice?123
S:        </maint:detail>
S:        <maint:tlds>
S:          <maint:tld>example</maint:tld>
S:          <maint:tld>test</maint:tld>
S:        </maint:tlds>
S:        <maint:intervention>
S:          <maint:connection>false</maint:connection>
S:          <maint:implementation>false</maint:implementation>
S:        </maint:intervention>
S:        <maint:crDate>2021-11-08T22:10:00Z</maint:crDate>
S:      </maint:item>
S:    </maint:infData>
S:  </resData>
S:  <trID>
S:    <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:    <svTRID>54321-XYZ</svTRID>
S:  </trID>
S:  </response>
S:</epp>

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

4.2.  EPP Transform Commands

EPP provides ﬁve commands to transform objects: <create> to create an instance of an object,
<delete> to delete an instance of an object, <renew> to extend the validity period of an object,
<transfer> to manage object sponsorship changes, and <update> to change information
associated with an object.

This extension does not add any elements to the EPP <create>, <delete>, <renew>, <transfer>, and
<update> commands.

5.  Formal Syntax

The EPP Registry Maintenance Notiﬁcation schema is presented here.

The formal syntax is a complete schema representation of the object mapping suitable for
automated validation of EPP XML instances. The <CODE BEGINS> and <CODE ENDS> tags are not
part of the schema; they are used to note the beginning and end of the schema for URI
registration purposes.

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

5.1.  Registry Maintenance Notiﬁcation EPP Mapping Schema

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

<CODE BEGINS>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <schema targetNamespace="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:
    maintenance-1.0"
    xmlns:eppcom="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:eppcom-1.0"
    xmlns:epp="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0"
    xmlns:maint="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:maintenance-1.0"
    xmlns="https://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
    elementFormDefault="qualified">
  <!--
  Import common element types
  -->
  <import namespace="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:eppcom-1.0"/>
  <import namespace="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0"/>
  <annotation>
    <documentation>
      Extensible Provisioning Protocol v1.0
      Registry Maintenance Notification Mapping Schema.
    </documentation>
  </annotation>
  <!--
  Child elements found in EPP commands.
  -->
  <element name="info" type="maint:infoType"/>
  <!--
   Child elements of the <info> command.
  -->
  <complexType name="infoType">
    <sequence>
      <choice>
        <element name="list"/>
        <element name="id" type="maint:idType"/>
      </choice>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>
  <!--
  Human-readable text may describe the maintenance
  -->
  <complexType name="idType">
    <simpleContent>
      <extension base="token">
        <attribute name="name" type="token"/>
        <attribute name="lang" type="language" default="en"/>
      </extension>
    </simpleContent>
  </complexType>
  <!--
   Info Response element
  -->
  <element name="infData" type="maint:infDataType"/>
  <!--
   <info> response elements.
  -->
  <complexType name="infDataType">
    <choice>
      <element name="list" type="maint:listDataType"/>
      <element name="item" type="maint:maintDataType"/>

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

    </choice>
  </complexType>
  <!--
   Attributes associated with the list info response
  -->
  <complexType name="listDataType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="listItem" type="maint:maintItemType"
       minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>
  <!--
   Attributes associated with the list item info response
  -->
  <complexType name="maintItemType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="id" type="maint:idType"/>
      <element name="start" type="dateTime"/>
      <element name="end" type="dateTime"/>
      <element name="crDate" type="dateTime"/>
      <element name="upDate" type="dateTime" minOccurs="0"/>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>
  <!--
   Attributes associated with the maintenance info response
  -->
  <complexType name="maintDataType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="id" type="maint:idType"/>
      <element name="type" type="maint:typeType" minOccurs="0"
       maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
      <element name="pollType" type="maint:pollType" minOccurs="0"/>
      <element name="systems" type="maint:systemsType"/>
      <element name="environment" type="maint:envType"/>
      <element name="start" type="dateTime"/>
      <element name="end" type="dateTime"/>
      <element name="reason" type="maint:reasonEnum"/>
      <element name="detail" type="anyURI" minOccurs="0"/>
      <element name="description" type="maint:descriptionType"
       minOccurs="0" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
      <element name="tlds" type="maint:tldsType" minOccurs="0"/>
      <element name="intervention" type="maint:interventionType"
       minOccurs="0"/>
      <element name="crDate" type="dateTime"/>
      <element name="upDate" type="dateTime" minOccurs="0"/>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>
  <!--
   systems element
  -->
  <complexType name="systemsType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="system" type="maint:systemType"
       maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>
  <!--
   Enumerated list of poll types

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

  -->
  <simpleType name="pollType">
    <restriction base="token">
      <enumeration value="create"/>
      <enumeration value="update"/>
      <enumeration value="delete"/>
      <enumeration value="courtesy"/>
      <enumeration value="end"/>
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>
  <!--
   Enumerated list of impacts
  -->
  <simpleType name="impactEnum">
    <restriction base="token">
      <enumeration value="none"/>
      <enumeration value="partial"/>
      <enumeration value="full"/>
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>
  <!--
   description element
  -->
  <complexType name="descriptionType">
    <simpleContent>
      <extension base="string">
        <attribute name="lang" type="language" default="en"/>
        <attribute name="type" type="maint:descEnum" default="plain"
        />
      </extension>
    </simpleContent>
  </complexType>
  <!--
   Enumerated list of description mime types
  -->
  <simpleType name="descEnum">
    <restriction base="token">
      <enumeration value="plain"/>
      <enumeration value="html"/>
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>
  <!--
   type element
  -->
  <complexType name="typeType">
    <simpleContent>
      <extension base="string">
        <attribute name="lang" type="language" default="en"/>
      </extension>
    </simpleContent>
  </complexType>
  <!--
   system element
  -->
  <complexType name="systemType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="name" type="token"/>
      <element name="host" type="eppcom:labelType" minOccurs="0"/>

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

      <element name="impact" type="maint:impactEnum"/>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>
  <!--
   Enumerated list of environments
  -->
  <simpleType name="envEnum">
    <restriction base="token">
      <enumeration value="production"/>
      <enumeration value="ote"/>
      <enumeration value="staging"/>
      <enumeration value="dev"/>
      <enumeration value="custom"/>
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>
  <!--
   environment element
  -->
  <complexType name="envType">
    <simpleContent>
      <extension base="token">
        <attribute name="type" type="maint:envEnum" use="required"/>
        <attribute name="name" type="token" use="optional"/>
      </extension>
    </simpleContent>
  </complexType>
  <!--
   Enumerated list of reasons
  -->
  <simpleType name="reasonEnum">
    <restriction base="token">
      <enumeration value="planned"/>
      <enumeration value="emergency"/>
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>
  <!--
   tlds element
  -->
  <complexType name="tldsType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="tld" type="eppcom:labelType"
       maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>
  <!--
   intervention element
  -->
  <complexType name="interventionType">
    <sequence>
      <element name="connection" type="boolean"/>
      <element name="implementation" type="boolean"/>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>
  <!--
   End of schema.
  -->
  </schema>

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

<CODE ENDS>

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  XML Namespace

This document uses URNs to describe XML namespaces and XML schemas conforming to a
registry mechanism deﬁned in

[RFC3688]

.

The following entry has been registered as an XML namespace:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:maintenance-1.0

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

IESG

None. Namespace URIs do not represent an XML speciﬁcation.

The following entry has been registered to the XML maintenance schema:

urn:ietf:params:xml:schema:epp:maintenance-1.0

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

IESG

See the "Formal Syntax" section of this document.

6.2.  EPP Extension Registry

The following entry has been added to the "Extensions for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol
(EPP)" registry, described in

[RFC7451]

:

Name of Extension:

Registry Maintenance Notiﬁcation for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol

(EPP)

Standards Track

Document status:
RFC 9167
Reference:
Registrant Name and Email Address:
TLDs:
IPR Disclosure:
Active
Status:
None
Notes:

None

Any

IESG <iesg@ietf.org>

7.  Security Considerations

[RFC5730]

The security considerations of
provide maintenance information to clients that are authorized. Suppose a client queries a
maintenance identiﬁer that it is not authorized to access per Section 4.1.1.1, "Info Maintenance
Item". In that case, the server
error") or 2303 ("Object does not exist")

 return an EPP error result code of 2201 ("Authorization

 apply in this document. Additionally, a server

. The list of top-level domains or registry zones

[RFC5730]

SHOULD

MUST

 only

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

returned in the "Info Maintenance Item" response
domains or registry zones for which the client is authorized. Authorization of poll messages is
done at the time of poll message insertion and not at the time of poll message consumption.

 be ﬁltered based on the top-level

SHOULD

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[HTML5]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3339]

[RFC3986]

[RFC5646]

[RFC5730]

[RFC5891]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9038]

WHATWG "HTML - Living Standard"
html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/>
.

,

, December 2021,

<https://

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
Klyne, G.
,
3339 DOI 10.17487/RFC3339

 and

C. Newman "Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps" RFC

,

, July 2002,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3339>

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
,
,
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):
<https://

, January 2005,

,

,

 and

Phillips, A., Ed.
,
5646 DOI 10.17487/RFC5646
.
rfc5646>

M. Davis, Ed. "Tags for Identifying Languages" BCP 47 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2009,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" STD 69 RFC 5730 DOI
10.17487/RFC5730

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5730>

, August 2009,

,

,

,

,
,
Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names in Applications (IDNA): Protocol"
,
RFC 5891 DOI 10.17487/RFC5891
.
rfc5891>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2010,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

 and

Gould, J.
,
Namespaces" RFC 9038 DOI 10.17487/RFC9038
.
editor.org/info/rfc9038>

M. Casanova "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) Unhandled
,

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2021,

,

[W3C.REC-xml-20081126]

Bray, T. Paoli, J. Sperberg-McQueen, M. Maler, E.

,

,

,

, and

,
F. Yergeau

"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Fifth Edition)" World Wide Web
Consortium Recommendation REC-xml-20081126
.
www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-xml-20081126>

, November 2008,

<https://

,

8.2.  Informative References

[RFC3688]

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9167

EPP Registry Maintenance

December 2021

Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
,
,
,
January 2004,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>
.

,

[RFC7451]

,
Hollenbeck, S. "Extension Registry for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol" RFC
,
7451 DOI 10.17487/RFC7451
rfc7451>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2015,

,

Acknowledgments

The authors wish to thank the following persons for their feedback and suggestions:
Michael Bauland Patrick Mevzek Quoc-Anh Pham Raymond Zylstra Christopher Martens
,
Anthony Eden Neal McPherson Craig Marchant

,
Andreas Huber
.

,
, and

,

,

,

,

James Gould
,

Authors' Addresses

Tobias Sattler
Email:
URI:

 mail@tobiassattler.com

 https://tobiassattler.com

Roger Carney
GoDaddy Inc.
2155 E GoDaddy Way
Tempe AZ 85284
,
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 rcarney@godaddy.com
 https://www.godaddy.com

Jody Kolker
GoDaddy Inc.
2155 E GoDaddy Way
Tempe AZ 85284
,
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 jkolker@godaddy.com
 https://www.godaddy.com

Sattler, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

