Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9509
Standards Track
March 2024
2070-1721
T. Reddy.K
Nokia

D. Migault
Ericsson

J. Ekman
Nokia

RFC 9509
X.509 Certificate Extended Key Usage (EKU) for 5G
Network Functions

Abstract

RFC 5280 specifies several extended key purpose identifiers (KeyPurposeIds) for X.509
certificates. This document defines encrypting JSON objects in HTTP messages, using JSON Web
Tokens (JWTs), and signing the OAuth 2.0 access tokens KeyPurposeIds for inclusion in the
Extended Key Usage (EKU) extension of X.509 v3 public key certificates used by Network
Functions (NFs) for the 5G System.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9509
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9509

EKUs for 5G Network Functions

March 2024

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Extended Key Purpose for Network Functions

4.  Including the Extended Key Purpose in Certificates

5.  Implications for a Certification Authority

6.  Security Considerations

7.  Privacy Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Acknowledgments

Contributor

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

4

4

4

5

5

6

6

6

6

7

8

8

9

9

The operators of 5G ("fifth generation") systems as defined by 3GPP make use of an internal PKI
to generate X.509 PKI certificates for the Network Functions (NFs) (Section 6 of
) in a
5G System. The certificates are used for the following purposes:

[TS23.501]

•

Client and Server certificates for NFs in 5G Core (5GC) Service Based Architecture (SBA) (see
Section 6.1.3c of

 and Section 6.7.2 of

[TS29.500]

[TS33.310]

)

•

Client Credentials Assertion (CCA) uses JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)
with digital signatures based on the JSON Web Signature (JWS)
, and Section 6.7.5 of
13.3.8.2 of

[TS33.501]

[TS29.500]

).

[RFC7519]

 and is secured

[RFC7515]

 (see Section

•

Certificates for encrypting JSON objects in HTTP messages between Security Edge Protection
Proxies (SEPPs) using JSON Web Encryption (JWE)

 (see Section 13.2.4.4 of

[RFC7516]

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9509

EKUs for 5G Network Functions

March 2024

[TS33.501]
[TS29.573]

, Section 6.3.2 of
).

[TS33.210]

, Section 6.7.4 of

[TS29.500]

, and Section 5.3.2.1 of

•

Certificates for signing the OAuth 2.0 access tokens for service authorization to grant
temporary access to resources provided by NF producers using JWS (see Section 13.4.1 of
[TS33.501]

 and Section 6.7.3 of

[TS29.500]

).

 specifies several key usage extensions, defined via KeyPurposeIds, for X.509

[RFC5280]
certificates. Key usage extensions added to a certificate are meant to express intent as to the
purpose of the named usage, for humans and for complying libraries. In addition, the IANA
registry "SMI Security for PKIX Extended Key Purpose"
KeyPurposeIds. The use of the anyExtendedKeyUsage KeyPurposeId, as defined in
4.2.1.12 of [RFC5280]
, is generally considered a poor practice. This is especially true for publicly
trusted certificates, whether they are multi-purpose or single-purpose, within the context of 5G
Systems and the 5GC Service Based Architecture.

 contains additional

[RFC7299]

Section

If the purpose of the issued certificates is not restricted, i.e., the type of operations for which a
public key contained in the certificate can be used are not specified, those certificates could be
used for another purpose than intended, increasing the risk of cross-protocol attacks. Failure to
ensure proper segregation of duties means that a NF that generates the public/private keys and
applies for a certificate to the operator certification authority could obtain a certificate that can
be misused for tasks that this NF is not entitled to perform. For example, a NF service consumer
could potentially impersonate NF service producers using its certificate. Additionally, in cases
where the certificate's purpose is intended for use by the NF service consumer as a client
certificate, it's essential to ensure that the NF with this client certificate and the corresponding
private key are not allowed to sign the Client Credentials Assertion (CCA). When a NF service
producer receives the signed CCA from the NF service consumer, the NF should only accept the
token if the CCA is signed with a certificate that has been explicitly issued for this purpose.

Section 4.2.1.12 of [RFC5280]

The KeyPurposeId id-kp-serverAuth (
) can be used to identify that
the certificate is for a server (e.g., NF service producer), and the KeyPurposeId id-kp-clientAuth
Section 4.2.1.12 of [RFC5280]
) can be used to identify that the certificate is for a client (e.g., NF
(
service consumer). However, there are currently no KeyPurposeIds for the other usages of
certificates in a 5G System. This document addresses the above problem by defining the EKU
extension of X.509 public key certificates for signing the JWT Claims Set using JWS, encrypting
JSON objects in HTTP messages using JWE, and signing the OAuth 2.0 access tokens using JWS.

Vendor-defined KeyPurposeIds used within a PKI governed by the vendor or a group of vendors
typically do not pose interoperability concerns, as non-critical extensions can be safely ignored if
unrecognized. However, using or misusing KeyPurposeIds outside of their intended vendor-
controlled environment can lead to interoperability issues. Therefore, it is advisable not to rely
on vendor-defined KeyPurposeIds. Instead, the specification defines standard KeyPurposeIds to
ensure interoperability across various implementations.

Although the specification focuses on a 5G use case, the standard KeyPurposeIds defined in this
document can be used in other deployments.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9509

EKUs for 5G Network Functions

March 2024

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Extended Key Purpose for Network Functions

This specification defines the KeyPurposeIds id-kp-jwt, id-kp-httpContentEncrypt, and id-kp-
oauthAccessTokenSigning and uses these, respectively, for: signing the JWT Claims Set of CCA
using JWS, encrypting JSON objects in HTTP messages between Security Edge Protection Proxies
(SEPPs) using JWE, and signing the OAuth 2.0 access tokens for service authorization to grant
temporary access to resources provided by NF producers using JWS. As described in
"[i]f the [Extended Key Usage] extension is present, then the certificate
of the purposes indicated."
the application need not recognize all purposes indicated, as long as the intended purpose is
present."

 also notes that "[i]f multiple [key] purposes are indicated

[RFC5280]
,

[RFC5280]

MUST

 only be used for one

Network Functions that verify the signature of a CCA represented as a JWT, decrypt JSON objects
in HTTP messages between Security Edge Protection Proxies (SEPPs) using JWE, or verify the
signature of an OAuth 2.0 access tokens for service authorization to grant temporary access to
resources provided by NF producers using JWS
KeyPurposeIds be specified by the EKU extension. If the certificate requester knows the
certificate users are mandated to use these KeyPurposeIds, it
Additionally, such a certificate requester
digitalSignature or nonRepudiation (also designated as contentCommitment) for signature
calculation and/or to keyEncipherment for secret key encryption.

 enforce their inclusion.
 ensure that the KeyUsage extension be set to

 require that corresponding

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

4.  Including the Extended Key Purpose in Certificates

[RFC5280]
 specifies the EKU X.509 certificate extension for use on end entity certificates. The
extension indicates one or more purposes for which the certified public key is valid. The EKU
extension can be used in conjunction with the key usage extension, which indicates the set of
basic cryptographic operations for which the certified key may be used. The EKU extension
syntax is repeated here for convenience:

ExtKeyUsageSyntax ::= SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF KeyPurposeId

KeyPurposeId ::= OBJECT IDENTIFIER

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9509

EKUs for 5G Network Functions

March 2024

[RFC5280]

As described in
critical or non-critical. The inclusion of KeyPurposeIds id-kp-jwt, id-kp-httpContentEncrypt, and
id-kp-oauthAccessTokenSigning in a certificate indicates that the public key encoded in the
certificate has been certified for use in the following:

, the EKU extension may, at the option of the certificate issuer, be either

1.

Validating the JWS Signature in JWT. The distinction between JWS and JWE is determined by
the Key Usage (KU) that is set to digitalSignature or nonRepudiation for JWS and
keyEncipherment for JWE.

2.

Encrypting JSON objects in HTTP messages (for example, encrypting the content-encryption
key (CEK) with the recipient's public key using the RSAES-OAEP algorithm to produce the
JWE Encrypted Key). KU is set to keyEncipherment.

3.

Signing OAuth 2.0 access tokens. In this case, KU is set to digitalSignature or nonRepudiation.

     id-kp  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::= {
       iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
       security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) kp(3) }

id-kp-jwt OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-kp 37 }
id-kp-httpContentEncrypt OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-kp 38 }
id-kp-oauthAccessTokenSigning OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-kp 39 }

5.  Implications for a Certification Authority

The procedures and practices employed by a certification authority
values for the EKU extension as well as the KU extension are inserted in each certificate that is
issued. The inclusion of the id-kp-jwt, id-kp-httpContentEncrypt, and id-kp-
oauthAccessTokenSigning KeyPurposeIds does not preclude the inclusion of other
KeyPurposeIds.

 ensure that the correct

MUST

6.  Security Considerations

[RFC5280]

The Security Considerations of
 are applicable to this document. This extended key
purpose does not introduce new security risks but instead reduces existing security risks by
providing the means to identify if the certificate is generated to sign the JWT Claims Set, signing
the OAuth 2.0 access tokens using JWS, or encrypting the CEK in JWE for encrypting JSON objects
in HTTP messages.

To reduce the risk of specific cross-protocol attacks, the relying party or the relying party
software may additionally prohibit use of specific combinations of KeyPurposeIds. The
procedure for allowing or disallowing combinations of KeyPurposeIds using Excluded
KeyPurposeId and Permitted KeyPurposeId, as carried out by a relying party, is defined in
Section 4 of [RFC9336]
. Examples of Excluded KeyPurposeIds include the presence of the
anyExtendedKeyUsage KeyPurposeId or the complete absence of the EKU extension in a
certificate. Examples of Permitted KeyPurposeIds include the presence of id-kp-jwt, id-kp-
httpContentEncrypt, or id-kp-oauthAccessTokenSigning KeyPurposeIds.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9509

EKUs for 5G Network Functions

March 2024

7.  Privacy Considerations

, certificates are exchanged in the clear. In
In some security protocols, such as TLS 1.2
other security protocols, such as TLS 1.3
, the certificates are encrypted. The inclusion
of the EKU extension can help an observer determine the purpose of the certificate. In addition,
if the certificate is issued by a public certification authority, the inclusion of an EKU extension
can help an attacker to monitor the Certificate Transparency logs
purpose of the certificate.

 to identify the

[RFC9162]

[RFC8446]

[RFC5246]

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following OIDs in the "SMI Security for PKIX Extended Key Purpose"
registry (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3). These OIDs are defined in Section 4.

Decimal Description

id-kp-jwt

References

RFC 9509

id-kp-httpContentEncrypt

RFC 9509

id-kp-oauthAccessTokenSigning

RFC 9509

37

38

39

Table 1

IANA has registered the following ASN.1
Identifier" registry (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.0). This OID is defined in Appendix A.

[X.680]

 module OID in the "SMI Security for PKIX Module

Decimal Description

References

108

id-mod-nf-eku

RFC 9509

Table 2

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9509

EKUs for 5G Network Functions

March 2024

[RFC7515]

[RFC7516]

[RFC7519]

[RFC8174]

[X.680]

[X.690]

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC7515

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Signature (JWS)" RFC 7515
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>

, May 2015,

,

,

, and

,

Jones, M.
10.17487/RFC7516

 and

J. Hildebrand "JSON Web Encryption (JWE)" RFC 7516 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7516>

.

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
10.17487/RFC7519

, and

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information technology - Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):
Specification of basic notation" ITU-T Recommendation X.680
,
<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.680>

.

, February 2021,

,

ITU-T "Information technology - ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690
www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690>

, February 2021,

<https://

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC5246]

[RFC7299]

[RFC8446]

[RFC9162]

[RFC9336]

[TS23.501]

[TS29.500]

Dierks, T.
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
,
info/rfc5246>

E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
 and
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
,
.

, August 2008,

,

Housley, R. "Object Identifier Registry for the PKIX Working Group" RFC 7299
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC7299

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7299>

, July 2014,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

Laurie, B. Messeri, E.
,
RFC 9162 DOI 10.17487/RFC9162
,
info/rfc9162>

, and

.

R. Stradling "Certificate Transparency Version 2.0"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, December 2021,

,

,

, and

Ito, T. Okubo, T.
Usage (EKU) for Document Signing" RFC 9336 DOI 10.17487/RFC9336
2022,

S. Turner "X.509 Certificate General-Purpose Extended Key
, December

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9336>

,

,

.

3GPP "System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)" Release 18.4.0 3GPP TS
,
23.501
23.501/23501-i40.zip>

<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/23_series/

, December 2023,

,

,

.

,

3GPP "5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based Architecture; Stage 3"
Release 18.4.0 3GPP TS 29.500
, December 2023,
,
archive/29_series/29.500/29500-i40.zip>
.

,
<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9509

EKUs for 5G Network Functions

March 2024

[TS29.573]

[TS33.210]

[TS33.310]

[TS33.501]

,

3GPP "5G System; Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) Interconnection; Stage
3" Release 18.5.0 3GPP TS 29.573
,
Specs/archive/29_series/29.573/29573-i50.zip>

<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/

, December 2023,

,

.

,
,

3GPP "Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network layer security" Release
17.1.0 3GPP TS 33.210
<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/
, September 2022,
archive/33_series/33.210/33210-h10.zip>
.

,

,

3GPP "Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework (AF)"
Release 18.2.0 3GPP TS 33.310
,
archive/33_series/33.310/33310-i20.zip>

, December 2023,
.

<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/

,

,

3GPP "Security architecture and procedures for 5G system" Release 18.4.0
3GPP TS 33.501
<https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/archive/
33_series/33.501/33501-i40.zip>

, December 2023,
.

,

,

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

The following module adheres to ASN.1 specifications

[X.680]

 and

[X.690]
.

<CODE BEGINS>
NF-EKU
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
  security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
  id-mod-nf-eku (108) }

DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN

-- OID Arc

id-kp OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
    security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) kp(3) }

-- Extended Key Usage Values

id-kp-jwt OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-kp 37 }
id-kp-httpContentEncrypt OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-kp 38 }
id-kp-oauthAccessTokenSigning OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-kp 39 }

END

<CODE ENDS>

Acknowledgments

We would like to thank
useful feedback. Thanks to
and

Benson Muite

 for the intdir review.

Corey Bonnell Ilari Liusvaara Carl Wallace

,

,

Yoav Nir

 for the secdir review,

, and
Elwyn Davies

Russ Housley
 for their
 for the genart review,

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9509

EKUs for 5G Network Functions

March 2024

Thanks to

Paul Wouters Lars Eggert
,

, and

Éric Vyncke

 for the IESG review.

Contributor

The following individual has contributed to this document:

German Peinado
Nokia
Email:

 german.peinado@nokia.com

Authors' Addresses

Tirumaleswar Reddy.K
Nokia
India
Email:

 kondtir@gmail.com

Jani Ekman
Nokia
Finland
Email:

 jani.ekman@nokia.com

Daniel Migault
Ericsson
Canada
Email:

 daniel.migault@ericsson.com

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

