Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9604
Standards Track
August 2024
2070-1721
S. Sivabalan
Ciena Corporation

C. Filsfils
Cisco Systems, Inc.

C. Li, Ed.
Huawei Technologies

J. Tantsura
Nvidia

S. Previdi
Huawei Technologies

RFC 9604
Carrying Binding Label/SID in PCE-Based Networks

Abstract

In order to provide greater scalability, network confidentiality, and service independence,
Segment Routing (SR) utilizes a Binding Segment Identifier (BSID), as described in RFC 8402. It is
possible to associate a BSID to an RSVP-TE-signaled Traffic Engineering (TE) Label Switched Path
(LSP) or an SR TE path. The BSID can be used by an upstream node for steering traffic into the
appropriate TE path to enforce SR policies. This document specifies the concept of binding value,
which can be either an MPLS label or a Segment Identifier (SID). It further specifies an extension
to Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) for reporting the binding value by
a Path Computation Client (PCC) to the Path Computation Element (PCE) to support PCE-based TE
policies.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9604
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Motivation and Example

1.2.  Summary of the Extension

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Terminology

4.  Path Binding TLV

4.1.  SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure

5.  Operation

6.  Binding SID in SR-ERO

7.  Binding SID in SRv6-ERO

8.  PCE Allocation of Binding Label/SID

9.  Security Considerations

10. Manageability Considerations

10.1.  Control of Function and Policy

10.2.  Information and Data Models

10.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

10.4.  Verify Correct Operations

10.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

10.6.  Impact on Network Operations

11. IANA Considerations

11.1.  PCEP TLV Type Indicators

11.1.1.  TE-PATH-BINDING TLV

11.2.  LSP Object

11.3.  PCEP Error Type and Value

3

4

5

5

5

6

7

8

10

10

10

12

13

13

13

13

13

13

13

14

14

14

15

15

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

15

15

17

18

18

19

A Path Computation Element (PCE) can compute Traffic Engineering (TE) paths through a
network where those paths are subject to various constraints. Currently, TE paths are set up
using either the RSVP-TE signaling protocol or Segment Routing (SR). We refer to such paths as
"RSVP-TE paths" and "SR-TE paths", respectively, in this document.

[RFC8402]

, SR allows a head-end node to steer a packet flow along a given path via an SR

As per
Policy. As per
list of segments on a node for implementing a source routing policy with a specific intent for
traffic steering from that node.

, an SR Policy is a framework that enables the instantiation of an ordered

[RFC9256]

[RFC8402]

, a Binding SID (BSID) is bound to an SR Policy, instantiation of which

As described in
may involve a list of Segment Identifiers (SIDs). Any packets received with an active segment
equal to a BSID are steered onto the bound SR Policy. A BSID may be either a local (SR Local Block
(SRLB)) or a global (SR Global Block (SRGB)) SID. As per
be associated with any type of interface or tunnel to enable the use of a non-SR interface or
tunnel as a segment in a SID list. In this document, the term "binding label/SID" is used to
generalize the allocation of a binding value for both SR and non-SR paths.

Section 6.4 of [RFC9256]

, a BSID can also

 describes the PCEP for communication between a Path Computation Client (PCC) and a

[RFC5440]
[RFC4655] [RFC8231]
PCE or between a pair of PCEs as per
.
allow a PCC to delegate its Label Switched Paths (LSPs) to a stateful PCE. A stateful PCE can then
update the state of LSPs delegated to it.
dynamically instantiate an LSP on a PCC by sending the path and characteristics. This document
specifies an extension to PCEP to manage the binding of label/SID that can be applied to SR, RSVP-
TE, and other path setup types.

 specifies a mechanism allowing a PCE to

 specifies extensions to PCEP that

[RFC8281]

[RFC8664]
 provides a mechanism for a PCE (acting as a network controller) to instantiate SR-TE
paths (candidate paths) for an SR Policy onto a head-end node (acting as a PCC) using PCEP. For
more information on the SR Policy Architecture, see

[RFC9256]
.

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

1.1.  Motivation and Example

A binding label/SID has local significance to the ingress node of the corresponding TE path. When
a stateful PCE is deployed for setting up TE paths, a binding label/SID reported from the PCC to
the stateful PCE is useful for enforcing an end-to-end TE/SR policy. A sample Data Center (DC) and
IP/MPLS WAN use case is illustrated in Figure 1 with a multi-domain PCE. In the IP/MPLS WAN,
an SR-TE LSP is set up using the PCE. The list of SIDs of the SR-TE LSP is {A, B, C, D}. The gateway
Node-1 (which is the PCC) allocates a binding SID X and reports it to the PCE. In the MPLS DC
network, an end-to-end SR-TE LSP is established. In order for the access node to steer the traffic
towards Node-1 and over the SR-TE path in WAN, the PCE passes the SID stack {Y, X} where Y is
the node SID of the gateway Node-1 to the access node and X is the BSID. In the absence of the
BSID X, the PCE would need to pass the SID stack {Y, A, B, C, D} to the access node. This example
also illustrates the additional benefit of using the binding label/SID to reduce the number of SIDs
imposed by the access nodes with a limited forwarding capacity.

           SID stack
           {Y, X}              +--------------+
                               | Multi-domain |
    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _|     PCE      |
   |                           +--------------+
   |                              ^
   |                              | Binding
   |           .-----.            | SID (X)     .-----.
   |          (       )           |            (       )
   V       .--(         )--.      |        .--(         )--.
+------+  (                 )  +-------+  (                 )  +-------+
|Access|_(  MPLS DC Network  )_|Gateway|_(    IP/MPLS WAN    )_|Gateway|
| Node | (  ==============>  ) |Node-1 | ( ================> ) |Node-2 |
+------+  (    SR-TE path   )  +-------+  (    SR-TE path   )  +-------+
           '--(         )--'    Node       '--(         )--'
               (       )        SID of         (       )
                '-----'         Node-1          '-----'
                                is Y            SIDs for SR-TE LSP:
                                                {A, B, C, D}

Figure 1: A Sample Use Case of Binding SID

Using the extension defined in this document, a PCC could report to the stateful PCE the binding
label/SID it allocated via a Path Computation LSP State Report (PCRpt) message. It is also possible
for a stateful PCE to request a PCC to allocate a specific binding label/SID by sending a Path
Computation LSP Update Request (PCUpd) message. If the PCC can successfully allocate the
specified binding value, it reports the binding value to the PCE. Otherwise, the PCC sends an
error message to the PCE indicating the cause of the failure. A local policy or configuration at the
PCC

 dictate if the binding label/SID needs to be assigned.

SHOULD

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

1.2.  Summary of the Extension

To implement the needed changes to PCEP, this document introduces a new
allows a PCC to report the binding label/SID associated with a TE LSP or a PCE to request a PCC to
allocate any or a specific binding label/SID value. This TLV is intended for TE LSPs established
using RSVP-TE, SR-TE, or any other future method. In the case of SR-TE LSPs, the TLV can carry a
binding label (for SR-TE paths with the MPLS data plane) or a binding IPv6 SID (e.g., IPv6 address
for SR-TE paths with the IPv6 data plane). Throughout this document, the term "binding value"
means either an MPLS label or a SID.

OPTIONAL

 TLV that

As another way to use the extension specified in this document, to support the PCE-based central
controller
 operation where the PCE would take responsibility for managing some part
of the MPLS label space for each of the routers that it controls, the PCE could directly make the
binding label/SID allocation and inform the PCC. See Section 8 for details.

[RFC8283]

In addition to specifying a new TLV, this document specifies how and when a PCC and PCE can
use this TLV, how they can allocate a binding label/SID, and the associated error handling.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Terminology

The following terminologies are used in this document:

BSID:

Binding SID

binding label/SID:

a generic term used for the binding segment for both SR and non-SR paths

binding value:

a generic term used for the binding segment as it can be encoded in various

formats (as per the Binding Type (BT))

LSP:

Label Switched Path

PCC:

Path Computation Client

PCEP:

Path Computation Element Communication Protocol

RSVP-TE:

Resource Reservation Protocol - Traffic Engineering

SID:

Segment Identifier

SR:

Segment Routing

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

4.  Path Binding TLV

The new optional TLV called "TE-PATH-BINDING TLV" (the format is shown in Figure 2) is defined
to carry the binding label/SID for a TE path. This TLV is associated with the LSP object specified
in
 in case of error.
Multiple instances of TE-PATH-BINDING TLVs
The type of this TLV is 55. The length is variable.

[RFC5440]
 be present in the LSP and PCEP-ERROR object.

. This TLV can also be carried in the PCEP-ERROR object

[RFC8231]

MAY

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|           Type = 55           |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      BT       |    Flags      |            Reserved           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~            Binding Value (variable length)                    ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: TE-PATH-BINDING TLV

The TE-PATH-BINDING TLV is a generic TLV such that it is able to carry binding label/SID (i.e.,
MPLS label or SRv6 SID). It is formatted according to the rules specified in
portion of the TLV comprises:

[RFC5440]

. The value

•

Binding Type (BT): A one-octet field that identifies the type of binding included in the TLV.
This document specifies the following BT values:

MUST

 be set to 7 (the padding is not included in the length, as per

), and the first 20 bits are used to encode the MPLS label value.

◦
BT = 0: The binding value is a 20-bit MPLS label value. The TLV is padded to 4-bytes
alignment. The Length
[RFC5440], Section 7.1
◦
BT = 1: The binding value is a 32-bit MPLS Label Stack Entry as per
Traffic Class (TC)
to override TC, S, and TTL values according to its local policy. The Length
◦
BT = 2: The binding value is an SRv6 SID with the format of a 16-octet IPv6 address,
representing the binding SID for SRv6. The Length
◦
BT = 3: The binding value is a 24-octet field, defined in Section 4.1, that contains the SRv6
SID as well as its Behavior and Structure. The Length

, S, and TTL values encoded. Note that the receiver
MUST

 be set to 20.

 be set to 28.

[RFC3032]

[RFC5462]

 with Label,

 choose
MAY
 be set to 8.

MUST

MUST

Section 11.1.1 defines the IANA registry used to maintain these binding types as well as any
future ones. Note that multiple TE-PATH-BINDING TLVs with the same or different binding
types
BINDING TLVs (of the same BT) and use different binding values in different domains or use
cases based on a local policy.

 be present for the same LSP. A PCEP speaker could allocate multiple TE-PATH-

MAY

•

Flags: 1 octet of flags. The following flag is defined in the new "TE-PATH-BINDING TLV Flag
field" registry as described in Section 11.1.1:

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|R|             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Flags

Where:

◦
R (Removal - 1 bit): When set, the requesting PCEP peer requires the removal of the
binding value for the LSP. When unset, the PCEP peer indicates that the binding value is
added or retained for the LSP. This flag is used in the PCRpt and PCUpd messages. It is
ignored in other PCEP messages.
◦
The unassigned flags

 be set to 0 while sending and ignored on receipt.

MUST

•

Reserved:

MUST

 be set to 0 while sending and ignored on receipt.

•

Binding Value: A variable-length field, padded with trailing zeros to a 4-octet boundary.
When the BT is 0, the 20 bits represent the MPLS label. When the BT is 1, the 32 bits
represent the MPLS label stack entry as per
represent the SRv6 SID. When the BT is 3, the binding value also contains the SRv6 Endpoint
Behavior and SID Structure, defined in Section 4.1. In this document, the TE-PATH-BINDING
TLV is considered to be empty if no binding value is present. Note that the length of the TLV
would be 4 in such a case.

. When the BT is 2, the 128 bits

[RFC3032]

4.1.  SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure

This section specifies the format of the binding value in the TE-PATH-BINDING TLV when the BT
is set to 3 for the SRv6 Binding SIDs

. The format is shown in Figure 4.

[RFC8986]

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
|                 SRv6 Binding SID (16 octets)                  |
|                                                               |
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|         Reserved              |      Endpoint Behavior        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    LB Length  |    LN Length  | Fun. Length   |  Arg. Length  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure

The Binding Value consists of:

•

SRv6 Binding SID: 16 octets. The 128-bit IPv6 address, representing the binding SID for SRv6.

•

Reserved: 2 octets. It

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmit and ignored on receipt.

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

•

Endpoint Behavior: 2 octets. The Endpoint Behavior code point for this SRv6 SID as defined
by the "SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors" registry
. When the field is set with the value 0,
the Endpoint Behavior is considered unknown.

[RFC8986]

• [RFC8986]

 defines an SRv6 SID as consisting of LOC:FUNCT:ARG, where a locator (LOC) is

encoded in the L most significant bits of the SID, followed by F bits of function (FUNCT) and A
bits of arguments (ARG). A locator may be represented as B:N, where B is the SRv6 SID
locator block (IPv6 prefix allocated for SRv6 SIDs by the operator) and N is the identifier of
the parent node instantiating the SID, called "locator node". The following fields are used to
advertise the length of each individual part of the SRv6 SID:

LB Length: 1 octet. SRv6 SID Locator Block length in bits.
◦
◦
LN Length: 1 octet. SRv6 SID Locator Node length in bits.
Function Length: 1 octet. SRv6 SID Function length in bits.
◦
◦
Arguments Length: 1 octet. SRv6 SID Arguments length in bits.

The total of the locator block, locator node, function, and arguments lengths
equal to 128 bits. If this condition is not met, the corresponding TE-PATH-BINDING TLV is
considered invalid. Also, if the Endpoint Behavior is found to be unknown or inconsistent, it is
considered invalid. A PCErr message with Error-Type = 10 ("Reception of an invalid object") and
Error-value = 37 ("Invalid SRv6 SID Structure")

 be sent in such cases.

 be less than or

MUST

MUST

The SRv6 SID Structure could be used by the PCE for ease of operations and monitoring. For
example, this information could be used for validation of SRv6 SIDs being instantiated in the
network and checked for conformance to the SRv6 SID allocation scheme chosen by the operator
as described in
. In the future, PCE could also be used for verification and
for automatically securing the SRv6 domain by provisioning filtering rules at SR domain
boundaries as described in
outside the scope of this document.

. The details of these potential applications are

Section 3.2 of [RFC8986]

Section 5 of [RFC8754]

5.  Operation

The binding value is usually allocated by the PCC and reported to a PCE via a PCRpt message (see
Section 8 where PCE performs the allocation). If a PCE does not recognize the TE-PATH-BINDING
. If a PCE recognizes the TLV but does
TLV, it would ignore the TLV in accordance with
not support the TLV, it

 send a PCErr with Error-Type = 2 ("Capability not supported").

[RFC5440]

MUST

Multiple TE-PATH-BINDING TLVs are allowed to be present in the same LSP object. This signifies
the presence of multiple binding SIDs for the given LSP. In the case of multiple TE-PATH-BINDING
TLVs, the existing instances of TE-PATH-BINDING TLVs
 be included in the LSP object. In case
of an error condition, the whole message is rejected, and the resulting PCErr message
include the offending TE-PATH-BINDING TLV in the PCEP-ERROR object.

MAY

MAY

If a PCE recognizes an invalid binding value (e.g., label value from the reserved MPLS label
space), it
Error-value = 2 ("Bad label value") as specified in

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type = 10 ("Reception of an invalid object") and

[RFC8664]
.

MUST

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

RECOMMENDED

 to always explicitly specify the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and
For SRv6 BSIDs, it is
SID Structure in the TE-PATH-BINDING TLV by setting BT to 3. This can enable the sender to have
control of the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior and SID Structure. A sender
 choose to set the BT to 2,
in which case the receiving implementation chooses how to interpret the SRv6 Endpoint
Behavior and SID Structure according to local policy.

MAY

If a PCC wishes to withdraw a previously reported binding value, it
with the specific TE-PATH-BINDING TLV with R flag set to 1. If a PCC wishes to modify a
 withdraw the former binding value (with R flag set in the
previously reported binding, it
former TE-PATH-BINDING TLV) and include a new TE-PATH-BINDING TLV containing the new
binding value. Note that other instances of TE-PATH-BINDING TLVs that are unchanged
be included. If the unchanged instances are not included, they will remain associated with the
LSP.

 send a PCRpt message

MUST

MUST

MAY

 also

If a PCE requires a PCC to allocate one (or several) specific binding value(s), it may do so by
sending a PCUpd or PCInitiate message containing one or more TE-PATH-BINDING TLVs. If the
values can be successfully allocated, the PCC reports the binding values to the PCE. If the PCC
considers the binding value specified by the PCE invalid, it
 send a PCErr message with
Error-Type = 32 ("Binding label/SID failure") and Error-value = 1 ("Invalid SID"). If the binding
value is valid but the PCC is unable to allocate the binding value, it
with Error-Type = 32 ("Binding label/SID failure") and Error-value = 2 ("Unable to allocate the
specified binding value"). Note that, in case of an error, the PCC rejects the PCUpd or PCInitiate
message in its entirety and can include the offending TE-PATH-BINDING TLV in the PCEP-ERROR
object.

 send a PCErr message

MUST

MUST

If a PCE wishes to request the withdrawal of a previously reported binding value, it
PCUpd message with the specific TE-PATH-BINDING TLV with R flag set to 1. If a PCE wishes to
modify a previously requested binding value, it
binding value (with R flag set in the former TE-PATH-BINDING TLV) and include a new TE-PATH-
BINDING TLV containing the new binding value. If a PCC receives a PCUpd message with TE-
PATH-BINDING TLV where the R flag is set to 1, but either the binding value is missing (empty TE-
PATH-BINDING TLV) or the binding value is incorrect, it
Type = 32 ("Binding label/SID failure") and Error-value = 4 ("Unable to remove the binding
value").

 request the withdrawal of the former

 send a PCErr message with Error-

 send a

MUST

MUST

MUST

In some cases, a stateful PCE may want to request that the PCC allocate a binding value of the
PCC's own choosing. It instructs the PCC by sending a PCUpd message containing an empty TE-
PATH-BINDING TLV, i.e., no binding value is specified (bringing the Length field of the TLV to 4).
A PCE can also request that a PCC allocate a binding value at the time of initiation by sending a
PCInitiate message with an empty TE-PATH-BINDING TLV. Only one such instance of empty TE-
 be included in the LSP object; others should be ignored on
PATH-BINDING TLV, per BT,
receipt. If the PCC is unable to allocate a new binding value as per the specified BT, it
 send
a PCErr message with Error-Type = 32 ("Binding label/SID failure") and Error-value = 3 ("Unable
to allocate a new binding label/SID").

SHOULD

MUST

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

As previously noted, if a message contains an invalid TE-PATH-BINDING TLV that leads to an
error condition, the whole message is rejected including any other valid instances of TE-PATH-
BINDING TLVs, if any. The resulting error message
TLV in the PCEP-ERROR object.

 include the offending TE-PATH-BINDING

MAY

If a PCC receives a TE-PATH-BINDING TLV in any message other than PCUpd or PCInitiate, it
 close the corresponding PCEP session with the reason "Reception of a malformed PCEP
MUST
message" (according to
). Similarly, if a PCE receives a TE-PATH-BINDING TLV in any
message other than a PCRpt or if the TE-PATH-BINDING TLV is associated with any object other
than an LSP or PCEP-ERROR object, the PCE
MUST
reason "Reception of a malformed PCEP message" (according to

 close the corresponding PCEP session with the

[RFC5440]

[RFC5440]

).

If a TE-PATH-BINDING TLV is absent in the PCRpt message and no binding values were
previously reported, the PCE
binding. Similarly, if TE-PATH-BINDING TLV is absent in the PCUpd message and no binding
values were previously reported, the PCC's local policy dictates how the binding allocations are
made for a given LSP.

 assume that the corresponding LSP does not have any

MUST

Note that some binding types have similar information but different binding value formats. For
example, BT=(2 or 3) is used for the SRv6 SID, and BT=(0 or 1) is used for the MPLS Label. In case
a PCEP speaker receives multiple TE-PATH-BINDING TLVs with the same SRv6 SID or MPLS Label
but different BT values, it
MUST
failure") and Error-value = 5 ("Inconsistent binding types").

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type = 32 ("Binding label/SID

6.  Binding SID in SR-ERO

In PCEP messages, LSP route information is carried in the Explicit Route Object (ERO), which
consists of a sequence of subobjects.
carrying a SID as well as the identity of the Node or Adjacency Identifier (NAI) represented by the
SID. The NAI Type (NT) field indicates the type and format of the NAI contained in the SR-ERO. In
 be included and NT
case of binding SID, the NAI
[RFC8664]

 specifies bit settings and error handling in the case when NT=0.

 defines the "SR-ERO subobject" capable of

Section 5.2.1 of

 be set to zero.

[RFC8664]

MUST NOT

MUST

7.  Binding SID in SRv6-ERO

[RFC9603]
NAI
settings and error handling in the case when NT=0.

 defines the "SRv6-ERO subobject" for an SRv6 SID. Similarly to SR-ERO (Section 6), the
 be set to zero.

Section 5.2.1 of [RFC8664]

 be included and the NT

MUST NOT

 specifies bit

MUST

8.  PCE Allocation of Binding Label/SID

Section 5 already includes the scenario where a PCE requires a PCC to allocate a specified
binding value by sending a PCUpd or PCInitiate message containing a TE-PATH-BINDING TLV.
This section specifies an
accord in the case where the PCE also controls the label space of the PCC and can make the label

 feature for the PCE to allocate the binding label/SID of its own

OPTIONAL

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

allocation on its own as described in
value (Section 5) is different from the act of allocating a binding label/SID as described in this
section.

. Note that the act of requesting a specific binding

[RFC8283]

 introduces the architecture for PCE as a central controller as an extension of the

[RFC8283]
architecture described in
between PCE and PCC.
as the central controller. It assumes that the exclusive label range to be used by a PCE is known
and set on both PCEP peers. A future extension could add the capability to advertise this range
via a possible PCEP extension as well (see

 and assumes the continued use of PCEP as the protocol used
 specifies the procedures and PCEP extensions for using the PCE

[PCE-ID-SPACE]

[RFC4655]

[RFC9050]

).

When PCE as a Central Controller (PCECC) operations are supported as per
binding label/SID
capability as described in

 also be allocated by the PCE itself. Both peers need to exchange the PCECC
 before the PCE can allocate the binding label/SID on its own.

[RFC9050]

[RFC9050]

, the

MAY

A new P flag in the LSP object
made by the PCE. Note that the P flag could be used for other types of allocations (such as path
segments

 is introduced to indicate that the allocation needs to be

) in the future.

[RFC8231]

[PCEP-SR]

P (PCE-allocation): If the bit is set to 1, it indicates that the PCC requests that the PCE make
allocations for this LSP. The TE-PATH-BINDING TLV in the LSP object identifies that the
allocation is for a binding label/SID. A PCC
 set this bit to 1 and include a TE-PATH-
MUST
BINDING TLV in the LSP object if it wishes to request an allocation for a binding label/SID by
the PCE in the PCEP message. A PCE
BINDING TLV to indicate that the binding label/SID is allocated by PCE and encoded in the
PCEP message towards the PCC. Further, if the binding label/SID is allocated by the PCC, the
PCE

 set this bit to 0 and follow the procedure described in Section 5.

 also set this bit to 1 and include a TE-PATH-

MUST

MUST

Note that:

•

A PCE could allocate the binding label/SID of its own accord for a PCE-initiated or PCE-
delegated LSP and inform the PCC in the PCInitiate message or PCUpd message by setting P=1
and including TE-PATH-BINDING TLV in the LSP object.

•

To let the PCC allocate the binding label/SID, a PCE
PATH-BINDING TLV (i.e., no binding value is specified) in the LSP object in the PCInitiate/
PCUpd message.

 set P=0 and include an empty TE-

MUST

•

To request that the PCE allocate the binding label/SID, a PCC
an empty TE-PATH-BINDING TLV in the PCRpt message. The PCE will attempt to allocate it
and respond to the PCC with a PCUpd message that includes the allocated binding label/SID
in the TE-PATH-BINDING TLV and P=1 and D=1 in the LSP object. If the PCE is unable to
allocate the binding label/SID, it
label/SID failure") and Error-value = 3 ("Unable to allocate a new binding label/SID").

 send a PCErr message with Error-Type = 32 ("Binding

 set P=1, D=1, and include

MUST

MUST

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

•

If one or both speakers (PCE and PCC) have not indicated support and willingness to use the
PCEP extensions for the PCECC as per
object, they

 and a PCEP peer receives P=1 in the LSP

[RFC9050]

:
MUST

◦
send a PCErr message with Error-Type = 19 ("Invalid Operation") and Error-value = 16
("Attempted PCECC operations when PCECC capability was not advertised") and
◦
terminate the PCEP session.

•

A legacy PCEP speaker that does not recognize the P flag in the LSP object would ignore it in
accordance with

[RFC8231]

.

It is assumed that the label range to be used by a PCE is known and set on both PCEP peers. The
 and this document. Note that the specific BSID
exact mechanism is out of the scope of
could be from the PCE-controlled or the PCC-controlled label space. The PCE can directly allocate
the label from the PCE-controlled label space using P=1 as described above, whereas the PCE can
request the allocation of a specific BSID from the PCC-controlled label space with P=0 as
described in Section 5.

[RFC9050]

SHOULD NOT

 be set to 1 without the presence of TE-PATH-

Note that the P flag in the LSP object
BINDING TLV or any other future TLV defined for PCE allocation. On receipt of such an LSP
object, the P flag is ignored. The presence of TE-PATH-BINDING TLV with P=1 indicates the
allocation is for the binding label/SID. In the future, some other TLV (such as one defined in
[PCEP-SR]
) could also be used alongside P=1 to indicate allocation of a different attribute. A
future document should not attempt to assign semantics to P=1 without limiting the scope to one
that both PCEP peers can agree on.

9.  Security Considerations

The security considerations described in
[RFC9050]

, and
 are applicable to this specification. No additional security measure is required.

[RFC5440] [RFC8231] [RFC8281] [RFC8664]
,

,

,

 and

[RFC8664]

[RFC8402]

, SR intrinsically involves an entity (whether head-end
As described in
or a central network controller) controlling and instantiating paths in the network without the
involvement of (other) nodes along those paths. Binding SIDs are in effect shorthand aliases for
longer path representations, and the alias expansion is in principle known only by the node that
acts on it. In this document, the expansion of the alias is shared between PCC and PCE, and rogue
actions by either PCC or PCE could result in shifting or misdirecting traffic in ways that are hard
for other nodes to detect. In particular, when a PCE propagates paths of the form {A, B, BSID} to
other entities, the BSID values are opaque, and a rogue PCE can substitute a BSID from a different
LSP in such paths to move traffic without the recipient of the path knowing the ultimate
destination.

The case of BT=3 provides additional opportunities for malfeasance, as it purports to convey
information about internal SRv6 SID Structure. There is no mechanism defined to validate this
internal structure information, and mischaracterizing the division of bits into locator block,

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

locator node, function, and argument can result in different interpretation of the bits by PCC and
PCE. Most notably, shifting bits into or out of the "argument" is a direct vector for affecting
processing, but other attacks are also possible.

, it is

[RFC8231]

Thus, as per
authenticated and encrypted sessions across PCEs and PCCs belonging to the same administrative
authority, using Transport Layer Security (TLS)
, as per the recommendations and best
current practices in RFC 9325

 that these PCEP extensions only be activated on

 (unless explicitly set aside in

RECOMMENDED

[RFC8253]

[RFC8253]

[BCP195]

).

10.  Manageability Considerations

All manageability requirements and considerations listed in
[RFC8664]
and considerations listed in this section apply.

 apply to PCEP protocol extensions defined in this document. In addition, requirements

[RFC5440] [RFC8231]
,

, and

10.1.  Control of Function and Policy

A PCC implementation
when allocating the binding label/SID.

SHOULD

 allow the operator to configure the policy the PCC needs to apply

If BT is set to 2, the operator needs to have local policy set to decide the SID structure and the
SRv6 Endpoint Behavior of the BSID.

10.2.  Information and Data Models

The PCEP YANG module
binding label/SID allocation.

[PCEP-YANG]

 will be extended to include policy configuration for

10.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

The mechanisms defined in this document do not imply any new liveness detection and
monitoring requirements in addition to those already listed in

[RFC5440]
.

10.4.  Verify Correct Operations

The mechanisms defined in this document do not imply any new operation verification
[RFC8664]
.
requirements in addition to those already listed in

[RFC5440] [RFC8231]
,

, and

10.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

The mechanisms defined in this document do not imply any new requirements on other
protocols.

10.6.  Impact on Network Operations

The mechanisms defined in
extensions defined in this document.

[RFC5440] [RFC8231]
,

, and

[RFC8664]

 also apply to the PCEP

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

11.  IANA Considerations

IANA has allocated code points for the protocol elements described in this document in the "Path
Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry group.

11.1.  PCEP TLV Type Indicators

This document defines a new PCEP TLV. IANA has allocated the following in the "PCEP TLV Type
Indicators" registry within the PCEP Numbers registry group:

Value Description

Reference

55

TE-PATH-BINDING

RFC 9604

Table 1

11.1.1.  TE-PATH-BINDING TLV

IANA has created the "TE-PATH-BINDING TLV BT Field" registry to manage the values of the
binding type field in the TE-PATH-BINDING TLV. Initial values are shown below. New values are
assigned by Standards Action

[RFC8126]
.

Value Description

MPLS Label

MPLS Label Stack Entry

SRv6 SID

0

1

2

3

Reference

RFC 9604

RFC 9604

RFC 9604

SRv6 SID with Behavior and Structure

RFC 9604

4-255

Unassigned

Table 2

IANA has created a new "TE-PATH-BINDING TLV Flag Field" registry to manage the Flag field in
the TE-PATH-BINDING TLV. New values are to be assigned by Standards Action
. Each
bit should be tracked with the following qualities:

[RFC8126]

•

Bit number (count from 0 as the most significant bit)

•

Description

•

Reference

Bit

Description

Reference

0

R (Removal)

RFC 9604

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

Bit

Description

Reference

1-7

Unassigned

Table 3

11.2.  LSP Object

IANA has allocated a code point in the "LSP Object Flag Field" registry for the new P flag as
follows:

Bit

Description

Reference

0

PCE-allocation

RFC 9604

Table 4

11.3.  PCEP Error Type and Value

This document defines a new Error-Type and associated Error-values for the PCErr message.
IANA has allocated a new Error-Type and Error-values within the "PCEP-ERROR Object Error
Types and Values" registry of the PCEP Numbers registry group, as follows:

Error-Type Meaning

Error-value

32

Binding label/SID failure

0: Unassigned

1: Invalid SID

2: Unable to allocate the specified binding value

3: Unable to allocate a new binding label/SID

4: Unable to remove the binding value

5: Inconsistent binding types

Table 5

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[BCP195]

Best Current Practice 195,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp195>
.

Moriarty, K.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8996

 and

S. Farrell "Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1" BCP 195 RFC 8996
,

,

,

,

, March 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8996>

.

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Rosen, E. Tappan, D. Fedorkow, G. Rekhter, Y. Farinacci, D. Li, T.
"MPLS Label Stack Encoding" RFC 3032 DOI 10.17487/RFC3032
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3032>

.

,

,

,

,

,

, and

A. Conta
, January 2001,

,

 and

Vasseur, JP., Ed.
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)

,

,

.

, March 2009,

 and

Andersson, L.
Entry: "EXP" Field Renamed to "Traffic Class" Field" RFC 5462 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5462

R. Asati "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Stack

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5462>

, February 2009,

,

,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

R. Varga "Path Computation Element

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Wu, Q.
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to

, October 2017,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Sivabalan, S.
R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

, and

.

,

,

,

<https://

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

,

.

, and

R.
, July

[RFC2119]

[RFC3032]

[RFC5440]

[RFC5462]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8253]

[RFC8281]

[RFC8402]

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

[RFC8664]

[RFC8986]

[RFC9050]

[RFC9603]

,

,

Sivabalan, S. Filsfils, C. Tantsura, J. Henderickx, W.
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Segment
Routing" RFC 8664 DOI 10.17487/RFC8664
editor.org/info/rfc8664>

J. Hardwick "Path

, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Camarillo, P., Ed. Leddy, J. Voyer, D. Matsushima, S.
"Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) Network Programming" RFC 8986 DOI
10.17487/RFC8986

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8986>

, February 2021,

, and
,

Z. Li

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

,

Li, Z. Peng, S. Negi, M. Zhao, Q.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Procedures and Extensions for Using the PCE as
a Central Controller (PCECC) of LSPs" RFC 9050 DOI 10.17487/RFC9050
2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9050>

C. Zhou "Path Computation Element

, and

, July

,
.

,

,

,

,

Li, C., Ed. Kaladharan, P. Sivabalan, S. Koldychev, M.
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for IPv6
Segment Routing" RFC 9603 DOI 10.17487/RFC9603
editor.org/info/rfc9603>

Y. Zhu "Path
,

, July 2024,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://www.rfc-

12.2.  Informative References

[PCE-ID-SPACE]

[PCEP-SR]

[PCEP-YANG]

[RFC4655]

[RFC8283]

,

,

,

Li, C. Shi, H., Ed. Wang, A. Cheng, W.

C. Zhou "Path Computation
Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) extension to advertise the PCE
Controlled Identifier Space" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-
controlled-id-space-00
ietf-pce-controlled-id-space-00>

,
, 4 June 2024,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

Li, C. Chen, M. Cheng, W. Gandhi, R.
Q. Xiong "Path Computation Element
, and
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extension for Path Segment in Segment Routing
(SR)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-sr-path-segment-09
February 2024,
segment-09>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-sr-path-

, 26

,

,

,

.

,

,

Dhody, D., Ed. Beeram, V. Hardwick, J.
J. Tantsura "A YANG Data Model for
Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in Progress
,
,
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-25
, 21 May 2024,
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-25>

<https://
.

, and

,

,

Farrel, A. Vasseur, J.-P.
Architecture" RFC 4655 DOI 10.17487/RFC4655
,
editor.org/info/rfc4655>
.

, and

,

,

J. Ash "A Path Computation Element (PCE)-Based

, August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Farrel, A., Ed. Zhao, Q., Ed. Li, Z.
and the PCE Communication Protocol (PCEP) in a Network with Central Control"
,
RFC 8283 DOI 10.17487/RFC8283
info/rfc8283>

C. Zhou "An Architecture for Use of PCE

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, December 2017,

, and

,

,

,

.

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

[RFC8754]

[RFC9256]

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Dukes, D., Ed. Previdi, S. Leddy, J. Matsushima, S.
"IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)" RFC 8754 DOI 10.17487/RFC8754
2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8754>

, and

,
,

,

.

,

,

D. Voyer
,
, March

,

Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Voyer, D. Bogdanov, A.
Routing Policy Architecture" RFC 9256 DOI 10.17487/RFC9256
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9256>

, and

,
,

,
,

.

P. Mattes "Segment
,
, July 2022,

Acknowledgements

We would like to thank
Olivier Dugeon

, and

Adrian Farrel

 for their valuable comments.

Milos Fabian Mrinmoy Das Andrew Stone Tom Petch Aijun Wang

,

,

,

,

,

Thanks to

Julien Meuric

 for shepherding. Thanks to

John Scudder

 for the AD review.

Thanks to

Theresa Enghardt

 for the GENART review.

Thanks to
Erik Kline

Martin Vigoureux Benjamin Kaduk Éric Vyncke Lars Eggert Murray Kucherawy
 for the IESG reviews.

,

,

,

,

, and

Contributors

Jonathan Hardwick
Microsoft
United Kingdom
Email:

jonhardwick@microsoft.com

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei Technologies
Divyashree Techno Park, Whitefield
Bangalore 560066
Karnataka
India
Email:

dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

Mahendra Singh Negi
RtBrick India
N-17L, Floor-1, 18th Cross Rd, HSR Layout Sector-3
Bangalore 560102
Karnataka
India
Email:

mahend.ietf@gmail.com

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9604

Binding Label/SID

August 2024

Mike Koldychev
Cisco Systems, Inc.
2000 Innovation Drive
Kanata Ontario K2K 3E8
Canada
Email:

mkoldych@cisco.com

Zafar Ali
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

zali@cisco.com

Authors' Addresses

Siva Sivabalan
Ciena Corporation
Email:

msiva282@gmail.com

Clarence Filsfils
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Pegasus Parc
De Kleetlaan 6a
1831 Brabant
Belgium
Email:

cfilsfil@cisco.com

Jeff Tantsura
Nvidia
Email:

jefftant.ietf@gmail.com

Stefano Previdi
Huawei Technologies
Email:

stefano@previdi.net

editor
)

Cheng Li (
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Campus, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

c.l@huawei.com

Sivabalan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

