Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9261
Standards Track
July 2022
2070-1721
N. Sullivan
Cloudﬂare Inc.

RFC 9261
Exported Authenticators in TLS

Abstract

This document describes a mechanism that builds on Transport Layer Security (TLS) or Datagram
Transport Layer Security (DTLS) and enables peers to provide proof of ownership of an identity,
such as an X.509 certiﬁcate. This proof can be exported by one peer, transmitted out of band to
the other peer, and veriﬁed by the receiving peer.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9261
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Terminology

3.  Message Sequences

4.  Authenticator Request

5.  Authenticator

5.1.  Authenticator Keys

5.2.  Authenticator Construction

5.2.1.  Certiﬁcate

5.2.2.  CertiﬁcateVerify

5.2.3.  Finished

5.2.4.  Authenticator Creation

6.  Empty Authenticator

7.  API Considerations

7.1.  The "request" API

7.2.  The "get context" API

7.3.  The "authenticate" API

7.4.  The "validate" API

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Update of the TLS ExtensionType Registry

8.2.  Update of the TLS Exporter Labels Registry

8.3.  Update of the TLS HandshakeType Registry

9.  Security Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

1.  Introduction

This document provides a way to authenticate one party of a Transport Layer Security (TLS) or
Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) connection to its peer using authentication messages
created after the session has been established. This allows both the client and server to prove
ownership of additional identities at any time after the handshake has completed. This proof of
authentication can be exported and transmitted out of band from one party to be validated by its
peer.

This mechanism provides two advantages over the authentication that TLS and DTLS natively
provide:

multiple identities:

Endpoints that are authoritative for multiple identities, but that do not have

a single certiﬁcate that includes all of the identities, can authenticate additional identities
over a single connection.

spontaneous authentication:

After a connection is established, endpoints can authenticate in
response to events in a higher-layer protocol; they can also integrate more context (such as
context from the application).

Versions of TLS prior to TLS 1.3 used renegotiation as a way to enable post-handshake client
authentication given an existing TLS connection. The mechanism described in this document
may be used to replace the post-handshake authentication functionality provided by
renegotiation. Unlike renegotiation, Exported Authenticator-based post-handshake
authentication does not require any changes at the TLS layer.

Post-handshake authentication is deﬁned in TLS 1.3
disadvantage of requiring additional state to be stored as part of the TLS state machine.
Furthermore, the authentication boundaries of TLS 1.3 post-handshake authentication align with
TLS record boundaries, which are often not aligned with the authentication boundaries of the
higher-layer protocol. For example, multiplexed connection protocols like HTTP/2
not have a notion of which TLS record a given message is a part of.

Section 4.6.2 of [RFC8446]

, but it has the

[RFC9113]

 do

Exported Authenticators are meant to be used as a building block for application protocols.
Mechanisms such as those required to advertise support and handle authentication errors are
not handled by TLS (or DTLS).

The minimum version of TLS and DTLS required to implement the mechanisms described in this
document are TLS 1.2
[RFC8446]

. (These were obsoleted by TLS 1.3

 and DTLS 1.2

 and DTLS 1.3

[RFC9147]

[RFC6347]

[RFC5246]

.)

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

2.  Conventions and Terminology

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

This document uses terminology such as client, server, connection, handshake, endpoint, and
peer that are deﬁned in
connection from which the Exported Authenticator messages are derived.

. The term "initial connection" refers to the (D)TLS

Section 1.1 of [RFC8446]

3.  Message Sequences

There are two types of messages deﬁned in this document: authenticator requests and
authenticators. These can be combined in the following three sequences:

Client Authentication

•

Server generates authenticator request

•

Client generates Authenticator from Server's authenticator request

•

Server validates Client's authenticator

Server Authentication

•

Client generates authenticator request

•

Server generates authenticator from Client's authenticator request

•

Client validates Server's authenticator

Spontaneous Server Authentication

•

Server generates authenticator

•

Client validates Server's authenticator

4.  Authenticator Request

The authenticator request is a structured message that can be created by either party of a (D)TLS
connection using data exported from that connection. It can be transmitted to the other party of
the (D)TLS connection at the application layer. The application-layer protocol used to send the
authenticator request
 use a secure transport channel with equivalent security to TLS,
such as QUIC
[RFC9001]
application

 use the existing (D)TLS connection to transport the authenticator.

, as its underlying transport to keep the request conﬁdential. The

SHOULD

MAY

An authenticator request message can be constructed by either the client or the server. Server-
generated authenticator requests use the CertiﬁcateRequest message from
[RFC8446]

. Client-generated authenticator requests use a new message, called the

Section 4.3.2 of

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

"ClientCertiﬁcateRequest", that uses the same structure as CertiﬁcateRequest. (Note that the latter
is not a request for a client certiﬁcate, but rather a certiﬁcate request generated by the client.)
These message structures are used even if the connection protocol is TLS 1.2 or DTLS 1.2.

The CertiﬁcateRequest and ClientCertiﬁcateRequest messages are used to deﬁne the parameters
in a request for an authenticator. These are encoded as TLS handshake messages, including
length and type ﬁelds. They do not include any TLS record-layer framing and are not encrypted
with a handshake or application-data key.

The structures are deﬁned to be:

   struct {
      opaque certificate_request_context<0..2^8-1>;
      Extension extensions<2..2^16-1>;
   } ClientCertificateRequest;

   struct {
      opaque certificate_request_context<0..2^8-1>;
      Extension extensions<2..2^16-1>;
   } CertificateRequest;

certiﬁcate_request_context:

An opaque string that identiﬁes the authenticator request and that

will be echoed in the authenticator message. A certiﬁcate_request_context value
unique for each authenticator request within the scope of a connection (preventing replay
and context confusion). The certiﬁcate_request_context
unpredictable to the peer (e.g., by randomly generating it) in order to prevent an attacker who
has temporary access to the peer's private key from precomputing valid authenticators. For
example, the application may choose this value to correspond to a value used in an existing
data structure in the software to simplify implementation.

 be chosen to be

SHOULD

MUST

 be

extensions:

The set of extensions allowed in the structures of CertiﬁcateRequest and
ClientCertiﬁcateRequest is comprised of those deﬁned in the "TLS ExtensionType Values" IANA
registry containing CR in the "TLS 1.3" column (see
). In addition, the
set of extensions in the ClientCertiﬁcateRequest structure
extension

 and
 include the server_name

[IANA-TLS]
MAY

[RFC8447]

[RFC6066]

.

The uniqueness requirements of the certiﬁcate_request_context apply across CertiﬁcateRequest
and ClientCertiﬁcateRequest messages that are used as part of authenticator requests. A
certiﬁcate_request_context value used in a ClientCertiﬁcateRequest cannot be used in an
authenticator CertiﬁcateRequest on the same connection, and vice versa. There is no impact if
the value of a certiﬁcate_request_context used in an authenticator request matches the value of a
certiﬁcate_request_context in the handshake or in a post-handshake message.

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

5.  Authenticator

The authenticator is a structured message that can be exported from either party of a (D)TLS
connection. It can be transmitted to the other party of the (D)TLS connection at the application
layer. The application-layer protocol used to send the authenticator
transport channel with equivalent security to TLS, such as QUIC
transport to keep the authenticator conﬁdential. The application
connection to transport the authenticator.

 use a secure
, as its underlying

 use the existing (D)TLS

[RFC9001]

SHOULD

MAY

An authenticator message can be constructed by either the client or the server given an
established (D)TLS connection; an identity, such as an X.509 certiﬁcate; and a corresponding
private key. Clients
for servers, an authenticator request is optional. For authenticators that do not correspond to
authenticator requests, the certiﬁcate_request_context is chosen by the server.

 send an authenticator without a preceding authenticator request;

MUST NOT

5.1.  Authenticator Keys

Each authenticator is computed using a Handshake Context and Finished MAC (Message
Authentication Code) Key derived from the (D)TLS connection. These values are derived using an
exporter as described in
(D)TLS 1.3). For (D)TLS 1.3, the exporter_master_secret
early_exporter_master_secret. These values use diﬀerent labels depending on the role of the
sender:

Section 7.5 of [RFC8446]

Section 4 of [RFC5705]

 (for (D)TLS 1.2) or

 be used, not the

MUST

 (for

•

The Handshake Context is an exporter value that is derived using the label "EXPORTER-client
authenticator handshake context" or "EXPORTER-server authenticator handshake context"
for authenticators sent by the client or server, respectively.

•

The Finished MAC Key is an exporter value derived using the label "EXPORTER-client
authenticator ﬁnished key" or "EXPORTER-server authenticator ﬁnished key" for
authenticators sent by the client or server, respectively.

The context_value used for the exporter is empty (zero length) for all four values. There is no need
to include additional context information at this stage because the application-supplied context
is included in the authenticator itself. The length of the exported value is equal to the length of the
output of the hash function associated with the selected ciphersuite (for TLS 1.3) or the hash
function used for the pseudorandom function (PRF) (for (D)TLS 1.2). Exported Authenticators
cannot be used with (D)TLS 1.2 ciphersuites that do not use the TLS PRF and with TLS 1.3
ciphersuites that do not have an associated hash function. This hash is referred to as the
"authenticator hash".

To avoid key synchronization attacks, Exported Authenticators
accepted on (D)TLS 1.2 connections that did not negotiate the extended master secret extension
[RFC7627]

 be generated or

MUST NOT

.

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

5.2.  Authenticator Construction

An authenticator is formed from the concatenation of TLS 1.3 Certiﬁcate, CertiﬁcateVerify, and
Finished messages
length and type ﬁelds. They do not include any TLS record-layer framing and are not encrypted
with a handshake or application-data key.

. These messages are encoded as TLS handshake messages, including

[RFC8446]

If the peer populating the certiﬁcate_request_context ﬁeld in an authenticator's Certiﬁcate
message has already created or correctly validated an authenticator with the same value, then
no authenticator should be constructed. If there is no authenticator request, the extensions are
chosen from those presented in the (D)TLS handshake's ClientHello. Only servers can provide an
authenticator without a corresponding request.

ClientHello extensions are used to determine permissible extensions in the server's unsolicited
Certiﬁcate message in order to follow the general model for extensions in (D)TLS in which
extensions can only be included as part of a Certiﬁcate message if they were previously sent as
part of a CertiﬁcateRequest message or ClientHello message. This ensures that the recipient will
be able to process such extensions.

5.2.1.  Certiﬁcate

The Certiﬁcate message contains the identity to be used for authentication, such as the end-entity
Section 4.4.2 of
certiﬁcate and any supporting certiﬁcates in the chain. This structure is deﬁned in
[RFC8446]

.

The Certiﬁcate message contains an opaque string called "certiﬁcate_request_context", which is
extracted from the authenticator request, if present. If no authenticator request is provided, the
certiﬁcate_request_context can be chosen arbitrarily; however, it
scope of the connection and be unpredictable to the peer.

 be unique within the

MUST

Certiﬁcates chosen in the Certiﬁcate message
message in the negotiated version of (D)TLS. In particular, the entries of certiﬁcate_list
valid for the signature algorithms indicated by the peer in the "signature_algorithms" and
"signature_algorithms_cert" extensions, as described in
in Sections 7.4.2 and 7.4.6 of

 conform to the requirements of a Certiﬁcate
 be

Section 4.2.3 of [RFC8446]

 for (D)TLS 1.2.

[RFC5246]

 for (D)TLS 1.3 or

MUST

MUST

In addition to "signature_algorithms" and "signature_algorithms_cert", the "server_name"
[RFC6066]
[RFC8446]

Section 4.2.4 of [RFC8446]
, "certiﬁcate_authorities" (
) extensions are used to guide certiﬁcate selection.

), and "oid_ﬁlters" (

Section 4.2.5 of

Only the X.509 certiﬁcate type deﬁned in
such as Raw Public Keys as described in
speciﬁcation and their use in this context has not yet been analyzed.

[RFC7250]

[RFC8446]

 is supported. Alternative certiﬁcate formats

 are not supported in this version of the

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

 contain only extensions
If an authenticator request was provided, the Certiﬁcate message
MUST
present in the authenticator request. Otherwise, the Certiﬁcate message
 contain only
MUST
extensions present in the (D)TLS ClientHello. Unrecognized extensions in the authenticator
request

 be ignored.

MUST

5.2.2.  CertiﬁcateVerify

This message is used to provide explicit proof that an endpoint possesses the private key
corresponding to its identity. The format of this message is taken from TLS 1.3:

   struct {
      SignatureScheme algorithm;
      opaque signature<0..2^16-1>;
   } CertificateVerify;

The algorithm ﬁeld speciﬁes the signature algorithm used (see
deﬁnition of this ﬁeld). The signature is a digital signature using that algorithm.

Section 4.2.3 of [RFC8446]

 for the

The signature scheme
PKCS1-v1_5 algorithms and combinations of Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)
and hash algorithms that are not supported in TLS 1.3.

 be a valid signature scheme for TLS 1.3. This excludes all RSASSA-

MUST

If an authenticator request is present, the signature algorithm
signature schemes present in the "signature_algorithms" extension of the authenticator request.
Otherwise, with spontaneous server authentication, the signature algorithm used
from the "signature_algorithms" sent by the peer in the ClientHello of the (D)TLS handshake. If
there are no available signature algorithms, then no authenticator should be constructed.

 be chosen from one of the

MUST

MUST

 be chosen

The signature is computed using the chosen signature scheme over the concatenation of:

•

a string that consists of octet 32 (0x20) repeated 64 times,

•

the context string "Exported Authenticator" (which is not NUL-terminated),

•

a single 0 octet that serves as the separator, and

•

the hashed authenticator transcript.

The authenticator transcript is the hash of the concatenated Handshake Context, authenticator
request (if present), and Certiﬁcate message:

Hash(Handshake Context || authenticator request || Certificate)

Where Hash is the authenticator hash deﬁned in Section 5.1. If the authenticator request is not
present, it is omitted from this construction, i.e., it is zero-length.

If the party that generates the authenticator does so with a diﬀerent connection than the party
that is validating it, then the Handshake Context will not match, resulting in a CertiﬁcateVerify
message that does not validate. This includes situations in which the application data is sent via

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

TLS-terminating proxy. Given a failed CertiﬁcateVerify validation, it may be helpful for the
application to conﬁrm that both peers share the same connection using a value derived from the
connection secrets (such as the Handshake Context) before taking a user-visible action.

5.2.3.  Finished

[HMAC]

An HMAC
Handshake Context, authenticator request (if present), Certiﬁcate, and CertiﬁcateVerify. The
HMAC is computed using the authenticator hash, using the Finished MAC Key as a key.

 over the hashed authenticator transcript is the concatenation of the

Finished = HMAC(Finished MAC Key, Hash(Handshake Context ||
     authenticator request || Certificate || CertificateVerify))

5.2.4.  Authenticator Creation

An endpoint constructs an authenticator by serializing the Certiﬁcate, CertiﬁcateVerify, and
Finished as TLS handshake messages and concatenating the octets:

Certificate || CertificateVerify || Finished

An authenticator is valid if the CertiﬁcateVerify message is correctly constructed given the
authenticator request (if used) and the Finished message matches the expected value. When
validating an authenticator, constant-time comparisons
validation.

SHOULD

 be used for signature and MAC

6.  Empty Authenticator

If, given an authenticator request, the endpoint does not have an appropriate identity or does not
want to return one, it constructs an authenticated refusal called an "empty authenticator". This is
a Finished message sent without a Certiﬁcate or CertiﬁcateVerify. This message is an HMAC over
the hashed authenticator transcript with a Certiﬁcate message containing no CertiﬁcateEntries
and the CertiﬁcateVerify message omitted. The HMAC is computed using the authenticator hash,
using the Finished MAC Key as a key. This message is encoded as a TLS handshake message,
including length and type ﬁeld. It does not include TLS record-layer framing and is not encrypted
with a handshake or application-data key.

Finished = HMAC(Finished MAC Key, Hash(Handshake Context ||
     authenticator request || Certificate))

7.  API Considerations

The creation and validation of both authenticator requests and authenticators
implemented inside the (D)TLS library even if it is possible to implement it at the application
layer. (D)TLS implementations supporting the use of Exported Authenticators
application programming interfaces by which clients and servers may request and verify
Exported Authenticator messages.

SHOULD

SHOULD

 be

 provide

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

Notwithstanding the success conditions described below, all APIs

MUST

 fail if:

•

the connection uses a (D)TLS version of 1.1 or earlier, or

•

the connection is (D)TLS 1.2 and the extended master secret extension
negotiated

[RFC7627]

 was not

The following sections describe APIs that are considered necessary to implement Exported
Authenticators. These are informative only.

7.1.  The "request" API

The "request" API takes as input:

•

certiﬁcate_request_context (from 0 to 255 octets)

•

the set of extensions to include (this
thereof

MUST

 include signature_algorithms) and the contents

It returns an authenticator request, which is a sequence of octets that comprises a
CertiﬁcateRequest or ClientCertiﬁcateRequest message.

7.2.  The "get context" API

The "get context" API takes as input:

•

authenticator or authenticator request

It returns the certiﬁcate_request_context.

7.3.  The "authenticate" API

The "authenticate" API takes as input:

•

a reference to the initial connection

•

an identity, such as a set of certiﬁcate chains and associated extensions (OCSP
[RFC6962]

 (obsoleted by

[RFC9162]

), etc.)

[RFC6960]

, SCT

•

a signer (either the private key associated with the identity or the interface to perform
private key operations) for each chain

•

an authenticator request or certiﬁcate_request_context (from 0 to 255 octets)

It returns either the authenticator or an empty authenticator as a sequence of octets. It is
 that the logic for selecting the certiﬁcates and extensions to include in the
RECOMMENDED
exporter be implemented in the TLS library. Implementing this in the TLS library lets the
implementer take advantage of existing extension and certiﬁcate selection logic, and the
implementer can more easily remember which extensions were sent in the ClientHello.

It is also possible to implement this API outside of the TLS library using TLS exporters. This may be
preferable in cases where the application does not have access to a TLS library with these APIs or
when TLS is handled independently of the application-layer protocol.

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

7.4.  The "validate" API

The "validate" API takes as input:

•

a reference to the initial connection

•

an optional authenticator request

•

an authenticator

•

a function for validating a certiﬁcate chain

It returns a status to indicate whether or not the authenticator is valid after applying the function
for validating the certiﬁcate chain to the chain contained in the authenticator. If validation is
successful, it also returns the identity, such as the certiﬁcate chain and its extensions.

The API should return a failure if the certiﬁcate_request_context of the authenticator was used in
a diﬀerent authenticator that was previously validated. Well-formed empty authenticators are
returned as invalid.

When validating an authenticator, constant-time comparison should be used.

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Update of the TLS ExtensionType Registry

IANA has updated the entry for server_name(0) in the "TLS ExtensionType Values" registry
TLS]
CR" and listing this document in the "Reference" column.

) by replacing the value in the "TLS 1.3" column with the value "CH, EE,

 (deﬁned in

[RFC8446]

[IANA-

IANA has also added the following note to the registry:

The addition of the "CR" to the "TLS 1.3" column for the server_name(0) extension only
marks the extension as valid in a ClientCertiﬁcateRequest created as part of client-
generated authenticator requests.

8.2.  Update of the TLS Exporter Labels Registry

[RFC5705]

IANA has added the following entries to the "TLS Exporter Labels" registry
(deﬁned in
authenticator handshake context", "EXPORTER-client authenticator ﬁnished key" and
"EXPORTER-server authenticator ﬁnished key" with "DTLS-OK" and "Recommended" set to "Y" and
this document listed as the reference.

): "EXPORTER-client authenticator handshake context", "EXPORTER-server

[IANA-EXPORT]

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

8.3.  Update of the TLS HandshakeType Registry

IANA has added the following entry to the "TLS HandshakeType" registry
(deﬁned in
document listed as the reference. In addition, the following appears in the "Comment" column:

): "client_certiﬁcate_request" (17) with "DTLS-OK" set to "Y" and this

[IANA-HANDSHAKE]

[RFC8446]

Used in TLS versions prior to 1.3.

9.  Security Considerations

The Certiﬁcate/Verify/Finished pattern intentionally looks like the TLS 1.3 pattern that now has
[SIGMAC]
been analyzed several times. For example,
and

 contains a comprehensive set of references.

 presents a relevant framework for analysis,

Appendix E.1.6 of [RFC8446]

Authenticators are independent and unidirectional. There is no explicit state change inside TLS
when an authenticator is either created or validated. The application in possession of a validated
authenticator can rely on any semantics associated with data in the certiﬁcate_request_context.

•

This property makes it diﬃcult to formally prove that a server is jointly authoritative over
multiple identities, rather than individually authoritative over each.

•

There is no indication in (D)TLS about which point in time an authenticator was computed.
Any feedback about the time of creation or validation of the authenticator should be tracked
as part of the application-layer semantics if required.

The signatures generated with this API cover the context string "Exported Authenticator";
therefore, they cannot be transplanted into other protocols.

In TLS 1.3, the client cannot explicitly learn from the TLS layer whether its Finished message was
accepted. Because the application traﬃc keys are not dependent on the client's ﬁnal ﬂight,
receiving messages from the server does not prove that the server received the client's Finished
message. To avoid disagreement between the client and server on the authentication status of
Exported Authenticators, servers
processing a received Exported Authenticator.

 verify the client Finished message before sending an EA or

MUST

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[HMAC]

,

Krawczyk, H. Bellare, M.
Authentication" RFC 2104 DOI 10.17487/RFC2104
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2104>
.

, and
,

,

R. Canetti "HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message

, February 1997,

<https://

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

[RFC2119]

[RFC5246]

[RFC5705]

[RFC6066]

[RFC6347]

[RFC7627]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8447]

[RFC9147]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Dierks, T.
E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
 and
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
,
,
info/rfc5246>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, August 2008,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "Keying Material Exporters for Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
5705 DOI 10.17487/RFC5705
,
rfc5705>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2010,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
Deﬁnitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6066>
.

, January 2011,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Rescorla, E.
,
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
,
rfc6347>
.

N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2012,

,

M. Ray
Bhargavan, K., Ed. Delignat-Lavaud, A. Pironti, A. Langley, A.
,
"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Session Hash and Extended Master Secret
Extension" RFC 7627 DOI 10.17487/RFC7627
,
,
.
editor.org/info/rfc7627>

, September 2015,

, and

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

Salowey, J.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8447

,
S. Turner "IANA Registry Updates for TLS and DTLS" RFC 8447
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8447>

, August 2018,

 and

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, and

, April 2022,

,

,

,

10.2.  Informative References

[IANA-EXPORT]

IANA "TLS Exporter Labels" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/tls-

,

,

parameters/>
.

[IANA-HANDSHAKE]

IANA "TLS HandshakeType" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/tls-

,

,
.
parameters/>

[IANA-TLS]

,

IANA "TLS ExtensionType Values" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/tls-
.
extensiontype-values/>

,

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9261

TLS Exported Authenticator

July 2022

[RFC6960]

[RFC6962]

[RFC7250]

[RFC9001]

[RFC9113]

[RFC9162]

[SIGMAC]

,

,

Santesson, S. Myers, M. Ankney, R. Malpani, A. Galperin, S.
509 Internet Public Key Infrastructure Online Certiﬁcate Status Protocol - OCSP"
,
RFC 6960 DOI 10.17487/RFC6960
,
rfc6960>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

C. Adams "X.

, June 2013,

, and

,

,

,

Laurie, B. Langley, A.
,
10.17487/RFC6962

, and
, June 2013,

E. Kasper "Certiﬁcate Transparency" RFC 6962 DOI

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6962>
.

,

Wouters, P., Ed. Tschofenig, H., Ed. Gilmore, J. Weiler, S.
Raw Public Keys in Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 7250 DOI 10.17487/RFC7250
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7250>
.

, June 2014,

<https://

T. Kivinen "Using

, and

,

,

,

,

Thomson, M., Ed.
10.17487/RFC9001

 and
, May 2021,

S. Turner, Ed. "Using TLS to Secure QUIC" RFC 9001 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9001>
.

,

,

,

Thomson, M., Ed.
June 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9113>
.

 and

C. Benﬁeld, Ed. "HTTP/2" RFC 9113 DOI 10.17487/RFC9113
,

,

,

,

Laurie, B. Messeri, E.
,
RFC 9162 DOI 10.17487/RFC9162
,
info/rfc9162>
.

, and

R. Stradling "Certiﬁcate Transparency Version 2.0"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, December 2021,

,

,

Krawczyk, H. "A Unilateral-to-Mutual Authentication Compiler for Key
Exchange (with Applications to Client Authentication in TLS 1.3)" Proceedings of
the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security
,
<https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/711.pdf>
DOI 10.1145/2976749.2978325
.

, August 2016,

,

Acknowledgements

Comments on this proposal were provided by
provided by

Karthikeyan Bhargavan

.

Martin Thomson

. Suggestions for Section 9 were

Author's Address

Nick Sullivan
Cloudﬂare Inc.
Email:

 nick@cloudﬂare.com

Sullivan

Standards Track

Page 14

