Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9012
5512, 5566
5640
Standards Track
April 2021
2070-1721
K. Patel
Arrcus, Inc

G. Van de Velde
Nokia

S. Sangli
Juniper Networks

J. Scudder
Juniper Networks

RFC 9012
The BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

Abstract

This document deﬁnes a BGP path attribute known as the "Tunnel Encapsulation attribute",
which can be used with BGP UPDATEs of various Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁers (SAFIs)
to provide information needed to create tunnels and their corresponding encapsulation headers.
It provides encodings for a number of tunnel types, along with procedures for choosing between
alternate tunnels and routing packets into tunnels.

This document obsoletes RFC 5512, which provided an earlier deﬁnition of the Tunnel
Encapsulation attribute. RFC 5512 was never deployed in production. Since RFC 5566 relies on
RFC 5512, it is likewise obsoleted. This document updates RFC 5640 by indicating that the Load-
Balancing Block sub-TLV may be included in any Tunnel Encapsulation attribute where load
balancing is desired.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9012

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Brief Summary of RFC 5512

1.2.  Deﬁciencies in RFC 5512

1.3.  Use Case for the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

1.4.  Brief Summary of Changes from RFC 5512

1.5.  Update to RFC 5640

1.6.  Eﬀects of Obsoleting RFC 5566

2.  The Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

3.  Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs

3.1.  The Tunnel Egress Endpoint Sub-TLV (Type Code 6)

3.1.1.  Validating the Address Subﬁeld

3.2.  Encapsulation Sub-TLVs for Particular Tunnel Types (Type Code 1)

3.2.1.  VXLAN (Tunnel Type 8)

3.2.2.  NVGRE (Tunnel Type 9)

3.2.3.  L2TPv3 (Tunnel Type 1)

3.2.4.  GRE (Tunnel Type 2)

3.2.5.  MPLS-in-GRE (Tunnel Type 11)

3.3.  Outer Encapsulation Sub-TLVs

3.3.1.  DS Field (Type Code 7)

3.3.2.  UDP Destination Port (Type Code 8)

3.4.  Sub-TLVs for Aiding Tunnel Selection

3.4.1.  Protocol Type Sub-TLV (Type Code 2)

3.4.2.  Color Sub-TLV (Type Code 4)

3.5.  Embedded Label Handling Sub-TLV (Type Code 9)

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

3.6.  MPLS Label Stack Sub-TLV (Type Code 10)

3.7.  Preﬁx-SID Sub-TLV (Type Code 11)

4.  Extended Communities Related to the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

4.1.  Encapsulation Extended Community

4.2.  Router's MAC Extended Community

4.3.  Color Extended Community

5.  Special Considerations for IP-in-IP Tunnels

6.  Semantics and Usage of the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

7.  Routing Considerations

7.1.  Impact on the BGP Decision Process

7.2.  Looping, Mutual Recursion, Etc.

8.  Recursive Next-Hop Resolution

9.  Use of Virtual Network Identiﬁers and Embedded Labels When Imposing a Tunnel

Encapsulation

9.1.  Tunnel Types without a Virtual Network Identiﬁer Field

9.2.  Tunnel Types with a Virtual Network Identiﬁer Field

9.2.1.  Unlabeled Address Families

9.2.2.  Labeled Address Families

10. Applicability Restrictions

11. Scoping

12. Operational Considerations

13. Validation and Error Handling

14. IANA Considerations

14.1.  Obsoleting RFC 5512

14.2.  Obsoleting Code Points Assigned by RFC 5566

14.3.  Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation Grouping

14.4.  BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Tunnel Types

14.5.  Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁers

14.6.  BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs

14.7.  Flags Field of VXLAN Encapsulation Sub-TLV

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

14.8.  Flags Field of NVGRE Encapsulation Sub-TLV

14.9.  Embedded Label Handling Sub-TLV

14.10. Color Extended Community Flags

15. Security Considerations

16. References

16.1.  Normative References

16.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Impact on RFC 8365

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document obsoletes
made, are discussed in Sections 1.1-1.3. The material from
 relies on
incorporated into this document. Since

. The deﬁciencies of

[RFC5566]

[RFC5512]

, and a summary of the changes
 that is retained has been
, it is likewise obsoleted.

[RFC5512]
[RFC5512]

[RFC5512]

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.1.  Brief Summary of RFC 5512

 deﬁnes a BGP path attribute known as the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute. This

[RFC5512]
attribute consists of one or more TLVs. Each TLV identiﬁes a particular type of tunnel. Each TLV
also contains one or more sub-TLVs. Some of the sub-TLVs, for example, the Encapsulation sub-
TLV, contain information that may be used to form the encapsulation header for the speciﬁed
tunnel type. Other sub-TLVs, for example, the "color sub-TLV" and the "protocol sub-TLV", contain
information that aids in determining whether particular packets should be sent through the
tunnel that the TLV identiﬁes.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

[RFC5512]
 only allows the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute to be attached to BGP UPDATE
messages of the Encapsulation Address Family. These UPDATE messages have an Address Family
Identiﬁer (AFI) of 1 or 2, and a SAFI of 7. In an UPDATE of the Encapsulation SAFI, the Network
Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) is an address of the BGP speaker originating the UPDATE.
Consider the following scenario:

•

BGP speaker R1 has received and selected UPDATE U for local use;

•

UPDATE U's SAFI is the Encapsulation SAFI;

•

UPDATE U has the address R2 as its NLRI;

•

UPDATE U has a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute.

•

R1 has a packet, P, to transmit to destination D; and

•

R1's best route to D is a BGP route that has R2 as its next hop.

In this scenario, when R1 transmits packet P, it should transmit it to R2 through one of the
tunnels speciﬁed in U's Tunnel Encapsulation attribute. The IP address of the tunnel egress
endpoint of each such tunnel is R2. Packet P is known as the tunnel's "payload".

1.2.  Deﬁciencies in RFC 5512

While the ability to specify tunnel information in a BGP UPDATE is useful, the procedures of
[RFC5512]

 have certain limitations:

•

The requirement to use the Encapsulation SAFI presents an unfortunate operational cost, as
each BGP session that may need to carry tunnel encapsulation information needs to be
reconﬁgured to support the Encapsulation SAFI. The Encapsulation SAFI has never been
used, and this requirement has served only to discourage the use of the Tunnel
Encapsulation attribute.

•

There is no way to use the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute to specify the tunnel egress
endpoint address of a given tunnel;
each tunnel is speciﬁed as the NLRI of an UPDATE of the Encapsulation SAFI.

 assumes that the tunnel egress endpoint of

[RFC5512]

•

If the respective best routes to two diﬀerent address preﬁxes have the same next hop,
[RFC5512]
diﬀerent tunnel.

 does not provide a straightforward method to associate each preﬁx with a

•

If a particular tunnel type requires an outer IP or UDP encapsulation, there is no way to
signal the values of any of the ﬁelds of the outer encapsulation.

•

In the speciﬁcation of the sub-TLVs in
In some cases, where a sub-TLV may require more than 255 octets for its encoding, a two-
octet Length ﬁeld may be needed.

, each sub-TLV has a one-octet Length ﬁeld.

[RFC5512]

1.3.  Use Case for the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

Consider the case of a router R1 forwarding an IP packet P. Let D be P's IP destination address. R1
must look up D in its forwarding table. Suppose that the "best match" route for D is route Q,
where Q is a BGP-distributed route whose "BGP next hop" is router R2. And suppose further that
the routers along the path from R1 to R2 have entries for R2 in their forwarding tables but do

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

NOT have entries for D in their forwarding tables. For example, the path from R1 to R2 may be
part of a "BGP-free core", where there are no BGP-distributed routes at all in the core. Or, as in
[RFC5565]
may support only IPv6.

, D may be an IPv4 address while the intermediate routers along the path from R1 to R2

In cases such as this, in order for R1 to properly forward packet P, it must encapsulate P and send
P "through a tunnel" to R2. For example, R1 may encapsulate P using GRE, Layer 2 Tunneling
Protocol version 3 (L2TPv3), IP in IP, etc., where the destination IP address of the encapsulation
header is the address of R2.

In order for R1 to encapsulate P for transport to R2, R1 must know what encapsulation protocol
to use for transporting diﬀerent sorts of packets to R2. R1 must also know how to ﬁll in the
various ﬁelds of the encapsulation header. With certain encapsulation types, this knowledge may
be acquired by default or through manual conﬁguration. Other encapsulation protocols have
ﬁelds such as session id, key, or cookie that must be ﬁlled in. It would not be desirable to require
every BGP speaker to be manually conﬁgured with the encapsulation information for every one
of its BGP next hops.

This document speciﬁes a way in which BGP itself can be used by a given BGP speaker to tell
other BGP speakers, "If you need to encapsulate packets to be sent to me, here's the information
you need to properly form the encapsulation header". A BGP speaker signals this information to
other BGP speakers by using a new BGP attribute type value -- the BGP Tunnel Encapsulation
attribute. This attribute speciﬁes the encapsulation protocols that may be used, as well as
whatever additional information (if any) is needed in order to properly use those protocols.
Other attributes, for example, communities or extended communities, may also be included.

1.4.  Brief Summary of Changes from RFC 5512

This document addresses the deﬁciencies identiﬁed in Section 1.2 by:

•

Deprecating the Encapsulation SAFI.

•

Deﬁning a new "Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV" (Section 3.1) that can be included in any of
the TLVs contained in the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute. This sub-TLV can be used to
specify the remote endpoint address of a particular tunnel.

•

Allowing the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute to be carried by BGP UPDATEs of additional AFI/
SAFIs. Appropriate semantics are provided for this way of using the attribute.

•

Deﬁning a number of new sub-TLVs that provide additional information that is useful when
forming the encapsulation header used to send a packet through a particular tunnel.

•

Deﬁning the Sub-TLV Type ﬁeld so that a sub-TLV whose type is in the range from 0 to 127
(inclusive) has a one-octet Length ﬁeld, but a sub-TLV whose type is in the range from 128 to
255 (inclusive) has a two-octet Length ﬁeld.

One of the sub-TLVs deﬁned in
 is the "Encapsulation sub-TLV". For a given tunnel, the
Encapsulation sub-TLV speciﬁes some of the information needed to construct the encapsulation
header used when sending packets through that tunnel. This document deﬁnes Encapsulation
sub-TLVs for a number of tunnel types not discussed in

: Virtual eXtensible Local Area

[RFC5512]

[RFC5512]

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

Network (VXLAN)
[RFC7637]
(NVGRE)
MPLS-in-UDP
since there are no additional parameters to be signaled.

[RFC7348]
, and MPLS in Generic Routing Encapsulation (MPLS-in-GRE)

, Network Virtualization Using Generic Routing Encapsulation
[RFC4023]
.
 is also supported, but an Encapsulation sub-TLV for it is not needed

[RFC7510]

Some of the encapsulations mentioned in the previous paragraph need to be further
encapsulated inside UDP and/or IP.
 provides no way to specify that certain
information is to appear in these outer IP and/or UDP encapsulations. This document provides a
framework for including such information in the TLVs of the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute.

[RFC5512]

When the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is attached to a BGP UPDATE whose AFI/SAFI identiﬁes
one of the labeled address families, it is not always obvious whether the label embedded in the
NLRI is to appear somewhere in the tunnel encapsulation header (and if so, where), whether it is
to appear in the payload, or whether it can be omitted altogether. This is especially true if the
tunnel encapsulation header itself contains a "virtual network identiﬁer". This document
provides a mechanism that allows one to signal (by using sub-TLVs of the Tunnel Encapsulation
attribute) how one wants to use the embedded label when the tunnel encapsulation has its own
Virtual Network Identiﬁer ﬁeld.

 deﬁnes an Encapsulation Extended Community that can be used instead of the Tunnel

[RFC5512]
Encapsulation attribute under certain circumstances. This document describes how the
Encapsulation Extended Community can be used in a backwards-compatible fashion (see Section
4.1). It is possible to combine Encapsulation Extended Communities and Tunnel Encapsulation
attributes in the same BGP UPDATE in this manner.

1.5.  Update to RFC 5640

This document updates
included in any Tunnel Encapsulation attribute where load balancing is desired.

 by indicating that the Load-Balancing Block sub-TLV

[RFC5640]

MAY

 be

1.6.  Eﬀects of Obsoleting RFC 5566

[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]

This speciﬁcation obsoletes RFC 5566. This has the eﬀect of, in turn, deprecating a number of
code points deﬁned in that document. In the "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Tunnel Types"
registry
, the following code points have been marked as deprecated:
"Transmit tunnel endpoint" (type code 3), "IPsec in Tunnel-mode" (type code 4), "IP in IP tunnel
with IPsec Transport Mode" (type code 5), and "MPLS-in-IP tunnel with IPsec Transport Mode"
(type code 6). In the "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs" registry
TUNNEL-ENCAP]
Section 14.2.

, "IPsec Tunnel Authenticator" (type code 3) has been marked as deprecated. See

[IANA-BGP-

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

2.  The Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

The Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is an optional transitive BGP path attribute. IANA has
assigned the value 23 as the type code of the attribute in the "BGP Path Attributes" registry
[IANA-BGP-PARAMS]
Each TLV contains information corresponding to a particular tunnel type. A Tunnel
Encapsulation TLV, also known as Tunnel TLV, is structured as shown in Figure 1.

. The attribute is composed of a set of Type-Length-Value (TLV) encodings.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |    Tunnel Type (2 octets)     |        Length (2 octets)      |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
  |                        Value (variable)                       |
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Tunnel Encapsulation TLV

Tunnel Type (2 octets):

Identiﬁes a type of tunnel. The ﬁeld contains values from the IANA

. See
registry "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Tunnel Types"
Section 3.4.1 for discussion of special treatment of tunnel types with names of the form "X-in-
Y".

[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]

Length (2 octets):

The total number of octets of the Value ﬁeld.

Value (variable):

Comprised of multiple sub-TLVs.

Each sub-TLV consists of three ﬁelds: A 1-octet type, a 1-octet or 2-octet length (depending on the
type), and zero or more octets of value. A sub-TLV is structured as shown in Figure 2.

                    +--------------------------------+
                    | Sub-TLV Type (1 octet)         |
                    +--------------------------------+
                    | Sub-TLV Length (1 or 2 octets) |
                    +--------------------------------+
                    | Sub-TLV Value (variable)       |
                    +--------------------------------+

Figure 2: Encapsulation Sub-TLV

Sub-TLV Type (1 octet):

Each sub-TLV type deﬁnes a certain property about the Tunnel TLV that

contains this sub-TLV. The ﬁeld contains values from the IANA registry "BGP Tunnel
Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs"

[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]

.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

Sub-TLV Length (1 or 2 octets):

The total number of octets of the Sub-TLV Value ﬁeld. The Sub-
TLV Length ﬁeld contains 1 octet if the Sub-TLV Type ﬁeld contains a value in the range from
0-127. The Sub-TLV Length ﬁeld contains two octets if the Sub-TLV Type ﬁeld contains a value
in the range from 128-255.

Sub-TLV Value (variable):

Encodings of the Value ﬁeld depend on the sub-TLV type. The

following subsections deﬁne the encoding in detail.

3.  Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs

This section speciﬁes a number of sub-TLVs. These sub-TLVs can be included in a TLV of the
Tunnel Encapsulation attribute.

3.1.  The Tunnel Egress Endpoint Sub-TLV (Type Code 6)

The Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV speciﬁes the address of the egress endpoint of the tunnel,
that is, the address of the router that will decapsulate the payload. Its Value ﬁeld contains three
subﬁelds:

1.

a Reserved subﬁeld

2.

a two-octet Address Family subﬁeld

3.

an Address subﬁeld, whose length depends upon the Address Family.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                       Reserved (4 octets)                     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |   Address Family (2 octets)   |           Address             |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+          (variable)           +
  ~                                                               ~
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Tunnel Egress Endpoint Sub-TLV Value Field

The Reserved subﬁeld
MUST

 be propagated unchanged.

SHOULD

 be originated as zero. It

MUST

 be disregarded on receipt, and it

The Address Family subﬁeld contains a value from IANA's "Address Family Numbers" registry
[IANA-ADDRESS-FAM]
of other address families is outside the scope of this document.

. This document assumes that the Address Family is either IPv4 or IPv6; use

If the Address Family subﬁeld contains the value for IPv4, the Address subﬁeld
IPv4 address (a /32 IPv4 preﬁx).

MUST

 contain an

If the Address Family subﬁeld contains the value for IPv6, the Address subﬁeld
IPv6 address (a /128 IPv6 preﬁx).

MUST

 contain an

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

In a given BGP UPDATE, the address family (IPv4 or IPv6) of a Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV is
independent of the address family of the UPDATE itself. For example, an UPDATE whose NLRI is
an IPv4 address may have a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute containing Tunnel Egress Endpoint
sub-TLVs that contain IPv6 addresses. Also, diﬀerent tunnels represented in the Tunnel
Encapsulation attribute may have tunnel egress endpoints of diﬀerent address families.

There is one special case: the Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV
Address Family subﬁeld contains 0. This means that the tunnel's egress endpoint is the address of
the next hop. If the Address Family subﬁeld contains 0, the Address subﬁeld is omitted. In this
case, the Length ﬁeld of Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV

 contain the value 6 (0x06).

 have a Value ﬁeld whose

MUST

MAY

When the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is carried in an UPDATE message of one of the AFI/
SAFIs speciﬁed in this document (see the ﬁrst paragraph of Section 6), each TLV
 have one,
and only one, Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV. If a TLV does not have a Tunnel Egress Endpoint
sub-TLV, that TLV should be treated as if it had a malformed Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV
(see below).

MUST

In the context of this speciﬁcation, if the Address Family subﬁeld has any value other than IPv4,
IPv6, or the special value 0, the Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV is considered "unrecognized"
(see Section 13). If any of the following conditions hold, the Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV is
considered to be "malformed":

•

The length of the sub-TLV's Value ﬁeld is other than 6 added to the deﬁned length for the
address family given in its Address Family subﬁeld. Therefore, for address family behaviors
deﬁned in this document, the permitted values are:
◦

10, if the Address Family subﬁeld contains the value for IPv4.

◦

◦

22, if the Address Family subﬁeld contains the value for IPv6.

6, if the Address Family subﬁeld contains the value zero.

•

The IP address in the sub-TLV's Address subﬁeld lies within a block listed in the relevant
Special-Purpose IP Address registry
"forwardable" attribute value of "false". (Such routes are sometimes colloquially known as
"Martians".) This restriction

 be relaxed by explicit conﬁguration.

 with either a "destination" attribute value or a

[RFC6890]

MAY

•

It can be determined that the IP address in the sub-TLV's Address subﬁeld does not belong to
the Autonomous System (AS) that originated the route that contains the attribute. Section
3.1.1 describes an optional procedure to make this determination.

Error handling is speciﬁed in Section 13.

If the Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV contains an IPv4 or IPv6 address that is valid but not
reachable, the sub-TLV is not considered to be malformed.

3.1.1.  Validating the Address Subﬁeld

This section provides a procedure that
TLV's Address subﬁeld belongs to the AS that originated the route that contains the attribute.
(The notion of "belonging to" an AS is expanded on below.) Doing this is thought to increase
conﬁdence that when traﬃc is sent to the IP address depicted in the Address subﬁeld, it will go to

 be applied to validate that the IP address in the sub-

MAY

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

the same AS as it would go to if the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute were not present, although of
course it cannot guarantee it. See Section 15 for discussion of the limitations of this procedure.
The principal applicability of this procedure is in deployments that are not strictly scoped. In
deployments with strict scope, and especially those scoped to a single AS, these procedures may
not add substantial beneﬁt beyond those discussed in Section 11.

The Route Origin Autonomous System Number (ASN) of a BGP route that includes a Tunnel
Encapsulation attribute can be determined by inspection of the AS_PATH attribute, according to
the procedure speciﬁed in

. Call this value Route_AS.

[RFC6811], Section 2

In order to determine the Route Origin ASN of the address depicted in the Address subﬁeld of the
Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV, it is necessary to consider the forwarding route -- that is, the
route that will be used to forward traﬃc toward that address. This route is determined by a
recursive route-lookup operation for that address, as discussed in
relevant AS path to consider is the last one encountered while performing the recursive lookup;
 are applied to that AS path to determine the Route Origin
the procedures of
ASN. If no AS path is encountered at all, for example, if that route's source is a protocol other
than BGP, the Route Origin ASN is the BGP speaker's own AS number. Call this value Egress_AS.

[RFC4271], Section 5.1.3

[RFC6811], Section 2

. The

If Route_AS does not equal Egress_AS, then the Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV is considered not
to be valid. In some cases, a network operator who controls a set of ASes might wish to allow a
tunnel egress endpoint to reside in an AS other than Route_AS; conﬁguration
a case, in which case the check becomes: if Egress_AS is not within the conﬁgured set of
permitted AS numbers, then the Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV is considered to be
"malformed".

 allow for such

MAY

Note that if the forwarding route changes, this procedure
TLV that was formerly considered valid might become not valid, or vice versa.

MUST

 be reapplied. As a result, a sub-

3.2.  Encapsulation Sub-TLVs for Particular Tunnel Types (Type Code 1)

This section deﬁnes Encapsulation sub-TLVs for the following tunnel types: VXLAN
[RFC2784]
.
NVGRE

, MPLS-in-GRE

, and GRE

[RFC7637]

[RFC4023]

[RFC3931]

, L2TPv3

[RFC7348]
,

Rules for forming the encapsulation based on the information in a given TLV are given in
Sections 6 and 9.

Recall that the tunnel type itself is identiﬁed by the Tunnel Type ﬁeld in the attribute header
(Section 2); the Encapsulation sub-TLV's structure is inferred from this. Regardless of the tunnel
type, the sub-TLV type of the Encapsulation sub-TLV is 1. There are also tunnel types for which it
is not necessary to deﬁne an Encapsulation sub-TLV, because there are no ﬁelds in the
encapsulation header whose values need to be signaled from the tunnel egress endpoint.

3.2.1.  VXLAN (Tunnel Type 8)

This document deﬁnes an Encapsulation sub-TLV for
type is VXLAN, the length of the sub-TLV is 12 octets. The structure of the Value ﬁeld in the
Encapsulation sub-TLV is shown in Figure 4.

VXLAN [RFC7348]

 tunnels. When the tunnel

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |V|M|R|R|R|R|R|R|          VN-ID (3 octets)                     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                 MAC Address (4 octets)                        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |  MAC Address (2 octets)       |      Reserved (2 octets)      |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: VXLAN Encapsulation Sub-TLV Value Field

V:

This bit is set to 1 to indicate that a Virtual Network Identiﬁer (VN-ID) is present in the
Encapsulation sub-TLV. If set to 0, the VN-ID ﬁeld is disregarded. Please see Section 9.

M:

This bit is set to 1 to indicate that a Media Access Control (MAC) Address is present in the

Encapsulation sub-TLV. If set to 0, the MAC Address ﬁeld is disregarded.

R:

The remaining bits in the 8-bit Flags ﬁeld are reserved for further use. They
set to 0 by the originator of the sub-TLV. Intermediate routers
modiﬁcation. Any receiving routers

 ignore these bits upon receipt.

MUST

MUST

 always be
MUST
 propagate them without

VN-ID:

If the V bit is set to 1, the VN-ID ﬁeld contains a 3-octet VN-ID value. If the V bit is set to 0,
 be set to zero on transmission and disregarded on receipt.

MUST

the VN-ID ﬁeld

MAC Address:

bit is set to 0, this ﬁeld

If the M bit is set to 1, this ﬁeld contains a 6-octet Ethernet MAC address. If the M
 be set to all zeroes on transmission and disregarded on receipt.

MUST

Reserved:

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and disregarded on receipt.

When forming the VXLAN encapsulation header:

•

The values of the V, M, and R bits are NOT copied into the Flags ﬁeld of the VXLAN header.
The Flags ﬁeld of the VXLAN header is set as per

[RFC7348]

.

•

If the M bit is set to 1, the MAC Address is copied into the Inner Destination MAC Address
ﬁeld of the Inner Ethernet Header (see

Section 5 of [RFC7348]

).

If the M bit is set to 0, and the payload being sent through the VXLAN tunnel is an Ethernet
frame, the Destination MAC Address ﬁeld of the Inner Ethernet Header is just the Destination
MAC Address ﬁeld of the payload's Ethernet header.

If the M bit is set to 0, and the payload being sent through the VXLAN tunnel is an IP or MPLS
packet, the Inner Destination MAC Address ﬁeld is set to a conﬁgured value; if there is no
conﬁgured value, the VXLAN tunnel cannot be used.

•

If the V bit is set to 0, and the BGP UPDATE message has an AFI/SAFI other than Ethernet
VPNs (SAFI 70, "BGP EVPNs"), then the VXLAN tunnel cannot be used.

•

Section 9 describes how the VNI (VXLAN Network Identiﬁer) ﬁeld of the VXLAN
encapsulation header is set.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

Note that in order to send an IP packet or an MPLS packet through a VXLAN tunnel, the packet
must ﬁrst be encapsulated in an Ethernet header, which becomes the "Inner Ethernet Header"
described in
example, the MAC address) that is used to form this Ethernet header.

. The VXLAN Encapsulation sub-TLV may contain information (for

[RFC7348]

3.2.2.  NVGRE (Tunnel Type 9)

This document deﬁnes an Encapsulation sub-TLV for
type is NVGRE, the length of the sub-TLV is 12 octets. The structure of the Value ﬁeld in the
Encapsulation sub-TLV is shown in Figure 5.

NVGRE [RFC7637]

 tunnels. When the tunnel

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |V|M|R|R|R|R|R|R|          VN-ID (3 octets)                     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                 MAC Address (4 octets)                        |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |  MAC Address (2 octets)       |      Reserved (2 octets)      |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: NVGRE Encapsulation Sub-TLV Value Field

V:

This bit is set to 1 to indicate that a VN-ID is present in the Encapsulation sub-TLV. If set to 0,
the VN-ID ﬁeld is disregarded. Please see Section 9.

M:

This bit is set to 1 to indicate that a MAC Address is present in the Encapsulation sub-TLV. If

set to 0, the MAC Address ﬁeld is disregarded.

R:

The remaining bits in the 8-bit Flags ﬁeld are reserved for further use. They
set to 0 by the originator of the sub-TLV. Intermediate routers
modiﬁcation. Any receiving routers

 ignore these bits upon receipt.

MUST

MUST

 always be
MUST
 propagate them without

VN-ID:

If the V bit is set to 1, the VN-ID ﬁeld contains a 3-octet VN-ID value, used to set the

NVGRE Virtual Subnet Identiﬁer (VSID; see Section 9). If the V bit is set to 0, the VN-ID ﬁeld
MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and disregarded on receipt.

MAC Address:

bit is set to 0, this ﬁeld

If the M bit is set to 1, this ﬁeld contains a 6-octet Ethernet MAC address. If the M
 be set to all zeroes on transmission and disregarded on receipt.

MUST

Reserved:

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and disregarded on receipt.

When forming the NVGRE encapsulation header:

•

The values of the V, M, and R bits are NOT copied into the Flags ﬁeld of the NVGRE header.
The Flags ﬁeld of the NVGRE header is set as per

[RFC7637]

.

•

If the M bit is set to 1, the MAC Address is copied into the Inner Destination MAC Address
ﬁeld of the Inner Ethernet Header (see

Section 3.2 of [RFC7637]

).

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

If the M bit is set to 0, and the payload being sent through the NVGRE tunnel is an Ethernet
frame, the Destination MAC Address ﬁeld of the Inner Ethernet Header is just the Destination
MAC Address ﬁeld of the payload's Ethernet header.

If the M bit is set to 0, and the payload being sent through the NVGRE tunnel is an IP or MPLS
packet, the Inner Destination MAC Address ﬁeld is set to a conﬁgured value; if there is no
conﬁgured value, the NVGRE tunnel cannot be used.

•

If the V bit is set to 0, and the BGP UPDATE message has an AFI/SAFI other than Ethernet
VPNs (EVPNs), then the NVGRE tunnel cannot be used.

•

Section 9 describes how the VSID ﬁeld of the NVGRE encapsulation header is set.

3.2.3.  L2TPv3 (Tunnel Type 1)

L2TPv3 over IP [RFC3931]
When the tunnel type of the TLV is
between 4 and 12 octets, depending on the length of the cookie. The structure of the Value ﬁeld of
the Encapsulation sub-TLV is shown in Figure 6.

, the length of the sub-TLV is

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                      Session ID (4 octets)                    |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
  |                        Cookie (variable)                      |
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: L2TPv3 Encapsulation Sub-TLV Value Field

Session ID:

A non-zero 4-octet value locally assigned by the advertising router that serves as a

lookup key for the incoming packet's context.

Cookie:

An optional, variable-length (encoded in 0 to 8 octets) value used by L2TPv3 to check

the association of a received data message with the session identiﬁed by the Session ID.
Generation and usage of the cookie value is as speciﬁed in

[RFC3931]
.

The length of the cookie is not encoded explicitly but can be calculated as (sub-TLV length - 4).

3.2.4.  GRE (Tunnel Type 2)

When the tunnel type of the TLV is
structure of the Value ﬁeld of the Encapsulation sub-TLV is shown in Figure 7.

GRE [RFC2784]

, the length of the sub-TLV is 4 octets. The

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                      GRE Key (4 octets)                       |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: GRE Encapsulation Sub-TLV Value Field

GRE Key: 4-octet ﬁeld

[RFC2890]

optional. Unless a key value is being advertised, the GRE Encapsulation sub-TLV
present.

 that is generated by the advertising router. Note that the key is
 be

MUST NOT

3.2.5.  MPLS-in-GRE (Tunnel Type 11)

When the tunnel type is
structure of the Value ﬁeld of the Encapsulation sub-TLV is shown in Figure 8.

MPLS-in-GRE [RFC4023]

, the length of the sub-TLV is 4 octets. The

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                       GRE Key (4 octets)                      |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 8: MPLS-in-GRE Encapsulation Sub-TLV Value Field

GRE Key:

4-octet ﬁeld

[RFC2890]

 that is generated by the advertising router. Note that the key is

optional. Unless a key value is being advertised, the MPLS-in-GRE Encapsulation sub-TLV
MUST NOT

 be present.

Note that the GRE tunnel type deﬁned in Section 3.2.4 can be used instead of the MPLS-in-GRE
tunnel type when it is necessary to encapsulate MPLS in GRE. Including a TLV of the MPLS-in-
GRE tunnel type is equivalent to including a TLV of the GRE tunnel type that also includes a
Protocol Type sub-TLV (Section 3.4.1) specifying MPLS as the protocol to be encapsulated.

Although the MPLS-in-GRE tunnel type is just a special case of the GRE tunnel type and thus is
not strictly necessary, it is included for reasons of backwards compatibility with, for example,
implementations of

[RFC8365]

.

3.3.  Outer Encapsulation Sub-TLVs

The Encapsulation sub-TLV for a particular tunnel type allows one to specify the values that are
to be placed in certain ﬁelds of the encapsulation header for that tunnel type. However, some
tunnel types require an outer IP encapsulation, and some also require an outer UDP
encapsulation. The Encapsulation sub-TLV for a given tunnel type does not usually provide a way

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

to specify values for ﬁelds of the outer IP and/or UDP encapsulations. If it is necessary to specify
values for ﬁelds of the outer encapsulation, additional sub-TLVs must be used. This document
deﬁnes two such sub-TLVs.

If an outer Encapsulation sub-TLV occurs in a TLV for a tunnel type that does not use the
corresponding outer encapsulation, the sub-TLV
type of sub-TLV.

 be treated as if it were an unrecognized

MUST

3.3.1.  DS Field (Type Code 7)

Most of the tunnel types that can be speciﬁed in the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute require an
outer IP encapsulation. The Diﬀerentiated Services (DS) Field sub-TLV can be carried in the TLV
of any such tunnel type. It speciﬁes the setting of the one-octet Diﬀerentiated Services ﬁeld in the
outer IPv4 or IPv6 encapsulation (see
semantics of the DSCP (Diﬀerentiated Services Code Point) ﬁeld is beyond the scope of this
document. The Value ﬁeld is always a single octet.

). Any one-octet value can be transported; the

[RFC2474]

   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |    DS value   |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 9: DS Field Sub-TLV Value Field

Because the interpretation of the DSCP ﬁeld at the recipient may be diﬀerent from its
interpretation at the originator, an implementation
or modify the DS ﬁeld.

MAY

 provide a facility to use policy to ﬁlter

3.3.2.  UDP Destination Port (Type Code 8)

Some of the tunnel types that can be speciﬁed in the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute require an
outer UDP encapsulation. Generally, there is a standard UDP destination port value for a
particular tunnel type. However, sometimes it is useful to be able to use a nonstandard UDP
destination port. If a particular tunnel type requires an outer UDP encapsulation, and it is
desired to use a UDP destination port other than the standard one, the port to be used can be
speciﬁed by including a UDP Destination Port sub-TLV. The Value ﬁeld of this sub-TLV is always a
two-octet ﬁeld, containing the port value. Any two-octet value other than zero can be
transported. If the reserved value zero is received, the sub-TLV
according to the rules of Section 13.

 be treated as malformed,

MUST

   0                   1
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |       UDP Port (2 octets)     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 10: UDP Destination Port Sub-TLV Value Field

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

3.4.  Sub-TLVs for Aiding Tunnel Selection

3.4.1.  Protocol Type Sub-TLV (Type Code 2)

MAY

 be included in a given TLV to indicate the type of the payload

The Protocol Type sub-TLV
packets that are allowed to be encapsulated with the tunnel parameters that are being signaled
in the TLV. Packets with other payload types
 be encapsulated in the relevant tunnel.
The Value ﬁeld of the sub-TLV contains a 2-octet value from IANA's "ETHER TYPES" registry
[IANA-ETHERTYPES]
malformed according to the rules of Section 13.

. If the reserved value 0xFFFF is received, the sub-TLV

 be treated as

MUST NOT

MUST

   0                   1
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |      Ethertype (2 octets)     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 11: Protocol Type Sub-TLV Value Field

For example, if there are three L2TPv3 sessions, one carrying IPv4 packets, one carrying IPv6
packets, and one carrying MPLS packets, the egress router will include three TLVs of L2TPv3
encapsulation type, each specifying a diﬀerent Session ID and a diﬀerent payload type. The
Protocol Type sub-TLV for these will be IPv4 (protocol type = 0x0800), IPv6 (protocol type =
0x86dd), and MPLS (protocol type = 0x8847), respectively. This informs the ingress routers of the
appropriate encapsulation information to use with each of the given protocol types. Insertion of
the speciﬁed Session ID at the ingress routers allows the egress to process the incoming packets
correctly, according to their protocol type.

Note that for tunnel types whose names are of the form "X-in-Y" (for example, MPLS-in-GRE),
only packets of the speciﬁed payload type "X" are to be carried through the tunnel of type "Y".
This is the equivalent of specifying a tunnel type "Y" and including in its TLV a Protocol Type sub-
TLV (see Section 3.4.1) specifying protocol "X". If the tunnel type is "X-in-Y", it is unnecessary,
though harmless, to explicitly include a Protocol Type sub-TLV specifying "X". Also, for "X-in-Y"
type tunnels, a Protocol Type sub-TLV specifying anything other than "X"
discussed further in Section 13.

 be ignored; this is

MUST

3.4.2.  Color Sub-TLV (Type Code 4)

The Color sub-TLV
of the sub-TLV is eight octets long and consists of a Color Extended Community, as deﬁned in
Section 4.3. For the use of this sub-TLV and extended community, please see Section 8.

 be used as a way to "color" the corresponding Tunnel TLV. The Value ﬁeld

MAY

The format of the Value ﬁeld is depicted in Figure 15.

If the Length ﬁeld of a Color sub-TLV has a value other than 8, or the ﬁrst two octets of its Value
ﬁeld are not 0x030b, the sub-TLV
Section 13).

 be treated as if it were an unrecognized sub-TLV (see

MUST

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

3.5.  Embedded Label Handling Sub-TLV (Type Code 9)

Certain BGP address families (corresponding to particular AFI/SAFI pairs, for example, 1/4, 2/4,
1/128, 2/128) have MPLS labels embedded in their NLRIs. The term "embedded label" is used to
refer to the MPLS label that is embedded in an NLRI, and the term "labeled address family" to
refer to any AFI/SAFI that has embedded labels.

Some of the tunnel types (for example, VXLAN and NVGRE) that can be speciﬁed in the Tunnel
Encapsulation attribute have an encapsulation header containing a virtual network identiﬁer of
some sort. The Encapsulation sub-TLVs for these tunnel types may optionally specify a value for
the virtual network identiﬁer.

Suppose a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is attached to an UPDATE of a labeled address family,
and it is decided to use a particular tunnel (speciﬁed in one of the attribute's TLVs) for
transmitting a packet that is being forwarded according to that UPDATE. When forming the
encapsulation header for that packet, diﬀerent deployment scenarios require diﬀerent handling
of the embedded label and/or the virtual network identiﬁer. The Embedded Label Handling sub-
TLV can be used to control the placement of the embedded label and/or the virtual network
identiﬁer in the encapsulation.

The Embedded Label Handling sub-TLV may be included in any TLV of the Tunnel Encapsulation
attribute. If the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is attached to an UPDATE of a non-labeled
address family, then the sub-TLV
whose tunnel type does not have a virtual network identiﬁer in its encapsulation header, the
sub-TLV
 be disregarded. In those cases where the sub-TLV is ignored, it
stripped from the TLV before the route is propagated.

 be disregarded. If the sub-TLV is contained in a TLV

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

 be

The sub-TLV's Length ﬁeld always contains the value 1, and its Value ﬁeld consists of a single
octet. The following values are deﬁned:

1:

2:

The payload will be an MPLS packet with the embedded label at the top of its label stack.

The embedded label is not carried in the payload but is either carried in the Virtual Network
Identiﬁer ﬁeld of the encapsulation header or else ignored entirely.

If any value other than 1 or 2 is carried, the sub-TLV
to the procedures of Section 13.

MUST

 be considered malformed, according

Please see Section 9 for the details of how this sub-TLV is used when it is carried by an UPDATE of
a labeled address family.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |     1 or 2    |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 12: Embedded Label Handling Sub-TLV Value Field

3.6.  MPLS Label Stack Sub-TLV (Type Code 10)

This sub-TLV allows an MPLS label stack

[RFC3032]

 to be associated with a particular tunnel.

The length of the sub-TLV is a multiple of 4 octets, and the Value ﬁeld of this sub-TLV is a
sequence of MPLS label stack entries. The ﬁrst entry in the sequence is the "topmost" label, and
the ﬁnal entry in the sequence is the "bottommost" label. When this label stack is pushed onto a
packet, this ordering

 be preserved.

MUST

Each label stack entry has the format shown in Figure 13.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                Label                  |  TC |S|      TTL      |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 13: MPLS Label Stack Sub-TLV Value Field

The ﬁelds are as deﬁned in

[RFC3032]

 and

[RFC5462]

.

If a packet is to be sent through the tunnel identiﬁed in a particular TLV, and if that TLV contains
 be pushed
an MPLS Label Stack sub-TLV, then the label stack appearing in the sub-TLV
onto the packet before any other labels are pushed onto the packet. (See Section 6 for further
discussion.)

MUST

In particular, if the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is attached to a BGP UPDATE of a labeled
address family, the contents of the MPLS Label Stack sub-TLV
before the label embedded in the NLRI is pushed onto the packet.

 be pushed onto the packet

MUST

If the MPLS Label Stack sub-TLV is included in a TLV identifying a tunnel type that uses virtual
network identiﬁers (see Section 9), the contents of the MPLS Label Stack sub-TLV
pushed onto the packet before the procedures of Section 9 are applied.

MUST

 be

 be determined from the Sub-TLV Length
The number of label stack entries in the sub-TLV
ﬁeld. Thus, it is not necessary to set the S bit in any of the label stack entries of the sub-TLV, and
the setting of the S bit is ignored when parsing the sub-TLV. When the label stack entries are
pushed onto a packet that already has a label stack, the S bits of all the entries being pushed

MUST

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

 be cleared. When the label stack entries are pushed onto a packet that does not already

MUST
have a label stack, the S bit of the bottommost label stack entry
the other label stack entries
MUST

 be cleared.

MUST

 be set, and the S bit of all

The Traﬃc Class (TC) ﬁeld
unless changed by policy at the originator of the sub-TLV. When pushing the label stack onto a
packet, the TC of each label stack
modiﬁcation.

 be preserved, unless local policy results in a

 of each label stack entry

[RFC3270][RFC5129]

 be set to 0,

SHOULD

SHOULD

The TTL (Time to Live) ﬁeld of each label stack entry
 be set to 255, unless changed to
some other non-zero value by policy at the originator of the sub-TLV. When pushing the label
stack onto a packet, the TTL of each label stack entry
results in a modiﬁcation to some other non-zero value. If any label stack entry in the sub-TLV has
a TTL value of zero, the router that is pushing the stack onto a packet
 change the value to a
non-zero value, either 255 or some other value as determined by policy as discussed above.

 be preserved, unless local policy

SHOULD

SHOULD

MUST

Note that this sub-TLV can appear within a TLV identifying any type of tunnel, not just within a
TLV identifying an MPLS tunnel. However, if this sub-TLV appears within a TLV identifying an
MPLS tunnel (or an MPLS-in-X tunnel), this sub-TLV plays the same role that would be played by
an MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV. Therefore, an MPLS Encapsulation sub-TLV is not deﬁned.

Although this speciﬁcation does not supply detailed instructions for validating the received label
stack, implementations might impose restrictions on the label stack they can support. If an
invalid or unsupported label stack is received, the tunnel
according to the procedures of Section 6.

 be treated as not feasible,

MAY

3.7.  Preﬁx-SID Sub-TLV (Type Code 11)

[RFC8669]
 deﬁnes a BGP path attribute known as the "BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute". This attribute is
deﬁned to contain a sequence of one or more TLVs, where each TLV is either a Label-Index TLV
or an Originator SRGB (Source Routing Global Block) TLV.

This document deﬁnes a Preﬁx-SID (Preﬁx Segment Identiﬁer) sub-TLV. The Value ﬁeld of the
Preﬁx-SID sub-TLV can be set to any permitted value of the Value ﬁeld of a BGP Preﬁx-SID
attribute

[RFC8669]

.

 only deﬁnes behavior when the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute is attached to routes of type
, and it only deﬁnes values of the BGP Preﬁx-SID

[RFC8669]
IPv4/IPv6 Labeled Unicast
attribute for those cases. Therefore, similar limitations exist for the Preﬁx-SID sub-TLV: it
SHOULD
[RFC8669]
included in a BGP UPDATE for any other address family, it

 only be included in a BGP UPDATE message for one of the address families for which
[RFC4760] [RFC8277]

 has a deﬁned behavior, namely BGP IPv4/IPv6 Labeled Unicast

[RFC4760][RFC8277]

 be ignored.

MUST

. If

The Preﬁx-SID sub-TLV can occur in a TLV identifying any type of tunnel. If an Originator SRGB is
speciﬁed in the sub-TLV, that SRGB
egress endpoint. The Label-Index, if present, is the Segment Routing SID that the tunnel's egress
endpoint uses to represent the preﬁx appearing in the NLRI ﬁeld of the BGP UPDATE to which the
Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is attached.

 be interpreted to be the SRGB used by the tunnel's

MUST

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

If a Label-Index is present in the Preﬁx-SID sub-TLV, then when a packet is sent through the
tunnel identiﬁed by the TLV, if that tunnel is from a labeled address family, the corresponding
MPLS label
computed from the Label-Index value and the SRGB of the route's originator, as speciﬁed in
Section 4.1 of [RFC8669]

 be pushed on the packet's label stack. The corresponding MPLS label is

MUST

.

The corresponding MPLS label is pushed on after the processing of the MPLS Label Stack sub-
TLV, if present, as speciﬁed in Section 3.6. It is pushed on before any other labels (for example, a
label embedded in an UPDATE's NLRI or a label determined by the procedures of Section 9) are
pushed on the stack.

The Preﬁx-SID sub-TLV has slightly diﬀerent semantics than the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute. When
the BGP Preﬁx-SID attribute is attached to a given route, the BGP speaker that originally attached
the attribute is expected to be in the same Segment Routing domain as the BGP speakers who
receive the route with the attached attribute. The Label-Index tells the receiving BGP speakers
what the Preﬁx-SID is for the advertised preﬁx in that Segment Routing domain. When the
Preﬁx-SID sub-TLV is used, there is no implication that the Preﬁx-SID for the advertised preﬁx is
the same in the Segment Routing domains of the BGP speaker that originated the sub-TLV and the
BGP speaker that received it.

4.  Extended Communities Related to the Tunnel Encapsulation
Attribute

4.1.  Encapsulation Extended Community

The Encapsulation Extended Community is a Transitive Opaque Extended Community.

The Encapsulation Extended Community encoding is as shown in Figure 14.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  | 0x03 (1 octet)| 0x0c (1 octet)|       Reserved (2 octets)     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |     Reserved (2 octets)       |    Tunnel Type (2 octets)     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 14: Encapsulation Extended Community

The value of the high-order octet of the extended Type ﬁeld is 0x03, which indicates it's
transitive. The value of the low-order octet of the extended Type ﬁeld is 0x0c.

The last two octets of the Value ﬁeld encode a tunnel type.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

This extended community may be attached to a route of any AFI/SAFI to which the Tunnel
Encapsulation attribute may be attached. Each such extended community identiﬁes a particular
tunnel type; its semantics are the same as semantics of a Tunnel TLV in a Tunnel Encapsulation
attribute, for which the following three conditions all hold:

1.

It identiﬁes the same tunnel type.

2.

It has a Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV for which one of the following two conditions holds:
a.

Its Address Family subﬁeld contains zero, or

b.

Its Address subﬁeld contains the address of the Next Hop ﬁeld of the route to which the
Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is attached.

3.

It has no other sub-TLVs.

Such a Tunnel TLV is called a "barebones" Tunnel TLV.

. While it provides only a
The Encapsulation Extended Community was ﬁrst deﬁned in
small subset of the functionality of the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute, it is used in a number of
deployed applications and is still needed for backwards compatibility. In situations where a
tunnel could be encoded using a barebones TLV, it
Encapsulation Extended Community. Notwithstanding, an implementation
process a tunnel received encoded as a barebones TLV.

 be encoded using the corresponding

 be prepared to

[RFC5512]

MUST

MUST

Note that for tunnel types of the form "X-in-Y" (for example, MPLS-in-GRE), the Encapsulation
Extended Community implies that only packets of the speciﬁed payload type "X" are to be carried
through the tunnel of type "Y". Packets with other payload types
such tunnels. See also Section 2.

 be carried through

MUST NOT

In the remainder of this speciﬁcation, when a route is referred to as containing a Tunnel
Encapsulation attribute with a TLV identifying a particular tunnel type, it implicitly includes the
case where the route contains an Encapsulation Extended Community identifying that tunnel
type.

4.2.  Router's MAC Extended Community

 deﬁnes a router's MAC Extended Community. This extended community,

[EVPN-INTER-SUBNET]
as its name implies, carries the MAC address of the advertising router. Since the VXLAN and
NVGRE Encapsulation sub-TLVs can also optionally carry a router's MAC, a conﬂict can arise if
both the Router's MAC Extended Community and such an Encapsulation sub-TLV are present at
the same time but have diﬀerent values. In case of such a conﬂict, the information in the Router's
MAC Extended Community

 be used.

MUST

4.3.  Color Extended Community

The Color Extended Community is a Transitive Opaque Extended Community with the encoding
shown in Figure 15.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  | 0x03 (1 octet)| 0x0b (1 octet)|        Flags (2 octets)       |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                      Color Value (4 octets)                   |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 15: Color Extended Community

The value of the high-order octet of the extended Type ﬁeld is 0x03, which indicates it is
transitive. The value of the low-order octet of the extended Type ﬁeld for this community is 0x0b.
The color value is user deﬁned and conﬁgured locally. No ﬂags are deﬁned in this document; this
ﬁeld
 be
 be set to zero by the originator and ignored by the receiver; the value
changed when propagating this extended community. The Color Value ﬁeld is encoded as a 4-
octet value by the administrator and is outside the scope of this document. For the use of this
extended community, please see Section 8.

MUST NOT

MUST

5.  Special Considerations for IP-in-IP Tunnels

In certain situations with an IP fabric underlay, one could have a tunnel overlay with the tunnel
type IP-in-IP. The egress BGP speaker can advertise the IP-in-IP tunnel endpoint address in the
Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV. When the tunnel type of the TLV is IP-in-IP, it will not have a
virtual network identiﬁer. However, the tunnel egress endpoint address can be used in
identifying the forwarding table to use for making the forwarding decisions to forward the
payload.

6.  Semantics and Usage of the Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

The BGP Tunnel Encapsulation attribute
SAFI is 1/1 (IPv4 Unicast), 2/1 (IPv6 Unicast), 1/4 (IPv4 Labeled Unicast), 2/4 (IPv6 Labeled
Unicast), 1/128 (VPN-IPv4 Labeled Unicast), 2/128 (VPN-IPv6 Labeled Unicast), or 25/70 (Ethernet
VPN, usually known as EVPN). Use of the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute in BGP UPDATE
messages of other AFI/SAFIs is outside the scope of this document.

 be carried in any BGP UPDATE message whose AFI/

MAY

There is no signiﬁcance to the order in which the TLVs occur within the Tunnel Encapsulation
attribute. Multiple TLVs may occur for a given tunnel type; each such TLV is regarded as
describing a diﬀerent tunnel. (This also applies if the Encapsulation Extended Community
encoding is used.)

The decision to attach a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute to a given BGP UPDATE is determined by
policy. The set of TLVs and sub-TLVs contained in the attribute is also determined by policy.

Suppose that:

•

a given packet P must be forwarded by router R;

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

•

the path along which P is to be forwarded is determined by BGP UPDATE U;

•

UPDATE U has a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute, containing at least one TLV that identiﬁes a
"feasible tunnel" for packet P. A tunnel is considered feasible if it has the following four
properties:
1.

The tunnel type is supported (that is, router R knows how to set up tunnels of that type,
how to create the encapsulation header for tunnels of that type, etc.).

2.

The tunnel is of a type that can be used to carry packet P (for example, an MPLS-in-UDP
tunnel would not be a feasible tunnel for carrying an IP packet, unless the IP packet can
ﬁrst be encapsulated in a MPLS packet).

3.

The tunnel is speciﬁed in a TLV whose Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV identiﬁes an IP
[RFC4271]
address that is reachable. The reachability condition is evaluated as per
IP address is reachable via more than one forwarding table, local policy is used to
determine which table to use.

. If the

4.

There is no local policy that prevents the use of the tunnel.

Then router R
Encapsulation attribute of UPDATE U.

MUST

 send packet P through one of the feasible tunnels identiﬁed in the Tunnel

If the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute contains several TLVs (that is, if it speciﬁes several feasible
tunnels), router R may choose any one of those tunnels, based upon local policy. If any Tunnel
TLV contains one or more Color sub-TLVs (Section 3.4.2) and/or the Protocol Type sub-TLV
(Section 3.4.1), the choice of tunnel may be inﬂuenced by these sub-TLVs. Many other factors, for
example, minimization of encapsulation-header overhead, could also be used to inﬂuence
selection.

The reachability to the address of the egress endpoint of the tunnel may change over time,
directly impacting the feasibility of the tunnel. A tunnel that is not feasible at some moment may
become feasible at a later time when its egress endpoint address is reachable. The router may
start using the newly feasible tunnel instead of an existing one. How this decision is made is
outside the scope of this document.

Once it is determined to send a packet through the tunnel speciﬁed in a particular Tunnel TLV of
a particular Tunnel Encapsulation attribute, then the tunnel's egress endpoint address is the IP
address contained in the Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV. If the Tunnel TLV contains a Tunnel
Egress Endpoint sub-TLV whose Value ﬁeld is all zeroes, then the tunnel's egress endpoint is the
address of the next hop of the BGP UPDATE containing the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute (that
is, the Network Address of Next Hop ﬁeld of the MP_REACH_NLRI attribute if the encoding of
[RFC4760] is in use or the NEXT_HOP attribute otherwise). The address of the tunnel egress
endpoint generally appears in a Destination Address ﬁeld of the encapsulation.

The full set of procedures for sending a packet through a particular tunnel type to a particular
tunnel egress endpoint depends upon the tunnel type and is outside the scope of this document.
Note that some tunnel types may require the execution of an explicit tunnel setup protocol
before they can be used for carrying data. Other tunnel types may not require any tunnel setup
protocol.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

Sending a packet through a tunnel always requires that the packet be encapsulated, with an
encapsulation header that is appropriate for the tunnel type. The contents of the tunnel
encapsulation header may be inﬂuenced by the Encapsulation sub-TLV. If there is no
Encapsulation sub-TLV present, the router transmitting the packet through the tunnel must have
a priori knowledge (for example, by provisioning) of how to ﬁll in the various ﬁelds in the
encapsulation header.

A Tunnel Encapsulation attribute may contain several TLVs that all specify the same tunnel type.
Each TLV should be considered as specifying a diﬀerent tunnel. Two tunnels of the same type
may have diﬀerent Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLVs, diﬀerent Encapsulation sub-TLVs, etc.
Choosing between two such tunnels is a matter of local policy.

Once router R has decided to send packet P through a particular tunnel, it encapsulates packet P
appropriately and then forwards it according to the route that leads to the tunnel's egress
endpoint. This route may itself be a BGP route with a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute. If so, the
encapsulated packet is treated as the payload and encapsulated according to the Tunnel
Encapsulation attribute of that route. That is, tunnels may be "stacked".

Notwithstanding anything said in this document, a BGP speaker
 also
inﬂuences the choice of tunnel and the way the encapsulation is formed. A BGP speaker
have a local policy that tells it to ignore the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute entirely or in part. Of
course, interoperability issues must be considered when such policies are put into place.

 have local policy that

MAY

MAY

See also Section 13, which provides further speciﬁcation regarding validation and exception
cases.

7.  Routing Considerations

7.1.  Impact on the BGP Decision Process

The presence of the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute aﬀects the BGP best route-selection
algorithm. If a route includes the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute, and if that attribute includes
no tunnel that is feasible, then that route
MUST NOT
the route resolvability condition (
[RFC4271], Section 9.1.2.1

 be considered resolvable for the purposes of

).

7.2.  Looping, Mutual Recursion, Etc.

Consider a packet destined for address X. Suppose a BGP UPDATE for address preﬁx X carries a
Tunnel Encapsulation attribute that speciﬁes a tunnel egress endpoint of Y, and suppose that a
BGP UPDATE for address preﬁx Y carries a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute that speciﬁes a tunnel
egress endpoint of X. It is easy to see that this can have no good outcome.
 describes an
analogous case as mutually recursive routes.

[RFC4271]

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

This could happen as a result of misconﬁguration, either accidental or intentional. It could also
happen if the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute were altered by a malicious agent.
Implementations should be aware that such an attack will result in unresolvable BGP routes due
to the mutually recursive relationship. This document does not specify a maximum number of
recursions; that is an implementation-speciﬁc matter.

Improper setting (or malicious altering) of the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute could also cause
data packets to loop. Suppose a BGP UPDATE for address preﬁx X carries a Tunnel Encapsulation
attribute that speciﬁes a tunnel egress endpoint of Y. Suppose router R receives and processes the
advertisement. When router R receives a packet destined for X, it will apply the encapsulation
and send the encapsulated packet to Y. Y will decapsulate the packet and forward it further. If Y
is further away from X than is router R, it is possible that the path from Y to X will traverse R.
This would cause a long-lasting routing loop. The control plane itself cannot detect this situation,
though a TTL ﬁeld in the payload packets would prevent any given packet from looping inﬁnitely.

During the deployment of techniques described in this document, operators are encouraged to
avoid mutually recursive route and/or tunnel dependencies. There is greater potential for such
scenarios to arise when the tunnel egress endpoint for a given preﬁx diﬀers from the address of
the next hop for that preﬁx.

8.  Recursive Next-Hop Resolution

Suppose that:

•

a given packet P must be forwarded by router R1;

•

the path along which P is to be forwarded is determined by BGP UPDATE U1;

•

UPDATE U1 does not have a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute;

•

the address of the next hop of UPDATE U1 is router R2;

•

the best route to router R2 is a BGP route that was advertised in UPDATE U2; and

•

UPDATE U2 has a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute.

Then packet P
attribute of UPDATE U2. See Section 6 for further details.

MUST

 be sent through one of the tunnels identiﬁed in the Tunnel Encapsulation

However, suppose that one of the TLVs in U2's Tunnel Encapsulation attribute contains one or
more Color sub-TLVs. In that case, packet P
 be sent through the tunnel contained in
MUST NOT
that TLV, unless U1 is carrying a Color Extended Community that is identiﬁed in one of U2's Color
sub-TLVs.

The procedures in this section presuppose that U1's address of the next hop resolves to a BGP
route, and that U2's next hop resolves (perhaps after further recursion) to a non-BGP route.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

9.  Use of Virtual Network Identiﬁers and Embedded Labels
When Imposing a Tunnel Encapsulation

If the TLV specifying a tunnel contains an MPLS Label Stack sub-TLV, then when sending a packet
through that tunnel, the procedures of Section 3.6 are applied before the procedures of this
section.

If the TLV specifying a tunnel contains a Preﬁx-SID sub-TLV, the procedures of Section 3.7 are
applied before the procedures of this section. If the TLV also contains an MPLS Label Stack sub-
TLV, the procedures of Section 3.6 are applied before the procedures of Section 3.7.

9.1.  Tunnel Types without a Virtual Network Identiﬁer Field

If a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is attached to an UPDATE of a labeled address family, there
will be one or more labels speciﬁed in the UPDATE's NLRI. When a packet is sent through a
tunnel speciﬁed in one of the attribute's TLVs, and that tunnel type does not contain a Virtual
Network Identiﬁer ﬁeld, the label or labels from the NLRI are pushed on the packet's label stack.
The resulting MPLS packet is then further encapsulated, as speciﬁed by the TLV.

9.2.  Tunnel Types with a Virtual Network Identiﬁer Field

Two of the tunnel types that can be speciﬁed in a Tunnel Encapsulation TLV have Virtual
Network Identiﬁer ﬁelds in their encapsulation headers. In the VXLAN encapsulation, this ﬁeld is
called the VNI (VXLAN Network Identiﬁer) ﬁeld; in the NVGRE encapsulation, this ﬁeld is called
the VSID (Virtual Subnet Identiﬁer) ﬁeld.

When one of these tunnel encapsulations is imposed on a packet, the setting of the Virtual
Network Identiﬁer ﬁeld in the encapsulation header depends upon the contents of the
Encapsulation sub-TLV (if one is present). When the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is being
carried in a BGP UPDATE of a labeled address family, the setting of the Virtual Network Identiﬁer
ﬁeld also depends upon the contents of the Embedded Label Handling sub-TLV (if present).

This section speciﬁes the procedures for choosing the value to set in the Virtual Network
Identiﬁer ﬁeld of the encapsulation header. These procedures apply only when the tunnel type is
VXLAN or NVGRE.

9.2.1.  Unlabeled Address Families

This subsection applies when:

•

the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is carried in a BGP UPDATE of an unlabeled address
family,

•

at least one of the attribute's TLVs identiﬁes a tunnel type that uses a virtual network
identiﬁer, and

•

it has been determined to send a packet through one of those tunnels.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

If the TLV identifying the tunnel contains an Encapsulation sub-TLV whose V bit is set to 1, the
Virtual Network Identiﬁer ﬁeld of the encapsulation header is set to the value of the Virtual
Network Identiﬁer ﬁeld of the Encapsulation sub-TLV.

Otherwise, the Virtual Network Identiﬁer ﬁeld of the encapsulation header is set to a conﬁgured
value; if there is no conﬁgured value, the tunnel cannot be used.

9.2.2.  Labeled Address Families

This subsection applies when:

•

the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is carried in a BGP UPDATE of a labeled address family,

•

at least one of the attribute's TLVs identiﬁes a tunnel type that uses a virtual network
identiﬁer, and

•

it has been determined to send a packet through one of those tunnels.

9.2.2.1.  When a Valid VNI Has Been Signaled

If the TLV identifying the tunnel contains an Encapsulation sub-TLV whose V bit is set to 1, the
Virtual Network Identiﬁer ﬁeld of the encapsulation header is set to the value of the Virtual
Network Identiﬁer ﬁeld of the Encapsulation sub-TLV. However, the Embedded Label Handling
sub-TLV will determine label processing as described below.

•

If the TLV contains an Embedded Label Handling sub-TLV whose value is 1, the embedded
label (from the NLRI of the route that is carrying the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute)
appears at the top of the MPLS label stack in the encapsulation payload.

•

If the TLV does not contain an Embedded Label Handling sub-TLV, or it contains an
Embedded Label Handling sub-TLV whose value is 2, the embedded label is ignored entirely.

9.2.2.2.  When a Valid VNI Has Not Been Signaled

If the TLV identifying the tunnel does not contain an Encapsulation sub-TLV whose V bit is set to
1, the Virtual Network Identiﬁer ﬁeld of the encapsulation header is set as follows:

•

If the TLV contains an Embedded Label Handling sub-TLV whose value is 1, then the Virtual
Network Identiﬁer ﬁeld of the encapsulation header is set to a conﬁgured value.

If there is no conﬁgured value, the tunnel cannot be used.

The embedded label (from the NLRI of the route that is carrying the Tunnel Encapsulation
attribute) appears at the top of the MPLS label stack in the encapsulation payload.

•

If the TLV does not contain an Embedded Label Handling sub-TLV, or if it contains an
Embedded Label Handling sub-TLV whose value is 2, the embedded label is copied into the
lower 3 octets of the Virtual Network Identiﬁer ﬁeld of the encapsulation header.

In this case, the payload may or may not contain an MPLS label stack, depending upon other
factors. If the payload does contain an MPLS label stack, the embedded label does not appear
in that stack.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

10.  Applicability Restrictions

In a given UPDATE of a labeled address family, the label embedded in the NLRI is generally a
label that is meaningful only to the router represented by the address of the next hop. Certain of
the procedures of Sections 9.2.2.1 or 9.2.2.2 cause the embedded label to be carried by a data
packet to the router whose address appears in the Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV. If the Tunnel
Egress Endpoint sub-TLV does not identify the same router represented by the address of the
next hop, sending the packet through the tunnel may cause the label to be misinterpreted at the
tunnel's egress endpoint. This may cause misdelivery of the packet. Avoidance of this
unfortunate outcome is a matter of network planning and design and is outside the scope of this
document.

, if Inter-
Note that if the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is attached to a VPN- IP route
) is being used, and if the Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-
AS "option b" (see
TLV contains an IP address that is not in the same AS as the router receiving the route, it is very
likely that the embedded label has been changed. Therefore, use of the Tunnel Encapsulation
attribute in an "Inter-AS option b" scenario is not recommended.

Section 10 of [RFC4364]

[RFC4364]

Other documents may deﬁne other ways to signal tunnel information in BGP. For example,
 deﬁnes the "P-Multicast Service Interface Tunnel" (PMSI Tunnel) attribute. In this
[RFC6514]
speciﬁcation, we do not consider the eﬀects of advertising the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute in
conjunction with other forms of signaling tunnels. Any document specifying such joint use
MUST
provide details as to how interactions should be handled.

11.  Scoping

The Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is deﬁned as a transitive attribute, so that it may be passed
along by BGP speakers that do not recognize it. However, the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute
 be used only within a well-deﬁned scope, for example, within a set of ASes that belong to a
MUST
single administrative entity. If the attribute is distributed beyond its intended scope, packets may
be sent through tunnels in a manner that is not intended.

To prevent the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute from being distributed beyond its intended scope,
any BGP speaker that understands the attribute
incoming BGP UPDATE messages. When the attribute is ﬁltered from an incoming UPDATE, the
attribute is neither processed nor distributed. This ﬁltering
 be possible on a per-BGP-
session basis; ﬁner granularities (for example, per route and/or per attribute TLV)
supported. For each external BGP (EBGP) session, ﬁltering of the attribute on incoming UPDATEs
MUST

 be able to ﬁlter the attribute from

 be enabled by default.

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

 be

In addition, any BGP speaker that understands the attribute
from outgoing BGP UPDATE messages. This ﬁltering
SHOULD
basis. For each EBGP session, ﬁltering of the attribute on outgoing UPDATEs
default.

 be able to ﬁlter the attribute

MUST
 be possible on a per-BGP-session

MUST

 be enabled by

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

Since the Encapsulation Extended Community provides a subset of the functionality of the
Tunnel Encapsulation attribute, these considerations apply equally in its case:

•

Any BGP speaker that understands it
messages.

MUST

 be able to ﬁlter it from incoming BGP UPDATE

•  MUST

It
messages.

 be possible to ﬁlter the Encapsulation Extended Community from outgoing

•

In both cases, this ﬁltering

MUST

 be enabled by default for EBGP sessions.

12.  Operational Considerations

A potential operational diﬃculty arises when tunnels are used, if the size of packets entering the
tunnel exceeds the maximum transmission unit (MTU) the tunnel is capable of supporting. This
diﬃculty can be exacerbated by stacking multiple tunnels, since each stacked tunnel header
further reduces the supportable MTU. This issue is long-standing and well-known. The tunnel
signaling provided in this speciﬁcation does nothing to address this issue, nor to aggravate it
(except insofar as it may further increase the popularity of tunneling).

13.  Validation and Error Handling

The Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is a sequence of TLVs, each of which is a sequence of sub-
TLVs. The ﬁnal octet of a TLV is determined by its Length ﬁeld. Similarly, the ﬁnal octet of a sub-
TLV is determined by its Length ﬁeld. The ﬁnal octet of a TLV
ﬁnal sub-TLV. If this is not the case, the TLV
as-withdraw" procedure of

 be considered to be malformed, and the "Treat-

 also be the ﬁnal octet of its

MUST
 is applied.

[RFC7606]

MUST

If a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute does not have any valid TLVs, or it does not have the
transitive bit set, the "Treat-as-withdraw" procedure of

 is applied.

[RFC7606]

If a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute can be parsed correctly but contains a TLV whose tunnel type
is not recognized by a particular BGP speaker, that BGP speaker
 consider the attribute
to be malformed. Rather, it
the route carrying the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is propagated with the attribute, the
unrecognized TLV

 interpret the attribute as if that TLV had not been present. If

 remain in the attribute.

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

MUST NOT

The following sub-TLVs deﬁned in this document
Tunnel TLV: Tunnel Egress Endpoint (discussed below), Encapsulation, DS, UDP Destination Port,
Embedded Label Handling, MPLS Label Stack, and Preﬁx-SID. If a Tunnel TLV has more than one
of any of these sub-TLVs, all but the ﬁrst occurrence of each such sub-TLV type
disregarded. However, the Tunnel TLV containing them
malformed, and all the sub-TLVs
MUST
Encapsulation attribute is propagated.

 be
 be considered to be
MUST NOT
 be propagated if the route carrying the Tunnel

 occur more than once in a given

MUST

The following sub-TLVs deﬁned in this document may appear zero or more times in a given
Tunnel TLV: Protocol Type and Color. Each occurrence of such sub-TLVs is meaningful. For
example, the Color sub-TLV may appear multiple times to assign multiple colors to a tunnel.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

If a TLV of a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute contains a sub-TLV that is not recognized by a
particular BGP speaker, the BGP speaker
had not been present. If the route carrying the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is propagated
with the attribute, the unrecognized sub-TLV

 process that TLV as if the unrecognized sub-TLV

 remain in the attribute.

MUST

MUST

In general, if a TLV contains a sub-TLV that is malformed, the sub-TLV
were an unrecognized sub-TLV. There is one exception to this rule: if a TLV contains a malformed
Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV (as deﬁned in Section 3.1), the entire TLV
 be ignored and
MUST
attribute is distributed.

 be removed from the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute before the route carrying that

 be treated as if it

MUST

MUST

Within a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute that is carried by a BGP UPDATE whose AFI/SAFI is one
of those explicitly listed in the ﬁrst paragraph of Section 6, a TLV that does not contain exactly
one Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV
Egress Endpoint sub-TLV.

 be treated as if it contained a malformed Tunnel

MUST

A TLV identifying a particular tunnel type may contain a sub-TLV that is meaningless for that
tunnel type. For example, perhaps the TLV contains a UDP Destination Port sub-TLV, but the
identiﬁed tunnel type does not use UDP encapsulation at all, or a tunnel of the form "X-in-Y"
contains a Protocol Type sub-TLV that speciﬁes something other than "X". Sub-TLVs of this sort
 aﬀect the creation of the encapsulation header.
MUST
However, the sub-TLV
 be removed
from the TLV before the route carrying the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute is distributed. An
 log a message when it encounters such a sub-TLV.
implementation

 be considered to be malformed and

 be disregarded. That is, they

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MAY

14.  IANA Considerations

IANA has made the updates described in the following subsections. All registration procedures
listed are per their deﬁnitions in

[RFC8126]
.

14.1.  Obsoleting RFC 5512

Because this document obsoletes RFC 5512, IANA has updated references to RFC 5512 to point to
this document in the following registries:

•

"Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Extended Communities" registry

[IANA-BGP-EXT-COMM]

•

"Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Parameters" registry

[IANA-BGP-PARAMS]

•

"Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" registry

[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]

•

"Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁers (SAFI) Parameters" registry

[IANA-SAFI]

14.2.  Obsoleting Code Points Assigned by RFC 5566

Since this document obsoletes RFC 5566, the code points assigned by that RFC are similarly
obsoleted. Speciﬁcally, the following code points have been marked as deprecated.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

In the "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Tunnel Types" registry

[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]

:

Value Name

Transmit tunnel endpoint (DEPRECATED)

IPsec in Tunnel-mode (DEPRECATED)

IP in IP tunnel with IPsec Transport Mode (DEPRECATED)

MPLS-in-IP tunnel with IPsec Transport Mode (DEPRECATED)

3

4

5

6

Table 1

And in the "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs" registry

:
[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]

Value Name

3

IPsec Tunnel Authenticator (DEPRECATED)

Table 2

14.3.  Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation Grouping

IANA has created a new registry grouping named "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel
.
Encapsulation"

[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]

14.4.  BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Tunnel Types

IANA has relocated the "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Tunnel Types" registry to be under
the "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" grouping
ENCAP]

[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-

.

14.5.  Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁers

IANA has modiﬁed the "SAFI Values" registry
(value 7) has been obsoleted. This document is listed as the reference for this change.

[IANA-SAFI]

 to indicate that the Encapsulation SAFI

14.6.  BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs

IANA has relocated the "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Sub-TLVs" registry to be under the
.
"Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" grouping
[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]

IANA has included the following note to the registry:

If the Sub-TLV Type is in the range from 0 to 127 (inclusive), the Sub-TLV Length ﬁeld
contains one octet. If the Sub-TLV Type is in the range from 128 to 255 (inclusive), the
Sub-TLV Length ﬁeld contains two octets.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

IANA has updated the registration procedures of the registry to the following:

Range

Registration Procedures

1-63

Standards Action

64-125

First Come First Served

126-127

Experimental Use

128-191

Standards Action

192-252

First Come First Served

253-254

Experimental Use

Table 3

IANA has added the following entries to this registry:

Value Description

Reference

RFC 9012

Reserved

Tunnel Egress Endpoint

RFC 9012

DS Field

RFC 9012

UDP Destination Port

RFC 9012

Embedded Label Handling

RFC 9012

MPLS Label Stack

RFC 9012

0

6

7

8

9

10

11

Preﬁx-SID

255

Reserved

Table 4

RFC 9012

RFC 9012

14.7.  Flags Field of VXLAN Encapsulation Sub-TLV

IANA has created a registry named "Flags Field of VXLAN Encapsulation Sub-TLVs" under the
[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]
"Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" grouping
.
The registration policy for this registry is "Standards Action". The minimum possible value is 0,
and the maximum is 7.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

The initial values for this new registry are indicated in Table 5.

Bit Position Description

Reference

0

1

Table 5

V (VN-ID)

RFC 9012

M (MAC Address)

RFC 9012

14.8.  Flags Field of NVGRE Encapsulation Sub-TLV

IANA has created a registry named "Flags Field of NVGRE Encapsulation Sub-TLVs" under the
"Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" grouping
.
[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]
The registration policy for this registry is "Standards Action". The minimum possible value is 0,
and the maximum is 7.

The initial values for this new registry are indicated in Table 6.

Bit Position Description

Reference

0

1

Table 6

V (VN-ID)

RFC 9012

M (MAC Address)

RFC 9012

14.9.  Embedded Label Handling Sub-TLV

IANA has created a registry named "Embedded Label Handling Sub-TLVs" under the "Border
Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" grouping
registration policy for this registry is "Standards Action". The minimum possible value is 0, and
the maximum is 255.

[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]

. The

The initial values for this new registry are indicated in Table 7.

Value Description

Reference

RFC 9012

Reserved

0

1

2

Table 7

Payload of MPLS with embedded label

RFC 9012

No embedded label in payload

RFC 9012

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

14.10.  Color Extended Community Flags

IANA has created a registry named "Color Extended Community Flags" under the "Border
Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" grouping
registration policy for this registry is "Standards Action". The minimum possible value is 0, and
the maximum is 15.

[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]

. The

This new registry contains columns for "Bit Position", "Description", and "Reference". No values
have currently been registered.

15.  Security Considerations

As Section 11 discusses, it is intended that the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute be used only
within a well-deﬁned scope, for example, within a set of ASes that belong to a single
administrative entity. As long as the ﬁltering mechanisms discussed in that section are applied
diligently, an attacker outside the scope would not be able to use the Tunnel Encapsulation
attribute in an attack. This leaves open the questions of attackers within the scope (for example,
a compromised router) and failures in ﬁltering that allow an external attack to succeed.

[RFC4272]

 discusses, BGP is vulnerable to traﬃc-diversion attacks. The Tunnel Encapsulation

As
attribute adds a new means by which an attacker could cause traﬃc to be diverted from its
normal path, especially when the Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV is used. Such an attack would
diﬀer from pre-existing vulnerabilities in that traﬃc could be tunneled to a distant target across
intervening network infrastructure, allowing an attack to potentially succeed more easily, since
less infrastructure would have to be subverted. Potential consequences include "hijacking" of
traﬃc (insertion of an undesired node in the path, which allows for inspection or modiﬁcation of
traﬃc, or avoidance of security controls) or denial of service (directing traﬃc to a node that
doesn't desire to receive it).

In order to further mitigate the risk of diversion of traﬃc from its intended destination, Section
3.1.1 provides an optional procedure to check that the destination given in a Tunnel Egress
Endpoint sub-TLV is within the AS that was the source of the route. One then has some level of
assurance that the tunneled traﬃc is going to the same destination AS that it would have gone to
had the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute not been present. As RFC 4272 discusses, it's possible for
an attacker to announce an inaccurate AS_PATH; therefore, an attacker with the ability to inject a
Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV could equally craft an AS_PATH that would pass the validation
procedures of Section 3.1.1. BGP origin validation
means to increase assurance that the origins being validated have not been falsiﬁed.

 and BGPsec

[RFC8205]

[RFC6811]

 provide

Many tunnels carry traﬃc that embeds a destination address that comes from a non-global
namespace. One example is MPLS VPNs. If a tunnel crosses from one namespace to another,
without the necessary translation being performed for the embedded address(es), there exists a
risk of misdelivery of traﬃc. If the traﬃc contains conﬁdential data that's not otherwise
protected (for example, by end-to-end encryption), then conﬁdential information could be

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

revealed. The restriction of applicability of the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute to a well-deﬁned
scope limits the likelihood of this occurring. See the discussion of "option b" in Section 10 for
further discussion of one such scenario.

). For these purposes, traﬃc introduced into an SR domain using the Preﬁx-SID sub-

RFC 8402 speciﬁes that "SR domain boundary routers
Section 8.1
TLV lies within the SR domain, even though the Preﬁx-SIDs used by the routers at the two ends of
the tunnel may be diﬀerent, as discussed in Section 3.7. This implies that the duty to ﬁlter
external traﬃc extends to all routers participating in such tunnels.

 ﬁlter any external traﬃc" (

[RFC8402],

MUST

16.  References

16.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2474]

[RFC2784]

[RFC2890]

[RFC3032]

[RFC3270]

[RFC3931]

[RFC4023]

[RFC4271]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Nichols, K. Blake, S. Baker, F.
Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers" RFC 2474 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2474

D. Black "Deﬁnition of the Diﬀerentiated
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2474>

, December 1998,

, and

,

.

,

,

,

,
,
Farinacci, D. Li, T. Hanks, S. Meyer, D.
,
Encapsulation (GRE)" RFC 2784 DOI 10.17487/RFC2784
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2784>

, and

,

,

.

P. Traina "Generic Routing

, March 2000,

<https://

Dommety, G. "Key and Sequence Number Extensions to GRE" RFC 2890 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2890>
10.17487/RFC2890

, September 2000,

,

,

,

.

,

Rosen, E. Tappan, D. Fedorkow, G. Rekhter, Y. Farinacci, D. Li, T.
,
"MPLS Label Stack Encoding" RFC 3032 DOI 10.17487/RFC3032
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3032>

.

,

,

,

,

,

, and

A. Conta
, January 2001,

,

,

,

, and

,
Le Faucheur, F. Wu, L. Davie, B. Davari, S. Vaananen, P. Krishnan, R. Cheval,
P.
J. Heinanen "Multi-Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) Support of
Diﬀerentiated Services" RFC 3270 DOI 10.17487/RFC3270
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3270>

, May 2002,

<https://

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

,

Lau, J., Ed. Townsley, M., Ed.
Version 3 (L2TPv3)" RFC 3931 DOI 10.17487/RFC3931
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3931>

, and
,

,

,

.

I. Goyret, Ed. "Layer Two Tunneling Protocol -

, March 2005,

<https://

,
,
Worster, T. Rekhter, Y.
,
Routing Encapsulation (GRE)" RFC 4023 DOI 10.17487/RFC4023
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4023>

, and

,

.

E. Rosen, Ed. "Encapsulating MPLS in IP or Generic

, March 2005,

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4

<https://www.rfc-

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

[RFC4760]

[RFC5129]

[RFC5462]

[RFC6811]

[RFC6890]

[RFC7348]

[RFC7606]

[RFC7637]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8669]

,

Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
,
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>

, and

,

.

,

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

,
Davie, B. Briscoe, B.
,
5129 DOI 10.17487/RFC5129
rfc5129>

, and

.

,

J. Tay "Explicit Congestion Marking in MPLS" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2008,

,

 and

Andersson, L.
Entry: "EXP" Field Renamed to "Traﬃc Class" Field" RFC 5462 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5462

R. Asati "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Stack

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5462>

, February 2009,

,

,

,

.

,

Mohapatra, P. Scudder, J. Ward, D. Bush, R.
,
,
Validation" RFC 6811 DOI 10.17487/RFC6811
editor.org/info/rfc6811>

.

,

,

R. Austein "BGP Preﬁx Origin

,
, and
, January 2013,
<https://www.rfc-

,

Cotton, M. Vegoda, L. Bonica, R., Ed.
,
Address Registries" BCP 153 RFC 6890 DOI 10.17487/RFC6890
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6890>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

B. Haberman "Special-Purpose IP

, April 2013,

,

,

,

, and

,
Mahalingam, M. Dutt, D. Duda, K. Agarwal, P. Kreeger, L. Sridhar, T. Bursell,
M.
C. Wright "Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network (VXLAN): A
Framework for Overlaying Virtualized Layer 2 Networks over Layer 3
,
,
Networks" RFC 7348 DOI 10.17487/RFC7348
editor.org/info/rfc7348>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2014,

.

,

,

,

,

, and
K. Patel "Revised Error
Chen, E., Ed. Scudder, J., Ed. Mohapatra, P.
,
Handling for BGP UPDATE Messages" RFC 7606 DOI 10.17487/RFC7606
2015,
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7606>

,

,

,

, August

Y. Wang, Ed. "NVGRE: Network Virtualization Using Generic

 and

,
Garg, P., Ed.
Routing Encapsulation" RFC 7637 DOI 10.17487/RFC7637
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7637>

,

,

.

, September 2015,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

.

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

,
Previdi, S. Filsﬁls, C. Lindem, A., Ed. Sreekantiah, A.
H. Gredler "Segment
Routing Preﬁx Segment Identiﬁer Extensions for BGP" RFC 8669 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8669

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8669>

, December 2019,

, and
,

,

,

,

.

16.2.  Informative References

[EVPN-INTER-SUBNET]

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

,

Sajassi, A. Salam, S. Thoria, S. Drake, J. E.
,
and Bridging in EVPN" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-bess-evpn-
,
inter-subnet-forwarding-13
ietf-bess-evpn-inter-subnet-forwarding-13>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-

J. Rabadan "Integrated Routing

, 10 February 2021,

, and

,

,

,

.

[IANA-ADDRESS-FAM]

IANA "Address Family Numbers" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/

,

,

address-family-numbers/>

.

[IANA-BGP-EXT-COMM]

IANA "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Extended Communities"

,

,

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/bgp-extended-communities/>

.

[IANA-BGP-PARAMS]

IANA "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Parameters" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/bgp-parameters/>

.

[IANA-BGP-TUNNEL-ENCAP]

IANA "Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation"

,

,

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/bgp-tunnel-encapsulation/>

.

[IANA-ETHERTYPES]

IANA "IEEE 802 Numbers: ETHER TYPES" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

[IANA-SAFI]

[RFC4272]

[RFC4364]

[RFC5512]

[RFC5565]

[RFC5566]

[RFC5640]

[RFC6514]

assignments/ieee-802-numbers/>

.

,

IANA "Subsequent Address Family Identiﬁers (SAFI) Parameters" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/saﬁ-namespace/>

,

.

Murphy, S. "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis" RFC 4272 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4272

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>

, January 2006,

,

,

,

.

 and

Rosen, E.
4364 DOI 10.17487/RFC4364
,
rfc4364>

,

.

Y. Rekhter "BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2006,

,

 and

Mohapatra, P.
Identiﬁer (SAFI) and the BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute" RFC 5512 DOI
10.17487/RFC5512

E. Rosen "The BGP Encapsulation Subsequent Address Family

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5512>

, April 2009,

,
.

,

,

,

Wu, J. Cui, Y. Metz, C.
10.17487/RFC5565

, and
, June 2009,

,

E. Rosen "Softwire Mesh Framework" RFC 5565 DOI

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5565>

.

Berger, L. White, R.
,
RFC 5566 DOI 10.17487/RFC5566
,
rfc5566>
.

, and

,
, June 2009,

E. Rosen "BGP IPsec Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute"

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Filsﬁls, C. Mohapatra, P.
RFC 5640 DOI 10.17487/RFC5640
rfc5640>

,
,
.

, and

C. Pignataro "Load-Balancing for Mesh Softwires"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2009,

,

,

,

Aggarwal, R. Rosen, E. Morin, T.
Procedures for Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6514 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6514

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6514>

Y. Rekhter "BGP Encodings and

, February 2012,

, and

,
,

,

,

.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

[RFC7510]

[RFC8205]

[RFC8277]

[RFC8365]

[RFC8402]

,

Xu, X. Sheth, N. Yong, L. Callon, R.
,
RFC 7510 DOI 10.17487/RFC7510
rfc7510>

,
.

,

, and

D. Black "Encapsulating MPLS in UDP"

,

,

, April 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

Lepinski, M., Ed.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8205
rfc8205>

.

K. Sriram, Ed. "BGPsec Protocol Speciﬁcation" RFC 8205

,

,

,

, September 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
Rosen, E. "Using BGP to Bind MPLS Labels to Address Preﬁxes" RFC 8277 DOI
10.17487/RFC8277

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8277>

, October 2017,

.

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Drake, J., Ed. Bitar, N. Shekhar, R. Uttaro, J.
"A Network Virtualization Overlay Solution Using Ethernet VPN (EVPN)" RFC
,
8365 DOI 10.17487/RFC8365
rfc8365>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

W. Henderickx
,

, March 2018,

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

Filsﬁls, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

.

,

,

,

,

,

, and

R.
, July

Appendix A.  Impact on RFC 8365

[RFC8365]
 references RFC 5512 for its deﬁnition of the BGP Encapsulation Extended Community.
That extended community is now deﬁned in this document, in a way consistent with its previous
deﬁnition.

 talks about the use of the Encapsulation Extended Community to allow

Section 6 of [RFC8365]
Network Virtualization Edge (NVE) devices to signal their supported encapsulations. We note that
with the introduction of this speciﬁcation, the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute can also be used
for this purpose. For purposes where RFC 8365 talks about "advertising supported
encapsulations" (for example, in the second paragraph of Section 6), encapsulations advertised
using the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute should be considered equally with those advertised
using the Encapsulation Extended Community.

In particular, a review of
introduction of the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute creates a need for any revisions to the split-
horizon procedures.

 is called for, to consider whether the

Section 8.3.1 of [RFC8365]

 also refers to a draft version of this speciﬁcation in the ﬁnal paragraph of Section

[RFC8365]
5.1.3. That paragraph references Section 8.2.2.2 of the draft. In this document, the correct
reference would be Section 9.2.2.2. There are no substantive diﬀerences between the section in
the referenced draft version and that in this document.

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

Acknowledgments

This document contains text from RFC 5512, authored by
authors of the current document wish to thank them for their contribution. RFC 5512 itself built
upon prior work by
Simon Barber Lili Wang
Eric Rosen

Gargi Nalawade Ruchi Kapoor Dan Tappan David Ward Scott Wainner

 was the principal author of earlier versions of this document.

, whom the authors also thank for their contributions.

Pradosh Mohapatra

Chris Metz

Eric Rosen

, and

 and

,

,

,

,

,

,

. The

The authors wish to thank
,
Satoru Matsushima Thomas Morin Dhananjaya Rao Ravi Singh Harish Sitaraman Brian
,
Trammell Xiaohu Xu
discussions.

Zhaohui Zhang
 provided an especially comprehensive review.

,
 for their review, comments, and/or helpful

Lou Berger Ron Bonica Martin Djernaes John Drake Susan Hares

, and
Alvaro Retana

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Contributors

Below is a list of other contributing authors in alphabetical order:

Randy Bush
Internet Initiative Japan
5147 Crystal Springs
Bainbridge Island WA 98110
United States of America
Email:

 randy@psg.com

,

Robert Raszuk
Bloomberg LP
731 Lexington Ave
New York City NY 10022
United States of America
Email:

 robert@raszuk.net

,

Eric C. Rosen

Authors' Addresses

Keyur Patel
Arrcus, Inc
2077 Gateway Pl
San Jose CA 95110
,
United States of America
Email:

 keyur@arrcus.com

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9012

Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute

April 2021

Gunter Van de Velde
Nokia
Copernicuslaan 50
2018 Antwerpen
Belgium
Email:

 gunter.van_de_velde@nokia.com

Srihari R. Sangli
Juniper Networks
Email:

 ssangli@juniper.net

John Scudder
Juniper Networks
Email:

 jgs@juniper.net

Patel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

