Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9305
Standards Track
October 2022
2070-1721
F. Maino,
Cisco

P. Agarwal
Innovium

J. Lemon

 Ed.

D. Lewis
Cisco

M. Smith
Cisco

RFC 9305
Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP) Generic
Protocol Extension

Abstract

This document describes extensions to the Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP) data plane, via
changes to the LISP header, to support multiprotocol encapsulation and allow the introduction of
new protocol capabilities.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9305
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions

1.2.  Definitions of Terms

2.  LISP Header without Protocol Extensions

3.  LISP Generic Protocol Extension (LISP-GPE)

4.  Implementation and Deployment Considerations

4.1.  Applicability Statement

4.2.  Congestion-Control Functionality

4.3.  UDP Checksum

4.3.1.  UDP Zero Checksum Handling with IPv6

4.4.  DSCP, ECN, TTL, and 802.1Q

5.  Backward Compatibility

5.1.  Detection of ETR Capabilities

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  LISP-GPE Next Protocol Registry

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The LISP data plane is defined in
. It specifies an encapsulation format that carries IPv4
or IPv6 packets (henceforth jointly referred to as IP) in a LISP header and outer UDP/IP transport.

[RFC9300]

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

The LISP data plane header does not specify the protocol being encapsulated and, therefore, is
currently limited to encapsulating only IP packet payloads. Other protocols, most notably the
Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network (VXLAN) protocol
 (which defines a header
format similar to LISP), are used to encapsulate Layer 2 (L2) protocols, such as Ethernet.

[RFC7348]

This document defines an extension for the LISP header, as defined in
, to indicate the
inner protocol, enabling the encapsulation of Ethernet, IP, or any other desired protocol, all the
while ensuring compatibility with existing LISP deployments.

[RFC9300]

A flag in the LISP header -- the P-bit -- is used to signal the presence of the 8-bit 'Next Protocol'
field. The 'Next Protocol' field, when present, uses 8 bits of the field that was allocated to the
Echo-Noncing and Map-Versioning features in
. Those two features are no longer
available when the P-bit is used. However, appropriate LISP Generic Protocol Extension (LISP-
GPE) shim headers can be defined to specify capabilities that are equivalent to Echo-Noncing
and/or Map-Versioning.

[RFC9300]

Since all of the reserved bits of the LISP data plane header have been allocated, LISP-GPE can
also be used to extend the LISP data plane header by defining Next Protocol shim headers that
implement new data plane functions not supported in the LISP header. For example, the use of
 or of the In situ Operations, Administration,
the Group-Based Policy (GBP) header
and Maintenance (IOAM) header
 with LISP-GPE can be considered an extension to
add support in the data plane for GBP functionalities or IOAM metadata.

[VXLAN-LISP]

[VXLAN-GPE]

1.1.  Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Definitions of Terms

This document uses terms already defined in

[RFC9300]
.

2.  LISP Header without Protocol Extensions

As described in Section 1, the LISP header has no protocol identifier that indicates the type of
payload being carried. Because of this, LISP is limited to carrying IP payloads.

[RFC9300]

The LISP header
Map-Version' field, and an 'Instance ID/Locator-Status-Bits' field. The flags provide flexibility to
define how the various fields are encoded. Notably, Flag bit 5 is the last reserved bit in the LISP
header.

 contains a series of flags (some defined, some reserved), a 'Nonce/

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|N|L|E|V|I|R|K|K|            Nonce/Map-Version                  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Instance ID/Locator-Status-Bits               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: LISP Header

3.  LISP Generic Protocol Extension (LISP-GPE)

This document defines two changes to the LISP header in order to support multiprotocol
encapsulation: the introduction of the P-bit and the definition of a 'Next Protocol' field. This
document specifies the protocol behavior when the P-bit is set to 1; no changes are introduced
when the P-bit is set to 0. The LISP-GPE header is shown in Figure 2 and described below.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|N|L|E|V|I|P|K|K|        Nonce/Map-Version/Next Protocol        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Instance ID/Locator-Status-Bits               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: LISP-GPE Header

P-Bit:

Flag bit 5 is defined as the Next Protocol bit. The P-bit is set to 1 to indicate the presence of

the 8-bit 'Next Protocol' field.

If the P-bit is clear (0), the LISP header is bit-by-bit equivalent to the definition in

[RFC9300]
.

MUST

When the P-bit is set to 1, bits N, E, and V, and bits 8-23 of the 'Nonce/Map-Version/Next Protocol'
 be ignored on receipt. Features equivalent to
field
MUST
those that were implemented with bits N, E, and V in
, such as Echo-Noncing and Map-
Versioning, can be implemented by defining appropriate LISP-GPE shim headers.

 be set to zero on transmission and

[RFC9300]

When the P-bit is set to 1, the LISP-GPE header is encoded as:

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

 0 x 0 0 x 1 x x
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|N|L|E|V|I|P|K|K|             0x0000            | Next Protocol |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Instance ID/Locator-Status-Bits               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: LISP-GPE with P-bit Set to 1

Next Protocol:

When the P-bit is set to 1, the lower 8 bits of the first 32-bit word are used to
carry a Next Protocol. This 'Next Protocol' field contains the protocol of the encapsulated
payload packet.

This document defines the following Next Protocol values:

0x00:

Reserved

0x01:

IPv4

0x02:

IPv6

0x03:

Ethernet

0x04:

Network Service Header (NSH)

[RFC8300]

0x05 to 0x7D:

Unassigned

0x7E and 0x7F:

Experimentation and testing

0x80 to 0xFD:

Unassigned (shim headers)

0xFE, 0xFF:

Experimentation and testing (shim headers)

The values are tracked in the IANA "LISP-GPE Next Protocol" registry, as described in Section 6.1.

Next Protocol values 0x7E, 0x7F, 0xFE, and 0xFF are assigned for experimentation and testing, as
per

[RFC3692]
.

Next Protocol values from 0x80 to 0xFD are assigned to protocols encoded as generic shim
headers. All shim protocols
Protocol' field. When shim headers are used with other protocols identified by Next Protocol
values from 0x00 to 0x7F, all the shim headers

 use the header structure in Figure 4, which includes a 'Next

 come first.

MUST

MUST

Shim headers can be used to incrementally deploy new GPE features, keeping the processing of
shim headers known to a given Tunnel Router (xTR) implementation in the 'fast' path (typically
an Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC)) while punting the processing of the remaining
new GPE features to the 'slow' path.

Shim protocols

MUST

 have the first 32 bits defined as:

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Type      |    Length     |   Reserved    | Next Protocol |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
~                    Protocol-Specific Fields                   ~
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: Shim Header

Where:

Type:

This field identifies the different messages of this protocol.

Length:

This field indicates the length, in 4-octet units, of this protocol message, not including

the first 4 octets.

Reserved:

The use of this field is reserved to the protocol defined in this message.

Next Protocol:

This field contains the protocol of the encapsulated payload. The values are

tracked in the IANA "LISP-GPE Next Protocol" registry, as described in Section 6.1.

4.  Implementation and Deployment Considerations

4.1.  Applicability Statement

LISP-GPE conforms, as a UDP-based encapsulation protocol, to the UDP usage guidelines specified
in
the nature of the encapsulated payload.

. The applicability of these guidelines is dependent on the underlay IP network and

[RFC8085]

 outlines two applicability scenarios for UDP applications: 1) the general Internet and

[RFC8085]
2) a controlled environment. A controlled environment means a single administrative domain or
adjacent set of cooperating domains. A network in a controlled environment can be managed to
operate under certain conditions, whereas, in the general Internet, this cannot be done. Hence,
requirements for a tunnel protocol operating under a controlled environment can be less
restrictive than the requirements of the general Internet.

The LISP-GPE scope of applicability is the same set of use cases covered by
 for the LISP
data plane protocol. The common property of these use cases is a large set of cooperating entities
seeking to communicate over the public Internet or other large underlay IP infrastructures while
keeping the addressing and topology of the cooperating entities separate from the underlay and
Internet topology, routing, and addressing.

[RFC9300]

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

LISP-GPE is meant to be deployed in network environments operated by a single operator or
adjacent set of cooperating network operators that fit with the definition of controlled
environments in

[RFC8085]
.

For the purpose of this document, a Traffic-Managed Controlled Environment (TMCE), outlined in
[RFC8086]
via the use of traffic rate limiters) to avoid congestion. Significant portions of the text in this
section are based on

, is defined as an IP network that is traffic-engineered and/or otherwise managed (e.g.,

[RFC8086]
.

It is the responsibility of the network operators to ensure that the guidelines/requirements in this
section are followed as applicable to their LISP-GPE deployments.

4.2.  Congestion-Control Functionality

LISP-GPE does not provide congestion-control functionality and relies on the payload protocol
traffic for congestion control. As such, LISP-GPE
 be used with congestion-controlled traffic
or within a network that is traffic managed to avoid congestion (TMCE). An operator of a traffic-
managed network (TMCE) may avoid congestion by careful provisioning of their networks, rate
limiting of user data traffic, and traffic engineering according to path capacity.

MUST

MUST

 be accompanied by a set of guidelines derived from

Keeping in mind the recommendation above, new encapsulated payloads, when registered with
LISP-GPE,
. Such
new protocols should be designed for explicit congestion signals to propagate consistently from
lower-layer protocols into IP. Then, the IP internetwork layer can act as a portability layer to
carry congestion notifications from non-IP-aware congested nodes up to the transport layer (L4).
By following the guidelines in
, subnetwork designers can enable a Layer 2
protocol to participate in congestion control without dropping packets, via propagation of
Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) data

Section 5 of [RFC9300]

[ENCAP-GUIDE]

 to receivers.

[RFC3168]

4.3.  UDP Checksum

Section 5.3 of [RFC9300]

For IP payloads,
implementors to consider UDP checksum usage guidelines in
desirable to protect UDP and LISP headers against corruption.

 specifies how to handle UDP checksums, encouraging

Section 3.4 of [RFC8085]

 when it is

SHOULD

In order to protect the integrity of LISP-GPE headers, options, and payloads (for example, to
avoid misdelivery of payloads to different tenant systems in the case of data corruption), the
outer UDP checksum
checksum provides a statistical guarantee that a payload was not corrupted in transit. These
integrity checks are not strong from a coding or cryptographic perspective and are not designed
to detect physical-layer errors or malicious modifications of the datagram (see
[RFC8085]
integrity mechanisms, such as those offered by IPsec.

 be used with LISP-GPE when transported over IPv4. The UDP

). In deployments where such a risk exists, an operator

 use additional data

Section 3.4 of

SHOULD

MAY

An operator
 choose to disable a UDP checksum and use a zero checksum if LISP-GPE packet
integrity is provided by other data integrity mechanisms, such as IPsec or additional checksums,
or if one of the conditions in Section 4.3.1 (a, b, or c) is met.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

4.3.1.  UDP Zero Checksum Handling with IPv6

By default, a UDP checksum
endpoint
described in this section are met.

MAY

MUST

 be configured for use with a zero UDP checksum if additional requirements

 be used when LISP-GPE is transported over IPv6. A tunnel

When LISP-GPE is used over IPv6, a UDP checksum is used to protect IPv6 headers, UDP headers,
and LISP-GPE headers and payloads from potential data corruption. As such, by default, LISP-
GPE
configure to operate with a zero UDP checksum if operating in a traffic-managed controlled
environment, as stated in Section 4.1, if one of the following conditions is met:

 use a UDP checksum when transported over IPv6. An operator

 choose to

MUST

MAY

a.

It is known that packet corruption is exceptionally unlikely (perhaps based on an operator's
knowledge of equipment types in their underlay network), and the operator is willing to take
the risk of undetected packet corruption.

b.

It is determined through observational measurements (perhaps through historic or current
traffic flows that use a non-zero checksum) that the level of packet corruption is tolerably
low, and the operator is willing to take the risk of undetected corruption.

c.

LISP-GPE payloads are carrying applications that are tolerant of misdelivered or corrupted
packets (perhaps through higher-layer checksum validation and/or reliability through
retransmission).

In addition, LISP-GPE tunnel implementations using a zero UDP checksum
following requirements:

MUST

 meet the

1.

Use of a UDP checksum over IPv6

MUST

 be the default configuration for all LISP-GPE tunnels.

2.

If LISP-GPE is used with a zero UDP checksum over IPv6, then such xTR implementations
MUST
specified in

 meet all the requirements specified in

Section 4 of [RFC6936]

Section 5 of [RFC6936]

 and requirement 1

.

3.

The Egress Tunnel Router (ETR) that decapsulates the packet
and destination IPv6 addresses are valid for the LISP-GPE tunnel that is configured to receive
a zero UDP checksum and discard other packets that fail such checks.

 check that the source

SHOULD

4.

The Ingress Tunnel Router (ITR) that encapsulates the packet
addresses for each LISP-GPE tunnel that uses zero UDP checksum mode in order to
strengthen the decapsulator's check of the IPv6 source address (i.e., the same IPv6 source
address is not to be used with more than one IPv6 destination address, irrespective of
whether that destination address is a unicast or multicast address). When this is not possible,
it is
UDP checksum as is feasible.

 to use each source address for as few LISP-GPE tunnels that use a zero

 use different IPv6 source

RECOMMENDED

MAY

5.

SHOULD

 be taken to prevent LISP-GPE traffic over IPv6 with a zero UDP checksum

Measures
from escaping into the general Internet. Examples of such measures include employing
packet filters at the Proxy Egress Tunnel Router (PETR) and/or keeping logical or physical
separation of the LISP network from networks in the general Internet.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

The above requirements do not change the requirements specified in
[RFC8200]
.

[RFC6935] [RFC6936]
,

, or

The requirement to check the source IPv6 address in addition to the destination IPv6 address,
plus the recommendation against the reuse of source IPv6 addresses among LISP-GPE tunnels,
collectively provide some mitigation for the absence of UDP checksum coverage of the IPv6
header. A traffic-managed controlled environment that satisfies at least one of the three
conditions listed at the beginning of this section provides additional assurance.

4.4.  DSCP, ECN, TTL, and 802.1Q

[RFC2983]

 provides guidance for

When encapsulating IP (including over Ethernet) packets,
mapping packets that contain Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP) information between
inner and outer IP headers. The Pipe model typically fits better with network virtualization. The
DSCP value on the tunnel header is set based on a policy (which may be a fixed value, one based
on the inner traffic class, or some other mechanism for grouping traffic). Some aspects of the
Uniform model (which treats the inner and outer DSCP value as a single field by copying on
ingress and egress) may also apply, such as the ability to remark the inner header on tunnel
egress based on transit marking. However, the Uniform model is not conceptually consistent
with network virtualization, which seeks to provide strong isolation between encapsulated
traffic and the physical network.

 describes the mechanism for exposing ECN capabilities on IP tunnels and propagating

[RFC6040]
congestion markers to the inner packets. This behavior
encapsulated in LISP-GPE.

MUST

 be followed for IP packets

Though the Uniform model or the Pipe model could be used for TTL (or Hop Limit in the case of
IPv6) handling when tunneling IP packets, the Pipe model is more aligned with network
virtualization.
outer IP tunnels; this model is more aligned with the Pipe model and is recommended for use
with LISP-GPE for network-virtualization applications.

 provides guidance on handling TTL between inner IP headers and

[RFC2003]

When a LISP-GPE router performs Ethernet encapsulation, the inner 802.1Q 3-bit Priority Code
Point ('PCP') field
 be mapped from the encapsulated frame to the DSCP
codepoint of the Differentiated Services ('DS') field defined in

[IEEE.802.1Q_2014] MAY

[RFC2474]
.

When a LISP-GPE router performs Ethernet encapsulation, the inner-header 802.1Q VLAN
Identifier (VID)
ID' (IID) field.

 be mapped to, or used to determine, the LISP 'Instance

[IEEE.802.1Q_2014] MAY

Refer to Section 7 for considerations about the use of integrity protection for deployments, such
as the public Internet, concerned with on-path attackers.

5.  Backward Compatibility

LISP-GPE uses the same UDP destination port (4341) allocated to LISP.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

When encapsulating IP packets to a non-LISP-GPE-capable router, the P-bit
is, the encapsulation format defined in this document
indicated that it supports this specification, because such a router would ignore the P-bit (as
described in
significant errors.

) and so would misinterpret the other LISP header fields, possibly causing

 be sent to a router that has not

 be set to 0. That

[RFC9300]

MUST NOT

MUST

5.1.  Detection of ETR Capabilities

The discovery of xTR capabilities to support LISP-GPE is out of the scope of this document. Given
that the applicability domain of LISP-GPE is a traffic-managed controlled environment, ITR/ETR
(xTR) configuration mechanisms may be used for this purpose.

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  LISP-GPE Next Protocol Registry

IANA has created a registry called "LISP-GPE Next Protocol". These are 8-bit values. Next Protocol
values in the table below are defined in this document. New values are assigned under the
Specification Required policy
themselves need to be IETF Standards Track protocols.

. The protocols that are being assigned values do not

[RFC8126]

Next Protocol Description

0x00

0x01

0x02

0x03

0x04

Reserved

IPv4

IPv6

Ethernet

NSH

0x05-0x7D

Unassigned

Reference

RFC 9305

RFC 9305

RFC 9305

RFC 9305

RFC 9305

0x7E-0x7F

Experimentation and testing

RFC 9305

0x80-0xFD

Unassigned (shim headers)

0xFE-0xFF

Experimentation and testing (shim headers)

RFC 9305

Table 1

7.  Security Considerations

LISP-GPE security considerations are similar to the LISP security considerations and mitigation
techniques documented in

[RFC7835]
.

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

As is the case for many encapsulations that use optional extensions, LISP-GPE is subject to on-
path adversaries that can make arbitrary modifications to the packet (including the P-bit) to
change or remove any part of the payload, or claim to encapsulate any protocol payload type.
Typical integrity protection mechanisms (such as IPsec)
 be used in combination with
LISP-GPE by those protocol extensions that want to protect against on-path attackers.

SHOULD

With LISP-GPE, issues such as data plane spoofing, flooding, and traffic redirection may depend
on the particular protocol payload encapsulated.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[IEEE.802.1Q_2014]

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks--Bridges

,

and Bridged Networks" IEEE Std 802.1Q-2014
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6991462>

,

.

, December 2014,

<https://

[RFC2119]

[RFC6040]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9300]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Briscoe, B. "Tunnelling of Explicit Congestion Notification" RFC 6040 DOI
10.17487/RFC6040

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6040>

, November 2010,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Farinacci, D. Fuller, V. Meyer, D. Lewis, D.
Separation Protocol (LISP)" RFC 9300 DOI 10.17487/RFC9300
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9300>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

A. Cabellos, Ed. "The Locator/ID
,

, October 2022,

8.2.  Informative References

[ENCAP-GUIDE]

[RFC2003]

[RFC2474]

[RFC2983]

Briscoe, B.

 and

J. Kaippallimalil "Guidelines for Adding Congestion

,

Notification to Protocols that Encapsulate IP" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-ietf-tsvwg-ecn-encap-guidelines-17
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tsvwg-ecn-encap-guidelines-17>

, 11 July 2022,

<https://

,

,

.

Perkins, C. "IP Encapsulation within IP" RFC 2003 DOI 10.17487/RFC2003
October 1996,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2003>

,

,

,

.

,

,

Nichols, K. Blake, S. Baker, F.
Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers" RFC 2474 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2474

D. Black "Definition of the Differentiated
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2474>

, December 1998,

, and

,

,

,

.

Black, D. "Differentiated Services and Tunnels" RFC 2983 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC2983
, October 2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2983>

.

,

,

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

[RFC3168]

[RFC3692]

[RFC6935]

[RFC6936]

[RFC7348]

[RFC7835]

[RFC8085]

[RFC8086]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8200]

[RFC8300]

Ramakrishnan, K. Floyd, S.
Notification (ECN) to IP" RFC 3168 DOI 10.17487/RFC3168
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3168>

, and

,

,

,

.

D. Black "The Addition of Explicit Congestion

,

, September 2001,

,

Narten, T. "Assigning Experimental and Testing Numbers Considered Useful"
BCP 82 RFC 3692 DOI 10.17487/RFC3692
editor.org/info/rfc3692>

<https://www.rfc-

, January 2004,

,

,

.

,

Eubanks, M. Chimento, P.
,
Tunneled Packets" RFC 6935 DOI 10.17487/RFC6935
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6935>

, and
,

,

.

M. Westerlund "IPv6 and UDP Checksums for

,

, April 2013,

<https://

 and

Fairhurst, G.
UDP Datagrams with Zero Checksums" RFC 6936 DOI 10.17487/RFC6936
2013,

M. Westerlund "Applicability Statement for the Use of IPv6

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6936>

,

,

,

.

, April

,

,

,

, and

Mahalingam, M. Dutt, D. Duda, K. Agarwal, P. Kreeger, L. Sridhar, T. Bursell,
,
M.
C. Wright "Virtual eXtensible Local Area Network (VXLAN): A
Framework for Overlaying Virtualized Layer 2 Networks over Layer 3
Networks" RFC 7348 DOI 10.17487/RFC7348
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7348>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2014,

,

,

,

.

Saucez, D. Iannone, L.
,
(LISP) Threat Analysis" RFC 7835 DOI 10.17487/RFC7835
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7835>

O. Bonaventure "Locator/ID Separation Protocol
<https://

, and
,

, April 2016,

,
.

,

,

Eggert, L. Fairhurst, G.
, and
8085 DOI 10.17487/RFC8085
,
rfc8085>

.

G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
,
, March 2017,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Yong, L., Ed. Crabbe, E. Xu, X.
8086 DOI 10.17487/RFC8086
,
rfc8086>

.

,

, and

T. Herbert "GRE-in-UDP Encapsulation" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

, March 2017,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

,

.

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2017,

,

Quinn, P., Ed. Elzur, U., Ed.
,
(NSH)" RFC 8300 DOI 10.17487/RFC8300
editor.org/info/rfc8300>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2018,

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Network Service Header

<https://www.rfc-

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

[VXLAN-GPE]

[VXLAN-LISP]

,

,

Brockners, F. Bhandari, S. Govindan, V. Pignataro, C. Gredler, H. Leddy, J.
,
Youell, S. Mizrahi, T. Kfir, A. Gafni, B. Lapukhov, P.
GPE Encapsulation for In-situ OAM Data" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-brockners-ippm-ioam-vxlan-gpe-03
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-brockners-ippm-ioam-vxlan-gpe-03>

,
,
, 4 November 2019,

,
, and

<https://

M. Spiegel "VXLAN-
,

,

.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Lemon, J., Ed. Maino, F. Smith, M.
VXLAN-GPE and LISP-GPE" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-lemon-vxlan-
lisp-gpe-gbp-02
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-lemon-
vxlan-lisp-gpe-gbp-02>

A. Isaac "Group Policy Encoding with

, 30 April 2019,
.

, and

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

A special thank you goes to
Herbert

 for the suggestion to assign codepoints for experimentations and testing.

Dino Farinacci

 for his guidance and detailed review. Thanks to

Tom

Contributors

The editor of this document would like to thank and recognize the following coauthors and
contributors for their contributions. These coauthors and contributors provided invaluable
concepts and content for this document's creation.

Darrel Lewis
Cisco Systems, Inc.

Fabio Maino
Cisco Systems, Inc.

Paul Quinn
Cisco Systems, Inc.

Michael Smith
Cisco Systems, Inc.

Navindra Yadav
Cisco Systems, Inc.

Larry Kreeger

Jennifer Lemon
Broadcom

Puneet Agarwal
Innovium

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9305

LISP-GPE

October 2022

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Fabio Maino (
Cisco Systems
San Jose CA
United States of America
Email:

 fmaino@cisco.com

,

Jennifer Lemon
Email:

 jalemon@meus.us

Puneet Agarwal
Innovium
United States of America
Email:
 puneet@acm.org

Darrel Lewis
Cisco Systems
San Jose CA
United States of America
Email:

 darlewis@cisco.com

,

Michael Smith
Cisco Systems
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

 michsmit@cisco.com

Maino, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

