Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9100
8428
Standards Track
August 2021
2070-1721
C. Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI

RFC 9100
Sensor Measurement Lists (SenML) Features and
Versions

Abstract

This short document updates RFC 8428, "Sensor Measurement Lists (SenML)", by specifying the
use of independently selectable "SenML Features" and mapping them to SenML version
numbers.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9100

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9100

SenML Features and Versions

August 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

2.  Feature Codes and the Version Number

2.1.  Discussion

2.2.  Updating Section 4.4 of RFC 8428

3.  Features: Reserved0, Reserved1, Reserved2, Reserved3

4.  Feature: Secondary Units

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

The Sensor Measurement Lists (SenML) speciﬁcation
is initially set to 10, without further speciﬁcation on the way to make use of diﬀerent version
numbers.

 provides a version number that

[RFC8428]

The common idea of using a version number to indicate the evolution of an interchange format
generally assumes an incremental progression of the version number as the format accretes
additional features over time. However, in the case of SenML, it is expected that the likely
evolution will be for independently selectable capability features to be added to the basic
speciﬁcation that is indicated by version number 10. To support this model, this document
repurposes the single version number accompanying a pack of SenML records so that it is
interpreted as a bitmap that indicates the set of features a recipient would need to have
implemented to be able to process the pack.

This short document speciﬁes the use of SenML Features and maps them to SenML version
number space, updating

[RFC8428]

.

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9100

SenML Features and Versions

August 2021

1.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

[C]

, including the 0b preﬁx for binary numbers deﬁned in Section

Where bit arithmetic is explained, this document uses the notation familiar from the
programming language C
5.13.2 of the C++ language standard
, except that superscript notation (example for
two to the power of 64: 264) denotes exponentiation; in the plain text version of this document,
superscript notation is rendered in paragraph text by C-incompatible surrogate notation as seen
in this example, and in display math by a crude plain text representation, as is the sum (Sigma)
sign.

[CPLUSPLUS]

2.  Feature Codes and the Version Number

The present speciﬁcation deﬁnes "SenML Features", each identiﬁed by a "feature name" (a text
string) and a "feature code" (an unsigned integer less than 53).

The speciﬁc version of a SenML pack is composed of a set of features. The SenML version
number (bver ﬁeld) is then a bitmap of these features represented as an unsigned integer,
speciﬁcally the sum of, for each feature present, two taken to the power of the feature code of
that feature (Figure 1).

Figure 1: Feature Bitmap as a Sum (Sigma Symbol) of Feature Bits

where present(fc) is 1 if the feature with the feature code fc is present, 0 otherwise. (The
expression 2fc can be implemented as 1 << fc in C and related languages.)

2.1.  Discussion

Representing features as a bitmap within a number is quite eﬃcient as long as feature codes are
sparingly allocated (see also Section 6).

Compatibility with the existing SenML version number, 10 decimal (0b1010), requires reserving
four of the least signiﬁcant bit positions for the base version as described in Section 3. There is an
upper limit to the range of the integer numbers that can be represented in all SenML
representations: practical JSON limits this to 253-1
52 are available, one of which is taken by the feature deﬁned in Section 4, leaving 48 for
allocation. (The current version 10 (with all other feature codes unset) can be visualized as

. This means the feature codes 4 to

[RFC7493]

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9100

SenML Features and Versions

August 2021

0b00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001010.) For a lifetime of this scheme
of several decades, approximately two feature codes per year or fewer should be allocated. Note
that less generally applicable features can always be communicated via ﬁelds labeled with
names that end with the "_" character ("must-understand ﬁelds"). See
details.

Section 4.4 of [RFC8428]

 for

Most representations visible to engineers working with SenML will use decimal numbers. For
instance, 26 (0b11010, 0x1a) denotes a version that adds the "Secondary Units" feature (Section
4). This is slightly unwieldy but will be quickly memorized in practice.

As a general observation, ending up over time with dozens of individually selectable optional
extensions may lead to too many variants of what is supported by diﬀerent implementations,
reducing interoperability. So, in practice, it is still desirable to batch up extensions that are
expected to be supported together into a single feature bit, leading to a sort of hybrid between
completely independent extensions and a linear version scheme. This is also another reason why
a space of 48 remaining feature codes should suﬃce for a while.

2.2.  Updating Section 4.4 of RFC 8428

Section 4.4 of [RFC8428]

The last paragraph of
version numbers are totally ordered, i.e., that an implementation that understands version n also
always understands all versions k < n. If this ever was true for SenML versions before 10, it
certainly is no longer true with this speciﬁcation.

 may be read to give the impression that SenML

Any SenML pack that sets feature bits beyond the ﬁrst four will lead to a version number that
actually is greater than 10, so the requirement in
interoperability with version 10 implementations.

Section 4.4 of [RFC8428]

 will prevent false

Implementations that do implement feature bits beyond the ﬁrst four, i.e., versions greater than
10, will instead need to perform a bitwise comparison of the feature bitmap as described in this
speciﬁcation and ensure that all features indicated are understood before using the pack. For
example, an implementation that implements basic SenML (version number 10) plus only a
future feature code 5 will accept version number 42, but it would not be able to work with a pack
indicating version number 26 (base speciﬁcation plus feature code 4). (If the implementation
requires feature code 5 without being backwards compatible, it will accept 42, but not 10.)

3.  Features: Reserved0, Reserved1, Reserved2, Reserved3

, the feature codes 0 to 3 are already in use.

[RFC8428]
For SenML version 10 as described in
Reserved1 (1) and Reserved3 (3) are always present, and the features Reserved0 (0) and
Reserved2 (2) are always absent, i.e., the four least signiﬁcant bits set to 0b1010 indicate a
version number of 10 if no other feature is in use. These four reserved feature codes are not to be
used with any more speciﬁc semantics except in a speciﬁcation that updates the present
speciﬁcation. (Note that Reserved0 and Reserved2 could be used in such a speciﬁcation in a way
similar to that of feature codes 4 to 52 in the present speciﬁcation.)

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9100

SenML Features and Versions

August 2021

4.  Feature: Secondary Units

The feature "Secondary Units" (code number 4) indicates that secondary unit names
MAY
allowed by

 be used in the "u" ﬁeld of SenML records in addition to the primary unit names already

[RFC8428]

[RFC8798]

.

Note that the most basic use of this feature simply sets the SenML version number to 26 (10 + 24).

5.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of
interpretation of the SenML version number, which poses no additional security considerations
except for some potential for surprise that version numbers do not simply increase linearly.

 apply. This speciﬁcation provides structure to the

[RFC8428]

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created a new "SenML Features" subregistry within the "Sensor Measurement Lists
(SenML)" registry
and the columns:

 with the registration policy "Speciﬁcation Required"

[IANA.SENML]

[RFC8126]

•

Feature Code (an unsigned integer less than 53)

•

Feature Name (text)

•

Reference

To facilitate the use of feature names in programs, the designated expert is requested to ensure
that feature names are usable as identiﬁers in most programming languages, after lowercasing
the feature name in the registry entry and replacing blank space with underscores or hyphens,
and that they also are distinct in this form.

The initial content of this registry is as follows:

Feature Code

Feature Name

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

Reserved0

[RFC9100]

Reserved1

[RFC9100]

Reserved2

[RFC9100]

Reserved3

[RFC9100]

Secondary Units

[RFC9100]

[RFC8798]

Table 1: Features Deﬁned for SenML at the Time of Writing

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9100

SenML Features and Versions

August 2021

As the number of features that can be registered has a hard limit (48 codes left at the time of
writing), the designated expert is speciﬁcally instructed to maintain a frugal regime of code point
allocation, keeping code points available for SenML Features that are likely to be useful for non-
trivial subsets of the SenML ecosystem. Quantitatively, the expert could, for instance, steer the
allocation to a target of not allocating more than 10% of the remaining set per year.

Where the speciﬁcation of the feature code is provided in a document that is separate from the
speciﬁcation of the feature itself (as with feature code 4 above), both speciﬁcations should be
listed.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[C]

[CPLUSPLUS]

[IANA.SENML]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8428]

[RFC8798]

International Organization for Standardization "Information technology -
Programming languages - C" ISO/IEC 9899:2018, Fourth Edition
, June 2018,
<https://www.iso.org/standard/74528.html>

.

,

,

International Organization for Standardization "Programming languages - C++"
ISO/IEC 14882:2020, Sixth Edition
standard/79358.html>

<https://www.iso.org/

, December 2020,

.

,

,

,

IANA "Sensor Measurement Lists (SenML)" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/senml>

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

.

,

,

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

,
,
,
Jennings, C. Shelby, Z. Arkko, J. Keranen, A.
, August 2018,
,
Measurement Lists (SenML)" RFC 8428 DOI 10.17487/RFC8428
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8428>

C. Bormann "Sensor

, and

,

.

,

Bormann, C. "Additional Units for Sensor Measurement Lists (SenML)" RFC
,
8798 DOI 10.17487/RFC8798
rfc8798>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2020,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC7493]

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9100

SenML Features and Versions

August 2021

Bray, T., Ed. "The I-JSON Message Format" RFC 7493 DOI 10.17487/RFC7493
,
March 2015,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7493>

.

,

,

Acknowledgements

 proposed to use the version number as a bitmap and provided further input on this

Jaime Jiménez

Ari Keränen
speciﬁcation.
Document Shepherd.
implementable text suggestions that now form part of this speciﬁcation.
comments, one of which became the last paragraph of Section 2.1;
Section 2. Additional thanks go to the other IESG reviewers.

Elwyn Davies

 helped clarify the document by providing a review and acted as
 provided a detailed GENART review with directly

Éric Vyncke

 helped with

Rob Wilton

 supplied

Author's Address

Carsten Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-421-218-63921
 cabo@tzi.org

Bormann

Standards Track

Page 7

