Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9779
Standards Track
May 2025
2070-1721

R. Gandhi, Ed.
Cisco Systems, Inc.

C. Filsfils
Cisco Systems, Inc.

D. Voyer
Cisco Systems, Inc.

S. Salsano
Universita di Roma "Tor Vergata"

M. Chen
Huawei

RFC 9779
Performance Measurement for Segment Routing
Networks with the MPLS Data Plane

Abstract

This document specifies the application of the MPLS loss and delay measurement techniques
(originally defined in RFCs 6374, 7876, and 9341) within Segment Routing (SR) networks that
utilize the MPLS data plane, also referred to as Segment Routing over MPLS (SR-MPLS). SR
enables the forwarding of packets through an ordered list of instructions, known as segments,
which are imposed at the ingress node. This document defines the procedures and extensions
necessary to perform accurate measurement of packet loss and delay in SR-MPLS environments,
ensuring that network operators can effectively measure and maintain the quality of service
across their SR-based MPLS networks. This includes coverage of links and end-to-end SR-MPLS
paths, as well as SR Policies.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9779
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Requirements Language

2.2.  Abbreviations

2.3.  Reference Topology

3.  Overview

4.  Query and Response Messages

4.1.  Query Message for Links and SR-MPLS Policies

4.1.1.  Query Message for Links

4.1.2.  Query Message for SR-MPLS Policies

4.2.  Response Message for Links and SR-MPLS Policies

4.2.1.  One-Way Measurement Mode

4.2.2.  Two-Way Measurement Mode

4.2.3.  Loopback Measurement Mode

5.  Delay and Loss Measurement

5.1.  Delay Measurement Message

5.2.  Loss Measurement Message

5.3.  Combined Loss/Delay Measurement Message

5.4.  Counters

5.5.  Block Number for Counters

6.  TLV Extensions

6.1.  Return Path TLV Extension

6.1.1.  Return Path Sub-TLV Extension

6.2.  Block Number TLV Extension

3

4

4

4

5

5

6

6

6

6

7

7

8

8

9

9

9

10

10

11

12

12

13

13

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

7.  ECMP for SR-MPLS Policies

8.  Extended TE Link Metrics Advertisement

9.  Backwards Compatibility

10. Manageability Considerations

11. Security Considerations

12. IANA Considerations

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

14

15

15

15

15

16

17

17

17

19

19

19

[RFC8402]

, leverages the source routing paradigm and

Segment Routing (SR), as specified in
applies to both the Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) and Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6)
data planes. These are referred to as Segment Routing over MPLS (SR-MPLS) and Segment
Routing over IPv6 (SRv6), respectively. SR takes advantage of Equal-Cost Multipaths (ECMPs)
between source and transit nodes, between transit nodes, and between transit and destination
nodes. SR Policies, defined in
, are used to steer traffic through specific, user-defined
paths using a list of segments.

[RFC9256]

A comprehensive SR Performance Measurement toolset is one of the essential requirements for
measuring network performance to provide Service Level Agreements (SLAs).

 specifies protocol mechanisms to enable efficient and accurate measurement of

[RFC6374]
packet loss, one-way and two-way delay, as well as related metrics such as delay-variation in
MPLS networks.

 specifies mechanisms for sending and processing out-of-band responses over a UDP

[RFC7876]
return path when receiving query messages defined in
applied to SR-MPLS networks.

[RFC6374]

. These mechanisms can be

[RFC9341]
mechanism for packet loss measurement.

 defines the Alternate-Marking Method using Block Numbers as a data correlation

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

This document utilizes the mechanisms from
loss measurements in SR-MPLS networks. This includes coverage of links and end-to-end SR-
MPLS paths, as well as SR Policies.

[RFC6374] [RFC7876]
,

[RFC9341]

, and

 for delay and

[RFC6374]

 by defining Return Path and Block Number TLVs (see Section
This document extends
6) for delay and loss measurement in SR-MPLS networks. These TLVs can also be used in MPLS
Label Switched Paths (LSPs)
of MPLS LSPs is outside the scope of this document.

. However, the procedure for delay and loss measurement

[RFC3031]

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.2.  Abbreviations

ACH:

Associated Channel Header

DM:

Delay Measurement

ECMP:

Equal-Cost Multipath

G-ACh:

Generic Associated Channel

GAL:

Generic Associated Channel Label

LM:

Loss Measurement

LSE:

Label Stack Entry

MPLS:

Multiprotocol Label Switching

PSID:

Path Segment Identifier

SID:

Segment Identifier

SL:

Segment List

SR:

Segment Routing

SR-MPLS:

Segment Routing over MPLS

TC:

Traffic Class

TE:

Traffic Engineering

TTL:

Time to Live

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

URO: UDP Return Object

2.3.  Reference Topology

In the reference topology shown in Figure 1, the querier node Q1 initiates a query message, and
the responder node R1 transmits a response message for the query message received. The
response message may be sent back to the querier node Q1 on the same path (the same set of
links and nodes) or on a different path in the reverse direction from the path taken towards the
responder R1.

T1 is a transmit timestamp, and T4 is a receive timestamp; both are added by node Q1. T2 is a
receive timestamp, and T3 is a transmit timestamp; both are added by node R1.

Section 2.9.1 of [RFC6374]

SR is enabled with the MPLS data plane on nodes Q1 and R1. The nodes Q1 and R1 are connected
via a channel (
). The channel may be a directly connected link enabled
with MPLS (
physical interface, a virtual link, a Link Aggregation Group (LAG)
member link. The SR-MPLS path may be an SR-MPLS Policy
"head-end") with the destination to node R1 (called the "tail-end").

Section 2.9.1 of [RFC6374]

 on node Q1 (called the

) or an SR-MPLS path

. The link may be a

[IEEE802.1AX]

[RFC9256]

[RFC8402]

, or a LAG

          T1                T2
         /                   \
+-------+       Query         +-------+
|       | - - - - - - - - - ->|       |
|   Q1  |=====================|   R1  |
|       |<- - - - - - - - - - |       |
+-------+       Response      +-------+
         \                   /
          T4                T3
 Querier                       Responder

Figure 1: Reference Topology

3.  Overview

In this document, the procedures defined in
delay and loss measurement in SR-MPLS networks. Specifically, the one-way, two-way, and
round-trip delay measurements described in
application within SR-MPLS networks. Similarly, the packet loss measurement procedures
outlined in

 are extended for use in SR-MPLS networks.

Section 2.2 of [RFC6374]

Section 2.4 of [RFC6374]

[RFC6374] [RFC7876]
,

[RFC9341]

, and

 are further elaborated for

 are utilized for

Packet loss measurement using the Alternate-Marking Method defined in
the Block Number for data correlation. This is achieved by utilizing the Block Number TLV
extension defined in this document.

[RFC9341]

 may employ

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

In SR-MPLS networks, the query messages defined in
same path as the data traffic for links and end-to-end SR-MPLS paths. This is to collect both
transmit and receive timestamps for delay measurement and to collect both transmit and
receive traffic counters for loss measurement.

[RFC6374] MUST

 be transmitted along the

If it is desired in SR-MPLS networks that the same path (i.e., the same set of links and nodes)
between the querier and responder be used in both directions of the measurement, then this can
be achieved by using the Return Path TLV extension defined in this document.

The performance measurement procedures for links can be used to compute extended Traffic
Engineering (TE) metrics for delay and loss, as described herein. These metrics are advertised in
the network using the routing protocol extensions defined in
[RFC8571]
.

[RFC7471] [RFC8570]
,

, and

4.  Query and Response Messages

4.1.  Query Message for Links and SR-MPLS Policies

4.1.1.  Query Message for Links

The query message, as defined in
measurement. In each Label Stack Entry (LSE)
[RFC5082]
.
MUST

 be set to 255

[RFC6374]

, is sent over the links for both delay and loss

[RFC3032]

 in the MPLS label stack, the TTL value

4.1.2.  Query Message for SR-MPLS Policies

[RFC9256]

An SR-MPLS Policy Candidate-Path may contain a number of Segment Lists (SLs) (i.e., a stack of
. For delay and/or loss measurement for an end-to-end SR-MPLS Policy,
MPLS labels)
 be transmitted for every SL of the SR-MPLS Policy Candidate-Path.
the query messages
This is done by creating a separate session for each SL. Each query message of a session contains
an SR-MPLS label stack of the Candidate-Path, with the G-ACh Label (GAL) at the bottom of the
stack (with S=1) as shown in Figure 2. In each LSE in the MPLS label stack, the TTL value
MUST
be set to 255

[RFC5082]
.

MUST

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  Label(1)             | TC  |S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  Label(n)             | TC  |S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  GAL (value 13)       | TC  |1|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|0 0 0 1|Version| Reserved      |       Channel Type            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Example Query Message Header for an End-to-End SR-MPLS Policy

The fields 0001, Version, Reserved, and Channel Type shown in Figure 2 are specified in
[RFC5586]
.

The SR-MPLS label stack can be empty in the case of a one-hop SR-MPLS Policy with an Implicit
NULL label.

For an SR-MPLS Policy, to ensure that the query message is processed by the intended responder,
 containing an address of the responder can be
the Destination Address TLV (Type 129)
sent in the query messages. The responder that supports this TLV
 return Control Code 0x1
(Success)
Error 0x15: Invalid Destination Node Identifier

 if it is the intended destination for the query. Otherwise, it

[RFC6374]
.

[RFC6374]

[RFC6374]

 return

MUST

MUST

4.2.  Response Message for Links and SR-MPLS Policies

4.2.1.  One-Way Measurement Mode

Section 2.4 of [RFC6374]

In one-way measurement mode, as defined in
UDP Return Object (URO) TLV in the query message. This enables the querier to receive the out-
of-band response message encapsulated in an IP/UDP header sent to the IP address and UDP port
specified in the URO TLV. The URO TLV (Type 131) is defined in
 and includes the UDP-
Destination-Port and IP address. When the querier sets an IP address and a UDP port in the URO
TLV, the response message
destination address and the UDP port as the destination port. In addition, the Control Code in the
query message

 be sent to that IP address, with that IP address as the

 be set to Out-of-band Response Requested

, the querier can set the

[RFC6374]
.

[RFC7876]

MUST

MUST

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

4.2.2.  Two-Way Measurement Mode

 be sent back one of two ways: either they are sent back in-band on the same link, or

In the two-way measurement mode defined in
SHOULD
they are sent back on the same end-to-end SR-MPLS path (i.e., the same set of links and nodes) in
the reverse direction to the querier. This is done in order to perform accurate two-way delay
measurement.

, the response messages

Section 2.4 of [RFC6374]

For links, the response message as defined in
where the query message is received. In this case, the Control Code in the query message
be set to In-band Response Requested

 is sent back on the same incoming link
MUST

[RFC6374]
.

[RFC6374]

For end-to-end SR-MPLS paths, the responder transmits the response message (see the example
as shown in Figure 2) on a specific return SR-MPLS path. In the query message, the querier can
request that the responder send the response message back on a given return path using the
MPLS Label Stack Sub-TLV in the Return Path TLV defined in this document.

4.2.3.  Loopback Measurement Mode

 is used to measure round-
The loopback measurement mode defined in
[RFC6374]
trip delay for a bidirectional circular path
 in SR-MPLS networks. In this mode for SR-
MPLS, the received query messages are not punted out of the fast path in forwarding (i.e., to the
slow path or control plane) at the responder. In other words, the responder does not process the
payload or generate response messages. The loopback function simply returns the received
query message to the querier without responder modifications

Section 2.8 of [RFC6374]

[RFC6374]
.

The loopback mode is done by generating "queries" with the Response flag set to 1 and adding
the Loopback Request object (Type 3)
Figure 3, carries both the forward and reverse path labels in the MPLS header. The GAL is still
carried at the bottom of the label stack (with S=1).

. In query messages, the label stack, as shown in

[RFC6374]

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  Label(1)             | TC  |S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  Label(n)             | TC  |S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  Reverse Path Label(1)| TC  |S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  Reverse Path Label(n)| TC  |S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  GAL (value 13)       | TC  |1|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|0 0 0 1|Version| Reserved      |       Channel Type            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Example Query Message Header for an End-to-End SR-MPLS Policy in the Loopback
Measurement Mode

5.  Delay and Loss Measurement

5.1.  Delay Measurement Message

[RFC6374]

, MPLS Delay Measurement (DM) query and response messages use the

As defined in
Associated Channel Header (ACH) (with value 0x000C for delay measurement). The value
identifies the message type and message payload that follow the ACH, as defined in
[RFC6374]
MPLS Policies.

Section 3.2 of
. For delay measurement, the same ACH value is used for both links and end-to-end SR-

5.2.  Loss Measurement Message

The Loss Measurement (LM) protocol can perform two distinct kinds of loss measurement as
described in

Section 2.9.8 of [RFC6374]
.

•

In the inferred mode, LM will measure the loss of specially generated test messages to infer
the approximate data plane loss level. Inferred mode LM provides only approximate loss
accounting.

•

In the direct mode, LM will directly measure data plane packet loss. Direct mode LM
provides perfect loss accounting but may require hardware support.

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

[RFC6374]

, MPLS LM query and response messages use the ACH (with value

As defined in
0x000A for direct loss measurement or value 0x000B for inferred loss measurement). This value
identifies the message type and message payload that follow the ACH, as defined in
Section 3.1 of
[RFC6374]
MPLS Policies.

. For loss measurement, the same ACH value is used for both links and end-to-end SR-

5.3.  Combined Loss/Delay Measurement Message

[RFC6374]

, combined LM/DM query and response messages use the ACH (with

As defined in
value 0x000D for direct loss and delay measurement or value 0x000E for inferred loss and delay
measurement). The value identifies the message type and the message payload that follows the
ACH, as defined in
ACH value is used for both links and end-to-end SR-MPLS Policies.

. For combined loss and delay measurement, the same

Section 3.3 of [RFC6374]

5.4.  Counters

The Path Segment Identifier (PSID)
the traffic flow under measurement, in order to account for received traffic on the egress node
of the SR-MPLS Policy. In the direct mode, the PSID in the received query message (as shown in
Figure 4) can be used to associate the received traffic counter on the responder to detect the
transmit packet loss for the end-to-end SR-MPLS Policy.

 be carried in the received data packet for

[RFC9545] MUST

In the inferred mode, the PSID in the received query messages (as shown in Figure 4) can be
used to count the received query messages on the responder to detect the transmit packet loss
for an end-to-end SR-MPLS Policy.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  Label(1)             | TC  |S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  Label(n)             | TC  |S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  PSID                 | TC  |S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  GAL (value 13)       | TC  |1|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|0 0 0 1|Version| Reserved      |       Channel Type            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: Example with the PSID for SR-MPLS Policy

The fields 0001, Version, Reserved, and Channel Type shown in Figure 4 are specified in
[RFC5586]
.

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

Different values of the PSID can be used per Candidate-Path to account for received traffic and to
measure packet loss at the Candidate-Path level. Similarly, different values of the PSID can be
used per Segment List (SL) of the Candidate-Path for accounting received traffic to measure
packet loss at the SL level. The same value of the PSID can be used for all SLs of the SR-MPLS
Policy to measure packet loss at the SR-MPLS Policy level.

5.5.  Block Number for Counters

The packet loss measurement using the Alternate-Marking Method defined in
the block number for data correlation for the traffic flow under measurement. As defined in
Section 3.1 of [RFC9341]
, the block number is used to divide the traffic flow into consecutive
blocks and count the number of packets transmitted and received in each block for loss
measurement.

[RFC9341]

 may use

Section 4.3 of [RFC9341]

As described in
exchange values of counters on the nodes for loss measurement. That solution is further
described in this document using the LM messages defined in

, a protocol-based distributed solution can be used to

[RFC6374]
.

The querier node assigns a block number to the block of data packets of the traffic flow under
measurement. The querier counts the number of packets transmitted in each block. The
mechanism for the assignment of the block number is a local decision on the querier and is
outside the scope of this document.

As an example, the querier can use the procedure defined in
the data packets of the traffic flow under measurement. The responder counts the number of
received packets in each block based on the marking in the received data packets. The querier
and responder maintain separate sets of transmit and receive counters for each marking. The
marking can be used as a block number, or a separate block number can be incremented when
the marking changes. Other methods can be defined for alternate marking of the data packets of
the traffic flow under measurement to assign a block number for the counters.

 for alternate marking of

[RFC9714]

The LM query and response messages defined in
the block of data packets transmitted with the previous marking, whereas data packets carry
alternate marking. Specifically, LM query and response messages carry the transmit and receive
counters (which are currently not incrementing) along with their block number to correlate for
loss measurement.

 are used to measure packet loss for

[RFC6374]

Section 4.3 of [RFC9341]
 specifies that: "The assumption of this BN mechanism is that the
measurement nodes are time synchronized." However, this is not necessary, as the block
number on the responder can be synchronized based on the received LM query messages.

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

6.  TLV Extensions

6.1.  Return Path TLV Extension

In the two-way measurement mode, the responder may transmit the response message on a
specific return path, for example, in an ECMP environment. The querier can request in the
query message for the responder to send a response message back on a given return path (e.g., a
co-routed bidirectional path). This allows the responder to avoid creating and maintaining
additional states (containing return paths) for the sessions.

The querier may not be directly reachable from the responder in a network. In this case, the
querier

 send its reachability path information to the responder using the Return Path TLV.

MUST

 defines query and response messages that can include one or more optional TLVs.

[RFC6374]
This document defines the Return Path TLV (5) to carry return path information in query
messages. The Return Path TLV is specific to a measurement session. The format of the Return
Path TLV is shown in Figure 5 below:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  Type = 5     |    Length     |      Reserved                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Return Path Sub-TLV                        |
.                                                               .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: Return Path TLV

The Length is a one-byte field and is equal to the length of the Return Path Sub-TLV and the
Reserved field in bytes. The Length

 be 0 or 1.

MUST NOT

MUST

 only insert one Return Path TLV in the query message. The responder that

The Return Path TLV is defined in the "Mandatory TLV Type" registry space
querier
supports this TLV
TLVs if present. The responder that supports this TLV also
on the return path specified in the Return Path TLV. The responder also
Path TLV in the response message.

 only process the first Return Path TLV and ignore the other Return Path
 send the response message back

 add a Return

[RFC6374]

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

. The

The Reserved field

MUST

 be set to 0 and

MUST

 be ignored on the receive side.

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

6.1.1.  Return Path Sub-TLV Extension

The Return Path TLV contains a Sub-TLV to carry the return path. The format of the MPLS Label
 be in network order.
Stack Sub-TLV is shown in Figure 6. The label entries in the Sub-TLV
The MPLS Label Stack Sub-TLV in the Return Path TLV is of the following type:

MUST

•

Type (value 1): MPLS Label Stack of the Return Path

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    Type=1     |    Length     |      Reserved                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  Label(1)             | TC  |S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                  Label(n)             | TC  |1|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: MPLS Label Stack Sub-TLV in the Return Path TLV

The MPLS label stack contains a list of 32-bit LSEs that includes a 20-bit label value, an 8-bit TTL
value, a 3-bit TC value, and a 1-bit End of Stack (S) field. An MPLS Label Stack Sub-TLV may carry
a stack of labels or a Binding SID label

 of the Return SR-MPLS Policy.

[RFC8402]

The Length is a one-byte field and is equal to the length of the label stack field and the Reserved
field in bytes. The Length

 be 0 or 1.

MUST NOT

MUST

The Return Path TLV
Return Path Sub-TLV
Sub-TLV
MUST
TLVs if present. The responder that supports this Sub-TLV
on the return path specified in the Return Path Sub-TLV.

MUST

 only process the first Return Path Sub-TLV and ignore the other Return Path Sub-
 send the response message back

MUST

 carry only one Return Path Sub-TLV. The MPLS Label Stack in the
 contain at least one MPLS Label. The responder that supports this

The Reserved field

MUST

 be set to 0 and

MUST

 be ignored on the receive side.

6.2.  Block Number TLV Extension

[RFC6374]
 defines query and response messages that can include one or more optional TLVs.
This document defines the Block Number TLV (6) to carry (8-bit) Block Number of the traffic
counters in the LM query and response messages. The format of the Block Number TLV is shown
in Figure 7:

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    Type=6     |    Length     | Reserved    |R| Block Number  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: Block Number TLV

The Length is a one-byte field and is equal to 2 bytes.

MUST

 only insert one Block Number TLV in the query message to identify the Block

The Block Number TLV is defined in the "Mandatory TLV Type" registry space
querier
Number for the traffic counters in the forward direction. The responder that supports this TLV
 only insert one Block Number TLV in the response message to identify the Block Number
MUST
 return the first Block
for the traffic counters in the reverse direction. The responder also
Number TLV from the query message and ignore the other Block Number TLVs if present. The
Block Number TLV is specific to a measurement session. The R flag is used to indicate the query
and response message direction associated with the Block Number. The R flag
 be clear in
the query message for the Block Number associated with Counter 1 and Counter 2, and set in the
response message for the Block Number associated with Counter 3 and Counter 4.

[RFC6374]

MUST

MUST

. The

The Reserved field

MUST

 be set to 0 and

MUST

 be ignored on the receive side.

7.  ECMP for SR-MPLS Policies

The SLs of an SR-MPLS Policy can have ECMPs between the source and transit nodes, between
[RFC8402]
transit nodes, and between transit and destination nodes. Usage of a node-SID
SLs of an SR-MPLS Policy can result in ECMP paths. In addition, usage of an Anycast-SID
[RFC8402]
part of that anycast group. The query and response messages are sent to traverse different ECMP
paths to measure the delay of each ECMP path of an SL.

 by the SLs of an SR-MPLS Policy can result in ECMP paths via transit nodes that are

 by the

The forwarding plane has various hashing functions available to forward packets on specific
ECMP paths. For end-to-end SR-MPLS Policy delay measurement, different entropy label values
[RFC6790]
function in the forwarding plane to influence the ECMP path taken by them.

 can be used in query and response messages to take advantage of the hashing

The considerations for loss measurement for different ECMP paths of an SR-MPLS Policy are
outside the scope of this document.

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

8.  Extended TE Link Metrics Advertisement

The extended TE metrics for link delay (namely, average delay, minimum delay, maximum delay,
and delay-variance) and packet loss can be computed using the performance measurement
procedures described in this document and can be advertised in the routing domain as follows:

•

For OSPF, IS-IS, and the Border Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS), the protocol
extensions defined in
advertising the extended TE link delay and loss metrics in the network.

[RFC7471] [RFC8570]
,

, respectively, are used for

[RFC8571]

, and

•

The extended TE link delay and loss metrics are advertised for Layer-2 LAG bundle member
links in OSPF
[RFC7471]

 using the same protocol extensions defined in

, respectively.

[RFC8570]

[RFC9356]

[RFC8668]

 and IS-IS

 and

•

The advertised delay-variance metric is computed as Packet Delay Variation (PDV), as
described in

Section 4.2 of [RFC5481]

.

9.  Backwards Compatibility

The procedures defined in this document are backwards compatible with the procedures
defined in
the new Mandatory TLV Types defined in this document, it will return Error 0x17: Unsupported
Mandatory TLV Object as per

 at both the querier and the responder. If the responder does not support

[RFC6374]
.

[RFC6374]

10.  Manageability Considerations

The manageability considerations described in
are applicable to this specification.

Section 7 of [RFC6374]

 and

Section 6 of [RFC7876]

11.  Security Considerations

The security considerations specified in
and

[RFC9341]

 also apply to the procedures described in this document.

[RFC6374] [RFC7471] [RFC8570] [RFC8571] [RFC7876]
,

,

,

,

,

The procedure defined in this document is intended for deployment in a single operator
administrative domain. As such, the querier node, the responder node, the forward path, and the
return paths are provisioned by the operator for the probe session. It is assumed that the
operator has verified the integrity of the forward and return paths of the probe packets.

The Return Path TLV extensions defined in this document may be used for potential address
spoofing. For example, a query message may carry a return path that has a destination that is
not local at the querier. To prevent such possible attacks, the responder may drop the query
messages when it cannot determine whether the return path has the destination local at the
querier. The querier may send a proper source address in the Source Address TLV. The
responder can use this to make that determination, for example, by checking the access control
list provisioned by the operator.

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

12.  IANA Considerations

IANA has allocated values for the following Mandatory TLV Types
Loss/Delay Measurement TLV Object" registry contained within the "Generic Associated Channel
(G-ACh) Parameters" registry group:

 from the "MPLS

[RFC6374]

Code

Description

Reference

5

6

Return Path

RFC 9779

Block Number

RFC 9779

Table 1: MPLS Loss/Delay Measurement
TLV Types

The Block Number TLV is carried in the query and response messages, and the Return Path TLV
is carried in the query messages.

IANA has created the "Return Path Sub-TLV Types" registry. All code points are allocated per the
[RFC8126]
registration policies shown in Table 2 (see

).

Value

Description

Reference

1 - 175

IETF Review

RFC 9779

176 - 239

First Come First Served

RFC 9779

240 - 251

Experimental Use

RFC 9779

252 - 254

Private Use

RFC 9779

Table 2: Return Path Sub-TLV Types Registry

This document defines the following values in the "Return Path Sub-TLV Types" registry:

Value Description

Reserved

0

1

MPLS Label Stack of the Return Path

RFC 9779

Reference

RFC 9779

255

Reserved

RFC 9779

Table 3: Return Path Sub-TLV Types

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6374]

[RFC7876]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9341]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

S. Bryant "Packet Loss and Delay Measurement for MPLS

Frost, D.
,
 and
Networks" RFC 6374 DOI 10.17487/RFC6374
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6374>

.

, September 2011,

<https://www.rfc-

,

S. Soni "UDP Return Path for Packet Loss and
Bryant, S. Sivabalan, S.
Delay Measurement for MPLS Networks" RFC 7876 DOI 10.17487/RFC7876
,
2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7876>

, and

,

,

.

, July

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Fioccola, G., Ed. Cociglio, M. Mirsky, G. Mizrahi, T.
Marking Method" RFC 9341 DOI 10.17487/RFC9341
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9341>

,
,

,

,

.

T. Zhou "Alternate-

, and
, December 2022,

<https://

,

13.2.  Informative References

[RFC3031]

[RFC3032]

[RFC5082]

[RFC5481]

[RFC5586]

,

Rosen, E. Viswanathan, A.
Architecture" RFC 3031 DOI 10.17487/RFC3031
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc3031>
.

, and

R. Callon "Multiprotocol Label Switching

,

, January 2001,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Rosen, E. Tappan, D. Fedorkow, G. Rekhter, Y. Farinacci, D. Li, T.
"MPLS Label Stack Encoding" RFC 3032 DOI 10.17487/RFC3032
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3032>

.

,

,

,

,

,

, and

A. Conta
, January 2001,

,

,

Gill, V. Heasley, J. Meyer, D. Savola, P., Ed.
TTL Security Mechanism (GTSM)" RFC 5082 DOI 10.17487/RFC5082
,
2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5082>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

C. Pignataro "The Generalized

, October

Morton, A.
 and
5481 DOI 10.17487/RFC5481
,
rfc5481>

.

,

B. Claise "Packet Delay Variation Applicability Statement" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2009,

,

Bocci, M., Ed. Vigoureux, M., Ed.
Channel" RFC 5586 DOI 10.17487/RFC5586
editor.org/info/rfc5586>

, and

,

,

.

S. Bryant, Ed. "MPLS Generic Associated

,

, June 2009,

<https://www.rfc-

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

[RFC6790]

[RFC7471]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8402]

[RFC8570]

[RFC8571]

[RFC8668]

[RFC9256]

[RFC9356]

[RFC9545]

[RFC9714]

[IEEE802.1AX]

,

Kompella, K. Drake, J. Amante, S. Henderickx, W.
Entropy Labels in MPLS Forwarding" RFC 6790 DOI 10.17487/RFC6790
November 2012,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6790>

, and

L. Yong "The Use of

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

S. Previdi "OSPF Traffic
Giacalone, S. Ward, D. Drake, J. Atlas, A.
Engineering (TE) Metric Extensions" RFC 7471 DOI 10.17487/RFC7471
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7471>
2015,
.

, and

,

,

,

,

, March

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

,

.

, and

R.
, July

,

Q. Wu "IS-
Ginsberg, L., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Giacalone, S. Ward, D. Drake, J.
,
IS Traffic Engineering (TE) Metric Extensions" RFC 8570 DOI 10.17487/RFC8570
,
March 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8570>

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

,

Ginsberg, L., Ed. Previdi, S. Wu, Q. Tantsura, J.
,
(BGP-LS) Advertisement of IGP Traffic Engineering Performance Metric
Extensions" RFC 8571 DOI 10.17487/RFC8571
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8571>

, March 2019,

, and

,

.

<https://www.rfc-

C. Filsfils "BGP - Link State

,

,

Ginsberg, L., Ed. Bashandy, A. Filsfils, C. Nanduri, M.
Layer 2 Bundle Member Link Attributes in IS-IS" RFC 8668 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8668

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8668>

E. Aries "Advertising
, and
,

, December 2019,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Voyer, D. Bogdanov, A.
Routing Policy Architecture" RFC 9256 DOI 10.17487/RFC9256
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9256>

, and

,
,

,
,

.

P. Mattes "Segment
,
, July 2022,

Talaulikar, K., Ed.
Attributes in OSPF" RFC 9356 DOI 10.17487/RFC9356
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9356>

 and
,

,

,

.

P. Psenak "Advertising Layer 2 Bundle Member Link

, January 2023,

<https://

,

Cheng, W., Ed. Li, H. Li, C., Ed. Gandhi, R.
,
Identifier in MPLS-Based Segment Routing Networks" RFC 9545 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9545

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9545>

R. Zigler "Path Segment

, February 2024,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Cheng, W., Ed. Min, X., Ed. Zhou, T. Dai, J.
MPLS Performance Measurement with the Alternate-Marking Method" RFC
9714 DOI 10.17487/RFC9714
,
rfc9714>

Y. Peleg "Encapsulation for

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2025,

, and

,

.

,

,

,

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks - Link
Aggregation" IEEE Std 802.1AX-2020 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2020.9105034
,
2020,

<https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2020.9105034>

,

.

, May

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

Acknowledgments

 and

, and

Haowei Shi

Ianik Semco

Thierry Couture

 for the discussions on the use

Patrick Khordoc Ruby Lin

The authors would like to thank
cases for performance measurement in segment routing networks. The authors would like to
thank
,
this document. The authors would like to thank
useful comments and suggestions. The authors would also like to thank
Aldrin Tarek Saad
Shen
Tony Li
review;
Van de Velde Paul Wouters Éric Vyncke Murray Kucherawy John Scudder
for the IESG review.

Zhaohui Zhang
 for the SECDIR review;
Dhruv Dhody

 for implementing the mechanisms defined in
 for providing many

 for the MPLS expert review;
Ned Smith

 for the RTGDIR early review;
Roni Even

 for shepherd's review;
Marcus Ihlar

 for their review comments. Thanks to

 for the OPSDIR review; and

 for the TSV-ART review;

Huaimo Chen Yimin

Stewart Bryant Sam

 for the Gen-ART

,
, and

Greg Mirsky

Xufeng Liu

Rajiv Asati

Xiao Min

Gunter

, and

, and

 and

,
,

Roman Danyliw

,

,

,

,

Contributors

Sagar Soni
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

sagsoni@cisco.com

Zafar Ali
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

zali@cisco.com

Pier Luigi Ventre
CNIT
Italy
Email:

pierluigi.ventre@cnit.it

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Rakesh Gandhi (
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Canada
Email:

rgandhi@cisco.com

Clarence Filsfils
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

cfilsfil@cisco.com

Daniel Voyer
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Canada
Email:

davoyer@cisco.com

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9779

Performance Measurement for SR-MPLS

May 2025

Stefano Salsano
Universita di Roma "Tor Vergata"
Italy
Email:

stefano.salsano@uniroma2.it

Mach(Guoyi) Chen
Huawei
Email:

mach.chen@huawei.com

Gandhi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

