Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9534
Standards Track
January 2024
2070-1721
Z. Li
China Mobile

J. Guo
ZTE Corp.

T. Zhou
Huawei

G. Mirsky
Ericsson

R. Gandhi
Cisco Systems, Inc.

RFC 9534
Simple Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol
Extensions for Performance Measurement on a Link
Aggregation Group

Abstract

This document extends Simple Two-way Active Measurement Protocol (STAMP) to implement
performance measurement on every member link of a Link Aggregation Group (LAG). Knowing
the measured metrics of each member link of a LAG enables operators to enforce a performance-
based traffic steering policy across the member links.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9534
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9534

STAMP PM on LAG

January 2024

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Micro Sessions on a LAG

3.  Member Link Validation

3.1.  Micro-session ID TLV

3.2.  Micro STAMP-Test Procedures

4.  Applicability

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

5

6

6

6

6

6

7

7

8

A Link Aggregation Group (LAG), as defined in
multiple physical links into a single logical link. This logical link offers higher bandwidth and
better resiliency because, if one of the physical member links fails, the aggregate logical link can
continue to forward traffic over the remaining operational physical member links.

, provides mechanisms to combine

[IEEE802.1AX]

Usually, when forwarding traffic over a LAG, a hash-based mechanism is used to load balance the
traffic across the LAG member links. The link delay might vary between member links because of
different transport paths, especially when a LAG is used in a wide area network. To provide low-
latency service for time-sensitive traffic, we need to explicitly steer the traffic across the LAG
member links based on the link delay, loss, and so on. That requires a solution to measure the
performance metrics of each member link of a LAG. Hence, the measured performance metrics
can work together with
traffic steering.

Layer 2 bundle member link attributes advertisement [RFC8668]

 for

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9534

STAMP PM on LAG

January 2024

,

 is an active measurement method, and it can complement passive and hybrid

[RFC7799] Simple Two-way Active Measurement Protocol

According to the classifications in
(STAMP) [RFC8762]
methods. It provides a mechanism to measure both one-way and round-trip performance
metrics, like delay, delay variation, and packet loss. A STAMP test session over the LAG can be
used to measure the performance of a member link using a specially constructed 5-tuple. The
session can be used to measure an average of some or all member links of the LAG by varying
one or more elements of that 5-tuple. However, without the knowledge of each member link, a
STAMP test session cannot measure the performance of every physical member link.

This document extends STAMP to implement performance measurement on every member link
of a LAG. It can provide the same metrics as
[RFC4656]
delay, jitter, and packet loss.

Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP) [RFC5357]

One-Way Active Measurement Protocol (OWAMP)

 can measure, such as

 and

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Micro Sessions on a LAG

This document addresses the scenario where a LAG directly connects two nodes. An example of
this is in Figure 1, where the LAG consisting of four links connects nodes A and B. The goal is to
measure the performance of each link of the LAG.

                  +---+                       +---+
                  |   |-----------------------|   |
                  | A |-----------------------| B |
                  |   |-----------------------|   |
                  |   |-----------------------|   |
                  +---+                       +---+

Figure 1: Performance Measurement on a LAG

To measure the performance metrics of every member link of a LAG, multiple sessions (one
session for each member link) need to be established between the two endpoints that are
connected by the LAG. These sessions are called "micro sessions" in the remainder of this
document. Although micro sessions are in fact STAMP sessions established on member links of a
LAG, test packets of micro sessions

 carry member link information for validation.

MUST

All micro sessions of a LAG share the same Sender IP Address and Receiver IP Address. As for the
UDP port, the micro sessions may share the same Sender Port and Receiver Port pair or each
micro session may be configured with a different Sender Port and Receiver Port pair. From the
operational point of view, the former is simpler and is

.
RECOMMENDED

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9534

STAMP PM on LAG

January 2024

MUST

Test packets of a micro session
For example, when a micro STAMP Session-Sender receives a reflected test packet, it checks
whether the test packet is from the expected member link. The member link information is
encoded in the Micro-session ID TLV introduced in Section 3, which also provides a detailed
description about member link validation.

 carry the member link information for validation checks.

A micro STAMP Session-Sender
 to request
information from the micro Session-Reflector. This timestamp might be important for the micro
Session-Sender, as it improves the accuracy of network delay measurement by minimizing the
impact of egress queuing delays on the measurement.

Follow-Up Telemetry TLV [RFC8972]

 include the

MAY

3.  Member Link Validation

MUST

 carry member link information in the Micro-session ID TLV introduced in this

Test packets
section for validation checks. The micro Session-Sender verifies whether the test packet is
received from the expected member link. It also verifies whether the packet is sent from the
expected member link at the Reflector side. The micro Session-Reflector verifies whether the test
packet is received from the expected member link.

3.1.  Micro-session ID TLV

STAMP TLV mechanism [RFC8972]

The
TLVs. This document defines the TLV Type (value 11) for the Micro-session ID TLV that carries the
micro STAMP Session-Sender member link identifier and Session-Reflector member link
identifier in the Sender Micro-session ID field and the Reflector Micro-session ID field,
respectively. The format of the Micro-session ID TLV is shown as follows:

 extends STAMP test packets with one or more optional

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |STAMP TLV Flags|  Type = 11    |           Length              |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |     Sender Micro-session ID   |   Reflector Micro-session ID  |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Micro-session ID TLV

Type (1 octet in length):

This field is defined to indicate this TLV is a Micro-session ID TLV. Value

11 has been allocated by IANA (Section 5).

Length (2 octets in length):
The Length field value

MUST

 be 4.

This field is defined to carry the length of the Value field in octets.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9534

STAMP PM on LAG

January 2024

Sender Micro-session ID (2 octets in length):

This field is defined to carry the LAG member link

identifier of the Sender side. In the future, it may be used generically to cover use cases
beyond LAGs. The value of this field
Sender.

 be unique within a STAMP session at the Session-

MUST

Reflector Micro-session ID (2 octets in length):

This field is defined to carry the LAG member

link identifier of the Reflector side. In the future, it may be used generically to cover use cases
beyond LAGs. The value of this field
Reflector.

 be unique within a STAMP session at the Session-

MUST

3.2.  Micro STAMP-Test Procedures

The micro STAMP-Test reuses the procedures as defined in Section 4 of
the following additions.

STAMP [RFC8762]

 with

The micro STAMP Session-Sender
link with which the session is associated. The mapping between a micro STAMP session and the
Sender/Reflector member link identifiers can be configured by augmenting the
[STAMP-YANG]
. The detailed augmentation is not in the scope of this document.

 send the micro STAMP-Test packets over the member

STAMP YANG

MUST

 set the Sender Micro-session
When sending a test packet, the micro STAMP Session-Sender
ID field with the member link identifier associated with the micro STAMP session. If the Session-
Sender knows the Reflector member link identifier, the Reflector Micro-session ID field
 be
set. Otherwise, the Reflector Micro-session ID field
identifier can be obtained from preconfiguration or learned from data plane (e.g., the reflected
test packet). This document does not specify the way to obtain the Reflector member link
identifier.

MUST
 be zero. The Reflector member link

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be discarded. If the Reflector Micro-session ID is zero, it will not be verified. If all

When the micro STAMP Session-Reflector receives a test packet, if the Reflector Micro-session ID
is not zero, the micro STAMP Session-Reflector
 use the Reflector member link identifier to
check whether it is associated with the micro STAMP session. If the validation fails, the test
packet
validations passed, the Session-Reflector sends a reflected test packet to the Session-Sender. The
micro STAMP Session-Reflector
 put the Sender and Reflector member link identifiers that
are associated with the micro STAMP session in the Sender Micro-session ID and Reflector Micro-
session ID fields, respectively. The Sender member link identifier is copied from the received test
packet.

MUST

When receiving a reflected test packet, the micro Session-Sender
session ID to validate whether the reflected test packet is correctly received from the expected
member link. If the validation fails, the test packet
MUST
fails, the test packet

 use the Reflector Micro-session ID to validate the Reflector's behavior. If the validation

 use the Sender Micro-

 be discarded. The micro Session-Sender

 be discarded.

MUST

MUST

MUST

Two modes of the STAMP Session-Reflector, stateless and stateful, characterize the expected
STAMP [RFC8762]
behavior as described in Section 4 of
stateless and stateful modes. However, the micro STAMP-Test does not introduce any additional
state to STAMP, i.e., any procedure with regard to the Micro-session ID is stateless.

. The micro STAMP-Test also supports both

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9534

STAMP PM on LAG

January 2024

4.  Applicability

The micro STAMP Session-Sender sends micro Session-Sender packets with the Micro-session ID
TLV. The micro Session-Reflector checks whether a test packet is received from the member link
associated with the correct micro STAMP session if the Reflector Micro-session ID field is set.
When reflecting, the micro STAMP Session-Reflector copies the Sender Micro-session ID from the
received micro Session-Sender packet to the micro Session-Reflector packet and sets the Reflector
Micro-session ID field with the member link identifier that is associated with the micro STAMP
session. When receiving the micro Session-Reflector packet, the micro Session-Sender uses the
Sender Micro-session ID to check whether the packet is received from the member link
associated with the correct micro STAMP session. The micro Session-Sender also use the Reflector
Micro-session ID to validate the Reflector's behavior.

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has allocated the following STAMP TLV Type for the Micro-session ID TLV in the "STAMP
TLV Types" registry

[RFC8972]
:

Value Description

Reference

11

Micro-session ID

This Document

Table 1: New STAMP TLV Type

6.  Security Considerations

The STAMP extension defined in this document is intended for deployment in the LAG scenario
where Session-Sender and Session-Reflector are directly connected. As such, it's assumed that a
node involved in a STAMP operation has previously verified the integrity of the LAG connection
and the identity of its one-hop-away peer node.

This document does not introduce any additional security issues, and the security mechanisms
 apply in this document.
defined in

[RFC8972]

[RFC8762]

 and

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9534

STAMP PM on LAG

January 2024

[RFC8174]

[RFC8762]

[RFC8972]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Mirsky, G. Jun, G. Nydell, H.
Measurement Protocol" RFC 8762 DOI 10.17487/RFC8762
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8762>

R. Foote "Simple Two-Way Active
,
.

, and

,

,

,

, March 2020,

<https://

,

E. Ruffini "Simple
,
Mirsky, G. Min, X. Nydell, H. Foote, R. Masputra, A.
,
Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol Optional Extensions" RFC 8972 DOI
10.17487/RFC8972
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8972>

, January 2021,

, and

,

,

,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[IEEE802.1AX]

[RFC4656]

[RFC5357]

[RFC7799]

[RFC8668]

[STAMP-YANG]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks -- Link
Aggregation" IEEE Std 802.1AX-2020 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2020.9105034
,
2020,

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9105034>

,

.

, May

,

Shalunov, S. Teitelbaum, B. Karp, A. Boote, J.
,
Active Measurement Protocol (OWAMP)" RFC 4656 DOI 10.17487/RFC4656
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4656>
September 2006,

M. Zekauskas "A One-way
, and
,
,

,

,

,

.

,

Hedayat, K. Krzanowski, R. Morton, A. Yum, K.
Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)" RFC 5357 DOI 10.17487/RFC5357
October 2008,

J. Babiarz "A Two-Way
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5357>

, and
,

,

,

,

,

.

Morton, A. "Active and Passive Metrics and Methods (with Hybrid Types In-
Between)" RFC 7799 DOI 10.17487/RFC7799
,
editor.org/info/rfc7799>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2016,

,
,

.

,

Ginsberg, L., Ed. Bashandy, A. Filsfils, C. Nanduri, M.
Layer 2 Bundle Member Link Attributes in IS-IS" RFC 8668 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8668

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8668>

E. Aries "Advertising
, and
,

, December 2019,

,

,

,

,

.

Mirsky, G. Min, X. Luo, W. S.

,

,

, and

R. Gandhi "Simple Two-way Active

Measurement Protocol (STAMP) Data Model" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/
draft-ietf-ippm-stamp-yang-12
, 5 November 2023,
doc/html/draft-ietf-ippm-stamp-yang-12>

.

,
,

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
for the valuable comments to this work.

Mach Chen Min Xiao Fang Xin Marcus Ihlar
,

,

,

, and

Richard Foote

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9534

STAMP PM on LAG

January 2024

Authors' Addresses

Zhenqiang Li
China Mobile
No. 29 Finance Avenue
Xicheng District
Beijing
China
Email:

 li_zhenqiang@hotmail.com

Tianran Zhou
Huawei
China
Email:

 zhoutianran@huawei.com

Jun Guo
ZTE Corp.
China
Email:

 guo.jun2@zte.com.cn

Greg Mirsky
Ericsson
United States of America
Email:

 gregimirsky@gmail.com

Rakesh Gandhi
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Canada
Email:

 rgandhi@cisco.com

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

