Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9734
Standards Track
February 2025
2070-1721
R. Mahy
Rohan Mahy Consulting Services

RFC 9734
X.509 Certificate Extended Key Usage (EKU) for
Instant Messaging URIs

Abstract

RFC 5280 specifies several extended key purpose identifiers (KeyPurposeIds) for X.509
certificates. This document defines an Instant Messaging (IM) identity KeyPurposeId for inclusion
in the Extended Key Usage (EKU) extension of X.509 v3 public key certificates

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9734
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Mahy

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9734

extendedKeyUsage for IM URIs

February 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

3.  The IM URI EKU

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

2

3

3

3

3

3

4

4

5

5

Instant Messaging (IM) systems using the Messaging Layer Security (MLS)
incorporate per-client identity certificate credentials. A subjectAltName in these certificates can
be an IM URI
for example.

 or Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP) URI

[RFC6121]
,

[RFC9420]

[RFC3860]

 protocol can

Organizations may be unwilling to issue certificates for an IM client using a general
KeyPurposeId, such as id-kp-serverAuth or id-kp-clientAuth, because of the risk that such
certificates could be abused in a cross-protocol attack.

An explanation of MLS credentials as they apply to IM is described in
credentials are expected to be heavily used in the More Instant Messaging Interoperability
(MIMI) Working Group.

[E2E-IDENTITY]

. These

2.  Conventions and Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Mahy

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9734

extendedKeyUsage for IM URIs

February 2025

3.  The IM URI EKU

This specification defines the KeyPurposeId id-kp-imUri, which may be included in certificates
used to prove the identity of an IM client. This EKU extension
, at the option of the certificate
issuer, be either critical or non-critical.

MAY

id-kp  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::= {
  iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
  security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) kp(3) }

id-kp-imUri OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-kp 40 }

4.  Security Considerations

[RFC5280]

 are applicable to this document. The id-kp-imUri

The security considerations of
extended key purpose does not introduce new security risks but instead reduces existing security
risks by providing means to identify if the certificate is generated to sign IM identity credentials.
Issuers
id-kp-serverAuth extended key purpose: that would defeat the improved specificity offered by
having an id-kp-imUri extended key purpose.

 set the id-kp-imUri extended key purpose and an id-kp-clientAuth or

SHOULD NOT

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following OID in the "SMI Security for PKIX Extended Key Purpose"
registry (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3). This OID is defined in Section 3.

Decimal Description

References

40

id-kp-imUri

RFC 9734

Table 1

IANA has also registered the following ASN.1
for PKIX Module Identifier" registry (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.0). This OID is defined in Appendix A.

[ITU.X690.2021]

 module OID in the "SMI Security

Decimal Description

References

113

id-mod-im-eku

RFC 9734

Table 2

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

Mahy

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9734

extendedKeyUsage for IM URIs

February 2025

[ITU.X680.2021]

ITU-T "Information Technology - Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):

,

Specification of basic notation" ITU-T Recommendation X.680 ISO/IEC
8824-1:2021

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.680>

, February 2021,

,

,

.

[ITU.X690.2021]

ITU-T "Information Technology - ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic

,

Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690 ISO/IEC 8825-1-2021
February 2021,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690>

,
.

,

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

6.2.  Informative References

[E2E-IDENTITY]

 and

Barnes, R.

R. Mahy "Identity for E2E-Secure Communications" Work in
,
, 4 February 2025,

Progress Internet-Draft, draft-barnes-mimi-identity-arch-02
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-barnes-mimi-identity-arch-02>

,

,

.

[RFC3860]

[RFC6121]

[RFC9420]

Peterson, J. "Common Profile for Instant Messaging (CPIM)" RFC 3860 DOI
10.17487/RFC3860
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3860>

, August 2004,

,

,

,

,

Saint-Andre, P. "Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): Instant
Messaging and Presence" RFC 6121 DOI 10.17487/RFC6121
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6121>

, March 2011,

,

,

.

,

Barnes, R. Beurdouche, B. Robert, R. Millican, J. Omara, E.
Gordon "The Messaging Layer Security (MLS) Protocol" RFC 9420 DOI 10.17487/
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9420>
RFC9420
, July 2023,

K. Cohn-
,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

The following module adheres to ASN.1 specifications

[ITU.X680.2021]

 and

[ITU.X690.2021]
.

Mahy

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9734

extendedKeyUsage for IM URIs

February 2025

<CODE BEGINS>

IM-EKU
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
  security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
  id-mod-im-eku (113) }

DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN

-- OID Arc

id-kp OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
    security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) kp(3) }

-- Extended Key Usage Values

id-kp-imUri OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-kp 40 }

END

<CODE ENDS>

Acknowledgments

Thanks to
encouragement.

Sean Turner

 and

Russ Housley

 for reviews, suggestions, corrections, and

Author's Address

Rohan Mahy
Rohan Mahy Consulting Services
Email:

rohan.ietf@gmail.com

Mahy

Standards Track

Page 5

