Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9290
Standards Track
October 2022
2070-1721
T. Fossati
Arm Limited

C. Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI

RFC 9290
Concise Problem Details for Constrained Application
Protocol (CoAP) APIs

Abstract

This document defines a concise "problem detail" as a way to carry machine-readable details of
errors in a Representational State Transfer (REST) response to avoid the need to define new error
response formats for REST APIs for constrained environments. The format is inspired by, but
intended to be more concise than, the problem details for HTTP APIs defined in RFC 7807.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9290
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology and Requirements Language

2.  Basic Problem Details

3.  Extending Concise Problem Details

3.1.  Standard Problem Detail Entries

3.1.1.  Standard Problem Detail Entry: Unprocessed CoAP Option

3.2.  Custom Problem Detail Entries

4.  Privacy Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Standard Problem Detail Keys Registry

6.2.  Custom Problem Detail Keys Registry

6.3.  Media Type

6.4.  Content-Format

6.5.  CBOR Tag 38

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Language-Tagged Strings

A.1.  Introduction

A.2.  Detailed Semantics

A.3.  Examples

Appendix B.  Interworking with RFC 7807

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

1.  Introduction

Section 5.9 of [RFC7252]

) is sometimes not sufficient to convey enough information about

REST response status information such as Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) response
codes (
an error to be helpful. This specification defines a simple and extensible framework to define
Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)
framework is designed to be reused by REST APIs, which can identify distinct "shapes" of these
data items specific to their needs. Thus, API clients can be informed of both the high-level error
class (using the response code) and the finer-grained details of the problem (using the vocabulary
defined here). This pattern of communication is illustrated in Figure 1.

 data items to suit this purpose. This

[STD94]

CoAP
Client

CoAP
Server

Request

Error Response
with a CBOR
data item giving
Problem Details

(failure)

Figure 1: Problem Details: Example with CoAP

The framework presented is largely inspired by the problem details for HTTP APIs defined in
[RFC7807]
 is required.

. Appendix B discusses applications where interworking with

[RFC7807]

1.1.  Terminology and Requirements Language

[RFC8610]
The terminology from
notation is defined in Section 8 of RFC 8949
 and
also expected to be familiar with the terminology from

[RFC7252] [STD94]

[STD94]

, and

,

[RFC7807]
.

 applies; in particular, CBOR diagnostic
Appendix G of [RFC8610]

. Readers are

In this document, the structure of data is specified in Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL)
[RFC8610] [RFC9165]
.

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

2.  Basic Problem Details

A Concise Problem Details data item is a CBOR data item with the following structure (rules
named starting with tag38 are defined in Appendix A):

problem-details = non-empty<{
  ? &(title: -1) => oltext
  ? &(detail: -2) => oltext
  ? &(instance: -3) => ~uri
  ? &(response-code: -4) => uint .size 1
  ? &(base-uri: -5) => ~uri
  ? &(base-lang: -6) => tag38-ltag
  ? &(base-rtl: -7) => tag38-direction
  standard-problem-detail-entries
  custom-problem-detail-entries
}>

standard-problem-detail-entries = (
  * nint => any
)

custom-problem-detail-entries = (
  * (uint/~uri) => { + any => any }
)

non-empty<M> = (M) .and ({ + any => any })

oltext = text / tag38

Figure 2: Structure of Concise Problem Details Data Item

(Examples of elaborated Concise Problem Details data items can be found later in the document,
e.g., Figure 3.)

A number of problem detail entries, the Standard Problem Detail entries, are predefined (more
predefined details can be registered, see Section 3.1).

Note that, unlike
Instead, the category (or, one could say, Gestalt) of the problem can be understood from the
shape of the problem details offered. We talk of a "problem shape" for short.

, Concise Problem Details data items have no explicit "problem type".

[RFC7807]

The title (key -1):

A short, human-readable summary of the problem shape. Beyond the shape of the problem, it
is not intended to summarize all the specific information given with the problem details. For
instance, the summary might include that an account does not have enough money for a
transaction to succeed but not the detailed information such as the account number, how
much money that account has, and how much would be needed.

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

The detail (key -2):

A human-readable explanation specific to this occurrence of the problem.

The instance (key -3):

A URI reference that identifies the specific occurrence of the problem. It may or may not yield
further information if dereferenced.

The response-code (key -4):

The CoAP response code (Sections 5.9 and 12.1.2 of
for this occurrence of the problem.

[RFC7252]

) generated by the origin server

The base-uri (key -5):

The base URI (see Section 5.1 of RFC 3986
references embedded in this Concise Problem Details data item.

[STD66]

) that should be used to resolve relative URI

The base-lang (key -6):

The language-tag (tag38-ltag) that applies to the presentation of unadorned text strings (not
using tag 38) in this Concise Problem Details data item; see Appendix A.

The base-rtl (key -7):

The writing-direction (tag38-direction) that applies to the presentation of unadorned text
strings (not using tag 38) in this Concise Problem Details data item; see Appendix A.

Both "title" and "detail" can use either an unadorned CBOR text string (text) or a language-
tagged text string (tag38); see Appendix A for the definition of the latter. Language tag and
writing direction information for unadorned text strings is intended to be obtained from context;
if that context needs to be saved or forwarded with a Concise Problem Details data item, "base-
lang" and "base-rtl" can be used. If no such (explicitly saved or implicit) context information is
available, unadorned text is interpreted with language-tag "en" and writing-direction "false" (ltr).

The "title" string is advisory and included to give consumers a shorthand for the category
(problem shape) of the error encountered.

The "detail" member, if present, ought to focus on helping the client correct the problem rather
than giving extensive server-side debugging information. Consumers
 parse the
"detail" member for information; extensions (see Section 3) are more suitable and less error-
prone ways to obtain such information. Note that the "instance" URI reference may be relative;
this means that it must be resolved relative to the representation's base URI, as per Section 5 of
RFC 3986

SHOULD NOT

[STD66]
.

The "response-code" member, if present, is only advisory; it conveys the CoAP response code
used for the convenience of the consumer. Generators
in the actual CoAP response; the latter is needed to assure that generic CoAP software that does
not understand the problem-details format still behaves correctly. Consumers can use the
"response-code" member to determine what the original response code used by the generator
was, in cases where it has been changed (e.g., by an intermediary or cache), and when message
bodies persist without CoAP information (e.g., in an events log or analytics database). Generic
CoAP software will still use the CoAP response code. To support the use case of message-body

 use the same response code here as

MUST

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

persistence without support by the problem-details generator, the entity that persists the Concise
Problem Details data item can copy over the CoAP response code that it received on the CoAP
level. Note that the "response-code" value is a numeric representation of the actual code (see
Section 3 of [RFC7252]
status code: 4.04 Not Found is represented by the number 132.

), so it does not take the usual presentation form that resembles an HTTP

The "base-uri" member is usually not present in the initial request-response communication as it
can be inferred as per Section 5.1.3 of RFC 3986
. An entity that stores a Concise Problem
Details data item or otherwise makes it available for consumers without this context might add
in a "base-uri" member to allow those consumers to perform resolution of any relative URI
references embedded in the data item.

[STD66]

3.  Extending Concise Problem Details

This specification defines a generic problem-details container with only a minimal set of
attributes to make it usable.

It is expected that applications will extend the base format by defining new attributes.

These new attributes fall into two categories: generic and application specific.

Generic attributes will be allocated in the standard-problem-detail-entries slot according to
the registration procedure defined in Section 3.1.

Application-specific attributes will be allocated in the custom-problem-detail-entries slot
according to the procedure described in Section 3.2.

MUST

 ignore any Standard Problem Detail

Consumers of a Concise Problem Details data item
entries or Custom Problem Detail entries, or keys inside the Custom Problem Detail entries, that
they do not recognize ("ignore-unknown rule"); this allows problem details to evolve. When
storing the data item for future use or forwarding it to other consumers, it is strongly
RECOMMENDED
forwarding occurs in a different format/protocol that cannot accommodate them or when the
storage or forwarding function needs to filter out privacy-sensitive information and for that
needs to assume unrecognized entries might be privacy-sensitive.

 to retain the unrecognized entries; exceptions might be when storage or

3.1.  Standard Problem Detail Entries

Beyond the Standard Problem Detail keys defined in Figure 2, additional Standard Problem
Detail keys can be registered for use in the standard-problem-detail-entries slot (see Section
6.1).

Standard Problem Detail keys are negative integers, so they can never conflict with Custom
Problem Detail keys defined for a specific application domain (which are unsigned integers or
URIs.)

In summary, the keys for Standard Problem Detail entries are in a global namespace that is not
specific to a particular application domain.

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

3.1.1.  Standard Problem Detail Entry: Unprocessed CoAP Option

Section 2 provides a number of generally applicable Standard Problem Detail entries. The
present section both registers another useful Standard Problem Detail entry and serves as an
example of a Standard Problem Detail Entry registration, in the registration template format that
would be ready for registration.

Key value:

-8

Name:

unprocessed-coap-option

CDDL type:

one-or-more<uint>, where

one-or-more<T> = T / [ 2* T ]

Brief description:

Option number(s) of CoAP option(s) that were not understood

Specification reference:

Section 3.1.1 of RFC 9290

The specification of the Standard Problem Detail entry referenced by the above registration
template follows:

The Standard Problem Detail entry unprocessed-coap-option provides the option number or
numbers of any CoAP options present in the request that could not be processed by the server.

This may be a critical option that the server is unaware of, or an option the server is aware of but
could not process (and chose not to, or was not allowed to, ignore it).

The Concise Problem Details data item including this Standard Problem Detail Entry can be used
in fulfillment of the "

Section 5.4.1 of [RFC7252]
.

" requirement in

SHOULD

Several option numbers may be given in a list (in no particular order), without any guarantee
that the list is a complete representation of all the problems in the request (as the server might
have stopped processing already at one of the problematic options). If an option with the given
number was repeated, there is no indication which of the values caused the error.

Clients need to expect to see options in the list that they did not send in the request; this can
happen if the request traversed a proxy that added the option but did not act on the problem-
details response being returned by the origin server.

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

For a few special values of unprocessed CoAP options (such as Accept or Proxy-Uri), note that
there are special response codes (4.06 Not Acceptable, 5.05 Proxying Not Supported, respectively)
to be sent instead of 4.02 Bad Option.

3.2.  Custom Problem Detail Entries

Applications may extend the Concise Problem Details data item with additional entries to convey
additional, application-specific information.

Such new entries are allocated in the custom-problem-detail-entries slot and carry a nested
map specific to that application. The map key can be either an (absolute!) URI (under control of
the entity defining this extension) or an unsigned integer. Only the latter needs to be registered
(Section 6.2).

Within the nested map, any number of attributes can be given for a single extension. The
semantics of each custom attribute
for extensions that are registered (i.e., are identified by an unsigned int), that documentation
goes along with the registration.

 be described in the documentation for the extension;

MUST

The unsigned integer form allows a more compact representation. In exchange, authors are
expected to comply with the required registration and documentation process. In comparison,
the URI form is less space efficient but requires no registration. Therefore, it is useful for
experimenting during the development cycle and for applications deployed in environments
where producers and consumers of Concise Problem Details are more tightly integrated. (Thus,
the URI form covers the potential need we might otherwise have for a "Private Use" range for the
unsigned integers.)

Note that the URI given for the extension is for identification purposes only and, even if
dereferenceable in principle, it
problem details (i.e., outside diagnostic or debugging procedures involving humans).

 be dereferenced in the normal course of handling

MUST NOT

Figure 3 shows an example (in CBOR diagnostic notation) of a custom extension using a (made-
up) URI as the custom-problem-detail-entries key.

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

{
  / title /         -1: "title of the error",
  / detail /        -2: "detailed information about the error",
  / instance /      -3: "coaps://pd.example/FA317434",
  / response-code / -4: 128, / 4.00 /

  "tag:3gpp.org,2022-03:TS29112": {
    / cause /  0: "machine-readable error cause",
    / invalidParams / 1: [
      [
        / param / "first parameter name",
        / reason / "must be a positive integer"
      ],
      [
        / param / "second parameter name"
      ]
    ],
    / supportedFeatures / 2: "d34db33f"
  }
}

Figure 3: Example Extension with URI Key

Obviously, a Standards Development Organization (SDO) like 3GPP can also easily register such a
Custom Problem Detail entry to receive a more efficient unsigned integer key; Figure 4 shows
how the same example would look using a (made-up) registered unsigned int as the custom-
problem-detail-entries key:

{
  / title /         -1: "title of the error",
  / detail /        -2: "detailed information about the error",
  / instance /      -3: "coaps://pd.example/FA317434",
  / response-code / -4: 128, / 4.00 /

  /4711 is made-up example key that is not actually registered:/
  4711: {
    / cause /  0: "machine-readable error cause",
    / invalidParams / 1: [
      [
        / param / "first parameter name",
        / reason / "must be a positive integer"
      ],
      [
        / param / "second parameter name"
      ]
    ],
    / supportedFeatures / 2: "d34db33f"
  }
}

Figure 4: Example Extension with Unsigned Int (Registered) Key

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

In summary, the keys for the maps used inside Custom Problem Detail entries are defined
specifically for use with the identifier of that Custom Problem Detail entry, the documentation of
which defines these internal entries, typically chosen to address a given application domain.

When there is a need to evolve a Custom Problem Detail entry definition, the "ignore-unknown
rule" discussed in Section 3 provides an easy way to include additional information. The
assumption is that this is done in a backward- and forward-compatible way. Sometimes, Custom
Problem Detail entries may need to evolve in a way where forward compatibility by applying the
"ignore-unknown rule" would not be appropriate: for example, when adding a "must-
understand" member, which can only be ignored at the peril of misunderstanding the Concise
Problem Details data item ("false interoperability"). In this case, a new Custom Problem Detail
key can simply be registered for this case, keeping the old key backward and forward
compatible.

4.  Privacy Considerations

Problem details may unintentionally disclose information. This can lead to both privacy and
security problems. See Section 5 for more details that apply to both domains; particular attention
needs to be given to unintentionally disclosing Personally Identifiable Information (PII).

5.  Security Considerations

Concise Problem Details can contain URIs that are not intended to be dereferenced (Section 3.2,
Paragraph 5). One reason is that dereferencing these can lead to information disclosure
(tracking). Information disclosure can also be caused by URIs in problem details that are
intended for dereferencing, e.g., the "instance" URI. Implementations need to consider which
component of a client should perform the dereferencing and which servers are trusted with
 apply.
serving them. In any case, the security considerations of Section 7 of RFC 3986

[STD66]

 apply in full. While

Section 5 of [RFC7807]

The security and privacy considerations outlined in
these are phrased in terms of security considerations for new RFC 7807 problem types, they
equally apply to the problem detail entry definitions used here (Section 3). In summary, both
when defining new detail entries and when actually using them to generate a Concise Problem
Details data item, care needs to be taken that they do not leak sensitive information. Entities
storing or forwarding Concise Problem Details data items need to consider whether this leads to
information being transferred out of the context within which access to sensitive information
was acceptable. See also Section 3, Paragraph 6 (the last paragraph of the introduction to that
section). Privacy-sensitive information in the problem details
that might lead to misclassification as non-sensitive (e.g., by base64-encoding).

 be obscured in ways

SHOULD NOT

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Standard Problem Detail Keys Registry

This specification defines a new subregistry titled "Standard Problem Detail Keys" in the
"Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters" registry
"Specification Required" as the Registration Procedure (

Section 4.6 of [RFC8126]

[IANA.core-parameters]

).

, with

Each entry in the registry must include:

Key Value:

a negative integer to be used as the value of the key

Name:

a name that could be used in implementations for the key

CDDL Type:

type of the data associated with the key in CDDL notation

Brief Description:

a brief description

Reference:

a reference document

Change Controller:

(see

Section 2.3 of [RFC8126]
)

The designated expert is requested to assign the shortest key values (1+0 and 1+1 encoding) to
registrations that are likely to enjoy wide use and can benefit from short encodings.

To be immediately useful in CDDL and programming-language contexts, a name consists of a
lowercase ASCII letter (a-z) and zero or more additional ASCII characters that are either
lowercase letters, digits, or a hyphen-minus, i.e., it matches [a-z][-a-z0-9]*. As with the key
values, names need to be unique.

The specification in the reference document needs to provide a description of the Standard
Problem Detail entry, replicating the CDDL description in "CDDL Type", and describing the
semantics of the presence of this entry and the semantics of the value given with it.

Initial entries in this subregistry are as follows:

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

Key
Value

Name

CDDL Type

Brief
Description

Reference

Change
Controller

-1

title

text / tag38

RFC 9290

IETF

Short, human-
readable
summary of the
problem shape

-2

detail

text / tag38  Human-readable

RFC 9290

IETF

-3

instance

~uri

explanation
specific to this
occurrence of the
problem

URI reference
identifying
specific
occurrence of the
problem

RFC 9290

IETF

-4

-5

-6

-7

-8

response-
code

uint .size 1

CoAP response
code

RFC 9290

IETF

base-uri

~uri

Base URI

RFC 9290

base-lang

tag38-ltag

Base language tag
(see Appendix A)

RFC 9290

IETF

IETF

base-rtl

tag38-
direction

unprocessed-
coap-option

one-or-
more<uint>

Base writing
direction (see
Appendix A)

Option number(s)
of CoAP option(s)
that were not
understood

RFC 9290

IETF

RFC 9290,
Section 3.1.1

IETF

Table 1: Initial Entries in the Standard Problem Detail Keys Registry

6.2.  Custom Problem Detail Keys Registry

This specification defines a new subregistry titled "Custom Problem Detail Keys" in the
"Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters" registry
"Expert Review" as the Registration Procedure (

Section 4.5 of [RFC8126]

[IANA.core-parameters]

).

, with as

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

The designated expert is instructed to attempt making the registration experience as close to
First Come First Served as reasonably achievable, but checking that the reference document does
provide a description as set out below. (This requirement is a relaxed version of "Specification
Required" as defined in

Section 4.6 of [RFC8126]

.)

Each entry in the registry must include:

Key Value:

an unsigned integer to be used as the value of the key

Name:

a name that could be used in implementations for the key

Brief Description:

a brief description

Reference:

a reference document that provides a description of the map, including a CDDL description,
that describes all inside keys and values

Change Controller

(see

Section 2.3 of [RFC8126]
)

The designated expert is requested to assign the shortest key values (1+0 and 1+1 encoding) to
registrations that are likely to enjoy wide use and can benefit from short encodings.

To be immediately useful in CDDL and programming-language contexts, a name consists of a
lowercase ASCII letter (a-z) and zero or more additional ASCII characters that are either
lowercase letters, digits, or a hyphen-minus, i.e., it matches [a-z][-a-z0-9]*. As with the key
values, names need to be unique.

Initial entries in this subregistry are as follows:

Key
Value

Name

Brief Description

Reference

7807

tunnel-7807

Carry RFC 7807 problem
details in a Concise Problem
Details data item

RFC 9290,
Appendix B

Table 2: Initial Entries in the Custom Problem Detail Key Registry

Change
Controller

IETF

6.3.  Media Type

IANA has added the following media type to the "Media Types" registry

[IANA.media-types]
.

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

Name

Template

Reference

concise-problem-
details+cbor

application/concise-problem-
details+cbor

RFC 9290, Section
6.3

Table 3: New Media Type 'application/concise-problem-details+cbor'

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

concise-problem-details+cbor

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

binary (CBOR data item)

Security considerations:

Section 5 of RFC 9290

Interoperability considerations:

none

Published specification:

Section 6.3 of RFC 9290

Applications that use this media type:

Clients and servers in the Internet of Things

Fragment identifier considerations:

The syntax and semantics of fragment identifiers is as

specified for "application/cbor". (At publication of RFC 9290, there is no fragment
identification syntax defined for "application/cbor".)

Additional information:

Deprecated alias names for this type:
Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh file type code(s):

N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:
or IETF Applications and Real-Time Area (art@ietf.org)

CoRE WG mailing list (core@ietf.org)

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

none

Author/Change controller:

IETF

Provisional registration:

no

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

6.4.  Content-Format

IANA has registered a Content-Format number in the "CoAP Content-Formats" subregistry, within
the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters" registry
follows:

[IANA.core-parameters]

, as

Media Type

Encoding

ID

Reference

application/concise-problem-details+cbor

-

257

RFC 9290

Table 4: Content-Format Registration

6.5.  CBOR Tag 38

In the registry "CBOR Tags"
the reference for CBOR tag 38 to point to RFC 9290, Appendix A.

[IANA.cbor-tags]

, IANA has registered CBOR tag 38. IANA has updated

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[IANA.cbor-tags]

IANA "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Tags" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/cbor-tags>

.

[IANA.core-parameters]

IANA "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters"

,

,

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/core-parameters>

.

[IANA.media-types]

IANA "Provisional Standard Media Type Registry" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC4647]

[RFC5646]

[RFC7252]

[RFC7807]

assignments/provisional-standard-media-types>

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Phillips, A., Ed.
4647 DOI 10.17487/RFC4647
,
rfc4647>

.

M. Davis, Ed. "Matching of Language Tags" BCP 47 RFC

,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

, September 2006,

 and

Phillips, A., Ed.
5646 DOI 10.17487/RFC5646
,
rfc5646>

.

M. Davis, Ed. "Tags for Identifying Languages" BCP 47 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2009,

,

,

,

Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
,
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

,

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

Nottingham, M.
10.17487/RFC7807

E. Wilde "Problem Details for HTTP APIs" RFC 7807 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7807>
.

, March 2016,

,

,

 and

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8610]

[RFC9165]

[STD66]

[STD94]

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

, and

Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
,
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Definition Language

, June 2019,

,

,

.

,

Bormann, C. "Additional Control Operators for the Concise Data Definition
Language (CDDL)" RFC 9165 DOI 10.17487/RFC9165
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9165>

, December 2021,

,

,

.

<https://

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986
,

, and

,

,

, January 2005.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/std66>

Bormann, C.
 and
STD 94 RFC 8949

,

P. Hoffman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
, December 2020.

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/std94>

7.2.  Informative References

[HTTPAPI]

[RDF]

[RFC4648]

[RFC6082]

,

Nottingham, M. Wilde, E.
, and
in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-httpapi-rfc7807bis-04
,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-httpapi-rfc7807bis-04>

S. Dalal "Problem Details for HTTP APIs" Work
, 5 September 2022,

,

,

.

,

Cyganiak, R. Wood, D.
,
Syntax" W3C Recommendation
, 25 February 2014,
REC-rdf11-concepts-20140225/>
.

, and

,

M. Lanthaler "RDF 1.1 Concepts and Abstract

<http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

,

Whistler, K. Adams, G. Duerst, M. Presuhn, R., Ed.
,
Unicode Language Tag Characters: RFC 2482 is Historic" RFC 6082 DOI
10.17487/RFC6082

J. Klensin "Deprecating
, and
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6082>

, November 2010,

,
,

,

.

[Unicode-14.0.0]

The Unicode Consortium "The Unicode Standard, Version 14.0.0" Mountain

,

,
View: The Unicode Consortium ISBN 978-1-936213-29-0
<https://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode14.0.0/>

,

.

, September 2021,

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

[Unicode-14.0.0-bidi]

The Unicode Consortium "Unicode Standard Annex #9 --- Unicode

Bidirectional Algorithm"
#Markup_And_Formatting>

.

,
, 27 August 2021,

<https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr9/

Appendix A.  Language-Tagged Strings

This appendix serves as the archival documentation for CBOR tag 38, a tag for serializing
language-tagged text strings in CBOR. The text of this appendix is adapted from the specification
text supplied for its initial registration. It has been extended to allow supplementing the
language tag by a direction indication.

As with any IANA-registered item, a specification that further updates this registration needs to
update the reference column of the IANA registry (see Section 6.5). Future specifications may
update this appendix, other parts of this document, or both. (When updating this appendix, keep
in mind that applications beyond Concise Problem Details data items may adopt the tag defined
here.) Users of this tag are advised to consult the registry to obtain the most recent update for
this appendix.

A.1.  Introduction

In some cases, it is useful to specify the natural language of a text string. This specification
defines a tag that does just that. One technology that supports language-tagged strings is the
[RDF]
.
Resource Description Framework (RDF)

A.2.  Detailed Semantics

A language-tagged text string in CBOR has the tag 38 and consists of an array with a length of 2 or
3.

The first element is a well-formed language tag described in BCP 47 (
represented as a UTF-8 text string (major type 3).

[RFC5646]

 and

[RFC4647]

),

The second element is an arbitrary UTF-8 text string (major type 3). Both the language tag and
the arbitrary string can optionally be annotated with CBOR tags; this is not shown in the CDDL
below.

The optional third element, if present, represents a ternary value that indicates a direction, as
follows:

•

false: left-to-right direction ("ltr"). The text is expected to be displayed with left-to-right base
direction if standalone and isolated with left-to-right direction (as if enclosed in LRI ... PDI or
equivalent, see

) in the context of a longer string or text.

[Unicode-14.0.0-bidi]

•

true: right-to-left direction ("rtl"). The text is expected to be displayed with right-to-left base
direction if standalone and isolated with right-to-left direction (as if enclosed in RLI ... PDI or
equivalent, see

) in the context of a longer string or text.

[Unicode-14.0.0-bidi]

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

•

null: indicates that no indication is made about the direction ("auto"), enabling an
internationalization library to make an auto-detection decision such as treating the string as
if enclosed in FSI ... PDI or equivalent, see

[Unicode-14.0.0-bidi]

.

If the third element is absent, directionality context may be applied (e.g., base-directionality
information for an entire CBOR message or part thereof). If there is no directionality context
applied, the default interpretation is the same as for null ("auto").

In CDDL:

tag38 = #6.38([tag38-ltag, text, ?tag38-direction])
tag38-ltag = text .regexp "[a-zA-Z]{1,8}(-[a-zA-Z0-9]{1,8})*"
tag38-direction = &(ltr: false, rtl: true, auto: null)

NOTE: Language tags of any combination of case are allowed. But
of BCP 47, recommends a case combination for language tags that encoders that support tag 38
may wish to follow when generating language tags.

Section 2.1.1 of [RFC5646]

, part

Data items with tag 38 that do not meet the criteria above are not valid (see Section 5.3.2 of RFC
8949

[STD94]

).

[Unicode-14.0.0]

NOTE: The Unicode Standard
text (including language tagging) in the range U+E0000 to U+E007F. Although many applications,
including RDF, do not disallow these characters in text strings, the Unicode Consortium has
deprecated these characters and recommends annotating language via a higher-level protocol
instead. See the section "Deprecated Tag Characters" in Section 23.9 of
[RFC6082]
.

 includes a set of characters designed for tagging

[Unicode-14.0.0]

 as well as

NOTE: while this document references a version of Unicode that was recent at the time of
writing, the statements made based on this version are expected to remain valid for future
versions.

A.3.  Examples

Examples in this section are given in CBOR diagnostic notation first and then as a pretty-printed
hexadecimal representation of the encoded item.

The following example shows how the English-language string "Hello" is represented.

38(["en", "Hello"])

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

D8 26               # tag(38)
   82               # array(2)
      62            # text(2)
         656E       # "en"
      65            # text(5)
         48656C6C6F # "Hello"

The following example shows how the French-language string "Bonjour" is represented.

38(["fr", "Bonjour"])

D8 26                   # tag(38)
   82                   # array(2)
      62                # text(2)
         6672           # "fr"
      67                # text(7)
         426F6E6A6F7572 # "Bonjour"

The following example uses right-to-left (RTL) script, which in the context of this specification
may be rendered differently by different document presentation environments. The descriptive
text may be more reliable to follow than the necessarily device- and application-specific
rendering. The example shows how the Hebrew-language string

םולש

is represented, where in direction of reading, the sequence of characters is: "ש" (HEBREW
LETTER SHIN, U+05E9), "ל" (HEBREW LETTER LAMED, U+05DC), "ו" (HEBREW LETTER VAV,
U+05D5), "ם" (HEBREW LETTER FINAL MEM, U+05DD). Note the rtl direction expressed by
setting the third element in the array to "true".

38(["he", "םולש", true])

D8 26                     # tag(38)
   83                     # array(3)
      62                  # text(2)
         6865             # "he"
      68                  # text(8)
         D7A9D79CD795D79D # "םולש"
      F5                  # primitive(21)

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

Appendix B.  Interworking with RFC 7807

On certain occasions, it will be necessary to carry ("tunnel")
Concise Problem Details data item.

[RFC7807]

 problem details in a

This appendix defines a Custom Problem Detail entry for that purpose. This is assigned Custom
Problem Detail key 7807 in Section 6.2. Its structure is:

tunnel-7807 = {
  ? &(type: 0) => ~uri
  ? &(status: 1) => 0..999
  * text => any
}

[RFC7807]

To carry an
convert the JSON object to CBOR as per Section 6.2 of RFC 8949
Problem Details data item.

 problem details JSON object in a Concise Problem Details data item, first

[STD94]

. Create an empty Concise

Move the values for "title", "detail", and "instance", if present, from the
to the equivalent Standard Problem Detail entries. Create a Custom Problem Detail entry with
key 7807. Move the values for "type" and "status", if present, to the equivalent keys 0 and 1 of the
Custom Problem Detail entry. Move all remaining key/value pairs (additional members as per
[RFC7807]
Section 3.2 of [RFC7807]
Problem Detail map unchanged.

 problem details object to the Custom

) in the converted

[RFC7807]

 problem details

The inverse direction, carrying Concise Problem Details in an RFC 7807 problem details JSON
object requires the additional support provided by
, which is planned to create the
HTTP Problem Types Registry. An HTTP Problem Type can then be registered that extracts top-
level items from the Concise Problem Details data item in a similar way to the conversion
described above and that carries the rest of the Concise Problem Details data item in an
additional member via base64url encoding without padding (
be defined in a separate document when the work on

Section 5 of [RFC4648]

 is completed.

[HTTPAPI]

[HTTPAPI]

). Details can

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
Mark Nottingham
Jaime Jiménez
Klaus Hartke
, the coauthors of an earlier draft version of this specification;
 and
Christian Amsüss Marco Tiloca Ari Keränen
,
,
on this document.
Jaeggli
document.

 for review and comments
Joel
 for his OPSDIR review, both of which brought significant additional considerations to this

 for her review (and support) as responsible AD, and

, the authors of RFC 7807;

Francesca Palombini

Michael Richardson

Erik Wilde

, and

 and

John Cowan

For Appendix A,
earlier draft version of this appendix was also discussed in the "apps-discuss@ietf.org" and
"ltru@ietf.org" mailing lists. More recently, the authors initiated a discussion about the handling

 are also to be acknowledged. The content of an

Doug Ewell

 and

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9290

CoRE Problem Details

October 2022

of writing direction information in conjunction with language tags. That led to discussions within
the W3C Internationalization Core Working Group. The authors would like to acknowledge that
cross-organization cooperation and particular contributions from
Phillips

 and specific text proposals by

Martin Dürst
.

John Klensin

Addison

 and

Contributors

Peter Occil
Email:
URI:

 poccil14@gmail.com

 http://peteroupc.github.io/CBOR/

Peter defined CBOR tag 38, basis of Appendix A.

Christian Amsüss
Email:

 christian@amsuess.com

Christian contributed what became Section 3.1.1.

Authors' Addresses

Thomas Fossati
Arm Limited
Email:

 thomas.fossati@arm.com

Carsten Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-421-218-63921
 cabo@tzi.org

Fossati & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 21

