Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9456
6353
Standards Track
November 2023
2070-1721
K. Vaughn,
Trevilon LLC

 Ed.

RFC 9456
Updates to the TLS Transport Model for SNMP

Abstract

This document updates RFC 6353 ("Transport Layer Security (TLS) Transport Model for the
Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)") to reflect changes necessary to support
Transport Layer Security version 1.3 (TLS 1.3) and Datagram Transport Layer Security version
1.3 (DTLS 1.3), which are jointly known as "(D)TLS 1.3". This document is compatible with (D)TLS
1.2 and is intended to be compatible with future versions of SNMP and (D)TLS.

This document updates the SNMP-TLS-TM-MIB as defined in RFC 6353.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9456
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  The Internet-Standard Management Framework

1.2.  Conventions

2.  Changes from RFC 6353

2.1.  TLSTM Fingerprint

2.2.  Security Level

2.3.  (D)TLS Version

3.  Additional Rules for TLS 1.3

3.1.  Zero Round-Trip Time Resumption (0-RTT)

3.2.  TLS Cipher Suites, Extensions, and Protocol Invariants

4.  MIB Module Definitions

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

5

5

5

5

6

6

26

26

27

27

29

30

30

This document updates and clarifies how the rules of
Layer Security (TLS) or Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) versions later than 1.2. This
document jointly refers to these two protocols as "(D)TLS". The update also emphasizes the
requirement in

 prohibiting the use of TLS versions prior to TLS 1.2

 apply when using Transport

[RFC6353]

[RFC8996]

[RFC5246]

 when

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

using SNMP. Although the text of this document specifically references SNMPv3 and (D)TLS 1.3,
this document may be applicable to future versions of these protocols and is backwards
compatible with (D)TLS 1.2.

1.1.  The Internet-Standard Management Framework

For a detailed overview of the documents that describe the current Internet-Standard
Management Framework, please refer to

Section 7 of [RFC3410]
.

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the Management
Information Base or MIB. MIB objects are generally accessed through the Simple Network
Management Protocol (SNMP). Objects in the MIB are defined using the mechanisms defined in
the Structure of Management Information (SMI). This memo specifies a MIB module that is
compliant to the SMIv2, which is described in RFCs 2578, 2579, and 2580

[STD58]
.

1.2.  Conventions

Within this document, the terms "TLS", "DTLS", and "(D)TLS" apply to all versions of the indicated
protocols. The term "SNMP" means "SNMPv3" unless a specific version number is indicated.
Specific version numbers are used when the text needs to emphasize version numbers.

[STD62]

, rather than favoring terminology that is consistent with non-SNMP specifications.

For consistency with SNMP-related specifications, this document favors terminology as defined
in
This is consistent with the IESG decision to not require that the SNMP terminology be modified to
match the usage of other non-SNMP specifications when SNMP was advanced to an Internet
Standard. "Authentication" in this document typically refers to the English meaning of "serving to
prove the authenticity of" the message, not data source authentication or peer identity
authentication. The terms "manager" and "agent" are not used in this document because, in the
architecture defined in RFC 3411
manager, agent, or both, depending on the SNMP application types supported in the
implementation. Where distinction is necessary, the application names of command generator,
command responder, notification originator, notification receiver, and proxy forwarder are
used. See "An Architecture for Describing Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)
Management Frameworks" (RFC 3411

, all SNMP entities have the capability of acting as

) for further information.

[STD62]

[STD62]

Throughout this document, the terms "client" and "server" are used to refer to the two ends of
the TLS transport connection. The client actively opens the TLS connection, and the server
passively listens for the incoming TLS connection. An SNMP entity
server, or both, depending on the SNMP applications supported.

 act as a TLS client, TLS

MAY

Throughout this document, the term "session" is used to refer to a secure association between
two instances of the TLS Transport Model (TLSTM) that permits the transmission of one or more
SNMP messages within the lifetime of the session. The TLS protocol also has an internal notion of
a session, and although these two concepts of a session are related, when the term "session" is
used, this document is referring to the TLSTM's specific session and not directly to the TLS
protocol's session.

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Changes from RFC 6353

This document updates
subsections.

[RFC6353]

. The changes from

[RFC6353]

 are defined in the following

2.1.  TLSTM Fingerprint

 defines the SnmpTLSFingerprint textual convention to include the one-octet TLS 1.2

[RFC6353]
hash algorithm identifier. This one-octet algorithm identifier is only applicable to (D)TLS protocol
versions prior to 1.3. The TLS community does not plan to ever add additional values to the "TLS
, because some might incorrectly infer that using a new hash
HashAlgorithm" registry
algorithm with TLS 1.2 would overcome the limitations of TLS 1.2. However, there is still a need
within TLSTM to support new values as they are developed.

[RFC5246]

This document updates the definition of SnmpTLSFingerprint to clarify that the one-octet
algorithm identifier uses the values in the IANA "SNMP-TLSTM HashAlgorithms" registry; this
registry is consistent with the IANA "TLS HashAlgorithm" registry for its initial values but can be
extended as needed to support new hashing algorithms without implying that the new values
can be used by TLS version 1.2. This change allows the reuse of the existing fingerprint textual
convention and minimizes the impact to

[RFC6353]
.

A "Y" in the "Recommended" column (Table 1) indicates that the registered value has been
recommended through a formal Standards Action
Standards Track documents are necessarily marked as "Recommended".

. Not all parameters defined in

[RFC8126]

An "N" in the "Recommended" column does not necessarily mean that the value is flawed; rather,
it indicates that the item either has not been through the IETF consensus process, has limited
applicability, or is intended only for specific use cases.

The initial values for the "SNMP-TLSTM HashAlgorithms" registry are defined below:

Value

Description

Recommended

References

0

1

2

3

4

none

md5

sha1

sha224

sha256

N

N

N

Y

Y

[RFC5246]

[RFC5246]

[RFC5246]

[RFC5246]

[RFC5246]

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

Value

Description

Recommended

References

5

6

7

8

sha384

sha512

Reserved

Intrinsic

9-223

Unassigned

Y

Y

N

[RFC5246]

[RFC5246]

[RFC8447]

[RFC8422]

224-255

Reserved for Private Use

[RFC5246]

Table 1: SNMP-TLSTM Hash Algorithms

Values 0 through 2
historical consistency.

MUST NOT

 be used by implementations of this document but are listed for

2.2.  Security Level

The architecture defined in RFC 3411

[STD62]

 recognizes three levels of security:

•

without authentication and without privacy (noAuthNoPriv)

•

with authentication but without privacy (authNoPriv)

•

with authentication and with privacy (authPriv)

Cipher suites for (D)TLS 1.3 defined in
suites defined in
protection. Implementations
provide both authentication and privacy.

[RFC9150]

[RFC8446]

 provide both authentication and privacy. Cipher

 for (D)TLS 1.3 provide only authentication, without any privacy
 choose to force (D)TLS 1.3 to only allow cipher suites that

MAY

2.3.  (D)TLS Version

[RFC6353]
[RFC8996]
with (D)TLS versions 1.2 and later.

 states that TLSTM clients and servers
 prohibits the use of (D)TLS versions prior to version 1.2. TLSTM

MUST NOT

 request, offer, or use SSL 2.0.

MUST

 only be used

3.  Additional Rules for TLS 1.3

This document specifies additional rules and clarifications for the use of TLS 1.3. These rules may
additionally apply to future versions of TLS.

3.1.  Zero Round-Trip Time Resumption (0-RTT)

TLS 1.3 implementations for SNMP
(either sending or accepting) and
the server. 0-RTT is disallowed because there are no "safe" SNMP messages that, if replayed, will

 enable the 0-RTT mode of session resumption
 automatically resend 0-RTT data if it is rejected by

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

be guaranteed to cause no harm at the server side: all incoming notifications or command
responses are meant to be acted upon only once. See Section 5 ("Security Considerations") for
further details.

MUST NOT

 request, offer, or use the 0-RTT mode of TLS 1.3.

TLSTM clients and servers
removed the renegotiation supported in TLS 1.2
a zero-RTT (0-RTT) mode, saving a round trip at connection setup at the cost of increased risk of
replay attacks (it is possible for servers to guard against this attack by keeping track of all the
 requires that a profile be written for any application that wants to
messages received).
use 0-RTT, specifying which messages are "safe to use" with this mode. Within SNMP, there are no
messages that are "safe to use" with this mode.

[RFC8446]
; for session resumption, it introduced

[RFC8446]

[RFC5246]

Renegotiation of sessions is not supported, as it is not supported by TLS 1.3. If a future version of
TLS supports renegotiation, this RFC should be updated to indicate whether there are any
additional requirements related to its use.

3.2.  TLS Cipher Suites, Extensions, and Protocol Invariants

Section 9 of [RFC8446]
TLS extensions, and TLS protocol invariants be mandatory to implement. This document does
 apply.
not specify an application profile; hence, all the compliance requirements in

 requires that, in the absence of application profiles, certain cipher suites,

[RFC8446]

4.  MIB Module Definitions

This SNMP-TLS-TM-MIB module imports items from RFCs 2578, 2579, and 2580
as RFCs 3411 and 3413
. It also references
[RFC5890] [RFC5952] [RFC5953] [RFC6353]
,
,

,
[STD58]
.

, and RFC 2579

[STD62]

,

[RFC1123] [RFC5246] [RFC5280] [RFC5591]
,

[STD58]
,

, as well
,

<CODE BEGINS> file "SNMP-TLS-TM-MIB"

SNMP-TLS-TM-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
    OBJECT-IDENTITY, mib-2, snmpDomains,
    Counter32, Unsigned32, Gauge32, NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      FROM SNMPv2-SMI            -- RFC 2578 or any update thereof
    TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, TimeStamp, RowStatus, StorageType,
    AutonomousType
      FROM SNMPv2-TC             -- RFC 2579 or any update thereof
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP, NOTIFICATION-GROUP
      FROM SNMPv2-CONF           -- RFC 2580 or any update thereof
    SnmpAdminString
      FROM SNMP-FRAMEWORK-MIB    -- RFC 3411 or any update thereof
    snmpTargetParamsName, snmpTargetAddrName
      FROM SNMP-TARGET-MIB       -- RFC 3413 or any update thereof
    ;

snmpTlstmMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "202311080000Z"

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

    ORGANIZATION "Operations and Management Area Working Group
                  <mailto:opsawg@ietf.org>"
    CONTACT-INFO
            "Author: Kenneth Vaughn
                     <mailto:kvaughn@trevilon.com>"
    DESCRIPTION
       "This is the MIB module for the TLS Transport Model
        (TLSTM).

        Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified
        as authors of the code.  All rights reserved.

        Redistribution and use in source and binary forms,
        with or without modification, is permitted pursuant
        to, and subject to the license terms contained in,
        the Revised BSD License set forth in Section 4.c
        of the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
        Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info).

        The key words 'MUST', 'MUST NOT', 'REQUIRED', 'SHALL',
        'SHALL NOT', 'SHOULD', 'SHOULD NOT', 'RECOMMENDED',
        'NOT RECOMMENDED', 'MAY', and 'OPTIONAL' in this document
        are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14 (RFC 2119)
        (RFC 8174) when, and only when, they appear in all
        capitals, as shown here."

        REVISION    "202311080000Z"
        DESCRIPTION
           "This version of this MIB module is part of
            RFC 9456; see the RFC itself for full legal
            notices.  This version does the following:

               1) Updates the definition of SnmpTLSFingerprint
                  to clarify the registry used for the one-octet
                  hash algorithm identifier.

               2) Capitalizes key words in conformance with
                  BCP 14.

               3) Replaces 'may not' with 'MUST NOT' to clarify
                  intent in several locations.

               4) Replaces 'may not' with a clarification within
                  the definition of SnmpTLSAddress.

               5) Applies cosmetic grammar improvements and
                  reformatting causing whitespace changes."

       REVISION     "201107190000Z"
       DESCRIPTION
          "This version of this MIB module is part of
           RFC 6353; see the RFC itself for full legal
           notices.  The only change was to introduce
           new wording to reflect required changes for
           Internationalized Domain Names for Applications
           (IDNA) addresses in the SnmpTLSAddress textual
           convention (TC)."

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

       REVISION     "201005070000Z"
       DESCRIPTION
          "This version of this MIB module is part of
           RFC 5953; see the RFC itself for full legal
           notices."
    ::= { mib-2 198 }

-- ************************************************
-- subtrees of the SNMP-TLS-TM-MIB
-- ************************************************

snmpTlstmNotifications OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { snmpTlstmMIB 0 }
snmpTlstmIdentities    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { snmpTlstmMIB 1 }
snmpTlstmObjects       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { snmpTlstmMIB 2 }
snmpTlstmConformance   OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { snmpTlstmMIB 3 }
snmpTlstmHashAlgorithms OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS        current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A node used to register hashing algorithm identifiers
        recorded in the IANA 'SNMP-TLSTM HashAlgorithms' registry."
    ::= { snmpTlstmMIB 4 }

-- ************************************************
-- snmpTlstmObjects - Objects
-- ************************************************

snmpTLSTCPDomain OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The OBJECT IDENTIFIER representing the TDomain for the
        SNMP over TLS via TCP transport domain.  The
        corresponding transport address is of type SnmpTLSAddress.

        The securityName prefix to be associated with the
        snmpTLSTCPDomain is 'tls'.  This prefix MAY be used by
        security models or other components to identify which secure
        transport infrastructure authenticated a securityName."
    REFERENCE
      "TDomain, as defined in RFC 2579: Textual Conventions
       for SMIv2"
    ::= { snmpDomains 8 }

snmpDTLSUDPDomain OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The OBJECT IDENTIFIER representing the TDomain for the
        SNMP over DTLS via UDP transport domain.  The
        corresponding transport address is of type SnmpTLSAddress.

        The securityName prefix to be associated with the
        snmpDTLSUDPDomain is 'dtls'.  This prefix MAY be used by
        security models or other components to identify which secure
        transport infrastructure authenticated a securityName."
    REFERENCE
      "TDomain, as defined in RFC 2579: Textual Conventions
       for SMIv2"
    ::= { snmpDomains 9 }

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

SnmpTLSAddress ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    DISPLAY-HINT "1a"
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Represents an IPv4 address, an IPv6 address, or an
        ASCII-encoded host name and port number.

        An IPv4 address MUST be in dotted decimal format followed
        by a colon ':' (ASCII character 0x3A) and a decimal
        port number in ASCII.

        An IPv6 address MUST be a colon-separated format (as
        described in RFC 5952), surrounded by square brackets
        ('[', ASCII character 0x5B, and ']', ASCII character
        0x5D), followed by a colon ':' (ASCII character 0x3A)
        and a decimal port number in ASCII.

        A host name MUST be in ASCII (as per RFC 1123);
        internationalized host names MUST be encoded as A-labels as
        specified in RFC 5890.  The host name is followed by a
        colon ':' (ASCII character 0x3A) and a decimal port
        number in ASCII.  The name SHOULD be fully qualified
        whenever possible.

        Values of this textual convention are not guaranteed to be
        directly usable as transport-layer addressing information,
        potentially requiring additional processing, such as
        run-time resolution.  As such, applications that write
        them MUST be prepared for handling errors if such values
        are not supported or cannot be resolved (if resolution
        occurs at the time of the management operation).

        The DESCRIPTION clause of TransportAddress objects that
        may have SnmpTLSAddress values MUST fully describe how
        (and when) such names are to be resolved to IP addresses
        and vice versa.

        This textual convention SHOULD NOT be used directly in
        object definitions, since it restricts addresses to a
        specific format.  However, if it is used, it MAY be used
        either on its own or in conjunction with
        TransportAddressType or TransportDomain as a pair.

        When this textual convention is used as a syntax of an
        index object, there may be issues with the limit of 128
        sub-identifiers specified in SMIv2 (STD 58).  It is
        RECOMMENDED that all MIB documents using this textual
        convention make explicit any limitations on index
        component lengths that management software MUST observe.
        This MAY be done by either 1) including SIZE constraints
        on the index components or 2) specifying applicable
        constraints in the conceptual row's DESCRIPTION clause or
        in the surrounding documentation."
    REFERENCE
      "RFC 1123: Requirements for Internet Hosts - Application and
                 Support
       RFC 5890: Internationalized Domain Names for Applications
                 (IDNA): Definitions and Document Framework

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

       RFC 5952: A Recommendation for IPv6 Address Text
                 Representation"
    SYNTAX       OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..255))

SnmpTLSFingerprint ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    DISPLAY-HINT "1x:1x"
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A fingerprint value that can be used to uniquely reference
        other data of potentially arbitrary length.

        An SnmpTLSFingerprint value is composed of a one-octet
        hashing algorithm identifier followed by the fingerprint
        value.  The one-octet identifier value encoded is taken
        from the IANA 'SNMP-TLSTM HashAlgorithms' registry.  The
        remaining octets of the SnmpTLSFingerprint value are
        filled using the results of the hashing algorithm.

        Historically, the one-octet hashing algorithm identifier
        was based on the IANA 'TLS HashAlgorithm' registry
        (RFC 5246); however, this registry is no longer in use for
        TLS 1.3 and above and is not expected to have any new
        registrations added to it.  To allow the fingerprint
        algorithm to support additional hashing algorithms that
        might be used by later versions of (D)TLS, the octet value
        encoded is now taken from the IANA
        'SNMP-TLSTM HashAlgorithms' registry.  The initial values
        within this registry are identical to the values in the
        'TLS HashAlgorithm' registry but can be extended to
        support new hashing algorithms as needed.

        This textual convention allows for a zero-length (blank)
        SnmpTLSFingerprint value for use in tables where the
        fingerprint value MAY be optional.  MIB definitions or
        implementations MAY refuse to accept a zero-length value
        as appropriate."
    REFERENCE
      "RFC 5246: The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol
                 Version 1.2
       https://www.iana.org/assignments/smi-numbers/"
    SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..255))

-- Identities for use in the snmpTlstmCertToTSNTable

snmpTlstmCertToTSNMIdentities OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
                              { snmpTlstmIdentities 1 }

snmpTlstmCertSpecified OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS        current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Directly specifies the tmSecurityName to be used for this
        certificate.  The value of the tmSecurityName to use is
        specified in the 'snmpTlstmCertToTSNData' column.  The
        'snmpTlstmCertToTSNData' column MUST contain a
        non-zero-length SnmpAdminString-compliant value, or the
        mapping described in this row MUST be considered a
        failure."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNMIdentities 1 }

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

snmpTlstmCertSANRFC822Name OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS        current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Maps a subjectAltName's rfc822Name to a tmSecurityName.
        The local-part of the rfc822Name is passed unaltered, but
        the domain of the name MUST be passed in lowercase.
        This mapping results in a 1:1 correspondence between
        equivalent subjectAltName rfc822Name values and
        tmSecurityName values, except that the domain of the
        name MUST be passed in lowercase.

        Example rfc822Name field:  FooBar@Example.COM is mapped to
        tmSecurityName: FooBar@example.com."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNMIdentities 2 }

snmpTlstmCertSANDNSName OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS        current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Maps a subjectAltName's dNSName to a tmSecurityName after
        first converting it to all lowercase (RFC 5280 does not
        specify converting to lowercase, so this involves an extra
        step).  This mapping results in a 1:1 correspondence
        between subjectAltName dNSName values and the
        tmSecurityName values."
    REFERENCE
      "RFC 5280: Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure
                 Certificate and Certificate Revocation
                 List (CRL) Profile"
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNMIdentities 3 }

snmpTlstmCertSANIpAddress OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS        current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Maps a subjectAltName's iPAddress to a tmSecurityName by
        transforming the binary-encoded address as follows:

           1) For IPv4, the value is converted into a
              decimal-dotted quad address (e.g., '192.0.2.1').

           2) For IPv6 addresses, the value is converted into a
              32-character all-lowercase hexadecimal string
              without any colon separators.

        This mapping results in a 1:1 correspondence between
        subjectAltName iPAddress values and the tmSecurityName
        values.

        The resulting length of an encoded IPv6 address is the
        maximum length supported by the View-based Access Control
        Model (VACM).  Using an IPv6 address while the value of
        snmpTsmConfigurationUsePrefix is 'true' (see the
        SNMP-TSM-MIB, as defined in RFC 5591) will result in
        securityName lengths that exceed what the VACM can handle."
       REFERENCE
         "RFC 5591: Transport Security Model for the Simple Network
                    Management Protocol (SNMP)"
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNMIdentities 4 }

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

snmpTlstmCertSANAny OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS        current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Maps any of the following fields using the corresponding
        mapping algorithms:

        |------------+----------------------------|
        | Type       | Algorithm                  |
        |------------+----------------------------|
        | rfc822Name | snmpTlstmCertSANRFC822Name |
        | dNSName    | snmpTlstmCertSANDNSName    |
        | iPAddress  | snmpTlstmCertSANIpAddress  |
        |------------+----------------------------|

        The first subjectAltName value contained in the certificate
        that matches any of the above types MUST be used when
        deriving the tmSecurityName.  The mapping algorithm
        specified in the 'Algorithm' column of the corresponding
        row MUST be used to derive the tmSecurityName.

        This mapping results in a 1:1 correspondence between
        subjectAltName values and tmSecurityName values.  The
        three sub-mapping algorithms produced by this combined
        algorithm cannot produce conflicting results between
        themselves."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNMIdentities 5 }

snmpTlstmCertCommonName OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS        current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Maps a certificate's CommonName to a tmSecurityName after
        converting it to a UTF-8 encoding.  The usage of
        CommonNames is deprecated, and users are encouraged to use
        subjectAltName mapping methods instead.  This mapping
        results in a 1:1 correspondence between certificate
        CommonName values and tmSecurityName values."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNMIdentities 6 }

-- The snmpTlstmSession Group

snmpTlstmSession         OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { snmpTlstmObjects 1 }

snmpTlstmSessionOpens  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of times an openSession() request has been
        executed as a (D)TLS client, regardless of whether it
        succeeded or failed."
    ::= { snmpTlstmSession 1 }

snmpTlstmSessionClientCloses  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

       "The number of times a closeSession() request has been
        executed as a (D)TLS client, regardless of whether it
        succeeded or failed."
    ::= { snmpTlstmSession 2 }

snmpTlstmSessionOpenErrors  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of times an openSession() request failed to
        open a session as a (D)TLS client, for any reason."
    ::= { snmpTlstmSession 3 }

snmpTlstmSessionAccepts  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of times a (D)TLS server has accepted a new
        connection from a client and has received at least one
        SNMP message through it."
    ::= { snmpTlstmSession 4 }

snmpTlstmSessionServerCloses  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of times a closeSession() request has been
        executed as a (D)TLS server, regardless of whether it
        succeeded or failed."
    ::= { snmpTlstmSession 5 }

snmpTlstmSessionNoSessions  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of times an outgoing message was dropped
        because the session associated with the passed
        tmStateReference was no longer (or never) available."
    ::= { snmpTlstmSession 6 }

snmpTlstmSessionInvalidClientCertificates OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of times an incoming session was not
        established on a (D)TLS server because the presented
        client certificate was invalid.  Reasons for invalidation
        include, but are not limited to, cryptographic validation
        failures or lack of a suitable mapping row in the
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNTable."
    ::= { snmpTlstmSession 7 }

snmpTlstmSessionUnknownServerCertificate OBJECT-TYPE

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of times an outgoing session was not
        established on a (D)TLS client because the server
        certificate presented by an SNMP over (D)TLS server was
        invalid because no configured fingerprint or Certification
        Authority (CA) was acceptable to validate it.  This may
        result because there was no entry in the
        snmpTlstmAddrTable or because no path to a known CA could
        be found."
    ::= { snmpTlstmSession 8 }

snmpTlstmSessionInvalidServerCertificates OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of times an outgoing session was not
        established on a (D)TLS client because the server
        certificate presented by an SNMP over (D)TLS server could
        not be validated even if the fingerprint or expected
        validation path was known.  That is, a cryptographic
        validation error occurred during certificate validation
        processing.

        Reasons for invalidation include, but are not limited to,
        cryptographic validation failures."
    ::= { snmpTlstmSession 9 }

snmpTlstmSessionInvalidCaches OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of outgoing messages dropped because the
        tmStateReference referred to an invalid cache."
    ::= { snmpTlstmSession 10 }

-- Configuration Objects

snmpTlstmConfig          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { snmpTlstmObjects 2 }

-- Certificate mapping

snmpTlstmCertificateMapping OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
                            { snmpTlstmConfig 1 }

snmpTlstmCertToTSNCount OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A count of the number of entries in the
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNTable."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertificateMapping 1 }

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

snmpTlstmCertToTSNTableLastChanged OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The value of sysUpTime.0 when the snmpTlstmCertToTSNTable
        was last modified through any means, or 0 if it has not
        been modified since the command responder was started."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertificateMapping 2 }

snmpTlstmCertToTSNTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF SnmpTlstmCertToTSNEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This table is used by a (D)TLS server to map the (D)TLS
        client's presented X.509 certificate to a tmSecurityName.

        On an incoming (D)TLS/SNMP connection, the client's
        presented certificate either MUST be validated based on an
        established trust anchor or MUST directly match a
        fingerprint in this table.  This table does not provide
        any mechanisms for configuring the trust anchors; the
        transfer of any needed trusted certificates for path
        validation is expected to occur through an out-of-band
        transfer.

        Once the certificate has been found acceptable (either via
        path validation or by directly matching a fingerprint in
        this table), this table is consulted to determine the
        appropriate tmSecurityName to identify with the remote
        connection.  This is done by considering each active row
        from this table in prioritized order according to its
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNID value.  Each row's
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNFingerprint value determines whether the
        row is a match for the incoming connection:

           1) If the row's snmpTlstmCertToTSNFingerprint value
              identifies the presented certificate, then consider
              the row as a successful match.

           2) If the row's snmpTlstmCertToTSNFingerprint value
              identifies a locally held copy of a trusted CA
              certificate and that CA certificate was used to
              validate the path to the presented certificate, then
              consider the row as a successful match.

        Once a matching row has been found, the
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNMapType value can be used to determine
        how the tmSecurityName to associate with the session
        should be determined.  See the 'snmpTlstmCertToTSNMapType'
        column's DESCRIPTION clause for details on determining the
        tmSecurityName value.  If it is impossible to determine a
        tmSecurityName from the row's data combined with the data
        presented in the certificate, then additional rows MUST be
        searched to look for another potential match.  If a
        resulting tmSecurityName mapped from a given row is not
        compatible with the needed requirements of a

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

        tmSecurityName (e.g., the VACM imposes a 32-octet-maximum
        length and the certificate-derived securityName could be
        longer), then it MUST be considered an invalid match and
        additional rows MUST be searched to look for another
        potential match.

        If no matching and valid row can be found, the connection
        MUST be closed and SNMP messages MUST NOT be accepted over
        it.

        Missing values of snmpTlstmCertToTSNID are acceptable, and
        implementations SHOULD continue to the
        next-highest-numbered row.  It is RECOMMENDED that
        administrators skip index values to leave room for the
        insertion of future rows (for example, use values of 10
        and 20 when creating initial rows).

        Users are encouraged to make use of certificates with
        subjectAltName fields that can be used as tmSecurityNames.
        This allows all child certificates of a single root CA
        certificate to include a subjectAltName that maps directly
        to a tmSecurityName via a 1:1 transformation.  However,
        this table is flexible, to allow for situations where
        existing deployed certificate infrastructures do not provide
        adequate subjectAltName values for use as tmSecurityNames.
        Certificates MAY also be mapped to tmSecurityNames using
        the CommonName portion of the Subject field.  However, the
        usage of the CommonName field is deprecated, and thus this
        usage is NOT RECOMMENDED.  Direct mapping from each
        individual certificate fingerprint to a tmSecurityName is
        also possible but requires one entry in the table per
        tmSecurityName and requires more management operations to
        completely configure a device."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertificateMapping 3 }

snmpTlstmCertToTSNEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SnmpTlstmCertToTSNEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A row in the snmpTlstmCertToTSNTable that specifies a
        mapping for an incoming (D)TLS certificate to a
        tmSecurityName to use for a connection."
    INDEX   { snmpTlstmCertToTSNID }
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNTable 1 }

SnmpTlstmCertToTSNEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    snmpTlstmCertToTSNID           Unsigned32,
    snmpTlstmCertToTSNFingerprint  SnmpTLSFingerprint,
    snmpTlstmCertToTSNMapType      AutonomousType,
    snmpTlstmCertToTSNData         OCTET STRING,
    snmpTlstmCertToTSNStorageType  StorageType,
    snmpTlstmCertToTSNRowStatus    RowStatus
}

snmpTlstmCertToTSNID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Unsigned32 (1..4294967295)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A unique, prioritized index for the given entry.  Lower
        numbers indicate a higher priority."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNEntry 1 }

snmpTlstmCertToTSNFingerprint OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SnmpTLSFingerprint (SIZE (1..255))
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A cryptographic hash of an X.509 certificate.  The results
        of a successful matching fingerprint to either the trusted
        CA in the certificate validation path or the certificate
        itself is dictated by the 'snmpTlstmCertToTSNMapType'
        column."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNEntry 2 }

snmpTlstmCertToTSNMapType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AutonomousType
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Specifies the mapping type for deriving a tmSecurityName
        from a certificate.  Details for mapping of a particular
        type SHALL be specified in the DESCRIPTION clause of the
        OBJECT-IDENTITY that describes the mapping.  If a mapping
        succeeds, it will return a tmSecurityName for use by the
        TLSTM and processing will stop.

        If the resulting mapped value is not compatible with the
        needed requirements of a tmSecurityName (e.g., the VACM
        imposes a 32-octet-maximum length and the
        certificate-derived securityName could be longer), then
        future rows MUST be searched for additional
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNFingerprint matches to look for a
        mapping that succeeds.

        Suitable values for assigning to this object that are
        defined within the SNMP-TLS-TM-MIB can be found in the
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNMIdentities portion of the MIB tree."
    DEFVAL { snmpTlstmCertSpecified }
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNEntry 3 }

snmpTlstmCertToTSNData OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..1024))
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Auxiliary data used as optional configuration information
        for a given mapping specified by the
        'snmpTlstmCertToTSNMapType' column.  Only some mapping
        systems will make use of this column.  The value in this
        column MUST be ignored for any mapping type that does not
        require that data be present in this column."
    DEFVAL { "" }
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNEntry 4 }

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

snmpTlstmCertToTSNStorageType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       StorageType
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The storage type for this conceptual row.  Conceptual rows
        having the value 'permanent' need not allow write-access
        to any columnar objects in the row."
    DEFVAL      { nonVolatile }
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNEntry 5 }

snmpTlstmCertToTSNRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The status of this conceptual row.  This object MAY be
        used to create or remove rows from this table.

        To create a row in this table, an administrator MUST set
        this object to either createAndGo(4) or createAndWait(5).

        Until instances of all corresponding columns are
        appropriately configured, the value of the corresponding
        instance of the 'snmpTlstmParamsRowStatus' column is
        notReady(3).

        In particular, a newly created row cannot be made active
        until the corresponding 'snmpTlstmCertToTSNFingerprint',
        'snmpTlstmCertToTSNMapType', and 'snmpTlstmCertToTSNData'
        columns have been set.

        The following objects MUST NOT be modified while the
        value of this object is active(1):

           - snmpTlstmCertToTSNFingerprint
           - snmpTlstmCertToTSNMapType
           - snmpTlstmCertToTSNData

        An attempt to set these objects while the value of
        snmpTlstmParamsRowStatus is active(1) will result in
        an inconsistentValue error."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertToTSNEntry 6 }

-- Maps tmSecurityNames to certificates for use by the
-- SNMP-TARGET-MIB

snmpTlstmParamsCount OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A count of the number of entries in the
        snmpTlstmParamsTable."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertificateMapping 4 }

snmpTlstmParamsTableLastChanged OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The value of sysUpTime.0 when the snmpTlstmParamsTable
        was last modified through any means, or 0 if it has not
        been modified since the command responder was started."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertificateMapping 5 }

snmpTlstmParamsTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF SnmpTlstmParamsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This table is used by a (D)TLS client when a (D)TLS
        connection is being set up using an entry in the
        SNMP-TARGET-MIB.  It extends the SNMP-TARGET-MIB's
        snmpTargetParamsTable with a fingerprint of a certificate
        to use when establishing such a (D)TLS connection."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertificateMapping 6 }

snmpTlstmParamsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SnmpTlstmParamsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A conceptual row containing a fingerprint hash of a
        locally held certificate for a given
        snmpTargetParamsEntry.  The values in this row SHOULD be
        ignored if the connection that needs to be established, as
        indicated by the SNMP-TARGET-MIB infrastructure, is not a
        certificate-based and (D)TLS-based connection.  The
        connection SHOULD NOT be established if the certificate
        fingerprint stored in this entry does not point to a valid
        locally held certificate or if it points to an unusable
        certificate (such as might happen when the certificate's
        expiration date has been reached)."
    INDEX    { IMPLIED snmpTargetParamsName }
    ::= { snmpTlstmParamsTable 1 }

SnmpTlstmParamsEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    snmpTlstmParamsClientFingerprint SnmpTLSFingerprint,
    snmpTlstmParamsStorageType       StorageType,
    snmpTlstmParamsRowStatus         RowStatus
}

snmpTlstmParamsClientFingerprint OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SnmpTLSFingerprint
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This object stores the hash of the public portion of a
        locally held X.509 certificate.  The X.509 certificate,
        its public key, and the corresponding private key will be
        used when initiating a (D)TLS connection as a (D)TLS
        client."
    ::= { snmpTlstmParamsEntry 1 }

snmpTlstmParamsStorageType OBJECT-TYPE

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

    SYNTAX       StorageType
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The storage type for this conceptual row.  Conceptual rows
        having the value 'permanent' need not allow write-access
        to any columnar objects in the row."
    DEFVAL      { nonVolatile }
    ::= { snmpTlstmParamsEntry 2 }

snmpTlstmParamsRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The status of this conceptual row.  This object MAY be
        used to create or remove rows from this table.

        To create a row in this table, an administrator MUST set
        this object to either createAndGo(4) or createAndWait(5).

        Until instances of all corresponding columns are
        appropriately configured, the value of the corresponding
        instance of the 'snmpTlstmParamsRowStatus' column is
        notReady(3).

        In particular, a newly created row cannot be made active
        until the corresponding 'snmpTlstmParamsClientFingerprint'
        column has been set.

        The snmpTlstmParamsClientFingerprint object MUST NOT be
        modified while the value of this object is active(1).

        An attempt to set these objects while the value of
        snmpTlstmParamsRowStatus is active(1) will result in
        an inconsistentValue error."
    ::= { snmpTlstmParamsEntry 3 }

snmpTlstmAddrCount OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A count of the number of entries in the
        snmpTlstmAddrTable."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertificateMapping 7 }

snmpTlstmAddrTableLastChanged OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The value of sysUpTime.0 when the snmpTlstmAddrTable
        was last modified through any means, or 0 if it has not
        been modified since the command responder was started."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertificateMapping 8 }

snmpTlstmAddrTable OBJECT-TYPE

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF SnmpTlstmAddrEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This table is used by a (D)TLS client when a (D)TLS
        connection is being set up using an entry in the
        SNMP-TARGET-MIB.  It extends the SNMP-TARGET-MIB's
        snmpTargetAddrTable so that the client can verify that the
        correct server has been reached.  This verification can
        use either 1) a certificate fingerprint or 2) an
        identity authenticated via certification path validation.

        If there is an active row in this table corresponding to
        the entry in the SNMP-TARGET-MIB that was used to
        establish the connection and the row's
        'snmpTlstmAddrServerFingerprint' column has a non-empty
        value, then the server's presented certificate is compared
        with the snmpTlstmAddrServerFingerprint value (and the
        'snmpTlstmAddrServerIdentity' column is ignored).  If the
        fingerprint matches, the verification has succeeded.  If
        the fingerprint does not match, then the connection MUST
        be closed.

        If the server's presented certificate has passed
        certification path validation (RFC 5280) to a configured
        trust anchor and an active row exists with a zero-length
        snmpTlstmAddrServerFingerprint value, then the
        'snmpTlstmAddrServerIdentity' column contains the expected
        host name.  This expected host name is then compared
        against the server's certificate as follows:

           - Implementations MUST support matching the expected
             host name against a dNSName in the subjectAltName
             extension field and MAY support checking the name
             against the CommonName portion of the subject
             distinguished name.

           - The '*' (ASCII 0x2A) wildcard character is allowed in
             the dNSName of the subjectAltName extension (and in
             CommonName, if used to store the host name), but
             only as the leftmost (least significant) DNS label
             in that value.  This wildcard matches any leftmost
             DNS label in the server name.  That is, the subject
             *.example.com matches the server names a.example.com
             and b.example.com but does not match example.com or
             a.b.example.com.  Implementations MUST support
             wildcards in certificates as specified above but MAY
             provide a configuration option to disable them.

           - If the locally configured name is an
             internationalized domain name, conforming
             implementations MUST convert it to the ASCII
             Compatible Encoding (ACE) format for performing
             comparisons, as specified in Section 7 of RFC 5280.

        If the expected host name fails these conditions, then the
        connection MUST be closed.

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

        If there is no row in this table corresponding to the
        entry in the SNMP-TARGET-MIB and the server can be
        authorized by another, implementation-dependent means,
        then the connection MAY still proceed."
    ::= { snmpTlstmCertificateMapping 9 }

snmpTlstmAddrEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SnmpTlstmAddrEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A conceptual row containing a copy of a certificate's
        fingerprint for a given snmpTargetAddrEntry.  The values
        in this row SHOULD be ignored if the connection that needs
        to be established, as indicated by the SNMP-TARGET-MIB
        infrastructure, is not a (D)TLS-based connection.  If an
        snmpTlstmAddrEntry exists for a given snmpTargetAddrEntry,
        then the presented server certificate MUST match or the
        connection MUST NOT be established.  If a row in this
        table does not exist to match an snmpTargetAddrEntry row,
        then the connection SHOULD still proceed if some other
        certification path validation algorithm (e.g., RFC 5280)
        can be used."
    INDEX    { IMPLIED snmpTargetAddrName }
    ::= { snmpTlstmAddrTable 1 }

SnmpTlstmAddrEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    snmpTlstmAddrServerFingerprint    SnmpTLSFingerprint,
    snmpTlstmAddrServerIdentity       SnmpAdminString,
    snmpTlstmAddrStorageType          StorageType,
    snmpTlstmAddrRowStatus            RowStatus
}

snmpTlstmAddrServerFingerprint OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SnmpTLSFingerprint
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A cryptographic hash of a public X.509 certificate.  This
        object should store the hash of the public X.509
        certificate that the remote server should present during
        the (D)TLS connection setup.  The fingerprint of the
        presented certificate and this hash value MUST match
        exactly, or the connection MUST NOT be established."
    DEFVAL { "" }
    ::= { snmpTlstmAddrEntry 1 }

snmpTlstmAddrServerIdentity OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SnmpAdminString
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The reference identity to check against the identity
        presented by the remote system."
    DEFVAL { "" }
    ::= { snmpTlstmAddrEntry 2 }

snmpTlstmAddrStorageType OBJECT-TYPE

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

    SYNTAX       StorageType
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The storage type for this conceptual row.  Conceptual rows
        having the value 'permanent' need not allow write-access
        to any columnar objects in the row."
    DEFVAL      { nonVolatile }
    ::= { snmpTlstmAddrEntry 3 }

snmpTlstmAddrRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The status of this conceptual row.  This object may be
        used to create or remove rows from this table.

        To create a row in this table, an administrator MUST set
        this object to either createAndGo(4) or createAndWait(5).

        Until instances of all corresponding columns are
        appropriately configured, the value of the corresponding
        instance of the 'snmpTlstmAddrRowStatus' column is
        notReady(3).

        In particular, a newly created row cannot be made active
        until the corresponding 'snmpTlstmAddrServerFingerprint'
        column has been set.

        Rows MUST NOT be active if the
        'snmpTlstmAddrServerFingerprint' column is blank and the
        snmpTlstmAddrServerIdentity is set to '*', since this
        would insecurely accept any presented certificate.

        The snmpTlstmAddrServerFingerprint object MUST NOT be
        modified while the value of this object is active(1).

        An attempt to set these objects while the value of
        snmpTlstmAddrRowStatus is active(1) will result in
        an inconsistentValue error."
    ::= { snmpTlstmAddrEntry 4 }

-- ************************************************
--  snmpTlstmNotifications - Notifications Information
-- ************************************************

snmpTlstmServerCertificateUnknown NOTIFICATION-TYPE
    OBJECTS { snmpTlstmSessionUnknownServerCertificate }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Notification that the server certificate presented by an
        SNMP over (D)TLS server was invalid because no configured
        fingerprint or CA was acceptable to validate it.  This may
        be because there was no entry in the snmpTlstmAddrTable or
        because no path to a known CA could be found.

        To avoid notification loops, this notification MUST NOT be

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

        sent to servers that themselves have triggered the
        notification."
    ::= { snmpTlstmNotifications 1 }

snmpTlstmServerInvalidCertificate NOTIFICATION-TYPE
    OBJECTS {
        snmpTlstmAddrServerFingerprint,
        snmpTlstmSessionInvalidServerCertificates
    }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Notification that the server certificate presented by an
        SNMP over (D)TLS server could not be validated even if the
        fingerprint or expected validation path was known.
        That is, a cryptographic validation error occurred during
        certificate validation processing.

        To avoid notification loops, this notification MUST NOT be
        sent to servers that themselves have triggered the
        notification."
    ::= { snmpTlstmNotifications 2 }

-- ************************************************
-- snmpTlstmCompliances - Conformance Information
-- ************************************************

snmpTlstmCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { snmpTlstmConformance 1 }

snmpTlstmGroups OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { snmpTlstmConformance 2 }

-- ************************************************
-- Compliance statements
-- ************************************************

snmpTlstmCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The compliance statement for SNMP engines that support the
        SNMP-TLS-TM-MIB."
    MODULE
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { snmpTlstmStatsGroup,
                           snmpTlstmIncomingGroup,
                           snmpTlstmOutgoingGroup,
                           snmpTlstmNotificationGroup }
    ::= { snmpTlstmCompliances 1 }

-- ************************************************
-- Units of conformance
-- ************************************************

snmpTlstmStatsGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        snmpTlstmSessionOpens,
        snmpTlstmSessionClientCloses,
        snmpTlstmSessionOpenErrors,
        snmpTlstmSessionAccepts,
        snmpTlstmSessionServerCloses,
        snmpTlstmSessionNoSessions,

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

        snmpTlstmSessionInvalidClientCertificates,
        snmpTlstmSessionUnknownServerCertificate,
        snmpTlstmSessionInvalidServerCertificates,
        snmpTlstmSessionInvalidCaches
    }
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A collection of objects for maintaining statistical
        information of an SNMP engine that implements the SNMP
        TLSTM."
    ::= { snmpTlstmGroups 1 }

snmpTlstmIncomingGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNCount,
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNTableLastChanged,
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNFingerprint,
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNMapType,
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNData,
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNStorageType,
        snmpTlstmCertToTSNRowStatus
    }
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A collection of objects for maintaining incoming
        connection certificate mappings to tmSecurityNames of an
        SNMP engine that implements the SNMP TLSTM."
    ::= { snmpTlstmGroups 2 }

snmpTlstmOutgoingGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        snmpTlstmParamsCount,
        snmpTlstmParamsTableLastChanged,
        snmpTlstmParamsClientFingerprint,
        snmpTlstmParamsStorageType,
        snmpTlstmParamsRowStatus,
        snmpTlstmAddrCount,
        snmpTlstmAddrTableLastChanged,
        snmpTlstmAddrServerFingerprint,
        snmpTlstmAddrServerIdentity,
        snmpTlstmAddrStorageType,
        snmpTlstmAddrRowStatus
    }
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A collection of objects for maintaining outgoing
        connection certificates to use when opening connections as
        a result of SNMP-TARGET-MIB settings."
    ::= { snmpTlstmGroups 3 }

snmpTlstmNotificationGroup NOTIFICATION-GROUP
    NOTIFICATIONS {
        snmpTlstmServerCertificateUnknown,
        snmpTlstmServerInvalidCertificate
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Notifications."

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

    ::= { snmpTlstmGroups 4 }

END

<CODE ENDS>

5.  Security Considerations

This document updates a transport model that permits SNMP to utilize (D)TLS security services.
The security threats and how the TLSTM mitigates these threats are covered throughout this
document and in
. Security considerations for TLS are described in Section 10 and
Appendix E of TLS 1.3
DTLS 1.3

. Security considerations for DTLS are described in Section 11 of

[RFC9147]
.

[RFC6353]

[RFC8446]

Implementations should consider the latest recommendations on the use of (DTLS), such as those
documented in

[RFC9325]
.

SNMP versions prior to SNMPv3 did not include adequate security. Even if the network itself is
secure (for example, by using IPsec), there is no control as to who on the secure network is
allowed to access and GET/SET (read/change/create/delete) the objects in this MIB module.

RECOMMENDED

It is
another secure-transport-aware security model be sent over the TLSTM transport.

 that only SNMPv3 messages using the Transport Security Model (TSM) or

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created a new registry called "SNMP-TLSTM HashAlgorithms" within the "Structure of
Management Information (SMI) Numbers (MIB Module Registrations)" group. The description of
this registry is "iso.org.dod.internet.mgmt.mib-2.snmpTlstmMIB.snmpTlstmHashAlgorithms
(1.3.6.1.2.1.198.4)".

The registry has the following fields: Value, Description, Recommended, and References. The
range of values is zero to 255, with initial assignments shown in Section 2.1. The "Recommended"
column indicates "Y" for hashing algorithms that are Standards Track and are deemed to be
acceptable for widely applicable current use and "N" for hashing algorithms that reflect
meanings that are not recommended (e.g., they do not provide sufficient security for modern
systems, they are not Standards Track, and they have limited applicability). A blank field
indicates that no recommendation is made (e.g., because the value is unassigned or left for
private use).

This registry is expected to be updated infrequently; as such, its values are limited to one octet.

The policy for updates to the "SNMP-TLSTM HashAlgorithms" registry is Expert Review
[RFC8126]
mailing list. Registration requests sent to the mailing list for review

<mailto:snmp-tlstm-reg-review@ietf.org>
SHOULD

. Registry requests should be sent to the

 use an appropriate

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

subject (e.g., 'Request to register value in "SNMP-TLSTM HashAlgorithms" registry'). In addition,
designated experts should consult with the
 mailing list to make
sure that any new hash algorithms are considered for inclusion in this registry.

<mailto:tls-reg-review@ietf.org>

SHOULD

SHOULD

 ascertain the existence of suitable documentation that defines a
 also verify that the request does not conflict with or duplicate other

Designated experts
hash algorithm and
entries in the registry. The experts should also provide a recommendation as to how the
"Recommended" column of the registry should be updated. Only publicly available specifications
that represent current industry- accepted practices should receive an assignment of "Y" in the
"Recommended" column; all other specific assignments in the registry should receive an
assignment of "N". Assignments that are nonspecific (e.g., reserved values)
SHOULD NOT
an assigned value for the "Recommended" column.

 receive

Within the three-week review period, the designated experts will either approve or deny the
registration request, communicating this decision to the review list and IANA. Denials
SHOULD
include an explanation and, if applicable, suggestions as to how to make the request successful.
Registration requests that are undetermined for a period longer than three weeks can be brought
to the IESG's attention (using the

 mailing list) for resolution.

<mailto:iesg@ietf.org>

MUST

 only accept registry updates from the designated experts and
IANA
requests for registration to the review mailing list. While future additions to the "TLS
HashAlgorithm" registry (i.e., the registry from which the "SNMP-TLSTM HashAlgorithms"
registry was spawned) are not expected, any future additions to the "TLS HashAlgorithm"
registry
registry.

 be consistent with the values assigned in the "SNMP-TLSTM HashAlgorithms"

 direct all

SHOULD

MUST

It is suggested that multiple designated experts be appointed who are able to represent the
perspectives of different applications using this specification, in order to enable broadly
informed reviews of registration decisions. In cases where a registration decision could be
perceived as creating a conflict of interest for a particular expert, that expert
the judgment of the other experts.

SHOULD

 defer to

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC1123]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3410]

,

Braden, R., Ed. "Requirements for Internet Hosts - Application and Support"
STD 3 RFC 1123 DOI 10.17487/RFC1123
editor.org/info/rfc1123>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 1989,

.

,

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Case, J. Mundy, R. Partain, D.
Statements for Internet-Standard Management Framework" RFC 3410 DOI
10.17487/RFC3410

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3410>

B. Stewart "Introduction and Applicability

, December 2002,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

[RFC5280]

[RFC5890]

[RFC5952]

[RFC6353]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

[STD58]

[STD62]

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Definitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

,

,

.

,

Kawamura, S.
 and
Representation" RFC 5952 DOI 10.17487/RFC5952
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5952>

,

.

M. Kawashima "A Recommendation for IPv6 Address Text

,

, August 2010,

<https://

,

Hardaker, W. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Transport Model for the Simple
Network Management Protocol (SNMP)" STD 78 RFC 6353 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6353

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6353>

, July 2011,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

McCloghrie, K., Ed. Perkins, D., Ed.
,
Management Information Version 2 (SMIv2)" STD 58 RFC 2578

J. Schoenwaelder, Ed. "Structure of
, April 1999.

, and

,

,

,

McCloghrie, K., Ed. Perkins, D., Ed.
Conventions for SMIv2" STD 58 RFC 2579

, and

,

,

,

, April 1999.

J. Schoenwaelder, Ed. "Textual

,

McCloghrie, K., Ed. Perkins, D., Ed.
, and
,
Statements for SMIv2" STD 58 RFC 2580

,

,

J. Schoenwaelder, Ed. "Conformance
, April 1999.

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/std58>

,

Harrington, D. Presuhn, R.
Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) Management Frameworks" STD
62 RFC 3411

B. Wijnen "An Architecture for Describing
,

, December 2002.

, and

,

,

,

Case, J. Harrington, D. Presuhn, R.
Dispatching for the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)" STD 62 RFC
3412

B. Wijnen "Message Processing and
,

, December 2002.

, and

,

,

,

Levi, D. Meyer, P.
,
, and
(SNMP) Applications" STD 62 RFC 3413
,

B. Stewart "Simple Network Management Protocol
, December 2002.

,

,

 and

Blumenthal, U.
the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)" STD 62 RFC 3414
December 2002.

B. Wijnen "User-based Security Model (USM) for version 3 of

,

,

,

,

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

Wijnen, B. Presuhn, R.
,
(VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)" STD 62 RFC
3415

K. McCloghrie "View-based Access Control Model

, December 2002.

, and

,

,

,

Presuhn, R., Ed. "Version 2 of the Protocol Operations for the Simple Network
Management Protocol (SNMP)" STD 62 RFC 3416
,

, December 2002.

,

,

Presuhn, R., Ed. "Transport Mappings for the Simple Network Management
Protocol (SNMP)" STD 62 RFC 3417
,

, December 2002.

,

,

Presuhn, R., Ed. "Management Information Base (MIB) for the Simple Network
Management Protocol (SNMP)" STD 62 RFC 3418
,

, December 2002.

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/std62>

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC5246]

[RFC5591]

[RFC5953]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8422]

[RFC8447]

[RFC8996]

[RFC9147]

Dierks, T.
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
,
info/rfc5246>

E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
 and
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
,
.

, August 2008,

,

 and

Harrington, D.
Network Management Protocol (SNMP)" STD 78 RFC 5591 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5591

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5591>

W. Hardaker "Transport Security Model for the Simple

, June 2009,

,

,

,

.

,

Hardaker, W. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Transport Model for the Simple
Network Management Protocol (SNMP)" RFC 5953 DOI 10.17487/RFC5953
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5953>

,

,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

, and

M. Pegourie-Gonnard "Elliptic Curve Cryptography

Nir, Y. Josefsson, S.
(ECC) Cipher Suites for Transport Layer Security (TLS) Versions 1.2 and Earlier"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 8422 DOI 10.17487/RFC8422
, August 2018,
rfc8422>

,
.

,

Salowey, J.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8447

S. Turner "IANA Registry Updates for TLS and DTLS" RFC 8447
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8447>
.

, August 2018,

 and

,

,

Moriarty, K.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8996

 and

S. Farrell "Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1" BCP 195 RFC 8996
,

,

,

,

, March 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8996>

.

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9456

Updates to the TLSTM for SNMP

November 2023

[RFC9150]

[RFC9325]

Cam-Winget, N.
Suites" RFC 9150 DOI 10.17487/RFC9150
,
editor.org/info/rfc9150>

 and
,

.

J. Visoky "TLS 1.3 Authentication and Integrity-Only Cipher

,

, April 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

,

,

Acknowledgements

This document is based on
helped provide useful comments:
Tom Petch
.

[RFC6353]

. This document was reviewed by the following people, who
,

Michaela Vanderveen Joe Clarke Jürgen Schönwälder

, and

,

Author's Address

editor
)

Kenneth Vaughn (
Trevilon LLC
1060 Highway 107 South
Del Rio TN 37727
United States of America
Phone:
 +1 571 331 5670
Email:
 kvaughn@trevilon.com

,

Vaughn

Standards Track

Page 30

