Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9725
8840, 8842
Standards Track
March 2025
2070-1721
S. Garcia Murillo
Millicast

A. Gouaillard
CoSMo Software

RFC 9725
WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP)

Abstract

This document describes a simple HTTP-based protocol that will allow WebRTC-based ingestion
of content into streaming services and/or Content Delivery Networks (CDNs).

This document updates RFCs 8840 and 8842.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9725
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Overview

4.  Protocol Operation

4.1.  HTTP Usage

4.2.  Ingest Session Setup

4.3.  ICE Support

4.3.1.  HTTP PATCH Request Usage

4.3.2.  Trickle ICE

4.3.3.  ICE Restarts

4.4.  WebRTC Constraints

4.4.1.  SDP Bundle

4.4.2.  Single MediaStream

4.4.3.  No Partially Successful Answers

4.4.4.  DTLS Setup Role and SDP "setup" Attribute

4.4.5.  Trickle ICE and ICE Restarts

4.5.  Load Balancing and Redirections

4.6.  STUN/TURN Server Configuration

4.6.1.  Congestion Control

4.7.  Authentication and Authorization

4.7.1.  Bearer Token Authentication

4.8.  Simulcast and Scalable Video Coding

4.9.  Protocol Extensions

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Link Relation Type: ice-server

6.2.  URN Sub-namespace for WHIP (urn:ietf:params:whip)

3

4

4

6

6

6

10

10

11

12

14

14

15

15

15

15

16

16

17

17

18

18

18

19

20

20

20

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

6.3.  WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) URNs Registry

6.4.  WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) Extension URNs Registry

6.5.  Registering WHIP URNs and WHIP Extension URNs

6.5.1.  Registration Procedure

6.5.2.  Guidance for the Designated Expert

6.5.3.  Registration Template

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

21

21

22

22

22

23

23

23

26

27

28

[RFC9429]

, a mechanism used to control the setup, management, and teardown of a

The IETF RTCWEB Working Group standardized the JavaScript Session Establishment Protocol
(JSEP)
multimedia session. It also describes how to negotiate media flows using the offer/answer model
[RFC3264]
with the Session Description Protocol (SDP)
, including the formats for data sent over
the wire (e.g., media types, codec parameters, and encryption). WebRTC intentionally does not
specify a signaling transport protocol at the application level.

Unfortunately, the lack of a standardized signaling mechanism in WebRTC has been an obstacle
to its adoption as an ingestion protocol within the broadcast and streaming industry, where a
streamlined production pipeline is taken for granted. For example, cables carrying raw media to
hardware encoders are plugged in and then the encoded media is pushed to any streaming
service or Content Delivery Network (CDN) using an ingestion protocol.

While WebRTC can be integrated with standard signaling protocols like SIP
Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP)
in broadcasting and streaming services, and there is also no sign of adoption in that industry.
[RFC7826]
The Real-Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP)
SDP offer/answer model

[RFC3261]
, they are not designed to be used

 for negotiating the characteristics of the media session.

, which is based on RTP, does not support the

[RFC3264]

[RFC6120]

 or

This document proposes a simple protocol based on HTTP for supporting WebRTC as a media
ingestion method that:

•

is easy to implement,

•

is as easy to use as popular IP-based broadcast protocols,

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

•

is fully compliant with WebRTC and RTCWEB specs,

•

enables ingestion on both classical media platforms and WebRTC end-to-end platforms
(achieving the lowest possible latency),

•

lowers the requirements on both hardware encoders and broadcasting services to support
WebRTC, and

•

is usable in both web browsers and standalone encoders.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Overview

The WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) is designed to facilitate a one-time exchange of
Session Description Protocol (SDP) offers and answers using HTTP POST requests. This exchange
is a fundamental step in establishing an Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) and
Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) session between the WHIP client, which represents
the encoder or media producer, and the media server, which is the broadcasting ingestion
endpoint.

Upon successful establishment of the ICE/DTLS session, unidirectional media data transmission
commences from the WHIP client to the media server. It is important to note that SDP
renegotiations are not supported in WHIP. This means that no modifications to the "m=" sections
can be made after the initial SDP offer/answer exchange via HTTP POST is completed and that
only ICE-related information can be updated via HTTP PATCH requests as defined in Section 4.3.

The following diagram illustrates the core operation of WHIP for initiating and terminating an
ingest session:

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

+-------------+    +---------------+ +--------------+ +---------------+
| WHIP client |    | WHIP endpoint | | Media server | | WHIP session  |
+--+----------+    +---------+-----+ +------+-------+ +--------|------+
   |                         |              |                  |
   |                         |              |                  |
   |HTTP POST (SDP offer)    |              |                  |
   +------------------------>+              |                  |
   |201 Created (SDP answer) |              |                  |
   +<------------------------+              |                  |
   |          ICE/STUN REQUEST              |                  |
   +--------------------------------------->+                  |
   |          ICE/STUN RESPONSE             |                  |
   |<---------------------------------------+                  |
   |          DTLS SETUP                    |                  |
   |<======================================>|                  |
   |          RTP/RTCP FLOW                 |                  |
   +<-------------------------------------->+                  |
   | HTTP DELETE                                               |
   +---------------------------------------------------------->+
   | 200 OK                                                    |
   <-----------------------------------------------------------x

Figure 1: WHIP Session Setup and Teardown

The elements in Figure 1 are described as follows:

WHIP client:

This represents the WebRTC media encoder or producer, which functions as a

client of WHIP by encoding and delivering media to a remote media server.

WHIP endpoint:

This denotes the ingest server that receives the initial WHIP request.

WHIP endpoint URL:
WHIP session.

This refers to the URL of the WHIP endpoint responsible for creating the

Media server:

This is the WebRTC media server or consumer responsible for establishing the

media session with the WHIP client and receiving the media content it produces.

WHIP session:

This indicates the server handling the allocated HTTP resource by the WHIP

endpoint for an ongoing ingest session.

WHIP session URL:

This refers to the URL of the WHIP resource allocated by the WHIP

endpoint for a specific media session. To modify the session (e.g., ICE operations or session
termination), the WHIP client can send requests to the WHIP session using this URL.

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

Figure 1 illustrates the communication flow between a WHIP client, WHIP endpoint, media
server, and WHIP session. This flow outlines the process of setting up and tearing down an
ingest session using WHIP, which involves negotiation, ICE for Network Address Translation
(NAT) traversal, DTLS and the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) for security, and RTP/
RTCP for media transport:

•

The WHIP client initiates the communication by sending an HTTP POST with an SDP offer to
the WHIP endpoint.

•

The WHIP endpoint responds with a "201 Created" message containing an SDP answer.

•

The WHIP client and media server establish ICE and DTLS sessions for NAT traversal and
secure communication.

•

RTP and RTCP flows are established for media transmission from the WHIP client to the
media server, secured by the SRTP profile.

•

The WHIP client sends an HTTP DELETE to terminate the WHIP session.

•

The WHIP session responds with a "200 OK" to confirm the session termination.

4.  Protocol Operation

4.1.  HTTP Usage

MUST

[BCP56]

, WHIP clients

Following the guidelines in
WHIP endpoints and resources to a specific error cause indicated in this specification. WHIP
clients
generic n00 semantics of a given status code on unknown error codes. WHIP endpoints and
resources could convey finer-grained error information by a problem details json object in the
response message body of the failed request as per

 be able to handle all applicable status codes by gracefully falling back to the

 match error codes returned by the

[RFC9457]
.

MUST NOT

The WHIP endpoints and sessions are origin servers as defined in
handle the requests and provide responses for the underlying HTTP resources. Those HTTP
resources do not have any representation defined in this specification, so the WHIP endpoints
and sessions
received.

 return a 2xx successful response with no content when a GET request is

Section 3.6 of [RFC9110]

MUST

; they

4.2.  Ingest Session Setup

In order to set up an ingest session, the WHIP client
JSEP rules for an initial offer as per
per

Section 5.2.1 of [RFC9429]
 to the configured WHIP endpoint URL.

Section 9.3.3 of [RFC9110]

MUST

 generate an SDP offer according to the
 and send an HTTP POST request as

MUST

MUST

 have a content type of "application/sdp" and contain the SDP offer
 generate an SDP answer according to the JSEP rules for an
 and return the following: a "201 Created"

The HTTP POST request
as the body. The WHIP endpoint
initial answer as per
response with a content type of "application/sdp", the SDP answer as the body, and a Location
header field pointing to the newly created WHIP session. If the HTTP POST to the WHIP endpoint
has a content type different than "application/sdp" or the SDP is malformed, the WHIP endpoint
MUST

 reject the HTTP POST request with an appropriate 4xx error response.

Section 5.3.1 of [RFC9429]

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

As WHIP only supports the ingestion use case with unidirectional media, the WHIP client
 use the "sendrecv" attribute
SHOULD
instead; the "inactive" and "recvonly" attributes
use the "recvonly" attribute in the SDP answer.

 use the "sendonly" attribute in the SDP offer but
MUST NOT

 be used. The WHIP endpoint

MAY

MUST

Figure 2 is an example of an HTTP POST sent from a WHIP client to a WHIP endpoint and the
"201 Created" response from the WHIP endpoint containing the Location header pointing to the
newly created WHIP session.

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

POST /whip/endpoint HTTP/1.1
Host: whip.example.com
Content-Type: application/sdp
Content-Length: 1101

v=0
o=- 5228595038118931041 2 IN IP4 127.0.0.1
s=-
t=0 0
a=group:BUNDLE 0 1
a=extmap-allow-mixed
a=ice-options:trickle ice2
m=audio 9 UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF 111
c=IN IP4 0.0.0.0
a=rtcp:9 IN IP4 0.0.0.0
a=ice-ufrag:EsAw
a=ice-pwd:bP+XJMM09aR8AiX1jdukzR6Y
a=fingerprint:sha-256 DA:7B:57:DC:28:CE:04:4F:31:79:85:C4:31:67:EB:
   27:58:29:ED:77:2A:0D:24:AE:ED:AD:30:BC:BD:F1:9C:02
a=setup:actpass
a=mid:0
a=extmap:4 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid
a=sendonly
a=msid:d46fb922-d52a-4e9c-aa87-444eadc1521b ce326ecf-a081-453a-8f9f-
   0605d5ef4128
a=rtcp-mux
a=rtcp-mux-only
a=rtpmap:111 opus/48000/2
a=fmtp:111 minptime=10;useinbandfec=1
m=video 0 UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF 96 97
a=mid:1
a=bundle-only
a=extmap:4 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid
a=extmap:10 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:rtp-stream-id
a=extmap:11 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:repaired-rtp-stream-id
a=sendonly
a=msid:d46fb922-d52a-4e9c-aa87-444eadc1521b 3956b460-40f4-4d05-acef-
   03abcdd8c6fd
a=rtpmap:96 VP8/90000
a=rtcp-fb:96 ccm fir
a=rtcp-fb:96 nack
a=rtcp-fb:96 nack pli
a=rtpmap:97 rtx/90000
a=fmtp:97 apt=96

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
ETag: "xyzzy"
Content-Type: application/sdp
Content-Length: 1053
Location: https://whip.example.com/session/id

v=0
o=- 1657793490019 1 IN IP4 127.0.0.1
s=-
t=0 0
a=group:BUNDLE 0 1
a=extmap-allow-mixed

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

a=ice-lite
a=ice-options:trickle ice2
m=audio 9 UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF 111
c=IN IP4 0.0.0.0
a=rtcp:9 IN IP4 0.0.0.0
a=ice-ufrag:38sdf4fdsf54
a=ice-pwd:2e13dde17c1cb009202f627fab90cbec358d766d049c9697
a=fingerprint:sha-256 F7:EB:F3:3E:AC:D2:EA:A7:C1:EC:79:D9:B3:8A:35:
   DA:70:86:4F:46:D9:2D:CC:D0:BC:81:9F:67:EF:34:2E:BD
a=candidate:1 1 UDP 2130706431 198.51.100.1 39132 typ host
a=setup:passive
a=mid:0
a=extmap:4 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid
a=recvonly
a=rtcp-mux
a=rtcp-mux-only
a=rtpmap:111 opus/48000/2
a=fmtp:111 minptime=10;useinbandfec=1
m=video 0 UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF 96 97
c=IN IP4 0.0.0.0
a=mid:1
a=bundle-only
a=extmap:4 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid
a=extmap:10 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:rtp-stream-id
a=extmap:11 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:repaired-rtp-stream-id
a=recvonly
a=rtpmap:96 VP8/90000
a=rtcp-fb:96 ccm fir
a=rtcp-fb:96 nack
a=rtcp-fb:96 nack pli
a=rtpmap:97 rtx/90000
a=fmtp:97 apt=96

Figure 2: Example of the SDP Offer/Answer Exchange Done via an HTTP POST

Once a session is set up, consent freshness as per
graceful disconnection by full ICE implementations and DTLS teardown for session termination
by either side.

 be used to detect non-

[RFC7675] SHALL

To explicitly terminate a WHIP session, the WHIP client
the WHIP session URL returned in the Location header field of the initial HTTP POST. Upon
receiving the HTTP DELETE request, the WHIP session will be removed and the resources freed
on the media server, terminating the ICE and DTLS sessions.

 send an HTTP DELETE request to

MUST

A media server terminating a session
immediate revocation of consent.

MUST

 follow the procedures in

Section 5.2 of [RFC7675]

 for

The WHIP endpoints
MUST
[FETCH]
. The "200 OK" response to any OPTIONS request
as defined in
Accept-Post header with a media type value of "application/sdp" as per

 support OPTIONS requests for Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)

 include an
SHOULD
[W3C.REC-ldp-20150226]
.

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

4.3.  ICE Support

[RFC8445]

 is a protocol that addresses the complexities of NAT traversal commonly

ICE
encountered in Internet communication. NATs hinder direct communication between devices on
different local networks, posing challenges for real-time applications. ICE facilitates seamless
connectivity by employing techniques to discover and negotiate efficient communication paths.

Trickle ICE
communication paths, reducing latency, and facilitating quicker establishment.

 optimizes the connectivity process by incrementally sharing potential

[RFC8838]

ICE restarts are crucial for maintaining connectivity in dynamic network conditions or
disruptions, allowing devices to re-establish communication paths without complete
renegotiation. This ensures minimal latency and reliable real-time communication.

Trickle ICE and ICE restart support are

RECOMMENDED

 for both WHIP sessions and clients.

4.3.1.  HTTP PATCH Request Usage

MAY

 to the WHIP session URL. This HTTP PATCH request

 perform Trickle ICE or ICE restarts by sending an HTTP PATCH request as
 contain a body with an
[RFC8840]
, which

The WHIP client
[RFC5789]
per
SDP fragment with media type "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag" as specified in
carries the relevant ICE information. If the HTTP PATCH request sent to the WHIP session URL
has a content type different than "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag" or the SDP fragment is
malformed, the WHIP session
response.

 reject the HTTP PATCH with an appropriate 4xx error

MUST

MUST

If the WHIP session supports either Trickle ICE or ICE restarts, but not both, it
"422 Unprocessable Content" error response for the HTTP PATCH requests that are not supported
as per

Section 15.5.21 of [RFC9110]
.

 return a

MUST

MAY

 send overlapping HTTP PATCH requests to one WHIP session.

The WHIP client
Consequently, those HTTP PATCH requests may be received out of order by the WHIP session.
Thus, if the WHIP session supports ICE restarts, it
identifying the ICE session as per
identifying the initial ICE session
response to the initial POST request to the WHIP endpoint.

Section 8.8.3 of [RFC9110]
MUST

 be returned in an ETag header field in the "201 Created"

 generate a unique strong entity-tag

. The initial value of the entity-tag

MUST

SHOULD NOT

WHIP clients
 use entity-tag validation when matching a specific ICE session is not
required, for example, when initiating a DELETE request to terminate a session. WHIP sessions
 ignore any entity-tag value sent by the WHIP client when ICE session matching is not
MUST
required, as in the HTTP DELETE request.

Missing or outdated ETags in the PATCH requests from WHIP clients will be answered by WHIP
sessions as per
, with a "428 Precondition
Required" response for a missing entity-tag and a "412 Precondition Failed" response for a non-
matching entity-tag.

Section 13.1.1 of [RFC9110]

Section 3 of [RFC6585]

 and

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

4.3.2.  Trickle ICE

Depending on the Trickle ICE support on the WHIP client, the initial offer by the WHIP client
be sent after the full ICE gathering is complete with the full list of ICE candidates, or it
contain local candidates (or even an empty list of candidates) as per
of reducing setup times, when using Trickle ICE, the WHIP client
 send the SDP offer
(containing either locally gathered ICE candidates or an empty list of candidates) as soon as
possible.

 only
. For the purpose

[RFC8445]

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

In order to simplify the protocol, the WHIP session cannot signal additional ICE candidates to the
WHIP client after the SDP answer has been sent. The WHIP endpoint
 gather all the ICE
candidates for the media server before responding to the client request, and the SDP answer
SHALL

 contain the full list of ICE candidates of the media server.

SHALL

MUST

As the WHIP client needs to know the WHIP session URL associated with the ICE session in order
to send a PATCH request containing new ICE candidates, it
candidates until the "201 Created" HTTP response to the initial POST request is received. In order
to reduce the HTTP traffic and processing time required, the WHIP client
aggregated HTTP PATCH request with all the buffered ICE candidates once the response is
received. Additionally, if ICE restarts are supported by the WHIP session, the WHIP client needs
to know the entity-tag associated with the ICE session in order to send a PATCH request
containing new ICE candidates; thus, it
MUST
it receives the HTTP response with the new entity-tag value to the last PATCH request
performing an ICE restart.

 also wait and buffer any gathered candidates until

 wait and buffer any gathered

 send a single

SHOULD

WHIP clients generating the HTTP PATCH body with the SDP fragment and its subsequent
processing by WHIP sessions
the following considerations:

 follow the guidelines defined in

Section 4.4 of [RFC8840]

MUST

 with

•

[RFC9429]

As per
, only "m=" sections not marked as bundle-only can gather ICE candidates,
so given that the "max-bundle" policy is being used, the SDP fragment will contain only the
offerer-tagged "m=" line of the bundle group.

•

MAY

The WHIP client
already been confirmed by the WHIP session with a successful HTTP response to a previous
HTTP PATCH request.

 exclude ICE candidates from the HTTP PATCH body if they have

WHIP sessions and clients that support Trickle ICE
requests as explained in Section 4.3.1.

MUST

 make use of entity-tags and conditional

When a WHIP session receives a PATCH request that adds new ICE candidates without
performing an ICE restart, it
NOT
transport or is not able to resolve the connection address, it
and continue processing the rest of the request normally.

 include an ETag header in the response. If the WHIP session does not support a candidate

 return a "204 No Content" response without a body and

 silently discard the candidate

MUST

MUST

MUST

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

Figure 3 shows an example of the Trickle ICE procedure where the WHIP client sends a PATCH
request with updated ICE candidate information and receives a successful response from the
WHIP session.

PATCH /session/id HTTP/1.1
Host: whip.example.com
If-Match: "xyzzy"
Content-Type: application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag
Content-Length: 576

a=group:BUNDLE 0 1
m=audio 9 UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF 111
a=mid:0
a=ice-ufrag:EsAw
a=ice-pwd:P2uYro0UCOQ4zxjKXaWCBui1
a=candidate:1387637174 1 udp 2122260223 192.0.2.1 61764 typ host
   generation 0 ufrag EsAw network-id 1
a=candidate:3471623853 1 udp 2122194687 198.51.100.2 61765 typ host
   generation 0 ufrag EsAw network-id 2
a=candidate:473322822 1 tcp 1518280447 192.0.2.1 9 typ host tcptype
   active generation 0 ufrag EsAw network-id 1
a=candidate:2154773085 1 tcp 1518214911 198.51.100.2 9 typ host
   tcptype active generation 0 ufrag EsAw network-id 2
a=end-of-candidates

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content

Figure 3: Example of a Trickle ICE Request and Response

4.3.3.  ICE Restarts

[RFC8839]

, when an ICE restart occurs, a new SDP offer/answer exchange is

As defined in
triggered. However, as WHIP does not support renegotiation of non-ICE-related SDP
information, a WHIP client will not send a new offer when an ICE restart occurs. Instead, the
WHIP client and WHIP session will only exchange the relevant ICE information via an HTTP
PATCH request as defined in Section 4.3.1 and
ICE-related SDP information still applies after the ICE restart.

 assume that the previously negotiated non-

MUST

MUST

When performing an ICE restart, the WHIP client
ufrag" in the SDP fragment of the HTTP PATCH request body as well as the new set of gathered
ICE candidates as defined in
[RFC9429]
that the "max-bundle" policy is being used, the SDP fragment will contain only the offerer-tagged
"m=" line of the bundle group. A WHIP client sending a PATCH request for performing ICE restart
Section 13.1.1 of [RFC9110]
.
MUST

, only "m=" sections not marked as bundle-only can gather ICE candidates, so given

 contain an If-Match header field with a field-value of "*" as per

. Similar to what is defined in Section 4.3.2, as per

 include the updated "ice-pwd" and "ice-

[RFC8840]

MUST

 states that an agent

[RFC8840]
ufrag" attributes that do not match those of the current ICE Negotiation Session. However, any
WHIP session receiving updated "ice-pwd" and "ice-ufrag" attributes
as performing an ICE restart instead and, if supported,
"application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag" body containing the new ICE username fragment and password

 discard any received requests containing "ice-pwd" and "ice-

 return a "200 OK" with an

 consider the request

SHALL

MUST

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

and a new set of ICE candidates for the WHIP session. Also, the "200 OK" response for a
successful ICE restart
an ETag response header field and

 contain the new entity-tag corresponding to the new ICE session in

 contain a new set of ICE candidates for the media server.

MUST

MAY

Section 4.4.1.1.1 of [RFC8839]

, the set of candidates after an ICE restart may include
As defined in
some, none, or all of the previous candidates for that data stream and may include a totally new
set of candidates. Therefore, after performing a successful ICE restart, both the WHIP client and
the WHIP session
exchanged in the HTTP PATCH request and response, discarding any remote ICE candidate not
present on the new set. Both the WHIP client and the WHIP session
 ensure that the HTTP
PATCH request and response bodies include the same "ice-options," "ice-pacing," and "ice-lite"
attributes as those used in the SDP offer or answer.

 replace the previous set of remote candidates with the new set

MUST

MUST

If the ICE restart request cannot be satisfied by the WHIP session, the resource
appropriate HTTP error code and
MUST NOT
existing ICE session. The WHIP client
session by issuing an HTTP DELETE request instead. In any case, the session
if the ICE consent expires as a consequence of the failed ICE restart as per
[RFC7675]
.

MAY

 terminate the session immediately and keep the
 retry performing a new ICE restart or terminate the

Section 5.1 of

 return an

MUST

MUST

 be terminated

MUST

 discard any previous ICE username fragment and password and ignore any

In case of unstable network conditions, the ICE restart HTTP PATCH requests and responses
might be received out of order. In order to mitigate this scenario, when the client performs an
ICE restart, it
further HTTP PATCH response received from a pending HTTP PATCH request. WHIP clients
apply only the ICE information received in the response to the last sent request. If there is a
mismatch between the ICE information at the WHIP client and at the WHIP session (because of
an out-of-order request), the Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) requests will contain
invalid ICE information and will be dropped by the receiving side. If this situation is detected by
the WHIP client, it

 send a new ICE restart request to the server.

MUST

MUST

Figure 4 demonstrates a Trickle ICE restart procedure example. The WHIP client sends a PATCH
request containing updated ICE information, including a new username fragment and
password, along with newly gathered ICE candidates. In response, the WHIP session provides
ICE information for the session after the ICE restart, including the updated username fragment
and password, as well as the previous ICE candidate.

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

PATCH /session/id HTTP/1.1
Host: whip.example.com
If-Match: "*"
Content-Type: application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag
Content-Length: 82

a=ice-options:trickle ice2
a=group:BUNDLE 0 1
m=audio 9 UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF 111
a=mid:0
a=ice-ufrag:ysXw
a=ice-pwd:vw5LmwG4y/e6dPP/zAP9Gp5k
a=candidate:1387637174 1 udp 2122260223 192.0.2.1 61764 typ host
   generation 0 ufrag EsAw network-id 1
a=candidate:3471623853 1 udp 2122194687 198.51.100.2 61765 typ host
   generation 0 ufrag EsAw network-id 2
a=candidate:473322822 1 tcp 1518280447 192.0.2.1 9 typ host tcptype
   active generation 0 ufrag EsAw network-id 1
a=candidate:2154773085 1 tcp 1518214911 198.51.100.2 9 typ host
   tcptype active generation 0 ufrag EsAw network-id 2

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
ETag: "abccd"
Content-Type: application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag
Content-Length: 252

a=ice-lite
a=ice-options:trickle ice2
a=group:BUNDLE 0 1
m=audio 9 UDP/TLS/RTP/SAVPF 111
a=mid:0
a=ice-ufrag:289b31b754eaa438
a=ice-pwd:0b66f472495ef0ccac7bda653ab6be49ea13114472a5d10a
a=candidate:1 1 udp 2130706431 198.51.100.1 39132 typ host
a=end-of-candidates

Figure 4: Example of an ICE Restart Request and Response

4.4.  WebRTC Constraints

To simplify the implementation of WHIP in both clients and media servers, WHIP introduces
specific restrictions on WebRTC usage. The following subsections will explain these restrictions
in detail.

4.4.1.  SDP Bundle

SHALL

[RFC9429]

Both the WHIP client and the WHIP endpoint
bundle" policy as defined in
multiplexed media associated with the BUNDLE group as per
per
bundled media. In order to reduce the network resources required at the media server, both the
WHIP client and WHIP endpoints
"m=" section as per

 and use the "max-
MUST
Section 9 of [RFC9143]
 use RTP/RTCP multiplexing for all

 include the "rtcp-mux-only" attribute in each bundled

. The WHIP client and the media server

, the WHIP client and media server

 support
. In addition,

Section 3 of [RFC8858]
.

[RFC9143]

[RFC9143]

 support

SHALL

MUST

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

4.4.2.  Single MediaStream

MUST NOT

[RFC8830]

; therefore, all "m=" sections

 contain a "msid" attribute with the same value. The MediaStream

WHIP only supports a single MediaStream as defined in
MUST
one MediaStreamTrack of any media kind, and it
MediaStreamTracks for the same media (audio or video). However, it would be possible for
future revisions of this specification to allow more than a single MediaStream or
MediaStreamTrack of each media kind. Therefore, in order to ensure forward compatibility, if
the number of audio and/or video MediaStreamTracks or the number of MediaStreams are not
supported by the WHIP endpoint, it
Unprocessable Content" or "400 Bad Request" error response. The WHIP endpoint
 also
return a problem statement that provides further error details about the failed request, as
recommended in Section 4.1.

MUST
 have two or more

 reject the HTTP POST request with a "422

 contain at least

MUST

MAY

4.4.3.  No Partially Successful Answers

SHOULD NOT

 reject individual "m=" sections, as specified in

, if an error occurs when processing the "m=" section; instead, it

The WHIP endpoint
[RFC9429]
HTTP POST request with a "422 Unprocessable Content" or "400 Bad Request" error response to
prevent having partially successful ingest sessions, which can be misleading to end users. The
WHIP endpoint
 also return a problem statement as recommended in Section 4.1 proving
further error details about the failed request.

Section 5.3.1 of
 reject the

SHOULD

MAY

4.4.4.  DTLS Setup Role and SDP "setup" Attribute

SHOULD

When a WHIP client sends an SDP offer, it
"actpass" attribute value, as defined in
the DTLS client role, it
WHIP endpoint does not support an SDP offer with an SDP "setup" attribute with an "active"
attribute value, it
 reject the request with a "422 Unprocessable Content" or "400 Bad
Request" error response.

 use an SDP "setup" attribute with an "active" attribute value. If the

 insert an SDP "setup" attribute with an

. However, if the WHIP client only implements

[RFC8842]

SHOULD

MAY

[RFC8842]

NOTE:
 defines that the offerer must insert an SDP "setup" attribute with an "actpass"
attribute value. However, the WHIP client will always communicate with a media server that is
expected to support the DTLS server role, in which case the client might choose to only
implement support for the DTLS client role.

4.4.5.  Trickle ICE and ICE Restarts

 support full ICE, unless it is connected to the Internet with an IP
The media server
address that is accessible by each WHIP client that is authorized to use it, in which case it
support only ICE lite. The WHIP client

 implement and use full ICE.

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

Trickle ICE and ICE restart support is
explained in Section 4.3.

OPTIONAL

 for both the WHIP clients and media servers as

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

4.5.  Load Balancing and Redirections

WHIP endpoints and media servers might not be colocated on the same server, so it is possible
to load balance incoming requests to different media servers.

SHALL

 support HTTP redirections as per

WHIP clients
avoid POST requests being redirected as GET requests, status codes "301 Moved Permanently"
and "302 Found"
the "307 Temporary Redirect" response status code as described in
Redirections are not required to be supported for the PATCH and DELETE requests.

 be used; the preferred method for performing load balancing is via
Section 15.4.8 of [RFC9110]
.

Section 15.4 of [RFC9110]

. In order to

MUST NOT

MAY

In case of high load, the WHIP endpoints
indicating that the server is currently unable to handle the request due to a temporary overload
or scheduled maintenance as described in
alleviated after some delay. The WHIP endpoint might send a Retry-After header field indicating
the minimum time that the user agent ought to wait before making a follow-up request as
described in

 return a "503 Service Unavailable" response

Section 10.2.3 of [RFC9110]
.

Section 15.6.4 of [RFC9110]

, which will likely be

4.6.  STUN/TURN Server Configuration

The WHIP endpoint
by the client in the "201 Created" response to the HTTP POST request to the WHIP endpoint URL.

 return STUN/TURN server configuration URLs and credentials usable

MAY

[RFC8288]
A reference to each STUN/TURN server will be returned using the Link header field
with a "rel" attribute value of "ice-server". The Link target URI is the server URI as defined in
[RFC7064]
. The credentials are encoded in the Link target attributes as follows:

[RFC7065]

 and

•

username: If the Link header field represents a Traversal Using Relays around NAT (TURN)
server, then this attribute specifies the username to use with that TURN server.

•

credential: This attribute represents a long-term authentication password, as described in
Section 9.2 of [RFC8489]

.

Figure 5 illustrates the Link headers included in a "201 Created" response, providing the ICE
server URLs and associated credentials.

Link: <stun:stun.example.net>; rel="ice-server"
Link: <turn:turn.example.net?transport=udp>; rel="ice-server";
      username="user"; credential="myPassword"
Link: <turn:turn.example.net?transport=tcp>; rel="ice-server";
      username="user"; credential="myPassword"
Link: <turns:turn.example.net?transport=tcp>; rel="ice-server";
      username="user"; credential="myPassword"

Figure 5: Example of a STUN/TURN Server's Configuration

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

NOTE: The naming of both the "rel" attribute value of "ice-server" and the target attributes
follows that used in the RTCConfiguration dictionary in Section 4.2.1 of the W3C WebRTC
recommendation (see
not prepended with the "urn:ietf:params:whip:" so it can be reused by other specifications,
which may use this mechanism to configure the usage of STUN/TURN servers.

[W3C.REC-webrtc-20250313]

). The "rel" attribute value of "ice-server" is

NOTE: Depending on the ICE agent implementation, the WHIP client may need to call the
setConfiguration method before calling the setLocalDescription method with the local SDP offer
in order to avoid having to perform an ICE restart for applying the updated STUN/TURN server
configuration on the next ICE gathering phase.

There are some WebRTC implementations that do not support updating the STUN/TURN server
configuration after the local offer has been created as specified in
order to support these clients, the WHIP endpoint
configuration in the responses to OPTIONS requests sent to the WHIP endpoint URL before the
 to be used by the WHIP
POST request is sent. However, this method is
clients, and if it is supported by the underlying WHIP client's WebRTC implementation, the
WHIP client
 wait for the information to be returned by the WHIP endpoint in the
response of the HTTP POST request instead.

 also include the STUN/TURN server

Section 4.1.18 of [RFC9429]

NOT RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

MAY

. In

SHOULD
 return the STUN/TURN server configuration if the OPTIONS request is a preflight request for

The generation of the TURN server credentials may require sending a request to an external
provider, which can both add latency to the OPTIONS request processing and increase the
processing required to handle that request. In order to prevent this, the WHIP endpoint
NOT
CORS as defined in
, that is, if the OPTIONS request does not contain an Access-Control-
Request-Method with a POST value and the Access-Control-Request-Headers HTTP header does
not contain the Link value.

[FETCH]

The WHIP clients
credentials provided by either the broadcasting service or an external TURN provider,
overriding the values provided by the WHIP endpoint.

 also support configuring the STUN/TURN server URIs with long-term

MAY

4.6.1.  Congestion Control

[RFC8836]
 defines the congestion control requirements for interactive real-time media to be
used in WebRTC. These requirements are based on the assumption that the data needs to be
provided continuously within a very limited time window (a delay of no more than hundreds of
milliseconds end-to-end). If the latency target is higher, some of the requirements present in
[RFC8836]

 could be relaxed to allow more flexible implementations.

4.7.  Authentication and Authorization

All WHIP endpoints, sessions, and clients
[RFC9110]
defined in the next section
preclude the support of additional HTTP authentication schemes as defined in
[RFC9110]
.

. Additionally, in order to ensure interoperability, bearer token authentication as
 be supported by all WHIP entities. However, this does not

 support HTTP authentication as per

MUST

MUST

Section 11.6 of

Section 11 of

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

4.7.1.  Bearer Token Authentication

MAY

WHIP endpoints and sessions
Authorization header field with a bearer token as specified in
clients
Authorization header field in all HTTP requests sent to either the WHIP endpoint or session
(except the preflight OPTIONS requests for CORS).

. WHIP
 implement this authentication and authorization mechanism and send the HTTP

 require the HTTP request to be authenticated using an HTTP

Section 2.1 of [RFC6750]

MUST

The nature, syntax, and semantics of the bearer token, as well as how to distribute it to the
client, are outside the scope of this document. Examples of tokens that could be used include, but
are not limited to, JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) as per
database. The tokens are typically made available to the end user alongside the WHIP endpoint
URL and configured on the WHIP clients (similar to the way Real Time Messaging Protocol
(RTMP) URLs and Stream Keys are distributed).

 and a shared secret stored on a

[RFC8725]

WHIP endpoints and sessions could perform the authentication and authorization by encoding
an authentication token within the URLs for the WHIP endpoints or sessions instead. In case the
WHIP client is not configured to use a bearer token, the HTTP Authorization header field
NOT

 be sent in any request.

MUST

4.8.  Simulcast and Scalable Video Coding

Simulcast as per
through negotiation in the SDP offer/answer.

[RFC8853] MAY

 be supported by both the media servers and WHIP clients

If the client supports simulcast and wants to enable it for ingesting, it
support in the SDP offer according to the procedures in
accepting a simulcast offer
of [RFC8853]
.

MUST

Section 5.3 of [RFC8853]

MUST

 negotiate the
. A server

 create an answer according to the procedures in

Section 5.3.2

It is possible for both media servers and WHIP clients to support Scalable Video Coding (SVC).
However, as there is no universal negotiation mechanism in SDP for SVC, the encoder must
consider the negotiated codec(s), intended usage, and SVC support in available decoders when
configuring SVC.

4.9.  Protocol Extensions

In order to support future extensions to be defined for WHIP, a common procedure for
registering and announcing the new extensions is defined.

Protocol extensions supported by the WHIP sessions
the "201 Created" response to the initial HTTP POST request sent to the WHIP endpoint. The
WHIP endpoint
extension "rel" attribute value containing the extension URN and the URL for the HTTP resource
that will be available for receiving requests related to that extension.

 return one Link header field for each extension that it supports, with the

 be advertised to the WHIP client in

MUST

MUST

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

Protocol extensions are optional for both WHIP clients and servers. WHIP clients
any Link target attribute with an unknown "rel" attribute value, and WHIP sessions
require the usage of any extension.

MUST

 ignore
MUST NOT

Each protocol extension
"urn:ietf:params:whip:ext" in the "WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) Extension URNs"
registry (Section 6.4).

 register a unique "rel" attribute value that starts with the prefix

MUST

For example, consider a potential extension of server-to-client communication using server-sent
events as specified in Section 9.2 of
resource for the ingested stream could be returned in the initial HTTP "201 Created" response
with a Link header field and a "rel" attribute of "urn:ietf:params:whip:ext:example:server-sent-
events" (this document does not specify such an extension and uses it only as an example).

. The URL for connecting to the server-sent event

[HTML]

In this theoretical case, the "201 Created" response to the HTTP POST request would look like:

Figure 6 shows the "201 Created" response to the HTTP POST request in this theoretical case (i.e.,
the WHIP extension supported by the WHIP session, as indicated in the Link header of the "201
Created" response).

HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Content-Type: application/sdp
Location: https://whip.example.com/session/id
Link: <https://whip.example.com/session/id/sse>;
      rel="urn:ietf:params:whip:ext:example:server-sent-events"

Figure 6: Example of a WHIP Extension

5.  Security Considerations

This document specifies a new protocol on top of HTTP and WebRTC; thus, security protocols
and considerations from related specifications apply to the WHIP specification. These include:

•

WebRTC security considerations: See
the WebRTC security model.

[RFC8826]

. HTTPS

SHALL

 be used in order to preserve

•

Transport Layer Security (TLS): See

[RFC8446]

 and

[RFC9147]

.

•

HTTP security: See

Section 11 of [RFC9112]

 and

Section 17 of [RFC9110]

.

•

URI security: See

Section 7 of [RFC3986]

.

On top of that, WHIP exposes a thin new attack surface specific to the REST API methods used
within it:

•

HTTP POST flooding and resource exhaustion: It would be possible for an attacker in
possession of authentication credentials valid for ingesting a WHIP stream to make multiple
HTTP POST requests to the WHIP endpoint. This will force the WHIP endpoint to process the
incoming SDP and allocate resources for being able to set up the DTLS/ICE connection. While
the malicious client does not need to initiate the DTLS/ICE connection at all, the WHIP

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

session will have to wait for the DTLS/ICE connection timeout in order to release the
associated resources. If the connection rate is high enough, this could lead to resource
exhaustion on the servers handling the requests, and they will not be able to process
legitimate incoming ingests. In order to prevent this scenario, WHIP endpoints
implement a rate limit and avalanche control mechanism for incoming initial HTTP POST
requests.

SHOULD

•

Insecure Direct Object References (IDORs) for WHIP session URLs: If the URLs returned by
the WHIP endpoint for the location of WHIP sessions are easy to guess, it would be possible
for an attacker to send multiple HTTP DELETE requests and terminate all the WHIP sessions
currently running. In order to prevent this scenario, WHIP endpoints
URLs with enough randomness, using a cryptographically secure pseudorandom number
generator following the best practices in "Randomness Requirements for Security"
[RFC4086]
requests. The security considerations for Universally Unique IDentifiers (UUIDs) in
of [RFC9562]

, and implement a rate limit and avalanche control mechanism for HTTP DELETE
Section 8

 are applicable for generating the WHIP session URLs.

 generate

SHOULD

•

HTTP PATCH flooding: Similar to the HTTP POST flooding, a malicious client could also
create resource exhaustion by sending multiple HTTP PATCH requests to the WHIP session,
although the WHIP sessions can limit the impact by not allocating new ICE candidates and
reusing the existing ICE candidates when doing ICE restarts. In order to prevent this
scenario, WHIP endpoints
mechanism for incoming HTTP PATCH requests.

 implement a rate limit and avalanche control

SHOULD

6.  IANA Considerations

Per this specification, IANA has added a new link relation type and a new URN sub-namespace
for WHIP. IANA has also created registries to manage entries within the "urn:ietf:params:whip"
and "urn:ietf:params:whip:ext" namespaces.

6.1.  Link Relation Type: ice-server

The link relation type below has been registered by IANA in the "Link Relation Types" registry
per

Section 4.2 of [RFC8288]
:

Relation Name:

ice-server

Description:

Conveys the STUN and TURN servers that can be used by an ICE agent to establish

a connection with a peer.

Reference:

RFC 9725

6.2.  URN Sub-namespace for WHIP (urn:ietf:params:whip)

IANA has added a new entry in the "IETF URN Sub-namespace for Registered Protocol Parameter
Identifiers" registry, following the template in

[RFC3553]
:

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

Registry name:

whip

Specification:

RFC 9725

Repository:

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/whip>

Index value:

An IANA-assigned positive integer that identifies the registration. The first entry

added to this registry uses the value 1, and this value is incremented for each subsequent
entry added to the registry.

To manage this sub-namespace, IANA has created two registries within a new registry group
called "WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP)":

•

"WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) URNs" registry (Section 6.3)

•

"WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) Extension URNs" registry (Section 6.4)

6.3.  WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) URNs Registry

The "WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) URNs" registry is used to manage entries within
the "urn:ietf:params:whip" namespace. The registration procedure is "Specification Required"
[RFC8126]
Reference, and Change Controller. This document is listed as the reference.

. The registry contains the following fields: URN, Name, Reference, IANA Registry

The registry contains a single initial entry:

URN:

urn:ietf:params:whip:ext

Name:

WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) extension URNs

Reference:

Section 6.4 of RFC 9725

IANA Registry Reference:

See "WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) Extension URNs" on

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/whip>

Change Controller:

IETF

6.4.  WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) Extension URNs Registry

The "WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) Extension URNs" registry is used to manage
entries within the "urn:ietf:params:whip:ext" namespace. The registration procedure is
"Specification Required"
. The registry contains the following fields: URN, Name,
Reference, IANA Registry Reference, and Change Controller. This document is listed as the
reference.

[RFC8126]

A WHIP extension URN is used as a value in the "rel" attribute of the Link header as defined in
Section 4.9 for the purpose of signaling the WHIP extensions supported by the WHIP endpoint.
WHIP extension URNs have an "ext" type.

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

6.5.  Registering WHIP URNs and WHIP Extension URNs

This section defines the process for registering new URNs in the "WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion
Protocol (WHIP) URNs" registry (Section 6.3) and the "WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP)
Extension URNs" registry (Section 6.4).

6.5.1.  Registration Procedure

The IETF has created a mailing list, <wish@ietf.org>, which can be used for public discussion of
proposals prior to registration. Use of the mailing list is strongly encouraged. A designated
expert (DE)
review registrations.

, appointed by the IESG, will monitor the <wish@ietf.org> mailing list and

[RFC8126]

Registration of new entries in the WHIP registries defined in this document
documented in a permanent and readily available public specification, in sufficient detail so that
interoperability between independent implementations is possible, and reviewed by the DE as
per
value data types that modify existing properties. A Standards Track RFC is also
registration of WHIP extension URNs that modify WHIP extensions previously documented in an
existing RFC.

 for the registration of new

. A Standards Track RFC is

Section 4.6 of [RFC8126]

REQUIRED

REQUIRED

MUST

 for

 be

The registration procedure begins when a completed registration template, defined in Section
6.5.3, is sent to <iana@iana.org>. Decisions made by the DE can be appealed to an Applications
and Real-Time (ART) Area Director, then to the IESG. The normal appeals procedure described in
RFC 2026

 is to be followed.

[BCP9]

Once the registration procedure concludes successfully, IANA will create or modify the
corresponding record in the "WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) URNs Registry" or
"WebRTC-HTTP Ingestion Protocol (WHIP) Extension URNs" registry.

An RFC specifying one or more new WHIP extension URNs
registration template(s), which
template(s) are intended to go in the body of the document, not in the IANA Considerations
section. The RFC
may be provided in a Link header field advertising the extension.

 include the syntax and semantics of any extension-specific attributes that

 be expanded with additional information. These completed

 include the completed

MUST

MUST

MAY

6.5.2.  Guidance for the Designated Expert

The DE is expected to do the following:

•

Ascertain the existence of suitable documentation (a specification) as described in
and verify that the document is permanently and publicly available. Specifications should
be documented in an Internet-Draft.

[RFC8126]

•

Check the clarity of purpose and use of the requested registration.

•

Verify that any request for one of these registrations has been made available for review
and comments by posting the request to the <wish@ietf.org> mailing list.

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

•

Ensure that any other request for a code point does not conflict with work that is active or
already published by the IETF.

6.5.3.  Registration Template

A WHIP extension URN is defined by completing the following template:

URN:

A unique URN (e.g., "urn:ietf:params:whip:ext:example:server-sent-events")

Name:

A descriptive name (e.g., "Sender Side events")

Reference:

A formal reference to the publicly available specification

IANA Registry Reference:

The registry related to the new URN

Change Controller:

For Standards Track documents, this is "IETF". Otherwise, this is the name

of the person or body that has change control over the specification.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[FETCH]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3264]

[RFC3553]

[RFC3986]

[RFC4086]

[RFC5789]

,

WHATWG "Fetch" WHATWG Living Standard <https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org>
Commit snapshot: <https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/commit-snapshots/
edfa8d100cf1ecfde385f65c172e0e8d018fcd98/>
.

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Rosenberg, J.
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

H. Schulzrinne "An Offer/Answer Model with Session

, June 2002,

,

,

,

.

,

Mealling, M. Masinter, L. Hardie, T.
namespace for Registered Protocol Parameters" BCP 73 RFC 3553 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3553>
RFC3553

G. Klyne "An IETF URN Sub-
,

, June 2003,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
(URI): Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>
.

, and
,

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier

,

,

, January 2005,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Schiller, J.
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for

, June 2005,

<https://

Dusseault, L.
RFC5789

 and
, March 2010,

J. Snell "PATCH Method for HTTP" RFC 5789 DOI 10.17487/

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5789>

,

,

.

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

[RFC6585]

[RFC6750]

[RFC7064]

[RFC7065]

[RFC7675]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8288]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8489]

[RFC8725]

[RFC8826]

[RFC8830]

Nottingham, M.
10.17487/RFC6585

R. Fielding "Additional HTTP Status Codes" RFC 6585 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6585>

, April 2012,

,

,

.

 and

 and

Jones, M.
Usage" RFC 6750 DOI 10.17487/RFC6750
editor.org/info/rfc6750>

,

,

,

.

D. Hardt "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token

, October 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Nandakumar, S. Salgueiro, G. Jones, P.
M. Petit-Huguenin "URI Scheme for
,
the Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) Protocol" RFC 7064 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7064

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7064>

, November 2013,

, and

,

,

,

.

Petit-Huguenin, M. Nandakumar, S. Salgueiro, G.
Using Relays around NAT (TURN) Uniform Resource Identifiers" RFC 7065 DOI
10.17487/RFC7065
.

P. Jones "Traversal
,
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7065>

, November 2013,

, and

,

,

,

,

Perumal, M. Wing, D. Ravindranath, R. Reddy, T.
,
Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) Usage for Consent Freshness" RFC 7675 DOI
10.17487/RFC7675

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7675>
.

M. Thomson "Session

, October 2015,

, and

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

Nottingham, M. "Web Linking" RFC 8288 DOI 10.17487/RFC8288
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>

,
.

,

, October 2017,

, and

Keranen, A. Holmberg, C.
J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
,
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

Petit-Huguenin, M. Salgueiro, G. Rosenberg, J. Wing, D. Mahy, R.
, and
,
Matthews "Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN)" RFC 8489 DOI 10.17487/
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8489>
RFC8489

, February 2020,

P.

,

,

,

,

,

.

Sheffer, Y. Hardt, D.
,
BCP 225 RFC 8725 DOI 10.17487/RFC8725
,
editor.org/info/rfc8725>

, and

,

.

,

M. Jones "JSON Web Token Best Current Practices"
<https://www.rfc-
, February 2020,

,

Rescorla, E. "Security Considerations for WebRTC" RFC 8826 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8826

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8826>

, January 2021,

,

,

,

.

,

Alvestrand, H. "WebRTC MediaStream Identification in the Session Description
Protocol" RFC 8830 DOI 10.17487/RFC8830
editor.org/info/rfc8830>

<https://www.rfc-

, January 2021,

,

,

.

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

[RFC8838]

[RFC8839]

[RFC8840]

[RFC8842]

[RFC8853]

[RFC8858]

[RFC9110]

[RFC9112]

[RFC9143]

[RFC9147]

[RFC9429]

, and

P. Saint-Andre "Trickle ICE: Incremental Provisioning of
Ivov, E. Uberti, J.
,
Candidates for the Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) Protocol" RFC
8838 DOI 10.17487/RFC8838
,
rfc8838>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2021,

,

,

.

,

Petit-Huguenin, M. Nandakumar, S. Holmberg, C. Keränen, A.
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Offer/Answer Procedures for Interactive
Connectivity Establishment (ICE)" RFC 8839 DOI 10.17487/RFC8839
, January
,
2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8839>

, and

.

,

,

,

R. Shpount

,

,

,

Ivov, E. Stach, T. Marocco, E.
(SIP) Usage for Incremental Provisioning of Candidates for the Interactive
Connectivity Establishment (Trickle ICE)" RFC 8840 DOI 10.17487/RFC8840
January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8840>

C. Holmberg "A Session Initiation Protocol

, and

,

,

,

,

.

 and

R. Shpount "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Offer/Answer

Holmberg, C.
Considerations for Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) and Transport
Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 8842 DOI 10.17487/RFC8842
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8842>

, January 2021,

<https://

,

,

.

,

Burman, B. Westerlund, M. Nandakumar, S.
in Session Description Protocol (SDP) and RTP Sessions" RFC 8853 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8853

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8853>

M. Zanaty "Using Simulcast

, January 2021,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Holmberg, C. "Indicating Exclusive Support of RTP and RTP Control Protocol
(RTCP) Multiplexing Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8858
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8858

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8858>

, January 2021,

,

.

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
9112 DOI 10.17487/RFC9112
,
rfc9112>

.

, June 2022,

, and

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP/1.1" STD 99 RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Holmberg, C. Alvestrand, H.
,
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 9143 DOI 10.17487/RFC9143
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9143>
February 2022,

, and

,
,

.

,

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

,

E. Rescorla, Ed. "JavaScript Session Establishment
Uberti, J. Jennings, C.
, and
Protocol (JSEP)" RFC 9429 DOI 10.17487/RFC9429
,
editor.org/info/rfc9429>
.

, April 2024,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

[RFC9562]

Davis, K. Peabody, B.
,
RFC 9562 DOI 10.17487/RFC9562
,
rfc9562>
.

, and

,

P. Leach "Universally Unique IDentifiers (UUIDs)"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2024,

[W3C.REC-ldp-20150226]

Arwe, J., Ed. Speicher, S., Ed.

,

, and

A. Malhotra, Ed. "Linked Data

,

,

Platform 1.0" W3C Recommendation
<https://www.w3.org/
TR/2015/REC-ldp-20150226/> Latest version available at: <https://www.w3.org/
TR/ldp/>
.

, 26 February 2015,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[BCP56]

Best Current Practice 56,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp56>
.

Nottingham, M. "Building Protocols with HTTP" BCP 56 RFC 9205 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9205>
10.17487/RFC9205

, June 2022,

,

,

,

,

.

[BCP9]

Best Current Practice 9,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp9>
.

Bradner, S. "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3" BCP 9 RFC 2026 DOI
10.17487/RFC2026

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2026>

, October 1996,

,
.

,

,

,

 and

Dusseault, L.
Reports for Advancement to Draft Standard" BCP 9 RFC 5657 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5657

R. Sparks "Guidance on Interoperation and Implementation

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5657>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

Housley, R. Crocker, D.
,
Maturity Levels" BCP 9 RFC 6410 DOI 10.17487/RFC6410
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6410>

, and
,

,
.

,

E. Burger "Reducing the Standards Track to Two

, October 2011,

<https://

Resnick, P. "Retirement of the "Internet Official Protocol Standards" Summary
Document" BCP 9 RFC 7100 DOI 10.17487/RFC7100
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7100>

, December 2013,

,
,

,

,

.

Kolkman, O. Bradner, S.
,
Standards" BCP 9 RFC 7127 DOI 10.17487/RFC7127
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7127>

, and
,

,

,

.

S. Turner "Characterization of Proposed

, January 2014,

<https://

,

Dawkins, S. "Increasing the Number of Area Directors in an IETF Area" BCP 9
,
RFC 7475 DOI 10.17487/RFC7475
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 2015,
rfc7475>

,
.

,

Halpern, J., Ed.
Rough Consensus" BCP 9 RFC 8789 DOI 10.17487/RFC8789
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8789>

 and
,

,
,

,

.

E. Rescorla, Ed. "IETF Stream Documents Require IETF

, June 2020,

<https://

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

Rosen, B. "Responsibility Change for the RFC Series" BCP 9 RFC 9282 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC9282

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9282>

, June 2022,

,

,

.

[HTML]

[RFC3261]

[RFC6120]

[RFC7826]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8836]

[RFC9457]

,

WHATWG "HTML" WHATWG Living Standard <https://html.spec.whatwg.org/>
.
Commit snapshot: <https://html.spec.whatwg.org/commit-snapshots/
09db56ba9343c597340b2c7715f43ff9b10826f6/>
.

,

,

,

Rosenberg, J. Schulzrinne, H. Camarillo, G. Johnston, A. Peterson, J. Sparks, R.
Handley, M.
, and
10.17487/RFC3261

,
E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
,
, June 2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

,

Saint-Andre, P. "Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): Core" RFC
6120 DOI 10.17487/RFC6120
,
rfc6120>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

,

.

,

M. Stiemerling, Ed.
,
Schulzrinne, H. Rao, A. Lanphier, R. Westerlund, M.
"Real-Time Streaming Protocol Version 2.0" RFC 7826 DOI 10.17487/RFC7826
,
December 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7826>

, and
,

,

,

.

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

.

,

,

,

, June

Z. Sarker, Ed. "Congestion Control Requirements for Interactive

 and

Jesup, R.
Real-Time Media" RFC 8836 DOI 10.17487/RFC8836
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8836>

,

,

,

.

, January 2021,

<https://

,

Nottingham, M. Wilde, E.
9457 DOI 10.17487/RFC9457
,
rfc9457>

.

, and

,
, July 2023,

S. Dalal "Problem Details for HTTP APIs" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

[W3C.REC-webrtc-20250313]

,

Jennings, C., Ed. Castelli, F., Ed. Boström, H., Ed.
Ed. "WebRTC: Real-Time Communication in Browsers" W3C Recommendation
13 March 2025,
version available at:

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2025/REC-webrtc-20250313/> Latest

<https://www.w3.org/TR/webrtc/>
.

J. Bruaroey,
,

, and

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

Lorenzo Miniero Juliusz Chroboczek Adam Roach Nils Ohlmeier

The authors wish to thank
,
Christer Holmberg Cameron Elliott Gustavo Garcia Jonas Birme Sandro Gauci Christer
Holmberg
feedback, text, and improvement proposals on the document and contributed early
implementations of the spec.

, and everyone else in the WebRTC community that have provided comments,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9725

whip

March 2025

Authors' Addresses

Sergio Garcia Murillo
Millicast
Email:

sergio.garcia.murillo@cosmosoftware.io

Alexandre Gouaillard
CoSMo Software
Email:

alex.gouaillard@cosmosoftware.io

Garcia Murillo & Gouaillard

Standards Track

Page 28

