Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9546
Standards Track
February 2024
2070-1721
G. Mirsky
Ericsson

B. Varga
Ericsson

M. Chen
Huawei

RFC 9546
Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM)
for Deterministic Networking (DetNet) with the
MPLS Data Plane

Abstract

This document defines format and usage principles of the Deterministic Networking (DetNet)
service Associated Channel over a DetNet network with the MPLS data plane. The DetNet service
Associated Channel can be used to carry test packets of active Operations, Administration, and
Maintenance (OAM) protocols that are used to detect DetNet failures and measure performance
metrics.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9546
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9546

OAM for DetNet over MPLS

February 2024

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Terminology and Acronyms

2.2.  Key Words

3.  Active OAM for DetNet Networks with the MPLS Data Plane

3.1.  DetNet Active OAM Encapsulation

3.2.  DetNet PREOF Interaction with Active OAM

4.  OAM Interworking Models

4.1.  OAM of DetNet MPLS Interworking with OAM of TSN

4.2.  OAM of DetNet MPLS Interworking with OAM of DetNet IP

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  DetNet Associated Channel Header (d-ACH) Flags Registry

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

4

7

7

7

9

9

9

9

9

9

10

12

12

 introduces and explains Deterministic Networking (DetNet) architecture and how the

[RFC8655]
Packet Replication, Elimination, and Ordering Functions (PREOF) can be used to ensure a low
packet drop ratio in a DetNet domain.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9546

OAM for DetNet over MPLS

February 2024

Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) protocols are used to detect and localize
network defects and to monitor network performance. Some OAM functions (e.g., failure
detection) are usually performed proactively in the network, while others (e.g., defect
localization) are typically performed on demand. These tasks can be achieved through a
combination of active and hybrid OAM methods, as classified in
presents a format for active OAM in DetNet networks with the MPLS data plane.

. This document

[RFC7799]

Also, this document defines format and usage principles of the DetNet service Associated
Channel over a DetNet network with the MPLS data plane

[RFC8964]
.

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Terminology and Acronyms

The term "DetNet OAM" in this document is used interchangeably with a "set of OAM protocols,
methods, and tools for Deterministic Networking".

BFD:

Bidirectional Forwarding Detection

CFM:

Connectivity Fault Management

d-ACH:

DetNet Associated Channel Header

DetNet:

Deterministic Networking

DetNet Node:

A node that is an actor in the DetNet domain. Examples of DetNet nodes include

DetNet domain edge nodes and DetNet nodes that perform PREOF within the DetNet domain.

E2E:

End to end

F-Label:

A DetNet "forwarding" label. The F-Label identifies the Label Switched Path (LSP) used

to forward a DetNet flow across an MPLS Packet Switched Network (PSN), e.g., a hop-by-hop
label used between label switching routers.

OAM:

Operations, Administration, and Maintenance

PREOF:

Packet Replication, Elimination, and Ordering Functions

PW:

Pseudowire

S-Label:

A DetNet "service" label. An S-Label is used between DetNet nodes that implement the

DetNet service sub-layer functions. An S-Label is also used to identify a DetNet flow at the
DetNet service sub-layer.

TSN:

Time-Sensitive Networking

Underlay Network or Underlay Layer:

The network that provides connectivity between the

DetNet nodes. One example of an underlay layer is an MPLS network that provides LSP
connectivity between DetNet nodes.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9546

OAM for DetNet over MPLS

February 2024

2.2.  Key Words

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Active OAM for DetNet Networks with the MPLS Data Plane

OAM protocols and mechanisms act within the data plane of the particular networking layer;
thus, it is critical that the data plane encapsulation supports OAM mechanisms that comply with
the OAM requirements listed in

[OAM-FRAMEWORK]
.

Operation of a DetNet data plane with an MPLS underlay network is specified in
Within the MPLS underlay network, DetNet flows are to be encapsulated analogous to
pseudowires (PWs) as specified in
Control Word (as defined in

 and used with DetNet) is reproduced in Figure 1.

[RFC4385]

[RFC3985]

[RFC4385]

 and

[RFC8964]
.

. For reference, the Generic PW MPLS

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |0 0 0 0|                Sequence Number                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Generic PW MPLS Control Word Format

PREOF in the DetNet domain is composed of a combination of nodes that perform replication and
elimination functions. The Elimination sub-function always uses the S-Label in conjunction with
the packet sequencing information (i.e., the Sequence Number encoded in the DetNet Control
Word). The Replication sub-function uses the S-Label information only.

3.1.  DetNet Active OAM Encapsulation

DetNet OAM, like PW OAM, uses the PW Associated Channel Header defined in
same time, a DetNet PW can be viewed as a Multi-Segment PW, where DetNet service sub-layer
functions are at the segment endpoints. However, DetNet service sub-layer functions operate per
packet level (not per segment). These per-packet level characteristics of PREOF require additional
fields for proper OAM packet processing. MPLS encapsulation
packet is shown in Figure 2.

 of a DetNet active OAM

[RFC8964]

[RFC4385]

. At the

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9546

OAM for DetNet over MPLS

February 2024

      +---------------------------------+
      |                                 |
      |        DetNet OAM Packet        |
      |                                 |
      +---------------------------------+ <--\
      | DetNet Associated Channel Header|    |
      +---------------------------------+    +--> DetNet active OAM
      |           S-Label               |    |    MPLS encapsulation
      +---------------------------------+    |
      |         [ F-Label(s) ]          |    |
      +---------------------------------+ <--/
      |           Data-Link             |
      +---------------------------------+
      |           Physical              |
      +---------------------------------+

Figure 2: DetNet Active OAM Packet Encapsulation in the MPLS Data Plane

Figure 3 displays encapsulation of a test packet for a DetNet active OAM protocol in case of MPLS
over UDP/IP

[RFC9025]
.

      +---------------------------------+
      |                                 |
      |        DetNet OAM Packet        |
      |                                 |
      +---------------------------------+ <--\
      | DetNet Associated Channel Header|    |
      +---------------------------------+    +--> DetNet active OAM
      |             S-Label             |    |    MPLS encapsulation
      +---------------------------------+    |
      |          [ F-label(s) ]         |    |
      +---------------------------------+ <--+
      |           UDP Header            |    |
      +---------------------------------+    +--> DetNet data plane
      |           IP Header             |    |    IP encapsulation
      +---------------------------------+ <--/
      |           Data-Link             |
      +---------------------------------+
      |           Physical              |
      +---------------------------------+

Figure 3: DetNet Active OAM Packet Encapsulation in MPLS over UDP/IP

Figure 4 displays the format of the DetNet Associated Channel Header (d-ACH).

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9546

OAM for DetNet over MPLS

February 2024

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |0 0 0 1|Version|Sequence Number|         Channel Type          |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                 Node ID               |Level|  Flags  |Session|
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: d-ACH Format

The d-ACH encodes the following fields:

Bits 0..3:

These

MUST

 be 0b0001. This allows the packet to be distinguished from an IP packet

[RFC4928]

 and from a DetNet data packet

[RFC8964]

.

Version:

A 4-bit field. This document specifies version 0.

Section 4.2.1 of [RFC8964]

An unsigned circular 8-bit field. Because a DetNet active OAM test packet

Sequence Number:
includes d-ACH,
Number field in DetNet OAM over the MPLS data plane. The sequence number space is
circular with no restriction on the initial value. The originator DetNet node
value of the Sequence Number field before the transmission of a packet. The initial value
SHOULD
Sequence Number field by 1 for each active OAM packet. The originator
strategies, e.g., for negative testing of Packet Ordering Functions.

 be random (unpredictable). The originator node

 does not apply to handling the Sequence

 increase the value of the

 use other

SHOULD

 set the

MUST

MAY

Channel Type:

A 16-bit field and the value of the DetNet Associated Channel Type. It

MUST

 be

one of the values listed in the IANA "MPLS Generalized Associated Channel (G-ACh) Types
(including Pseudowire Associated Channel Types)" registry

[IANA-G-ACh-Types]

.

Node ID:

An unsigned 20-bit field. The value of the Node ID field identifies the DetNet node

that originated the packet. A DetNet node
MUST
unique in the DetNet domain. Methods for distributing Node ID are outside the scope of
this specification.

 be provisioned with a Node ID that is

Level:

A 3-bit field. Semantically, the Level field is analogous to the Maintenance Domain

[IEEE.802.1Q]

Level in
(defined by the TSN Task Group of the IEEE 802.1 WG
the PREOF concept. A hierarchical relationship between OAM domains can be created
using the Level field value, as illustrated by Figure 18.7 in

. The Level field is used to cope with the "all active path forwarding"
) characteristics of

[IEEE802.1TSNTG]

[IEEE.802.1Q]

.

Flags:

A 5-bit field. The Flags field contains five 1-bit flags. Section 5.1 creates the IANA
"DetNet Associated Channel Header (d-ACH) Flags" registry for new flags to be defined. The
flags defined in this specification are presented in Figure 5.

Session ID:

A 4-bit field. The Session field distinguishes OAM sessions originating from the

same node (a given Maintenance End Point may have multiple simultaneously active OAM
sessions) at the given Level.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9546

OAM for DetNet over MPLS

February 2024

 0 1 2 3 4
+-+-+-+-+-+
|U|U|U|U|U|
+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: DetNet Associated Channel Header Flags Field Format

U: Unused and for future use.

MUST

 be 0 on transmission and ignored on receipt.

According to
the stack. An active OAM packet

[RFC8964]

, a DetNet flow is identified by the S-Label that

MUST

 be at the bottom of

MUST

 include d-ACH immediately following the S-Label.

3.2.  DetNet PREOF Interaction with Active OAM

MAY

 be applied to the

At the DetNet service sub-layer, special functions (notably PREOF)
particular DetNet flow to potentially reduce packet loss, improve the probability of on-time
packet delivery, and ensure in-order packet delivery. PREOF relies on sequencing information in
the DetNet service sub-layer. For a DetNet active OAM packet, PREOF
Number field value as the source of this sequencing information. App-flow and OAM use
different sequence number spaces. PREOF algorithms are executed with respect to the sequence
number space identified by the flow's characteristic information. Although the Sequence Number
field in d-ACH has a range from 0 through 255, it provides sufficient space because the rate of
DetNet active OAM packets is significantly lower compared to the rate of DetNet packets in an
App-flow; therefore, wrapping around is not an issue.

 use the Sequence

MUST

4.  OAM Interworking Models

Interworking of two OAM domains that utilize different networking technology can be realized
by either a peering model or a tunneling model. In a peering model, OAM domains are within the
corresponding network domain. When using the peering model, state changes that are detected
by a Fault Management OAM protocol can be mapped from one OAM domain into another or a
notification, e.g., an alarm can be sent to a central controller. In the tunneling model of OAM
interworking, usually only one active OAM protocol is used. Its test packets are tunneled through
another domain along with the data flow, thus ensuring fate sharing among test and data
packets.

4.1.  OAM of DetNet MPLS Interworking with OAM of TSN

DetNet active OAM can provide end-to-end (E2E) fault management and performance monitoring
for a DetNet flow. In the case of DetNet with an MPLS data plane and an IEEE 802.1 Time-
Sensitive Networking (TSN) sub-network, it implies the interworking of DetNet active OAM with
TSN OAM, of which the data plane aspects are specified in

[RFC9037]
.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9546

OAM for DetNet over MPLS

February 2024

MUST

[IEEE.802.1Q]

, the node that borders both TSN and DetNet MPLS domains

 specifies the mapping of defect states between Ethernet Attachment

When the peering model (Section 4) is used in the Connectivity Fault Management (CFM) OAM
protocol
[RFC7023] [RFC7023]
.
Circuits and associated Ethernet PWs that are part of an E2E emulated Ethernet service and are
also applicable to E2E OAM across DetNet MPLS and TSN domains. The CFM
[ITU.Y1731]
the DetNet MPLS domain, Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD), as specified in
and
could be treated as concatenated such that the diagnostic codes (see
MAY
monitoring can be supported by
domains, respectively. Performance objectives for each domain should refer to metrics that are
composable

Section 6.8.17 of [RFC5880]
 be used to inform the upstream DetNet MPLS node of a TSN segment failure. Performance

 can provide fast detection of a failure in the TSN segment of the DetNet service. In
[RFC5880]

, can be used. To provide E2E failure detection, the TSN and DetNet MPLS segments

 or are defined for each domain separately.

 in the DetNet MPLS and by

[IEEE.802.1Q]

[ITU.Y1731]

[RFC6374]

[RFC5885]

[RFC6049]

 support

 in TSN

)

The following considerations apply when using the tunneling model of OAM interworking
between DetNet MPLS and TSN domains based on general principles described in
[RFC9037]
:

Section 4 of

•

Active OAM test packets
DetNet flow.

MUST

 be mapped to the same TSN Stream ID as the monitored

•

Active OAM test packets
MUST
Class of Service marking (the Traffic Class field value).

 be processed in the TSN domain based on their S-Label and

Mapping between a DetNet flow and TSN Stream in the TSN sub-network is described in
4.1 of [RFC9037]
. The mapping has to be done only on the edge node of the TSN sub-network, and
intermediate TSN nodes do not need to recognize the S-Label. An edge node has two components:

Section

1.

A passive Stream identification function.

2.

An active Stream identification function.

[IEEE.802.1CBdb]

The first component identifies the DetNet flow (using Clause 6.8 of
second component creates the TSN Stream by manipulating the Ethernet header. That
manipulation simplifies the identification of the TSN Stream in the intermediate TSN nodes by
avoiding the need for them to look outside of the Ethernet header. DetNet MPLS OAM packets use
the same S-Label as the DetNet flow data packets. The above-described mapping function treats
these OAM packets as data packets of the DetNet flow. As a result, DetNet MPLS OAM packets are
fate sharing within the TSN sub-network. As an example of the mapping between DetNet MPLS
and TSN, see Annex C.1 of
match MPLS DetNet flows and achieve TSN Streams.

 that, in support of

, describes how to

[IEEE.802.1CBdb]

[RFC9037]

), and the

Note that the tunneling model of the OAM interworking requires that the remote peer of the E2E
OAM domain supports the active OAM protocol selected on the ingress endpoint. For example, if
BFD is used for proactive path continuity monitoring in the DetNet MPLS domain, BFD support
(as defined in

) is necessary at any TSN endpoint of the DetNet service.

[RFC5885]

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9546

OAM for DetNet over MPLS

February 2024

4.2.  OAM of DetNet MPLS Interworking with OAM of DetNet IP

Interworking between active OAM segments in DetNet MPLS and DetNet IP domains can also be
realized using either the peering model or the tunneling model, as discussed in Section 4.1. Using
the same protocol, e.g., BFD over both segments, simplifies the mapping of errors in the peering
model. For example, respective BFD sessions in DetNet MPLS and DetNet IP domains can be in a
concatenated relationship as described in
monitoring over a DetNet IP domain, the Simple Two-way Active Measurement Protocol (STAMP)
[RFC8762]
metrics. Such performance metrics can be used to calculate composable metrics
within DetNet MPLS and DetNet IP domains to reflect the end-to-end DetNet service
performance.

 can be used to measure packet loss and packet delay

Section 6.8.17 of [RFC5880]

. To provide performance

 and its extensions

[RFC6049]

[RFC8972]

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  DetNet Associated Channel Header (d-ACH) Flags Registry

IANA has created the "DetNet Associated Channel Header (d-ACH) Flags" registry within the
"DetNet Associated Channel Header (d-ACH) Flags" registry group. The registration procedure is
"IETF Review"

. There are five flags in the 5-bit Flags field, as defined in Table 1.

[RFC8126]

Bit

0-4

Description

Unassigned

Table 1: DetNet Associated Channel
Header (d-ACH) Flags Registry

6.  Security Considerations

Security considerations discussed in DetNet specifications
[OAM-FRAMEWORK]
MPLS OAM tools like LSP Ping
specification.

 and BFD over PW

[RFC8029]

 are applicable to this document. Security concerns and issues related to

[RFC8655] [RFC8964] [RFC9055]

,

,

, and

[RFC5885]

 also apply to this

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9546

OAM for DetNet over MPLS

February 2024

[RFC7023]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8655]

[RFC8964]

[RFC9025]

,

Mohan, D., Ed. Bitar, N., Ed. Sajassi, A., Ed. DeLord, S. Niger, P.
"MPLS and Ethernet Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM)
Interworking" RFC 7023 DOI 10.17487/RFC7023
,
editor.org/info/rfc7023>
.

, October 2013,

, and

,

,

,

,

R. Qiu

,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Finn, N. Thubert, P. Varga, B.
Architecture" RFC 8655 DOI 10.17487/RFC8655
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8655>
.

, and

,

J. Farkas "Deterministic Networking

,

, October 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Varga, B., Ed. Farkas, J. Berger, L. Malis, A. Bryant, S.
"Deterministic Networking (DetNet) Data Plane: MPLS" RFC 8964 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8964

J. Korhonen
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8964>
.

, January 2021,

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

Varga, B., Ed. Farkas, J. Berger, L. Malis, A.
Networking (DetNet) Data Plane: MPLS over UDP/IP" RFC 9025 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9025

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9025>

S. Bryant "Deterministic

, April 2021,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[IANA-G-ACh-Types]

,

IANA "MPLS Generalized Associated Channel (G-ACh) Types (including
Pseudowire Associated Channel Types)" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/g-
ach-parameters/>

,

.

[IEEE.802.1CBdb]

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks--Frame

,

Replication and Elimination for Reliability--Amendment 2: Extended Stream
Identification Functions" IEEE Std 802.1CBdb-2021
,

, December 2021.

[IEEE.802.1Q]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Network--Bridges and
Bridged Networks" IEEE Std 802.1Q-2018 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2018.8403927
July 2018,

<https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2018.8403927>

,

,

.

,

[IEEE802.1TSNTG]

IEEE 802.1 "Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN) Task Group" TSN Standards

,

,

,

<https://1.ieee802.org/tsn/>

.

[ITU.Y1731]

,

ITU-T "Operation, administration and maintenance (OAM) functions and
mechanisms for Ethernet-based networks" ITU-T Recommendation G.8013/Y.
1731

, June 2023.

,

,

Mirsky, G. Theoleyre, F. Papadopoulos, G. Z. Bernardos, CJ. Varga, B.
,

[OAM-FRAMEWORK]
and
J. Farkas "Framework of Operations, Administration and Maintenance
(OAM) for Deterministic Networking (DetNet)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-ietf-detnet-oam-framework-11
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-detnet-oam-framework-11>

, 8 January 2024,

<https://

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9546

OAM for DetNet over MPLS

February 2024

[RFC3985]

[RFC4385]

[RFC4928]

[RFC5880]

[RFC5885]

[RFC6049]

[RFC6374]

[RFC7799]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8762]

[RFC8972]

[RFC9037]

Bryant, S., Ed.
 and
Architecture" RFC 3985 DOI 10.17487/RFC3985
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc3985>
.

P. Pate, Ed. "Pseudo Wire Emulation Edge-to-Edge (PWE3)

,

, March 2005,

<https://www.rfc-

,

D. McPherson "Pseudowire Emulation
Bryant, S. Swallow, G. Martini, L.
Edge-to-Edge (PWE3) Control Word for Use over an MPLS PSN" RFC 4385 DOI
10.17487/RFC4385
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4385>

, February 2006,

, and

,

,

,

,

L. Andersson "Avoiding Equal Cost Multipath
Swallow, G. Bryant, S.
,
Treatment in MPLS Networks" BCP 128 RFC 4928 DOI 10.17487/RFC4928
,
2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4928>

, and

,

,

,

.

, June

Katz, D.
 and
10.17487/RFC5880

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)" RFC 5880 DOI

,

,

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5880>

.

 and

Nadeau, T., Ed.
for the Pseudowire Virtual Circuit Connectivity Verification (VCCV)" RFC 5885
DOI 10.17487/RFC5885

C. Pignataro, Ed. "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5885>

, June 2010,

,

,

.

Morton, A.
10.17487/RFC6049

E. Stephan "Spatial Composition of Metrics" RFC 6049 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6049>
.

,
, January 2011,

 and

,

,

S. Bryant "Packet Loss and Delay Measurement for MPLS

Frost, D.
,
 and
Networks" RFC 6374 DOI 10.17487/RFC6374
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6374>

.

, September 2011,

<https://www.rfc-

Morton, A. "Active and Passive Metrics and Methods (with Hybrid Types In-
Between)" RFC 7799 DOI 10.17487/RFC7799
,
editor.org/info/rfc7799>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2016,

,
,

.

,

Kompella, K. Swallow, G. Pignataro, C., Ed. Kumar, N. Aldrin, S.
,
"Detecting Multiprotocol Label Switched (MPLS) Data-Plane Failures" RFC 8029
DOI 10.17487/RFC8029
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8029>

M. Chen
, and
,

, March 2017,

,

,

,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Mirsky, G. Jun, G. Nydell, H.
Measurement Protocol" RFC 8762 DOI 10.17487/RFC8762
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8762>

R. Foote "Simple Two-Way Active
,
.

, and

,

,

,

, March 2020,

<https://

,

Mirsky, G. Min, X. Nydell, H. Foote, R. Masputra, A.
E. Ruffini "Simple
,
,
Two-Way Active Measurement Protocol Optional Extensions" RFC 8972 DOI
10.17487/RFC8972
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8972>

, January 2021,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

Varga, B., Ed. Farkas, J. Malis, A.
(DetNet) Data Plane: MPLS over IEEE 802.1 Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN)"
RFC 9037 DOI 10.17487/RFC9037
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, June 2021,
rfc9037>

S. Bryant "Deterministic Networking

, and

,
.

,

,

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9546

OAM for DetNet over MPLS

February 2024

[RFC9055]

A. Hacker "Deterministic Networking
Grossman, E., Ed. Mizrahi, T.
, and
(DetNet) Security Considerations" RFC 9055 DOI 10.17487/RFC9055
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9055>

,
,

,

.

, June 2021,

Acknowledgments

Pascal Thubert

The authors extend their appreciation to
 for his insightful comments and
productive discussion that helped to improve the document. The authors are enormously
grateful to
 for his detailed comments and the inspiring discussion that made this
document clearer and stronger. The authors recognize helpful reviews and suggestions from
Andrew Malis David Black Tianran Zhou
Ethan
Grossman

 for his fantastic help in improving the document.

. And special thanks to

Kiran Makhijani

János Farkas

, and

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Greg Mirsky
Ericsson
Email:

 gregimirsky@gmail.com

Mach(Guoyi) Chen
Huawei
Email:

 mach.chen@huawei.com

Balazs Varga
Ericsson
Budapest
Magyar Tudosok krt. 11.
1117
Hungary
Email:

 balazs.a.varga@ericsson.com

Mirsky, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

