Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9736
7854, 8671, 9069
Standards Track
March 2025
2070-1721
J. Scudder
Juniper Networks

P. Lucente
NTT

RFC 9736
The BGP Monitoring Protocol (BMP) Peer Up
Message Namespace

Abstract

RFC 7854, the BGP Monitoring Protocol (BMP), uses different message types for different
purposes. Most of these are structured as Type, Length, Value (TLV). One message type, the Peer
Up message, lacks a set of TLVs defined for its use, instead sharing a namespace with the
Initiation message. Experience has shown that this namespace sharing was a mistake, as it
hampers the extension of the protocol.

This document updates RFC 7854 by creating an independent namespace for the Peer Up
message. It also updates RFCs 8671 and 9069 by moving defined codepoints into the newly
introduced registry. Compliant implementations of RFCs 7854, 8671, and 9069 also comply with
this specification.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9736
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Scudder & Lucente

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9736

BMP Peer Up Namespace

March 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  String Definition

3.  Changes to Existing RFCs

3.1.  Revision to the Information TLV

3.2.  Revision to the Peer Up Notification

3.3.  Definition of Peer Up Information TLV

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  Normative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

3

3

3

4

5

5

6

6

 defines a number of different BGP Monitoring Protocol (BMP) message types. With the

[RFC7854]
exception of the Route Monitoring message type, these messages are TLV-structured. Most
message types have distinct namespaces and IANA registries. However, the namespace of the
Peer Up message overlaps that of the Initiation message. As BMP has been extended, this overlap
has become problematic. In this document, we create distinct namespaces for the Peer Up and
Initiation messages to eliminate the overlap.

Compliant implementations of
specification.

[RFC7854] [RFC8671]
,

, and

[RFC9069]

 also comply with this

Scudder & Lucente

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9736

BMP Peer Up Namespace

March 2025

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  String Definition

A string TLV is a free-form sequence of UTF-8 characters whose length in bytes is given by the
TLV's Length field. There is no requirement to terminate the string with a null (or any other
particular) character -- the Length field gives its termination.

3.  Changes to Existing RFCs

[RFC7854]

 is updated as detailed in the following subsections.

3.1.  Revision to the Information TLV

The Information TLV defined in
TLV". It is used only by the Initiation message, not by the Peer Up message.

Section 4.4 of [RFC7854]

 is renamed "Initiation Information

The definition of Type = 0 is revised as shown below. Type = 1 and Type = 2 are unchanged; they
are provided for completeness.

•

Type = 0: String. The Information field contains a
administratively assigned. If multiple string TLVs are included, their ordering
preserved when they are reported.

string (Section 2)

. The value is

MUST

 be

•

Type = 1: sysDescr. The Information field contains an ASCII string whose value
to be equal to the value of the sysDescr MIB-II

[RFC1213]

 object.

MUST

 be set

•

Type = 2: sysName. The Information field contains an ASCII string whose value
to be equal to the value of the sysName MIB-II

[RFC1213]

 object.

MUST

 be set

3.2.  Revision to the Peer Up Notification

The final paragraph of
revised

above (Section 3.1)

Section 4.10 of [RFC7854]

 references the Information TLV (which is

). That paragraph is replaced by the following:

•

Information: Information about the peer, using the Peer Up Information TLV format defined
in Section 3.3 of RFC 9736. The String type may be repeated. Inclusion of the Information
field is
Length in the common header.

. Its presence or absence can be inferred by inspection of the Message

OPTIONAL

3.3.  Definition of Peer Up Information TLV

The Peer Up Information TLV is used by the Peer Up message.

Scudder & Lucente

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9736

BMP Peer Up Namespace

March 2025

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|          Information Type     |       Information Length      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Information (variable)                        |
~                                                               ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

•

Information Type (2 bytes): types are as defined in the "BMP Peer Up Message TLVs" registry:

string (Section 2)

◦
Type = 0: String. The Information field contains a
administratively assigned. If multiple strings are included, their ordering
preserved when they are reported.
Type = 3: VRF/Table Name. The Information field contains a UTF-8 string whose value
◦
MUST
conveyed. The string size
◦
Type = 4: Admin Label. The Information field contains a free-form UTF-8 string whose byte
length is given by the Information Length field. The value is administratively assigned.
There is no requirement to terminate the string a with null or any other character.

 be equal to the value of the VRF or table name (e.g., RD instance name) being

 be within the range of 1 to 255 bytes.

. The value is
MUST

MUST

 be

•

Information Length (2 bytes): The length of the following Information field, in bytes.

•

Information (variable): Information about the monitored router, according to the type.

4.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created the "BMP Peer Up Message TLVs" within the "BGP Monitoring Protocol (BMP)
Parameters" registry group and listed this document as the reference.

Registration procedures for this registry are:

Range

Registration Procedures

0, 3-32767

Standards Action

32768-65530

First Come First Served

65531-65534

Experimental

1-2, 65535

Reserved

Table 1

The initial values for this registry are:

Type

Description

Reference

0

String

RFC 9736

Scudder & Lucente

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9736

BMP Peer Up Namespace

March 2025

Type

Description

Reference

1

2

3

4

Reserved

RFC 9736

Reserved

RFC 9736

VRF/Table Name

RFC 9736

Admin Label

RFC 9736

65535

Reserved

RFC 9736

Table 2

IANA has also renamed the "BMP Initiation and Peer Up Information TLVs" registry to "BMP
Initiation Information TLVs" and populated it with the following values:

Type

Description

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

String

RFC 9736

sysDescr

RFC 9736

sysName

RFC 9736

Reserved

RFC 9736

Reserved

RFC 9736

65535

Reserved

RFC 9736

Table 3

5.  Security Considerations

This document does not alter the security considerations of

[RFC7854]

 that continue to apply.

6.  Normative References

[RFC1213]

[RFC2119]

 and

McCloghrie, K.
Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II" STD 17 RFC 1213 DOI 10.17487/
RFC1213

M. Rose "Management Information Base for Network

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1213>

, March 1991,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Scudder & Lucente

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9736

BMP Peer Up Namespace

March 2025

[RFC7854]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8671]

[RFC9069]

Scudder, J., Ed. Fernando, R.
,
RFC 7854 DOI 10.17487/RFC7854
rfc7854>

,
.

, and

S. Stuart "BGP Monitoring Protocol (BMP)"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2016,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

,

Evens, T. Bayraktar, S. Lucente, P. Mi, P.
Out in the BGP Monitoring Protocol (BMP)" RFC 8671 DOI 10.17487/RFC8671
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8671>
November 2019,

S. Zhuang "Support for Adj-RIB-
,

, and
,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Evens, T. Bayraktar, S. Bhardwaj, M.
, and
the BGP Monitoring Protocol (BMP)" RFC 9069 DOI 10.17487/RFC9069
,
2022,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9069>
.

P. Lucente "Support for Local RIB in

, February

,

,

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank

Maxence Younsi

 for his review.

Authors' Addresses

John Scudder
Juniper Networks
1194 N. Mathilda Ave
Sunnyvale CA 94089
,
United States of America
Email:

jgs@juniper.net

Paolo Lucente
NTT
Veemweg 23
3771 MT Barneveld
Netherlands
Email:

paolo@ntt.net

Scudder & Lucente

Standards Track

Page 6

