Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9109
5905
Standards Track
August 2021
2070-1721
F. Gont
SI6 Networks

G. Gont
SI6 Networks

M. Lichvar
Red Hat

RFC 9109
Network Time Protocol Version 4: Port
Randomization

Abstract

The Network Time Protocol (NTP) can operate in several modes. Some of these modes are based
on the receipt of unsolicited packets and therefore require the use of a well-known port as the
local port. However, in the case of NTP modes where the use of a well-known port is not
required, employing such a well-known port unnecessarily facilitates the ability of attackers to
perform blind/oﬀ-path attacks. This document formally updates RFC 5905, recommending the
use of transport-protocol ephemeral port randomization for those modes where use of the NTP
well-known port is not required.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9109

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9109

NTP Port Randomization

August 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Considerations about Port Randomization in NTP

3.1.  Mitigation against Oﬀ-Path Attacks

3.2.  Eﬀects on Path Selection

3.3.  Filtering of NTP Traﬃc

3.4.  Eﬀect on NAPT Devices

4.  Update to RFC 5905

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC5905]

. Since its original implementation, standardization, and deployment, a number of

The Network Time Protocol (NTP) is one of the oldest Internet protocols and is currently speciﬁed
in
vulnerabilities have been found both in the NTP speciﬁcation and in some of its implementations
. Some of these vulnerabilities allow for blind/oﬀ-path attacks, where an attacker can
[NTP-VULN]
send forged packets to one or both NTP peers to achieve Denial of Service (DoS), time shifts, or
other undesirable outcomes. Many of these attacks require the attacker to guess or know at least
a target NTP association, typically identiﬁed by the tuple {srcaddr, srcport, dstaddr, dstport,
keyid} (see

). Some of these parameters may be known or easily guessed.

Section 9.1 of [RFC5905]

NTP can operate in several modes. Some of these modes rely on the ability of nodes to receive
unsolicited packets and therefore require the use of the NTP well-known port (123). However, for
modes where the use of a well-known port is not required, employing the NTP well-known port

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9109

NTP Port Randomization

August 2021

unnecessarily facilitates the ability of attackers to perform blind/oﬀ-path attacks (since
knowledge of the port numbers is typically required for such attacks). A recent study
that analyzes the port numbers employed by NTP clients suggests that numerous NTP clients
employ the NTP well-known port as their local port, or select predictable ephemeral port
numbers, thus unnecessarily facilitating the ability of attackers to perform blind/oﬀ-path attacks
against NTP.

[NIST-NTP]

[RFC6056]

BCP 156
ports. This document aligns NTP with the recommendation in BCP 156
updating
the use of the NTP well-known port is not needed.

 already recommends the randomization of transport-protocol ephemeral
 by formally
 such that port randomization is employed for those NTP modes for which

[RFC5905]

[RFC6056]

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Considerations about Port Randomization in NTP

The following subsections analyze a number of considerations about transport-protocol
ephemeral port randomization when applied to NTP.

3.1.  Mitigation against Oﬀ-Path Attacks

There has been a fair share of work in the area of blind/oﬀ-path attacks against transport
protocols and upper-layer protocols, such as
. Whether the target of the
attack is a transport-protocol instance (e.g., TCP connection) or an upper-layer protocol instance
(e.g., an application-protocol instance), the attacker is required to know or guess the ﬁve-tuple
{Protocol, IP Source Address, IP Destination Address, Source Port, Destination Port} that identiﬁes
the target transport-protocol instance or the transport-protocol instance employed by the target
upper-layer protocol instance. Therefore, increasing the diﬃculty of guessing this ﬁve-tuple
helps mitigate blind/oﬀ-path attacks.

[RFC5927]

[RFC4953]

 and

As a result of these considerations, transport-protocol ephemeral port randomization is a best
current practice (BCP 156) that helps mitigate oﬀ-path attacks at the transport layer. This
 with the existing best current practice on
document aligns the NTP speciﬁcation
[RFC5905]
transport-protocol ephemeral port selection, irrespective of other techniques that may (and
should) be implemented for mitigating oﬀ-path attacks.

We note that transport-protocol ephemeral port randomization is a transport-layer mitigation
against blind/oﬀ-path attacks and does not preclude (nor is it precluded by) other possible
mitigations for oﬀ-path attacks that might be implemented at other layers (e.g.,

[NTP-DATA-

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9109

NTP Port Randomization

August 2021

MINIMIZATION]
against some oﬀ-path attacks
by port randomization

[NTP-security]
.

). For instance, some of the aforementioned mitigations may be ineﬀective

[NTP-FRAG]

 or may beneﬁt from the additional entropy provided

3.2.  Eﬀects on Path Selection

Intermediate systems implementing the Equal-Cost Multipath (ECMP) algorithm may select the
outgoing link by computing a hash over a number of values, including the transport-protocol
source port. Thus, as discussed in
on the measured oﬀset and delay.

, the selected client port may have an inﬂuence

[NTP-CHLNG]

If the source port is changed with each request, packets in diﬀerent exchanges will be more
likely to take diﬀerent paths, which could cause the measurements to be less stable and have a
negative impact on the stability of the clock.

Network paths to/from a given server are less likely to change between requests if port
randomization is applied on a per-association basis. This approach minimizes the impact on the
stability of NTP measurements, but it may cause diﬀerent clients in the same network
synchronized to the same NTP server to have a signiﬁcant stable oﬀset between their clocks. This
is due to their NTP exchanges consistently taking diﬀerent paths with diﬀerent asymmetry in the
network delay.

Section 4 recommends that NTP implementations randomize the ephemeral port number of
client/server associations. The choice of whether to randomize the port number on a per-
association or a per-request basis is left to the implementation.

3.3.  Filtering of NTP Traﬃc

In a number of scenarios (such as when mitigating DDoS attacks), a network operator may want
to diﬀerentiate between NTP requests sent by clients and NTP responses sent by NTP servers. If
an implementation employs the NTP well-known port for the client port, requests/responses
cannot be readily diﬀerentiated by inspecting the source and destination port numbers.
Implementation of port randomization for nonsymmetrical modes allows for simple
diﬀerentiation of NTP requests and responses and for the enforcement of security policies that
may be valuable for the mitigation of DDoS attacks, when all NTP clients in a given network
employ port randomization.

3.4.  Eﬀect on NAPT Devices

Some NAPT devices will reportedly not translate the source port of a packet when a system port
number (i.e., a port number in the range 0-1023)
NAPT devices are employed, use of the NTP well-known port for the client port may limit the
number of hosts that may successfully employ NTP client implementations at any given time.

 is employed. In networks where such

[RFC6335]

NOTES:

NAPT devices are deﬁned in

.
Section 4.1.2 of [RFC2663]

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9109

NTP Port Randomization

August 2021

The reported behavior is similar to the special treatment of UDP port 500, which
has been documented in

Section 2.3 of [RFC3715]
.

In the case of NAPT devices that will translate the source port even when a system port is
employed, packets reaching the external realm of the NAPT will not employ the NTP well-known
port as the source port, as a result of the port translation function being performed by the NAPT
device.

4.  Update to RFC 5905

The following text from Section

9.1 (Peer Process Variables)

 of

[RFC5905]
:

dstport:

UDP port number of the client, ordinarily the NTP port number PORT (123)

assigned by the IANA. This becomes the source port number in packets sent from this
association.

is replaced with:

dstport:

UDP port number of the client. In the case of broadcast server mode (5) and

SHOULD

 contain the NTP port number PORT (123)

symmetric modes (1 and 2), it
assigned by IANA. In the client mode (3), it
number, as speciﬁed in
number of packets sent from this association. The randomized port number
NOT
other associations.

. The value in this variable becomes the source port
SHOULD

 be shared with other associations, to avoid revealing the randomized port to

 contain a randomized port

[RFC6056]

SHOULD

If a client implementation performs transport-protocol ephemeral port
randomization on a per-request basis, it
after each request/response exchange. In order to prevent duplicate or delayed
server packets from eliciting ICMP port unreachable error messages
[RFC0792]
[RFC4443]
speciﬁc period of time (e.g., 3 seconds) before closing the UDP socket/port.

 at the client, the client

SHOULD

 wait for more responses from the server for a

 close the corresponding socket/port

MAY

NOTES:

Randomizing the ephemeral port number on a per-request basis will better
mitigate blind/oﬀ-path attacks, particularly if the socket/port is closed after each
request/response exchange, as recommended above. The choice of whether to

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9109

NTP Port Randomization

August 2021

randomize the ephemeral port number on a per-request or a per-association basis
is left to the implementation, and it should consider the possible eﬀects on path
selection along with its possible impact on time measurement.

[RFC6056]

, an NTP client may normally rely on the operating

On most current operating systems, which implement ephemeral port
randomization
system to perform ephemeral port randomization. For example, NTP
implementations using POSIX sockets may achieve ephemeral port randomization
by not binding the socket with the bind() function or binding it to port 0, which
has a special meaning of "any port". Using the connect() function for the socket
will make the port inaccessible by other systems (that is, only packets from the
speciﬁed remote socket will be received by the application).

5.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

6.  Security Considerations

[RFC6056]

[PEARG-NUMERIC-IDS]

 in particular) have been known for a

The security implications of predictable numeric identiﬁers
predictable transport-protocol port numbers
long time now. However, the NTP speciﬁcation has traditionally followed a pattern of employing
common settings even when not strictly necessary, which at times has resulted in negative
security and privacy implications (see, e.g.,
). The use of the NTP
well-known port (123) for the srcport and dstport variables is not required for all operating
modes. Such unnecessary usage comes at the expense of reducing the amount of work required
for an attacker to successfully perform blind/oﬀ-path attacks against NTP. Therefore, this
document formally updates
, recommending the use of transport-protocol port
randomization when use of the NTP well-known port is not required.

[NTP-DATA-MINIMIZATION]

[RFC5905]

 (and of

This issue has been assigned CVE-2019-11331
Database (NVD).

[VULN-REPORT]

 in the U.S. National Vulnerability

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5905]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

, and
Mills, D. Martin, J., Ed. Burbank, J.
W. Kasch "Network Time Protocol
Version 4: Protocol and Algorithms Speciﬁcation" RFC 5905 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5905

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5905>

, June 2010,

,
,

,

.

,

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9109

NTP Port Randomization

August 2021

[RFC6056]

[RFC8174]

 and

Larsen, M.
Randomization" BCP 156 RFC 6056 DOI 10.17487/RFC6056
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6056>

F. Gont "Recommendations for Transport-Protocol Port
,

, January 2011,

,

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

7.2.  Informative References

[NIST-NTP]

[NTP-CHLNG]

,

 and

J. Levine "Usage Analysis of the NIST Internet Time Service"

Sherman, J.
Journal of Research of the National Institute of Standards and Technology,
,
Volume 121 DOI 10.6028/jres.121.003
pdf/2818.pdf>

<https://tf.nist.gov/general/

, March 2016,

,

.

,

,

Sommars, S. "Challenges in Time Transfer using the Network Time Protocol
(NTP)" Proceedings of the 48th Annual Precise Time and Time Interval Systems
and Applications Meeting, pp. 271-290 DOI 10.33012/2017.14978
, January 2017,
<http://leapsecond.com/ntp/NTP_Paper_Sommars_PTTI2017.pdf>
.

,

[NTP-DATA-MINIMIZATION]

Franke, D.

 and

A. Malhotra "NTP Client Data Minimization"

,

,

[NTP-FRAG]

[NTP-security]

[NTP-VULN]

Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ntp-data-minimization-04
2019,

, 25 March
.
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-ntp-data-minimization-04>

,

,

,
S. Goldberg "Attacking the Network Time
Malhotra, A. Cohen, I. Brakke, E.
, February 2016,
Protocol" NDSS '16 DOI 10.14722/ndss.2016.23090
www.cs.bu.edu/~goldbe/papers/NTPattack.pdf>

<https://

, and

,

.

,

,

,

,
Malhotra, A. Van Gundy, M. Varia, M. Kennedy, H. Gardner, J.
Goldberg "The Security of NTP's Datagram Protocol" Cryptology ePrint Archive
Report 2016/1006 DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-70972-7_23
eprint.iacr.org/2016/1006.pdf>

,
,
, February 2017,

<https://

, and

S.

,

.

,

,

"Network Time Foundation" <http://support.ntp.org/bin/view/Main/
SecurityNotice>

.

,

[PEARG-NUMERIC-IDS]

Gont, F.

 and

I. Arce "On the Generation of Transient Numeric

,

,

Identiﬁers" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-irtf-pearg-numeric-ids-
generation-07
pearg-numeric-ids-generation-07>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-irtf-

, 2 February 2021,

.

,

[RFC0792]

[RFC2663]

,
Postel, J. "Internet Control Message Protocol" STD 5 RFC 792 DOI 10.17487/
, September 1981,
RFC0792

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc792>

.

,

,

,

 and

M. Holdrege "IP Network Address Translator (NAT)

Srisuresh, P.
,
Terminology and Considerations" RFC 2663 DOI 10.17487/RFC2663
1999,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2663>

,

.

,

, August

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9109

NTP Port Randomization

August 2021

[RFC3715]

[RFC4443]

[RFC4953]

[RFC5927]

[RFC6335]

 and

Aboba, B.
W. Dixon "IPsec-Network Address Translation (NAT)
Compatibility Requirements" RFC 3715 DOI 10.17487/RFC3715
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3715>

,

,

.

, March 2004,

, and

Conta, A. Deering, S.
,
(ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Speciﬁcation" STD 89 RFC
4443 DOI 10.17487/RFC4443
,
rfc4443>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

M. Gupta, Ed. "Internet Control Message Protocol

, March 2006,

,

,

.

,
Touch, J. "Defending TCP Against Spooﬁng Attacks" RFC 4953 DOI 10.17487/
, July 2007,
RFC4953

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4953>

,
.

,

,

Gont, F. "ICMP Attacks against TCP" RFC 5927 DOI 10.17487/RFC5927
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5927>

.

,

,

, July 2010,

,

,

Cotton, M. Eggert, L. Touch, J. Westerlund, M.
Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Procedures for the Management of the
Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry" BCP 165 RFC 6335
DOI 10.17487/RFC6335

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6335>

,
S. Cheshire "Internet

, August 2011,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

[VULN-REPORT]

The MITRE Corporation "CVE-2019-1133" National Vulnerability Database

,

,

,

August 2020,

.
<https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-11331>

Acknowledgments

,

The authors would like to thank (in alphabetical order)
,
Dhody Lars Eggert Todd Glassey Blake Hudson Benjamin Kaduk Erik Kline Watson Ladd
,
Aanchal Malhotra Danny Mayer Gary E. Miller Bjorn Mork Hal Murray Francesca Palombini
Tomoyuki Sahara Zaheduzzaman Sarker Dieter Sibold Steven Sommars Jean St-Laurent
,
Kristof Teichel Brian Trammell Éric Vyncke Ulrich Windl
comments on earlier draft versions of this document.

,
,
 for providing valuable
Dan Wing

Ivan Arce Roman Danyliw Dhruv

,
,
,

, and

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Watson Ladd
as the client port (discussed in Section 3.3 of this document).

 raised the problem of DDoS mitigation when the NTP well-known port is employed

The authors would like to thank
implementation (see

<https://www.nwtime.org>

).

Harlan Stenn

 for answering questions about a popular NTP

Fernando Gont
support.

 would like to thank

Nelida Garcia

 and

Jorge Oscar Gont

 for their love and

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9109

NTP Port Randomization

August 2021

Authors' Addresses

Fernando Gont
SI6 Networks
Evaristo Carriego 2644
1706 Haedo, Provincia de Buenos Aires
Argentina
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +54 11 4650 8472
 fgont@si6networks.com
 https://www.si6networks.com

Guillermo Gont
SI6 Networks
Evaristo Carriego 2644
1706 Haedo, Provincia de Buenos Aires
Argentina
Phone:
Email:
URI:

 +54 11 4650 8472
 ggont@si6networks.com
 https://www.si6networks.com

Miroslav Lichvar
Red Hat
Purkynova 115
612 00 Brno
Czech Republic
Email:

 mlichvar@redhat.com

Gont, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

