Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9393
Standards Track
June 2023
2070-1721
H. Birkholz
Fraunhofer SIT

J. Fitzgerald-McKay
National Security Agency

Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

D. Waltermire
NIST

C. Schmidt
The MITRE Corporation

RFC 9393
Concise Software Identification Tags

Abstract

ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015 Software Identification (SWID) tags provide an extensible XML-based
structure to identify and describe individual software components, patches, and installation
bundles. SWID tag representations can be too large for devices with network and storage
constraints. This document defines a concise representation of SWID tags: Concise SWID
(CoSWID) tags. CoSWID supports a set of semantics and features that are similar to those for
SWID tags, as well as new semantics that allow CoSWIDs to describe additional types of
information, all in a more memory-efficient format.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9393
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  The SWID and CoSWID Tag Lifecycle

1.2.  Concise SWID Format

1.3.  Requirements Notation

2.  Concise SWID Data Definition

2.1.  Character Encoding

2.2.  Concise SWID Extensions

2.3.  The concise-swid-tag Map

2.4.  concise-swid-tag Co-constraints

2.5.  The global-attributes Group

2.6.  The entity-entry Map

2.7.  The link-entry Map

2.8.  The software-meta-entry Map

2.9.  The Resource Collection Definition

2.9.1.  The hash-entry Array

2.9.2.  The resource-collection Group

2.9.3.  The payload-entry Map

2.9.4.  The evidence-entry Map

2.10. Full CDDL Specification

3.  Determining the Type of CoSWID

4.  CoSWID Indexed Label Values

4.1.  Version Scheme

4.2.  Entity Role Values

4.3.  Link Ownership Values

4.4.  Link Rel Values

4.5.  Link Use Values

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

5.  "swid" and "swidpath" Expressions

5.1.  "swid" Expressions

5.2.  "swidpath" Expressions

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  CoSWID Items Registry

6.2.  Registries for Software ID Values

6.2.1.  Registration Procedures

6.2.2.  Private Use of Index and Name Values

6.2.3.  Expert Review Criteria

6.2.4.  Software ID Version Scheme Values Registry

6.2.5.  Software ID Entity Role Values Registry

6.2.6.  Software ID Link Ownership Values Registry

6.2.7.  Software ID Link Relationship Values Registry

6.2.8.  Software ID Link Use Values Registry

6.3.  swid+cbor Media Type Registration

6.4.  CoAP Content-Format Registration

6.5.  CBOR Tag Registration

6.6.  URI Scheme Registrations

6.6.1.  URI Scheme "swid"

6.6.2.  URI Scheme "swidpath"

6.7.  CoSWID Model for Use in SWIMA Registration

7.  Signed CoSWID Tags

8.  CBOR-Tagged CoSWID Tags

9.  Security Considerations

10. Privacy Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[SWID]
SWID tags, as defined in ISO-19770-2:2015
, provide a standardized XML-based record
format that identifies and describes a specific release of software, a patch, or an installation
bundle, which are referred to as software components in this document. Different software
components, and even different releases of a particular software component, each have a
different SWID tag record associated with them. SWID tags are meant to be flexible and able to
express a broad set of metadata about a software component.

SWID tags are used to support a number of processes, including but not limited to:

•

Software Inventory Management, representing a part of a Software Asset Management
process

, which requires an accurate list of discernible deployed software components.

[SAM]

•

Vulnerability Assessment, which requires a semantic link between standardized
vulnerability descriptions and software components installed on IT assets

[X.1520]

.

•

Remote Attestation, which requires a link between Reference Integrity Manifests (RIMs) and
Attester-produced event logs that complement attestation evidence

[RFC9334]

.

While there are very few required fields in SWID tags, there are many optional fields that
support different uses. A SWID tag consisting of only required fields might be a few hundred
bytes in size; however, a tag containing many of the optional fields can be many orders of
magnitude larger. Thus, real-world instances of SWID tags can be fairly large, and the
communication of SWID tags in usage scenarios, such as those described earlier, can cause a
large amount of data to be transported. This can be larger than acceptable for constrained
devices and networks. Concise SWID (CoSWID) tags significantly reduce the amount of data
transported as compared to a typical SWID tag through the use of the Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR)

[RFC8949]
.

Size comparisons between XML SWID and CoSWID mainly depend on domain-specific
applications and the complexity of attributes used in instances. While the values stored in
CoSWID are often unchanged and therefore not reduced in size compared to an XML SWID, the
scaffolding that the CoSWID encoding represents is significantly smaller by taking up 10 percent
or less in size. This effect is visible in representation sizes, which in early experiments benefited
from a 50 percent to 85 percent reduction in generic usage scenarios. Additional size reduction is
enabled with respect to the memory footprint of XML parsing/validation.

In a CoSWID, the human-readable labels of SWID data items are replaced with more concise
integer labels (indices). This approach allows SWID and CoSWID to share a common implicit
information model, with CoSWID providing an alternate data model
CoSWID are intended to share the same implicit information model, this specification does not
define this information model or a mapping between the two data formats. While an attempt to

. While SWID and

[RFC3444]

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

align SWID and CoSWID tags has been made here, future revisions of ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015 or
this specification might cause this implicit information model to diverge, since these
specifications are maintained by different standards groups.

The use of CBOR to express SWID information in CoSWID tags allows both CoSWID and SWID
tags to be part of an enterprise security solution for a wider range of endpoints and
environments.

1.1.  The SWID and CoSWID Tag Lifecycle

In addition to defining the format of a SWID tag record, ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015 defines
requirements concerning the SWID tag lifecycle. Specifically, when a software component is
installed on an endpoint, that software component's SWID tag is also installed. Likewise, when
the software component is uninstalled or replaced, the SWID tag is deleted or replaced, as
appropriate. As a result, ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015 describes a system wherein there is a
correspondence between the set of installed software components on an endpoint and the
presence of the corresponding SWID tags for these components on that endpoint. CoSWIDs share
the same lifecycle requirements as a SWID tag.

The SWID specification and supporting guidance provided in NIST Internal Report (NISTIR) 8060
("Guidelines for the Creation of Interoperable Software Identification (SWID) Tags")
GUIDANCE]
following text is paraphrased from these sources.

[SWID-
 define four types of SWID tags: primary, patch, corpus, and supplemental. The

Primary Tag:

A SWID or CoSWID tag that identifies and describes an installed software

component on an endpoint. A primary tag is intended to be installed on an endpoint along
with the corresponding software component.

Patch Tag:

A SWID or CoSWID tag that identifies and describes an installed patch that has made

incremental changes to a software component installed on an endpoint. A patch tag is
intended to be installed on an endpoint along with the corresponding software component
patch.

Corpus Tag:

A SWID or CoSWID tag that identifies and describes an installable software

component in its pre-installation state. A corpus tag can be used to represent metadata about
an installation package or installer for a software component, a software update, or a patch.

Supplemental Tag:

A SWID or CoSWID tag that allows additional information to be associated

with a referenced SWID tag. This allows tools and users to record their own metadata about a
software component without modifying CoSWID primary or patch tags created by a software
provider.

The type of a tag is determined by specific data elements, which are discussed in Section 3.
Section 3 also provides normative language for CoSWID semantics that implement this lifecycle.
The following information helps to explain how these semantics apply to the use of a CoSWID
tag.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Corpus, primary, and patch tags have similar functions in that they describe the existence and/or
presence of different types of software components (e.g., software installers, software
installations, software patches) and, potentially, different states of these software components.
Supplemental tags have the same structure as other tags but are used to provide information not
contained in the referenced corpus, primary, and patch tags. All four tag types come into play at
various points in the software lifecycle and support software management processes that depend
on the ability to accurately determine where each software component is in its lifecycle.

                                  +------------+
                                  v            |
Software      Software        Software     Software      Software
Deployment -> Installation -> Patching  -> Upgrading  -> Removal

Corpus        Primary         Primary      xPrimary      xPrimary
Supplemental  Supplemental    Supplemental xSupplemental xSupplemental
                              Patch        xPatch
                                           Primary
                                           Supplemental

Figure 1: Use of Tag Types in the Software Lifecycle

Figure 1 illustrates the steps in the software lifecycle and the relationships among those lifecycle
events supported by the four types of SWID and CoSWID tags. A detailed description of the four
tag types is provided in Section 2.3. The figure identifies the types of tags that are used in each
lifecycle event.

There are many ways in which software tags might be managed for the host the software is
installed on. For example, software tags could be made available on the host or to an external
software manager when storage is limited on the host.

In these cases, the host or external software manager is responsible for management of the tags,
including deployment and removal of the tags as indicated by the above lifecycle. Tags are
deployed, and previously deployed tags are typically removed (indicated by an "x" prefix) at each
lifecycle stage as follows:

Software Deployment:

Before the software component is installed (i.e., pre-installation),
and while the product is being deployed, a corpus tag provides information about the
installation files and distribution media (e.g., CD/DVD, distribution package).

Corpus tags are not actually deployed on the target system but are intended to support
deployment procedures and their dependencies at install time, such as to verify the installation
media.

Software Installation:

A primary tag will be installed with the software component (or

subsequently created) to uniquely identify and describe the software component.
Supplemental tags are created to augment primary tags with additional site-specific or

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

extended information. While not illustrated in the figure, patch tags can also be installed
during software installation to provide information about software fixes deployed along
with the base software installation.

Software Patching:

When a patch is applied to the software component, a new patch tag is
provided, supplying details about the patch and its dependencies. While not illustrated in
the figure, a corpus tag can also provide information about the patch installer and
patching dependencies that need to be installed before the patch.

Software Upgrading:

As a software component is upgraded to a new version, new primary

and supplemental tags replace existing tags, enabling timely and accurate tracking of
updates to software inventory. While not illustrated in the figure, a corpus tag can also
provide information about the upgrade installer and dependencies that need to be
installed before the upgrade.

Note: In the context of software tagging, software patching and updating
differ in an important way. When installing a patch, a set of file
modifications are made to pre-installed software; these modifications do not
alter the version number or the descriptive metadata of an installed
software component. An update can also make a set of file modifications; in
that case, the version number or the descriptive metadata of an installed
software component is changed.

Software Removal:

Upon removal of the software component, relevant SWID tags are

removed. This removal event can trigger timely updates to software inventory reflecting
the removal of the product and any associated patch or supplemental tags.

As illustrated in the figure, supplemental tags can be associated with any corpus, primary, or
patch tag to provide additional metadata about an installer, installed software, or installed patch,
respectively.

Understanding the use of CoSWIDs in the software lifecycle provides a basis for understanding
the information provided in a CoSWID and the associated semantics of this information. Each
different SWID and CoSWID tag type provides different sets of information. For example, a
"corpus tag" is used to describe a software component's installation image on an installation
medium, while a "patch tag" is meant to describe a patch that modifies some other software
component.

1.2.  Concise SWID Format

This document defines the CoSWID tag format, which is based on CBOR. CBOR-based CoSWID
tags offer a more concise representation of SWID information as compared to the XML-based
SWID tag representation in ISO-19770-2:2015. The structure of a CoSWID is described via the
[RFC8610]
Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL)
. The resulting CoSWID data definition is
aligned with the information able to be expressed with the XML Schema definition of

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

ISO-19770-2:2015
common set of software component information and allows CoSWID tags to support the same
uses as a SWID tag.

. This alignment allows both SWID and CoSWID tags to represent a

[SWID]

The vocabulary (i.e., the CDDL names of the types and members used in the CoSWID CDDL
specification) is mapped to more concise labels represented as small integer values (indices). The
names used in the CDDL specification and the mapping to the CBOR representation using integer
indices are based on the vocabulary of the XML attribute and element names defined in ISO/IEC
19770-2:2015.

1.3.  Requirements Notation

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Concise SWID Data Definition

The following describes the general rules and processes for encoding data using CDDL
representation. Prior familiarity with CBOR and CDDL concepts will be helpful in understanding
this CoSWID specification.

[CamelCase]

[KebabCase]

This section describes the conventions by which a CoSWID is represented in the CDDL structure.
 used in the XML Schema definition is changed to a hyphen-
The CamelCase notation
separated notation
 (e.g., "ResourceCollection" is named "resource-collection") in the
CoSWID CDDL specification. This deviation from the original notation used in the XML
representation reduces ambiguity when referencing certain attributes in corresponding textual
descriptions. An attribute referred to by its name in CamelCase notation explicitly relates to XML
SWID tags; an attribute referred to by its name in KebabCase notation explicitly relates to CBOR
CoSWID tags. This approach simplifies the composition of further work that will reference both
XML SWID and CBOR CoSWID documents.

In most cases, mapping attribute names between SWID and CoSWID can be done automatically
by converting between CamelCase and KebabCase attribute names. However, some CoSWID
CDDL attribute names show greater variation relative to their corresponding SWID XML Schema
attributes. This is done when the change improves clarity in the CoSWID specification. For
example, the "name" and "version" SWID fields correspond to the "software-name" and
"software-version" CoSWID fields, respectively. As such, it is not always possible to mechanically
translate between corresponding attribute names in the two formats. In such cases, a manual
mapping will need to be used. XPath expressions
names; see Section 5.2.

[W3C.REC-xpath20-20101214]

 need to use SWID

The 57 human-readable text labels of the CDDL-based CoSWID vocabulary are mapped to integer
indices via a block of rules at the bottom of the definition. This allows a more concise integer-
based form to be stored or transported, as compared to the less efficient text-based form of the
original vocabulary.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Through the use of CDDL-based integer labels, CoSWID allows for future expansion in
subsequent revisions of this specification and through extensions (see Section 2.2). New
constructs can be associated with a new integer index. A deprecated construct can be replaced by
a new construct with a new integer index. An implementation can use these integer indices to
identify the construct to parse. The "CoSWID Items" registry, defined in Section 6.1, is used to
ensure that new constructs are assigned a unique index value. This approach avoids the need to
have an explicit CoSWID version.

In a number of places, the value encoding admits both integer values and text strings. The
integer values are defined in a registry specific to the kind of value; the text values are not
intended for interchange and are exclusively meant for private use as defined in Section 6.2.2.
 use string values based on the names registered in the registry, as these
Encoders
values are less concise than their index value equivalent; a decoder
to accept text strings that are not specified in this document (and ignore the construct if a string
is unknown). In the rest of this document, we call this an "integer label with text escape".

, however, be prepared

SHOULD NOT

MUST

The root of the CDDL specification provided by this document is the rule coswid (as defined in
Section 8):

start = coswid

In CBOR, an array is encoded using bytes that identify the array, and the array's length or stop
point (see
notation is used.

). To make items that support one or more values, the following CDDL

[RFC8949]

_name_ = (_label_ => _data_ / [ 2* _data_ ])

The CDDL rule above allows either a single data item or an array of two or more data values to
be provided. When a singleton data value is provided, the CBOR markers for the array, array
length, and stop point are not needed, saving bytes. When two or more data values are provided,
these values are encoded as an array. This modeling pattern is used frequently in the CoSWID
CDDL specification to allow for more efficient encoding of singleton values.

Usage of this construct can be simplified using

one-or-more<T> = T / [ 2* T ]

simplifying the above example to

_name_ = (_label_ => one-or-more<_data_>)

The following subsections describe the different parts of the CoSWID model.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

2.1.  Character Encoding

The CDDL "text" type is represented in CBOR as a major type 3, which represents a string of
Unicode characters that are encoded as UTF-8
both SWID and CoSWID use UTF-8 for the encoding of characters in text strings.

Section 3.1 of [RFC8949]

[RFC3629]

 (see

). Thus,

To ensure that UTF-8 character strings are able to be encoded/decoded and exchanged
interoperably, text strings in CoSWID
Unicode definition provided in

 be encoded in a way that is consistent with the Net-

[RFC5198]
.

MUST

All names registered with IANA according to the requirements in Section 6.2 also
according to the XML Schema NMTOKEN data type (see
Section 3.3.4) to ensure compatibility with the SWID specification where these names are used.

 be valid
[W3C.REC-xmlschema-2-20041028]
,

MUST

2.2.  Concise SWID Extensions

The CoSWID specification contains two features that are not included in the SWID specification
on which it is based. These features are:

•

The explicit definition of types for some attributes in the ISO-19770-2:2015 XML
representation that are typically represented by the any-attribute item in the SWID model.
These are covered in Section 2.5.

•

The inclusion of extension points in the CoSWID specification using CDDL sockets (see
Section 3.9 of [RFC8610]
). The use of CDDL sockets allows for well-formed extensions to be
defined in supplementary CDDL descriptions that support additional uses of CoSWID tags
that go beyond the original scope of ISO-19770-2:2015 tags.

The following CDDL sockets (extension points) are defined in this document; they allow the
addition of new information structures to their respective CDDL groups.

Map Name

CDDL Socket

Defined in

concise-swid-tag

$$coswid-extension

Section 2.3

entity-entry

$$entity-extension

link-entry

$$link-extension

Section 2.6

Section 2.7

software-meta-entry

$$software-meta-extension

Section 2.8

resource-collection

$$resource-collection-extension

Section 2.9.2

file-entry

$$file-extension

Section 2.9.2

directory-entry

$$directory-extension

Section 2.9.2

process-entry

$$process-extension

Section 2.9.2

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Map Name

CDDL Socket

Defined in

resource-entry

$$resource-extension

Section 2.9.2

payload-entry

$$payload-extension

Section 2.9.3

evidence-entry

$$evidence-extension

Section 2.9.4

Table 1: CoSWID CDDL Group Extension Points

The "CoSWID Items" registry, defined in Section 6.1, provides a registration mechanism allowing
new items, and their associated index values, to be added to the CoSWID model through the use
of the CDDL sockets described in the table above. This registration mechanism provides for well-
known index values for data items in CoSWID extensions, allowing these index values to be
recognized by implementations supporting a given extension.

The following additional CDDL sockets are defined in this document to allow for adding new
values to corresponding type choices (i.e., to represent enumerations) via custom CDDL
specifications.

Enumeration Name

CDDL Socket

Defined in

version-scheme

$version-scheme

Section 4.1

role

$role

Section 4.2

ownership

$ownership

Section 4.3

rel

use

$rel

$use

Section 4.4

Section 4.5

Table 2: CoSWID CDDL Enumeration Extension Points

A number of IANA registries for CoSWID values are also defined in Section 6.2; these registries
allow new values to be registered with IANA for the enumerations above. This registration
mechanism supports the definition of new well-known index values and names for new
enumeration values used by CoSWID, which can also be used by other software tagging
specifications. This registration mechanism allows new standardized enumerated values to be
shared between multiple tagging specifications (and associated implementations) over time.

2.3.  The concise-swid-tag Map

The CDDL specification for the root concise-swid-tag map is as follows. This rule and its
constraints

 be followed when creating or validating a CoSWID tag:

MUST

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

concise-swid-tag = {
  tag-id => text / bstr .size 16,
  tag-version => integer,
  ? corpus => bool,
  ? patch => bool,
  ? supplemental => bool,
  software-name => text,
  ? software-version => text,
  ? version-scheme => $version-scheme,
  ? media => text,
  ? software-meta => one-or-more<software-meta-entry>,
  entity => one-or-more<entity-entry>,
  ? link => one-or-more<link-entry>,
  ? payload-or-evidence,
  * $$coswid-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

payload-or-evidence //= ( payload => payload-entry )
payload-or-evidence //= ( evidence => evidence-entry )

tag-id = 0
software-name = 1
entity = 2
evidence = 3
link = 4
software-meta = 5
payload = 6
corpus = 8
patch = 9
media = 10
supplemental = 11
tag-version = 12
software-version = 13
version-scheme = 14

$version-scheme /= multipartnumeric
$version-scheme /= multipartnumeric-suffix
$version-scheme /= alphanumeric
$version-scheme /= decimal
$version-scheme /= semver
$version-scheme /= int / text
multipartnumeric = 1
multipartnumeric-suffix = 2
alphanumeric = 3
decimal = 4
semver = 16384

The following list describes each member of the concise-swid-tag root map.

global-attributes:

A list of items, including an optional language definition to support the

processing of text-string values and an unbounded set of any-attribute items. Described in
Section 2.5.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

tag-id (index 0):

A 16-byte binary string, or a textual identifier, uniquely referencing a software

MUST

 be globally unique. Failure to ensure global uniqueness

component. The tag identifier
can create ambiguity in tag use, since the tag-id serves as the global key for matching and
lookups. If represented as a 16-byte binary string, the identifier
Unique Identifier (UUID) as defined by
identifier is structured, but examples include a 16-byte Globally Unique Identifier (GUID) (e.g.,
, or a DNS domain name followed by a "/" and a text string, where the
class 4 UUID)
domain name serves to ensure uniqueness across organizations. A textual tag-id value
MUST
 contain a sequence of two underscores ("__"). This is because a sequence of two
NOT
underscores is used to separate the TAG_CREATOR_REGID value and UNIQUE_ID value in a
Software Identifier and a sequence of two underscores in a tag-id value could create
ambiguity when parsing this identifier. See Section 6.7.

 be a valid Universally
. There are no strict guidelines on how the

[RFC4122]

[RFC4122]

MUST

software-name (index 1):

A textual item that provides the software component's name. This
name is likely the same name that would appear in a package management tool. This item
.
maps to '/SoftwareIdentity/@name' in

[SWID]

entity (index 2):

Provides information about one or more organizations responsible for

producing the CoSWID tag, and producing or releasing the software component referenced by
this CoSWID tag. Described in Section 2.6.

evidence (index 3):

Can be used to record the results of a software discovery process used to

identify untagged software on an endpoint or to represent indicators for why software is
believed to be installed on the endpoint. In either case, a CoSWID tag can be created by the
tool performing an analysis of the software components installed on the endpoint. This item is
mutually exclusive to payload, as evidence is always generated on the target device ad hoc.
Described in Section 2.9.4.

link (index 4):

Provides a means to establish relationship arcs between the tag and another

item. A given link can be used to establish the relationship between tags or to reference
another resource that is related to the CoSWID tag, e.g., vulnerability database association,
Resource-Oriented Lightweight Information Exchange (ROLIE) Feed
Usage Description (MUD) resource
modeled after the HTML "link" element. Described in Section 2.7.

, software download location, etc.). This is

[RFC8520]

[RFC8322]

, Manufacturer

software-meta (index 5):

An open-ended map of key/value data pairs. A number of predefined

keys can be used within this item providing for common usage and semantics across the
industry. The use of this map allows any additional attribute to be included in the tag. It is
expected that industry groups will use a common set of attribute names to allow for
interoperability within their communities. Described in Section 2.8. This item maps to '/
SoftwareIdentity/Meta' in

[SWID]

.

payload (index 6):

Represents a collection of software artifacts (described by child items) that
compose the target software. For example, these artifacts could be the files included with an
installer for a corpus tag or installed on an endpoint when the software component is
installed for a primary or patch tag. The artifacts listed in a payload may be a superset of the
software artifacts that are actually installed. Based on user selections at install time, an

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

installation might not include every artifact that could be created or executed on the endpoint
when the software component is installed or run. This item is mutually exclusive to evidence,
as payload can only be provided by an external entity. Described in Section 2.9.3.

corpus (index 8):

A boolean value that indicates if the tag identifies and describes an installable

software component in its pre-installation state. Installable software includes an installation
package or installer for a software component, a software update, or a patch. If the CoSWID
tag represents installable software, the corpus item
default value

 be set to "true". If not provided, the

 be considered "false".

MUST

MUST

patch (index 9):

A boolean value that indicates if the tag identifies and describes an installed

patch that has made incremental changes to a software component installed on an endpoint.
If a CoSWID tag is for a patch, the patch item
value
installation of the associated software package changes the version of a software component.

 be considered "false". A patch item's value

 be set to "true". If not provided, the default

 be set to "true" if the

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

media (index 10):

A text value that provides a hint to the tag consumer to understand what

target platform this tag applies to. This item
W3C "Media Queries Level 3" Recommendation (see
Support for media queries is included here for interoperability with
provide any further requirements for media query use. Thus, this specification does not
clarify how a media query is to be used for a CoSWID.

 be formatted as a query as defined by the
[W3C.REC-mediaqueries-3-20220405]

, which does not

[SWID]

MUST

).

supplemental (index 11):

A boolean value that indicates if the tag is providing additional

information to be associated with another referenced SWID or CoSWID tag. This allows tools
and users to record their own metadata about a software component without modifying
SWID primary or patch tags created by a software provider. If a CoSWID tag is a supplemental
tag, the supplemental item
considered "false".

 be set to "true". If not provided, the default value

MUST

MUST

 be

tag-version (index 12):

An integer value that indicates the specific release revision of the tag.

Typically, the initial value of this field is set to 0 and the value is increased for subsequent tags
produced for the same software component release. This value allows a CoSWID tag producer
to correct an incorrect tag previously released without indicating a change to the underlying
software component the tag represents. For example, the tag-version could be changed to add
new metadata, to correct a broken link, to add a missing payload entry, etc. When producing a
revised tag, the new tag-version value

 be greater than the old tag-version value.

MUST

software-version (index 13):

A textual value representing the specific release or development

version of the software component. This item maps to '/SoftwareIdentity/@version' in

[SWID]

.

version-scheme (index 14):

An integer or textual value representing the versioning scheme

used for the software-version item, as an integer label with text escape. For the "Version
 be an index value in the
Scheme" values, see Section 4.1. If an integer value is used, it
range -256 to 65535. Integer values in the range -256 to -1 are reserved for testing and use in
closed environments (see Section 6.2.2). Integer values in the range 0 to 65535 correspond to
registered entries in the IANA "Software ID Version Scheme Values" registry (see Section
6.2.4).

MUST

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

$$coswid-extension: A CDDL socket that is used to add new information structures to the

concise-swid-tag root map. See Section 2.2.

2.4.  concise-swid-tag Co-constraints

The following co-constraints apply to the information provided in the concise-swid-tag group.

•

The patch and supplemental items

MUST NOT

 both be set to "true".

•

If the patch item is set to "true", the tag
with both the rel item value of "patches" and an href item specifying an association with the
software that was patched. Without at least one link item, the target of the patch cannot be
identified and the patch tag cannot be applied without external context.

 contain at least one link item (see Section 2.7)

MUST

•

If all of the corpus, patch, and supplemental items are "false" or if the corpus item is set to
"true", then a software-version item
software component.

 be included with a value set to the version of the

MUST

2.5.  The global-attributes Group

The global-attributes group provides a list of items, including an optional language definition to
support the processing of text-string values, and an unbounded set of any-attribute items
allowing for additional items to be provided as a general point of extension in the model.

The CDDL for the global-attributes group follows:

global-attributes = (
  ? lang => text,
  * any-attribute,
)

any-attribute = (
  label => one-or-more<text> / one-or-more<int>
)

label = text / int

The following list describes each child item of this group.

A textual language tag that conforms with the IANA "Language Subtag Registry"

. The context of the specified language applies to all sibling and descendant textual

lang (index 15):
[RFC5646]
values, unless a descendant object has defined a different language tag. Thus, a new context is
established when a descendant object redefines a new language tag. All textual values within
 be considered expressed in the specified language.
a given context

MUST

any-attribute:

A sub-group that provides a means to include arbitrary information via label/

index ("key") value pairs. Labels can be either a single integer or text string. Values can be a
single integer, a text string, or an array of integers or text strings.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

2.6.  The entity-entry Map

The CDDL for the entity-entry map follows:

entity-entry = {
  entity-name => text,
  ? reg-id => any-uri,
  role => one-or-more<$role>,
  ? thumbprint => hash-entry,
  * $$entity-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

entity-name = 31
reg-id = 32
role = 33
thumbprint = 34

$role /= tag-creator
$role /= software-creator
$role /= aggregator
$role /= distributor
$role /= licensor
$role /= maintainer
$role /= int / text
tag-creator=1
software-creator=2
aggregator=3
distributor=4
licensor=5
maintainer=6

The following list describes each child item of this group.

global-attributes:

The global-attributes group as described in Section 2.5.

entity-name (index 31):

The textual name of the organizational entity claiming the roles

specified by the role item for the CoSWID tag. This item maps to '/SoftwareIdentity/Entity/
@name' in

[SWID]

.

reg-id (index 32):

Registration ID. This value is intended to uniquely identify a naming authority

in a given scope (e.g., global, organization, vendor, customer, administrative domain, etc.) for
[RFC3986]
the referenced entity. The value of a registration ID
; it
is not intended to be dereferenced. The scope will usually be the scope of an organization.

 be a URI as defined in

MUST

role (index 33):

An integer or textual value (integer label with text escape; see Section 2)

representing the relationship(s) between the entity and this tag or the referenced software
 be an index value in the range -256 to 255.
component. If an integer value is used, it

MUST

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Integer values in the range -256 to -1 are reserved for testing and use in closed environments
(see Section 6.2.2). Integer values in the range 0 to 255 correspond to registered entries in the
IANA "Software ID Entity Role Values" registry (see Section 6.2.5).

The following additional requirements exist for the use of the role item:

•

An entity item
indicates the organization that created the CoSWID tag.

MUST

 be provided with the role of "tag-creator" for every CoSWID tag. This

•

SHOULD

An entity item
tag, if this information is known to the tag creator. This indicates the organization that
created the referenced software component.

 be provided with the role of "software-creator" for every CoSWID

thumbprint (index 34):

Value that provides a hash (i.e., the thumbprint) of the signing entity's
public key certificate. This item provides an indicator of which entity signed the CoSWID tag,
which will typically be the tag creator. See Section 2.9.1 for more details on the use of the
hash-entry data structure.

$$entity-extension:
Section 2.2.

A CDDL socket that can be used to extend the entity-entry group model. See

2.7.  The link-entry Map

The CDDL for the link-entry map follows:

link-entry = {
  ? artifact => text,
  href => any-uri,
  ? media => text,
  ? ownership => $ownership,
  rel => $rel,
  ? media-type => text,
  ? use => $use,
  * $$link-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

media = 10
artifact = 37
href = 38
ownership = 39
rel = 40
media-type = 41
use = 42

$ownership /= shared
$ownership /= private
$ownership /= abandon
$ownership /= int / text
abandon=1
private=2
shared=3

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

$rel /= ancestor
$rel /= component
$rel /= feature
$rel /= installationmedia
$rel /= packageinstaller
$rel /= parent
$rel /= patches
$rel /= requires
$rel /= see-also
$rel /= supersedes
$rel /= supplemental
$rel /= -256..65536 / text
ancestor=1
component=2
feature=3
installationmedia=4
packageinstaller=5
parent=6
patches=7
requires=8
see-also=9
supersedes=10
supplemental=11

$use /= optional
$use /= required
$use /= recommended
$use /= int / text
optional=1
required=2
recommended=3

The following list describes each member of this map.

global-attributes:

The global-attributes group as described in Section 2.5.

media (index 10):

A value that provides a hint to the consumer of the link so that the consumer

understands what target platform the link is applicable to. This item represents a query as
defined by the W3C "Media Queries Level 3" Recommendation (see
mediaqueries-3-20220405]
Section 2.3, support for media queries is included here for interoperability with
which does not provide any further requirements for media query use. Thus, this
specification does not clarify how a media query is to be used for a CoSWID.

). As highlighted in the definition of the media item provided in

[W3C.REC-

[SWID]
,

artifact (index 37):

To be used with rel="installationmedia". This item's value provides the

absolute filesystem path to the installer executable or script that can be run to launch the
referenced installation. Links with the same artifact name
 be considered mirrors of
each other, allowing the installation media to be acquired from any of the described sources.

MUST

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

href (index 38):

A URI-reference

[RFC3986]

can be, but is not limited to, the following (which is a slightly modified excerpt from

 for the referenced resource. The href item's value
[SWID]

):

•

If no URI scheme is provided, then the URI-reference is a relative reference to the base
URI of the CoSWID tag, i.e., the URI under which the CoSWID tag was provided -- for
example, "./folder/supplemental.coswid".

•

This item can be a physical resource location with any acceptable URI scheme (e.g., <file://
>, <http://>, <https://>, <ftp://>).

•

A URI-like expression with "swid:" as the scheme refers to another SWID or CoSWID by
the referenced tag's tag-id. This expression needs to be resolved in the context of the
endpoint by software that can look up other SWID or CoSWID tags. For example, "swid:
2df9de35-0aff-4a86-ace6-f7dddd1ade4c" references the tag with the tag-id value
"2df9de35-0aff-4a86-ace6-f7dddd1ade4c". See Section 5.1 for guidance on the "swid"
expressions.

•

This item can be a URI-like expression with "swidpath:" as the scheme, which refers to
[W3C.REC-xpath20-20101214]
another software tag via an XPath query
in that tag (Section 5.2). This scheme is provided for compatibility with
specification does not define how to resolve an XPath query in the context of CBOR. See
Section 5.2 for guidance on the "swidpath" expressions.

 that matches items
[SWID]
. This

ownership (index 39):

An integer or textual value (integer label with text escape; see Section 2).

See Section 4.3 for the list of values available for this item. This item is used when the href
item references another software component to indicate the degree of ownership between the
software component referenced by the CoSWID tag and the software component referenced
by the link. If an integer value is used, it
Integer values in the range -256 to -1 are reserved for testing and use in closed environments
(see Section 6.2.2). Integer values in the range 0 to 255 correspond to registered entries in the
"Software ID Link Ownership Values" registry.

 be an index value in the range -256 to 255.

MUST

rel (index 40):

MUST

An integer or textual value (integer label with text escape; see Section 2). See
Section 4.4 for the list of values available for this item. This item identifies the relationship
between this CoSWID and the target resource identified by the href item. If an integer value is
used, it
 be an index value in the range -256 to 65535. Integer values in the range -256 to
-1 are reserved for testing and use in closed environments (see Section 6.2.2). Integer values in
the range 0 to 65535 correspond to registered entries in the IANA "Software ID Link
Relationship Values" registry (see Section 6.2.7). If a string value is used, it
private use name as defined in Section 6.2.2 or a "Relation Name" from the IANA "Link
Relation Types" registry (see
by
registry matches a Relation Name defined in the IANA "Link Relation Types" registry, the
index value in the IANA "Software ID Link Relationship Values" registry
instead, as this relationship has a specialized meaning in the context of a CoSWID tag. String
values correspond to registered entries in the "Software ID Link Relationship Values" registry.

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/link-relations/>
. When a string value defined in the IANA "Software ID Link Relationship Values"

) as defined

 be either a

[RFC8288]

 be used

MUST

MUST

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

media-type (index 41):

Supplies the resource consumer with a hint regarding what type of

resource to expect. A link can point to arbitrary resources on the endpoint, local network, or
Internet using the href item. (This is a hint: there is no obligation for the server hosting the
target of the URI to use the indicated media type when the URI is dereferenced.) Media types
are identified by referencing a "Name" from the IANA "Media Types" registry (see
www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/>
in

). This item maps to '/SoftwareIdentity/Link/@type'

<https://

[SWID]

.

use (index 42):

An integer or textual value (integer label with text escape; see Section 2). See
Section 4.5 for the list of values available for this item. This item is used to determine if the
referenced software component has to be installed before installing the software component
identified by the CoSWID tag. If an integer value is used, it
 be an index value in the
range -256 to 255. Integer values in the range -256 to -1 are reserved for testing and use in
closed environments (see Section 6.2.2). Integer values in the range 0 to 255 correspond to
registered entries in the IANA "Software ID Link Use Values" registry (see Section 6.2.8). If a
 be a private use name as defined in Section 6.2.2. String values
string value is used, it
correspond to registered entries in the "Software ID Link Use Values" registry.

MUST

MUST

$$link-extension:
Section 2.2.

A CDDL socket that can be used to extend the link-entry map model. See

2.8.  The software-meta-entry Map

The CDDL for the software-meta-entry map follows:

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

software-meta-entry = {
  ? activation-status => text,
  ? channel-type => text,
  ? colloquial-version => text,
  ? description => text,
  ? edition => text,
  ? entitlement-data-required => bool,
  ? entitlement-key => text,
  ? generator => text / bstr .size 16,
  ? persistent-id => text,
  ? product => text,
  ? product-family => text,
  ? revision => text,
  ? summary => text,
  ? unspsc-code => text,
  ? unspsc-version => text,
  * $$software-meta-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

activation-status = 43
channel-type = 44
colloquial-version = 45
description = 46
edition = 47
entitlement-data-required = 48
entitlement-key = 49
generator = 50
persistent-id = 51
product = 52
product-family = 53
revision = 54
summary = 55
unspsc-code = 56
unspsc-version = 57

The following list describes each child item of this group.

global-attributes:

The global-attributes group as described in Section 2.5.

activation-status (index 43):

A textual value that identifies how the software component has

been activated, which might relate to specific terms and conditions for its use (e.g., trial,
serialized, licensed, unlicensed, etc.) and relate to an entitlement. This attribute is typically
used in supplemental tags, as it contains information that might be selected during a specific
install.

channel-type (index 44):

A textual value that identifies which sales, licensing, or marketing

channel the software component has been targeted for (e.g., volume, retail, original
equipment manufacturer (OEM), academic, etc.). This attribute is typically used in
supplemental tags, as it contains information that might be selected during a specific install.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

colloquial-version (index 45):

A textual value for the software component's informal or

colloquial version. Examples may include a year value, a major version number, or a similar
value used to identify a group of specific software component releases that are part of the
same release/support cycle. This version can be the same through multiple releases of a
software component, while the software-version specified in the concise-swid-tag group is
much more specific and will change for each software component release. This version is
intended to be used for string comparison (byte by byte) only and is not intended to be used to
determine if a specific value is earlier or later in a sequence.

description (index 46):

A textual value that provides a detailed description of the software

component. This value
[RFC5198]
described by

MAY
.

 be multiple paragraphs separated by CR LF characters as

edition (index 47):

A textual value indicating that the software component represents a

functional variation of the code base used to support multiple software components. For
example, this item can be used to differentiate enterprise, standard, or professional variants
of a software component.

entitlement-data-required (index 48):

A boolean value that can be used to determine if

accompanying proof of entitlement is needed when a software license reconciliation process
is performed.

entitlement-key (index 49):

A vendor-specific textual key that can be used to identify and

establish a relationship to an entitlement. Examples of an entitlement-key might include a
serial number, product key, or license key. For values that relate to a given software
component install (e.g., license key), a supplemental tag will typically contain this
information. In other cases, where a general-purpose key can be provided that applies to all
possible installs of the software component on different endpoints, a primary tag will
typically contain this information. Since CoSWID tags are not intended to contain confidential
information, tag authors are advised not to record unprotected, private software license keys
in this field.

generator (index 50):

The name (or tag-id) of the software component that created the CoSWID
tag. If the generating software component has a SWID or CoSWID tag, then the tag-id for the
generating software component

 be provided.

SHOULD

persistent-id (index 51):

A globally unique identifier used to identify a set of software

components that are related. Software components sharing the same persistent-id can be
different versions. This item can be used to relate software components, released at different
points in time or through different release channels, that may not be able to be related
through the use of the link item.

product (index 52):

A basic name for the software component that can be common across

multiple tagged software components (e.g., Apache HTTP daemon (HTTPD)).

product-family (index 53):

A textual value indicating the software components' overall product

family. This should be used when multiple related software components form a larger
capability that is installed on multiple different endpoints. For example, some software
families may consist of a server, a client, and shared service components that are part of a

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

larger capability. Email systems, enterprise applications, backup services, web conferencing,
and similar capabilities are examples of families. The use of this item is not intended to
represent groups of software that are bundled or installed together. The persistent-id or link
items

 be used to relate bundled software components.

SHOULD

revision (index 54):

A string value indicating an informal or colloquial release version of the

software. This value can provide a different version value as compared to the software-
version specified in the concise-swid-tag group. This is useful when one or more releases need
to have an informal version label that differs from the specific exact version value specified
by software-version. Examples can include SP1, RC1, Beta, etc.

summary (index 55):

A short description of the software component. This

MUST

 be a single

sentence suitable for display in a user interface.

unspsc-code (index 56):

An 8-digit United Nations Standard Products and Services Code

(UNSPSC) classification code for the software component as defined by the UNSPSC

[UNSPSC]

.

unspsc-version (index 57):

The UNSPSC version used to define the unspsc-code value.

$$software-meta-extension:

A CDDL socket that can be used to extend the software-meta-entry

group model. See Section 2.2.

2.9.  The Resource Collection Definition

2.9.1.  The hash-entry Array

CoSWID adds explicit support for the representation of hash entries using algorithms that are
registered in the IANA "Named Information Hash Algorithm Registry"
information]
This is the equivalent of the namespace qualified "hash" attribute in

. This array is used by both the hash (index 7) and thumbprint (index 34) values.

[IANA.named-

[SWID]
.

hash-entry = [
  hash-alg-id: int,
  hash-value: bytes,
]

MUST

The number used as a value for hash-alg-id is an integer-based hash algorithm identifier whose
value
 refer to an ID in the IANA "Named Information Hash Algorithm Registry"
[IANA.named-information]
built or later); other hash algorithms
integer value "0"
not allow an algorithm to be identified for this field.

 be used. If the hash-alg-id is not known, then the
, which do

 with a Status of "current" (at the time the generator software was

 be used. This allows for conversion from ISO SWID tags

MUST NOT

[SWID]

MUST

MUST

The hash-value
base64 encoded) generated from the representation of the resource using the hash algorithm
indicated by hash-alg-id.

 represent the raw hash value as a byte string (as opposed to, for example,

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

2.9.2.  The resource-collection Group

The resource-collection group provides a list of items used in both evidence (created by a
software discovery process) and payload (installed in an endpoint) content of a CoSWID tag
document to structure and differentiate the content of specific CoSWID tag types. Potential
content includes directories, files, processes, or resources.

The CDDL for the resource-collection group follows:

path-elements-group = ( ? directory => one-or-more<directory-entry>,
                        ? file => one-or-more<file-entry>,
                      )

resource-collection = (
  path-elements-group,
  ? process => one-or-more<process-entry>,
  ? resource => one-or-more<resource-entry>,
  * $$resource-collection-extension,
)

filesystem-item = (
  ? key => bool,
  ? location => text,
  fs-name => text,
  ? root => text,
)

file-entry = {
  filesystem-item,
  ? size => uint,
  ? file-version => text,
  ? hash => hash-entry,
  * $$file-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

directory-entry = {
  filesystem-item,
  ? path-elements => { path-elements-group },
  * $$directory-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

process-entry = {
  process-name => text,
  ? pid => integer,
  * $$process-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

resource-entry = {
  type => text,
  * $$resource-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

hash = 7
directory = 16
file = 17
process = 18
resource = 19
size = 20
file-version = 21
key = 22
location = 23
fs-name = 24
root = 25
path-elements = 26
process-name = 27
pid = 28
type = 29

The following list describes each member of the groups and maps illustrated above.

filesystem-item:

A list of common items used for representing the filesystem root, relative

location, name, and significance of a file or directory item.

global-attributes:

The global-attributes group as described in Section 2.5.

hash (index 7):

Value that provides a hash of a file. This item provides an integrity
measurement with respect to a specific file. See Section 2.9.1 for more details on the use of the
hash-entry data structure.

directory (index 16):

Item that allows child directory and file items to be defined within a

directory hierarchy for the software component.

file (index 17):

Item that allows details about a file to be provided for the software component.

process (index 18):

Item that allows details to be provided about the runtime behavior of the

software component, such as information that will appear in a process listing on an endpoint.

resource (index 19):

Item that can be used to provide details about an artifact or capability

expected to be found on an endpoint or evidence collected related to the software component.
This can be used to represent concepts not addressed directly by the directory, file, or process
items. Examples include registry keys, bound ports, etc. The equivalent construct in
 is
currently underspecified. As a result, this item might be further defined through extensions in
the future.

[SWID]

size (index 20):

The file's size in bytes.

file-version (index 21):

The file's version as reported by querying information on the file from
the operating system (if available). This item maps to '/SoftwareIdentity/(Payload|Evidence)/
File/@version' in

[SWID]

.

key (index 22):

A boolean value indicating if a file or directory is significant or required for the
software component to execute or function properly. These are files or directories that can be
used to affirmatively determine if the software component is installed on an endpoint.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

location (index 23):

The filesystem path where a file is expected to be located when installed or
 be either an absolute path, a path relative to the path value

copied. The location
included in the parent directory item (preferred), or a path relative to the location of the
CoSWID tag if no parent is defined. The location
 include a file's name, which is
provided by the fs-name item.

MUST NOT

MUST

fs-name (index 24):

with a file "name" in
Directory)/@name' in

The name of the directory or file without any path information. This aligns
. This item maps to '/SoftwareIdentity/(Payload|Evidence)/(File|
.

[SWID]
[SWID]

root (index 25):

A host-specific name for the root of the filesystem. The location item is

considered relative to this location if specified. If not provided, the value provided by the
location item is expected to be relative to its parent or the location of the CoSWID tag if no
parent is provided.

path-elements (index 26):

Group that allows a hierarchy of directory and file items to be

defined in payload or evidence items. This is a construction within the CDDL definition of
CoSWID to support shared syntax and does not appear in

[SWID]

.

process-name (index 27):

endpoint's process list. This aligns with a process "name" in
SoftwareIdentity/(Payload|Evidence)/Process/@name' in

[SWID]

.

The software component's process name as it will appear in an
. This item maps to '/

[SWID]

pid (index 28):

The process ID identified for a running instance of the software component in

the endpoint's process list. This is used as part of the evidence item.

type (index 29):

A human-readable string indicating the type of resource.

$$resource-collection-extension:

A CDDL socket that can be used to extend the resource-

collection group model. This can be used to add new specialized types of resources. See
Section 2.2.

$$file-extension:
Section 2.2.

A CDDL socket that can be used to extend the file-entry group model. See

$$directory-extension:

A CDDL socket that can be used to extend the directory-entry group

model. See Section 2.2.

$$process-extension:
See Section 2.2.

A CDDL socket that can be used to extend the process-entry group model.

$$resource-extension:

A CDDL socket that can be used to extend the resource-entry group

model. See Section 2.2.

2.9.3.  The payload-entry Map

The CDDL for the payload-entry map follows:

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

payload-entry = {
  resource-collection,
  * $$payload-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

The following list describes each child item of this group.

global-attributes:

The global-attributes group as described in Section 2.5.

resource-collection:

The resource-collection group as described in Section 2.9.2.

$$payload-extension:
See Section 2.2.

A CDDL socket that can be used to extend the payload-entry group model.

2.9.4.  The evidence-entry Map

The CDDL for the evidence-entry map follows:

evidence-entry = {
  resource-collection,
  ? date => integer-time,
  ? device-id => text,
  ? location => text,
  * $$evidence-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

date = 35
device-id = 36

The following list describes each child item of this group.

global-attributes:

The global-attributes group as described in Section 2.5.

resource-collection:

The resource-collection group as described in Section 2.9.2.

location (index 23):

The filesystem path of the location of the CoSWID tag generated as

evidence. This path is always an absolute file path (unlike the value of a location item found
within a filesystem-item as described in Section 2.9.2, which can be either a relative path or
an absolute path).

date (index 35):

The date and time the information was collected pertaining to the evidence

item in epoch-based date/time format as specified in

Section 3.4.2 of [RFC8949]

.

device-id (index 36):

The endpoint's string identifier from which the evidence was collected.

$$evidence-extension:

A CDDL socket that can be used to extend the evidence-entry group

model. See Section 2.2.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

2.10.  Full CDDL Specification

In order to create a valid CoSWID document, the structure of the corresponding CBOR message
MUST

 adhere to the following CDDL specification.

<CODE BEGINS> file "concise-swid-tag.cddl"

concise-swid-tag = {
  tag-id => text / bstr .size 16,
  tag-version => integer,
  ? corpus => bool,
  ? patch => bool,
  ? supplemental => bool,
  software-name => text,
  ? software-version => text,
  ? version-scheme => $version-scheme,
  ? media => text,
  ? software-meta => one-or-more<software-meta-entry>,
  entity => one-or-more<entity-entry>,
  ? link => one-or-more<link-entry>,
  ? payload-or-evidence,
  * $$coswid-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

payload-or-evidence //= ( payload => payload-entry )
payload-or-evidence //= ( evidence => evidence-entry )

any-uri = uri
label = text / int

$version-scheme /= multipartnumeric
$version-scheme /= multipartnumeric-suffix
$version-scheme /= alphanumeric
$version-scheme /= decimal
$version-scheme /= semver
$version-scheme /= int / text

any-attribute = (
  label => one-or-more<text> / one-or-more<int>
)

one-or-more<T> = T / [ 2* T ]

global-attributes = (
  ? lang => text,
  * any-attribute,
)

hash-entry = [
  hash-alg-id: int,
  hash-value: bytes,
]

entity-entry = {

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

  entity-name => text,
  ? reg-id => any-uri,
  role => one-or-more<$role>,
  ? thumbprint => hash-entry,
  * $$entity-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

$role /= tag-creator
$role /= software-creator
$role /= aggregator
$role /= distributor
$role /= licensor
$role /= maintainer
$role /= int / text

link-entry = {
  ? artifact => text,
  href => any-uri,
  ? media => text,
  ? ownership => $ownership,
  rel => $rel,
  ? media-type => text,
  ? use => $use,
  * $$link-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

$ownership /= shared
$ownership /= private
$ownership /= abandon
$ownership /= int / text

$rel /= ancestor
$rel /= component
$rel /= feature
$rel /= installationmedia
$rel /= packageinstaller
$rel /= parent
$rel /= patches
$rel /= requires
$rel /= see-also
$rel /= supersedes
$rel /= supplemental
$rel /= -256..65536 / text

$use /= optional
$use /= required
$use /= recommended
$use /= int / text

software-meta-entry = {
  ? activation-status => text,
  ? channel-type => text,
  ? colloquial-version => text,
  ? description => text,
  ? edition => text,
  ? entitlement-data-required => bool,

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

  ? entitlement-key => text,
  ? generator => text / bstr .size 16,
  ? persistent-id => text,
  ? product => text,
  ? product-family => text,
  ? revision => text,
  ? summary => text,
  ? unspsc-code => text,
  ? unspsc-version => text,
  * $$software-meta-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

path-elements-group = ( ? directory => one-or-more<directory-entry>,
                        ? file => one-or-more<file-entry>,
                      )

resource-collection = (
  path-elements-group,
  ? process => one-or-more<process-entry>,
  ? resource => one-or-more<resource-entry>,
  * $$resource-collection-extension,
)

file-entry = {
  filesystem-item,
  ? size => uint,
  ? file-version => text,
  ? hash => hash-entry,
  * $$file-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

directory-entry = {
  filesystem-item,
  ? path-elements => { path-elements-group },
  * $$directory-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

process-entry = {
  process-name => text,
  ? pid => integer,
  * $$process-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

resource-entry = {
  type => text,
  * $$resource-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

filesystem-item = (
  ? key => bool,
  ? location => text,
  fs-name => text,
  ? root => text,

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

CoSWID

June 2023

RFC 9393

)

payload-entry = {
  resource-collection,
  * $$payload-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

evidence-entry = {
  resource-collection,
  ? date => integer-time,
  ? device-id => text,
  ? location => text,
  * $$evidence-extension,
  global-attributes,
}

integer-time = #6.1(int)

; "global map member" integer indices
tag-id = 0
software-name = 1
entity = 2
evidence = 3
link = 4
software-meta = 5
payload = 6
hash = 7
corpus = 8
patch = 9
media = 10
supplemental = 11
tag-version = 12
software-version = 13
version-scheme = 14
lang = 15
directory = 16
file = 17
process = 18
resource = 19
size = 20
file-version = 21
key = 22
location = 23
fs-name = 24
root = 25
path-elements = 26
process-name = 27
pid = 28
type = 29
entity-name = 31
reg-id = 32
role = 33
thumbprint = 34
date = 35
device-id = 36
artifact = 37
href = 38

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

ownership = 39
rel = 40
media-type = 41
use = 42
activation-status = 43
channel-type = 44
colloquial-version = 45
description = 46
edition = 47
entitlement-data-required = 48
entitlement-key = 49
generator = 50
persistent-id = 51
product = 52
product-family = 53
revision = 54
summary = 55
unspsc-code = 56
unspsc-version = 57

; "version-scheme" integer indices
multipartnumeric = 1
multipartnumeric-suffix = 2
alphanumeric = 3
decimal = 4
semver = 16384

; "role" integer indices
tag-creator=1
software-creator=2
aggregator=3
distributor=4
licensor=5
maintainer=6

; "ownership" integer indices
abandon=1
private=2
shared=3

; "rel" integer indices
ancestor=1
component=2
feature=3
installationmedia=4
packageinstaller=5
parent=6
patches=7
requires=8
see-also=9
supersedes=10
; supplemental=11 ; already defined

; "use" integer indices
optional=1
required=2
recommended=3

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

<CODE ENDS>

3.  Determining the Type of CoSWID

The operational model for SWID and CoSWID tags was introduced in Section 1.1, which described
four different CoSWID tag types. The following additional rules apply to the use of CoSWID tags
to ensure that created tags properly identify the tag type.

The first matching rule

MUST

 determine the type of the CoSWID tag.

Primary Tag:

MUST
supplemental items are "false".

A CoSWID tag

 be considered a primary tag if the corpus, patch, and

Supplemental Tag:

A CoSWID tag

MUST

 be considered a supplemental tag if the supplemental

item is set to "true".

Corpus Tag:

Patch Tag:

A CoSWID tag

MUST

 be considered a corpus tag if the corpus item is "true".

A CoSWID tag

MUST

 be considered a patch tag if the patch item is "true".

Note: It is possible for some or all of the corpus, patch, and supplemental items to
simultaneously have values set as "true". The rules above provide a means to
determine the tag's type in such a case. For example, a SWID or CoSWID tag for a
patch installer might have both corpus and patch items set to "true". In such a case,
the tag is a "corpus tag". The tag installed by this installer would have only the patch
item set to "true", making the installed tag type a "patch tag".

4.  CoSWID Indexed Label Values

This section defines multiple kinds of indexed label values that are maintained in several IANA
registries. See Section 6 for details. These values are represented as positive integers. In each
registry, the value 0 is marked as Reserved.

4.1.  Version Scheme

The following table contains a set of values for use in the concise-swid-tag group's version-
scheme item. The "Index" value indicates the value to use as the version-scheme item's value.
Strings in the "Version Scheme Name" column provide human-readable text for the value and
match the version schemes defined in the ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015 specification
"Definition" column describes the syntax of allowed values for each entry.

[SWID]

. The

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Index

Version Scheme Name

Definition

1

2

3

4

multipartnumeric

Numbers separated by dots, where the numbers are
interpreted as decimal integers (e.g., 1.2.3, 1.2.3.4.5.6.7,
1.4.5, 1.21)

multipartnumeric+suffix Numbers separated by dots, where the numbers are

interpreted as decimal integers with an additional
textual suffix (e.g., 1.2.3a)

alphanumeric

Strictly a string, no interpretation as number

decimal

A single decimal floating-point number

16384

semver

Table 3: Version Scheme Values

A semantic version as defined by
[SEMVER]

 specification for more information

[SWID]

. Also see the

"multipartnumeric" and the numbers part of "multipartnumeric+suffix" are interpreted as a
sequence of numbers and are sorted in lexicographical order by these numbers (i.e., not by the
digits in the numbers) and then the textual suffix (for "multipartnumeric+suffix").
"alphanumeric" strings are sorted lexicographically as character strings. "decimal" version
numbers are interpreted as single floating-point numbers (e.g., 1.25 is less than 1.3).

The values above are registered in the IANA "Software ID Version Scheme Values" registry,
defined in Section 6.2.4. Additional entries will likely be registered over time in this registry.

SHOULD

 include the optional version-scheme item to avoid semantic ambiguity. If the

A CoSWID producer that is aware of the version scheme that has been used to select the version
value
CoSWID producer does not have this information, it
 omit the version-scheme item. The
following heuristics can be used by a CoSWID consumer, based on the version schemes' partially
overlapping value spaces:

SHOULD

•

"decimal" and "multipartnumeric" partially overlap in their value space when a value
matches a decimal number. When a corresponding software-version item's value falls within
this overlapping value space, it is expected that the "decimal" version scheme is used.

•

"multipartnumeric" and "semver" partially overlap in their value space when a
"multipartnumeric" value matches the semantic versioning syntax. When a corresponding
software-version item's value falls within this overlapping value space, it is expected that the
"semver" version scheme is used.

•

"alphanumeric" and other version schemes might overlap in their value space. When a
corresponding software-version item's value falls within this overlapping value space, it is
expected that the other version scheme is used and "alphanumeric" is not used.

Note that these heuristics are imperfect and can guess wrong, which is the reason the version-
scheme item

 be included by the producer.

SHOULD

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

4.2.  Entity Role Values

The following table indicates the index value to use for the entity-entry group's role item (see
Section 2.6). These values match the entity roles defined in the ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015 specification
[SWID]
Name" column provide human-readable text for the value. The "Definition" column describes the
semantic meaning of each entry.

. The "Index" value indicates the value to use as the role item's value. Items in the "Role

Index

Role Name

Definition

1

2

3

4

5

6

tagCreator

The person or organization that created the containing SWID or
CoSWID tag.

softwareCreator

The person or organization entity that created the software
component.

aggregator

distributor

licensor

maintainer

[SWID]

From
, "An organization or system that encapsulates
software from their own and/or other organizations into a
different distribution process (as in the case of virtualization), or
as a completed system to accomplish a specific task (as in the
case of a value added reseller)."

[SWID]

, "An entity that furthers the marketing, selling and/

From
or distribution of software from the original place of
manufacture to the ultimate user without modifying the
software, its packaging or its labelling."

[SAM]

, as a "software licensor", a "person or organization

From
who owns or holds the rights to issue a software license for a
specific software [component]."

The person or organization that is responsible for coordinating
and making updates to the source code for the software
component. This
different person or organization than the original
"softwareCreator".

 be used when the "maintainer" is a

SHOULD

Table 4: Entity Role Values

The values above are registered in the IANA "Software ID Entity Role Values" registry, defined in
Section 6.2.5. Additional values will likely be registered over time.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

4.3.  Link Ownership Values

The following table indicates the index value to use for the link-entry group's ownership item
(see Section 2.7). These values match the link ownership values defined in the ISO/IEC
19770-2:2015 specification
. The "Index" value indicates the value to use as the link-entry
group ownership item's value. Items in the "Ownership Type" column provide human-readable
text for the value. The "Definition" column describes the semantic meaning of each entry.

[SWID]

Index Ownership

Definition

Type

abandon

private

shared

1

2

3

If the software component referenced by the CoSWID tag is
uninstalled, then the referenced software
uninstalled.

SHOULD NOT

 be

If the software component referenced by the CoSWID tag is
uninstalled, then the referenced software
well.

SHOULD

 be uninstalled as

If the software component referenced by the CoSWID tag is
uninstalled, then the referenced software
no other components are sharing the software.

SHOULD

 be uninstalled if

Table 5: Link Ownership Values

The values above are registered in the IANA "Software ID Link Ownership Values" registry,
defined in Section 6.2.6. Additional values will likely be registered over time.

4.4.  Link Rel Values

The following table indicates the index value to use for the link-entry group's rel item (see
Section 2.7). These values match the link rel values defined in the ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015
specification
ownership item's value. Items in the "Relationship Type" column provide human-readable text
for the value. The "Definition" column describes the semantic meaning of each entry.

. The "Index" value indicates the value to use as the link-entry group

[SWID]

Index

Relationship
Type

Definition

1

2

ancestor

component

The link references a software tag for a previous release of this
software. This can be useful to define an upgrade path.

The link references a software tag for a separate component of
this software.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Index

Relationship
Type

Definition

feature

The link references a configurable feature of this software that
can be enabled or disabled without changing the installed files.

installationmedia

The link references the installation package that can be used to
install this software.

packageinstaller

The link references the installation software needed to install
this software.

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

parent

patches

requires

see-also

10

supersedes

The link references a software tag that is the parent of the
referencing tag. This relationship can be used when multiple
software components are part of a software bundle, where the
"parent" is the software tag for the bundle and each child is a
"component". In such a case, each child component can provide
a "parent" link relationship to the bundle's software tag, and
the bundle can provide a "component" link relationship to each
child software component.

The link references a software tag that the referencing
software patches. Typically only used for patch tags (see
Section 1.1).

The link references a prerequisite for installing this software. A
patch tag (see Section 1.1) can use this to represent base
software or another patch that needs to be installed first.

The link references other software that may be of interest that
relates to this software.

The link references other software (e.g., an older software
version) that this software replaces. A patch tag (see Section
1.1) can use this to represent another patch that this patch
incorporates or replaces.

11

supplemental

The link references a software tag that the referencing tag
supplements. Used on supplemental tags (see Section 1.1).

Table 6: Link Relationship Values

The values above are registered in the IANA "Software ID Link Relationship Values" registry,
defined in Section 6.2.7. Additional values will likely be registered over time.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

4.5.  Link Use Values

The following table indicates the index value to use for the link-entry group's use item (see
Section 2.7). These values match the link use values defined in the ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015
specification
. The "Index" value indicates the value to use as the link-entry group use
item's value. Items in the "Use Type" column provide human-readable text for the value. The
"Definition" column describes the semantic meaning of each entry.

[SWID]

Index

Use Type

Definition

1

2

3

optional

required

recommended

Table 7: Link Use Values

[SWID]

From
installed only when specified."

, "Not absolutely required; the [Link]'d software is

[SWID]

From
operation software installation."

, "The [Link]'d software is absolutely required for an

[SWID]

From
installed unless specified otherwise."

, "Not absolutely required; the [Link]'d software is

The values above are registered in the IANA "Software ID Link Use Values" registry, defined in
Section 6.2.8. Additional values will likely be registered over time.

5.  "swid" and "swidpath" Expressions

This specification defines the following scheme names for use in CoSWID and to provide
[SWID]
interoperability with scheme names used in
scheme names are to be interpreted within a local (rather than a global) context, neither of these
are technically URI scheme names as defined in
"swidpath" scheme names are registered with IANA as provisional, rather than permanent,
scheme names. However, registering these scheme names as provisional ensures that the scheme
names are reserved and that they are properly defined going forward.

. Because both the "swid" and "swidpath"

. For this reason, the "swid" and

[RFC3986]

The swid and swidpath expressions conform to all rules for URI syntax. All uses of these
expressions encountered within a CoSWID are to be interpreted as described in this section.

5.1.  "swid" Expressions

Expressions specifying the "swid" scheme are used to reference a software tag by its tag-id. A tag-
id referenced in this way can be used to identify the tag resource in the context of where it is
referenced from. For example, when a tag is installed on a given device, that tag can reference
related tags on the same device using expressions with this scheme.

For expressions that use the "swid" scheme, the scheme-specific part
referenced software tag's tag-id. This tag-id
[RFC3986]
.

MUST

 be URI encoded according to

Section 2.1 of

MUST

 consist of a

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

The following expression is a valid example:

swid:2df9de35-0aff-4a86-ace6-f7dddd1ade4c

5.2.  "swidpath" Expressions

[W3C.REC-
 references the data that must be found in a given software tag out of the base

Expressions specifying the "swidpath" scheme are used to filter tags out of a base collection, so
that matching tags are included in the identified tag collection. The XPath expression
xpath20-20101214]
collection for that tag to be considered a matching tag. Tags to be evaluated (the base collection)
include all tags in the context of where the "swidpath" expression is referenced from. For
example, when a tag is installed on a given device, that tag can reference related tags on the
same device using an expression with this scheme.

For URIs that use the "swidpath" scheme, the following requirements apply:

•

The scheme-specific part
xpath20-20101214]
2.1 of [RFC3986]

.

MUST

 be an XPath expression as defined by

[W3C.REC-

. The included XPath expression will be URI encoded according to

Section

•

This XPath is evaluated over SWID tags, or CoSWID tags transformed into SWID tags, found
on a system. A given tag
an effective boolean value of "true" according to

 be considered a match if the XPath evaluation result value has
, Section 2.4.3.

[W3C.REC-xpath20-20101214]

MUST

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has a number of IANA considerations, as described in the following subsections.
In summary, six new registries are established by this document, with initial entries provided for
each registry. New values for five other registries are also defined.

6.1.  CoSWID Items Registry

This document defines a new registry titled "CoSWID Items". This registry uses integer values as
index values in CBOR maps. Future registrations for this registry are to be made based on
[BCP26]

 as follows:

Range

0-32767

Registration Procedures

Standards Action with Expert Review

32768-4294967295

Specification Required

Table 8: CoSWID Items Registration Procedures

All negative values are reserved for private use.

Initial registrations for the "CoSWID Items" registry are provided below. Assignments consist of
an integer index value, the item name, and a reference to the defining specification.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Index

Item Name

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

tag-id

software-name

entity

evidence

link

software-meta

payload

hash

corpus

patch

media

supplemental

tag-version

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

software-version

RFC 9393

version-scheme

lang

directory

file

process

resource

size

file-version

key

location

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Index

Item Name

Reference

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

fs-name

root

path-elements

process-name

pid

type

Unassigned

entity-name

reg-id

role

thumbprint

date

device-id

artifact

href

ownership

rel

media-type

use

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

activation-status

RFC 9393

channel-type

RFC 9393

colloquial-version

RFC 9393

description

edition

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Index

Item Name

Reference

48

49

50

51

52

53

54

55

56

57

entitlement-data-required

RFC 9393

entitlement-key

generator

persistent-id

product

product-family

revision

summary

unspsc-code

unspsc-version

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

RFC 9393

58-4294967295

Unassigned

Table 9: CoSWID Items Initial Registrations

6.2.  Registries for Software ID Values

The following IANA registries provide a mechanism for new values to be added over time to
common enumerations used by SWID and CoSWID. While neither the CoSWID specification nor
the SWID specification is subordinate to the other and will evolve as their respective standards
group chooses, there is value in supporting alignment between the two standards. Shared use of
common code points, as spelled out in these registries, will facilitate this alignment -- hence the
intent for shared use of these registries and the decision to use "swidsoftware-id" (rather than
"swid" or "coswid") in registry names.

6.2.1.  Registration Procedures

The following registries allow for the registration of index values and names. New registrations
will be permitted through either a Standards Action with Expert Review policy or a Specification
Required policy

[BCP26]
.

The following registries also reserve the integer-based index values in the range of -1 to -256 for
private use as defined by
. This allows values -1 to -24 to be expressed as a
single uint8_t in CBOR and values -25 to -256 to be expressed using an additional uint8_t in CBOR.

Section 4.1 of [BCP26]

6.2.2.  Private Use of Index and Name Values

The integer-based index values in the private use range (-1 to -256) are intended for testing
purposes and closed environments; values in other ranges

 be assigned for testing.

SHOULD NOT

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

For names that correspond to private use index values, an Internationalized Domain Name
prefix

 be used to prevent name conflicts using the form

MUST

domainprefix/name

where both "domainprefix" and "name"
label or a U-label as defined by
namespace defined by the "domainprefix". ("LDH" is an abbreviation for "letters, digits, hyphen".)
Using a prefix in this way allows for a name to be used in the private use range. This is consistent
with the guidance in

 each be either a Non-Reserved LDH (NR-LDH)

 be a unique name within the

, and "name" also

[RFC5890]

[BCP178]
.

MUST

MUST

6.2.3.  Expert Review Criteria

Designated experts
criteria:

MUST

 ensure that new registration requests meet the following additional

•

The requesting specification
definition
entries.

MUST

MUST

 provide a clear semantic definition for the new entry. This

 clearly differentiate the requested entry from other previously registered

•

The requesting specification
constraints that exist between (1) the use of the entry's index value or name and (2) other
values defined within the SWID/CoSWID model.

 describe the intended use of the entry, including any co-

MUST

•

Index values and names outside the private use space
registration. This is considered "squatting" and
 be avoided. Designated experts
ensure that reviewed specifications register all appropriate index values and names.

 be used without

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

•

Standards Track documents
under the Specification Required policy. This can occur when a Standards Track document
provides further guidance on the use of index values and names that are in common use but
were not registered with IANA. This situation

 include entries registered in the range reserved for entries

 be avoided.

SHOULD

MAY

•

All registered names
[W3C.REC-xmlschema-2-20041028]
compatible with the SWID format

MUST

 be valid according to the XML Schema NMTOKEN data type (see

, Section 3.3.4). This ensures that registered names are
[SWID]

 where they are used.

•

Registration of vanity names
provide a description of how a requested name will allow for use by multiple stakeholders.

 be discouraged. The requesting specification

SHOULD

MUST

6.2.4.  Software ID Version Scheme Values Registry

This document establishes a new registry titled "Software ID Version Scheme Values". This
registry provides index values for use as version-scheme item values in this document and
Version Scheme Names for use in

[SWID]
.

This registry uses the registration procedures defined in Section 6.2.1, with the following
associated ranges:

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Range

Registration Procedures

0-16383

Standards Action with Expert Review

16384-65535

Specification Required

Table 10: Software ID Version Scheme Registration
Procedures

Assignments
to the defining specification.

MUST

 consist of an integer index value, the Version Scheme Name, and a reference

Initial registrations for the "Software ID Version Scheme Values" registry are provided below and
are derived from the textual Version Scheme Names defined in

[SWID]
.

Index

Version Scheme Name

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

Reserved

multipartnumeric

RFC 9393, Section 4.1

multipartnumeric+suffix

RFC 9393, Section 4.1

alphanumeric

RFC 9393, Section 4.1

decimal

RFC 9393, Section 4.1

5-16383

Unassigned

16384

semver

RFC 9393, Section 4.1

16385-65535

Unassigned

Table 11: Software ID Version Scheme Initial Registrations

Registrations

MUST

 conform to the expert review criteria defined in Section 6.2.3.

Designated experts
corresponding software-version item that is unique from other previously registered entries.

 also ensure that newly requested entries define a value space for the

MUST

Note: The initial registrations violate this requirement but are included for
backwards compatibility with

. See also Section 4.1.

[SWID]

6.2.5.  Software ID Entity Role Values Registry

This document establishes a new registry titled "Software ID Entity Role Values". This registry
provides index values for use as entity-entry role item values in this document and entity role
names for use in

[SWID]
.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

This registry uses the registration procedures defined in Section 6.2.1, with the following
associated ranges:

Range

Registration Procedures

0-127

Standards Action with Expert Review

128-255

Specification Required

Table 12: Software ID Entity Role Registration
Procedures

Assignments consist of an integer index value, a role name, and a reference to the defining
specification.

Initial registrations for the "Software ID Entity Role Values" registry are provided below and are
derived from the textual entity role names defined in

[SWID]
.

Index

Role Name

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

Reserved

tagCreator

RFC 9393, Section 4.2

softwareCreator

RFC 9393, Section 4.2

aggregator

RFC 9393, Section 4.2

distributor

RFC 9393, Section 4.2

licensor

RFC 9393, Section 4.2

maintainer

RFC 9393, Section 4.2

7-255

Unassigned

Table 13: Software ID Entity Role Initial Registrations

Registrations

MUST

 conform to the expert review criteria defined in Section 6.2.3.

6.2.6.  Software ID Link Ownership Values Registry

This document establishes a new registry titled "Software ID Link Ownership Values". This
registry provides index values for use as link-entry ownership item values in this document and
link ownership names for use in

[SWID]
.

This registry uses the registration procedures defined in Section 6.2.1, with the following
associated ranges:

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Range

Registration Procedures

0-127

Standards Action with Expert Review

128-255

Specification Required

Table 14: Software ID Link Ownership Registration
Procedures

Assignments consist of an integer index value, an ownership type name, and a reference to the
defining specification.

Initial registrations for the "Software ID Link Ownership Values" registry are provided below and
are derived from the textual entity role names defined in

[SWID]
.

Index Ownership Type Name

Reference

0

1

2

3

Reserved

abandon

private

shared

4-255

Unassigned

RFC 9393, Section 4.3

RFC 9393, Section 4.3

RFC 9393, Section 4.3

Table 15: Software ID Link Ownership Initial Registrations

Registrations

MUST

 conform to the expert review criteria defined in Section 6.2.3.

6.2.7.  Software ID Link Relationship Values Registry

This document establishes a new registry titled "Software ID Link Relationship Values". This
registry provides index values for use as link-entry rel item values in this document and link
ownership names for use in

[SWID]
.

This registry uses the registration procedures defined in Section 6.2.1, with the following
associated ranges:

Range

Registration Procedures

0-32767

Standards Action with Expert Review

32768-65535

Specification Required

Table 16: Software ID Link Relationship Registration
Procedures

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Assignments consist of an integer index value, the relationship type name, and a reference to the
defining specification.

Initial registrations for the "Software ID Link Relationship Values" registry are provided below
and are derived from the link relationship values defined in

[SWID]
.

Index

Relationship Type Name

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

Reserved

ancestor

RFC 9393, Section 4.4

component

RFC 9393, Section 4.4

feature

RFC 9393, Section 4.4

installationmedia

RFC 9393, Section 4.4

packageinstaller

RFC 9393, Section 4.4

parent

patches

requires

see-also

RFC 9393, Section 4.4

RFC 9393, Section 4.4

RFC 9393, Section 4.4

RFC 9393, Section 4.4

supersedes

RFC 9393, Section 4.4

supplemental

RFC 9393, Section 4.4

12-65535

Unassigned

Table 17: Software ID Link Relationship Initial Registrations

Registrations

MUST

 conform to the expert review criteria defined in Section 6.2.3.

MUST

Designated experts
 also ensure that a newly requested entry documents the URI schemes
allowed to be used in an href associated with the link relationship and the expected resolution
behavior of these URI schemes. This will help to ensure that applications processing software
tags are able to interoperate when resolving resources referenced by a link of a given type.

6.2.8.  Software ID Link Use Values Registry

This document establishes a new registry titled "Software ID Link Use Values". This registry
provides index values for use as link-entry use item values in this document and link use names
for use in

[SWID]
.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

This registry uses the registration procedures defined in Section 6.2.1, with the following
associated ranges:

Range

Registration Procedures

0-127

Standards Action with Expert Review

128-255

Specification Required

Table 18: Software ID Link Use Registration
Procedures

Assignments consist of an integer index value, the link use type name, and a reference to the
defining specification.

Initial registrations for the "Software ID Link Use Values" registry are provided below and are
derived from the link relationship values defined in

[SWID]
.

Index

Link Use Type Name

Reference

0

1

2

3

Reserved

optional

required

RFC 9393, Section 4.5

RFC 9393, Section 4.5

recommended

RFC 9393, Section 4.5

4-255

Unassigned

Table 19: Software ID Link Use Initial Registrations

Registrations

MUST

 conform to the expert review criteria defined in Section 6.2.3.

6.3.  swid+cbor Media Type Registration

IANA has added the following to the "Media Types" registry

[IANA.media-types]
.

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

swid+cbor

Required parameters:

none

Optional parameters:

none

Encoding considerations:

Binary (encoded as CBOR

[RFC8949]

). See RFC 9393 for details.

Security considerations:

See Section 9 of RFC 9393.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Interoperability considerations:

Applications

MAY

 ignore any key value pairs that they do not

understand. This allows backwards-compatible extensions to this specification.

Published specification:

RFC 9393

Applications that use this media type:

The type is used by software asset management systems

and vulnerability assessment systems and is used in applications that use remote integrity
verification.

Fragment Identifier Considerations:

The syntax and semantics of fragment identifiers specified

for "application/swid+cbor" are as specified for "application/cbor". (At publication of RFC
9393, there is no fragment identification syntax defined for "application/cbor".)

Additional information:
Magic number(s):

If tagged, the first five bytes in hex: da 53 57 49 44 (see Section 8 of RFC

9393).

coswid
File extension(s):
Macintosh file type code(s):
Macintosh Universal Type Identifier code:

none

org.ietf.coswid conforms to public.data.

Person & email address to contact for further information:

IESG <iesg@ietf.org>

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

none

Author:

Henk Birkholz <henk.birkholz@sit.fraunhofer.de>

Change controller:

IESG

6.4.  CoAP Content-Format Registration

IANA has assigned a CoAP Content-Format ID for the CoSWID media type in the "CoAP Content-
Formats" subregistry, from the "IETF Review or IESG Approval" space (256..999), within the
[RFC7252] [IANA.core-parameters]
:
"CoRE Parameters" registry

Content Type

Content Coding

ID

Reference

application/swid+cbor

-

258

RFC 9393

Table 20: CoAP Content-Format IDs

6.5.  CBOR Tag Registration

IANA has allocated a tag in the "CBOR Tags" registry

[IANA.cbor-tags]
:

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Tag

Data Item Semantics

Reference

1398229316 map

Concise Software Identifier (CoSWID)

RFC 9393

Table 21: CoSWID CBOR Tag

6.6.  URI Scheme Registrations

 describes the use of the "swid" and "swidpath"
The ISO 19770-2:2015 SWID specification
URI schemes, which are currently in use in implementations. This document continues this use
for CoSWID. The following subsections provide registrations for these schemes to ensure that a
registration for these schemes exists that is suitable for use in the SWID and CoSWID
specifications.

[SWID]

URI schemes are registered within the "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) Schemes" registry
maintained at

[IANA.uri-schemes]
.

6.6.1.  URI Scheme "swid"

IANA has registered the URI scheme "swid". This registration complies with

[RFC7595]
.

Scheme name:

swid

Status:

Provisional

Applications/protocols that use this scheme name:

Applications that require Software IDs

(SWIDs) or Concise Software IDs (CoSWIDs); see Section 5.1 of RFC 9393.

Contact:

IETF Chair <chair@ietf.org>

Change controller:

IESG <iesg@ietf.org>

Reference:

Section 5.1 of RFC 9393

Note: This scheme has been documented by an IETF working group and is
mentioned in an IETF Standard specification. However, as it describes a locally
scoped, limited-purpose form of identification, it does not fully meet the
requirements for permanent registration.

As long as this specification (or any successors that describe this scheme) is a
current IETF specification, this scheme should be considered to be "in use" and not
considered for removal from the registry.

6.6.2.  URI Scheme "swidpath"

IANA has registered the URI scheme "swidpath". This registration complies with

[RFC7595]
.

Scheme name:

swidpath

Status:

Provisional

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Applications/protocols that use this scheme name:

Applications that require Software IDs

(SWIDs) or Concise Software IDs (CoSWIDs); see Section 5.2 of RFC 9393.

Contact:

IETF Chair <chair@ietf.org>

Change controller:

IESG <iesg@ietf.org>

Reference:

Section 5.2 of RFC 9393

Note: This scheme has been documented by an IETF working group and is
mentioned in an IETF Standard specification. However, as it describes a locally
scoped, limited-purpose form of identification, it does not fully meet the
requirements for permanent registration.

As long as this specification (or any successors that describe this scheme) is a
current IETF specification, this scheme should be considered to be "in use" and not
considered for removal from the registry.

6.7.  CoSWID Model for Use in SWIMA Registration

"Software Inventory Message and Attributes (SWIMA) for PA-TNC"
standardized method for collecting an endpoint device's software inventory. A CoSWID can
provide evidence of software installation that can then be used and exchanged with SWIMA. This
registration adds a new entry to the IANA "Software Data Model Types" registry defined by
[RFC8412]

 to support CoSWID use in SWIMA as follows:

[IANA.pa-tnc-parameters]

[RFC8412]

 defines a

 and

Pen:

0

Integer:

2

Name:

Concise Software Identifier (CoSWID)

Reference:

RFC 9393

Deriving Software Identifiers:

A Software Identifier generated from a CoSWID tag is expressed

as a concatenation of the form used in

[RFC5234]

 as follows --

TAG_CREATOR_REGID "_" "_" UNIQUE_ID

where TAG_CREATOR_REGID is the reg-id item value of the tag's entity item having the role
value of 1 (corresponding to "tag-creator"), and the UNIQUE_ID is the same tag's tag-id item. If
the tag-id item's value is expressed as a 16-byte binary string, the UNIQUE_ID
represented using the UUID string representation defined in
"urn:uuid:" prefix.

 be
, including the

[RFC4122]

MUST

The TAG_CREATOR_REGID and the UNIQUE_ID are connected with a double underscore (_),
without any other connecting character or whitespace.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

7.  Signed CoSWID Tags

SWID tags, as defined in the ISO-19770-2:2015 XML Schema, can include cryptographic signatures
to protect the integrity of the SWID tag. In general, tags are signed by the tag creator (typically,
although not exclusively, the vendor of the software component that the SWID tag identifies).
Cryptographic signatures can make any modification of the tag detectable, which is especially
important if the integrity of the tag is important, such as when the tag is providing RIMs for files.
The ISO-19770-2:2015 XML Schema uses XML Digital Signatures (XMLDSIG) to support
cryptographic signatures.

[RFC9052]

. A CoSWID tag

Signing CoSWID tags follows the procedures defined in CBOR Object Signing and Encryption
(COSE)
COSE_Sign1 or COSE_Sign. In the first case, a Single Signer Data Object (COSE_Sign1) contains a
single signature and
a restrictive subset of COSE header parameters that
case.

 be signed by the tag creator. The following CDDL specification defines
 be used in the protected header in this

 be wrapped in a COSE Signature structure, either

MUST

MUST

MUST

<CODE BEGINS> file "sign1.cddl"

COSE_Sign1-coswid<payload> = [
    protected: bstr .cbor protected-signed-coswid-header,
    unprotected: unprotected-signed-coswid-header,
    payload: bstr .cbor payload,
    signature: bstr,
]

cose-label = int / tstr
cose-values = any

protected-signed-coswid-header = {
    1 => int,                      ; algorithm identifier
    3 => "application/swid+cbor",
    * cose-label => cose-values,
}

unprotected-signed-coswid-header = {
    * cose-label => cose-values,
}

<CODE ENDS>

The COSE_Sign structure allows for more than one signature, one of which
tag creator, to be applied to a CoSWID tag and
are domain specific and require well-specified application guidance.

MAY

 be used. The corresponding usage scenarios

MUST

 be issued by the

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

<CODE BEGINS> file "sign.cddl"

COSE_Sign-coswid<payload> = [
    protected: bstr .cbor protected-signed-coswid-header1,
    unprotected: unprotected-signed-coswid-header,
    payload: bstr .cbor payload,
    signature: [ * COSE_Signature ],
]

protected-signed-coswid-header1 = {
    3 => "application/swid+cbor",
    * cose-label => cose-values,
}

protected-signature-coswid-header = {
    1 => int,                      ; algorithm identifier
    * cose-label => cose-values,
}

unprotected-signed-coswid-header = {
    * cose-label => cose-values,
}

COSE_Signature =  [
    protected: bstr .cbor protected-signature-coswid-header,
    unprotected: unprotected-signed-coswid-header,
    signature: bstr
]

<CODE ENDS>

Additionally, the COSE header countersignature
header map of the COSE envelope of a CoSWID
enables second parties to provide a signature on a signature allowing for proof that a signature
existed at a given time (i.e., a timestamp).

 be used as an attribute in the unprotected
. The application of countersigning

MAY
[RFC9338]

MUST

A CoSWID
 be signed, using the above mechanism, to protect the integrity of the CoSWID
tag. See Section 9 ("Security Considerations") for more information on why a signed CoSWID is
valuable in most cases.

8.  CBOR-Tagged CoSWID Tags

This specification allows for tagged and untagged CBOR data items that are CoSWID tags.
Consequently, the CBOR tag defined by this document (Table 21) for CoSWID tags
SHOULD
used in conjunction with CBOR data items that are CoSWID tags. Other CBOR tags
used with a CBOR data item that is a CoSWID tag. If tagged, both signed and unsigned CoSWID
tags
appended before the COSE envelope, whether it is a COSE_Untagged_Message or a
COSE_Tagged_Message. If an unsigned CoSWID is tagged, a CoSWID CBOR tag
before the CBOR data item that is the CoSWID tag.

 use the CoSWID CBOR tag. If a signed CoSWID is tagged, a CoSWID CBOR tag

 be
MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be

 be

 be appended

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

<CODE BEGINS> file "tags.cddl"

coswid = unsigned-coswid / signed-coswid
unsigned-coswid = concise-swid-tag / tagged-coswid<concise-swid-tag>
signed-coswid1 = signed-coswid-for<unsigned-coswid>
signed-coswid = signed-coswid1 / tagged-coswid<signed-coswid1>

tagged-coswid<T> = #6.1398229316(T)

signed-coswid-for<payload> = #6.18(COSE_Sign1-coswid<payload>)
    / #6.98(COSE_Sign-coswid<payload>)

<CODE ENDS>

This specification allows for a CBOR-tagged CoSWID tag to reside in a COSE envelope that is also
tagged with a CoSWID CBOR tag. In cases where a tag creator is not a signer (e.g., hand-offs
between entities in a trusted portion of a supply chain), retaining CBOR tags attached to unsigned
CoSWID tags can be of great use. Nevertheless, redundant use of tags
possible.

 be avoided when

SHOULD

9.  Security Considerations

The following security considerations for the use of CoSWID tags focus on:

•

ensuring the integrity and authenticity of a CoSWID tag

•

the application of CoSWID tags to address security challenges related to unmanaged or
unpatched software

•

reducing the potential for unintended disclosure of a device's software load

A tag is considered "authoritative" if the CoSWID tag was created by the software provider. An
authoritative CoSWID tag contains information about a software component provided by the
supplier of the software component, who is expected to be an expert in their own software. Thus,
authoritative CoSWID tags can represent authoritative information about the software
component. The degree to which this information can be trusted depends on the tag's chain of
custody and the ability to verify a signature provided by the supplier if present in the CoSWID
tag. The provisioning and validation of CoSWID tags are handled by local policy and are outside
the scope of this document.

A signed CoSWID tag (see Section 7) whose signature has been validated can be relied upon to be
unchanged since the time at which it was signed. By contrast, the data contained in unsigned tags
can be altered by any user or process with write access to the tag. To support signature
validation, there is a need to associate the right key with the software provider or party
originating the signature in a secure way. This operation is application specific and needs to be
addressed by the application or a user of the application; a specific approach for this topic is out
of scope for this document.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

When an authoritative tag is signed, the originator of the signature can be verified. A
trustworthy association between the signature and the originator of the signature can be
established via trust anchors. A certification path between a trust anchor and a certificate,
including a public key enabling the validation of a tag signature, can realize the assessment of
trustworthiness of an authoritative tag. Verifying that the software provider is the signer is a
different matter. This requires verifying that the party that signed the tag is the same party given
in the software-creator role of the tag's entity item. No mechanism is defined in this document to
make this association; therefore, this association will need to be handled by local policy. As
always, the validity of a signature does not imply the veracity of the signed statements: anyone
can sign assertions such that the software is from a specific software-creator or that a specific
persistent-id applies; policy needs to be applied to evaluate these statements and to determine
their suitability for a specific use.

Loss of control of signing credentials used to sign CoSWID tags would cast doubt on the
authenticity and integrity of any CoSWID tags signed using the compromised keys. In such cases,
the legitimate tag signer (namely, the software provider for an authoritative CoSWID tag) can
employ uncompromised signing credentials to create a new signature on the original tag. The
tag's version number would not be incremented, since the tag itself was not modified. Consumers
of CoSWID tags would need to validate the tag using the new credentials and would also need to
make use of revocation information available for the compromised credentials to avoid
validating tags signed with them. The process for doing this is beyond the scope of this
specification.

The CoSWID format allows the use of hash values without an accompanying hash algorithm
identifier. This exposes the tags to some risk of cross-algorithm attacks. We believe that this can
become a practical problem only if some implementations allow the use of insecure hash
algorithms. Since it may not become known immediately when an algorithm becomes insecure,
this leads to a strong recommendation to only include support for hash algorithms that are
generally considered secure, and not just marginally so.

CoSWID tags are intended to contain public information about software components and, as
such, the contents of a CoSWID tag (as opposed to the set of tags that apply to the endpoint; see
below) do not need to be protected against unintended disclosure on an endpoint. Conversely,
generators of CoSWID tags need to ensure that only public information is disclosed. The
entitlement-key item is an example of information for which particular care is required; tag
authors are advised not to record unprotected, private software license keys in this field.

CoSWID tags are intended to be easily discoverable by authorized applications and users on an
endpoint in order to make it easy to determine the tagged software load. Access to the collection
of an endpoint's CoSWID tags needs to be limited to authorized applications and users using an
appropriate access control mechanism.

Since the tag-id of a CoSWID tag can be used as a global index value, failure to ensure the tag-id's
uniqueness can cause collisions or ambiguity in CoSWID tags that are retrieved or processed
using this identifier. CoSWID is designed to not require a registry of identifiers. As a result,
CoSWID requires the tag creator to employ a method of generating a unique tag identifier.
Specific methods of generating a unique identifier are beyond the scope of this specification. A

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

collision in tag-ids may result in false positives/negatives in software integrity checks or
misidentification of installed software, undermining CoSWID use cases such as vulnerability
identification, software inventory, etc. If such a collision is detected, then the tag consumer may
want to contact the maintainer of the CoSWID to have them issue a correction addressing the
collision; however, this also discloses to the maintainer that the consumer has the other tag with
the given tag-id in their database. More generally speaking, a tag consumer needs to be robust
against such collisions lest the collision become a viable attack vector.

CoSWID tags are designed to be easily added and removed from an endpoint along with the
installation or removal of software components. On endpoints where the addition or removal of
software components is tightly controlled, the addition or removal of CoSWID tags can be
similarly controlled. On more open systems, where many users can manage the software
inventory, CoSWID tags can be easier to add or remove. On such systems, it can be possible to
add or remove CoSWID tags in a way that does not reflect the actual presence or absence of
corresponding software components. Similarly, not all software products automatically install
CoSWID tags, so products can be present on an endpoint without providing a corresponding
CoSWID tag. As such, any collection of CoSWID tags cannot automatically be assumed to
represent either a complete or fully accurate representation of the software inventory of the
endpoint. However, especially on endpoint devices that more strictly control the ability to add or
remove applications, CoSWID tags are an easy way to provide a preliminary understanding of
that endpoint's software inventory.

As CoSWID tags do not expire, inhibiting new CoSWID tags from reaching an intended consumer
would render that consumer stuck with outdated information, potentially leaving associated
vulnerabilities or weaknesses unmitigated. Therefore, a CoSWID tag consumer should actively
check for updated tag-versions via more than one means.

This specification makes use of relative paths (e.g., filesystem paths) in several places. A signed
CoSWID tag cannot make use of these to derive information that is considered to be covered
under the signature. Typically, relative filesystem paths will be used to identify targets for an
installation, not sources of tag information.

Any report of an endpoint's CoSWID tag collection provides information about the software
inventory of that endpoint. If such a report is exposed to an attacker, this can tell them which
software products and versions thereof are present on the endpoint. By examining this list, the
attacker might learn of the presence of applications that are vulnerable to certain types of
attacks. As noted earlier, CoSWID tags are designed to be easily discoverable by authorized
applications and users on an endpoint, but this does not present a significant risk, since an
attacker would already need to have access to the endpoint to view that information. However,
when the endpoint transmits its software inventory to another party or that inventory is stored
on a server for later analysis, this can potentially expose this information to attackers who do not
yet have access to the endpoint. For this reason, it is important to protect the confidentiality of
CoSWID tag information that has been collected from an endpoint in transit and at rest, not
because those tags individually contain sensitive information but because the collection of
CoSWID tags and their association with an endpoint reveals information about that endpoint's
attack surface.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Finally, both the ISO-19770-2:2015 XML Schema SWID definition and the CoSWID CDDL
specification allow for the construction of "infinite" tags with link item loops or tags that contain
malicious content with the intent of creating non-deterministic states during validation or
processing of those tags. While software providers are unlikely to do this, CoSWID tags can be
created by any party and the CoSWID tags collected from an endpoint could contain a mixture of
tags created by vendors and tags not created by vendors. For this reason, a CoSWID tag might
contain potentially malicious content. Input sanitization, loop detection, and signature
verification are ways that implementations can address this concern.

More generally speaking, the Security Considerations sections of
[RFC9338]

 apply.

[RFC8949] [RFC9052]
,

, and

10.  Privacy Considerations

As noted in Section 9, collected information about an endpoint's software load, such as what
might be represented by an endpoint's CoSWID tag collection, could be used by attackers to
identify vulnerable software. Collections of endpoint software information also can have privacy
implications for users. The set of applications a user installs can provide clues regarding
personal matters such as political affiliation, banking and investments, gender, sexual
orientation, medical concerns, etc. While the collection of CoSWID tags on an endpoint wouldn't
increase privacy risks (since a party able to view those tags could also view the applications
themselves), if those CoSWID tags are gathered and stored in a repository somewhere, visibility
into the repository now also provides visibility into a user's application collection. For this
reason, not only do repositories of collected CoSWID tags need to be protected against collection
by malicious parties but even authorized parties will need to be vetted and made aware of
privacy responsibilities associated with having access to this information. Likewise, users should
be made aware that their software inventories are being collected from endpoints. Furthermore,
when collected and stored by authorized parties or systems, the inventory data needs to be
protected as both security and privacy-sensitive information.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[BCP178]

[BCP26]

Saint-Andre, P. Crocker, D.
Similar Constructs in Application Protocols" BCP 178 RFC 6648

M. Nottingham "Deprecating the "X-" Prefix and

, June 2012.

, and

,

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp178>

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126

, and

,

,

,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

, June 2017.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp26>

[IANA.cbor-tags]

IANA "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Tags" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/cbor-tags>

.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

[IANA.core-parameters]

IANA "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters"

,

,

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/core-parameters>

.

[IANA.media-types]

IANA "Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types>

,

,

.

[IANA.named-information]

IANA "Named Information" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/

,

,
named-information>

.

[IANA.pa-tnc-parameters]

IANA "Posture Attribute (PA) Protocol Compatible with Trusted

,

Network Connect (TNC) Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/pa-tnc-
parameters>

,

.

[IANA.uri-schemes]

IANA "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) Schemes" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/uri-schemes>

.

[RFC2119]

[RFC3629]

[RFC3986]

[RFC5198]

[RFC5234]

[RFC5646]

[RFC5890]

[RFC7252]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

,

.

,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

,

.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

, January 2005,

 and

Klensin, J.
,
5198 DOI 10.17487/RFC5198
,
, March 2008,
rfc5198>

.

M. Padlipsky "Unicode Format for Network Interchange" RFC

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

, January 2008,

<https://

 and

Phillips, A., Ed.
5646 DOI 10.17487/RFC5646
,
rfc5646>

.

M. Davis, Ed. "Tags for Identifying Languages" BCP 47 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Definitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

,

,

.

,

Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
,
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

,

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

[RFC8288]

[RFC8412]

[RFC8610]

[RFC8949]

[RFC9052]

[RFC9338]

[SAM]

[SWID]

[UNSPSC]

Nottingham, M. "Web Linking" RFC 8288 DOI 10.17487/RFC8288
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>

,
.

,

, October 2017,

,

Schmidt, C. Haynes, D. Coffin, C. Waltermire, D.
,
"Software Inventory Message and Attributes (SWIMA) for PA-TNC" RFC 8412
DOI 10.17487/RFC8412
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8412>

J. Fitzgerald-McKay

, July 2018,

, and

,

,

,

,

, and

Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
,
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Definition Language

, June 2019,

,

,

.

Bormann, C.
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
editor.org/info/rfc8949>

P. Hoffman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
 and
<https://www.rfc-
,

, December 2020,

,

,

.

,

,

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Structures and
Process" STD 96 RFC 9052 DOI 10.17487/RFC9052
<https://
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9052>

, August 2022,

,

,

.

,

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Countersignatures"
<https://www.rfc-
STD 96 RFC 9338 DOI 10.17487/RFC9338
editor.org/info/rfc9338>

, December 2022,

,

,

.

,

"Information technology - IT asset management - Part 5: Overview and
vocabulary" ISO/IEC 19770-5:2015
,
68291.html>
.

, August 2015,

<https://www.iso.org/standard/

"Information technology - IT asset management - Part 2: Software identification
tag" ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015
65666.html>
.

<https://www.iso.org/standard/

, October 2015,

,

"United Nations Standard Products and Services Code"
www.unspsc.org/>

.

, 2022,

<https://

[W3C.REC-mediaqueries-3-20220405]

Rivoal, F., Ed. "Media Queries Level 3" W3C

,

,
<https://
, 5 April 2022,

Recommendation REC-mediaqueries-3-20220405
www.w3.org/TR/mediaqueries-3/>

.

[W3C.REC-xmlschema-2-20041028]

A. Malhotra, Ed. "XML Schema Part 2:
 and
Datatypes Second Edition" W3C Recommendation REC-xmlschema-2-20041028
,
28 October 2004,
.

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-xmlschema-2-20041028/>

Biron, P. V., Ed.

,

,

[W3C.REC-xpath20-20101214]

Berglund, A., Ed. Boag, S., Ed. Chamberlin, D., Ed. Fernández,
,

,
J. Siméon, Ed. "XML Path Language
M. F., Ed. Kay, M., Ed. Robie, J., Ed.
, and
(XPath) 2.0 (Second Edition)" W3C Recommendation REC-xpath20-20101214
December 2010,

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2010/REC-xpath20-20101214/>

,

,

,

.

,

,

, 14

11.2.  Informative References

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

[CamelCase]

[KebabCase]

[RFC3444]

[RFC4122]

[RFC7595]

[RFC8322]

[RFC8520]

[RFC9334]

[SEMVER]

"Camel Case (upper camel case)"
CamelCase>

.

, 18 December 2014,

<http://wiki.c2.com/?

"Kebab Case"

, 29 August 2014,

<http://wiki.c2.com/?KebabCase>

.

J. Schoenwaelder "On the Difference between Information Models

,

 and

Pras, A.
and Data Models" RFC 3444 DOI 10.17487/RFC3444
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3444>

,

,

.

, January 2003,

<https://

,

Leach, P. Mealling, M.
, and
Namespace" RFC 4122 DOI 10.17487/RFC4122
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc4122>

.

R. Salz "A Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID) URN

,

, July 2005,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Thaler, D., Ed. Hansen, T.
Procedures for URI Schemes" BCP 35 RFC 7595 DOI 10.17487/RFC7595
2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7595>

T. Hardie "Guidelines and Registration

, and
,

,
.

,

,

, June

,

Field, J. Banghart, S.
Information Exchange (ROLIE)" RFC 8322 DOI 10.17487/RFC8322
,
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8322>

D. Waltermire "Resource-Oriented Lightweight

, and

,

.

,

, February

,

D. Romascanu "Manufacturer Usage Description
Lear, E. Droms, R.
Specification" RFC 8520 DOI 10.17487/RFC8520
,
editor.org/info/rfc8520>
.

, March 2019,

, and

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Birkholz, H. Thaler, D. Richardson, M. Smith, N.
,
ATtestation procedureS (RATS) Architecture" RFC 9334 DOI 10.17487/RFC9334
January 2023,

W. Pan "Remote
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9334>
.

, and

,

,

,

Preston-Werner, T. "Semantic Versioning 2.0.0" <https://semver.org/spec/
v2.0.0.html>

,

,

.

[SWID-GUIDANCE]

Waltermire, D. Cheikes, B. A. Feldman, L.

,

,

, and

G. Witte "Guidelines for the

,

Creation of Interoperable Software Identification (SWID) Tags" NISTIR 8060
April 2016,

<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8060>

,

.

,

[X.1520]

,

ITU-T "Common vulnerabilities and exposures" ITU-T Recommendation X.1520
January 2014,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.1520>

,

.

,

Acknowledgments

This document draws heavily on the concepts defined in the ISO/IEC 19770-2:2015 specification.
The authors of this document are grateful for the prior work of the 19770-2 contributors.

We are also grateful for the careful reviews provided by the IESG reviewers. Special thanks go to
Benjamin Kaduk
.

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 60

RFC 9393

CoSWID

June 2023

Contributors

Carsten Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-421-218-63921
 cabo@tzi.org

Carsten Bormann

 contributed to the CDDL specifications and the IANA considerations.

Authors' Addresses

Henk Birkholz
Fraunhofer SIT
Rheinstrasse 75
64295 Darmstadt
Germany
Email:

 henk.birkholz@sit.fraunhofer.de

Jessica Fitzgerald-McKay
National Security Agency
9800 Savage Road
Ft. Meade Maryland 20755
United States of America
Email:

,

 jmfitz2@cyber.nsa.gov

Charles Schmidt
The MITRE Corporation
202 Burlington Road
Bedford Massachusetts 01730
United States of America
Email:

 cmschmidt@mitre.org

,

David Waltermire
National Institute of Standards and Technology
100 Bureau Drive
Gaithersburg Maryland 20877
United States of America
Email:

 david.waltermire@nist.gov

,

Birkholz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 61

