Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9347
Standards Track
January 2023
2070-1721
C. Hopps
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.

RFC 9347
Aggregation and Fragmentation Mode for
Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) and Its Use for
IP Traffic Flow Security (IP-TFS)

Abstract

This document describes a mechanism for aggregation and fragmentation of IP packets when
they are being encapsulated in Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP). This new payload type can
be used for various purposes, such as decreasing encapsulation overhead for small IP packets;
however, the focus in this document is to enhance IP Traffic Flow Security (IP-TFS) by adding
Traffic Flow Confidentiality (TFC) to encrypted IP-encapsulated traffic. TFC is provided by
obscuring the size and frequency of IP traffic using a fixed-size, constant-send-rate IPsec tunnel.
The solution allows for congestion control, as well as nonconstant send-rate usage.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9347
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology & Concepts

2.  The AGGFRAG Tunnel

2.1.  Tunnel Content

2.2.  Payload Content

2.2.1.  DataBlocks

2.2.2.  End Padding

2.2.3.  Fragmentation, Sequence Numbers, and All-Pad Payloads

2.2.4.  Empty Payload

2.2.5.  IP Header Value Mapping

2.2.6.  IPv4 Time To Live (TTL), IPv6 Hop Limit, and ICMP Messages

2.2.7.  Effective MTU of the Tunnel

2.3.  Exclusive SA Use

2.4.  Modes of Operation

2.4.1.  Non-Congestion-Controlled Mode

2.4.2.  Congestion-Controlled Mode

2.5.  Summary of Receiver Processing

3.  Congestion Information

3.1.  ECN Support

4.  Configuration of AGGFRAG Tunnels for IP-TFS

4.1.  Bandwidth

4.2.  Fixed Packet Size

4.3.  Congestion Control

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

5.  IKEv2

5.1.  USE_AGGFRAG Notification Message

6.  Packet and Data Formats

6.1.  AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Payload

6.1.1.  Non-Congestion-Control AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Payload Format

6.1.2.  Congestion Control AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Payload Format

6.1.3.  Data Blocks

6.1.4.  IKEv2 USE_AGGFRAG Notification Message

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  ESP Next Header Value

7.2.  AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Sub-Types

7.3.  USE_AGGFRAG Notify Message Status Type

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Example of an Encapsulated IP Packet Flow

Appendix B.  A Send and Loss Event Rate Calculation

Appendix C.  Comparisons of IP-TFS

C.1.  Comparing Overhead

C.1.1.  IP-TFS Overhead

C.1.2.  ESP with Padding Overhead

C.2.  Overhead Comparison

C.3.  Comparing Available Bandwidth

C.3.1.  Ethernet

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Author's Address

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

1.  Introduction

[RFC4301] [AppCrypt]

Traffic analysis
through a network. While directly obscuring the data with encryption
the message traffic may expose information due to variations in its shape and timing
[AppCrypt]
(TFC), per

, the patterns in
[RFC8546]
. Hiding the size and frequency of traffic is referred to as Traffic Flow Confidentiality
[RFC4303]
.

 is the act of extracting information about data being sent

[RFC4303]

 provides for TFC by allowing padding to be added to encrypted IP packets and

[RFC4303]
allowing for transmission of all-pad packets (indicated using protocol 59). This method has the
major limitation that it can significantly underutilize the available bandwidth.

This document defines an aggregation and fragmentation (AGGFRAG) mode for ESP, as well as
ESP's use for IP Traffic Flow Security (IP-TFS). This solution provides for full TFC without the
aforementioned bandwidth limitation. This is accomplished by using a constant-send-rate IPsec
[RFC4303]
contain partial, whole, or multiple IP packets to maximize the bandwidth of the tunnel. A
nonconstant send rate is allowed, but the confidentiality properties of its use are outside the
scope of this document.

 tunnel with fixed-size encapsulating packets; however, these fixed-size packets can

For a comparison of the overhead of IP-TFS with the TFC solution prescribed in
Appendix C.

[RFC4303]

, see

Additionally, IP-TFS provides for operating fairly within congested networks
important for when the IP-TFS user is not in full control of the domain through which the IP-TFS
tunnel path flows.

[RFC2914]

. This is

The mechanisms, such as the AGGFRAG mode, defined in this document are generic with the
intent of allowing for non-TFS uses, but such uses are outside the scope of this document.

1.1.  Terminology & Concepts

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document assumes familiarity with IP security concepts, including TFC, as described in
[RFC4301]
.

2.  The AGGFRAG Tunnel

As mentioned in Section 1, the AGGFRAG mode utilizes an IPsec
For the purpose of IP-TFS, fixed-size encapsulating packets are sent at a constant rate on the
AGGFRAG tunnel.

[RFC4303]

 tunnel as its transport.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

The primary input to the tunnel algorithm is the requested bandwidth to be used by the tunnel.
Two values are then required to provide for this bandwidth use: the fixed size of the
encapsulating packets and the rate at which to send them.

MAY

 either be specified manually or be determined through other methods,

The fixed packet size
such as the Packetization Layer MTU Discovery (PLMTUD)
Discovery (PMTUD)
considered the more robust option. For PLMTUD, congestion control payloads can be used as in-
band probes (see Section 6.1.2 and

. PMTUD is known to have issues, so PLMTUD is

[RFC1191] [RFC8201]

[RFC4821] [RFC8899]

 or Path MTU

[RFC8899]

).

Given the encapsulating packet size and the requested bandwidth to be used, the corresponding
packet send rate can be calculated. The packet send rate is the requested bandwidth to be used,
which is then divided by the size of the encapsulating packet.

The egress (receiving) side of the AGGFRAG tunnel
(sending) side of the AGGFRAG tunnel to vary the size and rate of sent encapsulating packets,
unless constrained by other policy.

 allow for and expect the ingress

MUST

2.1.  Tunnel Content

As previously mentioned, one issue with the TFC padding solution in
amount of wasted bandwidth, as only one IP packet can be sent per encapsulating packet. In
order to maximize bandwidth, IP-TFS breaks this one-to-one association by introducing an
AGGFRAG mode for ESP.

 is the large

[RFC4303]

The AGGFRAG mode aggregates and fragments the inner IP traffic flow into encapsulating IPsec
tunnel packets. For IP-TFS, the IPsec encapsulating tunnel packets are a fixed size. Padding is
only added to the tunnel packets if there is no data available to be sent at the time of tunnel
packet transmission or if fragmentation has been disabled by the receiver.

This is accomplished using a new Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)
field value AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD (Section 6.1).

[RFC4303]

 Next Header

Other non-IP-TFS uses of this AGGFRAG mode have been suggested, such as increased
performance through packet aggregation, as well as handling MTU issues using fragmentation.
These uses are not defined here but are also not restricted by this document.

2.2.  Payload Content

The AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payload content defined in this document consists of a 4- or 24-octet
header, followed by either a partial data block, a full data block, or multiple partial or full data
blocks. The following diagram illustrates this payload within the ESP packet. See Section 6.1 for
the exact formats of the AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payload.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . Outer Encapsulating Header ...                                .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . ESP Header...                                                 .
 +---------------------------------------------------------------+
 |   [AGGFRAG sub-type/flags]   :           BlockOffset          |
 +---------------------------------------------------------------+
 :                  [Optional Congestion Info]                   :
 +---------------------------------------------------------------+
 |       DataBlocks ...                                          ~
 ~                                                               ~
 ~                                                               |
 +---------------------------------------------------------------|
 . ESP Trailer...                                                .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Figure 1: Layout of an AGGFRAG Mode IPsec Packet

The BlockOffset value is either zero or some offset into or past the end of the DataBlocks data.

If the BlockOffset value is zero, it means that the DataBlocks data begins with a new data
block.

Conversely, if the BlockOffset value is non-zero, it points to the start of the new data block, and
the initial DataBlocks data belongs to the data block that is still being reassembled.

If the BlockOffset points past the end of the DataBlocks data, then the next data block occurs in
a subsequent encapsulating packet.

Having the BlockOffset always point at the next available data block allows for recovering the
next inner packet in the presence of outer encapsulating packet loss.

An example AGGFRAG mode packet flow can be found in Appendix A.

2.2.1.  DataBlocks

 +---------------------------------------------------------------+
 | Type  | rest of IPv4, IPv6, or pad...
 +--------

Figure 2: Layout of a Data Block

A data block is defined by a 4-bit type code, followed by the data block data. The type values have
been carefully chosen to coincide with the IPv4/IPv6 version field values so that no per-data
block type overhead is required to encapsulate an IP packet. Likewise, the length of the data
block is extracted from the encapsulated IPv4's Total Length or IPv6's Payload Length fields.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

2.2.2.  End Padding

Since a data block's type is identified in its first 4 bits, the only time padding is required is when
there is no data to encapsulate. For this end padding, a Pad Data Block is used.

2.2.3.  Fragmentation, Sequence Numbers, and All-Pad Payloads

In order for a receiver to reassemble fragmented inner packets, the sender
packet fragments back to back in the logical outer packet stream (i.e., using consecutive ESP
sequence numbers). However, the sender is allowed to insert "all-pad" payloads (i.e., payloads
with a BlockOffset of zero and a single pad data block ) in between the packets carrying the
inner packet fragment payloads. This interleaving of all-pad payloads allows the sender to
always send a tunnel packet, regardless of the encapsulation computational requirements.

MUST

 send the inner

When a receiver is reassembling an inner packet, and it receives an "all-pad" payload, it
increments the expected sequence number that the next inner packet fragment is expected to
arrive in.

Given the above, the receiver will need to handle out-of-order arrival of outer ESP packets prior
to reassembly processing. ESP already provides for optionally detecting replay attacks. Detecting
replay attacks normally utilizes a window method. A similar sequence-number-based sliding
window can be used to correct reordering of the outer packet stream. Receiving a larger (newer)
sequence number packet advances the window, and if any older ESP packets whose sequence
numbers the window has passed by are received, then the packets are dropped. A good choice
for the size of this window depends on the amount of misordering the user is experiencing;
however, a value of 3 has been suggested as a default when no more informed choice exists.

As the amount of misordering that may be present is hard to predict, the window size
configurable by the user. Implementations
based on actual misordering seen in arriving packets.

 also dynamically adjust the reordering window

SHOULD

MAY

 be

Please note, when IP-TFS sends a continuous stream of packets, there is no requirement for an
explicit lost packet timer; however, using a lost packet timer is
implementation does not use a lost packet timer and only considers an outer packet lost when
the reorder window moves by it, the inner traffic can be delayed by up to the reorder window
size times the per-packet send rate. This delay could be significant for slower send rates or when
larger reorder window sizes are in use. As the lost packet timer affects the delay of inner packet
delivery, an implementation or user could choose to set it proportionate to the tunnel rate.

RECOMMENDED

. If an

While ESP guarantees an increasing sequence number with subsequently sent packets, it does
not actually require the sequence numbers to be generated consecutively (e.g., sending only
even-numbered sequence numbers would be allowed, as long as they are always increasing).
Gaps in the sequence numbers will not work for this document, so the sequence number stream
MUST

 increase monotonically by 1 for each subsequent packet.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

MAY

When using the AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD in conjunction with replay detection, the window size for
both
 be reduced to the smaller of the two window sizes. This is because packets outside of
the smaller window but inside the larger window would still be dropped by the mechanism with
the smaller window size. However, there is also no requirement to make these values the same.
Indeed, in some cases, such as slow tunnels where a very small or zero reorder window size is
appropriate, the user may still want a large replay detection window to log replayed packets.
Additionally, large replay windows can be implemented with very little overhead, compared to
large reorder windows.

Finally, as sequence numbers are reset when switching Security Associations (SAs) (e.g., when
rekeying a Child SA), senders
 send initial fragments of an inner packet using one SA
and subsequent fragments in a different SA.

MUST NOT

MUST

A note on BlockOffset values: Senders
with the immediately preceding non-all-pad payload packet. Specifically, if the
immediately preceding non-all-pad payload packet ended with a Pad Data Block,
this BlockOffset
BlockOffset
MUST
from the fragmented inner packet.

 be zero, as Pad Data Blocks are never fragmented. The
 be consistent with the remaining size implied by the length field

 encode the BlockOffset consistently

MUST

2.2.3.1.  Optional Extra Padding

MAY

 pad out the current

When the tunnel bandwidth is not being fully utilized, a sender
encapsulating packet in order to deliver an inner packet unfragmented in the following outer
packet. The benefit would be to avoid inner packet fragmentation in the presence of a bursty
offered load (non-bursty traffic will naturally not fragment). Senders
 also choose to allow
for a minimum fragment size to be configured (e.g., as a percentage of the AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD
payload size) to avoid fragmentation at the cost of tunnel bandwidth. The costs with these
methods are complexity and an added delay of inner traffic. The main advantage to avoiding
fragmentation is to minimize inner packet loss in the presence of outer packet loss. When this is
worthwhile (e.g., how much loss and what type of loss is required, given different inner traffic
shapes and utilization, for this to make sense) and what values to use for the allowable/added
delay may be worth researching but is outside the scope of this document.

MAY

While use of padding to avoid fragmentation does not impact interoperability, if padding is used
inappropriately, it can reduce the effective throughput of a tunnel. Senders implementing either
of the above approaches will need to take care to not reduce the effective capacity, and overall
utility, of the tunnel through the overuse of padding.

2.2.4.  Empty Payload

To support reporting of congestion control information (described later) using a non-
AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD-enabled SA, it is allowed to send an AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payload with no
data blocks (i.e., the ESP payload length is equal to the AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD header length). This
special payload is called an empty payload.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

Currently, this situation is only applicable in use cases without Internet Key Exchange Protocol
Version 2 (IKEv2).

2.2.5.  IP Header Value Mapping

 provides some direction on when and how to map various values from an inner IP
, the

[RFC4301]
header to the outer encapsulating header, namely the Don't Fragment (DF) bit
Differentiated Services (DS) field
[RFC2474]
[RFC3168]
than one IP packet per ESP packet. To deal with this, these mappings are restricted further.

, and the Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) field
, the AGGFRAG mode may, and often will, be encapsulating more

. Unlike in

[RFC4301]

[RFC0791]

2.2.5.1.  DF Bit

The AGGFRAG mode never maps the inner DF bit, as it is unrelated to the AGGFRAG tunnel
functionality; the AGGFRAG mode never needs to IP fragment the inner packets, and the inner
packets will not affect the fragmentation of the outer encapsulation packets.

2.2.5.2.  ECN Value

The ECN value need not be mapped, as any congestion related to the constant-send-rate IP-TFS
tunnel is unrelated (by design) to the inner traffic flow. The sender
inner packets based on the normal ECN specification

MAY
[RFC3168] [RFC4301] [RFC6040]
.

 still set the ECN value of

2.2.5.3.  DS Field

By default, the DS field
configuration to override this behavior. A sender
configuration.

SHOULD NOT

 be copied, although a sender

MAY

 choose to allow for

SHOULD

 also allow the DS value to be set by

2.2.6.  IPv4 Time To Live (TTL), IPv6 Hop Limit, and ICMP Messages

How to modify the inner packet IPv4 TTL
[RFC4301]
.

[RFC0791]

 or IPv6 Hop Limit

[RFC8200]

 is specified in

 specifies how to apply policy to authenticated and unauthenticated ICMP error

[RFC4301]
packets (e.g., Destination Unreachable) arriving at or being forwarded through the endpoint, in
particular, whether to process, ignore, or forward said packets. With the one exception that this
document does not change the handling of these packets, they should be handled as specified in
[RFC4301]
.

The one way in which an AGGFRAG tunnel differs in ICMP error packet mechanics is with PMTU.
When fragmentation is enabled on the AGGFRAG tunnel, then no ICMP "Too Big" errors need to
be generated for arriving ingress traffic, as the arriving inner packets will be naturally
fragmented by the AGGFRAG encapsulation.

Otherwise, when fragmentation has been disabled on the AGGFRAG tunnel, then the treatment of
arriving inner traffic exactly maps to that of a non-AGGFRAG ESP tunnel. Explicitly, IPv4 with DF
set and IPv6 packets that cannot fit in its own outer packet payload will generate the appropriate
ICMP "Too Big" error, as described in
[RFC4301]
[RFC4301]
.
fragmented, as described in

, and IPv4 packets without DF set will be IP

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

Packets egressing the tunnel continue to be handled as specified in

[RFC4301]
.

All other aspects of PMTU and the handling of ICMP "Too Big" messages (i.e., with regards to the
outer AGGFRAG/ESP tunnel packet size) also remain unchanged from

[RFC4301]
.

2.2.7.  Effective MTU of the Tunnel

[RFC4301]

Unlike in
, there is normally no effective MTU (EMTU) on an AGGFRAG tunnel, as all IP
packet sizes are properly transmitted without requiring IP fragmentation prior to tunnel ingress.
That said, a sender

 allow for explicitly configuring an MTU for the tunnel.

MAY

If fragmentation has been disabled on the AGGFRAG tunnel, then the tunnel's EMTU and
behaviors are the same as normal IPsec tunnels

[RFC4301]
.

2.3.  Exclusive SA Use

This document does not specify mixed use of an AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD-enabled SA. A sender
only send AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payloads over an SA configured for AGGFRAG mode.

MUST

2.4.  Modes of Operation

Just as with normal IPsec/ESP SAs, AGGFRAG SAs are unidirectional. Bidirectional IP-TFS
functionality is achieved by setting up 2 AGGFRAG SAs, one in either direction.

An AGGFRAG tunnel used for IP-TFS can operate in 2 modes, a non-congestion-controlled mode
and congestion-controlled mode.

2.4.1.  Non-Congestion-Controlled Mode

In the non-congestion-controlled mode, IP-TFS sends fixed-size packets over an AGGFRAG tunnel
at a constant rate. The packet send rate is constant and is not automatically adjusted, regardless
of any network congestion (e.g., packet loss).

[RFC7510]

, the non-congestion-controlled mode

MUST
 be used if this is not the case. This is required so the user can guarantee the bandwidth and
. In this case, packet

For similar reasons as given in
used where the user has full administrative control over any path the tunnel will take and
NOT
also be sure as to not be negatively affecting network congestion
loss should be reported to the administrator (e.g., via syslog, YANG notification, SNMP traps, etc.)
so that any failures due to a lack of bandwidth can be corrected. The use of circuit breakers is
also

 (Section 2.4.2.1).

RECOMMENDED

[RFC2914]

 only be

MUST

Users that choose the non-congestion-controlled mode need to understand that this mode will
send packets at a constant rate, utilizing a constant, fixed bandwidth, and will not adjust based
on congestion. Thus, if they do not guarantee the bandwidth required by the tunnel, the tunnel's
operation, as well as the rest of their network, may be negatively impacted.

One expected use case for the non-congestion-controlled mode is to guarantee the full tunnel
bandwidth is available and preferred over other non-tunnel traffic. In fact, a typical site-to-site
use case might have all of the user traffic utilizing the IP-TFS tunnel.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

The non-congestion-controlled mode is also appropriate if ESP over TCP is in use
However, the use of TCP is considered a fallback-only solution for IPsec; it is highly not
preferred. This is also one of the reasons that TCP was not chosen as the encapsulation for IP-TFS
instead of AGGFRAG.

[RFC9329]
.

2.4.2.  Congestion-Controlled Mode

With the congestion-controlled mode, IP-TFS adapts to network congestion by lowering the
packet send rate to accommodate the congestion, as well as raising the rate when congestion
subsides. Since overhead is per packet, by allowing for maximal fixed-size packets and varying
the send rate, transport overhead is minimized.

The output of the congestion control algorithm will adjust the rate at which the ingress sends
packets. While this document does not require a specific congestion control algorithm, best
current practice RECOMMENDS that the algorithm conform to
principles are documented in
algorithm in
packets and send rate varied based on congestion).

[RFC5348]
 as well. There is an example in

, which matches the requirements of IP-TFS (i.e., designed for fixed-size

. Congestion control
[RFC4342]

[RFC5348]

[RFC2914]

 of the

The required inputs for the TCP-friendly rate control algorithm described in
receiver's loss event rate and the sender's estimated round-trip time (RTT). These values are
provided by IP-TFS using the congestion information header fields described in Section 3. In
particular, these values are sufficient to implement the algorithm described in

[RFC5348]
.

[RFC5348]

 are the

MUST

 be sent, from the receiver and from the sender,

At a minimum, the congestion information
at least once per RTT. Prior to establishing an RTT, the information
 be sent constantly
from the sender and the receiver so that an RTT estimate can be established. Not receiving this
information over multiple consecutive RTT intervals should be considered a congestion event
that causes the sender to adjust its sending rate lower. For example, this is called the "no
feedback timeout" in
has occurred, the sending rate is halved, as per

, and it is equal to 4 RTT intervals. When a "no feedback timeout"

[RFC4342]
.

[RFC4342]

SHOULD

MAY

 choose to always include the congestion information in its AGGFRAG

An implementation
payload header if it is sending it on an IP-TFS-enabled SA. Since IP-TFS normally will operate
with a large packet size, the congestion information should represent a small portion of the
 also
available tunnel bandwidth. An implementation choosing to always send the data
choose to only update the LossEventRate and RTT header field values it sends every RTT
through.

MAY

When choosing a congestion control algorithm (or a selection of algorithms), note that IP-TFS is
not providing for reliable delivery of IP traffic, and so per-packet acknowledgements (ACKs) are
not required and are not provided.

It is worth noting that the variable send rate of a congestion-controlled AGGFRAG tunnel is not
private; however, this send rate is being driven by network congestion, and as long as the
encapsulated (inner) traffic flow shape and timing are not directly affecting the (outer) network
congestion, the variations in the tunnel rate will not weaken the provided inner traffic flow
confidentiality.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

2.4.2.1.  Circuit Breakers

 implement circuit breakers

In addition to congestion control, implementations that support the non-congestion-control mode
SHOULD
breakers are enabled, an implementation
circuit breakers have information to act on.

 as a recovery method of last resort. When circuit
 also enable congestion control reports so that

[RFC8084]

SHOULD

The pseudowire congestion considerations
defined in this document, notably the text on inelastic traffic.

[RFC7893]

 are equally applicable to the mechanisms

One example of a simple, slow-trip circuit breaker that an implementation may provide would
utilize 2 values: the amount of persistent loss rate required to trip the circuit breaker and the
required length of time this persistent loss rate must be seen to trip the circuit breaker. These 2
value are required configurations from the user. When the circuit breaker is tripped, the tunnel
traffic is disabled and an appropriate log message or other management type alarm is triggered,
indicating operation intervention is required.

2.5.  Summary of Receiver Processing

An AGGFRAG-enabled SA receiver has a few tasks to perform.

MAY

 process incoming AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payloads as soon as they arrive, as

The receiver
much as it can, i.e., if the incoming AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD packet contains complete inner
packet(s), the receiver should extract and transmit them immediately. For partial packets, the
receiver needs to keep the partial packets in the memory until they fall out from the reordering
window or until the missing parts of the packets are received, in which case, it will reassemble
and transmit them. If the AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payload contains multiple packets, they
SHOULD
be sent out in the order they are in the AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD (i.e., keep the original order they
were received on the other end). The cost of using this method is that an amplification of out-of-
order delivery of inner packets can occur due to inner packet aggregation.

Instead of the method described in the previous paragraph, the receiver
order AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payloads received into in-sequence-order AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD
payloads (Section 2.2.3), and only after it has an in-order AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payload stream
would the receiver transmit the inner packets. Using this method will ensure the inner packets
are sent in order. The cost of this method is that a lost packet will cause a delay of up to the lost
packet timer interval (or the full reorder window if no lost packet timer is used). Additionally,
there can be extra burstiness in the output stream. This burstiness can happen when a lost
packet is dropped from the reorder window, and the remaining outer packets in the reorder
window are immediately processed and sent out back to back.

 reorder out-of-

MAY

Additionally, if congestion control is enabled, the receiver sends congestion control data (Section
6.1.2) back to the sender, as described in Sections 2.4.2 and 3.

Finally, a note on receiving incorrect BlockOffset values: To account for misbehaving senders, a
receiver
 gracefully handle the case where the BlockOffset of consecutive packets, and/
or the inner packet they share, do not agree. It
outer packets.

 drop the inner packet or one or both of the

SHOULD

MAY

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

3.  Congestion Information

In order to support the congestion-controlled mode, the sender needs to know the loss event rate
and to approximate the RTT
congestion control information on its SA back to the sender. Thus, to support congestion control,
the receiver
 have a paired SA back to the sender (this is always the case when the tunnel
was created using IKEv2). If the SA back to the sender is a non-AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD-enabled SA,
then an AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD empty payload (i.e., header only) is used to convey the information.

. In order to obtain these values, the receiver sends

[RFC5348]

MUST

In order to calculate a loss event rate compatible with
, the receiver needs to have an
RTT estimate. Thus, the sender communicates this estimate in the RTT header field. On startup,
this value will be zero, as no RTT estimate is yet known.

[RFC5348]

In order for the sender to estimate its RTT value, the sender places a timestamp value in the TVal
header field. On first receipt of this TVal, the receiver records the new TVal value, along with the
 update the recorded time.
time it arrived locally. Subsequent receipt of the same TVal

MUST NOT

When the receiver sends its congestion control header, it places this latest recorded TVal in the
TEcho header field, along with 2 delay values: Echo Delay and Transmit Delay. The Echo Delay
value is the time delta from the recorded arrival time of TVal and the current clock in
microseconds. The second value, Transmit Delay, is the receiver's current transmission delay on
the tunnel (i.e., the average time between sending packets on its half of the AGGFRAG tunnel).

When the sender receives back its TVal in the TEcho header field, it calculates 2 RTT estimates.
The first is the actual delay found by subtracting the TEcho value from its current clock and then
subtracting the Echo Delay as well. The second RTT estimate is found by adding the received
Transmit Delay header value to the sender's own transmission delay (i.e., the average time
between sending packets on its half of the AGGFRAG tunnel). The larger of these 2 RTT estimates
SHOULD

 be used as the RTT value.

The two RTT estimates are required to handle different combinations of faster or slower tunnel
packet paths with faster or slower fixed tunnel rates. Choosing the larger of the two values
guarantees that the RTT is never considered faster than the aggregate transmission delay based
on the IP-TFS send rate (the second estimate), as well as never being considered faster than the
actual RTT along the tunnel packet path (the first estimate).

The receiver also calculates, and communicates in the LossEventRate header field, the loss event
rate for use by the sender. This is slightly different from
the loss interval data back to the sender so that it can do the calculation. See Appendix B for a
suggested way to calculate the loss event rate value. Initially, this value will be zero (indicating
no loss) until enough data has been collected by the receiver to update it.

, which periodically sends all

[RFC4342]

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

3.1.  ECN Support

In addition to normal packet loss information, the AGGFRAG mode supports use of the ECN bits
 for identifying congestion. If ECN use is enabled and a
in the encapsulating IP header
packet arrives at the egress (receiving) side with the Congestion Experienced (CE) value set, then
the receiver considers that packet as being dropped, although it does not drop it. The receiver
MUST
derived from a CE value being considered.

 set the E bit in any AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payload header containing a LossEventRate value

[RFC3168]

 and

[RFC4301]

[RFC3168]

[RFC6040]

, which updates

In
value based on the ECN field of the inner packet are defined. As the AGGFRAG mode may have
multiple inner packets present in a single outer packet, and there is no obvious correct way to
map these multiple values to the single outer packet ECN field value, the tunnel ingress endpoint
[RFC6040]
SHOULD
particular, this means that the ingress (sending) endpoint of the tunnel always sets the newly
constructed outer encapsulating packet header ECN field to Not-ECT

 operate in the "compatibility" mode, rather than the "default" mode from

, behaviors for marking the outer ECN field

[RFC6040]
.

. In

4.  Configuration of AGGFRAG Tunnels for IP-TFS

IP-TFS is meant to be deployable with a minimal amount of configuration. All IP-TFS-specific
configuration should be specified at the unidirectional tunnel ingress (sending) side. It is
intended that non-IKEv2 operation is supported, at least, with local static configuration.

YANG and MIB documents have been defined for IP-TFS in

[RFC9348]

 and

[RFC9349]
.

4.1.  Bandwidth

Bandwidth is a local configuration option. For the non-congestion-controlled mode, the
bandwidth
configured or the congestion control algorithm discovers and uses the maximum bandwidth
available. No standardized configuration method is required.

 be configured. For the congestion-controlled mode, the bandwidth can be

SHOULD

4.2.  Fixed Packet Size

The fixed packet size to be used for the tunnel encapsulation packets
manually or can be automatically determined using other methods, such as PLMTUD
[RFC8899]
considered the more robust option. No standardized configuration method is required.

. As PMTUD is known to have issues, PLMTUD is

[RFC1191] [RFC8201]

 be configured

 or PMTUD

MAY

[RFC4821]

4.3.  Congestion Control

Congestion control is a local configuration option. No standardized configuration method is
required.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

5.  IKEv2

5.1.  USE_AGGFRAG Notification Message

As mentioned previously, AGGFRAG tunnels utilize ESP payloads of type AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD.

When using IKEv2, a new "USE_AGGFRAG" notification message enables the AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD
payload on a Child SA pair. The method used is similar to how USE_TRANSPORT_MODE is
negotiated, as described in

[RFC7296]
.

To request use of the AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payload on the Child SA pair, the initiator includes the
USE_AGGFRAG notification in an SA payload requesting a new Child SA (either during the initial
IKE_AUTH or during CREATE_CHILD_SA exchanges). If the request is accepted, then the response
 also include a notification of type USE_AGGFRAG. If the responder declines the request, the
MUST
Child SA will be established without AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payload use enabled. If this is
unacceptable to the initiator, the initiator

 delete the Child SA.

MUST

As the use of the AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payload is currently only defined for non-transport-mode
tunnels, the USE_AGGFRAG notification
notification.

 be combined with the USE_TRANSPORT

MUST NOT

The USE_AGGFRAG notification contains a 1-octet payload of flags that specify requirements
from the sender of the notification. If any requirement flags are not understood or cannot be
supported by the receiver, then the receiver
 enable use of AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD
(either by not responding with the USE_AGGFRAG notification or, in the case of the initiator, by
deleting the Child SA if the now-established non-AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD using SA is unacceptable).

SHOULD NOT

The notification type and payload flag values are defined in Section 6.1.4.

6.  Packet and Data Formats

The packet and data formats defined below are generic with the intent of allowing for non-IP-TFS
uses, but such uses are outside the scope of this document.

6.1.  AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Payload

ESP Next Header value: 144

An AGGFRAG payload is identified by the ESP Next Header value AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD, which has
the value 144, which has been reserved in the IP protocol numbers space. The first octet of the
payload indicates the format of the remaining payload data.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-
 |   Sub-type    | ...
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Figure 3: AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Payload Format

Sub-type:

An 8-bit value indicating the payload format.

This document defines 2 payload sub-types. These payload formats are defined in the following
sections.

6.1.1.  Non-Congestion-Control AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Payload Format

The non-congestion-control AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payload consists of a 4-octet header, followed
by a variable amount of DataBlocks data, as shown below.

                      1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |  Sub-Type (0) |   Reserved    |          BlockOffset          |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |       DataBlocks ...
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Figure 4: Non-Congestion-Control Payload Format

Sub-type:

An octet indicating the payload format. For this non-congestion-control format, the value is 0.

Reserved:

An octet set to 0 on generation and ignored on receipt.

BlockOffset:

A 16-bit unsigned integer counting the number of octets of DataBlocks data before the start
of a new data block. If the start of a new data block occurs in a subsequent payload, the
BlockOffset will point past the end of the DataBlocks data. In this case, all the DataBlocks
data belongs to the current data block being assembled. When the BlockOffset extends into
subsequent payloads, it continues to only count DataBlocks data (i.e., it does not count
subsequent packets of the non-DataBlocks data, such as header octets).

DataBlocks:

Variable number of octets that begins with the start of a data block or the continuation of a
previous data block, followed by zero or more additional data blocks.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

6.1.2.  Congestion Control AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Payload Format

The congestion control AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payload consists of a 24-octet header, followed by a
variable amount of DataBlocks data, as shown below.

                      1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |  Sub-type (1) |  Reserved |P|E|          BlockOffset          |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                          LossEventRate                        |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                      RTT                  |   Echo Delay ...
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      ... Echo Delay   |           Transmit Delay                |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                              TVal                             |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                             TEcho                             |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |       DataBlocks ...
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Figure 5: Congestion Control Payload Format

Sub-type:

An octet indicating the payload format. For this congestion control format, the value is 1.

Reserved:

A 6-bit field set to 0 on generation and ignored on receipt.

A 1-bit value that, if set, indicates that PLMTUD probing is in progress. This information can
be used to avoid treating missing packets as loss events by the congestion control algorithm
when running the PLMTUD probe algorithm.

P:

E:

A 1-bit value that, if set, indicates that Congestion Experienced (CE) ECN bits were received
and used in deriving the reported LossEventRate.

BlockOffset:

The same value as the non-congestion-controlled payload format value.

LossEventRate:

A 32-bit value specifying the inverse of the current loss event rate, as calculated by the
receiver. A value of zero indicates no loss. Otherwise, the loss event rate is 1/LossEventRate.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9347

RTT:

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

A 22-bit value specifying the sender's current RTT estimate in microseconds. The value
be zero prior to the sender having calculated an RTT estimate. The value
zero on non-AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD-enabled SAs. If the RTT is equal to or larger than 0x3FFFFF,
the value

 be set to 0x3FFFFF.

 be set to

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

Echo Delay:

A 21-bit value specifying the delay in microseconds incurred between the receiver first
receiving the TVal value, which it is sending back in TEcho. If the delay is equal to or larger
than 0x1FFFFF, the value

 be set to 0x1FFFFF.

MUST

Transmit Delay:

A 21-bit value specifying the transmission delay in microseconds. This is the fixed (or average)
delay on the receiver between it sending packets on the IP-TFS tunnel. If the delay is equal to
or larger than 0x1FFFFF, the value

 be set to 0x1FFFFF.

MUST

TVal:

An opaque, 32-bit value that will be echoed back by the receiver in later packets in the TEcho
field, along with an Echo Delay value of how long that echo took.

TEcho:

The opaque, 32-bit value from a received packet's TVal field. The received TVal is placed in
TEcho, along with an Echo Delay value indicating how long it has been since receiving the
TVal value.

DataBlocks:

Variable number of octets that begins with the start of a data block or the continuation of a
previous data block, followed by zero or more additional data blocks. For the special case of
sending congestion control information on a non-IP-TFS-enabled SA, this field
(i.e., be zero octets long).

MUST

 be empty

6.1.3.  Data Blocks

                      1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Type  | IPv4, IPv6, or pad...
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Figure 6: Data Block Format

Type:

A 4-bit field where 0x0 identifies a Pad Data Block, 0x4 indicates an IPv4 data block, and 0x6
indicates an IPv6 data block.

6.1.3.1.  IPv4 Data Block

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

                      1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |  0x4  |  IHL  |  TypeOfService  |         TotalLength         |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 | Rest of the inner packet ...
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Figure 7: IPv4 Data Block Format

These values are the actual values within the encapsulated IPv4 header. In other words, the start
of this data block is the start of the encapsulated IP packet.

Type:

A 4-bit value of 0x4 indicating IPv4 (i.e., first nibble of the IPv4 packet).

TotalLength:

The 16-bit unsigned integer "Total Length" field of the IPv4 inner packet.

6.1.3.2.  IPv6 Data Block

                      1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |  0x6  | TrafficClass  |               FlowLabel               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |         PayloadLength         | Rest of the inner packet ...
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Figure 8: IPv6 Data Block Format

These values are the actual values within the encapsulated IPv6 header. In other words, the start
of this data block is the start of the encapsulated IP packet.

Type:

A 4-bit value of 0x6 indicating IPv6 (i.e., first nibble of the IPv6 packet).

PayloadLength:

The 16-bit unsigned integer "Payload Length" field of the inner IPv6 inner packet.

6.1.3.3.  Pad Data Block

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

                      1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |  0x0  | Padding ...
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Figure 9: Pad Data Block Format

Type:

A 4-bit value of 0x0 indicating a padding data block.

Padding:

Extends to end of the encapsulating packet.

6.1.4.  IKEv2 USE_AGGFRAG Notification Message

As discussed in Section 5.1, a notification message USE_AGGFRAG is used to negotiate use of the
ESP AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Next Header value.

The USE_AGGFRAG Notification Message State Type is 16442.

The notification payload contains 1 octet of requirement flags. There are currently 2 requirement
flags defined. This may be revised by later specifications.

 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |0|0|0|0|0|0|C|D|
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 10: USE_AGGFRAG Requirement Flags

0:

C:

D:

6 bits - Reserved

MUST

 be zero on send, unless defined by later specifications.

Congestion Control bit. If set, then the sender is requiring that congestion control information
MUST

 be returned to it periodically, as defined in Section 3.

Don't Fragment bit. If set, it indicates the sender of the notify message does not support
receiving packet fragments (i.e., inner packets
value only applies to what the sender is capable of receiving; the sender
fragments unless similarly restricted by the receiver in its USE_AGGFRAG notification.

 be sent using a single Data Block). This

 still send packet

MUST

MAY

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  ESP Next Header Value

IANA has allocated an IP protocol number from the "Protocol Numbers - Assigned Internet
Protocol Numbers" registry as follows.

Decimal:
Keyword:
Protocol:
Reference:

144
AGGFRAG
AGGFRAG encapsulation payload for ESP

RFC 9347

7.2.  AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Sub-Types

IANA has created a registry called "AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Sub-Types" under a new category named
"ESP AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD". The registration policy for this registry is "Expert Review"
[RFC7120]
.

[RFC8126]

Name:
Description:
Reference:

AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Sub-Types

AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Payload Formats

RFC 9347

This initial content for this registry is as follows:

Sub-Type Name

Reference

0

1

Non-Congestion-Control Format

RFC 9347

Congestion Control Format

RFC 9347

3-255

Reserved

Table 1: AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD Sub-Types

7.3.  USE_AGGFRAG Notify Message Status Type

IANA has allocated a status type USE_AGGFRAG from the "IKEv2 Notify Message Types - Status
Types" registry.

16442

Decimal:
Name:
Reference:

USE_AGGFRAG

RFC 9347

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

8.  Security Considerations

This document describes an aggregation and fragmentation mechanism to efficiently implement
TFC for IP traffic. This approach is expected to reduce the efficacy of traffic analysis on IPsec
communication. Other than the additional security afforded by using this mechanism, IP-TFS
utilizes the security protocols
, and so their security considerations
apply to IP-TFS as well.

[RFC7296]

[RFC4303]

 and

As noted in Section 3.1, the ECN bits are not protected by IPsec and thus may constitute a covert
channel. For this reason, ECN use

 be enabled by default.

SHOULD NOT

As noted previously in Section 2.4.2, for TFC to be maintained, the encapsulated traffic flow
should not be affecting network congestion in a predictable way, and if it would be, then non-
congestion-controlled mode use should be considered instead.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4303]

[RFC7296]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Kent, S. "IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)" RFC 4303 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC4303

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4303>

, December 2005,

,

,

.

,

Kaufman, C. Hoffman, P. Nir, Y. Eronen, P.
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" STD 79 RFC 7296 DOI 10.17487/RFC7296
October 2014,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7296>
.

T. Kivinen "Internet Key

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[AppCrypt]

[RFC0791]

[RFC1191]

Schneier, B. "Applied Cryptography: Protocols, Algorithms, and Source Code in
C"

, 1996.

,

,

Postel, J. "Internet Protocol" STD 5 RFC 791 DOI 10.17487/RFC0791
1981,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc791>

,

,

.

, September

Mogul, J.
RFC1191

 and
, November 1990,

S. Deering "Path MTU discovery" RFC 1191 DOI 10.17487/

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1191>

,

,

.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

[RFC2474]

[RFC2914]

[RFC3168]

[RFC4301]

[RFC4342]

[RFC4821]

[RFC5348]

[RFC6040]

[RFC7120]

[RFC7510]

[RFC7893]

[RFC8084]

[RFC8126]

,

Nichols, K. Blake, S. Baker, F.
Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers" RFC 2474 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2474

D. Black "Definition of the Differentiated
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2474>

, December 1998,

, and

,

,

,

.

Floyd, S. "Congestion Control Principles" BCP 41 RFC 2914 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC2914
, September 2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2914>

.

,

,

,

Ramakrishnan, K. Floyd, S.
Notification (ECN) to IP" RFC 3168 DOI 10.17487/RFC3168
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3168>

, and

,

,

,

.

D. Black "The Addition of Explicit Congestion

,

, September 2001,

 and

Kent, S.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4301
rfc4301>

.

K. Seo "Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol" RFC 4301

,

,

,

, December 2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, and

Floyd, S. Kohler, E.
,
Protocol (DCCP) Congestion Control ID 3: TCP-Friendly Rate Control (TFRC)" RFC
4342 DOI 10.17487/RFC4342
,
rfc4342>

J. Padhye "Profile for Datagram Congestion Control
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2006,

,

.

Mathis, M.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4821

J. Heffner "Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery" RFC 4821
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4821>

, March 2007,

 and

,

,

,

,

Floyd, S. Handley, M. Padhye, J.
(TFRC): Protocol Specification" RFC 5348 DOI 10.17487/RFC5348
,
2008,

J. Widmer "TCP Friendly Rate Control
, September

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5348>

, and

,

,

,

.

Briscoe, B. "Tunnelling of Explicit Congestion Notification" RFC 6040 DOI
10.17487/RFC6040

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6040>

, November 2010,

,

,

,

.

,

Cotton, M. "Early IANA Allocation of Standards Track Code Points" BCP 100 RFC
7120 DOI 10.17487/RFC7120
,
rfc7120>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2014,

,

.

,

Xu, X. Sheth, N. Yong, L. Callon, R.
,
RFC 7510 DOI 10.17487/RFC7510
rfc7510>

,
.

,

, and

D. Black "Encapsulating MPLS in UDP"

,

,

, April 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Stein, Y(J). Black, D.
,
RFC 7893 DOI 10.17487/RFC7893
,
rfc7893>
.

, and

B. Briscoe "Pseudowire Congestion Considerations"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2016,

,

Fairhurst, G. "Network Transport Circuit Breakers" BCP 208 RFC 8084 DOI
10.17487/RFC8084

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8084>

, March 2017,

,

,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

[RFC8200]

[RFC8201]

[RFC8546]

[RFC8899]

[RFC9329]

[RFC9348]

[RFC9349]

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

.

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2017,

,

,

McCann, J. Deering, S. Mogul, J.
,
version 6" STD 87 RFC 8201 DOI 10.17487/RFC8201
, July 2017,
editor.org/info/rfc8201>

R. Hinden, Ed. "Path MTU Discovery for IP
<https://www.rfc-

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

 and

Trammell, B.
8546 DOI 10.17487/RFC8546
,
rfc8546>

.

,
, April 2019,

M. Kuehlewind "The Wire Image of a Network Protocol" RFC

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Fairhurst, G. Jones, T. Tüxen, M. Rüngeler, I.
,
Layer Path MTU Discovery for Datagram Transports" RFC 8899 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8899

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8899>

T. Völker "Packetization

, September 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

V. Smyslov "TCP Encapsulation of Internet Key Exchange Protocol

 and

Pauly, T.
(IKE) and IPsec Packets" RFC 9329 DOI 10.17487/RFC9329
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9329>

,
,

,

.

, November 2022,

 and

Fedyk, D.
9348 DOI 10.17487/RFC9348
,
rfc9348>

.

C. Hopps "A YANG Data Model for IP Traffic Flow Security" RFC

,

,

, January 2023,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Fedyk, D.
Security" RFC 9349 DOI 10.17487/RFC9349
editor.org/info/rfc9349>

E. Kinzie "Definitions of Managed Objects for IP Traffic Flow
<https://www.rfc-

, January 2023,

 and
,

,

,

.

Appendix A.  Example of an Encapsulated IP Packet Flow

Below, an example inner IP packet flow within the encapsulating tunnel packet stream is shown.
Notice how encapsulated IP packets can start and end anywhere, and more than one or less than
one may occur in a single encapsulating packet.

  Offset: 0        Offset: 100    Offset: 2000    Offset: 600
 [ ESP1  (1404) ][ ESP2  (1404) ][ ESP3  (1404) ][ ESP4  (1404) ]
 [--750--][--750--][60][-240-][--3000----------------------][pad]

Figure 11: Inner and Outer Packet Flow

Each outer encapsulating ESP space is a fixed size of 1404 octets, the first 4 octets of which
contain the AGGFRAG header. The encapsulated IP packet flow (lengths include the IP header
and payload) is as follows: a 750-octet packet, a 750-octet packet, a 60-octet packet, a 240-octet
packet, and a 3000-octet packet.

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

The BlockOffset values in the 4 AGGFRAG payload headers for this packet flow would thus be:
0, 100, 2000, and 600, respectively. The first encapsulating packet (ESP1) has a zero BlockOffset,
which points at the IP data block immediately following the AGGFRAG header. The following
packet's (ESP2) BlockOffset points inward 100 octets to the start of the 60-octet data block. The
third encapsulating packet (ESP3) contains the middle portion of the 3000-octet data block, so the
offset points past its end and into the fourth encapsulating packet. The fourth packet's (ESP4)
offset is 600, pointing at the padding that follows the completion of the continued 3000-octet
packet.

Appendix B.  A Send and Loss Event Rate Calculation

The current best practice indicates that congestion control
way. A TCP-friendly congestion control algorithm is described in
case (as with
main formula in the algorithm for the send rate is then as follows:

[RFC4342]

SHOULD

 be done in a TCP-friendly

[RFC5348]

. For this IP-TFS use

), the (fixed) packet size is used as the segment size for the algorithm. The

                              1
   X = -----------------------------------------------
       R * (sqrt(2*p/3) + 12*sqrt(3*p/8)*p*(1+32*p^2))

X is the send rate in packets per second, R is the RTT estimate, and p is the loss event rate (the
inverse of which is provided by the receiver).

In addition, the algorithm in
For IP-TFS, one

MAY

[RFC5348]

 also uses an X_recv value (the receiver's receive rate).

 set this value according to the sender's current tunnel send rate (X).

The IP-TFS receiver, having the RTT estimate from the sender, can use the same method as
described in
 to collect the loss intervals and calculate the loss event
rate value using the weighted average as indicated. The receiver communicates the inverse of
this value back to the sender in the AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD payload header field LossEventRate.

[RFC4342]

[RFC5348]

 and

The IP-TFS sender now has both the R and p values and can calculate the correct sending rate. If
following
when the IP-TFS SA is first established.

, the sender should also use the slow start mechanism described therein

[RFC5348]

Appendix C.  Comparisons of IP-TFS

C.1.  Comparing Overhead

For comparing overhead, the overhead of ESP for both normal and AGGFRAG tunnel packets
must be calculated, and so an algorithm for encryption and authentication must be chosen. For
the data below, AES-GCM-256 was selected. This leads to an IP+ESP overhead of 54.

  54 = 20 (IP) + 8 (ESPH) + 2 (ESPF) + 8 (IV) + 16 (ICV)

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

Additionally, for IP-TFS, non-congestion-control AGGFRAG_PAYLOAD headers were chosen,
which adds 4 octets, for a total overhead of 58.

C.1.1.  IP-TFS Overhead

For comparison, the overhead of an AGGFRAG payload is 58 octets per outer packet. Therefore,
the octet overhead per inner packet is 58 divided by the number of outer packets required
(fractions allowed). The overhead as a percentage of inner packet size is a constant based on the
Outer MTU size.

   OH = 58 / Outer Payload Size / Inner Packet Size
   OH % of Inner Packet Size = 100 * OH / Inner Packet Size
   OH % of Inner Packet Size = 5800 / Outer Payload Size

Type

IP-TFS

IP-TFS

IP-TFS

MTU

576

1500

9000

PSize

518

1442

8942

40

11.20%

4.02%

0.65%

576

11.20%

4.02%

0.65%

1500

11.20%

4.02%

0.65%

9000

11.20%

4.02%

0.65%

Table 2: IP-TFS Overhead as Percentage of
Inner Packet Size

C.1.2.  ESP with Padding Overhead

The overhead per inner packet for constant-send-rate-padded ESP (i.e., original IPsec TFC) is 36
octets plus any padding, unless fragmentation is required.

When fragmentation of the inner packet is required to fit in the outer IPsec packet, overhead is
the number of outer packets required to carry the fragmented inner packet times both the inner
IP Overhead (20) and the outer packet overhead (54) minus the initial inner IP Overhead plus any
required tail padding in the last encapsulation packet. The required tail padding is the number of
required packets times the difference of the Outer Payload Size and the IP Overhead minus the
Inner Payload Size. So:

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

  Inner Payload Size = IP Packet Size - IP Overhead
  Outer Payload Size = MTU - IPsec Overhead

                Inner Payload Size
  NF0 = ----------------------------------
         Outer Payload Size - IP Overhead

  NF = CEILING(NF0)

  OH = NF * (IP Overhead + IPsec Overhead)
       - IP Overhead
       + NF * (Outer Payload Size - IP Overhead)
       - Inner Payload Size

  OH = NF * (IPsec Overhead + Outer Payload Size)
       - (IP Overhead + Inner Payload Size)

  OH = NF * (IPsec Overhead + Outer Payload Size)
       - Inner Packet Size

C.2.  Overhead Comparison

The following tables collect the overhead values for some common L3 MTU sizes in order to
compare them. The first table is the number of octets of overhead for a given L3 MTU-sized
packet. The second table is the percentage of overhead in the same MTU-sized packet.

Type

ESP+Pad

ESP+Pad

ESP+Pad

IP-TFS

IP-TFS

IP-TFS

L3 MTU

576

PSize

40

128

256

518

576

1442

1500

522

482

394

266

4

576

286

228

8942

1426

9000

1368

1500

1446

1406

1318

1190

928

870

4

1500

1558

1500

9000

8946

8906

8818

8690

8428

8370

7504

7446

4

1500

9000

1442

8942

576

518

4.5

14.3

28.7

58.0

64.5

1.6

5.1

10.3

20.8

23.2

161.5

58.0

168.0

60.3

0.3

0.8

1.7

3.4

3.7

9.4

9.7

1001.2

359.7

58.0

9000

1007.7

362.0

58.4

Table 3: Overhead Comparison in Octets

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

Type

ESP+Pad

ESP+Pad

ESP+Pad

IP-TFS

IP-TFS

IP-TFS

MTU

576

PSize

522

1500

1446

9000

8946

576

518

1500

9000

1442

8942

40

128

256

518

576

1205.0%

3515.0%

22265.0% 11.20% 4.02%

0.65%

307.8%

1029.7%

6889.1%

11.20% 4.02%

0.65%

103.9%

464.8%

3394.5%

11.20% 4.02%

0.65%

0.8%

179.2%

1627.0%

11.20% 4.02%

0.65%

100.0%

151.0%

1453.1%

11.20% 4.02%

0.65%

1442

19.8%

0.3%

520.4%

11.20% 4.02%

0.65%

1500

15.2%

100.0%

496.4%

11.20% 4.02%

0.65%

8942

15.9%

17.4%

0.0%

11.20% 4.02%

0.65%

9000

15.2%

16.7%

100.0%

11.20% 4.02%

0.65%

Table 4: Overhead as Percentage of Inner Packet Size

C.3.  Comparing Available Bandwidth

Another way to compare the two solutions is to look at the amount of available bandwidth each
solution provides. The following sections consider and compare the percentage of available
bandwidth. For the sake of providing a well-understood baseline, normal (unencrypted) Ethernet
and normal ESP values are included.

C.3.1.  Ethernet

In order to calculate the available bandwidth, the per-packet overhead is calculated first. The
total overhead of Ethernet is 14+4 octets of header and Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) plus an
additional 20 octets of framing (preamble, start, and inter-packet gap), for a total of 38 octets.
Additionally, the minimum payload is 46 octets.

Size

E + P

E + P

E + P

IPTFS

IPTFS

IPTFS

Enet

ESP

MTU

590

1514

9014

590

1514

9014

any

any

OH

92

92

92

40

614

1538

9038

96

47

96

42

96

40

38

84

74

114

128

614

1538

9038

151

136

129

166

202

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

Size

E + P

E + P

E + P

IPTFS

IPTFS

IPTFS

Enet

ESP

MTU

590

1514

9014

590

1514

9014

any

any

OH

92

92

92

96

256

614

1538

9038

303

518

614

1538

9038

614

576

1228

1538

9038

682

96

273

552

614

96

258

523

582

38

74

294

330

574

610

614

650

1442

1842

1538

9038

1709

1538

1457

1498

1534

1500

1842

3076

9038

1777

1599

1516

1538

1574

8942

11052

10766

9038

10599

9537

9038

8998

9034

9000

11052

10766

18076

10667

9599

9096

9038

9074

Table 5: L2 Octets Per Packet

Size

E + P

E + P

E + P

IPTFS

IPTFS

IPTFS

Enet

ESP

MTU

590

1514

9014

590

1514

9014

any

any

OH

92

92

92

96

96

96

38

74

40

2.0M 0.8M 0.1M 26.4M 29.3M 30.9M 14.9M 11.0M

128

2.0M 0.8M 0.1M 8.2M

9.2M

9.7M

7.5M

6.2M

256

2.0M 0.8M 0.1M 4.1M

4.6M

4.8M

4.3M

3.8M

518

2.0M 0.8M 0.1M 2.0M

2.3M

2.4M

2.2M

2.1M

576

1.0M 0.8M 0.1M 1.8M

2.0M

2.1M

2.0M

1.9M

1442

678K

812K

138K

731K

812K

857K

844K

824K

1500

678K

406K

138K

703K

781K

824K

812K

794K

8942

113K

116K

138K

117K

131K

138K

139K

138K

9000

113K

116K

69K

117K

130K

137K

138K

137K

Table 6: Packets Per Second on 10G Ethernet

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

Size

E + P

E + P

E + P

IP-TFS

IP-TFS

IP-TFS

Enet

ESP

MTU

590

1514

9014

590

1514

9014

any

any

OH

92

92

92

96

96

96

38

74

40

6.51%

2.60%

0.44%

84.36% 93.76% 98.94% 47.62% 35.09%

128

20.85% 8.32%

1.42%

84.36% 93.76% 98.94% 77.11% 63.37%

256

41.69% 16.64% 2.83%

84.36% 93.76% 98.94% 87.07% 77.58%

518

84.36% 33.68% 5.73%

84.36% 93.76% 98.94% 93.17% 87.50%

576

46.91% 37.45% 6.37%

84.36% 93.76% 98.94% 93.81% 88.62%

1442

78.28% 93.76% 15.95% 84.36% 93.76% 98.94% 97.43% 95.12%

1500

81.43% 48.76% 16.60% 84.36% 93.76% 98.94% 97.53% 95.30%

8942

80.91% 83.06% 98.94% 84.36% 93.76% 98.94% 99.58% 99.18%

9000

81.43% 83.60% 49.79% 84.36% 93.76% 98.94% 99.58% 99.18%

Table 7: Percentage of Bandwidth on 10G Ethernet

A sometimes unexpected result of using an AGGFRAG tunnel (or any packet aggregating tunnel)
is that, for small- to medium-sized packets, the available bandwidth is actually greater than plain
Ethernet. This is due to the reduction in Ethernet framing overhead. This increased bandwidth is
paid for with an increase in latency. This latency is the time to send the unrelated octets in the
outer tunnel frame. The following table illustrates the latency for some common values on a 10G
Ethernet link. The table also includes latency introduced by padding if using ESP with padding.

Size

ESP+Pad

ESP+Pad

IP-TFS

IP-TFS

MTU

1500

9000

1500

9000

40

1.12 us

7.12 us

1.17 us

7.17 us

128

1.05 us

7.05 us

1.10 us

7.10 us

256

0.95 us

6.95 us

1.00 us

7.00 us

518

0.74 us

6.74 us

0.79 us

6.79 us

576

0.70 us

6.70 us

0.74 us

6.74 us

1442

0.00 us

6.00 us

0.05 us

6.05 us

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9347

IP Traffic Flow Security

January 2023

Size

ESP+Pad

ESP+Pad

IP-TFS

IP-TFS

MTU

1500

9000

1500

9000

1500

1.20 us

5.96 us

0.00 us

6.00 us

Table 8: Added Latency

Notice that the latency values are very similar between the two solutions; however, whereas IP-
TFS provides for constant high bandwidth, in some cases even exceeding plain Ethernet, ESP
with padding often greatly reduces available bandwidth.

Acknowledgements

Michael Richardson Sean Turner Valery Smyslov

,

 for help in reviewing and editing this work. We would also
 for reviews

Tero Kivinen

, and

We would like to thank
like to thank
and many suggestions for improvements, as well as
and suggested improvements.

Don Fedyk
,

Joseph Touch

 for the transport area review

Contributors

The following person made significant contributions to this document.

Lou Berger
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.
Email:

 lberger@labn.net

Author's Address

Christian Hopps
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.
Email:

 chopps@chopps.org

Hopps

Standards Track

Page 31

