Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9388
8008
Standards Track
July 2023
2070-1721
N. Sopher
Qwilt

S. Mishra
Verizon

RFC 9388
Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI)
Footprint Types: Country Subdivision Code and
Footprint Union

Abstract

Open Caching architecture is a use case of Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) in
which the commercial Content Delivery Network (CDN) is the upstream CDN (uCDN) and the ISP
caching layer serves as the downstream CDN (dCDN). RFC 8006 defines footprint types that are
used for footprint objects as part of the Metadata interface (MI). The footprint types are also used
for the Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement interface (FCI) as defined in RFC 8008. This
document defines two new footprint types. The first footprint type defined is an ISO 3166-2
country subdivision code. Defining this country subdivision code improves granularity for
delegation as compared to the ISO 3166-1 country code footprint type defined in RFC 8006. The
ISO 3166-2 country subdivision code is also added as a new entity domain type in the "ALTO
Entity Domain Types" registry defined in Section 7.4 of RFC 9241. The second footprint type
defines a footprint union to aggregate footprint objects. This allows for additive semantics over
the narrowing semantics defined in Appendix B of RFC 8008 and therefore updates RFC 8008.
The two new footprint types are based on the requirements raised by Open Caching but are also
applicable to CDNI use cases in general.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9388
.

Sopher & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9388

CDNI Additional Footprint Types

July 2023

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

1.2.  Requirements Language

2.  CDNI Metadata Additional Footprint Types

2.1.  CDNI Metadata "subdivisioncode" Footprint Type

2.1.1.  CDNI Metadata "subdivisioncode" Data Type

2.1.1.1.  CDNI Metadata "subdivisioncode" Data Type Description

2.1.2.  CDNI Metadata "subdivisioncode" Footprint Type Description

2.2.  CDNI Metadata "footprintunion" Footprint Type

2.2.1.  CDNI Metadata "footprintunion" Data Type

2.2.2.  CDNI Metadata "footprintunion" Footprint Type Description

3.  ALTO Property Map Service Entity

3.1.  SUBDIVISIONCODE Domain

3.1.1.  Entity Domain Type

3.1.2.  Domain-Specific Entity Identifiers

3.1.3.  Hierarchy and Inheritance

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  CDNI Metadata Footprint Types

4.2.  ALTO Entity Domain Types

Sopher & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9388

CDNI Additional Footprint Types

July 2023

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[SVTA]

[OCWG]

 is a global association that works to solve

The Streaming Video Technology Alliance
streaming video challenges in an effort to improve end-user experience and adoption. The Open
Caching Working Group
 of the SVTA is focused on the delegation of video delivery
requests from commercial Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) to a caching layer at the ISP's
network. Open Caching architecture is a specific use case of Content Delivery Network
Interconnection (CDNI) where the commercial CDN is the upstream CDN (uCDN) and the ISP
caching layer is the downstream CDN (dCDN). The
Specification" [OC-RR]
for its provisioning. This document defines and registers CDNI Footprint and Capabilities objects
[RFC8008]

 defines the Request Routing process and the interfaces that are required

 that are required for Open Caching Request Routing.

"Open Caching Request Routing Functional

For consistency with other CDNI documents, this document follows the CDNI convention of using
"uCDN" and "dCDN" to represent the commercial CDN and ISP caching layer, respectively.

This document registers two CDNI Metadata footprint types (
defined objects:

Section 7.2 of [RFC8006]

) for the

•

Country subdivision code footprint type (e.g., for a dCDN advertising a footprint that is
specific to a state in the United States of America)

•

Footprint union footprint type (for a dCDN advertising a footprint that consists of a group
built from multiple footprint types, e.g., both IPv4 and IPv6 client subnets)

1.1.  Terminology

The following terms are used throughout this document:

CDN:

Content Delivery Network

Additionally, this document reuses the terminology defined in
and

. Specifically, we use the following CDNI abbreviations:

[RFC8008]

[RFC6707] [RFC7336] [RFC8006]
,

,

,

uCDN:

upstream CDN (see

[RFC7336]

)

Sopher & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9388

CDNI Additional Footprint Types

July 2023

dCDN: downstream CDN (see

[RFC7336]

)

1.2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  CDNI Metadata Additional Footprint Types

 describes the Footprint & Capabilities Advertisement interface (FCI)

Section 5 of [RFC8008]
Capability Advertisement object, which includes an array of CDNI footprint objects. Each such
object has a footprint type and a footprint value, as described in
document defines additional footprint types, beyond those mentioned in

Section 4.2.2.2 of [RFC8006]
[RFC8006]
.

. This

2.1.  CDNI Metadata "subdivisioncode" Footprint Type

 specifies the "countrycode" footprint type for listing

Section 4.3.8 of [RFC8006]
alpha-2 codes. Using footprint objects of this type, one can define an FCI Capability
Advertisement object footprint constraint that matches a specific country. This document defines
the "subdivisioncode" simple data type as well as a footprint type, allowing the dCDN to define
constraints that match geographic areas with better granularity, specifically using the
[ISO3166-2]

 country subdivision codes.

[ISO3166-1]

2.1.1.  CDNI Metadata "subdivisioncode" Data Type

The "subdivisioncode" data type specified in Section 2.1.1.1 describes a country-specific
[ISO3166-2]
subdivision using a code as defined in
described in

 that are used as properties of CDNI Metadata objects.

Section 4.3 of [RFC8006]

. The data type is added to the list of data types

2.1.1.1.  CDNI Metadata "subdivisioncode" Data Type Description

[ISO3166-2]

An
[ISO3166-2]
up to three alphanumeric characters.

, the first part is the

 code in lowercase. Each code consists of two parts separated by a hyphen. As per
 code of the country and the second part is a string of

[ISO3166-1]

Type:

String

Example country subdivision codes:

•

"ca-on"

•

"us-ny"

2.1.2.  CDNI Metadata "subdivisioncode" Footprint Type Description

The "subdivisioncode" simple data type specified in Section 2.1.1 is added to the data types listed
Section 4.2.2.2 of [RFC8006]
.
as footprint types in

Sopher & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9388

CDNI Additional Footprint Types

July 2023

Figure 1 is an example using a footprint object of type "subdivisioncode". The footprint object in
this example creates a constraint that matches clients in the state of either New Jersey or New
 codes "US-NJ" and "US-NY", respectively).
York, USA (ISO

[ISO3166-2]

{
  "capabilities": [
    {
      "capability-type": <CDNI capability object type>,
      "capability-value": <CDNI capability object>,
      "footprints": [
          {
              "footprint-type": "subdivisioncode",
              "footprint-value": ["us-nj", "us-ny"]
          }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 1: Illustration of Country Subdivision Code Footprint Advertisement

2.2.  CDNI Metadata "footprintunion" Footprint Type

Section 5 of [RFC8008]

As described in
of CDNI footprint objects. Appendix B of
Advertisement such that multiple footprint constraints are additive. This implies that the
advertisement of different footprint types narrows the dCDN's candidacy cumulatively.

 specifies the semantics for Footprint

, the FCI Capability Advertisement object includes an array

[RFC8008]

[RFC8006]

 specify the "ipv4cidr" and the "ipv6cidr" footprint types,
Sections 4.3.5 and 4.3.6 of
respectively, for listing IP unscoped address blocks. Using footprint objects of these types, one
can define FCI Capability Advertisement object footprint constraints that match either IPv4 or
IPv6 clients, but not both. This is due to the described "narrowing" semantic of the Footprint
Objects array, as described in Appendix B of
together to create a footprint constraint that matches IPv4 clients with IPv6 clients.

, that prevents the usage of these objects

[RFC8008]

Figure 2 is an example attempting to create an object that matches IPv4 clients of subnet
"192.0.2.0/24" as well as IPv6 clients of subnet "2001:db8::/32". Such a definition results in an
empty list of clients, as the constraints are additives and a client address cannot be both IPv4 and
IPv6.

Sopher & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9388

CDNI Additional Footprint Types

July 2023

{
  "capabilities": [
    {
      "capability-type": <CDNI capability object type>,
      "capability-value": <CDNI capability object>,
      "footprints": [
          {
              "footprint-type": "ipv4cidr",
              "footprint-value": ["192.0.2.0/24"]
          },
          {
              "footprint-type": "ipv6cidr",
              "footprint-value": ["2001:db8::/32"]
          }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 2: Example of Narrowing Semantic Illustrating Advertisement of a Null Footprint

To overcome the described limitation and allow a list of footprint constraints that match both
IPv4 and IPv6 client subnets, this document defines the "footprintunion" footprint type. This
footprint type allows the collection of multiple footprint-objects into a unified object. Therefore,
it resolves the above limitation and can be particularly applicable to unify semantically related
objects: for example, an IPv4 CIDR together with an IPv6 CIDR or a country code together with a
country subdivision code.

Note: to avoid implementation complexity, a "footprintunion"
as a value. As a union of unions is simply a union, this syntactic restriction does not result with
any semantic limitation.

 list any "footprintunion"

MUST NOT

2.2.1.  CDNI Metadata "footprintunion" Data Type

The "footprintunion" data type is based on the footprint object already defined in
of [RFC8006]
where the footprint objects

. The footprint value for a "footprintunion" object is an array of footprint objects,

 be of any footprint type other than "footprintunion".

Section 4.2.2.2

MUST

2.2.2.  CDNI Metadata "footprintunion" Footprint Type Description

The "footprintunion" data type specified in Section 2.2.1 is added to the data types listed as
Section 4.2.2.2 of [RFC8006]
.
footprint types in

Figure 3 is an example using a footprint union combining both IPv4 and IPv6 client subnets.

Sopher & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9388

CDNI Additional Footprint Types

July 2023

{
  "capabilities": [
    {
      "capability-type": <CDNI capability object type>,
      "capability-value": <CDNI capability object>,
      "footprints": [
        {
          "footprint-type": "footprintunion",
          "footprint-value": [
            {
              "footprint-type": "ipv4cidr",
              "footprint-value": ["192.0.2.0/24"]
            },
            {
              "footprint-type": "ipv6cidr",
              "footprint-value": ["2001:db8::/32"]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 3: Example of an Advertisement of Footprint Union for Multiple Classless Inter-Domain
Routing (CIDR) Footprint Types

The footprint union also enables composing of footprint objects based on the country code and
country subdivision code. In Figure 4, we create a constraint covering autonomous system 64496
within the USA (ISO alpha-2 code "US" as described in
[ISO3166-2]
Canada (ISO code "CA-ON" as described in

) and the Ontario province of

[ISO3166-1]
).

Sopher & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9388

CDNI Additional Footprint Types

July 2023

{
  "capabilities": [
    {
      "capability-type": <CDNI capability object type>,
      "capability-value": <CDNI capability object>,
      "footprints": [
        {
          "footprint-type": "asn",
          "footprint-value": ["as64496"]
        },
        {
          "footprint-type": "footprintunion",
          "footprint-value": [
            {
              "footprint-type": "countrycode",
              "footprint-value": ["us"]
            },
            {
              "footprint-type": "subdivisioncode",
              "footprint-value": ["ca-on"]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 4: Example of an Advertisement of Footprint Union for Multiple Geographical Footprint
Types

3.  ALTO Property Map Service Entity

 describes how to represent footprint objects as entities in the ALTO

Section 6 of [RFC9241]
property map. The approach is to represent the footprint type as an entity domain type of the
ALTO entity and the footprint value as its domain-specific identifier.
the representation of footprint objects of types "asn" and "countrycode". Here, we extend this
definition to the "subdivisioncode" footprint type.

[RFC9241]

 further refers to

3.1.  SUBDIVISIONCODE Domain

The SUBDIVISIONCODE domain associates property values that define codes for the names of the
principal subdivisions.

3.1.1.  Entity Domain Type

The entity domain type of the SUBDIVISIONCODE domain is "subdivisioncode" (in lowercase).

Sopher & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9388

CDNI Additional Footprint Types

July 2023

3.1.2.  Domain-Specific Entity Identifiers

The entity identifier of an entity in a SUBDIVISIONCODE is encoded as an alpha-2
country code, followed by a separator and up to three alphanumeric characters.

[ISO3166-1]

3.1.3.  Hierarchy and Inheritance

There is no hierarchy or inheritance for properties associated with country subdivision codes.

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  CDNI Metadata Footprint Types

Section 7.2 of [RFC8006]
"Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) Parameters" registry.

 specifies the "CDNI Metadata Footprint Types" subregistry within the

This document registers two footprint types in that subregistry as defined in Sections 2.1 and 2.2:

Footprint Type

Description

subdivisioncode

ISO 3166-2 country subdivision code: alpha-2 country code,
followed by a hyphen-minus and up to 3 characters from A-
Z;0-9 as a code within the country

Reference

RFC 9388

footprintunion

A combination of other footprint objects

RFC 9388

Table 1: Additions to the CDNI Metadata Footprint Types Subregistry

4.2.  ALTO Entity Domain Types

Section 12.3 of [RFC9240]
"Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) Protocol" registry.

 creates the "ALTO Entity Domain Types" subregistry within the

This document registers an additional ALTO Entity Domain Type within that subregistry:

Identifier

Entity
Identifier
Encoding

Hierarchy and
Inheritance

Media Type of
Defining
Resource

Mapping to
ALTO Address
Type

subdivisioncode

See RFC 9388,
Section 3.1.2

None

None

false

Table 2: Addition to the ALTO Entity Domain Types Subregistry

Sopher & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9388

CDNI Additional Footprint Types

July 2023

5.  Security Considerations

This specification is in accordance with "Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI)
Metadata" and "Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) Request Routing: Footprint
and Capabilities Semantics". As such, it is subject to the security and confidentiality
considerations as defined in

Section 8 of [RFC8006]

Section 7 of [RFC8008]

, respectively.

 and in

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[ISO3166-1]

[ISO3166-2]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8006]

[RFC8008]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9240]

[RFC9241]

,

ISO "Codes for the representation of names of countries and their subdivisions
-- Part 1: Country code" ISO 3166-1:2020 Edition 4
,
www.iso.org/standard/72482.html>

, August 2020,

<https://

,

.

,

ISO "Codes for the representation of names of countries and their subdivisions
-- Part 2: Country subdivision code" ISO 3166-2:2020 Edition 4
<https://www.iso.org/standard/72483.html>

, August 2020,

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Niven-Jenkins, B. Murray, R. Caulfield, M.
Network Interconnection (CDNI) Metadata" RFC 8006 DOI 10.17487/RFC8006
December 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8006>

K. Ma "Content Delivery

, and
,

,
,

,

.

,

,

,

Seedorf, J. Peterson, J. Previdi, S. van Brandenburg, R.
Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI) Request Routing: Footprint and
Capabilities Semantics" RFC 8008 DOI 10.17487/RFC8008
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8008>

, December 2016,

K. Ma "Content

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Roome, W. Randriamasy, S. Yang, Y. Zhang, J.
Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO): Entity Property Maps" RFC 9240
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC9240

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9240>

K. Gao "An Extension for

, July 2022,

, and

.

,

,

,

,

,

Seedorf, J. Yang, Y. Ma, K. Peterson, J.
,
Interconnection (CDNI) Footprint and Capabilities Advertisement Using
Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO)" RFC 9241 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9241

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9241>

, July 2022,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

J. Zhang "Content Delivery Network

6.2.  Informative References

Sopher & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9388

CDNI Additional Footprint Types

July 2023

[OC-RR]

[OCWG]

[RFC6707]

[RFC7336]

[SVTA]

,

,
Y. Gressel "Open Caching - Request Routing Functional

Finkelman, O., Ed. Zurat, B. Sahar, D. Klein, E. Hofmann, J. Ma, K.J. Stock, M.
Mishra, S.
,
, and
Specification" Version 2.0
, 15 January 2021,
,
cache-request-routing-functional-specification/>

<https://www.svta.org/product/open-

,

,

,

,

.

,

SVTA "Open Caching" <https://opencaching.svta.org/>

,

,

.

N. Bitar "Content Distribution Network
Niven-Jenkins, B. Le Faucheur, F.
,
Interconnection (CDNI) Problem Statement" RFC 6707 DOI 10.17487/RFC6707
,
September 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6707>

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Peterson, L. Davie, B.
Distribution Network Interconnection (CDNI)" RFC 7336 DOI 10.17487/RFC7336
,
August 2014,

R. van Brandenburg, Ed. "Framework for Content
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7336>

, and

,

,

.

SVTA "Streaming Video Technology Alliance" <https://www.svta.org/>

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to express their gratitude to
guidance and reviews throughout the development of this document. We would also like to thank
all the Area Directors for their review and feedback in improving this document.

Ori Finkelman

Kevin J. Ma

 for their

 and

Authors' Addresses

Nir B. Sopher
Qwilt
6, Ha'harash
Hod HaSharon 4524079
Israel
Email:

 nir@apache.org

Sanjay Mishra
Verizon
13100 Columbia Pike
Silver Spring MD 20904
United States of America
Email:

,

 sanjay.mishra@verizon.com

Sopher & Mishra

Standards Track

Page 11

