Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9081
6514
Standards Track
July 2021
2070-1721
Z. Zhang
Juniper Networks

L. Giuliano
Juniper Networks

RFC 9081
Interoperation between Multicast Virtual Private
Network (MVPN) and Multicast Source Directory
Protocol (MSDP) Source-Active Routes

Abstract

This document speciﬁes the procedures for interoperation between Multicast Virtual Private
Network (MVPN) Source-Active (SA) routes and customer Multicast Source Discovery Protocol
(MSDP) SA routes, which is useful for MVPN provider networks oﬀering services to customers
with an existing MSDP infrastructure. Without the procedures described in this document, VPN-
speciﬁc MSDP sessions are required among the Provider Edge (PE) routers that are customer
MSDP peers. This document updates RFC 6514.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9081

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Zhang & Giuliano

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9081

MVPN and MSDP SA Interoperation

July 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  MVPN RPT-SPT Mode

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Requirements Language

3.  Speciﬁcation

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

14 ( "Supporting PIM-SM without Inter-Site Shared C-Trees")

Section
procedures for MVPN PEs to discover (C-S,C-G) via MVPN Source-Active A-D routes and then send
Source Tree Join (C-S,C-G) C-multicast routes towards the ingress PEs to establish shortest path
trees (SPTs) for customer Any-Source Multicast (ASM) ﬂows for which they have downstream
receivers. (C-*,C-G) C-multicast routes are not sent among the PEs, so inter-site shared C-Trees are
not used, and the method is generally referred to as "spt-only" mode.

 speciﬁes the

[RFC6514]

 of

With this mode, the MVPN Source-Active routes are functionally similar to MSDP Source-Active
messages. For a VPN, one or more of the PEs, say PE1, either acts as a C-RP and learns of (C-S,C-G)
via PIM Register messages or has MSDP sessions with some MSDP peers and learns of (C-S,C-G)
via MSDP SA messages. In either case, PE1 will then originate MVPN SA routes for other PEs to
learn (C-S,C-G).

Zhang & Giuliano

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9081

MVPN and MSDP SA Interoperation

July 2021

[RFC6514]

 only speciﬁes that a PE receiving the MVPN SA routes, say PE2, will advertise Source

[RFC6514]
Tree Join (C-S,C-G) C-multicast routes if it has corresponding (C-*,C-G) state learnt from its
Customer Edge (CE). PE2 may also have MSDP sessions for the VPN with other C-RPs at its site,
but
 does not specify that PE2 advertises MSDP SA messages to those MSDP peers for
the (C-S,C-G) that it learns via MVPN SA routes. PE2 would need to have an MSDP session with
PE1 (that advertised the MVPN SA messages) to learn the sources via MSDP SA messages for it to
advertise the MSDP SA to its local peers. To make things worse, unless blocked by policy control,
PE2 would in turn advertise MVPN SA routes because of those MSDP SA messages that it receives
from PE1, which are redundant and unnecessary. Also notice that the PE1-PE2 MSDP session is
VPN speciﬁc (i.e., only for a single VPN), while the BGP sessions over which the MVPN routes are
advertised are not.

If a PE does advertise MSDP SA messages based on received MVPN SA routes, the VPN-speciﬁc
MSDP sessions with other PEs are no longer needed. Additionally, this MVPN/MSDP SA
interoperation has the following inherent beneﬁts for a BGP-based solution.

•

MSDP SA refreshes are replaced with BGP hard state.

•

Route reﬂectors can be used instead of having peer-to-peer sessions.

•

VPN extranet
VPNs with ﬂexible policy control.

[RFC2764]

 mechanisms can be used to propagate (C-S,C-G) information across

While MSDP Source-Active routes contain the source, group, and RP addresses of a given
multicast ﬂow, MVPN Source-Active routes only contain the source and group. MSDP requires the
RP address information in order to perform MSDP peer Reverse Path Forwarding (RPF).
Therefore, this document describes how to convey the RP address information into the MVPN
Source-Active route using an Extended Community so this information can be shared with an
existing MSDP infrastructure.

The procedures apply to Global Table Multicast (GTM)

[RFC7716]

 as well.

1.1.  MVPN RPT-SPT Mode

13 ("Switching from a Shared C-Tree to a Source C-Tree")

For comparison, another method of supporting customer ASM is generally referred to as "rpt-spt"
mode. Section
 speciﬁes the
MVPN SA procedures for that mode, but those SA routes are a replacement for PIM-ASM assert
and (s,g,rpt) prune mechanisms, not for source discovery purposes. MVPN/MSDP SA
interoperation for the "rpt-spt" mode is outside the scope of this document. In the rest of the
document, the "spt-only" mode is assumed.

[RFC6514]

 of

2.  Terminology

Familiarity with MVPN
assumed. Some terminology is listed below for convenience.

[RFC6513] [RFC6514]

 and MSDP

[RFC3618]

 protocols and procedures is

ASM:

Any-Source Multicast

Zhang & Giuliano

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9081

MVPN and MSDP SA Interoperation

July 2021

SPT:

RPT:

C-S:

C-G:

C-RP:

source-speciﬁc Shortest Path Tree

Rendezvous Point Tree

a multicast source address, identifying a multicast source located at a VPN
customer site

a multicast group address used by a VPN customer

a multicast Rendezvous Point for a VPN customer

C-multicast:

a multicast for a VPN customer

EC:

GTM:

Extended Community

Global Table Multicast, i.e., a multicast in the default or global routing table vs. a
VPN Routing and Forwarding (VRF) table

2.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Speciﬁcation

The MVPN PEs that act as customer RPs or have one or more MSDP sessions in a VPN (or the
global table in case of GTM) are treated as an MSDP mesh group for that VPN (or the global
table). In the rest of the document, it is referred to as the PE mesh group. This PE mesh group
 include other MSDP speakers and is integrated into the rest of the MSDP
MUST NOT
infrastructure for the VPN (or the global table) following normal MSDP rules and practices.

 for the "spt-
When an MVPN PE advertises an MVPN SA route following procedures in
only" mode, it
 attach an "MVPN SA RP-address Extended Community". This is a Transitive
IPv4-Address-Speciﬁc Extended Community. The Local Administrator ﬁeld is set to zero, and the
Global Administrator ﬁeld is set to an RP address determined as the following:

[RFC6514]

MUST

•

If the (C-S,C-G) is learnt as a result of the PIM Register mechanism, the local RP address for
the C-G is used.

•

If the (C-S,C-G) is learnt as a result of incoming MSDP SA messages, the RP address in the
selected MSDP SA message is used.

[RFC6514]

In addition to the procedures in
, an MVPN PE may be provisioned to generate MSDP
SA messages from received MVPN SA routes, with or without local policy control. If a received
MVPN SA route triggers an MSDP SA message, the MVPN SA route is treated as if a corresponding
MSDP SA message was received from within the PE mesh group and normal MSDP procedure is
followed (e.g., an MSDP SA message is advertised to other MSDP peers outside the PE mesh
group). The (S,G) information comes from the (C-S,C-G) encoding in the MVPN SA Network Layer

Zhang & Giuliano

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9081

MVPN and MSDP SA Interoperation

July 2021

Reachability Information (NLRI), and the RP address comes from the "MVPN SA RP-address EC"
mentioned above. If the received MVPN SA route does not have the EC (this could be from a
legacy PE that does not have the capability to attach the EC), the local RP address for the C-G is
used. In that case, it is possible that the RP inserted into the MSDP SA message for the C-G is
actually the MSDP peer to which the generated MSDP message is advertised, causing the peer to
discard it due to RPF failure. To get around that problem, the peer
accept the MSDP SA message.

 use local policy to

SHOULD

MAY

 treat only the best MVPN SA route selected by the BGP route selection process

An MVPN PE
(instead of all MVPN SA routes) for a given (C-S,C-G) as a received MSDP SA message (and
advertise the corresponding MSDP message). In that case, if the selected best MVPN SA route
does not have the "MVPN SA RP-address EC" but another route for the same (C-S, C-G) does, then
the next best route with the EC
with the EC changes, a new MSDP SA message is advertised if the RP address determined
according to the newly selected MVPN SA route is diﬀerent from before. The MSDP SA state
associated with the previously advertised MSDP SA message with the older RP address will be
timed out.

 be chosen. As a result, if/when the best MVPN SA route

SHOULD

4.  Security Considerations

 speciﬁes the procedure for a PE to generate an MVPN SA upon discovering a (C-S,C-G)

[RFC6514]
ﬂow (e.g., via a received MSDP SA message) in a VPN. This document extends this capability in
the reverse direction -- upon receiving an MVPN SA route in a VPN, generate a corresponding
MSDP SA and advertise it to MSDP peers in the same VPN. As such, the capabilities speciﬁed in
this document introduce no additional security considerations beyond those already speciﬁed in
[RFC6514]
eliminate the control message ampliﬁcation that exists today where VPN-speciﬁc MSDP sessions
are required among the PEs that are customer MSDP peers, which lead to redundant messages
(MSDP SAs and MVPN SAs) being carried in parallel between PEs.

. Moreover, the capabilities speciﬁed in this document actually

[RFC3618]

 and

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA registered the following in the "Transitive IPv4-Address-Speciﬁc Extended Community Sub-
Types" registry:

Value Description

0x20

MVPN SA RP-address Extended Community

Table 1

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

Zhang & Giuliano

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9081

MVPN and MSDP SA Interoperation

July 2021

[RFC2119]

[RFC3618]

[RFC6514]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Fenner, B., Ed.
,
 and
RFC 3618 DOI 10.17487/RFC3618
, October 2003,
rfc3618>

,
.

D. Meyer, Ed. "Multicast Source Discovery Protocol (MSDP)"

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Aggarwal, R. Rosen, E. Morin, T.
Procedures for Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6514 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6514

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6514>

Y. Rekhter "BGP Encodings and

, February 2012,

, and

,
,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

6.2.  Informative References

[RFC2764]

[RFC6513]

[RFC7716]

,

,
Gleeson, B. Lin, A. Heinanen, J. Armitage, G.
,
Based Virtual Private Networks" RFC 2764 DOI 10.17487/RFC2764
2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2764>

, and

.

,

,

,

A. Malis "A Framework for IP

, February

 and

Rosen, E., Ed.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6513
rfc6513>

.

R. Aggarwal, Ed. "Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6513

,

,

,

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Zhang, J. Giuliano, L. Rosen, E., Ed. Subramanian, K.
D. Pacella "Global
,
Table Multicast with BGP Multicast VPN (BGP-MVPN) Procedures" RFC 7716
DOI 10.17487/RFC7716
rfc7716>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2015,

, and

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors thank
Mishra Qin Wu
,
document.

Eric Rosen Vinod Kumar Yajun Liu Stig Venaas Mankamana Mishra Gyan

,

,

,

,

,

, and

Jia He

 for their reviews, comments, questions, and suggestions for this

Authors' Addresses

Zhaohui Zhang
Juniper Networks
Email:

 zzhang@juniper.net

Lenny Giuliano
Juniper Networks
Email:

 lenny@juniper.net

Zhang & Giuliano

Standards Track

Page 6

