Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9143
8843
3264, 5888, 7941
Standards Track
February 2022
2070-1721
C. Holmberg
Ericsson

H. Alvestrand
Google

C. Jennings
Cisco

RFC 9143
Negotiating Media Multiplexing Using the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)

Abstract

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a new Session Description Protocol (SDP) Grouping Framework
extension called 'BUNDLE'. The extension can be used with the SDP oﬀer/answer mechanism to
negotiate the usage of a single transport (5-tuple) for sending and receiving media described by
multiple SDP media descriptions ("m=" sections). Such transport is referred to as a "BUNDLE
transport", and the media is referred to as "bundled media". The "m=" sections that use the
BUNDLE transport form a BUNDLE group.

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a new RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Source Description (SDES) item and
a new RTP header extension.

This speciﬁcation updates RFCs 3264, 5888, and 7941.

This speciﬁcation obsoletes RFC 8843.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9143

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modiﬁcations of
such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modiﬁed
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Background

1.2.  BUNDLE Mechanism

1.3.  Protocol Extensions

1.4.  Changes from RFC 8843

2.  Terminology

3.  Conventions

4.  Applicability Statement

5.  SDP Grouping Framework BUNDLE Extension

6.  SDP 'bundle-only' Attribute

7.  SDP Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

7.1.  Generic SDP Considerations

7.1.1.  Connection Data ("c=")

7.1.2.  Bandwidth ("b=")

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

7.1.3.  Attributes ("a=")

7.2.  Generating the Initial BUNDLE Oﬀer

7.2.1.  Suggesting the Oﬀerer-Tagged "m=" Section

7.2.2.  Example: Initial BUNDLE Oﬀer

7.3.  Generating the SDP Answer

7.3.1.  Answerer Selection of Tagged "m=" Sections

7.3.2.  Moving a Media Description Out of a BUNDLE Group

7.3.3.  Rejecting a Media Description in a BUNDLE Group

7.3.4.  Example: SDP Answer

7.3.5.  RFC 8843 Considerations

7.4.  Oﬀerer Processing of the SDP Answer

7.4.1.  RFC 8843 Considerations

7.5.  Modifying the Session

7.5.1.  Adding a Media Description to a BUNDLE Group

7.5.2.  Moving a Media Description Out of a BUNDLE Group

7.5.3.  Disabling a Media Description in a BUNDLE Group

7.6.  3PCC Considerations

8.  Protocol Identiﬁcation

8.1.  STUN, DTLS, and SRTP

9.  RTP Considerations

9.1.  Single RTP Session

9.1.1.  Payload Type (PT) Value Reuse

9.2.  Associating RTP/RTCP Streams with the Correct SDP Media Description

9.3.  RTP/RTCP Multiplexing

9.3.1.  SDP Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

10. ICE Considerations

11. DTLS Considerations

12. RTP Header Extensions Consideration

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

13. Updates to RFC 3264

13.1.  Original Text from RFC 3264, Section 5.1, Paragraph 2

13.2.  New Text Replacing RFC 3264, Section 5.1, Paragraph 2

13.3.  Original Text from RFC 3264, Section 8.4, Paragraph 6

13.4.  New Text Replacing RFC 3264, Section 8.4, Paragraph 6

14. Update to RFC 5888

14.1.  Original Text from RFC 5888, Section 9.2, Paragraph 3

14.2.  New Text Replacing RFC 5888, Section 9.2, Paragraph 3

15. RTP/RTCP Extensions for identiﬁcation-tag Transport

15.1.  RTCP MID SDES Item

15.2.  RTP SDES Header Extension for MID

16. IANA Considerations

16.1.  SDES Item

16.2.  RTP SDES Header Extension URI

16.3.  SDP Attribute

16.4.  SDP Group Semantics

17. Security Considerations

18. Examples

18.1.  Example: Tagged "m=" Section Selections

18.2.  Example: BUNDLE Group Rejected

18.3.  Example: Oﬀerer Adds a Media Description to a BUNDLE Group

18.4.  Example: Oﬀerer Moves a Media Description Out of a BUNDLE Group

18.5.  Example: Oﬀerer Disables a Media Description within a BUNDLE Group

19. References

19.1.  Normative References

19.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Design Considerations

A.1.  UA Interoperability

A.2.  Usage of Port Number Value Zero

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

A.3.  B2BUA and Proxy Interoperability

A.3.1.  Traﬃc Policing

A.3.2.  Bandwidth Allocation

A.4.  Candidate Gathering

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Background

When the SDP oﬀer/answer mechanism
multimedia communication sessions, if separate transports (5-tuples) are negotiated for each
individual media stream, each transport consumes additional resources (especially when
Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)
use a single transport for multiple media streams.

 is used to negotiate the establishment of

 is used). For this reason, it is attractive to

[RFC8445]

[RFC3264]

1.2.  BUNDLE Mechanism

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a way to use a single transport (BUNDLE transport) for sending and
receiving media (bundled media) described by multiple SDP media descriptions ("m=" sections).
The address:port combination used by an endpoint for sending and receiving bundled media is
referred to as the "BUNDLE address:port". The set of SDP attributes that are applied to each "m="
section within a BUNDLE group is referred to as "BUNDLE attributes". The same BUNDLE
transport is used for sending and receiving bundled media, which means that the symmetric
Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) mechanism
media.

 is always used for RTP-based bundled

[RFC4961]

 extension called 'BUNDLE'.
This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a new SDP Grouping Framework
The extension can be used with the Session Description Protocol (SDP) oﬀer/answer mechanism
 to negotiate which "m=" sections will become part of a BUNDLE group. In addition, the
[RFC3264]
oﬀerer and answerer
addresses:ports (oﬀerer BUNDLE address:port and answerer BUNDLE address:port) and the set of
BUNDLE attributes (oﬀerer BUNDLE attributes and answerer BUNDLE attributes) that will be
applied to each "m=" section within the BUNDLE group.

 use the BUNDLE extension to negotiate the BUNDLE

[RFC5888]

[RFC3264]

The use of a BUNDLE transport allows the usage of a single set of ICE candidates
whole BUNDLE group.

[RFC8445]

 for the

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

 only be associated with a single BUNDLE group. If an SDP
A given BUNDLE address:port
oﬀer or SDP answer (hereafter referred to as "oﬀer" and "answer") contains multiple BUNDLE
groups, the procedures in this speciﬁcation apply to each group independently. All RTP-based
bundled media associated with a given BUNDLE group belong to a single RTP session

MUST

[RFC3550]

.

The BUNDLE extension is backward compatible. Endpoints that do not support the extension are
expected to generate oﬀers and answers without an SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute and assign a
unique address:port to each "m=" section within an oﬀer and answer, according to the procedures
in

[RFC4566]

[RFC3264]

 and

.

1.3.  Protocol Extensions

In addition to deﬁning the new SDP Grouping Framework extension, this speciﬁcation deﬁnes the
following protocol extensions and makes the following updates to RFCs. This speciﬁcation:

•

deﬁnes a new SDP attribute, 'bundle-only', which can be used to request that a speciﬁc "m="
section (and the associated media) be used only if kept within a BUNDLE group.

•

updates RFC 3264
cases where the media described by the "m=" section is not disabled or rejected.

 to also allow assigning a zero port value to an "m=" section in

[RFC3264]

•

deﬁnes a new RTCP
header extension that can be used to associate RTP streams with "m=" sections.

 SDES item, Media Identiﬁcation ('MID'), and a new RTP SDES

[RFC3550]

•

[RFC7941]

updates
requirement regarding protection of an SDES RTP header extension carrying an SDES item
for the MID RTP header extension.

 by adding an exception, for the MID RTP header extension, to the

•

[RFC5888]

updates
identiﬁes an "m=" section with the port value set to zero.

 by allowing an SDP 'group' attribute to contain an identiﬁcation-tag that

1.4.  Changes from RFC 8843

 and

[RFC8843]

[RFC8829]

 were published, an inconsistency between the speciﬁcations was

When
identiﬁed. The procedures regarding assigning the port value to a bundled "m=" section in an
answer (initial or subsequent) and a subsequent oﬀer were inconsistent. This speciﬁcation
removes the inconsistency by aligning the port value assignment procedure with the procedure
in

[RFC8829]

.

In addition, this document implements changes from the following errata reports:
[Err6437]

.

[Err6431]

,

2.  Terminology

"m=" section:

SDP bodies contain one or more media descriptions, referred to as "m=" sections.

Each "m=" section is represented by an SDP "m=" line and zero or more SDP attributes
associated with the "m=" line. A local address:port combination is assigned to each "m="
section.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

5-tuple:

A collection of the following values: source address, source port, destination address,

destination port, and transport-layer protocol.

Unique address:port:

An address:port combination that is assigned to only one "m=" section in

an oﬀer or answer.

Oﬀerer BUNDLE-tag:

The ﬁrst identiﬁcation-tag in a given SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute

identiﬁcation-tag list in an oﬀer.

Answerer BUNDLE-tag:

The ﬁrst identiﬁcation-tag in a given SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute

identiﬁcation-tag list in an answer.

Suggested oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section:

The bundled "m=" section identiﬁed by the oﬀerer
BUNDLE-tag in an initial BUNDLE oﬀer, before a BUNDLE group has been negotiated.

Oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section:

The bundled "m=" section identiﬁed by the oﬀerer BUNDLE-tag in a
subsequent oﬀer. The "m=" section contains characteristics (oﬀerer BUNDLE address:port and
oﬀerer BUNDLE attributes) that are applied to each "m=" section within the BUNDLE group.

Answerer-tagged "m=" section:

The bundled "m=" section identiﬁed by the answerer BUNDLE-tag

in an answer (initial BUNDLE answer or subsequent). The "m=" section contains
characteristics (answerer BUNDLE address:port and answerer BUNDLE attributes) that are
applied to each "m=" section within the BUNDLE group.

BUNDLE address:port:

An address:port combination that an endpoint uses for sending and

receiving bundled media.

Oﬀerer BUNDLE address:port:

The address:port combination used by the oﬀerer for sending

and receiving media.

Answerer BUNDLE address:port:
sending and receiving media.

The address:port combination used by the answerer for

BUNDLE attributes:

IDENTICAL and TRANSPORT multiplexing category SDP attributes. Once a

BUNDLE group has been created, the attribute values apply to each bundled "m=" section
within the BUNDLE group.

Oﬀerer BUNDLE attributes:

IDENTICAL and TRANSPORT multiplexing category SDP attributes

included in the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section.

Answerer BUNDLE attributes:

IDENTICAL and TRANSPORT multiplexing category SDP attributes

included in the answerer-tagged "m=" section.

BUNDLE transport:

The transport (5-tuple) used by all media described by the "m=" sections

within a BUNDLE group.

BUNDLE group:

A set of bundled "m=" sections, created using an SDP oﬀer/answer exchange,
that uses a single BUNDLE transport and a single set of BUNDLE attributes for sending and
receiving all media (bundled media) described by the set of "m=" sections. The same BUNDLE
transport is used for sending and receiving bundled media.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

Bundled "m=" section:

An "m=" section, whose identiﬁcation-tag is placed in an SDP

'group:BUNDLE' attribute identiﬁcation-tag list in an oﬀer or answer.

Bundle-only "m=" section:

A bundled "m=" section that contains an SDP 'bundle-only' attribute.

Bundled media:

All media associated with a given BUNDLE group.

Initial BUNDLE oﬀer:

[RFC3261]
is used to carry SDP), in which the oﬀerer indicates that it wants to negotiate a given BUNDLE
group.

The ﬁrst oﬀer, within an SDP session (e.g., a SIP dialog when SIP

Initial BUNDLE answer:

The answer to an initial BUNDLE oﬀer in which the oﬀerer indicates

that it wants to negotiate a BUNDLE group, and the answerer accepts the creation of the
BUNDLE group. The BUNDLE group is created once the answerer sends the initial BUNDLE
answer.

Subsequent oﬀer:

An oﬀer that contains a BUNDLE group that has been created as part of a

previous oﬀer/answer exchange.

Subsequent answer:

An answer to a subsequent oﬀer.

Identiﬁcation-tag:

attribute
"m=" section. The session-level SDP 'group' attribute
tags, identifying the "m=" sections associated with that particular 'group' attribute.

A unique token value that is used to identify an "m=" section. The SDP 'mid'
 in an "m=" section carries the unique identiﬁcation-tag assigned to that
 carries a list of identiﬁcation-

[RFC5888]

[RFC5888]

3.  Conventions

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

4.  Applicability Statement

The mechanism in this speciﬁcation only applies to SDP
SDP oﬀer/answer mechanism
document and is thus undeﬁned.

[RFC3264]

[RFC4566]

, when used together with the

. Declarative usage of SDP is out of scope of this

5.  SDP Grouping Framework BUNDLE Extension

This section deﬁnes a new SDP Grouping Framework
BUNDLE extension can be used with the SDP oﬀer/answer mechanism to negotiate a set of "m="
sections that will become part of a BUNDLE group. Within a BUNDLE group, each "m=" section
uses a BUNDLE transport for sending and receiving bundled media. Each endpoint uses a single
address:port combination for sending and receiving the bundled media.

 extension, 'BUNDLE'. The

[RFC5888]

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

 of "BUNDLE". An identiﬁcation-tag is assigned to each bundled "m=" section, and each

The BUNDLE extension is indicated using an SDP 'group' attribute with a semantics value
[RFC5888]
identiﬁcation-tag is listed in the SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute identiﬁcation-tag list. Each "m="
section whose identiﬁcation-tag is listed in the identiﬁcation-tag list is associated with a given
BUNDLE group.

SDP bodies can contain multiple BUNDLE groups. Any given bundled "m=" section
associated with more than one BUNDLE group at any given time.

MUST NOT

 be

NOTE: The order of the "m=" sections listed in the SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute identiﬁcation-tag
list does not have to be the same as the order in which the "m=" sections occur in the SDP.

The multiplexing category

[RFC8859]

 for the 'group:BUNDLE' attribute is 'NORMAL'.

Section 7 deﬁnes the detailed SDP oﬀer/answer procedures for the BUNDLE extension.

6.  SDP 'bundle-only' Attribute

This section deﬁnes a new SDP media-level attribute
; hence, it has no value.
property attribute

[RFC4566]

[RFC4566]

, 'bundle-only'. 'bundle-only' is a

In order to ensure that an answerer that does not support the BUNDLE extension always rejects a
bundled "m=" section in an oﬀer, the oﬀerer can assign a zero port value to the "m=" section.
According to
'bundle-only' attribute in a bundled "m=" section, the oﬀerer can request that the answerer accept
the "m=" section only if the answerer supports the BUNDLE extension and if the answerer keeps
the "m=" section within the associated BUNDLE group.

, an answerer will reject such an "m=" section. By including an SDP

[RFC3264]

Name:

bundle-only

Value:

N/A

Usage Level:

media

Charset Dependent:

no

Example:

a=bundle-only

The usage of the 'bundle-only' attribute is only deﬁned for a bundled "m=" section with a zero port
value. Other usage is unspeciﬁed. If an oﬀerer or answerer receives a 'bundle-only' attribute in a
non-bundled "m=" section, the oﬀerer or answerer

 discard the attribute.

MUST

Section 7 deﬁnes the detailed SDP oﬀer/answer procedures for the 'bundle-only' attribute.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

7.  SDP Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

This section describes the SDP oﬀer/answer

[RFC3264]

 procedures for:

•

Negotiating a BUNDLE group;

•

Suggesting and selecting the tagged "m=" sections (oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section and answerer-
tagged "m=" section);

•

Adding an "m=" section to a BUNDLE group;

•

Moving an "m=" section out of a BUNDLE group; and

•

Disabling an "m=" section within a BUNDLE group.

The generic rules and procedures deﬁned in
extension. For example, if an oﬀer is rejected by the answerer, the previously negotiated
addresses:ports, SDP parameters, and characteristics (including those associated with a BUNDLE
group) apply. Hence, if an oﬀerer generates an oﬀer in order to negotiate a BUNDLE group and
the answerer rejects the oﬀer, the BUNDLE group is not created.

 also apply to the BUNDLE

[RFC5888]

[RFC3264]

 and

The procedures in this section are independent of the media type or "m=" line proto value
assigned to a bundled "m=" section. Section 6 deﬁnes additional considerations for the usage of
the SDP 'bundle-only' attribute. Section 9 deﬁnes additional considerations for RTP-based media.
Section 10 deﬁnes additional considerations for the usage of the ICE mechanism

[RFC8445]

.

Oﬀers and answers can contain multiple BUNDLE groups. The procedures in this section apply
independently to a given BUNDLE group.

7.1.  Generic SDP Considerations

This section describes generic restrictions associated with the usage of SDP parameters within a
BUNDLE group. It also describes how to calculate a value for the whole BUNDLE group, when
parameter and attribute values have been assigned to each bundled "m=" section.

7.1.1.  Connection Data ("c=")

The "c=" line nettype value

[RFC4566]

 associated with a bundled "m=" section

MUST

 be 'IN'.

The "c=" line addrtype value
'IP6'. The same value

MUST

 be associated with each "m=" section.

[RFC4566]

 associated with a bundled "m=" section

MUST

 be 'IP4' or

NOTE: Extensions to this speciﬁcation can specify usage of the BUNDLE mechanism for other
nettype and addrtype values than the ones listed above.

7.1.2.  Bandwidth ("b=")

An oﬀerer and answerer
MUST
the SDP bandwidth ("b=") line with bundled "m=" sections.

 use the rules and restrictions deﬁned in

[RFC8859]

 for associating

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

7.1.3.  Attributes ("a=")

An oﬀerer and answerer
applicable, following the normal oﬀer/answer procedures for each attribute, with the following
exceptions:

 include SDP attributes in every bundled "m=" section where

MUST

•

MUST

MUST NOT

 include IDENTICAL and TRANSPORT

In the initial BUNDLE oﬀer, the oﬀerer
multiplexing category SDP attributes (BUNDLE attributes) in bundle-only "m=" sections. The
oﬀerer
 include such attributes in all other bundled "m=" sections. In the initial BUNDLE
oﬀer, each bundled "m=" line can contain a diﬀerent set of BUNDLE attributes and attribute
values. Once the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section has been selected, the BUNDLE attributes
contained in the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section will apply to each bundled "m=" section within
the BUNDLE group.

•

In a subsequent oﬀer or in an answer (initial or subsequent), the oﬀerer and answerer
include IDENTICAL and TRANSPORT multiplexing category SDP attributes (BUNDLE
attributes) only in the tagged "m=" section (oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section or answerer-tagged
"m=" section). The oﬀerer and answerer
MUST NOT
bundled "m=" section. The BUNDLE attributes contained in the tagged "m=" section will apply
to each bundled "m=" section within the BUNDLE group.

 include such attributes in any other

MUST

•

In an oﬀer (initial BUNDLE oﬀer or subsequent) or in an answer (initial BUNDLE answer or
subsequent), the oﬀerer and answerer
than IDENTICAL and TRANSPORT in each bundled "m=" section that a given attribute applies
to. Each bundled "m=" line can contain a diﬀerent set of such attributes and attribute values,
as such attributes only apply to the given bundled "m=" section in which they are included.

 include SDP attributes from categories other

MUST

NOTE: A consequence of the rules above is that media-speciﬁc IDENTICAL and TRANSPORT
multiplexing category SDP attributes that are applicable only to some of the bundled "m="
sections within the BUNDLE group might appear in the tagged "m=" section for which they are
not applicable. For instance, the tagged "m=" section might contain an SDP 'rtcp-mux' attribute
even if the tagged "m=" section does not describe RTP-based media (but another bundled "m="
section within the BUNDLE group does describe RTP-based media).

7.2.  Generating the Initial BUNDLE Oﬀer

The procedures in this section apply to the ﬁrst oﬀer within an SDP session (e.g., a SIP dialog when
SIP
 is used to carry SDP) in which the oﬀerer indicates that it wants to negotiate a given
BUNDLE group. This could occur in the initial oﬀer, or in a subsequent oﬀer, of the SDP session.

[RFC3261]

When an oﬀerer generates an initial BUNDLE oﬀer, in order to negotiate a BUNDLE group, it
MUST

:

•

Assign a unique address:port to each bundled "m=" section following the procedures in
[RFC3264]

, excluding any bundle-only "m=" sections (see below);

•

Pick a bundled "m=" section as the suggested oﬀerer-tagged "m=" (Section 7.2.1);

•

Include SDP attributes in the bundled "m=" sections following the rules in Section 7.1.3;

•

Include an SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute in the oﬀer; and

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

•

Place the identiﬁcation-tag of each bundled "m=" section in the SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute
identiﬁcation-tag list. The oﬀerer BUNDLE-tag indicates the suggested oﬀerer-tagged "m="
section.

NOTE: When the oﬀerer assigns unique addresses:ports to multiple bundled "m=" sections, the
oﬀerer needs to be prepared to receive bundled media on each unique address:port until it
receives the associated answer and ﬁnds out which bundled "m=" section (and associated
address:port combination) the answerer has selected as the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section.

If the oﬀerer wants to request that the answerer accept a given bundled "m=" section only if the
answerer keeps the "m=" section within the negotiated BUNDLE group, the oﬀerer

MUST

:

•

Include an SDP 'bundle-only' attribute (Section 7.2.1) in the "m=" section, and

•

Assign a zero port value to the "m=" section.

NOTE: If the oﬀerer assigns a zero port value to a bundled "m=" section but does not include an
SDP 'bundle-only' attribute in the "m=" section, it is an indication that the oﬀerer wants to
disable the "m=" section (Section 7.5.3).

Sections 7.2.2 and 18.1 show an example of an initial BUNDLE oﬀer.

7.2.1.  Suggesting the Oﬀerer-Tagged "m=" Section

In the initial BUNDLE oﬀer, the bundled "m=" section indicated by the oﬀerer BUNDLE-tag is the
suggested oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section. The address:port combination associated with the "m="
section will be used by the oﬀerer for sending and receiving bundled media if the answerer selects
the "m=" section as the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section (Section 7.3.1). In addition, if the answerer
selects the "m=" section as the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section, the BUNDLE attributes included in the
"m=" section will be applied to each "m=" section within the negotiated BUNDLE group.

The oﬀerer

MUST NOT

 suggest a bundle-only "m=" section as the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section.

RECOMMENDED

 that the suggested oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section be a bundled "m=" section
It is
which the oﬀerer believes is unlikely to be rejected or moved out of the BUNDLE group by the
answerer. How such an assumption is made is outside the scope of this document.

7.2.2.  Example: Initial BUNDLE Oﬀer

The following example shows an initial BUNDLE oﬀer. The oﬀer includes two "m=" sections in the
oﬀer and suggests that both "m=" sections be included in a BUNDLE group. The audio "m=" section
is the suggested oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section, indicated by placing the identiﬁcation-tag associated
with the "m=" section (oﬀerer BUNDLE-tag) ﬁrst in the SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute
identiﬁcation-id list.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Oﬀer

  v=0
  o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP6 2001:db8::3
  s=
  c=IN IP6 2001:db8::3
  t=0 0
  a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

  m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 0 8 97
  b=AS:200
  a=mid:foo
  a=rtcp-mux
  a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
  a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000
  a=rtpmap:97 iLBC/8000
  a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

  m=video 10002 RTP/AVP 31 32
  b=AS:1000
  a=mid:bar
  a=rtcp-mux
  a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
  a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
  a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

The following example shows an initial BUNDLE oﬀer. The oﬀer includes two "m=" sections in the
oﬀer and suggests that both "m=" sections are included in a BUNDLE group. The oﬀerer includes
an SDP 'bundle-only' attribute in the video "m=" section to request that the answerer accept the
"m=" section only if the answerer supports the BUNDLE extension and if the answerer keeps the
"m=" section within the associated BUNDLE group. The audio "m=" section is the suggested oﬀerer-
tagged "m=" section, indicated by placing the identiﬁcation-tag associated with the "m=" section
(oﬀerer BUNDLE-tag) ﬁrst in the SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute identiﬁcation-id list.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Oﬀer

  v=0
  o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP6 2001:db8::3
  s=
  c=IN IP6 2001:db8::3
  t=0 0
  a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

  m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 0 8 97
  b=AS:200
  a=mid:foo
  a=rtcp-mux
  a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
  a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000
  a=rtpmap:97 iLBC/8000
  a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

  m=video 0 RTP/AVP 31 32
  b=AS:1000
  a=mid:bar
  a=bundle-only
  a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
  a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
  a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

7.3.  Generating the SDP Answer

When an answerer generates an answer (initial BUNDLE answer or subsequent) that contains a
BUNDLE group, the following general SDP Grouping Framework restrictions, deﬁned in
[RFC5888]

, also apply to the BUNDLE group:

•

The answerer is only allowed to include a BUNDLE group in an initial BUNDLE answer if the
oﬀerer requested the BUNDLE group to be created in the corresponding initial BUNDLE oﬀer;

•

The answerer is only allowed to include a BUNDLE group in a subsequent answer if the
corresponding subsequent oﬀer contains a previously negotiated BUNDLE group;

•

The answerer is only allowed to include a bundled "m=" section in an answer if the "m="
section was indicated as bundled in the corresponding oﬀer; and

•

The answerer is only allowed to include a bundled "m=" section in the same BUNDLE group as
the bundled "m=" line in the corresponding oﬀer.

In addition, when an answerer generates an answer (initial BUNDLE answer or subsequent) that
contains a BUNDLE group, the answerer

MUST

:

•

In case of an initial BUNDLE answer, select the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section using the
procedures in Section 7.3.1. In case of a subsequent answer, the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section is
 be changed by the answerer;
indicated in the corresponding subsequent oﬀer and

MUST NOT

•

Select the answerer-tagged "m=" section (Section 7.3.1);

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

•

Assign the answerer BUNDLE address:port to the answerer-tagged "m=" section and to every
other bundled "m=" section within the BUNDLE group;

•

Include SDP attributes in the bundled "m=" sections following the rules in Section 7.1.3;

•

Include an SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute in the answer; and

•

Place the identiﬁcation-tag of each bundled "m=" section in the SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute
identiﬁcation-tag list. The answerer BUNDLE-tag indicates the answerer-tagged "m=" section
(Section 7.3.1).

If the answerer does not want to keep an "m=" section within a BUNDLE group, it

MUST

:

•

Move the "m=" section out of the BUNDLE group (Section 7.3.2); or

•

Reject the "m=" section (Section 7.3.3).

The answerer can modify the answerer BUNDLE address:port, add and remove SDP attributes, or
modify SDP attribute values in a subsequent answer. Changes to the answerer BUNDLE
address:port and the answerer BUNDLE attributes will be applied to each bundled "m=" section
within the BUNDLE group.

NOTE: If a bundled "m=" section in an oﬀer contains a zero port value, but the "m=" section
does not contain an SDP 'bundle-only' attribute, it is an indication that the oﬀerer wants to
disable the "m=" section (Section 7.5.3).

7.3.1.  Answerer Selection of Tagged "m=" Sections

When selecting the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section, the answerer
section fulﬁlls the following criteria (Section 7.2.1):

MUST

 ﬁrst check whether the "m="

•

The answerer will not move the "m=" section out of the BUNDLE group (Section 7.3.2);

•

The answerer will not reject the "m=" section (Section 7.3.3); and

•

The "m=" section does not contain a zero port value.

If all of the criteria above are fulﬁlled, the answerer
tagged "m=" section and
answerer-tagged "m=" section. In the answer, the answerer BUNDLE-tag indicates the answerer-
tagged "m=" section.

 also mark the corresponding "m=" section in the answer as the

 select the "m=" section as the oﬀerer-

MUST

MUST

If one or more of the criteria are not fulﬁlled, the answerer
 pick the next identiﬁcation-tag
in the identiﬁcation-tag list in the oﬀer and perform the same criteria check for the "m=" section
indicated by that identiﬁcation-tag. If there are no more identiﬁcation-tags in the identiﬁcation-
tag list, the answerer
the whole oﬀer, the answerer
out of a BUNDLE group (Section 7.3.2) or rejecting an "m=" section within a BUNDLE group
(Section 7.3.3) to every bundled "m=" section in the oﬀer when creating the answer.

 create the BUNDLE group. In addition, unless the answerer rejects
 apply the answerer procedures for moving an "m=" section

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

Section 18.1 shows an example of an oﬀerer BUNDLE address:port selection.

Sections 7.3.4 and 18.1 show an example of an answerer-tagged "m=" section selection.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

7.3.2.  Moving a Media Description Out of a BUNDLE Group

When an answerer generates the answer, the answerer
wants to move a bundled "m=" section out of the negotiated BUNDLE group:

MUST

 ﬁrst check the following criteria if it

•

In the corresponding oﬀer, the "m=" section is within a previously negotiated BUNDLE group,
and

•

In the corresponding oﬀer, the "m=" section contains an SDP 'bundle-only' attribute.

If either criterion above is fulﬁlled, the answerer cannot move the "m=" section out of the
BUNDLE group in the answer. The answerer can reject the whole oﬀer, reject each bundled "m="
section within the BUNDLE group (Section 7.3.3), or keep the "m=" section within the BUNDLE
group in the answer and later create an oﬀer where the "m=" section is moved out of the BUNDLE
group (Section 7.5.2).

NOTE: One consequence of the rules above is that, once a BUNDLE group has been negotiated,
a bundled "m=" section cannot be moved out of the BUNDLE group in an answer. Instead, an
oﬀer is needed.

When the answerer generates an answer in which it moves a bundled "m=" section out of a
BUNDLE group, the answerer:

• MUST

 assign a unique address:port to the "m=" section;

• MUST

 include any applicable SDP attribute in the "m=" section using the normal oﬀer/answer

procedures for each attribute;

• MUST NOT

 place the identiﬁcation-tag associated with the "m=" section in the SDP

'group:BUNDLE' attribute identiﬁcation-tag list associated with the BUNDLE group; and

• MUST NOT

 include an SDP 'bundle-only' attribute to the "m=" section.

Because an answerer is not allowed to move an "m=" section from one BUNDLE group to another
within an answer (Section 7.3), if the answerer wants to move an "m=" section from one BUNDLE
group to another, it
generate an oﬀer where the "m=" section is added to another BUNDLE group (Section 7.5.1).

 ﬁrst move the "m=" section out of the current BUNDLE group and then

MUST

7.3.3.  Rejecting a Media Description in a BUNDLE Group

When an answerer wants to reject a bundled "m=" section in an answer, it
following criterion:

MUST

 ﬁrst check the

•

In the corresponding oﬀer (subsequent), the "m=" section is the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section.

If the criterion above is fulﬁlled, the answerer cannot reject the "m=" section in the answer. The
answerer can reject the whole oﬀer, reject each bundled "m=" section within the BUNDLE group,
or keep the "m=" section within the BUNDLE group in the answer and later create an oﬀer where
the "m=" section is disabled within the BUNDLE group (Section 7.5.3).

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

When an answerer generates an answer in which it rejects a bundled "m=" section, the answerer:

• MUST

 assign a zero port value to the "m=" section, according to the procedures in

[RFC3264]

;

• MUST NOT

 place the identiﬁcation-tag associated with the "m=" section in the SDP

'group:BUNDLE' attribute identiﬁcation-tag list associated with the BUNDLE group; and

• MUST NOT

 include an SDP 'bundle-only' attribute in the "m=" section.

7.3.4.  Example: SDP Answer

The example below shows an answer based on the corresponding oﬀer in Section 7.2.2. The
answerer accepts both bundled "m=" sections within the created BUNDLE group. The audio "m="
section is the answerer-tagged "m=" section, indicated by placing the identiﬁcation-tag associated
with the "m=" section (answerer BUNDLE-tag) ﬁrst in the SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute
identiﬁcation-id list.

SDP Answer

  v=0
  o=bob 2808844564 2808844564 IN IP6 2001:db8::1
  s=
  c=IN IP6 2001:db8::1
  t=0 0
  a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

  m=audio 20000 RTP/AVP 0
  b=AS:200
  a=mid:foo
  a=rtcp-mux
  a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
  a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

  m=video 20000 RTP/AVP 32
  b=AS:1000
  a=mid:bar
  a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
  a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

7.3.5.  RFC 8843 Considerations

[RFC8843]

, instead of assigning the oﬀerer BUNDLE address:port to each "m=" section within

In
the BUNDLE group when modifying the session (Section 7.5), the oﬀerer only assigned the oﬀerer
BUNDLE address:port to the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section. For every other "m=" section within the
BUNDLE group, the oﬀerer included an SDP 'bundle-only' attribute in, and assigned a zero port
value to, the "m=" section. The way an answerer compliant with this speciﬁcation processes such
oﬀer is considered an implementation issue (e.g., based on whether the answerer needs to be
) and is outside the scope of this
backward compatible with oﬀerers compliant with
speciﬁcation. The example below shows such an SDP Oﬀer:

[RFC8843]

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Oﬀer

  v=0
  o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP6 2001:db8::3
  s=
  c=IN IP6 2001:db8::3
  t=0 0
  a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

  m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 0 8 97
  b=AS:200
  a=mid:foo
  a=rtcp-mux
  a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
  a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000
  a=rtpmap:97 iLBC/8000
  a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

  m=video 0 RTP/AVP 31 32
  b=AS:1000
  a=mid:bar
  a=bundle-only
  a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
  a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
  a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

7.4.  Oﬀerer Processing of the SDP Answer

When an oﬀerer receives an answer, if the answer contains a BUNDLE group, the oﬀerer
check that any bundled "m=" section in the answer was indicated as bundled in the corresponding
 apply the properties
oﬀer (for the same BUNDLE group). If there is no mismatch, the oﬀerer
(BUNDLE address:port, BUNDLE attributes, etc.) of the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section (selected by the
answerer; see Section 7.3.1) to each bundled "m=" section within the BUNDLE group.

MUST

MUST

NOTE: As the answerer might reject one or more bundled "m=" sections in an initial BUNDLE
oﬀer or move a bundled "m=" section out of a BUNDLE group, a given bundled "m=" section in
the oﬀer might not be indicated as bundled in the corresponding answer.

If the answer does not contain a BUNDLE group, the oﬀerer
answer.

MUST

 process the answer as a normal

7.4.1.  RFC 8843 Considerations

[RFC8843]

In
, instead of assigning the answerer BUNDLE address:port to each "m=" section within
the BUNDLE group when generating the SDP Answer (Section 7.3), the answerer only assigned the
answerer BUNDLE address:port to the answerer-tagged "m=" section. For every other "m=" section
within the BUNDLE group, the answerer included an SDP 'bundle-only' attribute in, and assigned
a zero port value to, the "m=" section. The way an oﬀerer compliant with this speciﬁcation
processes such an SDP Answer is considered an implementation issue (e.g., based on whether the
answerer needs to be backward compatible with oﬀerers compliant with
outside the scope of this speciﬁcation. The example below shows such an SDP Answer:

[RFC8843]

) and is

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Answer

  v=0
  o=bob 2808844564 2808844564 IN IP6 2001:db8::1
  s=
  c=IN IP6 2001:db8::1
  t=0 0
  a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

  m=audio 20000 RTP/AVP 0
  b=AS:200
  a=mid:foo
  a=rtcp-mux
  a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
  a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

  m=video 0 RTP/AVP 32
  b=AS:1000
  a=mid:bar
  a=bundle-only
  a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
  a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

7.5.  Modifying the Session

When a BUNDLE group has been previously negotiated and an oﬀerer generates a subsequent
oﬀer, the oﬀerer

MUST

:

•

Pick one bundled "m=" section as the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section. The oﬀerer can pick either
the "m=" section that was previously selected by the answerer as the oﬀerer-tagged "m="
section or another bundled "m=" section within the BUNDLE group;

•

Assign a BUNDLE address:port (previously negotiated or newly suggested) to the oﬀerer-
tagged "m=" section and to every other bundled "m=" section within the BUNDLE group;

•

Include SDP attributes in the bundled "m=" sections following the rules in Section 7.1.3;

•

Include an SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute in the oﬀer; and

•

Place the identiﬁcation-tag of each bundled "m=" section in the SDP 'group:BUNDLE' attribute
identiﬁcation-tag list. The oﬀerer BUNDLE-tag indicates the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section.

The oﬀerer

MUST NOT

 pick a given bundled "m=" section as the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section if:

•

The oﬀerer wants to move the "m=" section out of the BUNDLE group (Section 7.5.2), or

•

The oﬀerer wants to disable the "m=" section (Section 7.5.3).

The oﬀerer can modify the oﬀerer BUNDLE address:port, add and remove SDP attributes, or
modify SDP attribute values in the subsequent oﬀer. Changes to the oﬀerer BUNDLE address:port
and the oﬀerer BUNDLE attributes will (if the oﬀer is accepted by the answerer) be applied to each
bundled "m=" section within the BUNDLE group.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

7.5.1.  Adding a Media Description to a BUNDLE Group

When an oﬀerer generates a subsequent oﬀer in which it wants to add a bundled "m=" section to a
previously negotiated BUNDLE group, the oﬀerer follows the procedures in Section 7.5. The oﬀerer
picks either the added "m=" section or an "m=" section previously added to the BUNDLE group as
the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section.

NOTE: As described in Section 7.3.2, the answerer cannot move the added "m=" section out of
the BUNDLE group in its answer. If the answerer wants to move the "m=" section out of the
BUNDLE group, it will have to ﬁrst accept it into the BUNDLE group in the answer and then
send a subsequent oﬀer where the "m=" section is moved out of the BUNDLE group (Section
7.5.2).

7.5.2.  Moving a Media Description Out of a BUNDLE Group

When an oﬀerer generates a subsequent oﬀer in which it wants to remove a bundled "m=" section
from a BUNDLE group, the oﬀerer:

• MUST

 assign a unique address:port to the "m=" section;

• MUST

 include SDP attributes in the "m=" section following the normal oﬀer/answer rules for

each attribute;

• MUST NOT

 place the identiﬁcation-tag associated with the "m=" section in the SDP

'group:BUNDLE' attribute identiﬁcation-tag list associated with the BUNDLE group; and

• MUST NOT

 assign an SDP 'bundle-only' attribute to the "m=" section.

For the other bundled "m=" sections within the BUNDLE group, the oﬀerer follows the procedures
in Section 7.5.

MUST NOT

An oﬀerer
oﬀer. If the oﬀerer wants to move an "m=" section from one BUNDLE group to another, it
ﬁrst move the BUNDLE group out of the current BUNDLE group and then generate a second oﬀer
where the "m=" section is added to another BUNDLE group (Section 7.5.1).

 move an "m=" section from one BUNDLE group to another within a single
MUST

Section 18.4 shows an example of an oﬀer for moving an "m=" section out of a BUNDLE group.

7.5.3.  Disabling a Media Description in a BUNDLE Group

When an oﬀerer generates a subsequent oﬀer in which it wants to disable a bundled "m=" section
from a BUNDLE group, the oﬀerer:

• MUST

 assign a zero port value to the "m=" section, following the procedures in

[RFC4566]

;

• MUST NOT

 place the identiﬁcation-tag associated with the "m=" section in the SDP

'group:BUNDLE' attribute identiﬁcation-tag list associated with the BUNDLE group; and

• MUST NOT

 assign an SDP 'bundle-only' attribute to the "m=" section.

For the other bundled "m=" sections within the BUNDLE group, the oﬀerer follows the procedures
in Section 7.5.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

Section 18.5 shows an example of an oﬀer and answer for disabling an "m=" section within a
BUNDLE group.

7.6.  3PCC Considerations

In some third-party call control (3PCC) scenarios, a new session will be established between an
endpoint that is currently part of an ongoing session and an endpoint that is not currently part
of an ongoing session. In this situation, the endpoint that is not part of a session, while expecting
an initial oﬀer, can receive an SDP oﬀer created as a subsequent oﬀer. The text below describes
how this can occur with the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)

[RFC3261]

.

[RFC3261]

SIP
 allows a User Agent Client (UAC) to send a re-INVITE request without an SDP body
(sometimes referred to as an "empty re-INVITE"). In such cases, the User Agent Server (UAS) will
include an SDP Oﬀer in the associated 200 (OK) response; when the UAS is a part of an ongoing SIP
session, this oﬀer will be a subsequent oﬀer. This oﬀer will be received by the 3PCC controller
(UAC) and then forwarded to another User Agent (UA). When that UA is not part of an ongoing SIP
session, as noted above, it will process the oﬀer as an initial SDP oﬀer.

When the BUNDLE mechanism is used, an initial BUNDLE oﬀer is constructed using diﬀerent
rules than subsequent BUNDLE oﬀers, and it cannot be assumed that a UA is able to correctly
process a subsequent BUNDLE oﬀer as an initial BUNDLE oﬀer. Therefore, the 3PCC controller
 take action to mitigate this problem, e.g., rewrite the subsequent BUNDLE oﬀer into a
SHOULD
valid initial BUNDLE oﬀer (Section 7.2), before it forwards the BUNDLE oﬀer to a UA.

8.  Protocol Identiﬁcation

Each "m=" section within a BUNDLE group
bundled "m=" sections use diﬀerent upper-layer protocols on top of the transport-layer protocol,
there
received data with the correct protocol for this particular protocol combination.

 exist a publicly available speciﬁcation that describes how a mechanism associates

 use the same transport- layer protocol. If

MUST

MUST

In addition, if received data can be associated with more than one bundled "m=" section, there
MUST
received data with the correct "m=" section.

 exist a publicly available speciﬁcation that describes a mechanism for associating the

This document describes a mechanism to identify the protocol of received data among the
Session Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN), Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS), and the
Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) (in any combination) when UDP is used as a
transport-layer protocol, but it does not describe how to identify diﬀerent protocols transported
on DTLS. While the mechanism is generally applicable to other protocols and transport-layer
protocols, any such use requires further speciﬁcation that encompasses how to multiplex multiple
protocols on a given transport-layer protocol and how to associate received data with the correct
protocols.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

8.1.  STUN, DTLS, and SRTP

 describes a mechanism to identify the protocol of a received packet

Section 5.1.2 of [RFC5764]
among the STUN, DTLS, and SRTP protocols (in any combination). If an oﬀer or answer includes a
bundled "m=" section that represents these protocols, the oﬀerer or answerer
mechanism described in
support and usage of the mechanism.

 support the
, and no explicit negotiation is required in order to indicate

[RFC5764]

MUST

 does not describe how to identify diﬀerent protocols transported on DTLS, only how to
 exist a

[RFC5764]
identify the DTLS protocol itself. If multiple protocols are transported on DTLS, there
speciﬁcation describing a mechanism for identifying each individual protocol. In addition, if a
received DTLS packet can be associated with more than one "m=" section, there
 exist a
speciﬁcation that describes a mechanism for associating the received DTLS packets with the
correct "m=" section.

MUST

MUST

Section 9.2 describes how to associate the packets in a received SRTP stream with the correct "m="
section.

9.  RTP Considerations

9.1.  Single RTP Session

All RTP-based media within a single BUNDLE group belong to a single RTP session

[RFC3550]

.

Since a single BUNDLE transport is used for sending and receiving bundled media, the symmetric
RTP mechanism

 be used for RTP-based bundled media.

[RFC4961] MUST

Since a single RTP session is used for each BUNDLE group, all "m=" sections representing RTP-
based media within a BUNDLE group will share a single synchronization source (SSRC)
numbering space

[RFC3550]

.

The following rules and restrictions apply for a single RTP session:

•

A speciﬁc payload type value can be used in multiple bundled "m=" sections only if each
codec associated with the payload type number shares an identical codec conﬁguration
(Section 9.1.1).

•

The proto value in each bundled RTP-based "m=" section

MUST

 be identical (e.g., RTP/AVPF).

•

The RTP MID header extension
[RFC8285]
, with a 'urn:ietf:params:rtp- hdrext:sdes:mid' URI value deﬁned in this
speciﬁcation in each bundled RTP-based "m=" section in every oﬀer and answer.

 be enabled by including an SDP 'extmap' attribute

MUST

•

A given SSRC
diﬀerent bundled "m=" sections.

MUST NOT

 transmit RTP packets using payload types that originate from

NOTE: The last bullet above is to avoid sending multiple media types from the same SSRC. If
transmission of multiple media types is done with time overlap, RTP and RTCP fail to function.
Even if done in the proper sequence, this causes RTP timestamp rate switching issues

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

. However, once an SSRC has left the RTP session (by sending an RTCP BYE packet),

[RFC7160]
that SSRC can be reused by another source (possibly associated with a diﬀerent bundled "m="
section) after a delay of 5 RTCP reporting intervals (the delay is to ensure the SSRC has timed
[RFC3550]
out in case the RTCP BYE packet was lost

).

[RFC7657]
sent using a mixture of Diﬀserv Codepoints.

 deﬁnes Diﬀerentiated Services (Diﬀserv) considerations for RTP-based bundled media

9.1.1.  Payload Type (PT) Value Reuse

Multiple bundled "m=" sections might describe RTP-based media. As all RTP-based media
associated with a BUNDLE group belong to the same RTP session, in order for a given payload
type value to be used inside more than one bundled "m=" section, all codecs associated with the
payload type number
 share an identical codec conﬁguration. This means that the codecs
 share the same media type, encoding name, clock rate, and any parameter that can aﬀect
MUST
the codec conﬁguration and packetization.
 lists SDP attributes whose attribute values
are required to be identical for all codecs that use the same payload type value.

[RFC8859]

MUST

9.2.  Associating RTP/RTCP Streams with the Correct SDP Media Description

[RFC3550]

, RTP packets are associated with RTP streams

As described in
stream is identiﬁed by an SSRC value, and each RTP packet includes an SSRC ﬁeld that is used to
associate the packet with the correct RTP stream. RTCP packets also use SSRCs to identify which
RTP streams the packet relates to. However, an RTCP packet can contain multiple SSRC ﬁelds in
the course of providing feedback or reports on diﬀerent RTP streams; therefore, they can be
associated with multiple such streams.

. Each RTP

[RFC7656]

In order to be able to process received RTP/RTCP packets correctly, it
an RTP stream with the correct "m=" section, as the "m=" section and SDP attributes associated
with the "m=" section contain information needed to process the packets.

 be possible to associate

MUST

As all RTP streams associated with a BUNDLE group use the same transport for sending and
receiving RTP/RTCP packets, the local address:port combination part of the transport cannot be
used to associate an RTP stream with the correct "m=" section. In addition, multiple RTP streams
might be associated with the same "m=" section.

[RFC5576]

An oﬀerer and answerer can inform each other which SSRC values they will use for an RTP stream
by using the SDP 'ssrc' attribute
the answerer will use until the oﬀerer has received the answer providing that information. Due to
this, before the oﬀerer has received the answer, the oﬀerer will not be able to associate an RTP
stream with the correct "m=" section using the SSRC value associated with the RTP stream. In
addition, the oﬀerer and answerer may start using new SSRC values mid-session, without
informing each other about using the SDP 'ssrc' attribute.

. However, an oﬀerer will not know which SSRC values

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

In order for an oﬀerer and answerer to always be able to associate an RTP stream with the
correct "m=" section, the oﬀerer and answerer using the BUNDLE extension
 support the
mechanism deﬁned in Section 15, where the oﬀerer and answerer insert the identiﬁcation-tag
associated with an "m=" section (provided by the remote peer) into RTP and RTCP packets
associated with a BUNDLE group.

MUST

When using this mechanism, the mapping from an SSRC to an identiﬁcation-tag is carried in RTP
header extensions or RTCP SDES packets, as speciﬁed in Section 15. Since a compound RTCP
packet can contain multiple RTCP SDES packets and each RTCP SDES packet can contain multiple
chunks, a single RTCP packet can contain several mappings of SSRC to identiﬁcation-tag. The
oﬀerer and answerer maintain tables used for routing that are updated each time an RTP/RTCP
packet contains new information that aﬀects how packets are to be routed.

However, some legacy implementations may not include this identiﬁcation-tag in their RTP and
RTCP traﬃc when using the BUNDLE mechanism and instead use a mechanism based on the
payload type to associate RTP streams with SDP "m=" sections. In this situation, each "m=" section
needs to use unique payload type values in order for the payload type to be a reliable indicator of
the relevant "m=" section for the RTP stream. If an implementation fails to ensure unique payload
type values, it will be impossible to associate the RTP stream using that payload type value to a
particular "m=" section. Note that when using the payload type to associate RTP streams with "m="
sections, an RTP stream, identiﬁed by its SSRC, will be mapped to an "m=" section when the ﬁrst
packet of that RTP stream is received, and the mapping will not be changed even if the payload
type used by that RTP stream changes. In other words, the SSRC cannot "move" to a diﬀerent "m="
section simply by changing the payload type.

Applications can implement RTP stacks in diﬀerent ways. The algorithm below details one way
that RTP streams can be associated with "m=" sections, but it is not meant to be prescriptive about
exactly how an RTP stack needs to be implemented. Applications
MAY
achieves equivalent results to those described in the algorithm below.

 use any algorithm that

To prepare to associate RTP streams with the correct "m=" section, the following steps
followed for each BUNDLE group:

MUST

 be

•

Construct a table mapping a MID to an "m=" section for each "m=" section in this BUNDLE
group. Note that an "m=" section may only have one MID.

•

Construct a table mapping SSRCs of incoming RTP streams to an "m=" section for each "m="
section in this BUNDLE group and for each SSRC conﬁgured for receiving in that "m=" section.

•

Construct a table mapping the SSRC of each outgoing RTP stream to an "m=" section for each
"m=" section in this BUNDLE group and for each SSRC conﬁgured for sending in that "m="
section.

•

Construct a table mapping a payload type to an "m=" section for each "m=" section in the
BUNDLE group and for each payload type conﬁgured for receiving in that "m=" section. If any
payload type is conﬁgured for receiving in more than one "m=" section in the BUNDLE group,
do not include it in the table, as it cannot be used to uniquely identify an "m=" section.

•

Note that for each of these tables, there can only be one mapping for any given key (MID,
SSRC, or PT). In other words, the tables are not multimaps.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

As "m=" sections are added or removed from the BUNDLE groups or their conﬁgurations are
changed, the tables above

 also be updated.

MUST

When an RTP packet is received, it
That RTP stream
for additional processing, according to the following steps:

MUST

MUST

 then be associated with the correct "m=" section within a BUNDLE group

 be delivered to the RTP stream corresponding to its SSRC.

•

If the MID associated with the RTP stream is not in the table mapping a MID to an "m="
section, then the RTP stream is not decoded, and the payload data is discarded.

•

If the packet has a MID and the packet's extended sequence number is greater than that of
the last MID update, as discussed in
the RTP stream to match the MID carried in the RTP packet and then update the mapping
tables to include an entry that maps the SSRC of that RTP stream to the "m=" section for that
MID.

, update the MID associated with

[RFC7941], Section 4.2.6

•

If the SSRC of the RTP stream is in the incoming SSRC mapping table, check that the payload
type used by the RTP stream matches a payload type included in the matching "m=" section. If
so, associate the RTP stream with that "m=" section. Otherwise, the RTP stream is not decoded,
and the payload data is discarded.

•

If the payload type used by the RTP stream is in the payload type table, update the incoming
SSRC mapping table to include an entry that maps the RTP stream's SSRC to the "m=" section
for that payload type. Associate the RTP stream with the corresponding "m=" section.

•

Otherwise, mark the RTP stream as "not for decoding" and discard the payload.

If the RTP packet contains one or more contributing source (CSRC) identiﬁers, then each CSRC is
looked up in the incoming SSRC table, and a copy of the RTP packet is associated with the
corresponding "m=" section for additional processing.

For each RTCP packet received (including each RTCP packet that is part of a compound RTCP
packet), the packet is processed as usual by the RTP layer, then associated with the appropriate
"m=" sections and processed for the RTP streams represented by those "m=" sections. This routing
is type dependent, as each kind of RTCP packet has its own mechanism for associating it with the
relevant RTP streams.

RTCP packets that cannot be associated with an appropriate "m=" section
as usual by the RTP layer, which updates the metadata associated with the corresponding RTP
streams. This situation can occur with certain multiparty RTP topologies or when RTCP packets
are sent containing a subset of the SDES information.

 still be processed

MUST

Additional rules for processing various types of RTCP packets are explained below.

•

If the RTCP packet is of type SDES, for each chunk in the packet whose SSRC is found in the
incoming SSRC table, deliver a copy of the SDES packet to the "m=" section associated with
that SSRC. In addition, for any SDES MID items contained in these chunks, if the MID is found
in the table mapping a MID to an "m=" section, update the incoming SSRC table to include an
entry that maps the RTP stream associated with the chunk's SSRC to the "m=" section
associated with that MID, unless the packet is older than the packet that most recently
updated the mapping for this SSRC, as discussed in

.
[RFC7941], Section 4.2.6

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

•

Note that if an SDES packet is received as part of a compound RTCP packet, the SSRC to "m="
section mapping might not exist until the SDES packet is handled (e.g., in the case where RTCP
for a source is received before any RTP packets). Therefore, it can be beneﬁcial for an
implementation to delay RTCP packet routing, such that it either prioritizes processing of the
SDES item to generate or update the mapping or buﬀers the RTCP information that needs to
be routed until the SDES item(s) has been processed. If the implementation is unable to follow
this recommendation, the consequence could be that some RTCP information from this
particular RTCP compound packet is not provided to higher layers. The impact from this is
likely minor when this information relates to a future incoming RTP stream.

•

If the RTCP packet is of type BYE, it indicates that the RTP streams referenced in the packet are
ending. Therefore, for each SSRC indicated in the packet that is found in the incoming SSRC
table, ﬁrst deliver a copy of the BYE packet to the "m=" section associated with that SSRC, and
then remove the entry for that SSRC from the incoming SSRC table after an appropriate delay
to account for "straggler packets", as speciﬁed in

[RFC3550], Section 6.2.1
.

•

If the RTCP packet is of type sender report (SR) or receiver report (RR), for each report block
in the report whose "SSRC of source" is found in the outgoing SSRC table, deliver a copy of the
SR or RR packet to the "m=" section associated with that SSRC. In addition, if the packet is of
type SR and the sender SSRC for the packet is found in the incoming SSRC table, deliver a copy
of the SR packet to the "m=" section associated with that SSRC.

•

[RFC3611]

If the implementation supports the RTCP Extended Report (XR) and the packet is of type XR,
as deﬁned in
the outgoing SSRC table, deliver a copy of the XR packet to the "m=" section associated with
that SSRC. In addition, if the sender SSRC for the packet is found in the incoming SSRC table,
deliver a copy of the XR packet to the "m=" section associated with that SSRC.

, for each report block in the report whose "SSRC of source" is found in

•

If the RTCP packet is a feedback message of type RTPFB (transport-layer FB message) or PSFB
(payload-speciﬁc FB message), as deﬁned in
and this SSRC is used for routing certain subtypes of feedback messages. However, several
subtypes of PSFB and RTPFB messages include a target SSRC(s) in a section called Feedback
Control Information (FCI). For these messages, the target SSRC(s) is used for routing.

, it will contain a media source SSRC,

[RFC4585]

•

If the RTCP packet is a feedback packet that does not include target SSRCs in its FCI section,
and the media source SSRC is found in the outgoing SSRC table, deliver the feedback packet to
the "m=" section associated with that SSRC. RTPFB and PSFB types that are handled in this way
include:
Generic NACK:

(PT=RTPFB, FMT=1)

[RFC4585]

Picture Loss Indication (PLI):

(PT=PSFB, FMT=1)

[RFC4585]

Slice Loss Indication (SLI):

(PT=PSFB, FMT=2)

[RFC4585]

Reference Picture Selection Indication (RPSI):

(PT=PSFB, FMT=3)

[RFC4585]

•

If the RTCP packet is a feedback message that does include a target SSRC(s) in its FCI section, it
can either be a request or a notiﬁcation. Requests reference an RTP stream that is being sent
by the message recipient, whereas notiﬁcations are responses to an earlier request and
therefore reference an RTP stream that is being received by the message recipient.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

•

If the RTCP packet is a feedback request that includes a target SSRC(s), for each target SSRC
that is found in the outgoing SSRC table, deliver a copy of the RTCP packet to the "m=" section
associated with that SSRC. PSFB and RTPFB types that are handled in this way include:
Full Intra Request (FIR):

(PT=PSFB, FMT=4)

[RFC5104]

Temporal-Spatial Trade-oﬀ Request (TSTR):

(PT=PSFB, FMT=5)

[RFC5104]

H.271 Video Back Channel Message (VBCM):

(PT=PSFB, FMT=7)

[RFC5104]

Temporary Maximum Media Stream Bit Rate Request (TMMBR):

(PT=RTPFB, FMT=3)

[RFC5104]

Layer Refresh Request (LRR):

(PT=PSFB, FMT=10)

[LLR-RTCP]

.

•

If the RTCP packet is a feedback notiﬁcation that includes a target SSRC(s), for each target
SSRC that is found in the incoming SSRC table, deliver a copy of the RTCP packet to the "m="
section associated with the RTP stream with a matching SSRC. PSFB and RTPFB types that are
handled in this way include:
Temporal-Spatial Trade-oﬀ Notiﬁcation (TSTN):
is a notiﬁcation in response to a prior TSTR.

(PT=PSFB, FMT=6)

. This message

[RFC5104]

Temporary Maximum Media Stream Bit Rate Notiﬁcation (TMMBN):

(PT=RTPFB, FMT=4)
. This message is a notiﬁcation in response to a prior TMMBR, but it can also be

[RFC5104]
sent unsolicited.

If the RTCP packet is of type APP, then it is handled in an application-speciﬁc manner. If the
application does not recognize the APP packet, then it

 be discarded.

MUST

9.3.  RTP/RTCP Multiplexing

Within a BUNDLE group, the oﬀerer and answerer
for the RTP-based bundled media (i.e., the same transport will be used for both RTP packets and
RTCP packets). In addition, the oﬀerer and answerer
attribute

 support the SDP 'rtcp-mux-only'

 enable RTP/RTCP multiplexing

[RFC8858]

MUST

MUST

.

[RFC5761]

9.3.1.  SDP Oﬀer/Answer Procedures

This section describes how an oﬀerer and answerer use the SDP 'rtcp-mux'
'rtcp-mux-only' attributes
bundled media.

[RFC8858]

 to negotiate usage of RTP/RTCP multiplexing for RTP-based

[RFC5761]

 and SDP

RTP/RTCP multiplexing only applies to RTP-based media. However, as described in Section 7.1.3,
within an oﬀer or answer, the SDP 'rtcp-mux' and SDP 'rtcp-mux-only' attributes might be
included in a bundled "m=" section for non-RTP-based media (if such an "m=" section is the
oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section or answerer-tagged "m=" section).

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

9.3.1.1.  Generating the Initial BUNDLE Oﬀer

When an oﬀerer generates an initial BUNDLE oﬀer, if the oﬀer contains one or more bundled
"m=" sections for RTP-based media (or if there is a chance that "m=" sections for RTP-based media
will later be added to the BUNDLE group), the oﬀerer
[RFC5761]
the oﬀerer
sections for RTP-based media.

 include an SDP 'rtcp-mux' attribute
 in each bundled "m=" section (excluding any bundle-only "m=" sections). In addition,
 in one or more bundled "m="
MAY

 include an SDP 'rtcp-mux-only' attribute

[RFC8858]

MUST

NOTE: Whether the oﬀerer includes the SDP 'rtcp-mux-only' attribute depends on whether the
oﬀerer supports fallback to usage of a separate port for RTCP in case the answerer moves one
or more "m=" sections for RTP-based media out of the BUNDLE group in the answer.

NOTE: If the oﬀerer includes an SDP 'rtcp-mux' attribute in the bundled "m=" sections but does
not include an SDP 'rtcp-mux-only' attribute, the oﬀerer can also include an SDP 'rtcp'
attribute
fallback port for RTCP, as described in
applied to "m=" sections for RTP-based media that are moved out of the BUNDLE group by the
answerer.

 in one or more RTP-based bundled "m=" sections in order to provide a

. However, the fallback port will only be

[RFC3605]

[RFC5761]

In the initial BUNDLE oﬀer, the address:port combination for RTCP
bundled "m=" section for RTP-based media (excluding a bundle-only "m=" section), similar to RTP.

 be unique in each

MUST

9.3.1.2.  Generating the SDP Answer

MUST

 enable usage of RTP/RTCP multiplexing, even if there currently are no bundled

When an answerer generates an answer, if the answerer supports RTP-based media and if a
bundled "m=" section in the corresponding oﬀer contained an SDP 'rtcp-mux' attribute, the
answerer
"m=" sections for RTP-based media within the BUNDLE group. The answerer
'rtcp-mux' attribute in the answerer-tagged "m=" section, following the procedures for BUNDLE
attributes (Section 7.1.3). In addition, if the "m=" section that is selected as the oﬀerer-tagged "m="
 include an SDP 'rtcp-mux-
section contained an SDP 'rtcp-mux-only' attribute, the answerer
only' attribute in the answerer-tagged "m=" section.

 include an SDP

MUST

MUST

In an initial BUNDLE oﬀer, if the suggested oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section contained an SDP 'rtcp-
mux-only' attribute, the "m=" section was for RTP-based media. If the answerer does not accept
the "m=" section in the created BUNDLE group and moves the "m=" section out of the BUNDLE
group (Section 7.3.2), the answerer
 include the attribute in the moved "m=" section and
enable RTP/RTCP multiplexing for the media associated with the "m=" section. If the answerer
rejects the "m=" section (Section 7.3.3), the answerer

 include the attribute.

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST NOT

The answerer
The answerer will use the port value of the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section sending RTP and RTCP
packets associated with RTP-based bundled media towards the oﬀerer.

 include an SDP 'rtcp' attribute in any bundled "m=" section in the answer.

If the usage of RTP/RTCP multiplexing within a BUNDLE group has been negotiated in a previous
oﬀer/answer exchange, the answerer
 include an SDP 'rtcp-mux' attribute in the answerer-
tagged "m=" section. It is not possible to disable RTP/RTCP multiplexing within a BUNDLE group.

MUST

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

9.3.1.3.  Oﬀerer Processing of the SDP Answer

When an oﬀerer receives an answer, if the answerer has accepted the usage of RTP/RTCP
multiplexing (Section 9.3.1.2), the answerer follows the procedures for RTP/RTCP multiplexing
. The oﬀerer will use the port value of the answerer-tagged "m=" section for
deﬁned in
sending RTP and RTCP packets associated with RTP-based bundled media towards the answerer.

[RFC5761]

NOTE: It is considered a protocol error if the answerer has not accepted the usage of RTP/RTCP
multiplexing for RTP-based "m=" sections that the answerer included in the BUNDLE group.

9.3.1.4.  Modifying the Session

When an oﬀerer generates a subsequent oﬀer, the oﬀerer
attribute in the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section, following the procedures for IDENTICAL multiplexing
category attributes in Section 7.1.3.

 include an SDP 'rtcp-mux'

MUST

10.  ICE Considerations

This section describes how to use the BUNDLE grouping extension together with the ICE
mechanism

[RFC8445]

.

The generic procedures for negotiating the usage of ICE using SDP, deﬁned in
to the usage of ICE with BUNDLE, with the following exceptions:

[RFC8839]

, also apply

•

When the BUNDLE transport has been established, ICE connectivity checks and keepalives
only need to be performed for the BUNDLE transport, instead of per individual bundled "m="
section within the BUNDLE group.

•

The generic SDP attribute oﬀer/answer considerations (Section 7.1.3) also apply to ICE-related
attributes. Therefore, when an oﬀerer sends an initial BUNDLE oﬀer (in order to negotiate a
BUNDLE group), the oﬀerer includes ICE-related media-level attributes in each bundled "m="
section (excluding any bundle-only "m=" sections), and each "m=" section
unique ICE properties. When an answerer generates an answer (initial BUNDLE answer or
subsequent) that contains a BUNDLE group and when an oﬀerer sends a subsequent oﬀer
that contains a BUNDLE group, ICE-related media-level attributes are only included in the
tagged "m=" section (suggested oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section or answerer-tagged "m=" section),
and the ICE properties are applied to each bundled "m=" section within the BUNDLE group.

 contain

MUST

[RFC8859]

NOTE: Most ICE-related media-level SDP attributes belong to the TRANSPORT multiplexing
category
TRANSPORT multiplexing category apply to the attributes. However, in the case of ICE-related
attributes, the same considerations also apply to ICE-related media-level attributes that belong
to other multiplexing categories.

, and the generic SDP attribute oﬀer/answer considerations for the

:
NOTE: The following ICE-related media-level SDP attributes are deﬁned in
'candidate', 'remote-candidates', 'ice-mismatch', 'ice-ufrag', 'ice-pwd', and 'ice-pacing'.

[RFC8839]

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

Initially, before ICE has produced selected candidate pairs that will be used for media, there might
be multiple transports established (if multiple candidate pairs are tested). Once ICE has selected
candidate pairs, they form the BUNDLE transport.

Support and usage of the ICE mechanism together with the BUNDLE extension is
the procedures in this section only apply when the ICE mechanism is used. Note that applications
might mandate usage of the ICE mechanism even if the BUNDLE extension is not used.

OPTIONAL

, and

[RFC8840]

 is used, an oﬀerer and answerer might assign a
NOTE: If the Trickle ICE mechanism
port value of '9' and an IPv4 address of '0.0.0.0' (or, the IPv6 equivalent '::') to multiple bundled
"m=" sections in the initial BUNDLE oﬀer. The oﬀerer and answerer will follow the normal
procedures for generating the oﬀers and answers, including picking a bundled "m=" section as
the suggested oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section, selecting the tagged "m=" sections, etc. The only
diﬀerence is that media cannot be sent until one or more candidates have been provided.
Once a BUNDLE group has been negotiated, trickled candidates associated with a bundled
"m=" section will be applied to all bundled "m=" sections within the BUNDLE group.

11.  DTLS Considerations

One or more media streams within a BUNDLE group might use the DTLS protocol
order to encrypt the data or negotiate encryption keys if another encryption mechanism is used
to encrypt media.

[RFC6347]

 in

When DTLS is used within a BUNDLE group, the following rules apply:

•

There can only be one DTLS association

[RFC6347]

 associated with the BUNDLE group;

•

Each usage of the DTLS association within the BUNDLE group
for determining which endpoints (the oﬀerer or answerer) become DTLS client and DTLS
server;

 use the same mechanism

MUST

•

Each usage of the DTLS association within the BUNDLE group
for determining whether an oﬀer or answer will trigger the establishment of a new DTLS
association or if an existing DTLS association will be used instead; and

 use the same mechanism

MUST

•

If the DTLS client supports DTLS-SRTP, it
ClientHello message
DTLS-SRTP is not negotiated as part of the multimedia session (e.g., the SIP session

 include the 'use_srtp' extension in the DTLS
 include the extension even if the usage of

. The client

[RFC5764]

MUST

MUST

[RFC3261]

).

NOTE: The inclusion of the 'use_srtp' extension during the initial DTLS handshake ensures that
a DTLS renegotiation will not be required in order to include the extension in case DTLS-SRTP
encrypted media is added to the BUNDLE group later during the multimedia session.

12.  RTP Header Extensions Consideration

When RTP header extensions
used for a given extension
descriptions.

[RFC8285]

 are used in the context of this speciﬁcation, the identiﬁer

MUST

 identify the same extension across all the bundled media

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

13.  Updates to RFC 3264

This section updates
value in oﬀers and answers for purposes other than removing or disabling media streams. The
following sections are being updated:

 in order to allow extensions to deﬁne the usage of a zero port

[RFC3264]

•

"Unicast Streams"; see

Section 5.1 of [RFC3264]

.

•

"Putting a Unicast Media Stream on Hold"; see

Section 8.4 of [RFC3264]

.

13.1.  Original Text from RFC 3264, Section 5.1, Paragraph 2

For recvonly and sendrecv streams, the port number and address in the oﬀer indicate
where the oﬀerer would like to receive the media stream. For sendonly RTP streams, the
address and port number indirectly indicate where the oﬀerer wants to receive RTCP
reports. Unless there is an explicit indication otherwise, reports are sent to the port
number one higher than the number indicated. The IP address and port present in the
oﬀer indicate nothing about the source IP address and source port of RTP and RTCP
packets that will be sent by the oﬀerer. A port number of zero in the oﬀer indicates that
the stream is oﬀered but
 be used. This has no useful semantics in an initial
oﬀer, but is allowed for reasons of completeness, since the answer can contain a zero
port indicating a rejected stream (Section 6). Furthermore, existing streams can be
terminated by setting the port to zero (Section 8). In general, a port number of zero
indicates that the media stream is not wanted.

MUST NOT

13.2.  New Text Replacing RFC 3264, Section 5.1, Paragraph 2

For recvonly and sendrecv streams, the port number and address in the oﬀer indicate
where the oﬀerer would like to receive the media stream. For sendonly RTP streams, the
address and port number indirectly indicate where the oﬀerer wants to receive RTCP
reports. Unless there is an explicit indication otherwise, reports are sent to the port
number one higher than the number indicated. The IP address and port present in the
oﬀer indicate nothing about the source IP address and source port of the RTP and RTCP
packets that will be sent by the oﬀerer. By default, a port number of zero in the oﬀer
indicates that the stream is oﬀered but
might specify diﬀerent semantics for the usage of a zero port value. Furthermore,
existing streams can be terminated by setting the port to zero (Section 8). In general, a
port number of zero by default indicates that the media stream is not wanted.

 be used, but an extension mechanism

MUST NOT

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

13.3.  Original Text from RFC 3264, Section 8.4, Paragraph 6

RFC 2543 [10] speciﬁed that placing a user on hold was accomplished by setting the
connection address to 0.0.0.0. Its usage for putting a call on hold is no longer
recommended, since it doesn't allow for RTCP to be used with held streams, doesn't work
with IPv6, and breaks with connection oriented media. However, it can be useful in an
initial oﬀer when the oﬀerer knows it wants to use a particular set of media streams and
formats, but doesn't know the addresses and ports at the time of the oﬀer. Of course,
when used, the port number
been disabled. An agent
0.0.0.0, in which case it means that neither RTP nor RTCP should be sent to the peer.

 be zero, which would specify that the stream has
 be capable of receiving SDP with a connection address of

MUST NOT

MUST

13.4.  New Text Replacing RFC 3264, Section 8.4, Paragraph 6

[RFC2543]

 speciﬁes that placing a user on hold was accomplished by setting the

RFC 2543
connection address to 0.0.0.0. Its usage for putting a call on hold is no longer
recommended, since it doesn't allow for RTCP to be used with held streams, doesn't work
with IPv6, and breaks with connection oriented media. However, it can be useful in an
initial oﬀer when the oﬀerer knows it wants to use a particular set of media streams and
formats, but doesn't know the addresses and ports at the time of the oﬀer. Of course,
when used, the port number
 be zero, if it would specify that the stream has
been disabled. However, an extension mechanism might specify diﬀerent semantics of
the zero port number usage. An agent
connection address of 0.0.0.0, in which case it means that neither RTP nor RTCP is to be
sent to the peer.

 be capable of receiving SDP with a

MUST NOT

MUST

14.  Update to RFC 5888

This section updates RFC 5888
containing an identiﬁcation-tag that identiﬁes an "m=" section with the port set to zero. "Group
Value in Answers" (

 in order for extensions to allow an SDP 'group' attribute

Section 9.2 of [RFC5888]

) is updated.

[RFC5888]

14.1.  Original Text from RFC 5888, Section 9.2, Paragraph 3

SIP entities refuse media streams by setting the port to zero in the corresponding "m"
line. "a=group" lines
with the port set to zero.

 contain identiﬁcation-tags that correspond to "m" lines

MUST NOT

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

14.2.  New Text Replacing RFC 5888, Section 9.2, Paragraph 3

SIP entities refuse media streams by setting the port to zero in the corresponding "m"
line. "a=group" lines
with the port set to zero, but an extension mechanism might specify diﬀerent semantics
for including identiﬁcation-tags that correspond to such "m=" lines.

 contain identiﬁcation-tags that correspond to "m" lines

MUST NOT

15.  RTP/RTCP Extensions for identiﬁcation-tag Transport

Oﬀerers and answerers
oﬀers and answers using the procedures in
an "m=" section.

[RFC3264]

 can associate identiﬁcation-tags with "m=" sections within

[RFC5888]

. Each identiﬁcation-tag uniquely represents

This section deﬁnes a new RTCP SDES item
tags within RTCP SDES packets. This section also deﬁnes a new RTP SDES header extension
[RFC7941]

, which is used to carry the 'MID' RTCP SDES item in RTP packets.

, 'MID', which is used to carry identiﬁcation-

[RFC3550]

The SDES item and RTP SDES header extension make it possible for a receiver to associate each
RTP stream with a speciﬁc "m=" section with which the receiver has associated an identiﬁcation-
tag, even if those "m=" sections are part of the same RTP session. The RTP SDES header extension
also ensures that the media recipient gets the identiﬁcation-tag upon receipt of the ﬁrst decodable
media and is able to associate the media with the correct application.

A media recipient informs the media sender about the identiﬁcation-tag associated with an "m="
section through the use of a 'mid' attribute
[RFC5888]
identiﬁcation-tag in RTCP and RTP packets sent to the media recipient.

. The media sender then inserts the

NOTE: The text above deﬁnes how identiﬁcation-tags are carried in oﬀers and answers. The
usage of other signaling protocols for carrying identiﬁcation-tags is not prevented, but the
usage of such protocols is outside the scope of this document.

 deﬁnes general procedures regarding the RTCP transmission interval. The RTCP MID
 be sent in the ﬁrst few RTCP packets after joining the session and
SHOULD

[RFC3550]
SDES item
SHOULD
sent regularly thereafter. The exact number of RTCP packets in which this SDES item is sent is
intentionally not speciﬁed here, as it will depend on the expected packet-loss rate, the RTCP
reporting interval, and the allowable overhead.

 be

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

The RTP SDES header extension for carrying the 'MID' RTCP SDES
RTP packets at the start of the session and whenever the SSRC changes. It might also be useful to
include the header extension in RTP packets that comprise access points in the media (e.g., with
video I-frames). The exact number of RTP packets in which this header extension is sent is
intentionally not speciﬁed here, as it will depend on expected packet-loss rate and loss patterns,
the overhead the application can tolerate, and the importance of immediate receipt of the
identiﬁcation-tag.

 be included in some

SHOULD

For robustness, endpoints need to be prepared for situations where the reception of the
identiﬁcation-tag is delayed and
identiﬁcation-tag is likely to arrive soon.

 terminate sessions in such cases, as the

SHOULD NOT

15.1.  RTCP MID SDES Item

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |      MID=15   |     length    | identification-tag          ...
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The identiﬁcation-tag payload is UTF-8 encoded

[RFC3629]

, as in SDP.

The identiﬁcation-tag is not zero terminated.

15.2.  RTP SDES Header Extension for MID

The payload, containing the identiﬁcation-tag, of the RTP SDES header extension element can be
. The identiﬁcation-tag payload is
encoded using either the 1-byte or the 2-byte header
UTF-8 encoded, as in SDP.

[RFC7941]

The identiﬁcation-tag is not zero terminated. Note that the set of header extensions included in
the packet needs to be padded to the next 32-bit boundary using zero bytes

[RFC8285]

.

As the identiﬁcation-tag is included in an RTCP SDES item, an RTP SDES header extension, or both,
there needs to be some consideration about the packet expansion caused by the identiﬁcation-
tag. To avoid Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) issues for the RTP packets, the header
extension's size needs to be taken into account when encoding the media.

It is recommended that the identiﬁcation-tag be kept short. Due to the properties of the RTP
header extension mechanism, when using the 1-byte header, a tag that is 1-3 bytes will result in a
minimal number of 32-bit words used for the RTP SDES header extension, in case no other header
extensions are included at the same time. Note: do take into account that some single characters
when UTF-8 encoded will result in multiple octets. The identiﬁcation-tag
user information, and applications
that enables user or application identiﬁcation.

 avoid generating the identiﬁcation-tag using a pattern

 contain any

MUST NOT

SHALL

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

16.  IANA Considerations

NOTE: Apart from the references, the IANA considerations in this section are identical to those in
[RFC8843]

.

16.1.  SDES Item

This document updates the MID SDES entry in the "RTP SDES Item Types" registry as follows:

15

Value:
Abbrev.:
Name:
Reference:

MID

Media Identiﬁcation

RFC 9143

16.2.  RTP SDES Header Extension URI

This document updates the extension URI in the "RTP SDES Compact Header Extensions"
subregistry of the "RTP Compact Header Extensions" sub-registry, according to the following data:

urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

Extension URI:
Description:
Contact:
Reference:

Media identiﬁcation

IESG (iesg@ietf.org)

RFC 9143

The SDES item does not reveal privacy information about the users. It is simply used to associate
RTP-based media with the correct SDP media description ("m=" section) in the SDP used to
negotiate the media.

The purpose of the extension is for the oﬀerer to be able to associate received multiplexed RTP-
based media before the oﬀerer receives the associated answer.

16.3.  SDP Attribute

This document updates the SDP media-level attribute, 'bundle-only', in the "attribute-name
(formerly 'att-ﬁeld')" subregistry of the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry
according to the following data:

Attribute name:
Type of attribute:
Subject to charset:
Purpose:

bundle-only

media
No

Request a media description to be accepted in the answer only if kept within a

BUNDLE group by the answerer.

Appropriate values:
Contact name:

IESG

N/A

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

Contact e-mail:
Reference:
Mux category:

RFC 9143

NORMAL

iesg@ietf.org

16.4.  SDP Group Semantics

This document updates the following semantics in the "Semantics for the 'group' SDP Attribute"
subregistry (under the "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry):

Semantics

Token

Mux Category

Reference

Media bundling

BUNDLE NORMAL

RFC 9143

Table 1: Update to SDP Group Semantics

17.  Security Considerations

 and

[RFC3264]

[RFC5888]

 apply to the BUNDLE extension.

The security considerations deﬁned in
BUNDLE does not change which information, e.g., RTP streams, ﬂows over the network, except for
the usage of the MID SDES item as discussed below. Primarily, it changes which addresses and
ports, and thus in which (RTP) sessions, the information ﬂows to. This aﬀects the security contexts
being used and can cause previously separated information ﬂows to share the same security
context. This has very little impact on the performance of the security mechanism of the RTP
sessions. In cases where one would have applied diﬀerent security policies on the diﬀerent RTP
streams being bundled or where the parties having access to the security contexts would have
diﬀered between the RTP streams, additional analysis of the implications is needed before
selecting to apply BUNDLE.

SHOULD

 be generated in a fashion that does not leak user information, e.g., randomly or using a per-
 be 3 bytes or fewer to allow them to eﬃciently ﬁt into the MID

The identiﬁcation-tag, independent of transport, RTCP SDES packet, or RTP header extension, can
expose the value to parties beyond the signaling chain. Therefore, the identiﬁcation-tag values
MUST
bundle group counter, and
RTP header extension. Note that if implementations use diﬀerent methods for generating
identiﬁcation-tags, this could enable ﬁngerprinting of the implementation, making it vulnerable
to targeted attacks. The identiﬁcation-tag is exposed on the RTP stream level when included in the
RTP header extensions; however, what it reveals of the RTP media stream structure of the
endpoint and application was already possible to deduce from the RTP streams without the MID
SDES header extensions. As the identiﬁcation-tag is also used to route the media stream to the
right application functionality, it is important that the value received is the one intended by the
sender; thus, integrity and the authenticity of the source are important to prevent denial of
service on the application. Existing SRTP conﬁgurations and other security mechanisms
protecting the whole RTP/RTCP packets will provide the necessary protection.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

When the BUNDLE extension is used, the set of conﬁgurations of the security mechanism used in
all the bundled media descriptions will need to be compatible so that they can be used
simultaneously, at least per direction or endpoint. When using SRTP, this will be the case, at least
for the IETF-deﬁned key-management solutions due to their SDP attributes ("a=crypto",
"a=ﬁngerprint", "a=mikey") and their classiﬁcation in

[RFC8859]

.

[RFC7941]

 require that when RTCP is conﬁdentiality protected, any SDES RTP

The security considerations of "RTP Header Extension for the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Source
Description Items"
header extension carrying an SDES item, such as the MID RTP header extension, is also protected
using commensurate strength algorithms. However, assuming the above requirements and
recommendations are followed, there are no known signiﬁcant security risks with leaving the
MID RTP header extension without conﬁdentiality protection. Therefore, this speciﬁcation
updates
header extension. Security mechanisms for RTP/RTCP are discussed in "Options for Securing RTP
Sessions"
ensuring the integrity and source authenticity.

 by adding the exception that this requirement

 can provide the necessary security functions of

 be ignored for the MID RTP

; for example, SRTP

[RFC3711]

[RFC7941]

[RFC7201]

MAY

18.  Examples

18.1.  Example: Tagged "m=" Section Selections

The example below shows:

•

An initial BUNDLE oﬀer, in which the oﬀerer wants to negotiate a BUNDLE group and
indicates the audio "m=" section as the suggested oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section.

•

An initial BUNDLE answer, in which the answerer accepts the creation of the BUNDLE group,
selects the audio "m=" section in the oﬀer as the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section, selects the audio
"m=" section in the answer as the answerer-tagged "m=" section, and assigns the answerer
BUNDLE address:port to that "m=" section.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Oﬀer (1)

    v=0
    o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP6 2001:db8::3
    s=
    c=IN IP6 2001:db8::3
    t=0 0
    a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

    m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 0 8 97
    b=AS:200
    a=mid:foo
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
    a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000
    a=rtpmap:97 iLBC/8000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 10002 RTP/AVP 31 32
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:bar
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
    a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

SDP Answer (2)

    v=0
    o=bob 2808844564 2808844564 IN IP6 2001:db8::1
    s=
    c=IN IP6 2001:db8::1
    t=0 0
    a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

    m=audio 20000 RTP/AVP 0
    b=AS:200
    a=mid:foo
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 20000 RTP/AVP 32
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:bar
    a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

18.2.  Example: BUNDLE Group Rejected

The example below shows:

•

An initial BUNDLE oﬀer, in which the oﬀerer wants to negotiate a BUNDLE group and
indicates the audio "m=" section as the suggested oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section.

•

An initial BUNDLE answer, in which the answerer rejects the creation of the BUNDLE group,
generates a normal answer, and assigns a unique address:port to each "m=" section in the
answer.

SDP Oﬀer (1)

    v=0
    o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP6 2001:db8::3
    s=
    c=IN IP6 2001:db8::3
    t=0 0
    a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

    m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 0 8 97
    b=AS:200
    a=mid:foo
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
    a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000
    a=rtpmap:97 iLBC/8000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 10002 RTP/AVP 31 32
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:bar
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
    a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Answer (2)

    v=0
    o=bob 2808844564 2808844564 IN IP6 2001:db8::1
    s=
    c=IN IP6 2001:db8::1
    t=0 0

    m=audio 20000 RTP/AVP 0
    b=AS:200
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000

    m=video 30000 RTP/AVP 32
    b=AS:1000
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000

18.3.  Example: Oﬀerer Adds a Media Description to a BUNDLE Group

The example below shows:

•

A subsequent oﬀer, in which the oﬀerer adds a new bundled "m=" section (video), indicated by
the "zen" identiﬁcation-tag, to a previously negotiated BUNDLE group; indicates the new "m="
section as the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section; and assigns the oﬀerer BUNDLE address:port to
that "m=" section.

•

A subsequent answer, in which the answerer indicates the new video "m=" section in the
answer as the answerer-tagged "m=" section and assigns the answerer BUNDLE address:port
to that "m=" section.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Oﬀer (1)

    v=0
    o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP6 2001:db8::3
    s=
    c=IN IP6 2001:db8::3
    t=0 0
    a=group:BUNDLE zen foo bar

    m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 0 8 97
    b=AS:200
    a=mid:foo
    a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
    a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000
    a=rtpmap:97 iLBC/8000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 10000 RTP/AVP 31 32
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:bar
    a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
    a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 10000 RTP/AVP 66
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:zen
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:66 H261/90000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Answer (2)

    v=0
    o=bob 2808844564 2808844564 IN IP6 2001:db8::1
    s=
    c=IN IP6 2001:db8::1
    t=0 0
    a=group:BUNDLE zen foo bar

    m=audio 20000 RTP/AVP 0
    b=AS:200
    a=mid:foo
    a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 20000 RTP/AVP 32
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:bar
    a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 20000 RTP/AVP 66
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:zen
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:66 H261/90000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

18.4.  Example: Oﬀerer Moves a Media Description Out of a BUNDLE Group

The example below shows:

•

A subsequent oﬀer, in which the oﬀerer removes an "m=" section (video), indicated by the
"zen" identiﬁcation-tag, from a previously negotiated BUNDLE group; indicates one of the
bundled "m=" sections (audio) remaining in the BUNDLE group as the oﬀerer-tagged "m="
section; and assigns the oﬀerer BUNDLE address:port to that "m=" section.

•

A subsequent answer, in which the answerer removes the "m=" section from the BUNDLE
group, indicates the audio "m=" section in the answer as the answerer-tagged "m=" section,
and assigns the answerer BUNDLE address:port to that "m=" section.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Oﬀer (1)

    v=0
    o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP6 2001:db8::3
    s=
    c=IN IP6 2001:db8::3
    t=0 0
    a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

    m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 0 8 97
    b=AS:200
    a=mid:foo
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
    a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000
    a=rtpmap:97 iLBC/8000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 10000 RTP/AVP 31 32
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:bar
    a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
    a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 50000 RTP/AVP 66
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:zen
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:66 H261/90000

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Answer (2)

    v=0
    o=bob 2808844564 2808844564 IN IP6 2001:db8::1
    s=
    c=IN IP6 2001:db8::1
    t=0 0
    a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

    m=audio 20000 RTP/AVP 0
    b=AS:200
    a=mid:foo
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 20000 RTP/AVP 32
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:bar
    a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 60000 RTP/AVP 66
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:zen
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:66 H261/90000

18.5.  Example: Oﬀerer Disables a Media Description within a BUNDLE
Group

The example below shows:

•

A subsequent oﬀer, in which the oﬀerer disables (by assigning a zero port value) an "m="
section (video), indicated by the "zen" identiﬁcation-tag, from a previously negotiated
BUNDLE group; indicates one of the bundled "m=" sections (audio) remaining active in the
BUNDLE group as the oﬀerer-tagged "m=" section; and assigns the oﬀerer BUNDLE
address:port to that "m=" section.

•

A subsequent answer, in which the answerer disables the "m=" section, indicates the audio
"m=" section in the answer as the answerer-tagged "m=" section, and assigns the answerer
BUNDLE address:port to that "m=" section.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Oﬀer (1)

    v=0
    o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP6 2001:db8::3
    s=
    t=0 0
    a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

    m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 0 8 97
    c=IN IP6 2001:db8::3
    b=AS:200
    a=mid:foo
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
    a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000
    a=rtpmap:97 iLBC/8000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 10000 RTP/AVP 31 32
    c=IN IP6 2001:db8::3
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:bar
    a=rtpmap:31 H261/90000
    a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 0 RTP/AVP 66
    a=mid:zen
    a=rtpmap:66 H261/90000

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Answer (2)

    v=0
    o=bob 2808844564 2808844564 IN IP6 2001:db8::1
    s=
    t=0 0
    a=group:BUNDLE foo bar

    m=audio 20000 RTP/AVP 0
    c=IN IP6 2001:db8::1
    b=AS:200
    a=mid:foo
    a=rtcp-mux
    a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 20000 RTP/AVP 32
    c=IN IP6 2001:db8::1
    b=AS:1000
    a=mid:bar
    a=rtpmap:32 MPV/90000
    a=extmap:1 urn:ietf:params:rtp-hdrext:sdes:mid

    m=video 0 RTP/AVP 66
    a=mid:zen
    a=rtpmap:66 H261/90000

19.  References

19.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3264]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3605]

[RFC3629]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

 and

Rosenberg, J.
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session

, June 2002,

,

,

,

<https://

,

Schulzrinne, H. Casner, S. Frederick, R.
,
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

, and
V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

,

,

,

,

Huitema, C. "Real Time Control Protocol (RTCP) attribute in Session Description
<https://www.rfc-
Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3605 DOI 10.17487/RFC3605
.
editor.org/info/rfc3605>

, October 2003,

,

,

Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629 DOI
10.17487/RFC3629

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3629>

, November 2003,

,

,

,

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

[RFC3711]

[RFC4566]

[RFC4961]

[RFC5761]

[RFC5764]

[RFC5888]

[RFC6347]

[RFC7941]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8285]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8839]

,

Baugher, M. McGrew, D. Naslund, M. Carrara, E.
,
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>
2004,
.

, and

,
,

K. Norrman "The Secure
,

, March

,
Handley, M. Jacobson, V.
,
RFC 4566 DOI 10.17487/RFC4566
.
rfc4566>

, and

,
C. Perkins "SDP: Session Description Protocol"

,

, July 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
Wing, D. "Symmetric RTP / RTP Control Protocol (RTCP)" BCP 131 RFC 4961 DOI
10.17487/RFC4961

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4961>

, July 2007,

,

,

,

 and
Perkins, C.
,
,
Single Port" RFC 5761 DOI 10.17487/RFC5761
.
editor.org/info/rfc5761>

,

M. Westerlund "Multiplexing RTP Data and Control Packets on a

, April 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)

McGrew, D.
,
Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)"
,
RFC 5764 DOI 10.17487/RFC5764
.
rfc5764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2010,

,

 and

,
Camarillo, G.
,
Grouping Framework" RFC 5888 DOI 10.17487/RFC5888
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5888>

,

H. Schulzrinne "The Session Description Protocol (SDP)

, June 2010,

<https://

 and

,
Rescorla, E.
,
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
.
rfc6347>

,
N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2012,

,

Westerlund, M. Burman, B. Even, R.
the RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Source Description Items" RFC 7941 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7941>
10.17487/RFC7941

, August 2016,

M. Zanaty "RTP Header Extension for

, and

,

,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

, and
Singer, D. Desineni, H.
,
,
Extensions" RFC 8285 DOI 10.17487/RFC8285
.
editor.org/info/rfc8285>

,

R. Even, Ed. "A General Mechanism for RTP Header

, October 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,
Keranen, A. Holmberg, C.
J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
<https://www.rfc-
.
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

,

,

Petit-Huguenin, M. Nandakumar, S. Holmberg, C. Keränen, A.
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer Procedures for Interactive
, January
Connectivity Establishment (ICE)" RFC 8839 DOI 10.17487/RFC8839
2021,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8839>

, and

,

,

,

,

R. Shpount

,

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

[RFC8840]

[RFC8858]

[RFC8859]

,

,

Ivov, E. Stach, T. Marocco, E.
(SIP) Usage for Incremental Provisioning of Candidates for the Interactive
Connectivity Establishment (Trickle ICE)" RFC 8840 DOI 10.17487/RFC8840
,
January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8840>
.

C. Holmberg "A Session Initiation Protocol

, and

,

,

,

,

Holmberg, C. "Indicating Exclusive Support of RTP and RTP Control Protocol
(RTCP) Multiplexing Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8858 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC8858

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8858>
.

, January 2021,

,

,

Nandakumar, S. "A Framework for Session Description Protocol (SDP) Attributes
When Multiplexing" RFC 8859 DOI 10.17487/RFC8859
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8859>
.

, January 2021,

<https://

,

,

19.2.  Informative References

[Err6431]

[Err6437]

[LLR-RTCP]

[RFC2543]

[RFC3261]

[RFC3611]

[RFC4585]

[RFC5104]

[RFC5576]

RFC Errata Erratum ID 6431 RFC 8843 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid6431>
.

,

,

,

RFC Errata Erratum ID 6437 RFC 8843 <https://www.rfc-editor.org/errata/
eid6437>
.

,

,

,

,

Lennox, J. Hong, D. Uberti, J. Holmer, S.
, and
,
Request (LRR) RTCP Feedback Message" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
,
ietf-avtext-lrr-07
avtext-lrr-07>
.

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-

M. Flodman "The Layer Refresh

, 2 July 2017,

,
,

,

,

Handley, M. Schulzrinne, H. Schooler, E.
Initiation Protocol" RFC 2543 DOI 10.17487/RFC2543
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2543>
.

, and

,

,

J. Rosenberg "SIP: Session
,
, March 1999,

<https://

,
,
Rosenberg, J. Schulzrinne, H. Camarillo, G. Johnston, A. Peterson, J. Sparks, R.
, and
Handley, M.
10.17487/RFC3261

,
,
E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
, June 2002,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,

,

,

,

,

,
Friedman, T., Ed. Caceres, R., Ed.
Extended Reports (RTCP XR)" RFC 3611 DOI 10.17487/RFC3611
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3611>

, and

,

,

,

A. Clark, Ed. "RTP Control Protocol

, November 2003,

,

,

Ott, J. Wenger, S. Sato, N. Burmeister, C.
Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" RFC
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4585>
4585 DOI 10.17487/RFC4585

J. Rey "Extended RTP Proﬁle for

, July 2006,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Wenger, S. Chandra, U. Westerlund, M.
in the RTP Audio-Visual Proﬁle with Feedback (AVPF)" RFC 5104 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5104

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5104>

B. Burman "Codec Control Messages

, February 2008,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

, and

,
Lennox, J. Ott, J.
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 5576 DOI 10.17487/RFC5576
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5576>

T. Schierl "Source-Speciﬁc Media Attributes in the Session
<https://

, June 2009,

,

,

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

[RFC7160]

[RFC7201]

[RFC7656]

[RFC7657]

[RFC8829]

[RFC8838]

[RFC8843]

Petit-Huguenin, M.
 and
Session" RFC 7160 DOI 10.17487/RFC7160
,
,
info/rfc7160>
.

,

G. Zorn, Ed. "Support for Multiple Clock Rates in an RTP
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, April 2014,

Westerlund, M.
10.17487/RFC7201

C. Perkins "Options for Securing RTP Sessions" RFC 7201 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7201>
.

, April 2014,

,

,

 and

,

,

,
Lennox, J. Gross, K. Nandakumar, S. Salgueiro, G.
Taxonomy of Semantics and Mechanisms for Real-Time Transport Protocol
(RTP) Sources" RFC 7656 DOI 10.17487/RFC7656
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7656>

B. Burman, Ed. "A

, November 2015,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

,
Black, D., Ed.
Communication" RFC 7657 DOI 10.17487/RFC7657
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7657>

 and
P. Jones "Diﬀerentiated Services (Diﬀserv) and Real-Time
,
<https://

, November 2015,

,

,

, and
E. Rescorla, Ed. "JavaScript Session Establishment
Uberti, J. Jennings, C.
,
Protocol (JSEP)" RFC 8829 DOI 10.17487/RFC8829
.
editor.org/info/rfc8829>

, January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

, and

,
P. Saint-Andre "Trickle ICE: Incremental Provisioning of
Ivov, E. Uberti, J.
Candidates for the Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE) Protocol" RFC
,
8838 DOI 10.17487/RFC8838
.
rfc8838>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2021,

,

,
C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Holmberg, C. Alvestrand, H.
,
,
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 8843 DOI 10.17487/RFC8843
January 2021,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8843>

, and

,
,

Appendix A.  Design Considerations

One of the main issues regarding the BUNDLE grouping extensions has been whether, in oﬀers
and answers, the same port value can be inserted in "m=" lines associated with a BUNDLE group,
as the purpose of the extension is to negotiate the usage of a single transport for media speciﬁed
by the "m=" sections. Issues with both approaches, discussed in Appendix A, have been raised. The
outcome was to specify a mechanism that uses oﬀers with both diﬀerent and identical port
values.

Below are the primary issues that have been considered when deﬁning the "BUNDLE" grouping
extension:

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

Interoperability with existing User Agents (UAs).

Interoperability with intermediary Back-to-Back User Agent (B2BUA) and proxy entities.

The number of ICE candidates and the time to gather them.

Diﬀerent error scenarios and when they occur.

SDP oﬀer/answer impacts, including usage of port number value zero.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

A.1.  UA Interoperability

Consider the following SDP oﬀer/answer exchange, where Alice sends an oﬀer to Bob:

SDP Oﬀer

    v=0
    o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP4 atlanta.example.com
    s=
    c=IN IP4 atlanta.example.com
    t=0 0

    m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 97
    a=rtpmap:97 iLBC/8000
    m=video 10002 RTP/AVP 97
    a=rtpmap:97 H261/90000

SDP Answer

    v=0
    o=bob 2808844564 2808844564 IN IP4 biloxi.example.com
    s=
    c=IN IP4 biloxi.example.com
    t=0 0

    m=audio 20000 RTP/AVP 97
    a=rtpmap:97 iLBC/8000
    m=video 20002 RTP/AVP 97
    a=rtpmap:97 H261/90000

[RFC4961]

. This means that Alice may be sending RTP from a

 speciﬁes a way of doing symmetric RTP, but that is a later extension to RTP, and Bob

[RFC4961]
cannot assume that Alice supports
diﬀerent port than 10000 or 10002 -- some implementations simply send the RTP from an
ephemeral port. When Bob's endpoint receives an RTP packet, the only way that Bob knows if the
packet is to be passed to the video or audio codec is by looking at the port it was received on. This
prompted some SDP implementations to use a port number as an index to ﬁnd the correct "m="
line in the SDP, since each "m"= section contains a diﬀerent port number. As a result, some
implementations that do support symmetric RTP and ICE still use an SDP data structure where
SDP with "m=" sections with the same port such as:

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Oﬀer

    v=0
    o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP4 atlanta.example.com
    s=
    c=IN IP4 atlanta.example.com
    t=0 0

    m=audio 10000 RTP/AVP 97
    a=rtpmap:97 iLBC/8000
    m=video 10000 RTP/AVP 98
    a=rtpmap:98 H261/90000

will result in the second "m=" section being considered an SDP error because it has the same port
as the ﬁrst line.

A.2.  Usage of Port Number Value Zero

In an oﬀer or answer, the media speciﬁed by an "m=" section can be disabled/rejected by setting
the port number value to zero. This is diﬀerent from, e.g., using the SDP direction attributes, where
RTCP traﬃc will continue even if the SDP 'inactive' attribute is indicated for the associated "m="
section.

If each "m=" section associated with a BUNDLE group were to contain diﬀerent port values and
one of those port values were used for a BUNDLE address:port associated with the BUNDLE group,
problems would occur if an endpoint wants to disable/reject the "m=" section associated with that
port by setting the port value to zero. After that, no "m=" section would contain the port value that
is used for the BUNDLE address:port. In addition, it is unclear what would happen to the ICE
candidates associated with the "m=" section, as they are also used for the BUNDLE address:port.

A.3.  B2BUA and Proxy Interoperability

Some back-to-back user agents may be conﬁgured in a mode where if the incoming call leg
contains an SDP attribute the B2BUA does not understand, the B2BUA still generates that SDP
attribute in the Oﬀer for the outgoing call leg. Consider a B2BUA that did not understand the SDP
'rtcp' attribute, deﬁned in
conﬁgured to tear down any call where it did not see any RTCP for 5 minutes. In this case, if the
B2BUA received an Oﬀer like:

, yet acted this way. Further, assume that the B2BUA was

[RFC3605]

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

SDP Oﬀer

    v=0
    o=alice 2890844526 2890844526 IN IP4 atlanta.example.com
    s=
    c=IN IP4 atlanta.example.com
    t=0 0

    m=audio 49170 RTP/AVP 0
    a=rtcp:53020

it would be looking for RTCP on port 49171 but would not see any because the RTCP would be on
port 53020, and after ﬁve minutes, it would tear down the call. Similarly, a B2BUA that did not
understand BUNDLE yet put it in its oﬀer may be looking for media on the wrong port and tear
down the call. It is worth noting that a B2BUA that generated an Oﬀer with capabilities it does not
understand is not compliant with the speciﬁcations.

A.3.1.  Traﬃc Policing

Sometimes intermediaries do not act as B2BUAs, in the sense that they don't modify SDP bodies
nor do they terminate SIP dialogs. However, they may still use SDP information (e.g., IP address
and port) in order to control traﬃc gating functions and to set traﬃc policing rules. There might
be rules that will trigger a session to be terminated in case media is not sent or received on the
ports retrieved from the SDP. This typically occurs once the session is already established and
ongoing.

A.3.2.  Bandwidth Allocation

Sometimes, intermediaries do not act as B2BUAs, in the sense that they don't modify SDP bodies
nor do they terminate SIP dialogs. However, they may still use SDP information (e.g., codecs and
media types) in order to control bandwidth allocation functions. The bandwidth allocation is
done per "m=" section, which means that it might not be enough if media speciﬁed by all "m="
sections try to use that bandwidth. That may simply lead to either a bad user experience or
termination of the call.

A.4.  Candidate Gathering

When using ICE, a candidate needs to be gathered for each port. This takes approximately 20 ms
extra for each extra "m=" section due to the NAT pacing requirements. All of this gathering can be
overlapped with other things while, e.g., a web page is loading to minimize the impact. If the client
only wants to generate Traversal Using Relays around NAT (TURN) or STUN ICE candidates for
one of the "m=" lines and then use Trickle ICE
rest of the "m=" sections, it

 do that and will not need any additional gathering time.

 to get the non-host ICE candidates for the

[RFC8838]

MAY

Some people have suggested a TURN extension to get a bunch of TURN allocations at once. This
would only provide a single STUN result, so in cases where the other end did not support BUNDLE,
it may cause more use of the TURN server, but it would be quick in the cases where both sides
supported BUNDLE and would fall back to a successful call in the other cases.

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

Acknowledgements

The usage of the SDP grouping extension for negotiating bundled media is based on similar
alternatives proposed by
 and
described in this document is based on the diﬀerent alternative proposals, and text (e.g., SDP
examples) has been borrowed (and, in some cases, modiﬁed) from those alternative proposals.

. The BUNDLE extension

Harald Alvestrand

Cullen Jennings

The SDP examples are also modiﬁed versions from the ones in the Alvestrand proposal.

,

Paul Kyzivat Martin Thomson Flemming Andreasen Thomas Stach Ari Keränen

Thanks to
,
Adam Roach Christian Groves Roman Shpount Suhas Nandakumar Nils Ohlmeier Jens Guballa
Raju Makaraju Justin Uberti Taylor Brandstetter Byron Campen
the text and providing useful feedback.

,
 for reading
Eric Rescorla

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Thanks to
Bernard Aboba Peter Thatcher Justin Uberti
the text for the section on RTP/RTCP stream association.

,

,

, and

Magnus Westerlund

 for providing

Thanks to
on the RTP/RTCP procedures.

Magnus Westerlund Colin Perkins

,

, and

Jonathan Lennox

 for providing help and text

Thanks to

Charlie Kaufman

 for performing the Sec-Dir review.

Thanks to

Linda Dunbar

 for performing the Gen-ART review.

Thanks to Spotify for providing music for the countless hours of document editing.

Authors' Addresses

Christer Holmberg
Ericsson
Hirsalantie 11
FI-
02420 Jorvas
Finland
Email:

 christer.holmberg@ericsson.com

Harald Tveit Alvestrand
Google
Kungsbron 2
SE-
Sweden
Email:

11122 Stockholm

 harald@alvestrand.no

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9143

Bundled Media

February 2022

Cullen Jennings
Cisco
Suite 350
400 3rd Avenue SW
Calgary AB T2P 4H2
Canada
Email:

 ﬂuﬀy@iii.ca

Holmberg, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

