Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9113
7540, 8740
Standards Track
June 2022
2070-1721
M. Thomson,
Mozilla

C. Benﬁeld,
Apple Inc.

 Ed.

 Ed.

Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

RFC 9113
HTTP/2

Abstract

This speciﬁcation describes an optimized expression of the semantics of the Hypertext Transfer
Protocol (HTTP), referred to as HTTP version 2 (HTTP/2). HTTP/2 enables a more eﬃcient use of
network resources and a reduced latency by introducing ﬁeld compression and allowing multiple
concurrent exchanges on the same connection.

This document obsoletes RFCs 7540 and 8740.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9113
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  HTTP/2 Protocol Overview

2.1.  Document Organization

2.2.  Conventions and Terminology

3.  Starting HTTP/2

3.1.  HTTP/2 Version Identiﬁcation

3.2.  Starting HTTP/2 for "https" URIs

3.3.  Starting HTTP/2 with Prior Knowledge

3.4.  HTTP/2 Connection Preface

4.  HTTP Frames

4.1.  Frame Format

4.2.  Frame Size

4.3.  Field Section Compression and Decompression

4.3.1.  Compression State

5.  Streams and Multiplexing

5.1.  Stream States

5.1.1.  Stream Identiﬁers

5.1.2.  Stream Concurrency

5.2.  Flow Control

5.2.1.  Flow-Control Principles

5.2.2.  Appropriate Use of Flow Control

5.2.3.  Flow-Control Performance

5.3.  Prioritization

5.3.1.  Background on Priority in RFC 7540

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

5.3.2.  Priority Signaling in This Document

5.4.  Error Handling

5.4.1.  Connection Error Handling

5.4.2.  Stream Error Handling

5.4.3.  Connection Termination

5.5.  Extending HTTP/2

6.  Frame Deﬁnitions

6.1.  DATA

6.2.  HEADERS

6.3.  PRIORITY

6.4.  RST_STREAM

6.5.  SETTINGS

6.5.1.  SETTINGS Format

6.5.2.  Deﬁned Settings

6.5.3.  Settings Synchronization

6.6.  PUSH_PROMISE

6.7.  PING

6.8.  GOAWAY

6.9.  WINDOW_UPDATE

6.9.1.  The Flow-Control Window

6.9.2.  Initial Flow-Control Window Size

6.9.3.  Reducing the Stream Window Size

6.10. CONTINUATION

7.  Error Codes

8.  Expressing HTTP Semantics in HTTP/2

8.1.  HTTP Message Framing

8.1.1.  Malformed Messages

8.2.  HTTP Fields

8.2.1.  Field Validity

8.2.2.  Connection-Speciﬁc Header Fields

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

8.2.3.  Compressing the Cookie Header Field

8.3.  HTTP Control Data

8.3.1.  Request Pseudo-Header Fields

8.3.2.  Response Pseudo-Header Fields

8.4.  Server Push

8.4.1.  Push Requests

8.4.2.  Push Responses

8.5.  The CONNECT Method

8.6.  The Upgrade Header Field

8.7.  Request Reliability

8.8.  Examples

8.8.1.  Simple Request

8.8.2.  Simple Response

8.8.3.  Complex Request

8.8.4.  Response with Body

8.8.5.  Informational Responses

9.  HTTP/2 Connections

9.1.  Connection Management

9.1.1.  Connection Reuse

9.2.  Use of TLS Features

9.2.1.  TLS 1.2 Features

9.2.2.  TLS 1.2 Cipher Suites

9.2.3.  TLS 1.3 Features

10. Security Considerations

10.1.  Server Authority

10.2.  Cross-Protocol Attacks

10.3.  Intermediary Encapsulation Attacks

10.4.  Cacheability of Pushed Responses

10.5.  Denial-of-Service Considerations

10.5.1.  Limits on Field Block Size

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

10.5.2.  CONNECT Issues

10.6.  Use of Compression

10.7.  Use of Padding

10.8.  Privacy Considerations

10.9.  Remote Timing Attacks

11. IANA Considerations

11.1.  HTTP2-Settings Header Field Registration

11.2.  The h2c Upgrade Token

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Prohibited TLS 1.2 Cipher Suites

Appendix B.  Changes from RFC 7540

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

) is linked
The performance of applications using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP,
to how each version of HTTP uses the underlying transport, and the conditions under which the
transport operates.

[HTTP]

Making multiple concurrent requests can reduce latency and improve application performance.
HTTP/1.0 allowed only one request to be outstanding at a time on a given TCP
HTTP/1.1
concurrency and still suﬀers from application-layer head-of-line blocking. Therefore, HTTP/1.0
and HTTP/1.1 clients use multiple connections to a server to make concurrent requests.

 added request pipelining, but this only partially addressed request

 connection.

[HTTP/1.1]

[TCP]

Furthermore, HTTP ﬁelds are often repetitive and verbose, causing unnecessary network traﬃc
as well as causing the initial TCP congestion window to quickly ﬁll. This can result in excessive
latency when multiple requests are made on a new TCP connection.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

HTTP/2 addresses these issues by deﬁning an optimized mapping of HTTP's semantics to an
underlying connection. Speciﬁcally, it allows interleaving of messages on the same connection
and uses an eﬃcient coding for HTTP ﬁelds. It also allows prioritization of requests, letting more
important requests complete more quickly, further improving performance.

The resulting protocol is more friendly to the network because fewer TCP connections can be
used in comparison to HTTP/1.x. This means less competition with other ﬂows and longer-lived
connections, which in turn lead to better utilization of available network capacity. Note, however,
that TCP head-of-line blocking is not addressed by this protocol.

Finally, HTTP/2 also enables more eﬃcient processing of messages through use of binary message
framing.

This document obsoletes RFCs 7540 and 8740. Appendix B lists notable changes.

2.  HTTP/2 Protocol Overview

HTTP/2 provides an optimized transport for HTTP semantics. HTTP/2 supports all of the core
features of HTTP but aims to be more eﬃcient than HTTP/1.1.

HTTP/2 is a connection-oriented application-layer protocol that runs over a TCP connection
[TCP]
(

). The client is the TCP connection initiator.

The basic protocol unit in HTTP/2 is a
purpose. For example, HEADERS and DATA frames form the basis of
(Section 8.1)
in support of other HTTP/2 features.

frame (Section 4.1)

. Each frame type serves a diﬀerent

HTTP requests and responses

; other frame types like SETTINGS, WINDOW_UPDATE, and PUSH_PROMISE are used

Multiplexing of requests is achieved by having each HTTP request/response exchange associated
with its own
stalled request or response does not prevent progress on other streams.

. Streams are largely independent of each other, so a blocked or

stream (Section 5)

 ensures that it is possible to eﬃciently use multiplexed streams by restricting data that is

Eﬀective use of multiplexing depends on ﬂow control and prioritization.
5.2)
transmitted to what the receiver is able to handle.
resources are used most eﬀectively. This revision of HTTP/2 deprecates the priority signaling
scheme from

Prioritization (Section 5.3)

Flow control (Section

[RFC7540]

 ensures that limited

.

Because HTTP ﬁelds used in a connection can contain large amounts of redundant data, frames
that contain them are
request sizes in the common case, allowing many requests to be compressed into one packet.

. This has especially advantageous impact upon

compressed (Section 4.3)

Finally, HTTP/2 adds a new, optional interaction mode whereby a server can
. This is intended to allow a server to speculatively send data to a client that the
client (Section 8.4)
server anticipates the client will need, trading oﬀ some network usage against a potential latency
gain. The server does this by synthesizing a request, which it sends as a PUSH_PROMISE frame.
The server is then able to send a response to the synthetic request on a separate stream.

push responses to a

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

2.1.  Document Organization

The HTTP/2 speciﬁcation is split into four parts:

• Starting HTTP/2 (Section 3)

 covers how an HTTP/2 connection is initiated.

•

frame (Section 4)

The
 and
structured and formed into multiplexed streams.

stream (Section 5)

 layers describe the way HTTP/2 frames are

• Frame (Section 6)

 and
types used in HTTP/2.

error (Section 7)

 deﬁnitions include details of the frame and error

• HTTP mappings (Section 8)

 and

additional requirements (Section 9)

 describe how HTTP

semantics are expressed using frames and streams.

While some of the frame- and stream-layer concepts are isolated from HTTP, this speciﬁcation
does not deﬁne a completely generic frame layer. The frame and stream layers are tailored to the
needs of HTTP.

2.2.  Conventions and Terminology

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

All numeric values are in network byte order. Values are unsigned unless otherwise indicated.
Literal values are provided in decimal or hexadecimal as appropriate. Hexadecimal literals are
preﬁxed with "0x" to distinguish them from decimal literals.

This speciﬁcation describes binary formats using the conventions described in
9000 [QUIC]
before low-valued bits.

. Note that this format uses network byte order and that high-valued bits are listed

Section 1.3 of RFC

The following terms are used:

client:

The endpoint that initiates an HTTP/2 connection. Clients send HTTP requests and

receive HTTP responses.

connection:

A transport-layer connection between two endpoints.

connection error:

An error that aﬀects the entire HTTP/2 connection.

endpoint:

Either the client or server of the connection.

frame:

The smallest unit of communication within an HTTP/2 connection, consisting of a
header and a variable-length sequence of octets structured according to the frame type.

peer:

An endpoint. When discussing a particular endpoint, "peer" refers to the endpoint that is

remote to the primary subject of discussion.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

receiver:

An endpoint that is receiving frames.

sender:

An endpoint that is transmitting frames.

server:

The endpoint that accepts an HTTP/2 connection. Servers receive HTTP requests and

send HTTP responses.

stream:

A bidirectional ﬂow of frames within the HTTP/2 connection.

stream error:

An error on the individual HTTP/2 stream.

Finally, the terms "gateway", "intermediary", "proxy", and "tunnel" are deﬁned in
[HTTP]

. Intermediaries act as both client and server at diﬀerent times.

Section 3.7 of

The term "content" as it applies to message bodies is deﬁned in

Section 6.4 of [HTTP]

.

3.  Starting HTTP/2

Implementations that generate HTTP requests need to discover whether a server supports HTTP/
2.

HTTP/2 uses the "http" and "https" URI schemes deﬁned in
default port numbers as HTTP/1.1
what HTTP versions an upstream server (the immediate peer to which the client wishes to
establish a connection) supports.

. These URIs do not include any indication about

Section 4.2 of [HTTP]

[HTTP/1.1]

, with the same

The means by which support for HTTP/2 is determined is diﬀerent for "http" and "https" URIs.
Discovery for "https" URIs is described in Section 3.2. HTTP/2 support for "http" URIs can only be
discovered by out-of-band means and requires prior knowledge of the support as described in
Section 3.3.

3.1.  HTTP/2 Version Identiﬁcation

The protocol deﬁned in this document has two identiﬁers. Creating a connection based on either
implies the use of the transport, framing, and message semantics described in this document.

•

The string "h2" identiﬁes the protocol where HTTP/2 uses Transport Layer Security (TLS); see
Section 9.2. This identiﬁer is used in the
extension [TLS-ALPN]

 ﬁeld and in any place where HTTP/2 over TLS is identiﬁed.

TLS Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN)

The "h2" string is serialized into an ALPN protocol identiﬁer as the two-octet sequence: 0x68,
0x32.

•

The "h2c" string was previously used as a token for use in the HTTP Upgrade mechanism's
Upgrade header ﬁeld (
). This usage was never widely deployed and is
deprecated by this document. The same applies to the HTTP2-Settings header ﬁeld, which was
used with the upgrade to "h2c".

Section 7.8 of [HTTP]

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

3.2.  Starting HTTP/2 for "https" URIs

A client that makes a request to an "https" URI uses
ALPN]

.

TLS [TLS13]

 with the

ALPN extension [TLS-

HTTP/2 over TLS uses the "h2" protocol identiﬁer. The "h2c" protocol identiﬁer
 be sent
by a client or selected by a server; the "h2c" protocol identiﬁer describes a protocol that does not
use TLS.

MUST NOT

Once TLS negotiation is complete, both the client and the server
(Section 3.4)

.

MUST

 send a

connection preface

3.3.  Starting HTTP/2 with Prior Knowledge

A client can learn that a particular server supports HTTP/2 by other means. For example, a client
could be conﬁgured with knowledge that a server supports HTTP/2.

A client that knows that a server supports HTTP/2 can establish a TCP connection and send the
connection preface (Section 3.4)
connections by the presence of the connection preface. This only aﬀects the establishment of
HTTP/2 connections over cleartext TCP; HTTP/2 connections over TLS
negotiation in TLS [TLS-ALPN]

 followed by HTTP/2 frames. Servers can identify these

protocol

MUST

 use

.

Likewise, the server

MUST

 send a

connection preface (Section 3.4)

.

Without additional information, prior support for HTTP/2 is not a strong signal that a given
server will support HTTP/2 for future connections. For example, it is possible for server
conﬁgurations to change, for conﬁgurations to diﬀer between instances in clustered servers, or
for network conditions to change.

3.4.  HTTP/2 Connection Preface

In HTTP/2, each endpoint is required to send a connection preface as a ﬁnal conﬁrmation of the
protocol in use and to establish the initial settings for the HTTP/2 connection. The client and
server each send a diﬀerent connection preface.

The client connection preface starts with a sequence of 24 octets, which in hex notation is:

  0x505249202a20485454502f322e300d0a0d0a534d0d0a0d0a

That is, the connection preface starts with the string "PRI * HTTP/2.0\r\n\r\nSM\r\n\r\n".
This sequence
 be followed by a SETTINGS frame (Section 6.5), which
 be empty. The
client sends the client connection preface as the ﬁrst application data octets of a connection.

MUST

MAY

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

Note: The client connection preface is selected so that a large proportion of HTTP/1.1
or HTTP/1.0 servers and intermediaries do not attempt to process further frames.
Note that this does not address the concerns raised in

[TALKING]

.

The server connection preface consists of a potentially empty SETTINGS frame (Section 6.5) that
MUST

 be the ﬁrst frame the server sends in the HTTP/2 connection.

The SETTINGS frames received from a peer as part of the connection preface
acknowledged (see Section 6.5.3) after sending the connection preface.

MUST

 be

To avoid unnecessary latency, clients are permitted to send additional frames to the server
immediately after sending the client connection preface, without waiting to receive the server
connection preface. It is important to note, however, that the server connection preface
SETTINGS frame might include settings that necessarily alter how a client is expected to
communicate with the server. Upon receiving the SETTINGS frame, the client is expected to honor
any settings established. In some conﬁgurations, it is possible for the server to transmit SETTINGS
before the client sends additional frames, providing an opportunity to avoid this issue.

Clients and servers
of type PROTOCOL_ERROR. A GOAWAY frame (Section 6.8)
invalid preface indicates that the peer is not using HTTP/2.

 treat an invalid connection preface as a

MUST

MAY

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 be omitted in this case, since an

4.  HTTP Frames

Once the HTTP/2 connection is established, endpoints can begin exchanging frames.

4.1.  Frame Format

All frames begin with a ﬁxed 9-octet header followed by a variable-length frame payload.

HTTP Frame {
  Length (24),
  Type (8),

  Flags (8),

  Reserved (1),
  Stream Identifier (31),

  Frame Payload (..),
}

Figure 1: Frame Layout

The ﬁelds of the frame header are deﬁned as:

Length:

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

The length of the frame payload expressed as an unsigned 24-bit integer in units of octets.
Values greater than 214 (16,384)
SETTINGS_MAX_FRAME_SIZE.

 be sent unless the receiver has set a larger value for

MUST NOT

The 9 octets of the frame header are not included in this value.

Type:

The 8-bit type of the frame. The frame type determines the format and semantics of the

frame. Frames deﬁned in this document are listed in Section 6. Implementations
and discard frames of unknown types.

MUST

 ignore

Flags:

An 8-bit ﬁeld reserved for boolean ﬂags speciﬁc to the frame type.

Flags are assigned semantics speciﬁc to the indicated frame type. Unused ﬂags are those that
have no deﬁned semantics for a particular frame type. Unused ﬂags
 be left unset (0x00) when sending.
receipt and

 be ignored on

MUST

MUST

Reserved:

A reserved 1-bit ﬁeld. The semantics of this bit are undeﬁned, and the bit

MUST

 remain

unset (0x00) when sending and

MUST

 be ignored when receiving.

Stream Identiﬁer:

A stream identiﬁer (see Section 5.1.1) expressed as an unsigned 31-bit integer.

The value 0x00 is reserved for frames that are associated with the connection as a whole as
opposed to an individual stream.

The structure and content of the frame payload are dependent entirely on the frame type.

4.2.  Frame Size

The size of a frame payload is limited by the maximum size that a receiver advertises in the
SETTINGS_MAX_FRAME_SIZE setting. This setting can have any value between 214 (16,384) and
224-1 (16,777,215) octets, inclusive.

All implementations
octets in length, plus the 9-octet
included when describing frame sizes.

MUST

 be capable of receiving and minimally processing frames up to 214
. The size of the frame header is not

frame header (Section 4.1)

Note: Certain frame types, such as
amount of frame payload data allowed.

PING (Section 6.7)

, impose additional limits on the

MUST

 send an error code of FRAME_SIZE_ERROR if a frame exceeds the size deﬁned

An endpoint
in SETTINGS_MAX_FRAME_SIZE, exceeds any limit deﬁned for the frame type, or is too small to
contain mandatory frame data. A frame size error in a frame that could alter the state of the
entire connection
carrying a
SETTINGS frame, and any frame with a stream identiﬁer of 0.

 (that is, HEADERS, PUSH_PROMISE, and CONTINUATION), a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

; this includes any frame

ﬁeld block (Section 4.3)

 be treated as a

MUST

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

Endpoints are not obligated to use all available space in a frame. Responsiveness can be
improved by using frames that are smaller than the permitted maximum size. Sending large
frames can result in delays in sending time-sensitive frames (such as RST_STREAM,
WINDOW_UPDATE, or PRIORITY), which, if blocked by the transmission of a large frame, could
aﬀect performance.

4.3.  Field Section Compression and Decompression

Section 5.2 of [HTTP]
Field section compression is the process of compressing a set of ﬁeld lines (
to form a ﬁeld block. Field section decompression is the process of decoding a ﬁeld block into a
set of ﬁeld lines. Details of HTTP/2 ﬁeld section compression and decompression are deﬁned in
, which, for historical reasons, refers to these processes as header compression
[COMPRESSION]
and decompression.

)

Each ﬁeld block carries all of the compressed ﬁeld lines of a single ﬁeld section. Header sections
also include control data associated with the message in the form of
8.3)

 that use the same format as a ﬁeld line.

pseudo-header ﬁelds (Section

RFC 7540 [RFC7540]

Note:
"ﬁeld block".

 used the term "header block" in place of the more generic

Field blocks carry control data and header sections for requests, responses, promised requests,
and pushed responses (see Section 8.4). All these messages, except for interim responses and
requests contained in
that carries a trailer section.

 frames, can optionally include a ﬁeld block

PUSH_PROMISE (Section 6.6)

A ﬁeld section is a collection of ﬁeld lines. Each of the ﬁeld lines in a ﬁeld block carries a single
value. The serialized ﬁeld block is then divided into one or more octet sequences, called ﬁeld
block fragments. The ﬁrst ﬁeld block fragment is transmitted within the frame payload of
, each of which could be followed by
HEADERS (Section 6.2)
CONTINUATION (Section 6.10)

 frames to carry subsequent ﬁeld block fragments.

PUSH_PROMISE (Section 6.6)

 or

The

Cookie header ﬁeld [COOKIE]

 is treated specially by the HTTP mapping (see Section 8.2.3).

A receiving endpoint reassembles the ﬁeld block by concatenating its fragments and then
decompresses the block to reconstruct the ﬁeld section.

A complete ﬁeld section consists of either:

•

a single HEADERS or PUSH_PROMISE frame, with the END_HEADERS ﬂag set, or

•

a HEADERS or PUSH_PROMISE frame with the END_HEADERS ﬂag unset and one or more
CONTINUATION frames, where the last CONTINUATION frame has the END_HEADERS ﬂag set.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

 be transmitted as a contiguous
Each ﬁeld block is processed as a discrete unit. Field blocks
sequence of frames, with no interleaved frames of any other type or from any other stream. The
last frame in a sequence of HEADERS or CONTINUATION frames has the END_HEADERS ﬂag set.
The last frame in a sequence of PUSH_PROMISE or CONTINUATION frames has the END_HEADERS
ﬂag set. This allows a ﬁeld block to be logically equivalent to a single frame.

MUST

Field block fragments can only be sent as the frame payload of HEADERS, PUSH_PROMISE, or
CONTINUATION frames because these frames carry data that can modify the compression
context maintained by a receiver. An endpoint receiving HEADERS, PUSH_PROMISE, or
CONTINUATION frames needs to reassemble ﬁeld blocks and perform decompression even if the
frames are to be discarded. A receiver
(Section 5.4.1)

 of type COMPRESSION_ERROR if it does not decompress a ﬁeld block.

 terminate the connection with a

connection error

MUST

A decoding error in a ﬁeld block
COMPRESSION_ERROR.

MUST

4.3.1.  Compression State

 be treated as a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type

Field compression is stateful. Each endpoint has an HPACK encoder context and an HPACK
decoder context that are used for encoding and decoding all ﬁeld blocks on a connection.
4 of [COMPRESSION]

 deﬁnes the dynamic table, which is the primary state for each context.

Section

The dynamic table has a maximum size that is set by an HPACK decoder. An endpoint
communicates the size chosen by its HPACK decoder context using the
SETTINGS_HEADER_TABLE_SIZE setting; see Section 6.5.2. When a connection is established, the
dynamic table size for the HPACK decoder and encoder at both endpoints starts at 4,096 bytes, the
initial value of the SETTINGS_HEADER_TABLE_SIZE setting.

acknowledges settings (Section 6.5.3)

Any change to the maximum value set using SETTINGS_HEADER_TABLE_SIZE takes eﬀect when
the endpoint
. The HPACK encoder at that endpoint can set
the dynamic table to any size up to the maximum value set by the decoder. An HPACK encoder
declares the size of the dynamic table with a Dynamic Table Size Update instruction (
of [COMPRESSION]

Section 6.3

).

Once an endpoint acknowledges a change to SETTINGS_HEADER_TABLE_SIZE that reduces the
 start the next
maximum below the current size of the dynamic table, its HPACK encoder
ﬁeld block with a Dynamic Table Size Update instruction that sets the dynamic table to a size that
is less than or equal to the reduced maximum; see
MUST
dynamic table size as a
not start with a conformant Dynamic Table Size Update instruction.

 treat a ﬁeld block that follows an acknowledgment of the reduction to the maximum

 of type COMPRESSION_ERROR if it does

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

Section 4.2 of [COMPRESSION]

. An endpoint

MUST

Implementers are advised that reducing the value of
SETTINGS_HEADER_TABLE_SIZE is not widely interoperable. Use of the connection
preface to reduce the value below the initial value of 4,096 is somewhat better
supported, but this might fail with some implementations.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

5.  Streams and Multiplexing

A "stream" is an independent, bidirectional sequence of frames exchanged between the client and
server within an HTTP/2 connection. Streams have several important characteristics:

•

A single HTTP/2 connection can contain multiple concurrently open streams, with either
endpoint interleaving frames from multiple streams.

•

Streams can be established and used unilaterally or shared by either endpoint.

•

Streams can be closed by either endpoint.

•

The order in which frames are sent is signiﬁcant. Recipients process frames in the order they
are received. In particular, the order of HEADERS and DATA frames is semantically
signiﬁcant.

•

Streams are identiﬁed by an integer. Stream identiﬁers are assigned to streams by the
endpoint initiating the stream.

5.1.  Stream States

The lifecycle of a stream is shown in Figure 2.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

Figure 2: Stream States

endpoint sends this frame
endpoint receives this frame

HEADERS frame (with implied CONTINUATION frames)

send:
recv:
H:
ES:
R:
PP:

END_STREAM ﬂag
RST_STREAM frame

PUSH_PROMISE frame (with implied CONTINUATION frames); state transitions are for the

promised stream

Note that this diagram shows stream state transitions and the frames and ﬂags that aﬀect those
transitions only. In this regard, CONTINUATION frames do not result in state transitions; they are
eﬀectively part of the HEADERS or PUSH_PROMISE that they follow. For the purpose of state
transitions, the END_STREAM ﬂag is processed as a separate event to the frame that bears it; a
HEADERS frame with the END_STREAM ﬂag set can cause two state transitions.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 15

sendPPrecvPPidlesendH/reservedrecvHreserved(local)(remote)recvESsendESsendHopenrecvHhalf-half-closedsendR/closed(remote)recvR(local)sendES/recvES/sendR/sendR/recvRrecvRsendR/sendR/recvRclosedrecvRRFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

Both endpoints have a subjective view of the state of a stream that could be diﬀerent when
frames are in transit. Endpoints do not coordinate the creation of streams; they are created
unilaterally by either endpoint. The negative consequences of a mismatch in states are limited to
the "closed" state after sending RST_STREAM, where frames might be received for some time after
closing.

Streams have the following states:

idle:

All streams start in the "idle" state.

The following transitions are valid from this state:

•

Sending a HEADERS frame as a client, or receiving a HEADERS frame as a server, causes
the stream to become "open". The stream identiﬁer is selected as described in Section 5.1.1.
The same HEADERS frame can also cause a stream to immediately become "half-closed".

•

Sending a PUSH_PROMISE frame on another stream reserves the idle stream that is
identiﬁed for later use. The stream state for the reserved stream transitions to "reserved
(local)". Only a server may send PUSH_PROMISE frames.

•

Receiving a PUSH_PROMISE frame on another stream reserves an idle stream that is
identiﬁed for later use. The stream state for the reserved stream transitions to "reserved
(remote)". Only a client may receive PUSH_PROMISE frames.

•

Note that the PUSH_PROMISE frame is not sent on the idle stream but references the
newly reserved stream in the Promised Stream ID ﬁeld.

•

Opening a stream with a higher-valued stream identiﬁer causes the stream to transition
immediately to a "closed" state; note that this transition is not shown in the diagram.

Receiving any frame other than HEADERS or PRIORITY on a stream in this state
treated as a
initiated by the server, as described in Section 5.1.1, then receiving a HEADERS frame
also be treated as a

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR. If this stream is

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST

 be

MUST

reserved (local):

A stream in the "reserved (local)" state is one that has been promised by

sending a PUSH_PROMISE frame. A PUSH_PROMISE frame reserves an idle stream by
associating the stream with an open stream that was initiated by the remote peer (see Section
8.4).

In this state, only the following transitions are possible:

•

The endpoint can send a HEADERS frame. This causes the stream to open in a "half-closed
(remote)" state.

•

Either endpoint can send a RST_STREAM frame to cause the stream to become "closed".
This releases the stream reservation.

An endpoint
MUST NOT
PRIORITY in this state.

 send any type of frame other than HEADERS, RST_STREAM, or

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

A PRIORITY or WINDOW_UPDATE frame
frame other than RST_STREAM, PRIORITY, or WINDOW_UPDATE on a stream in this state
MUST

 be received in this state. Receiving any type of

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 be treated as a

MAY

reserved (remote):

A stream in the "reserved (remote)" state has been reserved by a remote

peer.

In this state, only the following transitions are possible:

•

Receiving a HEADERS frame causes the stream to transition to "half-closed (local)".

•

Either endpoint can send a RST_STREAM frame to cause the stream to become "closed".
This releases the stream reservation.

An endpoint
or PRIORITY in this state.

MUST NOT

 send any type of frame other than RST_STREAM, WINDOW_UPDATE,

Receiving any type of frame other than HEADERS, RST_STREAM, or PRIORITY on a stream in
this state
connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 be treated as a

MUST

open:

A stream in the "open" state may be used by both peers to send frames of any type. In this

state, sending peers observe advertised

stream-level ﬂow-control limits (Section 5.2)

.

From this state, either endpoint can send a frame with an END_STREAM ﬂag set, which causes
the stream to transition into one of the "half-closed" states. An endpoint sending an
END_STREAM ﬂag causes the stream state to become "half-closed (local)"; an endpoint
receiving an END_STREAM ﬂag causes the stream state to become "half-closed (remote)".

Either endpoint can send a RST_STREAM frame from this state, causing it to transition
immediately to "closed".

half-closed (local):

A stream that is in the "half-closed (local)" state cannot be used for sending

frames other than WINDOW_UPDATE, PRIORITY, and RST_STREAM.

A stream transitions from this state to "closed" when a frame is received with the
END_STREAM ﬂag set or when either peer sends a RST_STREAM frame.

An endpoint can receive any type of frame in this state. Providing ﬂow-control credit using
WINDOW_UPDATE frames is necessary to continue receiving ﬂow-controlled frames. In this
state, a receiver can ignore WINDOW_UPDATE frames, which might arrive for a short period
after a frame with the END_STREAM ﬂag set is sent.

PRIORITY frames can be received in this state.

half-closed (remote):

A stream that is "half-closed (remote)" is no longer being used by the peer

to send frames. In this state, an endpoint is no longer obligated to maintain a receiver ﬂow-
control window.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

If an endpoint receives additional frames, other than WINDOW_UPDATE, PRIORITY, or
RST_STREAM, for a stream that is in this state, it
5.4.2)

 of type STREAM_CLOSED.

 respond with a

stream error (Section

MUST

A stream that is "half-closed (remote)" can be used by the endpoint to send frames of any type.
In this state, the endpoint continues to observe advertised
(Section 5.2)

stream-level ﬂow-control limits

.

A stream can transition from this state to "closed" by sending a frame with the END_STREAM
ﬂag set or when either peer sends a RST_STREAM frame.

closed:

The "closed" state is the terminal state.

A stream enters the "closed" state after an endpoint both sends and receives a frame with an
END_STREAM ﬂag set. A stream also enters the "closed" state after an endpoint either sends or
receives a RST_STREAM frame.

An endpoint
MAY
5.4.1)

MUST NOT

 send frames other than PRIORITY on a closed stream. An endpoint

 treat receipt of any other type of frame on a closed stream as a
 of type STREAM_CLOSED, except as noted below.

connection error (Section

An endpoint that sends a frame with the END_STREAM ﬂag set or a RST_STREAM frame might
receive a WINDOW_UPDATE or RST_STREAM frame from its peer in the time before the peer
receives and processes the frame that closes the stream.

An endpoint that sends a RST_STREAM frame on a stream that is in the "open" or "half-closed
(local)" state could receive any type of frame. The peer might have sent or enqueued for
sending these frames before processing the RST_STREAM frame. An endpoint
process and then discard any frames it receives in this state. This means updating header
compression state for HEADERS and PUSH_PROMISE frames. Receiving a PUSH_PROMISE
frame also causes the promised stream to become "reserved (remote)", even when the
PUSH_PROMISE frame is received on a closed stream. Additionally, the content of DATA
frames counts toward the connection ﬂow-control window.

MUST

 minimally

MAY

 use other signals to detect that a peer has received the frames that caused the

An endpoint can perform this minimal processing for all streams that are in the "closed" state.
Endpoints
stream to enter the "closed" state and treat receipt of any frame other than PRIORITY as a
 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR. Endpoints can use frames that
connection error (Section 5.4.1)
indicate that the peer has received the closing signal to drive this. Endpoints
 use
SHOULD NOT
timers for this purpose. For example, an endpoint that sends a SETTINGS frame after closing a
stream can safely treat receipt of a DATA frame on that stream as an error after receiving an
acknowledgment of the settings. Other things that might be used are PING frames, receiving
data on streams that were created after closing the stream, or responses to requests created
after closing the stream.

In the absence of more speciﬁc rules, implementations
not expressly permitted in the description of a state as a
PROTOCOL_ERROR. Note that PRIORITY can be sent and received in any stream state.

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

SHOULD

 treat the receipt of a frame that is

 of type

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

The rules in this section only apply to frames deﬁned in this document. Receipt of frames for
which the semantics are unknown cannot be treated as an error, as the conditions for sending
and receiving those frames are also unknown; see Section 5.5.

An example of the state transitions for an HTTP request/response exchange can be found in
Section 8.8. An example of the state transitions for server push can be found in Sections 8.4.1 and
8.4.2.

5.1.1.  Stream Identiﬁers

Streams are identiﬁed by an unsigned 31-bit integer. Streams initiated by a client
numbered stream identiﬁers; those initiated by the server
identiﬁers. A stream identiﬁer of zero (0x00) is used for connection control messages; the stream
identiﬁer of zero cannot be used to establish a new stream.

 use even-numbered stream

 use odd-

MUST

MUST

The identiﬁer of a newly established stream
MUST
the initiating endpoint has opened or reserved. This governs streams that are opened using a
HEADERS frame and streams that are reserved using PUSH_PROMISE. An endpoint that receives
an unexpected stream identiﬁer
PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 be numerically greater than all streams that

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 respond with a

 of type

MUST

A HEADERS frame will transition the client-initiated stream identiﬁed by the stream identiﬁer in
the frame header from "idle" to "open". A PUSH_PROMISE frame will transition the server-
initiated stream identiﬁed by the Promised Stream ID ﬁeld in the frame payload from "idle" to
"reserved (local)" or "reserved (remote)". When a stream transitions out of the "idle" state, all
streams in the "idle" state that might have been opened by the peer with a lower-valued stream
identiﬁer immediately transition to "closed". That is, an endpoint may skip a stream identiﬁer,
with the eﬀect being that the skipped stream is immediately closed.

Stream identiﬁers cannot be reused. Long-lived connections can result in an endpoint exhausting
the available range of stream identiﬁers. A client that is unable to establish a new stream
identiﬁer can establish a new connection for new streams. A server that is unable to establish a
new stream identiﬁer can send a GOAWAY frame so that the client is forced to open a new
connection for new streams.

5.1.2.  Stream Concurrency

A peer can limit the number of concurrently active streams using the
SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS parameter (see Section 6.5.2) within a SETTINGS frame.
The maximum concurrent streams setting is speciﬁc to each endpoint and applies only to the
peer that receives the setting. That is, clients specify the maximum number of concurrent streams
the server can initiate, and servers specify the maximum number of concurrent streams the
client can initiate.

Streams that are in the "open" state or in either of the "half-closed" states count toward the
maximum number of streams that an endpoint is permitted to open. Streams in any of these
three states count toward the limit advertised in the SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS
setting. Streams in either of the "reserved" states do not count toward the stream limit.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

MUST NOT

 exceed the limit set by their peer. An endpoint that receives a HEADERS
 treat this as a

Endpoints
frame that causes its advertised concurrent stream limit to be exceeded
stream error (Section 5.4.2)
code determines whether the endpoint wishes to enable automatic retry (see Section 8.7 for
details).

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR or REFUSED_STREAM. The choice of error

MUST

An endpoint that wishes to reduce the value of SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS to a
value that is below the current number of open streams can either close streams that exceed the
new value or allow streams to complete.

5.2.  Flow Control

Using streams for multiplexing introduces contention over use of the TCP connection, resulting in
blocked streams. A ﬂow-control scheme ensures that streams on the same connection do not
destructively interfere with each other. Flow control is used for both individual streams and the
connection as a whole.

HTTP/2 provides for ﬂow control through use of the

WINDOW_UPDATE frame (Section 6.9)

.

5.2.1.  Flow-Control Principles

HTTP/2 stream ﬂow control aims to allow a variety of ﬂow-control algorithms to be used without
requiring protocol changes. Flow control in HTTP/2 has the following characteristics:

1.

Flow control is speciﬁc to a connection. HTTP/2 ﬂow control operates between the endpoints
of a single hop and not over the entire end-to-end path.

2.

Flow control is based on WINDOW_UPDATE frames. Receivers advertise how many octets
they are prepared to receive on a stream and for the entire connection. This is a credit-based
scheme.

3.

Flow control is directional with overall control provided by the receiver. A receiver
choose to set any window size that it desires for each stream and for the entire connection. A
sender
intermediaries all independently advertise their ﬂow-control window as a receiver and abide
by the ﬂow-control limits set by their peer when sending.

 respect ﬂow-control limits imposed by a receiver. Clients, servers, and

MUST

MAY

4.

The initial value for the ﬂow-control window is 65,535 octets for both new streams and the
overall connection.

5.

The frame type determines whether ﬂow control applies to a frame. Of the frames speciﬁed in
this document, only DATA frames are subject to ﬂow control; all other frame types do not
consume space in the advertised ﬂow-control window. This ensures that important control
frames are not blocked by ﬂow control.

6.

An endpoint can choose to disable its own ﬂow control, but an endpoint cannot ignore ﬂow-
control signals from its peer.

7.

HTTP/2 deﬁnes only the format and semantics of the WINDOW_UPDATE frame (Section 6.9).
This document does not stipulate how a receiver decides when to send this frame or the value
that it sends, nor does it specify how a sender chooses to send packets. Implementations are
able to select any algorithm that suits their needs.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

Implementations are also responsible for prioritizing the sending of requests and responses,
choosing how to avoid head-of-line blocking for requests, and managing the creation of new
streams. Algorithm choices for these could interact with any ﬂow-control algorithm.

5.2.2.  Appropriate Use of Flow Control

Flow control is deﬁned to protect endpoints that are operating under resource constraints. For
example, a proxy needs to share memory between many connections and also might have a slow
upstream connection and a fast downstream one. Flow control addresses cases where the
receiver is unable to process data on one stream yet wants to continue to process other streams
in the same connection.

Deployments that do not require this capability can advertise a ﬂow-control window of the
maximum size (231-1) and can maintain this window by sending a WINDOW_UPDATE frame
when any data is received. This eﬀectively disables ﬂow control for that receiver. Conversely, a
sender is always subject to the ﬂow-control window advertised by the receiver.

Deployments with constrained resources (for example, memory) can employ ﬂow control to limit
the amount of memory a peer can consume. Note, however, that this can lead to suboptimal use
of available network resources if ﬂow control is enabled without knowledge of the bandwidth *
delay product (see

[RFC7323]

).

Even with full awareness of the current bandwidth * delay product, implementation of ﬂow
control can be diﬃcult. Endpoints
buﬀer as soon as data is available. Failure to read promptly could lead to a deadlock when critical
frames, such as WINDOW_UPDATE, are not read and acted upon. Reading frames promptly does
not expose endpoints to resource exhaustion attacks, as HTTP/2 ﬂow control limits resource
commitments.

 read and process HTTP/2 frames from the TCP receive

MUST

5.2.3.  Flow-Control Performance

If an endpoint cannot ensure that its peer always has available ﬂow-control window space that is
greater than the peer's bandwidth * delay product on this connection, its receive throughput will
be limited by HTTP/2 ﬂow control. This will result in degraded performance.

Sending timely WINDOW_UPDATE frames can improve performance. Endpoints will want to
balance the need to improve receive throughput with the need to manage resource exhaustion
risks and should take careful note of Section 10.5 in deﬁning their strategy to manage window
sizes.

5.3.  Prioritization

In a multiplexed protocol like HTTP/2, prioritizing allocation of bandwidth and computation
resources to streams can be critical to attaining good performance. A poor prioritization scheme
can result in HTTP/2 providing poor performance. With no parallelism at the TCP layer,
performance could be signiﬁcantly worse than HTTP/1.1.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

A good prioritization scheme beneﬁts from the application of contextual knowledge such as the
content of resources, how resources are interrelated, and how those resources will be used by a
peer. In particular, clients can possess knowledge about the priority of requests that is relevant to
server prioritization. In those cases, having clients provide priority information can improve
performance.

5.3.1.  Background on Priority in RFC 7540

RFC 7540 deﬁned a rich system for signaling priority of requests. However, this system proved to
be complex, and it was not uniformly implemented.

The ﬂexible scheme meant that it was possible for clients to express priorities in very diﬀerent
ways, with little consistency in the approaches that were adopted. For servers, implementing
generic support for the scheme was complex. Implementation of priorities was uneven in both
clients and servers. Many server deployments ignored client signals when prioritizing their
handling of requests.

In short, the prioritization signaling in

RFC 7540 [RFC7540]

 was not successful.

5.3.2.  Priority Signaling in This Document

. The bulk of
This update to HTTP/2 deprecates the priority signaling deﬁned in
the text related to priority signals is not included in this document. The description of frame ﬁelds
and some of the mandatory handling is retained to ensure that implementations of this
document remain interoperable with implementations that use the priority signaling described
in RFC 7540.

RFC 7540 [RFC7540]

A thorough description of the RFC 7540 priority scheme remains in

Section 5.3 of [RFC7540]

.

Signaling priority information is necessary to attain good performance in many cases. Where
signaling priority information is important, endpoints are encouraged to use an alternative
scheme, such as the scheme described in

[HTTP-PRIORITY]

.

Though the priority signaling from RFC 7540 was not widely adopted, the information it provides
can still be useful in the absence of better information. Endpoints that receive priority signals in
HEADERS or PRIORITY frames can beneﬁt from applying that information. In particular,
implementations that consume these signals would not beneﬁt from discarding these priority
signals in the absence of alternatives.

SHOULD

 use other contextual information in determining priority of requests in the
 interpret the complete absence of signals as an

Servers
absence of any priority signals. Servers
MAY
indication that the client has not implemented the feature. The defaults described in
of [RFC7540]
unlikely to be deliberate.

 are known to have poor performance under most conditions, and their use is

Section 5.3.5

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

5.4.  Error Handling

HTTP/2 framing permits two classes of errors:

•

An error condition that renders the entire connection unusable is a connection error.

•

An error in an individual stream is a stream error.

A list of error codes is included in Section 7.

It is possible that an endpoint will encounter frames that would cause multiple errors.
Implementations
most one stream and one connection error as a result.

 discover multiple errors during processing, but they

SHOULD

MAY

 report at

The ﬁrst stream error reported for a given stream prevents any other errors on that stream from
being reported. In comparison, the protocol permits multiple GOAWAY frames, though an
endpoint
graceful shutdown. If this occurs, an endpoint
new error code, in addition to any prior GOAWAY that contained NO_ERROR.

 report just one type of connection error unless an error is encountered during

 send an additional GOAWAY frame with the

SHOULD

MAY

If an endpoint detects multiple diﬀerent errors, it
a frame causes a connection error, that error
MAY
use any applicable error code when it detects an error condition; a generic error code (such as
PROTOCOL_ERROR or INTERNAL_ERROR) can always be used in place of more speciﬁc error
codes.

 be reported. Additionally, an endpoint

 choose to report any one of those errors. If

MUST

MAY

5.4.1.  Connection Error Handling

A connection error is any error that prevents further processing of the frame layer or corrupts
any connection state.

An endpoint that encounters a connection error
with the stream identiﬁer of the last stream that it successfully received from its peer. The
GOAWAY frame includes an
terminating. After sending the GOAWAY frame for an error condition, the endpoint
the TCP connection.

 that indicates why the connection is

error code (Section 7)

SHOULD

MUST

 ﬁrst send a GOAWAY frame (Section 6.8)

 close

It is possible that the GOAWAY will not be reliably received by the receiving endpoint. In the event
of a connection error, GOAWAY only provides a best-eﬀort attempt to communicate with the peer
about why the connection is being terminated.

An endpoint can end a connection at any time. In particular, an endpoint
stream error as a connection error. Endpoints
connection, providing that circumstances permit it.

SHOULD

 send a GOAWAY frame when ending a

MAY

 choose to treat a

5.4.2.  Stream Error Handling

A stream error is an error related to a speciﬁc stream that does not aﬀect processing of other
streams.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

An endpoint that detects a stream error sends a RST_STREAM frame (Section 6.4) that contains
the stream identiﬁer of the stream where the error occurred. The RST_STREAM frame includes an
error code that indicates the type of error.

A RST_STREAM is the last frame that an endpoint can send on a stream. The peer that sends the
RST_STREAM frame
sending by the remote peer. These frames can be ignored, except where they modify connection
state (such as the state maintained for

 be prepared to receive any frames that were sent or enqueued for

ﬁeld section compression (Section 4.3)

 or ﬂow control).

MUST

SHOULD NOT

Normally, an endpoint
However, an endpoint
stream after more than a round-trip time. This behavior is permitted to deal with misbehaving
implementations.

 send more than one RST_STREAM frame for any stream.

 send additional RST_STREAM frames if it receives frames on a closed

MAY

To avoid looping, an endpoint
frame.

MUST NOT

5.4.3.  Connection Termination

 send a RST_STREAM in response to a RST_STREAM

If the TCP connection is closed or reset while streams remain in the "open" or "half-closed" states,
then the aﬀected streams cannot be automatically retried (see Section 8.7 for details).

5.5.  Extending HTTP/2

HTTP/2 permits extension of the protocol. Within the limitations described in this section,
protocol extensions can be used to provide additional services or alter any aspect of the protocol.
Extensions are eﬀective only within the scope of a single HTTP/2 connection.

This applies to the protocol elements deﬁned in this document. This does not aﬀect the existing
options for extending HTTP, such as deﬁning new methods, status codes, or ﬁelds (see
of [HTTP]

Section 16

).

Extensions are permitted to use new
error codes (Section 7)
of [RFC7540]

.

frame types (Section 4.1)

, new

settings (Section 6.5)

. Registries for managing these extension points are deﬁned in

, or new
Section 11

MUST

 ignore unknown or unsupported values in all extensible protocol

Implementations
elements. Implementations
means that any of these extension points can be safely used by extensions without prior
arrangement or negotiation. However, extension frames that appear in the middle of a
block (Section 4.3)
of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 are not permitted; these

 be treated as a

 discard frames that have unknown or unsupported types. This

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

MUST

MUST

ﬁeld

SHOULD

 avoid changing protocol elements deﬁned in this document or elements for

Extensions
which no extension mechanism is deﬁned. This includes changes to the layout of frames,
additions or changes to the way that frames are composed into
, the
deﬁnition of pseudo-header ﬁelds, or changes to any protocol element that a compliant endpoint
.
might treat as a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

HTTP messages (Section 8.1)

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

 be negotiated before being
An extension that changes existing protocol elements or state
used. For example, an extension that changes the layout of the HEADERS frame cannot be used
until the peer has given a positive signal that this is acceptable. In this case, it could also be
necessary to coordinate when the revised layout comes into eﬀect. For example, treating frames
other than DATA frames as ﬂow controlled requires a change in semantics that both endpoints
need to understand, so this can only be done through negotiation.

MUST

setting (Section 6.5.2)

This document doesn't mandate a speciﬁc method for negotiating the use of an extension but
 could be used for that purpose. If both peers set a value that
notes that a
indicates willingness to use the extension, then the extension can be used. If a setting is used for
extension negotiation, the initial value
initially disabled.

 be deﬁned in such a fashion that the extension is

MUST

6.  Frame Deﬁnitions

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes a number of frame types, each identiﬁed by a unique 8-bit type code.
Each frame type serves a distinct purpose in the establishment and management of either the
connection as a whole or individual streams.

The transmission of speciﬁc frame types can alter the state of a connection. If endpoints fail to
maintain a synchronized view of the connection state, successful communication within the
connection will no longer be possible. Therefore, it is important that endpoints have a shared
comprehension of how the state is aﬀected by the use of any given frame.

6.1.  DATA

DATA frames (type=0x00) convey arbitrary, variable-length sequences of octets associated with a
stream. One or more DATA frames are used, for instance, to carry HTTP request or response
message contents.

DATA frames
of messages. Padding is a security feature; see Section 10.7.

MAY

 also contain padding. Padding can be added to DATA frames to obscure the size

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

DATA Frame {
  Length (24),
  Type (8) = 0x00,

  Unused Flags (4),
  PADDED Flag (1),
  Unused Flags (2),
  END_STREAM Flag (1),

  Reserved (1),
  Stream Identifier (31),

  [Pad Length (8)],
  Data (..),
  Padding (..2040),
}

Figure 3: DATA Frame Format

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identiﬁer ﬁelds are described in Section
4. The DATA frame contains the following additional ﬁelds:

Pad Length:

An 8-bit ﬁeld containing the length of the frame padding in units of octets. This ﬁeld

is conditional and is only present if the PADDED ﬂag is set.

Data:

Application data. The amount of data is the remainder of the frame payload after

subtracting the length of the other ﬁelds that are present.

Padding:

Padding octets that contain no application semantic value. Padding octets

MUST

 be set

to zero when sending. A receiver is not obligated to verify padding but
padding as a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MAY

 treat non-zero

The DATA frame deﬁnes the following ﬂags:

PADDED (0x08):

When set, the PADDED ﬂag indicates that the Pad Length ﬁeld and any padding

that it describes are present.

END_STREAM (0x01):

When set, the END_STREAM ﬂag indicates that this frame is the last that

the endpoint will send for the identiﬁed stream. Setting this ﬂag causes the stream to enter one
of

the "half-closed" states or the "closed" state (Section 5.1)

.

Note: An endpoint that learns of stream closure after sending all data can close a
stream by sending a STREAM frame with a zero-length Data ﬁeld and the
END_STREAM ﬂag set. This is only possible if the endpoint does not send trailers, as
the END_STREAM ﬂag appears on a HEADERS frame in that case; see Section 8.1.

MUST

DATA frames
Identiﬁer ﬁeld is 0x00, the recipient
PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 be associated with a stream. If a DATA frame is received whose Stream

MUST

 respond with a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

DATA frames are subject to ﬂow control and can only be sent when a stream is in the "open" or
"half-closed (remote)" state. The entire DATA frame payload is included in ﬂow control, including
the Pad Length and Padding ﬁelds if present. If a DATA frame is received whose stream is not in
the "open" or "half-closed (local)" state, the recipient
stream error (Section
5.4.2)

 of type STREAM_CLOSED.

 respond with a

MUST

The total number of padding octets is determined by the value of the Pad Length ﬁeld. If the
length of the padding is the length of the frame payload or greater, the recipient
a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST

 treat this as

Note: A frame can be increased in size by one octet by including a Pad Length ﬁeld
with a value of zero.

6.2.  HEADERS

, and additionally carries a
The HEADERS frame (type=0x01) is used to
ﬁeld block fragment. Despite the name, a HEADERS frame can carry a header section or a trailer
section. HEADERS frames can be sent on a stream in the "idle", "reserved (local)", "open", or "half-
closed (remote)" state.

open a stream (Section 5.1)

HEADERS Frame {
  Length (24),
  Type (8) = 0x01,

  Unused Flags (2),
  PRIORITY Flag (1),
  Unused Flag (1),
  PADDED Flag (1),
  END_HEADERS Flag (1),
  Unused Flag (1),
  END_STREAM Flag (1),

  Reserved (1),
  Stream Identifier (31),

  [Pad Length (8)],
  [Exclusive (1)],
  [Stream Dependency (31)],
  [Weight (8)],
  Field Block Fragment (..),
  Padding (..2040),
}

Figure 4: HEADERS Frame Format

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identiﬁer ﬁelds are described in Section
4. The HEADERS frame payload has the following additional ﬁelds:

Pad Length:

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

An 8-bit ﬁeld containing the length of the frame padding in units of octets. This ﬁeld is only
present if the PADDED ﬂag is set.

Exclusive:

A single-bit ﬂag. This ﬁeld is only present if the PRIORITY ﬂag is set. Priority signals in

HEADERS frames are deprecated; see Section 5.3.2.

Stream Dependency:

A 31-bit stream identiﬁer. This ﬁeld is only present if the PRIORITY ﬂag is

set.

Weight:

An unsigned 8-bit integer. This ﬁeld is only present if the PRIORITY ﬂag is set.

Field Block Fragment:

A

ﬁeld block fragment (Section 4.3)

.

Padding:

Padding octets that contain no application semantic value. Padding octets

MUST

 be set

to zero when sending. A receiver is not obligated to verify padding but
padding as a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MAY

 treat non-zero

The HEADERS frame deﬁnes the following ﬂags:

PRIORITY (0x20):

When set, the PRIORITY ﬂag indicates that the Exclusive, Stream Dependency,

and Weight ﬁelds are present.

PADDED (0x08):

When set, the PADDED ﬂag indicates that the Pad Length ﬁeld and any padding

that it describes are present.

END_HEADERS (0x04):

When set, the END_HEADERS ﬂag indicates that this frame contains an

entire

ﬁeld block (Section 4.3)

 and is not followed by any CONTINUATION frames.

A HEADERS frame without the END_HEADERS ﬂag set
frame for the same stream. A receiver
frame on a diﬀerent stream as a

MUST

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 treat the receipt of any other type of frame or a
 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST

 be followed by a CONTINUATION

END_STREAM (0x01):

When set, the END_STREAM ﬂag indicates that the

ﬁeld block (Section 4.3)

is the last that the endpoint will send for the identiﬁed stream.

A HEADERS frame with the END_STREAM ﬂag set signals the end of a stream. However, a
HEADERS frame with the END_STREAM ﬂag set can be followed by CONTINUATION frames on
the same stream. Logically, the CONTINUATION frames are part of the HEADERS frame.

The frame payload of a HEADERS frame contains a
block that does not ﬁt within a HEADERS frame is continued in a
6.10)

.

ﬁeld block fragment (Section 4.3)

. A ﬁeld

CONTINUATION frame (Section

HEADERS frames
Stream Identiﬁer ﬁeld is 0x00, the recipient
of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST

 be associated with a stream. If a HEADERS frame is received whose
 respond with a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

MUST

The HEADERS frame changes the connection state as described in Section 4.3.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

The total number of padding octets is determined by the value of the Pad Length ﬁeld. If the
length of the padding is the length of the frame payload or greater, the recipient
a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST

 treat this as

Note: A frame can be increased in size by one octet by including a Pad Length ﬁeld
with a value of zero.

6.3.  PRIORITY

The PRIORITY frame (type=0x02) is deprecated; see Section 5.3.2. A PRIORITY frame can be sent in
any stream state, including idle or closed streams.

PRIORITY Frame {
  Length (24) = 0x05,
  Type (8) = 0x02,

  Unused Flags (8),

  Reserved (1),
  Stream Identifier (31),

  Exclusive (1),
  Stream Dependency (31),
  Weight (8),
}

Figure 5: PRIORITY Frame Format

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identiﬁer ﬁelds are described in Section
4. The frame payload of a PRIORITY frame contains the following additional ﬁelds:

Exclusive:

A single-bit ﬂag.

Stream Dependency:

A 31-bit stream identiﬁer.

Weight:

An unsigned 8-bit integer.

The PRIORITY frame does not deﬁne any ﬂags.

The PRIORITY frame always identiﬁes a stream. If a PRIORITY frame is received with a stream
identiﬁer of 0x00, the recipient
PROTOCOL_ERROR.

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 respond with a

 of type

MUST

Sending or receiving a PRIORITY frame does not aﬀect the state of any stream (Section 5.1). The
PRIORITY frame can be sent on a stream in any state, including "idle" or "closed". A PRIORITY
frame cannot be sent between consecutive frames that comprise a single

ﬁeld block (Section 4.3)

.

A PRIORITY frame with a length other than 5 octets
5.4.2)

 of type FRAME_SIZE_ERROR.

MUST

 be treated as a

stream error (Section

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

6.4.  RST_STREAM

The RST_STREAM frame (type=0x03) allows for immediate termination of a stream. RST_STREAM
is sent to request cancellation of a stream or to indicate that an error condition has occurred.

RST_STREAM Frame {
  Length (24) = 0x04,
  Type (8) = 0x03,

  Unused Flags (8),

  Reserved (1),
  Stream Identifier (31),

  Error Code (32),
}

Figure 6: RST_STREAM Frame Format

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identiﬁer ﬁelds are described in Section
4. Additionally, the RST_STREAM frame contains a single unsigned, 32-bit integer identifying the
error code (Section 7)

. The error code indicates why the stream is being terminated.

The RST_STREAM frame does not deﬁne any ﬂags.

The RST_STREAM frame fully terminates the referenced stream and causes it to enter the "closed"
state. After receiving a RST_STREAM on a stream, the receiver
for that stream, except for PRIORITY. However, after sending the RST_STREAM, the sending
endpoint
might have been sent by the peer prior to the arrival of the RST_STREAM.

 be prepared to receive and process additional frames sent on the stream that

 send additional frames

MUST NOT

MUST

RST_STREAM frames
stream identiﬁer of 0x00, the recipient
PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST

 be associated with a stream. If a RST_STREAM frame is received with a
 of type

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 treat this as a

MUST

RST_STREAM frames
MUST NOT
identifying an idle stream is received, the recipient
5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 be sent for a stream in the "idle" state. If a RST_STREAM frame

MUST

 treat this as a

connection error (Section

A RST_STREAM frame with a length other than 4 octets
(Section 5.4.1)
 of type FRAME_SIZE_ERROR.

MUST

 be treated as a

connection error

6.5.  SETTINGS

The SETTINGS frame (type=0x04) conveys conﬁguration parameters that aﬀect how endpoints
communicate, such as preferences and constraints on peer behavior. The SETTINGS frame is also
used to acknowledge the receipt of those settings. Individually, a conﬁguration parameter from a
SETTINGS frame is referred to as a "setting".

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

Settings are not negotiated; they describe characteristics of the sending peer, which are used by
the receiving peer. Diﬀerent values for the same setting can be advertised by each peer. For
example, a client might set a high initial ﬂow-control window, whereas a server might set a lower
value to conserve resources.

A SETTINGS frame
at any other time by either endpoint over the lifetime of the connection. Implementations
support all of the settings deﬁned by this speciﬁcation.

 be sent by both endpoints at the start of a connection and

MUST

MAY

 be sent
MUST

Each parameter in a SETTINGS frame replaces any existing value for that parameter. Settings are
processed in the order in which they appear, and a receiver of a SETTINGS frame does not need to
maintain any state other than the current value of each setting. Therefore, the value of a
SETTINGS parameter is the last value that is seen by a receiver.

SETTINGS frames are acknowledged by the receiving peer. To enable this, the SETTINGS frame
deﬁnes the ACK ﬂag:

ACK (0x01):

When set, the ACK ﬂag indicates that this frame acknowledges receipt and

application of the peer's SETTINGS frame. When this bit is set, the frame payload of the
SETTINGS frame
length ﬁeld value other than 0
 of type
FRAME_SIZE_ERROR. For more information, see Section 6.5.3 ("Settings Synchronization").

 be empty. Receipt of a SETTINGS frame with the ACK ﬂag set and a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 be treated as a

MUST

MUST

SETTINGS frames always apply to a connection, never a single stream. The stream identiﬁer for a
SETTINGS frame
Identiﬁer ﬁeld is anything other than 0x00, the endpoint
(Section 5.4.1)
 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 be zero (0x00). If an endpoint receives a SETTINGS frame whose Stream
connection error
MUST

 respond with a

MUST

The SETTINGS frame aﬀects connection state. A badly formed or incomplete SETTINGS frame
MUST

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 be treated as a

A SETTINGS frame with a length other than a multiple of 6 octets
error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type FRAME_SIZE_ERROR.

MUST

 be treated as a

connection

6.5.1.  SETTINGS Format

The frame payload of a SETTINGS frame consists of zero or more settings, each consisting of an
unsigned 16-bit setting identiﬁer and an unsigned 32-bit value.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

SETTINGS Frame {
  Length (24),
  Type (8) = 0x04,

  Unused Flags (7),
  ACK Flag (1),

  Reserved (1),
  Stream Identifier (31) = 0,

  Setting (48) ...,
}

Setting {
  Identifier (16),
  Value (32),
}

Figure 7: SETTINGS Frame Format

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identiﬁer ﬁelds are described in Section
4. The frame payload of a SETTINGS frame contains any number of Setting ﬁelds, each of which
consists of:

Identiﬁer:

A 16-bit setting identiﬁer; see Section 6.5.2.

Value:

A 32-bit value for the setting.

6.5.2.  Deﬁned Settings

The following settings are deﬁned:

SETTINGS_HEADER_TABLE_SIZE (0x01):

This setting allows the sender to inform the remote

endpoint of the maximum size of the compression table used to decode ﬁeld blocks, in units of
octets. The encoder can select any size equal to or less than this value by using signaling
speciﬁc to the compression format inside a ﬁeld block (see
is 4,096 octets.

). The initial value

[COMPRESSION]

SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH (0x02):

This setting can be used to enable or disable server push. A

MUST NOT

 send a PUSH_PROMISE frame if it receives this parameter set to a value of 0;

server
see Section 8.4. A client that has both set this parameter to 0 and had it acknowledged
treat the receipt of a PUSH_PROMISE frame as a
PROTOCOL_ERROR.

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type

MUST

The initial value of SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH is 1. For a client, this value indicates that it is
willing to receive PUSH_PROMISE frames. For a server, this initial value has no eﬀect, and is
equivalent to the value 0. Any value other than 0 or 1
connection error
(Section 5.4.1)
 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 be treated as a

MUST

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

MUST NOT

 explicitly set this value to 1. A server

A server
it sends a SETTINGS frame, but if a server does include a value, it
treat receipt of a SETTINGS frame with SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH set to 1 as a
(Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MAY

 choose to omit this setting when
 be 0. A client

MUST

MUST
connection error

SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS (0x03):

This setting indicates the maximum number

of concurrent streams that the sender will allow. This limit is directional: it applies to the
number of streams that the sender permits the receiver to create. Initially, there is no limit to
this value. It is recommended that this value be no smaller than 100, so as to not unnecessarily
limit parallelism.

A value of 0 for SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS
endpoints. A zero value does prevent the creation of new streams; however, this can also
happen for any limit that is exhausted with active streams. Servers
value for short durations; if a server does not wish to accept requests, closing the connection is
more appropriate.

 be treated as special by

 only set a zero

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

SETTINGS_INITIAL_WINDOW_SIZE (0x04):

This setting indicates the sender's initial window size

(in units of octets) for stream-level ﬂow control. The initial value is 216-1 (65,535) octets.

This setting aﬀects the window size of all streams (see Section 6.9.2).

Values above the maximum ﬂow-control window size of 231-1
connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type FLOW_CONTROL_ERROR.

MUST

 be treated as a

SETTINGS_MAX_FRAME_SIZE (0x05):

This setting indicates the size of the largest frame payload

that the sender is willing to receive, in units of octets.

The initial value is 214 (16,384) octets. The value advertised by an endpoint
 be between
this initial value and the maximum allowed frame size (224-1 or 16,777,215 octets), inclusive.
Values outside this range
PROTOCOL_ERROR.

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 be treated as a

 of type

MUST

MUST

SETTINGS_MAX_HEADER_LIST_SIZE (0x06):

This advisory setting informs a peer of the

maximum ﬁeld section size that the sender is prepared to accept, in units of octets. The value
is based on the uncompressed size of ﬁeld lines, including the length of the name and value in
units of octets plus an overhead of 32 octets for each ﬁeld line.

For any given request, a lower limit than what is advertised
of this setting is unlimited.

MAY

 be enforced. The initial value

An endpoint that receives a SETTINGS frame with any unknown or unsupported identiﬁer
ignore that setting.

MUST

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

6.5.3.  Settings Synchronization

Most values in SETTINGS beneﬁt from or require an understanding of when the peer has received
and applied the changed parameter values. In order to provide such synchronization timepoints,
the recipient of a SETTINGS frame in which the ACK ﬂag is not set
 apply the updated settings
as soon as possible upon receipt. SETTINGS frames are acknowledged in the order in which they
are received.

MUST

The values in the SETTINGS frame
frame processing between values. Unsupported settings
been processed, the recipient
Upon receiving a SETTINGS frame with the ACK ﬂag set, the sender of the altered settings can rely
on the values from the oldest unacknowledged SETTINGS frame having been applied.

 be ignored. Once all values have
 immediately emit a SETTINGS frame with the ACK ﬂag set.

 be processed in the order they appear, with no other

MUST

MUST

MUST

If the sender of a SETTINGS frame does not receive an acknowledgment within a reasonable
amount of time, it
connection error (Section 5.4.1)
setting a timeout, some allowance needs to be made for processing delays at the peer; a timeout
that is solely based on the round-trip time between endpoints might result in spurious errors.

 of type SETTINGS_TIMEOUT. In

 issue a

MAY

6.6.  PUSH_PROMISE

The PUSH_PROMISE frame (type=0x05) is used to notify the peer endpoint in advance of streams
the sender intends to initiate. The PUSH_PROMISE frame includes the unsigned 31-bit identiﬁer of
the stream the endpoint plans to create along with a ﬁeld section that provides additional
context for the stream. Section 8.4 contains a thorough description of the use of PUSH_PROMISE
frames.

PUSH_PROMISE Frame {
  Length (24),
  Type (8) = 0x05,

  Unused Flags (4),
  PADDED Flag (1),
  END_HEADERS Flag (1),
  Unused Flags (2),

  Reserved (1),
  Stream Identifier (31),

  [Pad Length (8)],
  Reserved (1),
  Promised Stream ID (31),
  Field Block Fragment (..),
  Padding (..2040),
}

Figure 8: PUSH_PROMISE Frame Format

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identiﬁer ﬁelds are described in Section
4. The PUSH_PROMISE frame payload has the following additional ﬁelds:

Pad Length:

An 8-bit ﬁeld containing the length of the frame padding in units of octets. This ﬁeld

is only present if the PADDED ﬂag is set.

Promised Stream ID:

An unsigned 31-bit integer that identiﬁes the stream that is reserved by the

PUSH_PROMISE. The promised stream identiﬁer
sent by the sender (see "new stream identiﬁer" in Section 5.1.1).

MUST

 be a valid choice for the next stream

Field Block Fragment:

A

ﬁeld block fragment (Section 4.3)

 containing the request control data

and a header section.

Padding:

Padding octets that contain no application semantic value. Padding octets

MUST

 be set

to zero when sending. A receiver is not obligated to verify padding but
padding as a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MAY

 treat non-zero

The PUSH_PROMISE frame deﬁnes the following ﬂags:

PADDED (0x08):

When set, the PADDED ﬂag indicates that the Pad Length ﬁeld and any padding

that it describes are present.

END_HEADERS (0x04):

When set, the END_HEADERS ﬂag indicates that this frame contains an

entire

ﬁeld block (Section 4.3)

 and is not followed by any CONTINUATION frames.

A PUSH_PROMISE frame without the END_HEADERS ﬂag set
CONTINUATION frame for the same stream. A receiver
MUST
of frame or a frame on a diﬀerent stream as a
PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 be followed by a

MUST
 treat the receipt of any other type

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type

MUST

PUSH_PROMISE frames
 only be sent on a peer-initiated stream that is in either the "open" or
"half-closed (remote)" state. The stream identiﬁer of a PUSH_PROMISE frame indicates the stream
it is associated with. If the Stream Identiﬁer ﬁeld speciﬁes the value 0x00, a recipient
respond with a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST

Promised streams are not required to be used in the order they are promised. The PUSH_PROMISE
only reserves stream identiﬁers for later use.

MUST NOT

PUSH_PROMISE
set to 0. An endpoint that has set this setting and has received acknowledgment
receipt of a PUSH_PROMISE frame as a
 of type
PROTOCOL_ERROR.

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 be sent if the SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH setting of the peer endpoint is

MUST

 treat the

Recipients of PUSH_PROMISE frames can choose to reject promised streams by returning a
RST_STREAM referencing the promised stream identiﬁer back to the sender of the
PUSH_PROMISE.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

A PUSH_PROMISE frame modiﬁes the connection state in two ways. First, the inclusion of a
block (Section 4.3)
 potentially modiﬁes the state maintained for ﬁeld section compression.
Second, PUSH_PROMISE also reserves a stream for later use, causing the promised stream to
enter the "reserved (local)" or "reserved (remote)" state. A sender
PUSH_PROMISE on a stream unless that stream is either "open" or "half-closed (remote)"; the
sender
MUST
(Section 5.1.1)

 ensure that the promised stream is a valid choice for a
 (that is, the promised stream

new stream identiﬁer

 be in the "idle" state).

MUST NOT

 send a

MUST

ﬁeld

Since PUSH_PROMISE reserves a stream, ignoring a PUSH_PROMISE frame causes the stream
state to become indeterminate. A receiver
that is neither "open" nor "half-closed (local)" as a
PROTOCOL_ERROR. However, an endpoint that has sent RST_STREAM on the associated stream
 handle PUSH_PROMISE frames that might have been created before the RST_STREAM
MUST
frame is received and processed.

 treat the receipt of a PUSH_PROMISE on a stream

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type

MUST

MUST

 treat the receipt of a PUSH_PROMISE that promises an

A receiver
(Section 5.1.1)
stream identiﬁer is an identiﬁer for a stream that is not currently in the "idle" state.

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 as a

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR. Note that an illegal

illegal stream identiﬁer

The total number of padding octets is determined by the value of the Pad Length ﬁeld. If the
length of the padding is the length of the frame payload or greater, the recipient
a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST

 treat this as

Note: A frame can be increased in size by one octet by including a Pad Length ﬁeld
with a value of zero.

6.7.  PING

The PING frame (type=0x06) is a mechanism for measuring a minimal round-trip time from the
sender, as well as determining whether an idle connection is still functional. PING frames can be
sent from any endpoint.

PING Frame {
  Length (24) = 0x08,
  Type (8) = 0x06,

  Unused Flags (7),
  ACK Flag (1),

  Reserved (1),
  Stream Identifier (31) = 0,

  Opaque Data (64),
}

Figure 9: PING Frame Format

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identiﬁer ﬁelds are described in Section
4.

In addition to the frame header, PING frames
payload. A sender can include any value it chooses and use those octets in any fashion.

 contain 8 octets of opaque data in the frame

MUST

Receivers of a PING frame that does not include an ACK ﬂag
ACK ﬂag set in response, with an identical frame payload. PING responses
higher priority than any other frame.

MUST

 send a PING frame with the

SHOULD

 be given

The PING frame deﬁnes the following ﬂags:

ACK (0x01):

When set, the ACK ﬂag indicates that this PING frame is a PING response. An
MUST

 set this ﬂag in PING responses. An endpoint

MUST NOT

 respond to PING frames

endpoint
containing this ﬂag.

PING frames are not associated with any individual stream. If a PING frame is received with a
Stream Identiﬁer ﬁeld value other than 0x00, the recipient
(Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 respond with a

MUST

connection error

Receipt of a PING frame with a length ﬁeld value other than 8
error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type FRAME_SIZE_ERROR.

MUST

 be treated as a

connection

6.8.  GOAWAY

The GOAWAY frame (type=0x07) is used to initiate shutdown of a connection or to signal serious
error conditions. GOAWAY allows an endpoint to gracefully stop accepting new streams while still
ﬁnishing processing of previously established streams. This enables administrative actions, like
server maintenance.

There is an inherent race condition between an endpoint starting new streams and the remote
peer sending a GOAWAY frame. To deal with this case, the GOAWAY contains the stream identiﬁer
of the last peer-initiated stream that was or might be processed on the sending endpoint in this
connection. For instance, if the server sends a GOAWAY frame, the identiﬁed stream is the highest-
numbered stream initiated by the client.

Once the GOAWAY is sent, the sender will ignore frames sent on streams initiated by the receiver
if the stream has an identiﬁer higher than the included last stream identiﬁer. Receivers of a
GOAWAY frame
connection can be established for new streams.

 open additional streams on the connection, although a new

MUST NOT

If the receiver of the GOAWAY has sent data on streams with a higher stream identiﬁer than what
is indicated in the GOAWAY frame, those streams are not or will not be processed. The receiver of
the GOAWAY frame can treat the streams as though they had never been created at all, thereby
allowing those streams to be retried later on a new connection.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

SHOULD

 always send a GOAWAY frame before closing a connection so that the remote

Endpoints
peer can know whether a stream has been partially processed or not. For example, if an HTTP
client sends a POST at the same time that a server closes a connection, the client cannot know if
the server started to process that POST request if the server does not send a GOAWAY frame to
indicate what streams it might have acted on.

An endpoint might choose to close a connection without sending a GOAWAY for misbehaving
peers.

A GOAWAY frame might not immediately precede closing of the connection; a receiver of a
GOAWAY that has no more use for the connection
terminating the connection.

 still send a GOAWAY frame before

SHOULD

GOAWAY Frame {
  Length (24),
  Type (8) = 0x07,

  Unused Flags (8),

  Reserved (1),
  Stream Identifier (31) = 0,

  Reserved (1),
  Last-Stream-ID (31),
  Error Code (32),
  Additional Debug Data (..),
}

Figure 10: GOAWAY Frame Format

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identiﬁer ﬁelds are described in Section
4.

The GOAWAY frame does not deﬁne any ﬂags.

The GOAWAY frame applies to the connection, not a speciﬁc stream. An endpoint
GOAWAY frame with a stream identiﬁer other than 0x00 as a
type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

MUST

 treat a
 of

The last stream identiﬁer in the GOAWAY frame contains the highest-numbered stream identiﬁer
for which the sender of the GOAWAY frame might have taken some action on or might yet take
action on. All streams up to and including the identiﬁed stream might have been processed in
some way. The last stream identiﬁer can be set to 0 if no streams were processed.

Note: In this context, "processed" means that some data from the stream was passed
to some higher layer of software that might have taken some action as a result.

If a connection terminates without a GOAWAY frame, the last stream identiﬁer is eﬀectively the
highest possible stream identiﬁer.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

On streams with lower- or equal-numbered identiﬁers that were not closed completely prior to
the connection being closed, reattempting requests, transactions, or any protocol activity is not
possible, except for idempotent actions like HTTP GET, PUT, or DELETE. Any protocol activity that
uses higher-numbered streams can be safely retried using a new connection.

Activity on streams numbered lower than or equal to the last stream identiﬁer might still
complete successfully. The sender of a GOAWAY frame might gracefully shut down a connection
by sending a GOAWAY frame, maintaining the connection in an "open" state until all in-progress
streams complete.

MAY

 send multiple GOAWAY frames if circumstances change. For instance, an

An endpoint
endpoint that sends GOAWAY with NO_ERROR during graceful shutdown could subsequently
encounter a condition that requires immediate termination of the connection. The last stream
identiﬁer from the last GOAWAY frame received indicates which streams could have been acted
upon. Endpoints
peers might already have retried unprocessed requests on another connection.

 increase the value they send in the last stream identiﬁer, since the

MUST NOT

A client that is unable to retry requests loses all requests that are in ﬂight when the server closes
the connection. This is especially true for intermediaries that might not be serving clients using
HTTP/2. A server that is attempting to gracefully shut down a connection
 send an initial
GOAWAY frame with the last stream identiﬁer set to 231-1 and a NO_ERROR code. This signals to
the client that a shutdown is imminent and that initiating further requests is prohibited. After
allowing time for any in-ﬂight stream creation (at least one round-trip time), the server
another GOAWAY frame with an updated last stream identiﬁer. This ensures that a connection
can be cleanly shut down without losing requests.

SHOULD

MAY

 send

After sending a GOAWAY frame, the sender can discard frames for streams initiated by the
receiver with identiﬁers higher than the identiﬁed last stream. However, any frames that alter
connection state cannot be completely ignored. For instance, HEADERS, PUSH_PROMISE, and
CONTINUATION frames
 be minimally processed to ensure that the state maintained for
ﬁeld section compression is consistent (see Section 4.3); similarly, DATA frames
toward the connection ﬂow-control window. Failure to process these frames can cause ﬂow
control or ﬁeld section compression state to become unsynchronized.

MUST

MUST

 be counted

The GOAWAY frame also contains a 32-bit
closing the connection.

error code (Section 7)

 that contains the reason for

MAY

 append opaque data to the frame payload of any GOAWAY frame. Additional

Endpoints
debug data is intended for diagnostic purposes only and carries no semantic value. Debug
information could contain security- or privacy-sensitive data. Logged or otherwise persistently
stored debug data

 have adequate safeguards to prevent unauthorized access.

MUST

6.9.  WINDOW_UPDATE

The WINDOW_UPDATE frame (type=0x08) is used to implement ﬂow control; see Section 5.2 for
an overview.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

Flow control operates at two levels: on each individual stream and on the entire connection.

Both types of ﬂow control are hop by hop, that is, only between the two endpoints. Intermediaries
do not forward WINDOW_UPDATE frames between dependent connections. However, throttling
of data transfer by any receiver can indirectly cause the propagation of ﬂow-control information
toward the original sender.

Flow control only applies to frames that are identiﬁed as being subject to ﬂow control. Of the
frame types deﬁned in this document, this includes only DATA frames. Frames that are exempt
from ﬂow control
MUST
resources to handling the frame. A receiver
connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 be accepted and processed, unless the receiver is unable to assign
 respond with a

 of type FLOW_CONTROL_ERROR if it is unable to accept a frame.

stream error (Section 5.4.2)

MAY

 or

WINDOW_UPDATE Frame {
  Length (24) = 0x04,
  Type (8) = 0x08,

  Unused Flags (8),

  Reserved (1),
  Stream Identifier (31),

  Reserved (1),
  Window Size Increment (31),
}

Figure 11: WINDOW_UPDATE Frame Format

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identiﬁer ﬁelds are described in Section
4. The frame payload of a WINDOW_UPDATE frame is one reserved bit plus an unsigned 31-bit
integer indicating the number of octets that the sender can transmit in addition to the existing
ﬂow-control window. The legal range for the increment to the ﬂow-control window is 1 to 231-1
(2,147,483,647) octets.

The WINDOW_UPDATE frame does not deﬁne any ﬂags.

The WINDOW_UPDATE frame can be speciﬁc to a stream or to the entire connection. In the
former case, the frame's stream identiﬁer indicates the aﬀected stream; in the latter, the value "0"
indicates that the entire connection is the subject of the frame.

MUST

A receiver
increment of 0 as a
connection ﬂow-control window

 treat the receipt of a WINDOW_UPDATE frame with a ﬂow-control window

stream error (Section 5.4.2)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR; errors on the

MUST

 be treated as a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

.

WINDOW_UPDATE can be sent by a peer that has sent a frame with the END_STREAM ﬂag set.
This means that a receiver could receive a WINDOW_UPDATE frame on a stream in a "half-closed
(remote)" or "closed" state. A receiver

 treat this as an error (see Section 5.1).

MUST NOT

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

 always account for its contribution against
connection error (Section
. This is necessary even if the frame is in error. The sender counts the frame toward the ﬂow-

A receiver that receives a ﬂow-controlled frame
the connection ﬂow-control window, unless the receiver treats this as a
5.4.1)
control window, but if the receiver does not, the ﬂow-control window at the sender and receiver
can become diﬀerent.

MUST

A WINDOW_UPDATE frame with a length other than 4 octets
error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type FRAME_SIZE_ERROR.

MUST

 be treated as a

connection

6.9.1.  The Flow-Control Window

Flow control in HTTP/2 is implemented using a window kept by each sender on every stream. The
ﬂow-control window is a simple integer value that indicates how many octets of data the sender
is permitted to transmit; as such, its size is a measure of the buﬀering capacity of the receiver.

Two ﬂow-control windows are applicable: the stream ﬂow-control window and the connection
 send a ﬂow-controlled frame with a length that
ﬂow-control window. The sender
exceeds the space available in either of the ﬂow-control windows advertised by the receiver.
Frames with zero length with the END_STREAM ﬂag set (that is, an empty DATA frame)
sent if there is no available space in either ﬂow-control window.

MUST NOT

MAY

 be

For ﬂow-control calculations, the 9-octet frame header is not counted.

After sending a ﬂow-controlled frame, the sender reduces the space available in both windows by
the length of the transmitted frame.

The receiver of a frame sends a WINDOW_UPDATE frame as it consumes data and frees up space
in ﬂow-control windows. Separate WINDOW_UPDATE frames are sent for the stream- and
connection-level ﬂow-control windows. Receivers are advised to have mechanisms in place to
avoid sending WINDOW_UPDATE frames with very small increments; see
[RFC1122]

Section 4.2.3.3 of

.

A sender that receives a WINDOW_UPDATE frame updates the corresponding window by the
amount speciﬁed in the frame.

MUST NOT

 allow a ﬂow-control window to exceed 231-1 octets. If a sender receives a

A sender
WINDOW_UPDATE that causes a ﬂow-control window to exceed this maximum, it
terminate either the stream or the connection, as appropriate. For streams, the sender sends a
RST_STREAM with an error code of FLOW_CONTROL_ERROR; for the connection, a GOAWAY
frame with an error code of FLOW_CONTROL_ERROR is sent.

MUST

Flow-controlled frames from the sender and WINDOW_UPDATE frames from the receiver are
completely asynchronous with respect to each other. This property allows a receiver to
aggressively update the window size kept by the sender to prevent streams from stalling.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

6.9.2.  Initial Flow-Control Window Size

When an HTTP/2 connection is ﬁrst established, new streams are created with an initial ﬂow-
control window size of 65,535 octets. The connection ﬂow-control window is also 65,535 octets.
Both endpoints can adjust the initial window size for new streams by including a value for
SETTINGS_INITIAL_WINDOW_SIZE in the SETTINGS frame. The connection ﬂow-control window
can only be changed using WINDOW_UPDATE frames.

Prior to receiving a SETTINGS frame that sets a value for SETTINGS_INITIAL_WINDOW_SIZE, an
endpoint can only use the default initial window size when sending ﬂow-controlled frames.
Similarly, the connection ﬂow-control window is set based on the default initial window size until
a WINDOW_UPDATE frame is received.

In addition to changing the ﬂow-control window for streams that are not yet active, a SETTINGS
frame can alter the initial ﬂow-control window size for streams with active ﬂow-control windows
(that is, streams in the "open" or "half-closed (remote)" state). When the value of
SETTINGS_INITIAL_WINDOW_SIZE changes, a receiver
 adjust the size of all stream ﬂow-
control windows that it maintains by the diﬀerence between the new value and the old value.

MUST

A change to SETTINGS_INITIAL_WINDOW_SIZE can cause the available space in a ﬂow-control
window to become negative. A sender
MUST
 send new ﬂow-controlled frames until it receives WINDOW_UPDATE frames that cause the
NOT
ﬂow-control window to become positive.

 track the negative ﬂow-control window and

MUST

For example, if the client sends 60 KB immediately on connection establishment and the server
sets the initial window size to be 16 KB, the client will recalculate the available ﬂow-control
window to be -44 KB on receipt of the SETTINGS frame. The client retains a negative ﬂow-control
window until WINDOW_UPDATE frames restore the window to being positive, after which the
client can resume sending.

A SETTINGS frame cannot alter the connection ﬂow-control window.

MUST

An endpoint
control window to exceed the maximum size as a
FLOW_CONTROL_ERROR.

 treat a change to SETTINGS_INITIAL_WINDOW_SIZE that causes any ﬂow-

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type

6.9.3.  Reducing the Stream Window Size

A receiver that wishes to use a smaller ﬂow-control window than the current size can send a new
SETTINGS frame. However, the receiver
window size, since the sender might send data that exceeds the lower limit prior to processing the
SETTINGS frame.

 be prepared to receive data that exceeds this

MUST

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

After sending a SETTINGS frame that reduces the initial ﬂow-control window size, a receiver
continue to process streams that exceed ﬂow-control limits. Allowing streams to continue does
not allow the receiver to immediately reduce the space it reserves for ﬂow-control windows.
Progress on these streams can also stall, since WINDOW_UPDATE frames are needed to allow the
sender to resume sending. The receiver
FLOW_CONTROL_ERROR for the aﬀected streams.

 instead send a RST_STREAM with an error code of

MAY

MAY

6.10.  CONTINUATION

The CONTINUATION frame (type=0x09) is used to continue a sequence of
(Section 4.3)
. Any number of CONTINUATION frames can be sent, as long as the preceding frame
is on the same stream and is a HEADERS, PUSH_PROMISE, or CONTINUATION frame without the
END_HEADERS ﬂag set.

ﬁeld block fragments

CONTINUATION Frame {
  Length (24),
  Type (8) = 0x09,

  Unused Flags (5),
  END_HEADERS Flag (1),
  Unused Flags (2),

  Reserved (1),
  Stream Identifier (31),

  Field Block Fragment (..),
}

Figure 12: CONTINUATION Frame Format

The Length, Type, Unused Flag(s), Reserved, and Stream Identiﬁer ﬁelds are described in Section
4. The CONTINUATION frame payload contains a

ﬁeld block fragment (Section 4.3)

.

The CONTINUATION frame deﬁnes the following ﬂag:

END_HEADERS (0x04):
block (Section 4.3)
.

When set, the END_HEADERS ﬂag indicates that this frame ends a

ﬁeld

If the END_HEADERS ﬂag is not set, this frame
frame. A receiver
stream as a

 be followed by another CONTINUATION
 treat the receipt of any other type of frame or a frame on a diﬀerent
 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

MUST

MUST

The CONTINUATION frame changes the connection state as deﬁned in Section 4.3.

CONTINUATION frames
with a Stream Identiﬁer ﬁeld of 0x00, the recipient
(Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST

 be associated with a stream. If a CONTINUATION frame is received
 respond with a

connection error

MUST

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

A CONTINUATION frame
frame without the END_HEADERS ﬂag set. A recipient that observes violation of this rule
respond with a

 be preceded by a HEADERS, PUSH_PROMISE or CONTINUATION
MUST

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST

7.  Error Codes

Error codes are 32-bit ﬁelds that are used in RST_STREAM and GOAWAY frames to convey the
reasons for the stream or connection error.

Error codes share a common code space. Some error codes apply only to either streams or the
entire connection and have no deﬁned semantics in the other context.

The following error codes are deﬁned:

NO_ERROR (0x00):

The associated condition is not a result of an error. For example, a GOAWAY

might include this code to indicate graceful shutdown of a connection.

PROTOCOL_ERROR (0x01):

The endpoint detected an unspeciﬁc protocol error. This error is for

use when a more speciﬁc error code is not available.

INTERNAL_ERROR (0x02):

The endpoint encountered an unexpected internal error.

FLOW_CONTROL_ERROR (0x03):

The endpoint detected that its peer violated the ﬂow-control

protocol.

SETTINGS_TIMEOUT (0x04):

The endpoint sent a SETTINGS frame but did not receive a response

in a timely manner. See Section 6.5.3 ("Settings Synchronization").

STREAM_CLOSED (0x05):

The endpoint received a frame after a stream was half-closed.

FRAME_SIZE_ERROR (0x06):

The endpoint received a frame with an invalid size.

REFUSED_STREAM (0x07):

The endpoint refused the stream prior to performing any application

processing (see Section 8.7 for details).

CANCEL (0x08):
needed.

The endpoint uses this error code to indicate that the stream is no longer

COMPRESSION_ERROR (0x09):
context for the connection.

The endpoint is unable to maintain the ﬁeld section compression

CONNECT_ERROR (0x0a):

The connection established in response to a

CONNECT request

(Section 8.5)

 was reset or abnormally closed.

ENHANCE_YOUR_CALM (0x0b):

The endpoint detected that its peer is exhibiting a behavior that

might be generating excessive load.

INADEQUATE_SECURITY (0x0c):

The underlying transport has properties that do not meet

minimum security requirements (see Section 9.2).

HTTP_1_1_REQUIRED (0x0d):

The endpoint requires that HTTP/1.1 be used instead of HTTP/2.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

Unknown or unsupported error codes
treated by an implementation as being equivalent to INTERNAL_ERROR.

MUST NOT

 trigger any special behavior. These

MAY

 be

8.  Expressing HTTP Semantics in HTTP/2

HTTP/2 is an instantiation of the HTTP message abstraction (

Section 6 of [HTTP]

).

8.1.  HTTP Message Framing

A client sends an HTTP request on a new stream, using a previously unused
(Section 5.1.1)

. A server sends an HTTP response on the same stream as the request.

stream identiﬁer

An HTTP message (request or response) consists of:

1.

one HEADERS frame (followed by zero or more CONTINUATION frames) containing the
header section (see

Section 6.3 of [HTTP]

),

2.

zero or more DATA frames containing the message content (see

Section 6.4 of [HTTP]

), and

3.

optionally, one HEADERS frame (followed by zero or more CONTINUATION frames)
containing the trailer section, if present (see

Section 6.5 of [HTTP]

).

MAY

For a response only, a server
 send any number of interim responses before the HEADERS
frame containing a ﬁnal response. An interim response consists of a HEADERS frame (which
might be followed by zero or more CONTINUATION frames) containing the control data and
header section of an interim (1xx) HTTP response (see
Section 15 of [HTTP]
with the END_STREAM ﬂag set that carries an informational status code is
8.1.1)

). A HEADERS frame
malformed (Section

.

The last frame in the sequence bears an END_STREAM ﬂag, noting that a HEADERS frame with the
END_STREAM ﬂag set can be followed by CONTINUATION frames that carry any remaining
fragments of the ﬁeld block.

Other frames (from any stream)
MUST NOT
CONTINUATION frames that might follow.

 occur between the HEADERS frame and any

HTTP/2 uses DATA frames to carry message content. The chunked transfer encoding deﬁned in
Section 7.1 of [HTTP/1.1]

 cannot be used in HTTP/2; see Section 8.2.2.

Trailer ﬁelds are carried in a ﬁeld block that also terminates the stream. That is, trailer ﬁelds
comprise a sequence starting with a HEADERS frame, followed by zero or more CONTINUATION
frames, where the HEADERS frame bears an END_STREAM ﬂag. Trailers
pseudo-header ﬁelds (Section 8.3)
treat the request or response as

. An endpoint that receives pseudo-header ﬁelds in trailers

malformed (Section 8.1.1)

MUST NOT

 include

.

MUST

An endpoint that receives a HEADERS frame without the END_STREAM ﬂag set after receiving the
HEADERS frame that opens a request or after receiving a ﬁnal (non-informational) status code
MUST

 treat the corresponding request or response as

malformed (Section 8.1.1)

.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

An HTTP request/response exchange fully consumes a single stream. A request starts with the
HEADERS frame that puts the stream into the "open" state. The request ends with a frame with the
END_STREAM ﬂag set, which causes the stream to become "half-closed (local)" for the client and
"half-closed (remote)" for the server. A response stream starts with zero or more interim
responses in HEADERS frames, followed by a HEADERS frame containing a ﬁnal status code.

An HTTP response is complete after the server sends -- or the client receives -- a frame with the
END_STREAM ﬂag set (including any CONTINUATION frames needed to complete a ﬁeld block). A
server can send a complete response prior to the client sending an entire request if the response
does not depend on any portion of the request that has not been sent and received. When this is
true, a server
a RST_STREAM with an error code of NO_ERROR after sending a complete response (i.e., a frame
with the END_STREAM ﬂag set). Clients
RST_STREAM, though clients can always discard responses at their discretion for other reasons.

 request that the client abort transmission of a request without error by sending

 discard responses as a result of receiving such a

MUST NOT

MAY

8.1.1.  Malformed Messages

A malformed request or response is one that is an otherwise valid sequence of HTTP/2 frames but
is invalid due to the presence of extraneous frames, prohibited ﬁelds or pseudo-header ﬁelds, the
absence of mandatory pseudo-header ﬁelds, the inclusion of uppercase ﬁeld names, or invalid
ﬁeld names and/or values (in certain circumstances; see Section 8.2).

A request or response that includes message content can include a content-length header ﬁeld.
A request or response is also malformed if the value of a content-length header ﬁeld does not
equal the sum of the DATA frame payload lengths that form the content, unless the message is
deﬁned as having no content. For example, 204 or 304 responses contain no content, as does the
response to a HEAD request. A response that is deﬁned to have no content, as described in
6.4.1 of [HTTP] MAY
included in DATA frames.

 have a non-zero content-length header ﬁeld, even though no content is

Section

,

Intermediaries that process HTTP requests or responses (i.e., any intermediary not acting as a
tunnel)
MUST NOT
that are detected

 forward a malformed request or response. Malformed requests or responses
MUST

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

stream error (Section 5.4.2)

 be treated as a

For malformed requests, a server
stream. Clients

MUST NOT

 accept a malformed response.

MAY

 send an HTTP response prior to closing or resetting the

Endpoints that progressively process messages might have performed some processing before
identifying a request or response as malformed. For instance, it might be possible to generate an
informational or 404 status code without having received a complete request. Similarly,
intermediaries might forward incomplete messages before detecting errors. A server
generate a ﬁnal response before receiving an entire request when the response does not depend
on the remainder of the request being correct.

MAY

These requirements are intended to protect against several types of common attacks against
HTTP; they are deliberately strict because being permissive can expose implementations to these
vulnerabilities.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

8.2.  HTTP Fields

HTTP ﬁelds (
PUSH_PROMISE frames, compressed with

Section 5 of [HTTP]

HPACK [COMPRESSION]

.

) are conveyed by HTTP/2 in the HEADERS, CONTINUATION, and

Field names

MUST

 be converted to lowercase when constructing an HTTP/2 message.

8.2.1.  Field Validity

The deﬁnitions of ﬁeld names and values in HTTP prohibit some characters that HPACK might be
able to convey. HTTP/2 implementations
their deﬁnitions in Sections 5.1 and 5.5 of
prohibited characters as

 validate ﬁeld names and values according to
, respectively, and treat messages that contain

malformed (Section 8.1.1)

SHOULD
[HTTP]

.

Failure to validate ﬁelds can be exploited for request smuggling attacks. In particular,
unvalidated ﬁelds might enable attacks when messages are forwarded using
where characters such as carriage return (CR), line feed (LF), and COLON are used as delimiters.
Implementations

 perform the following minimal validation of ﬁeld names and values:

HTTP/1.1 [HTTP/1.1]

MUST

,

•

MUST NOT

A ﬁeld name
(all ranges inclusive). This speciﬁcally excludes all non-visible ASCII characters, ASCII SP
(0x20), and uppercase characters ('A' to 'Z', ASCII 0x41 to 0x5a).

 contain characters in the ranges 0x00-0x20, 0x41-0x5a, or 0x7f-0xﬀ

•

With the exception of
single colon, ﬁeld names

pseudo-header ﬁelds (Section 8.3)

, which have a name that starts with a

MUST NOT

 include a colon (ASCII COLON, 0x3a).

•

A ﬁeld value
carriage return (ASCII CR, 0x0d) at any position.

MUST NOT

 contain the zero value (ASCII NUL, 0x00), line feed (ASCII LF, 0x0a), or

•

A ﬁeld value
0x20 or 0x09).

MUST NOT

 start or end with an ASCII whitespace character (ASCII SP or HTAB,

Note: An implementation that validates ﬁelds according to the deﬁnitions in
[HTTP]
Sections 5.1 and 5.5 of
include uppercase characters.

 only needs an additional check that ﬁeld names do not

malformed (Section 8.1.1)

A request or response that contains a ﬁeld that violates any of these conditions
as
forwarding messages
prohibited above.

. In particular, an intermediary that does not process ﬁelds when
 forward ﬁelds that contain any of the values that are listed as

MUST NOT

MUST

 be treated

When a request message violates one of these requirements, an implementation
generate a 400 (Bad Request) status code (see
status code is deﬁned or the status code cannot be sent (e.g., because the error occurs in a trailer
ﬁeld).

), unless a more suitable

Section 15.5.1 of [HTTP]

SHOULD

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

Note: Field values that are not valid according to the deﬁnition of the corresponding
ﬁeld do not cause a request to be malformed; the requirements above only apply to
the generic syntax for ﬁelds as deﬁned in

Section 5 of [HTTP]

.

8.2.2.  Connection-Speciﬁc Header Fields

MUST NOT

Section 7.6.1 of [HTTP]

HTTP/2 does not use the Connection header ﬁeld (
) to indicate connection-
speciﬁc header ﬁelds; in this protocol, connection-speciﬁc metadata is conveyed by other means.
An endpoint
ﬁelds. This includes the Connection header ﬁeld and those listed as having connection-speciﬁc
semantics in
Encoding, and Upgrade). Any message containing connection-speciﬁc header ﬁelds
treated as

 (that is, Proxy-Connection, Keep-Alive, Transfer-
MUST

 generate an HTTP/2 message containing connection-speciﬁc header

malformed (Section 8.1.1)

Section 7.6.1 of [HTTP]

 be

.

The only exception to this is the TE header ﬁeld, which
it is, it

 contain any value other than "trailers".

MUST NOT

MAY

 be present in an HTTP/2 request; when

An intermediary transforming an HTTP/1.x message to HTTP/2
header ﬁelds as discussed in
HTTP/2 endpoints as

malformed (Section 8.1.1)

Section 7.6.1 of [HTTP]

.

MUST

 remove connection-speciﬁc

, or their messages will be treated by other

Note: HTTP/2 purposefully does not support upgrade to another protocol. The
handshake methods described in Section 3 are believed suﬃcient to negotiate the use
of alternative protocols.

8.2.3.  Compressing the Cookie Header Field

Cookie header ﬁeld [COOKIE]

 uses a semicolon (";") to delimit cookie-pairs (or "crumbs"). This

The
header ﬁeld contains multiple values, but does not use a COMMA (",") as a separator, thereby
preventing cookie-pairs from being sent on multiple ﬁeld lines (see
can signiﬁcantly reduce compression eﬃciency, as updates to individual cookie-pairs would
invalidate any ﬁeld lines that are stored in the HPACK table.

Section 5.2 of [HTTP]

). This

To allow for better compression eﬃciency, the Cookie header ﬁeld
header ﬁelds, each with one or more cookie-pairs. If there are multiple Cookie header ﬁelds after
decompression, these
delimiter of 0x3b, 0x20 (the ASCII string "; ") before being passed into a non-HTTP/2 context, such
as an HTTP/1.1 connection, or a generic HTTP server application.

 be concatenated into a single octet string using the two-octet

 be split into separate

MUST

MAY

Therefore, the following two lists of Cookie header ﬁelds are semantically equivalent.

cookie: a=b; c=d; e=f

cookie: a=b
cookie: c=d
cookie: e=f

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

8.3.  HTTP Control Data

HTTP/2 uses special pseudo-header ﬁelds beginning with a ':' character (ASCII 0x3a) to convey
message control data (see

Section 6.2 of [HTTP]

).

Pseudo-header ﬁelds are not HTTP header ﬁelds. Endpoints
ﬁelds other than those deﬁned in this document. Note that an extension could negotiate the use of
additional pseudo-header ﬁelds; see Section 5.5.

 generate pseudo-header

MUST NOT

Pseudo-header ﬁelds are only valid in the context in which they are deﬁned. Pseudo-header ﬁelds
deﬁned for requests
MUST NOT
Endpoints
ﬁelds as

 appear in requests. Pseudo-header ﬁelds
MUST

 treat a request or response that contains undeﬁned or invalid pseudo-header

 appear in responses; pseudo-header ﬁelds deﬁned for responses

 appear in a trailer section.

malformed (Section 8.1.1)

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

.

All pseudo-header ﬁelds
response that contains a pseudo-header ﬁeld that appears in a ﬁeld block after a regular ﬁeld line
MUST

 appear in a ﬁeld block before all regular ﬁeld lines. Any request or

malformed (Section 8.1.1)

 be treated as

MUST

.

The same pseudo-header ﬁeld name
block for an HTTP request or response that contains a repeated pseudo-header ﬁeld name
be treated as

 appear more than once in a ﬁeld block. A ﬁeld

malformed (Section 8.1.1)

MUST NOT

.

MUST

8.3.1.  Request Pseudo-Header Fields

The following pseudo-header ﬁelds are deﬁned for HTTP/2 requests:

•

The ":method" pseudo-header ﬁeld includes the HTTP method (

Section 9 of [HTTP]

).

•

The ":scheme" pseudo-header ﬁeld includes the scheme portion of the request target. The
) when generating a request
scheme is taken from the target URI (
directly, or from the scheme of a translated request (for example, see
Section 3.3 of [HTTP/
1.1]

CONNECT requests (Section 8.5)

). Scheme is omitted for

Section 3.1 of [RFC3986]

.

":scheme" is not restricted to "http" and "https" schemed URIs. A proxy or gateway can
translate requests for non-HTTP schemes, enabling the use of HTTP to interact with non-
HTTP services.

•

The ":authority" pseudo-header ﬁeld conveys the authority portion (
[RFC3986]
NOT

 use the Host header ﬁeld to determine the target URI if ":authority" is present.

). The recipient of an HTTP/2 request

Section 7.1 of [HTTP]

) of the target URI (

Section 3.2 of

MUST

Clients that generate HTTP/2 requests directly
ﬁeld to convey authority information, unless there is no authority information to convey (in
which case it

 use the ":authority" pseudo-header

 generate ":authority").

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST NOT

 generate a request with a Host header ﬁeld that diﬀers from the

Clients
":authority" pseudo-header ﬁeld. A server
 treat a request as malformed if it
contains a Host header ﬁeld that identiﬁes an entity that diﬀers from the entity in the
":authority" pseudo-header ﬁeld. The values of ﬁelds need to be normalized to compare

SHOULD

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

Section 6.2 of [RFC3986]

them (see
whereas other servers
[RFC3986]

MUST
) of the two ﬁelds.

). An origin server can apply any normalization method,

 perform scheme-based normalization (see

Section 6.2.3 of

An intermediary that forwards a request over HTTP/2
pseudo-header ﬁeld using the authority information from the control data of the original
request, unless the original request's target URI does not contain authority information (in
 generate ":authority"). Note that the Host header ﬁeld is not the
which case it
MUST NOT
sole source of this information; see
.

 construct an ":authority"

Section 7.2 of [HTTP]

MUST

An intermediary that needs to generate a Host header ﬁeld (which might be necessary to
 use the value from the ":authority" pseudo-header
construct an HTTP/1.1 request)
ﬁeld as the value of the Host ﬁeld, unless the intermediary also changes the request target.
This replaces any existing Host ﬁeld to avoid potential vulnerabilities in HTTP routing.

MUST

An intermediary that forwards a request over HTTP/2

MAY

 retain any Host header ﬁeld.

Note that request targets for CONNECT or asterisk-form OPTIONS requests never include
authority information; see Sections 7.1 and 7.2 of

[HTTP]

.

":authority"
"https" schemed URIs.

MUST NOT

 include the deprecated userinfo subcomponent for "http" or

•

The ":path" pseudo-header ﬁeld includes the path and query parts of the target URI (the
absolute-path production and, optionally, a '?' character followed by the query production;
see
the ":path" pseudo-header ﬁeld.

). A request in asterisk form (for OPTIONS) includes the value '*' for

Section 4.1 of [HTTP]

MUST NOT

This pseudo-header ﬁeld
URIs that do not contain a path component
rule are:
◦

 be empty for "http" or "https" URIs; "http" or "https"

MUST

 include a value of '/'. The exceptions to this

an OPTIONS request for an "http" or "https" URI that does not include a path component;
these
[HTTP]

 include a ":path" pseudo-header ﬁeld with a value of '*' (see

Section 7.1 of

MUST
).

◦ CONNECT requests (Section 8.5)

, where the ":path" pseudo-header ﬁeld is omitted.

All HTTP/2 requests
MUST
":path" pseudo-header ﬁelds, unless they are
that omits mandatory pseudo-header ﬁelds is

CONNECT requests (Section 8.5)
malformed (Section 8.1.1)

.

. An HTTP request

 include exactly one valid value for the ":method", ":scheme", and

Individual HTTP/2 requests do not carry an explicit indicator of protocol version. All HTTP/2
requests implicitly have a protocol version of "2.0" (see

Section 6.2 of [HTTP]

).

8.3.2.  Response Pseudo-Header Fields

For HTTP/2 responses, a single ":status" pseudo-header ﬁeld is deﬁned that carries the HTTP
status code ﬁeld (see
responses, including interim responses; otherwise, the response is

 be included in all
malformed (Section 8.1.1)

). This pseudo-header ﬁeld

Section 15 of [HTTP]

MUST

.

HTTP/2 responses implicitly have a protocol version of "2.0".

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

8.4.  Server Push

HTTP/2 allows a server to preemptively send (or "push") responses (along with corresponding
"promised" requests) to a client in association with a previous client-initiated request.

Server push was designed to allow a server to improve client-perceived performance by
predicting what requests will follow those that it receives, thereby removing a round trip for
them. For example, a request for HTML is often followed by requests for stylesheets and scripts
referenced by that page. When these requests are pushed, the client does not need to wait to
receive the references to them in the HTML and issue separate requests.

In practice, server push is diﬃcult to use eﬀectively, because it requires the server to correctly
anticipate the additional requests the client will make, taking into account factors such as
caching, content negotiation, and user behavior. Errors in prediction can lead to performance
degradation, due to the opportunity cost that the additional data on the wire represents. In
particular, pushing any signiﬁcant amount of data can cause contention issues with responses
that are more important.

A client can request that server push be disabled, though this is negotiated for each hop
independently. The SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH setting can be set to 0 to indicate that server push is
disabled.

MUST

 be safe (see

Section 9.2.1 of [HTTP]

). Promised requests cannot include any content or a trailer section. Clients that receive a

Promised requests
[HTTP]
promised request that is not cacheable, that is not known to be safe, or that indicates the
presence of request content
 of
type PROTOCOL_ERROR. Note that this could result in the promised stream being reset if the client
does not recognize a newly deﬁned method as being safe.

 reset the promised stream with a

stream error (Section 5.4.2)

) and cacheable (see

Section 9.2.3 of

MUST

Pushed responses that are cacheable (see
) can be stored by the client, if it
implements an HTTP cache. Pushed responses are considered successfully validated on the origin
server (e.g., if the "no-cache" cache response directive is present; see
)
while the stream identiﬁed by the promised stream identiﬁer is still open.

Section 5.2.2.4 of [CACHING]

Section 3 of [CACHING]

Pushed responses that are not cacheable
made available to the application separately.

MUST NOT

 be stored by any HTTP cache. They

MAY

 be

MUST

The server
authoritative (see Section 10.1). A client
authoritative as a

 include a value in the ":authority" pseudo-header ﬁeld for which the server is
 treat a PUSH_PROMISE for which the server is not
 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST
stream error (Section 5.4.2)

An intermediary can receive pushes from the server and choose not to forward them on to the
client. In other words, how to make use of the pushed information is up to that intermediary.
Equally, the intermediary might choose to make additional pushes to the client, without any
action taken by the server.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

A client cannot push. Thus, servers
connection error (Section 5.4.1)
SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH setting to a value other than 0 (see Section 6.5.2).

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR. A server cannot set the

 treat the receipt of a PUSH_PROMISE frame as a

MUST

8.4.1.  Push Requests

Server push is semantically equivalent to a server responding to a request; however, in this case,
that request is also sent by the server, as a PUSH_PROMISE frame.

The PUSH_PROMISE frame includes a ﬁeld block that contains control data and a complete set of
request header ﬁelds that the server attributes to the request. It is not possible to push a response
to a request that includes message content.

Promised requests are always associated with an explicit request from the client. The
PUSH_PROMISE frames sent by the server are sent on that explicit request's stream. The
PUSH_PROMISE frame also includes a promised stream identiﬁer, chosen from the stream
identiﬁers available to the server (see Section 5.1.1).

request header ﬁelds (Section 8.3.1)

The header ﬁelds in PUSH_PROMISE and any subsequent CONTINUATION frames
and complete set of
":method" pseudo-header ﬁeld that is safe and cacheable. If a client receives a PUSH_PROMISE
that does not include a complete and valid set of header ﬁelds or the ":method" pseudo-header
ﬁeld identiﬁes a method that is not safe, it
stream
error (Section 5.4.2)

MUST
 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

 be a valid
MUST
 include a method in the

 respond on the promised stream with a

. The server

MUST

SHOULD

The server
reference the promised responses. This avoids a race where clients issue requests prior to
receiving any PUSH_PROMISE frames.

 send PUSH_PROMISE (Section 6.6) frames prior to sending any frames that

For example, if the server receives a request for a document containing embedded links to
multiple image ﬁles and the server chooses to push those additional images to the client, sending
PUSH_PROMISE frames before the DATA frames that contain the image links ensures that the
client is able to see that a resource will be pushed before discovering embedded links. Similarly, if
the server pushes resources referenced by the ﬁeld block (for instance, in Link header ﬁelds),
sending a PUSH_PROMISE before sending the header ensures that clients do not request those
resources.

PUSH_PROMISE frames

MUST NOT

 be sent by the client.

 be in either the "open" or "half-closed (remote)" state with respect to the server.

PUSH_PROMISE frames can be sent by the server on any client-initiated stream, but the stream
MUST
PUSH_PROMISE frames are interspersed with the frames that comprise a response, though they
cannot be interspersed with HEADERS and CONTINUATION frames that comprise a single ﬁeld
block.

Sending a PUSH_PROMISE frame creates a new stream and puts the stream into the "reserved
(local)" state for the server and the "reserved (remote)" state for the client.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

8.4.2.  Push Responses

After sending the PUSH_PROMISE frame, the server can begin delivering the pushed response as a
response (Section 8.3.2)
 on a server-initiated stream that uses the promised stream identiﬁer. The
server uses this stream to transmit an HTTP response, using the same sequence of frames as that
deﬁned in Section 8.1. This stream becomes
 after the initial
HEADERS frame is sent.

"half-closed" to the client (Section 5.1)

Once a client receives a PUSH_PROMISE frame and chooses to accept the pushed response, the
client
has closed.

 issue any requests for the promised response until after the promised stream

SHOULD NOT

If the client determines, for any reason, that it does not wish to receive the pushed response from
the server or if the server takes too long to begin sending the promised response, the client can
send a RST_STREAM frame, using either the CANCEL or REFUSED_STREAM code and referencing
the pushed stream's identiﬁer.

A client can use the SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS setting to limit the number of
responses that can be concurrently pushed by a server. Advertising a
SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS value of zero prevents the server from opening the
streams necessary to push responses. However, this does not prevent the server from reserving
streams using PUSH_PROMISE frames, because reserved streams do not count toward the
concurrent stream limit. Clients that do not wish to receive pushed resources need to reset any
unwanted reserved streams or set SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH to 0.

Clients receiving a pushed response
Section 10.1) or the proxy that provided the pushed response is conﬁgured for the corresponding
request. For example, a server that oﬀers a certiﬁcate for only the example.com DNS-ID (see
[RFC6125]

) is not permitted to push a response for <https://www.example.org/doc>.

 validate that either the server is authoritative (see

MUST

The response for a PUSH_PROMISE stream begins with a HEADERS frame, which immediately
puts the stream into the "half-closed (remote)" state for the server and "half-closed (local)" state
for the client, and ends with a frame with the END_STREAM ﬂag set, which places the stream in
the "closed" state.

Note: The client never sends a frame with the END_STREAM ﬂag set for a server push.

8.5.  The CONNECT Method

The CONNECT method (
tunnel to a remote host. CONNECT is primarily used with HTTP proxies to establish a TLS session
with an origin server for the purposes of interacting with "https" resources.

) is used to convert an HTTP connection into a

Section 9.3.6 of [HTTP]

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

In HTTP/2, the CONNECT method establishes a tunnel over a single HTTP/2 stream to a remote
host, rather than converting the entire connection to a tunnel. A CONNECT header section is
constructed as deﬁned in Section 8.3.1 ("Request Pseudo-Header Fields"), with a few diﬀerences.
Speciﬁcally:

•

The ":method" pseudo-header ﬁeld is set to CONNECT.

•

The ":scheme" and ":path" pseudo-header ﬁelds

MUST

 be omitted.

•

The ":authority" pseudo-header ﬁeld contains the host and port to connect to (equivalent
Section 3.2.3 of [HTTP/
to the authority-form of the request-target of CONNECT requests; see
1.1]

).

A CONNECT request that does not conform to these restrictions is

malformed (Section 8.1.1)

.

A proxy that supports CONNECT establishes a
in the ":authority" pseudo-header ﬁeld. Once this connection is successfully established, the
proxy sends a HEADERS frame containing a 2xx-series status code to the client, as deﬁned in
Section 9.3.6 of [HTTP]

TCP connection [TCP]

 to the host and port identiﬁed

.

After the initial HEADERS frame sent by each peer, all subsequent DATA frames correspond to
data sent on the TCP connection. The frame payload of any DATA frames sent by the client is
transmitted by the proxy to the TCP server; data received from the TCP server is assembled into
DATA frames by the proxy. Frame types other than DATA or stream management frames
(RST_STREAM, WINDOW_UPDATE, and PRIORITY)
MUST

 be sent on a connected stream and

stream error (Section 5.4.2)

 be treated as a

 if received.

MUST NOT

The TCP connection can be closed by either peer. The END_STREAM ﬂag on a DATA frame is
treated as being equivalent to the TCP FIN bit. A client is expected to send a DATA frame with the
END_STREAM ﬂag set after receiving a frame with the END_STREAM ﬂag set. A proxy that
receives a DATA frame with the END_STREAM ﬂag set sends the attached data with the FIN bit set
on the last TCP segment. A proxy that receives a TCP segment with the FIN bit set sends a DATA
frame with the END_STREAM ﬂag set. Note that the ﬁnal TCP segment or DATA frame could be
empty.

A TCP connection error is signaled with RST_STREAM. A proxy treats any error in the TCP
connection, which includes receiving a TCP segment with the RST bit set, as a
(Section 5.4.2)
the RST bit set if it detects an error with the stream or the HTTP/2 connection.

 of type CONNECT_ERROR. Correspondingly, a proxy

stream error
 send a TCP segment with

MUST

8.6.  The Upgrade Header Field

HTTP/2 does not support the 101 (Switching Protocols) informational status code (
[HTTP]

).

Section 15.2.2 of

The semantics of 101 (Switching Protocols) aren't applicable to a multiplexed protocol. Similar
functionality might be enabled through the use of
, and other
protocols are able to use the same mechanisms that HTTP/2 uses to negotiate their use (see
Section 3).

extended CONNECT [RFC8441]

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

8.7.  Request Reliability

In general, an HTTP client is unable to retry a non-idempotent request when an error occurs
because there is no means to determine the nature of the error (see
possible that some server processing occurred prior to the error, which could result in undesirable
eﬀects if the request were reattempted.

Section 9.2.2 of [HTTP]

). It is

HTTP/2 provides two mechanisms for providing a guarantee to a client that a request has not
been processed:

•

The GOAWAY frame indicates the highest stream number that might have been processed.
Requests on streams with higher numbers are therefore guaranteed to be safe to retry.

•

The REFUSED_STREAM error code can be included in a RST_STREAM frame to indicate that
the stream is being closed prior to any processing having occurred. Any request that was sent
on the reset stream can be safely retried.

Requests that have not been processed have not failed; clients
even those with non-idempotent methods.

MAY

 automatically retry them,

MUST NOT

 indicate that a stream has not been processed unless it can guarantee that

A server
fact. If frames that are on a stream are passed to the application layer for any stream, then
REFUSED_STREAM
 include a
stream identiﬁer that is greater than or equal to the given stream identiﬁer.

 be used for that stream, and a GOAWAY frame

MUST NOT

MUST

In addition to these mechanisms, the PING frame provides a way for a client to easily test a
connection. Connections that remain idle can become broken, because some middleboxes (for
instance, network address translators or load balancers) silently discard connection bindings.
The PING frame allows a client to safely test whether a connection is still active without sending a
request.

8.8.  Examples

This section shows HTTP/1.1 requests and responses, with illustrations of equivalent HTTP/2
requests and responses.

8.8.1.  Simple Request

An HTTP GET request includes control data and a request header with no message content and is
therefore transmitted as a single HEADERS frame, followed by zero or more CONTINUATION
frames containing the serialized block of request header ﬁelds. The HEADERS frame in the
following has both the END_HEADERS and END_STREAM ﬂags set; no CONTINUATION frames are
sent.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

  GET /resource HTTP/1.1           HEADERS
  Host: example.org          ==>     + END_STREAM
  Accept: image/jpeg                 + END_HEADERS
                                       :method = GET
                                       :scheme = https
                                       :authority = example.org
                                       :path = /resource
                                       host = example.org
                                       accept = image/jpeg

8.8.2.  Simple Response

Similarly, a response that includes only control data and a response header is transmitted as a
HEADERS frame (again, followed by zero or more CONTINUATION frames) containing the
serialized block of response header ﬁelds.

  HTTP/1.1 304 Not Modified        HEADERS
  ETag: "xyzzy"              ==>     + END_STREAM
  Expires: Thu, 23 Jan ...           + END_HEADERS
                                       :status = 304
                                       etag = "xyzzy"
                                       expires = Thu, 23 Jan ...

8.8.3.  Complex Request

An HTTP POST request that includes control data and a request header with message content is
transmitted as one HEADERS frame, followed by zero or more CONTINUATION frames
containing the request header, followed by one or more DATA frames, with the last
CONTINUATION (or HEADERS) frame having the END_HEADERS ﬂag set and the ﬁnal DATA frame
having the END_STREAM ﬂag set:

  POST /resource HTTP/1.1          HEADERS
  Host: example.org          ==>     - END_STREAM
  Content-Type: image/jpeg           - END_HEADERS
  Content-Length: 123                  :method = POST
                                       :authority = example.org
                                       :path = /resource
  {binary data}                        :scheme = https

                                   CONTINUATION
                                     + END_HEADERS
                                       content-type = image/jpeg
                                       host = example.org
                                       content-length = 123

                                   DATA
                                     + END_STREAM
                                   {binary data}

Note that data contributing to any given ﬁeld line could be spread between ﬁeld block fragments.
The allocation of ﬁeld lines to frames in this example is illustrative only.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

8.8.4.  Response with Body

A response that includes control data and a response header with message content is transmitted
as a HEADERS frame, followed by zero or more CONTINUATION frames, followed by one or more
DATA frames, with the last DATA frame in the sequence having the END_STREAM ﬂag set:

  HTTP/1.1 200 OK                  HEADERS
  Content-Type: image/jpeg   ==>     - END_STREAM
  Content-Length: 123                + END_HEADERS
                                       :status = 200
  {binary data}                        content-type = image/jpeg
                                       content-length = 123

                                   DATA
                                     + END_STREAM
                                   {binary data}

8.8.5.  Informational Responses

An informational response using a 1xx status code other than 101 is transmitted as a HEADERS
frame, followed by zero or more CONTINUATION frames.

A trailer section is sent as a ﬁeld block after both the request or response ﬁeld block and all the
DATA frames have been sent. The HEADERS frame starting the ﬁeld block that comprises the
trailer section has the END_STREAM ﬂag set.

The following example includes both a 100 (Continue) status code, which is sent in response to a
request containing a "100-continue" token in the Expect header ﬁeld, and a trailer section:

  HTTP/1.1 100 Continue            HEADERS
  Extension-Field: bar       ==>     - END_STREAM
                                     + END_HEADERS
                                       :status = 100
                                       extension-field = bar

  HTTP/1.1 200 OK                  HEADERS
  Content-Type: image/jpeg   ==>     - END_STREAM
  Transfer-Encoding: chunked         + END_HEADERS
  Trailer: Foo                         :status = 200
                                       content-type = image/jpeg
  123                                  trailer = Foo
  {binary data}
  0                                DATA
  Foo: bar                           - END_STREAM
                                   {binary data}

                                   HEADERS
                                     + END_STREAM
                                     + END_HEADERS
                                       foo = bar

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

9.  HTTP/2 Connections

This section outlines attributes of HTTP that improve interoperability, reduce exposure to known
security vulnerabilities, or reduce the potential for implementation variation.

9.1.  Connection Management

HTTP/2 connections are persistent. For best performance, it is expected that clients will not close
connections until it is determined that no further communication with a server is necessary (for
example, when a user navigates away from a particular web page) or until the server closes the
connection.

SHOULD NOT

Clients
the host is derived from a URI, a selected

 open more than one HTTP/2 connection to a given host and port pair, where

alternative service [ALT-SVC]

, or a conﬁgured proxy.

A client can create additional connections as replacements, either to replace connections that
are near to exhausting the available
material for a TLS connection, or to replace connections that have encountered
5.4.1)

, to refresh the keying
errors (Section

stream identiﬁer space (Section 5.1.1)

.

MAY

A client
Server Name Indication [TLS-EXT]
SHOULD

 open multiple connections to the same IP address and TCP port using diﬀerent

 values or to provide diﬀerent TLS client certiﬁcates but

 avoid creating multiple connections with the same conﬁguration.

Servers are encouraged to maintain open connections for as long as possible but are permitted to
terminate idle connections if necessary. When either endpoint chooses to close the transport-
layer TCP connection, the terminating endpoint
so that both endpoints can reliably determine whether previously sent frames have been
processed and gracefully complete or terminate any necessary remaining tasks.

 ﬁrst send a GOAWAY (Section 6.8) frame

SHOULD

9.1.1.  Connection Reuse

CONNECT method (Section 8.5) MAY

Connections that are made to an origin server, either directly or through a tunnel created using
the
authority components. A connection can be reused as long as the origin server is
(Section 10.1)
same IP address.

authoritative
. For TCP connections without TLS, this depends on the host having resolved to the

 be reused for requests with multiple diﬀerent URI

,

For "https" resources, connection reuse additionally depends on having a certiﬁcate that is valid
for the host in the URI. The certiﬁcate presented by the server
client would perform when forming a new TLS connection for the host in the URI. A single
certiﬁcate can be used to establish authority for multiple origins.
how a client determines whether a server is authoritative for a URI.

 satisfy any checks that the

Section 4.3 of [HTTP]

 describes

MUST

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

In some deployments, reusing a connection for multiple origins can result in requests being
directed to the wrong origin server. For example, TLS termination might be performed by a
middlebox that uses the TLS
 extension to select an origin
Server Name Indication [TLS-EXT]
server. This means that it is possible for clients to send requests to servers that might not be the
intended target for the request, even though the server is otherwise authoritative.

A server that does not wish clients to reuse connections can indicate that it is not authoritative
for a request by sending a 421 (Misdirected Request) status code in response to the request (see
Section 15.5.20 of [HTTP]

).

A client that is conﬁgured to use a proxy over HTTP/2 directs requests to that proxy through a
single connection. That is, all requests sent via a proxy reuse the connection to the proxy.

9.2.  Use of TLS Features

Implementations of HTTP/2
general TLS usage guidance in
that are speciﬁc to HTTP/2.

MUST

 use

TLS version 1.2 [TLS12]

 or higher for HTTP/2 over TLS. The
 be followed, with some additional restrictions

[TLSBCP] SHOULD

The TLS implementation
TLS. If the server is identiﬁed by a
domain name [DNS-TERMS]
server_name TLS extension unless an alternative mechanism to indicate the target host is used.

Server Name Indication (SNI) [TLS-EXT]

 support the

 extension to

 send the

, clients

MUST

MUST

Requirements for deployments of HTTP/2 that negotiate
9.2.3. Deployments of TLS 1.2 are subject to the requirements in Sections 9.2.1 and 9.2.2.
Implementations are encouraged to provide defaults that comply, but it is recognized that
deployments are ultimately responsible for compliance.

TLS 1.3 [TLS13]

 are included in Section

9.2.1.  TLS 1.2 Features

This section describes restrictions on the TLS 1.2 feature set that can be used with HTTP/2. Due to
deployment limitations, it might not be possible to fail TLS negotiation when these restrictions
are not met. An endpoint
MAY
these TLS requirements with a

 immediately terminate an HTTP/2 connection that does not meet
connection error (Section 5.4.1)
 of type INADEQUATE_SECURITY.

A deployment of HTTP/2 over TLS 1.2
exposure of information that would not otherwise be revealed
unnecessary, since HTTP/2 provides compression features that are more aware of context and
therefore likely to be more appropriate for use for performance, security, or other reasons.

 disable compression. TLS compression can lead to the
. Generic compression is

[RFC3749]

MUST

A deployment of HTTP/2 over TLS 1.2
renegotiation as a
renegotiation can result in long-lived connections becoming unusable due to limits on the
number of messages the underlying cipher suite can encipher.

 disable renegotiation. An endpoint

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR. Note that disabling

 treat a TLS

MUST

MUST

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

MAY

An endpoint
oﬀered in the handshake, but any renegotiation
preface. A server
after establishing a connection.

SHOULD

 use renegotiation to provide conﬁdentiality protection for client credentials

 request a client certiﬁcate if it sees a renegotiation request immediately

MUST

 occur prior to sending the connection

This eﬀectively prevents the use of renegotiation in response to a request for a speciﬁc protected
resource. A future speciﬁcation might provide a way to support this use case. Alternatively, a
server might use an
error (Section 5.4)
a protocol that supports renegotiation.

 of type HTTP_1_1_REQUIRED to request that the client use

 support ephemeral key exchange sizes of at least 2048 bits for cipher

MUST

Implementations
suites that use ephemeral ﬁnite ﬁeld Diﬃe-Hellman (DHE) (
for cipher suites that use ephemeral elliptic curve Diﬃe-Hellman (ECDHE)
MUST
than the lower limits as a

MAY
connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 accept DHE sizes of up to 4096 bits. Endpoints

Section 8.1.2 of [TLS12]

) and 224 bits
. Clients

[RFC8422]

 treat negotiation of key sizes smaller

 of type INADEQUATE_SECURITY.

9.2.2.  TLS 1.2 Cipher Suites

A deployment of HTTP/2 over TLS 1.2
Appendix A.

SHOULD NOT

 use any of the prohibited cipher suites listed in

MAY

 choose to generate a

Endpoints
INADEQUATE_SECURITY if one of the prohibited cipher suites is negotiated. A deployment that
chooses to use a prohibited cipher suite risks triggering a connection error unless the set of
potential peers is known to accept that cipher suite.

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type

Implementations
that is not prohibited. Consequently, when clients oﬀer a cipher suite that is not prohibited, they
have to be prepared to use that cipher suite with HTTP/2.

 generate this error in reaction to the negotiation of a cipher suite

MUST NOT

The list of prohibited cipher suites includes the cipher suite that TLS 1.2 makes mandatory, which
means that TLS 1.2 deployments could have non-intersecting sets of permitted cipher suites. To
avoid this problem, which causes TLS handshake failures, deployments of HTTP/2 that use TLS 1.2
 with the P-256 elliptic
MUST
curve

 support TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
[RFC8422]

[TLS-ECDHE]

.

Note that clients might advertise support of cipher suites that are prohibited in order to allow for
connection to servers that do not support HTTP/2. This allows servers to select HTTP/1.1 with a
cipher suite that is prohibited in HTTP/2. However, this can result in HTTP/2 being negotiated with
a prohibited cipher suite if the application protocol and cipher suite are independently selected.

9.2.3.  TLS 1.3 Features

TLS 1.3 includes a number of features not available in earlier versions. This section discusses the
use of these features.

HTTP/2 servers
clients
(Section 5.4.1)

MUST

 of type PROTOCOL_ERROR.

MUST NOT

 send post-handshake TLS 1.3 CertiﬁcateRequest messages. HTTP/2

 treat a TLS post-handshake CertiﬁcateRequest message as a

connection error

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 60

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

The prohibition on post-handshake authentication applies even if the client oﬀered the
"post_handshake_auth" TLS extension. Post-handshake authentication support might be
advertised independently of
protocols, but inclusion of the extension cannot imply support within HTTP/2.

ALPN [TLS-ALPN]

. Clients might oﬀer the capability for use in other

[TLS13]
 deﬁnes other post-handshake messages, NewSessionTicket and KeyUpdate, which can be
used as they have no direct interaction with HTTP/2. Unless the use of a new type of TLS message
depends on an interaction with the application-layer protocol, that TLS message can be sent after
the handshake completes.

TLS early data
Clients send requests in early data assuming initial values for all server settings.

 be used to send requests, provided that the guidance in

MAY

[RFC8470]

 is observed.

10.  Security Considerations

The use of TLS is necessary to provide many of the security properties of this protocol. Many of
the claims in this section do not hold unless TLS is used as described in Section 9.2.

10.1.  Server Authority

HTTP/2 relies on the HTTP deﬁnition of authority for determining whether a server is
authoritative in providing a given response (see
resolution for the "http" URI scheme and the authenticated server identity for the "https"
scheme.

Section 4.3 of [HTTP]

). This relies on local name

10.2.  Cross-Protocol Attacks

In a cross-protocol attack, an attacker causes a client to initiate a transaction in one protocol
toward a server that understands a diﬀerent protocol. An attacker might be able to cause the
transaction to appear as a valid transaction in the second protocol. In combination with the
capabilities of the web context, this can be used to interact with poorly protected servers in
private networks.

Completing a TLS handshake with an ALPN identiﬁer for HTTP/2 can be considered suﬃcient
protection against cross-protocol attacks. ALPN provides a positive indication that a server is
willing to proceed with HTTP/2, which prevents attacks on other TLS-based protocols.

The encryption in TLS makes it diﬃcult for attackers to control the data that could be used in a
cross-protocol attack on a cleartext protocol.

The cleartext version of HTTP/2 has minimal protection against cross-protocol attacks. The
connection preface (Section 3.4)
but no special protection is oﬀered for other protocols.

 contains a string that is designed to confuse HTTP/1.1 servers,

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 61

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

10.3.  Intermediary Encapsulation Attacks

HPACK permits encoding of ﬁeld names and values that might be treated as delimiters in other
HTTP versions. An intermediary that translates an HTTP/2 request or response
ﬁelds according to the rules in Section 8.2 before translating a message to another HTTP version.
Translating a ﬁeld that includes invalid delimiters could be used to cause recipients to incorrectly
interpret a message, which could be exploited by an attacker.

 validate

MUST

Section 8.2 does not include speciﬁc rules for validation of pseudo-header ﬁelds. If the values of
these ﬁelds are used, additional validation is necessary. This is particularly important where
":scheme", ":authority", and ":path" are combined to form a single URI string
[RFC3986]
.
Similar problems might occur when that URI or just ":path" is combined with ":method" to
construct a request line (as in
the input values are fully validated.

). Simple concatenation is not secure unless

Section 3 of [HTTP/1.1]

An intermediary can reject ﬁelds that contain invalid ﬁeld names or values for other reasons -- in
particular, those ﬁelds that do not conform to the HTTP ABNF grammar from
.
Section 5 of [HTTP]
Intermediaries that do not perform any validation of ﬁelds other than the minimum required by
Section 8.2 could forward messages that contain invalid ﬁeld names or values.

)

An intermediary that receives any ﬁelds that require removal before forwarding (see
 remove or replace those header ﬁelds when forwarding messages. Additionally,
of [HTTP] MUST
intermediaries should take care when forwarding messages containing Content-Length ﬁelds
to ensure that the message is
translated into HTTP/1.1 at any point, the framing will be correct.

. This ensures that if the message is

well-formed (Section 8.1.1)

Section 7.6.1

10.4.  Cacheability of Pushed Responses

Pushed responses do not have an explicit request from the client; the request is provided by the
server in the PUSH_PROMISE frame.

Caching responses that are pushed is possible based on the guidance provided by the origin server
in the Cache-Control header ﬁeld. However, this can cause issues if a single server hosts more
than one tenant. For example, a server might oﬀer multiple users each a small portion of its URI
space.

Where multiple tenants share space on the same server, that server
not able to push representations of resources that they do not have authority over. Failure to
enforce this would allow a tenant to provide a representation that would be served out of cache,
overriding the actual representation that the authoritative tenant provides.

 ensure that tenants are

MUST

Pushed responses for which an origin server is not authoritative (see Section 10.1)
used or cached.

MUST NOT

 be

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 62

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

10.5.  Denial-of-Service Considerations

An HTTP/2 connection can demand a greater commitment of resources to operate than an HTTP/
1.1 connection. Both ﬁeld section compression and ﬂow control depend on a commitment of a
greater amount of state. Settings for these features ensure that memory commitments for these
features are strictly bounded.

The number of PUSH_PROMISE frames is not constrained in the same fashion. A client that
accepts server push
state. An excessive number of server push streams can be treated as a
of type ENHANCE_YOUR_CALM.

 limit the number of streams it allows to be in the "reserved (remote)"
stream error (Section 5.4.2)

SHOULD

A number of HTTP/2 implementations were found to be vulnerable to denial of service
[NFLX-2019-002]
of-service attacks:

. Below is a list of known ways that implementations might be subject to denial-

•

Ineﬃcient tracking of outstanding outbound frames can lead to overload if an adversary
can cause large numbers of frames to be enqueued for sending. A peer could use one of
several techniques to cause large numbers of frames to be generated:
◦

Providing tiny increments to ﬂow control in WINDOW_UPDATE frames can cause a sender
to generate a large number of DATA frames.

◦

An endpoint is required to respond to a PING frame.

◦

Each SETTINGS frame requires acknowledgment.

◦

An invalid request (or server push) can cause a peer to send RST_STREAM frames in
response.

•

An attacker can provide large amounts of ﬂow-control credit at the HTTP/2 layer but
withhold credit at the TCP layer, preventing frames from being sent. An endpoint that
constructs and remembers frames for sending without considering TCP limits might be
subject to resource exhaustion.

•

Large numbers of small or empty frames can be abused to cause a peer to expend time
processing frame headers. Caution is required here as some uses of small frames are entirely
legitimate, such as the sending of an empty DATA or CONTINUATION frame at the end of a
stream.

•

The SETTINGS frame might also be abused to cause a peer to expend additional processing
time. This might be done by pointlessly changing settings, sending multiple undeﬁned
settings, or changing the same setting multiple times in the same frame.

•

Handling reprioritization with PRIORITY frames can require signiﬁcant processing time and
can lead to overload if many PRIORITY frames are sent.

•

Field section compression also provides opportunities for an attacker to waste processing
resources; see

 for more details on potential abuses.

Section 7 of [COMPRESSION]

•

Limits in SETTINGS cannot be reduced instantaneously, which leaves an endpoint exposed to
behavior from a peer that could exceed the new limits. In particular, immediately after

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 63

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

establishing a connection, limits set by a server are not known to clients and could be
exceeded without being an obvious protocol violation.

Most of the features that might be exploited for denial of service -- such as SETTINGS changes,
small frames, ﬁeld section compression -- have legitimate uses. These features become a burden
only when they are used unnecessarily or to excess.

An endpoint that doesn't monitor use of these features exposes itself to a risk of denial of service.
 track the use of these features and set limits on their use. An endpoint
Implementations
MAY
ENHANCE_YOUR_CALM.

SHOULD
 treat activity that is suspicious as a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type

10.5.1.  Limits on Field Block Size

ﬁeld block (Section 4.3)

A large
 can cause an implementation to commit a large amount of state.
Field lines that are critical for routing can appear toward the end of a ﬁeld block, which prevents
streaming of ﬁelds to their ultimate destination. This ordering and other reasons, such as
ensuring cache correctness, mean that an endpoint might need to buﬀer the entire ﬁeld block.
Since there is no hard limit to the size of a ﬁeld block, some endpoints could be forced to commit
a large amount of available memory for ﬁeld blocks.

An endpoint can use the SETTINGS_MAX_HEADER_LIST_SIZE to advise peers of limits that might
apply on the size of uncompressed ﬁeld blocks. This setting is only advisory, so endpoints
choose to send ﬁeld blocks that exceed this limit and risk the request or response being treated as
malformed. This setting is speciﬁc to a connection, so any request or response could encounter a
hop with a lower, unknown limit. An intermediary can attempt to avoid this problem by passing
on values presented by diﬀerent peers, but they are not obliged to do so.

MAY

A server that receives a larger ﬁeld block than it is willing to handle can send an HTTP 431
(Request Header Fields Too Large) status code
cannot process. The ﬁeld block
the connection is closed.

 be processed to ensure a consistent connection state, unless

. A client can discard responses that it

[RFC6585]

MUST

10.5.2.  CONNECT Issues

The CONNECT method can be used to create disproportionate load on a proxy, since stream
creation is relatively inexpensive when compared to the creation and maintenance of a TCP
connection. A proxy might also maintain some resources for a TCP connection beyond the
closing of the stream that carries the CONNECT request, since the outgoing TCP connection
remains in the TIME_WAIT state. Therefore, a proxy cannot rely on
SETTINGS_MAX_CONCURRENT_STREAMS alone to limit the resources consumed by CONNECT
requests.

10.6.  Use of Compression

Compression can allow an attacker to recover secret data when it is compressed in the same
context as data under attacker control. HTTP/2 enables compression of ﬁeld lines (Section 4.3);
the following concerns also apply to the use of HTTP compressed content-codings (
[HTTP]

).

Section 8.4.1 of

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 64

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

There are demonstrable attacks on compression that exploit the characteristics of the Web (e.g.,
[BREACH]
). The attacker induces multiple requests containing varying plaintext, observing the
length of the resulting ciphertext in each, which reveals a shorter length when a guess about the
secret is correct.

Implementations communicating on a secure channel
both conﬁdential and attacker-controlled data unless separate compression dictionaries are
used for each source of data. Compression
reliably determined. Generic stream compression, such as that provided by TLS,
used with HTTP/2 (see Section 9.2).

 be used if the source of data cannot be

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

 compress content that includes

 be

Further considerations regarding the compression of header ﬁelds are described in
[COMPRESSION]

.

10.7.  Use of Padding

Padding within HTTP/2 is not intended as a replacement for general purpose padding, such as
that provided by
application can depend on having speciﬁc knowledge of the data that is being padded.

. Redundant padding could even be counterproductive. Correct

TLS [TLS13]

To mitigate attacks that rely on compression, disabling or limiting compression might be
preferable to padding as a countermeasure.

Padding can be used to obscure the exact size of frame content and is provided to mitigate
speciﬁc attacks within HTTP -- for example, attacks where compressed content includes both
attacker-controlled plaintext and secret data (e.g.,

[BREACH]

).

Use of padding can result in less protection than might seem immediately obvious. At best,
padding only makes it more diﬃcult for an attacker to infer length information by increasing the
number of frames an attacker has to observe. Incorrectly implemented padding schemes can be
easily defeated. In particular, randomized padding with a predictable distribution provides very
little protection; similarly, padding frame payloads to a ﬁxed size exposes information as frame
payload sizes cross the ﬁxed-sized boundary, which could be possible if an attacker can control
plaintext.

SHOULD

Intermediaries
PUSH_PROMISE frames. A valid reason for an intermediary to change the amount of padding of
frames is to improve the protections that padding provides.

 retain padding for DATA frames but

 drop padding for HEADERS and

MAY

10.8.  Privacy Considerations

Several characteristics of HTTP/2 provide an observer an opportunity to correlate actions of a
single client or server over time. These include the values of settings, the manner in which ﬂow-
control windows are managed, the way priorities are allocated to streams, the timing of reactions
to stimulus, and the handling of any features that are controlled by settings.

As far as these create observable diﬀerences in behavior, they could be used as a basis for
ﬁngerprinting a speciﬁc client, as deﬁned in

Section 3.2 of [PRIVACY]

.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 65

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

HTTP/2's preference for using a single TCP connection allows correlation of a user's activity on a
site. Reusing connections for diﬀerent origins allows tracking across those origins.

Because the PING and SETTINGS frames solicit immediate responses, they can be used by an
endpoint to measure latency to their peer. This might have privacy implications in certain
scenarios.

10.9.  Remote Timing Attacks

Remote timing attacks extract secrets from servers by observing variations in the time that
servers take when processing requests that use secrets. HTTP/2 enables concurrent request
creation and processing, which can give attackers better control over when request processing
commences. Multiple HTTP/2 requests can be included in the same IP packet or TLS record. HTTP/
2 can therefore make remote timing attacks more eﬃcient by eliminating variability in request
delivery, leaving only request order and the delivery of responses as sources of timing variability.

Ensuring that processing time is not dependent on the value of a secret is the best defense against
any form of timing attack.

11.  IANA Considerations

This revision of HTTP/2 marks the HTTP2-Settings header ﬁeld and the h2c upgrade token, both
deﬁned in

, as obsolete.

[RFC7540]

Section 11 of [RFC7540]
method. RFC 7540 also established a registry for frame types, settings, and error codes. These
registrations and registries apply to HTTP/2, but are not redeﬁned in this document.

 registered the h2 and h2c ALPN identiﬁers along with the PRI HTTP

IANA has updated references to RFC 7540 in the following registries to refer to this document: "TLS
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) Protocol IDs", "HTTP/2 Frame Type", "HTTP/2
Settings", "HTTP/2 Error Code", and "HTTP Method Registry". The registration of the PRI method
has been updated to refer to Section 3.4; all other section numbers have not changed.

IANA has changed the policy on those portions of the "HTTP/2 Frame Type" and "HTTP/2 Settings"
registries that were reserved for Experimental Use in RFC 7540. These portions of the registries
shall operate on the same policy as the remainder of each registry.

11.1.  HTTP2-Settings Header Field Registration

 in
This section marks the HTTP2-Settings header ﬁeld registered by
the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name Registry" as obsolete. This capability has
been removed: see Section 3.1. The registration is updated to include the details as required by
Section 18.4 of [HTTP]

Section 11.5 of [RFC7540]

:

Field Name:

HTTP2-Settings

Status:

obsoleted

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 66

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

Reference:

Section 3.2.1 of [RFC7540]

Comments:

Obsolete; see Section 11.1 of this document.

11.2.  The h2c Upgrade Token

This section records the h2c upgrade token registered by
"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Upgrade Token Registry" as obsolete. This capability has
been removed: see Section 3.1. The registration is updated as follows:

Section 11.8 of [RFC7540]

 in the

Value:

h2c

Description:

(OBSOLETE) Hypertext Transfer Protocol version 2 (HTTP/2)

Expected Version Tokens:

None

Reference:

Section 3.1 of this document

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[CACHING]

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
,
RFC 9111 DOI 10.17487/RFC9111
,
rfc9111>
.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Caching" STD 98
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

[COMPRESSION]

Peon, R.

 and

,
H. Ruellan "HPACK: Header Compression for HTTP/2" RFC 7541

,

DOI 10.17487/RFC7541

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7541>

,
, May 2015,

[COOKIE]

[HTTP]

[QUIC]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

Barth, A. "HTTP State Management Mechanism" RFC 6265 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6265

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6265>

,
, April 2011,

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
.
rfc9110>

,

,

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

 and

Iyengar, J., Ed.
,
,
Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
.
editor.org/info/rfc9000>

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and Secure
, May 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
,
,
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):
<https://

, January 2005,

,

,

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 67

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

[RFC8174]

[RFC8422]

[RFC8470]

[TCP]

[TLS-ALPN]

[TLS-ECDHE]

[TLS-EXT]

[TLS12]

[TLS13]

[TLSBCP]

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
,
rfc8174>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

, and

M. Pegourie-Gonnard "Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC)

Nir, Y. Josefsson, S.
Cipher Suites for Transport Layer Security (TLS) Versions 1.2 and Earlier" RFC
8422 DOI 10.17487/RFC8422
,
.
rfc8422>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2018,

,

,
Thomson, M. Nottingham, M.
,
8470 DOI 10.17487/RFC8470
.
rfc8470>

, and

W. Tarreau "Using Early Data in HTTP" RFC

,

,

, September 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
,
Postel, J. "Transmission Control Protocol" STD 7 RFC 793 DOI 10.17487/RFC0793
September 1981,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc793>

,

,

,

Friedl, S. Popov, A. Langley, A.
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension" RFC 7301 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7301

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7301>

E. Stephan "Transport Layer Security (TLS)

, July 2014,

, and

,

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "TLS Elliptic Curve Cipher Suites with SHA-256/384 and AES Galois
,
Counter Mode (GCM)" RFC 5289 DOI 10.17487/RFC5289
<https://
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5289>

, August 2008,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
,
,
Deﬁnitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
.
editor.org/info/rfc6066>

, January 2011,

<https://www.rfc-

 and
E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
Dierks, T.
,
,
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
.
info/rfc5246>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, August 2008,

,

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

, and

P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of

,
Sheﬀer, Y. Holz, R.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
.
info/rfc7525>

, May 2015,

,

,

,

12.2.  Informative References

[ALT-SVC]

[BREACH]

Nottingham, M. McManus, P.
7838 DOI 10.17487/RFC7838

,

,

, and

J. Reschke "HTTP Alternative Services" RFC

,

,

, April 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7838>
.

Gluck, Y. Harris, N.
,
2013,
%20gone%20in%2030%20seconds.pdf>
.

, and

,

<https://breachattack.com/resources/BREACH%20-%20SSL,

A. Prado "BREACH: Reviving the CRIME Attack"

, 12 July

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 68

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

[DNS-TERMS]

Hoﬀman, P. Sullivan, A.
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8499

, and

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC 8499
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8499>
.

,

,

,

, January 2019,

[HTTP-PRIORITY]

Oku, K.

 and

L. Pardue "Extensible Prioritization Scheme for HTTP" RFC 9218
,

,

,

[HTTP/1.1]

[NFLX-2019-002]

[PRIVACY]

[RFC1122]

[RFC3749]

[RFC6125]

[RFC6585]

[RFC7323]

[RFC7540]

[RFC8441]

[RFC8740]

[TALKING]

DOI 10.17487/RFC9218

, June 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9218>
.

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
9112 DOI 10.17487/RFC9112

, June 2022,

,

,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP/1.1" STD 99 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9112>
.

,

,

,

, and

Netﬂix "HTTP/2 Denial of Service Advisory"

,

, 13 August 2019,

<https://

github.com/Netﬂix/security-bulletins/blob/master/advisories/third-party/
2019-002.md>
.

,

Cooper, A. Tschofenig, H. Aboba, B. Peterson, J. Morris, J. Hansen, M.
,
Smith "Privacy Considerations for Internet Protocols" RFC 6973 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6973>
RFC6973
.

, July 2013,

, and

R.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Braden, R., Ed. "Requirements for Internet Hosts - Communication Layers" STD
3 RFC 1122 DOI 10.17487/RFC1122
rfc1122>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 1989,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Transport Layer Security Protocol Compression Methods" RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3749>
3749 DOI 10.17487/RFC3749
.

, May 2004,

,

,

,

 and

J. Hodges "Representation and Veriﬁcation of Domain-Based

Saint-Andre, P.
Application Service Identity within Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using X.
509 (PKIX) Certiﬁcates in the Context of Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
,
6125 DOI 10.17487/RFC6125
.
rfc6125>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

Nottingham, M.
10.17487/RFC6585

 and

R. Fielding "Additional HTTP Status Codes" RFC 6585 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6585>

, April 2012,

,

,

,

,

Borman, D. Braden, B. Jacobson, V.
,
for High Performance" RFC 7323 DOI 10.17487/RFC7323
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7323>

, and

,
,

R. Scheﬀenegger, Ed. "TCP Extensions

,

, September 2014,

<https://

,
,
, and
Belshe, M. Peon, R.
,
,
(HTTP/2)" RFC 7540 DOI 10.17487/RFC7540
.
editor.org/info/rfc7540>

M. Thomson, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

McManus, P. "Bootstrapping WebSockets with HTTP/2" RFC 8441 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8441

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8441>

, September 2018,

,

,

,

,
Benjamin, D. "Using TLS 1.3 with HTTP/2" RFC 8740 DOI 10.17487/RFC8740
February 2020,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8740>

,

,

,

,

Huang, L. Chen, E. Barth, A. Rescorla, E.
Fun and Proﬁt"
.
barth-rescorla-jackson.pdf>

,
, 2011,

,

<https://www.adambarth.com/papers/2011/huang-chen-

, and

C. Jackson "Talking to Yourself for

,

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 69

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

Appendix A.  Prohibited TLS 1.2 Cipher Suites

An HTTP/2 implementation
TLS 1.2 as a

connection error (Section 5.4.1)

 of type INADEQUATE_SECURITY:

MAY

 treat the negotiation of any of the following cipher suites with

•

TLS_NULL_WITH_NULL_NULL

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_NULL_MD5

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_NULL_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_EXPORT_WITH_RC4_40_MD5

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_RC4_128_MD5

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_RC4_128_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_EXPORT_WITH_RC2_CBC_40_MD5

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_IDEA_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_EXPORT_WITH_DES40_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_DES_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_DSS_EXPORT_WITH_DES40_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_DES_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_RSA_EXPORT_WITH_DES40_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_DES_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_EXPORT_WITH_DES40_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_DES_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_EXPORT_WITH_DES40_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_DES_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_anon_EXPORT_WITH_RC4_40_MD5

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_RC4_128_MD5

•

TLS_DH_anon_EXPORT_WITH_DES40_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_DES_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_KRB5_WITH_DES_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_KRB5_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_KRB5_WITH_RC4_128_SHA

•

TLS_KRB5_WITH_IDEA_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_KRB5_WITH_DES_CBC_MD5

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 70

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

•

TLS_KRB5_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_MD5

•

TLS_KRB5_WITH_RC4_128_MD5

•

TLS_KRB5_WITH_IDEA_CBC_MD5

•

TLS_KRB5_EXPORT_WITH_DES_CBC_40_SHA

•

TLS_KRB5_EXPORT_WITH_RC2_CBC_40_SHA

•

TLS_KRB5_EXPORT_WITH_RC4_40_SHA

•

TLS_KRB5_EXPORT_WITH_DES_CBC_40_MD5

•

TLS_KRB5_EXPORT_WITH_RC2_CBC_40_MD5

•

TLS_KRB5_EXPORT_WITH_RC4_40_MD5

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_NULL_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_NULL_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_NULL_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_NULL_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 71

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_RC4_128_SHA

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_RC4_128_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_RC4_128_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_SEED_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_SEED_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_SEED_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_SEED_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_SEED_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_SEED_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 72

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_NULL_SHA256

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_NULL_SHA384

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_NULL_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_NULL_SHA384

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_NULL_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_NULL_SHA384

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_EMPTY_RENEGOTIATION_INFO_SCSV

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_NULL_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_RC4_128_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_NULL_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_RC4_128_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 73

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_NULL_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_RC4_128_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_NULL_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_RC4_128_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_anon_WITH_NULL_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_anon_WITH_RC4_128_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_anon_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_anon_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDH_anon_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_SRP_SHA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_SRP_SHA_RSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_SRP_SHA_DSS_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_SRP_SHA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_SRP_SHA_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_SRP_SHA_DSS_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_SRP_SHA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_SRP_SHA_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_SRP_SHA_DSS_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_RC4_128_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 74

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_NULL_SHA

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_NULL_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_NULL_SHA384

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_DSS_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_ARIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_ARIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_ARIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_ARIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_ARIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_ARIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_ARIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_ARIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_ARIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_ARIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_ARIA_128_GCM_SHA256

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 75

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_ARIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_ARIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_ARIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_ARIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_ARIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_ARIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_ARIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_DSS_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_DH_anon_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDH_ECDSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDH_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_GCM_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_GCM_SHA384

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 76

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_DHE_PSK_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_RSA_PSK_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA256

•

TLS_ECDHE_PSK_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA384

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CCM

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CCM

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CCM_8

•

TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CCM_8

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CCM

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_256_CCM

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CCM_8

•

TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_256_CCM_8

 was developed. This list includes those cipher suites that do not oﬀer an

Note: This list was assembled from the set of registered TLS cipher suites when
[RFC7540]
ephemeral key exchange and those that are based on the TLS null, stream, or block
cipher type (as deﬁned in
properties could be deﬁned; these would not be explicitly prohibited.

). Additional cipher suites with these

Section 6.2.3 of [TLS12]

For more details, see Section 9.2.2.

Appendix B.  Changes from RFC 7540

This revision includes the following substantive changes:

•

Use of TLS 1.3 was deﬁned based on

[RFC8740]

, which this document obsoletes.

•

The priority scheme deﬁned in RFC 7540 is deprecated. Deﬁnitions for the format of the
PRIORITY frame and the priority ﬁelds in the HEADERS frame have been retained, plus the
rules governing when PRIORITY frames can be sent and received, but the semantics of these
ﬁelds are only described in RFC 7540. The priority signaling scheme from RFC 7540 was not
successful. Using the simpler signaling in

 is recommended.

[HTTP-PRIORITY]

•

The HTTP/1.1 Upgrade mechanism is deprecated and no longer speciﬁed in this document. It
was never widely deployed, with plaintext HTTP/2 users choosing to use the prior-knowledge
implementation instead.

•

Validation for ﬁeld names and values has been narrowed. The validation that is mandatory
for intermediaries is precisely deﬁned, and error reporting for requests has been amended to
encourage sending 400-series status codes.

•

The ranges of codepoints for settings and frame types that were reserved for Experimental
Use are now available for general use.

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 77

RFC 9113

HTTP/2

June 2022

•

Connection-speciﬁc header ﬁelds -- which are prohibited -- are more precisely and
comprehensively identiﬁed.

•

Host and ":authority" are no longer permitted to disagree.

•

Rules for sending Dynamic Table Size Update instructions after changes in settings have been
clariﬁed in Section 4.3.1.

Editorial changes are also included. In particular, changes to terminology and document
structure are in response to updates to
include some concepts that were ﬁrst deﬁned in RFC 7540, such as the 421 status code or
connection coalescing.

core HTTP semantics [HTTP]

. Those documents now

Acknowledgments

Credit for non-trivial input to this document is owed to a large number of people who have
contributed to the HTTP Working Group over the years.
of people that deserve acknowledgment for their contributions.

[RFC7540]

 contains a more extensive list

Contributors

Mike Belshe

 and

Roberto Peon

 authored the text that this document is based on.

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Martin Thomson (
Mozilla
Australia
Email:

 mt@lowentropy.net

editor
)

Cory Benﬁeld (
Apple Inc.
Email:

 cbenﬁeld@apple.com

Thomson & Benﬁeld

Standards Track

Page 78

