Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9745
Standards Track
March 2025
2070-1721
S. Dalal

E. Wilde

RFC 9745
The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

Abstract

The Deprecation HTTP response header field is used to signal to consumers of a resource
(identified by a URI) that the resource will be or has been deprecated. Additionally, the
deprecation link relation can be used to link to a resource that provides further information
about planned or existing deprecation. It may also provide ways in which client application
developers can best manage deprecation.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9745
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Dalal & Wilde

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9745

The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

March 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Notational Conventions

2.  The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

2.1.  Syntax

2.2.  Scope

3.  The Deprecation Link Relation Type

3.1.  Documentation

4.  Sunset

5.  Resource Behavior

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

6.2.  The Deprecation Link Relation Type

7.  Security Considerations

8.  Normative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

3

4

4

5

6

6

6

6

6

7

7

7

Section 3.1 of [HTTP]
Deprecation of an HTTP resource (
lifecycle of a resource. It encourages client applications to migrate away from the resource,
discourages applications from forming new dependencies on the resource, and informs
applications about the risk of continued dependence upon the resource.

) communicates information about the

The act of deprecation does not change any behavior of the resource. It informs client
applications of the fact that a resource will be or has been deprecated. The Deprecation HTTP
response header field can be used to convey this information at runtime and indicate when the
deprecation will be in effect.

Dalal & Wilde

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9745

The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

March 2025

In addition to the Deprecation header field, the resource provider can use other header fields
such as the Link header field
 to convey additional information related to deprecation.
This can be information such as where to find documentation related to the deprecation, what
can be used as a replacement, and when a deprecated resource becomes non-operational.

[LINK]

1.1.  Notational Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses "Structured Field Values for HTTP"
of date values.

[RFC9651]

 to specify syntax and parsing

The term "resource" is to be interpreted as defined in

Section 3.1 of [HTTP]
.

2.  The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

The Deprecation HTTP response header field allows a server to communicate to a client
application that the resource in the context of the message will be or has been deprecated.

2.1.  Syntax

The Deprecation HTTP response header field describes the deprecation of the resource
identified with the response it occurred within (see
deprecation date, which may be in the future (the resource in context will be deprecated at that
date) or in the past (the resource in context was deprecated at that date).

Section 6.4.2 of [HTTP]

). It conveys the

Deprecation is an Item Structured Header Field; its value
[RFC9651]
.

MUST

 be a Date as per

Section 3.3.7 of

The following example shows that the resource in context was deprecated on Friday, June 30,
2023 at 23:59:59 UTC:

Deprecation: @1688169599

2.2.  Scope

The Deprecation header field applies to the resource identified with the response it occurred
within (see
specific resource. However, there may be scenarios where the scope of the announced
deprecation is larger than just the single resource where it appears.

), meaning that it announces the upcoming deprecation of that

Section 6.4.2 of [HTTP]

Resources are free to define such an increased scope, and usually this scope will be documented
by the resource so that consumers of the resource know about the increased scope and can
behave accordingly. When doing so, it is important to take into account that such increased

Dalal & Wilde

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9745

The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

March 2025

scoping is invisible for consumers who are unaware of the increased scoping rules. This means
that these consumers will not be aware of the increased scope, and they will not interpret
deprecation-related information differently from its standard meaning (i.e., it applies to the
resource only).

Using such an increased scope still may make sense, as deprecation-related information is only a
hint anyway. It is optional information that cannot be depended on, and client applications
should always be implemented in ways that allow them to function without deprecation-related
information. Increased scope information may help client application developers to glean
additional hints from related resources and thus might allow them to implement behavior that
enables them to make educated guesses about resources becoming deprecated.

For example, an API might not use Deprecation header fields on all of its resources but only on
designated resources such as the API's home document. This means that deprecation-related
information is available, but in order to get it, client application developers have to periodically
inspect the home document. In this example, the extended context of the Deprecation header
field would be all resources provided by the API, while the visibility of the information would
only be on the home document.

3.  The Deprecation Link Relation Type

In addition to the Deprecation HTTP response header field, the server can use links with the
deprecation link relation type to communicate to the client application developer where to find
more information about deprecation of the context. This can happen before the actual
deprecation to make a deprecation policy discoverable or after deprecation when there may be
documentation about the deprecation and how to manage it.

This specification places no restrictions on the representation of the linked deprecation policy. In
particular, the deprecation policy may be available as human-readable documentation or as a
machine-readable description.

3.1.  Documentation

The purpose of the Deprecation header field is to provide a hint about deprecation to the
resource consumer. Upon reception of the Deprecation header field, the client application
developer can look up the resource's documentation in order to find deprecation-related
information. The documentation
deprecated resource to a new resource(s) that replaces the deprecated resource, if applicable.
The resource provider can provide a link to the resource's documentation using a Link header
field with the relation type deprecation as shown below:

 provide a guide and timeline for migrating away from the

MAY

Link: <https://developer.example.com/deprecation>;
      rel="deprecation"; type="text/html"

Dalal & Wilde

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9745

The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

March 2025

In this example, the linked content provides additional information about deprecation of the
resource in context. There is no Deprecation header field in the response; thus, the resource is
not (yet) deprecated. However, the resource already exposes a link where information
describing how deprecation is managed for the resource is available. This may be the
documentation explaining the circumstances in which deprecation might take place and the
deprecation policies. For example, a policy may indicate that deprecation of a resource(s) will
always be signaled in the dedicated places at least N days ahead of the planned deprecation date
and then the resource(s) would be deprecated on the planned date. Or a policy may indicate that
the resource(s) would be deprecated first and then be signaled as deprecated at dedicated
places. The documentation, in addition to the deprecation policy, may also provide a migration
guide explaining to consumers of the resource how to migrate to a new or alternate resource(s)
before the deprecation date. Such policy and documentation would be very useful to consumers
of the resource to plan ahead and migrate successfully.

The following example uses the same Link header field but also announces a deprecation date
using a Deprecation header field:

Deprecation: @1688169599
Link: <https://developer.example.com/deprecation>;
      rel="deprecation"; type="text/html"

Given that the deprecation date is in the past, the linked information resource may have been
updated to include information about the deprecation, allowing consumers to discover
information about the deprecation and how to best manage it.

4.  Sunset

In addition to the deprecation-related information, if the resource provider wants to convey to
the client application that the deprecated resource is expected to become unresponsive at a
specific point in time, the Sunset HTTP header field
Deprecation header field.

 can be used in addition to the

[RFC8594]

The timestamp given in the Sunset HTTP header field
the Deprecation header field. If that happens (for example, due to misconfiguration of
deployment of the resource or an error), the client application developer
resource developer to get clarification.

MUST NOT

SHOULD

 be earlier than the one given in

 consult the

The following example shows that the resource in context was deprecated on Friday, June 30,
2023 at 23:59:59 UTC and its sunset date is Sunday, June 30, 2024 at 23:59:59 UTC. Please note that
for historical reasons the Sunset HTTP header field uses a different data format for date.

Deprecation: @1688169599
Sunset: Sun, 30 Jun 2024 23:59:59 UTC

Dalal & Wilde

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9745

The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

March 2025

5.  Resource Behavior

The act of deprecation does not change any behavior of the resource. The presence of a
Deprecation header field in a response is not meant to signal a change in the meaning or
function of a resource in the context; consumers can still use the resource in the same way as
they did before the resource was declared deprecated.

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

The Deprecation HTTP response header field has been added to the "Hypertext Transfer
Protocol (HTTP) Field Name Registry" (

Section 16.3.1 of [HTTP]

) as follows:

Field Name:

Deprecation

Status:

permanent

Structured Type:

Item

Reference:

RFC 9745, Section 2: The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

6.2.  The Deprecation Link Relation Type

The deprecation link relation type has been added to the "Link Relation Types" registry (
4.2 of [LINK]

) as follows:

Section

Relation Name:

deprecation

Description:

Refers to documentation (intended for human consumption) about the

deprecation of the link's context.

Reference:

RFC 9745, Section 3

7.  Security Considerations

The Deprecation header field should be treated as a hint, meaning that the resource is
indicating (but not guaranteeing with certainty) that it will be or has been deprecated.
Deprecated resources function as they would have without sending the Deprecation header
field, even though non-functional details may be affected (e.g., they have less efficiency and
longer response times).

The resource's documentation should provide additional information about the deprecation,
such as recommendations for replacement. Developers of client applications consuming the
resource

 always check the referred resource's documentation to verify authenticity and

SHOULD

Dalal & Wilde

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9745

The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

March 2025

accuracy. In cases where a Link header field is used to provide documentation, one should
assume (unless served over HTTPS) that the content of the Link header field may not be secure,
private, or integrity-guaranteed, so due caution should be exercised when using it (see
Section 5
of [LINK]
 for more details). In cases where the Deprecation header field value is in the past, the
client application developers
remain the same as before the deprecation date. In cases where the Deprecation header field
value is a date in the future, it informs client application developers about the effective date in
the future for deprecation. Therefore, client application developers consuming the resource
, if possible, consult the resource developer to discuss potential impact due to
SHOULD
deprecation and plan for possible transition to a recommended resource(s).

 no longer assume that the behavior of the resource will

MUST

8.  Normative References

[HTTP]

[LINK]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8594]

[RFC9651]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

.

,

,

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Nottingham, M. "Web Linking" RFC 8288 DOI 10.17487/RFC8288
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>

,
.

,

, October 2017,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Wilde, E. "The Sunset HTTP Header Field" RFC 8594 DOI 10.17487/RFC8594
,
May 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8594>

,
.

,

,

Nottingham, M.
10.17487/RFC9651

P. Kamp "Structured Field Values for HTTP" RFC 9651 DOI
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9651>

, September 2024,

,

,

,

 and

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
Polli
 for their contributions.

Nikhil Kolekar Darrel Miller Mark Nottingham

,

,

, and

Roberto

The authors take all responsibility for errors and omissions.

Authors' Addresses

Sanjay Dalal
Email:
URI:

sanjay.dalal@cal.berkeley.edu

https://github.com/sdatspun2

Dalal & Wilde

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9745

The Deprecation HTTP Response Header Field

March 2025

Erik Wilde
Email:
URI:

erik.wilde@dret.net
http://dret.net/netdret

Dalal & Wilde

Standards Track

Page 8

