Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9270
4872, 4873
Standards Track
August 2022
2070-1721
J. He
Huawei Technologies

I. Busi
Huawei Technologies

J. Ryoo
ETRI

B. Yoon
ETRI

P. Park
KT

RFC 9270
GMPLS Signaling Extensions for Shared Mesh
Protection

Abstract

ITU-T Recommendation G.808.3 deﬁnes the generic aspects of a Shared Mesh Protection (SMP)
mechanism, where the diﬀerence between SMP and Shared Mesh Restoration (SMR) is also
identiﬁed. ITU-T Recommendation G.873.3 deﬁnes the protection switching operation and
associated protocol for SMP at the Optical Data Unit (ODU) layer. RFC 7412 provides requirements
for any mechanism that would be used to implement SMP in a Multi-Protocol Label Switching -
Transport Proﬁle (MPLS-TP) network.

This document updates RFCs 4872 and 4873 to provide extensions for Generalized Multi-Protocol
Label Switching (GMPLS) signaling to support the control of the SMP mechanism.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9270
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9270

GMPLS Extensions for SMP

August 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modiﬁcations of
such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modiﬁed
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  SMP Deﬁnition

4.  Operation of SMP with GMPLS Signaling Extensions

5.  GMPLS Signaling Extensions for SMP

5.1.  Identiﬁers

5.2.  Signaling Primary LSPs

5.3.  Signaling Secondary LSPs

5.4.  SMP Preemption Priority

5.5.  Availability of Shared Resources: The Notify Message

5.6.  SMP APS Conﬁguration

6.  Updates to PROTECTION Object

6.1.  New Protection Type

6.2.  Updates to Deﬁnitions of Notiﬁcation and Operational Bits

6.3.  Preemption Priority

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9270

GMPLS Extensions for SMP

August 2022

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC4872]

 deﬁnes extensions for Resource Reservation Protocol - Traﬃc Engineering

RFC 4872
(RSVP-TE) to support Shared Mesh Restoration (SMR) mechanisms. SMR can be seen as a
particular case of preplanned Label Switched Path (LSP) rerouting that reduces the recovery
resource requirements by allowing multiple protecting LSPs to share common link and node
resources. The recovery resources for the protecting LSPs are pre-reserved during the
provisioning phase, and explicit restoration signaling is required to activate (i.e., commit
resource allocation at the data plane) a speciﬁc protecting LSP that was instantiated during the
provisioning phase. RFC 4873
PROTECTION object deﬁned in

 details the encoding of the last 32-bit Reserved ﬁeld of the

[RFC4873]

[RFC4872]

.

[G808.3]

 deﬁnes the generic aspects of a Shared Mesh Protection

ITU-T Recommendation G.808.3
(SMP) mechanism, which are not speciﬁc to a particular network technology in terms of
architecture types, preemption principle, path monitoring methods, etc. ITU-T Recommendation
G.873.3
Optical Data Unit (ODU) layer. RFC 7412
[RFC7412]
that would be used to implement SMP in a Multi-Protocol Label Switching - Transport Proﬁle
(MPLS-TP) network.

 deﬁnes the protection switching operation and associated protocol for SMP at the

 provides requirements for any mechanism

[G873.3]

SMP diﬀers from SMR in the activation/protection switching operation. The former activates a
protecting LSP via the Automatic Protection Switching (APS) protocol in the data plane when the
working LSP fails, while the latter does it via control plane signaling. It is therefore necessary to
distinguish SMP from SMR during provisioning so that each node involved behaves appropriately
in the recovery phase when activation of a protecting LSP is done. SMP has advantages with
regard to the recovery speed compared with SMR.

This document updates
Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) signaling to support the control of the SMP mechanism.
Speciﬁcally, it

 to provide extensions for Generalized Multi-

[RFC4873]

[RFC4872]

 and

•

deﬁnes a new LSP Protection Type, "Shared Mesh Protection", for the LSP Flags ﬁeld
of the PROTECTION object (see Section 6.1),

[RFC4872]

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9270

GMPLS Extensions for SMP

August 2022

•

updates the deﬁnitions of the Notiﬁcation (N) and Operational (O) ﬁelds
PROTECTION object to take the new SMP type into account (see Section 6.2), and

[RFC4872]

 of the

•

updates the deﬁnition of the 16-bit Reserved ﬁeld
allocate 8 bits to signal the SMP preemption priority (see Section 6.3).

[RFC4873]

 of the PROTECTION object to

Only the generic aspects for signaling SMP are addressed by this document. The technology-
speciﬁc aspects are expected to be addressed by other documents.

[RFC8776]

 deﬁnes a collection of common YANG data types for Traﬃc Engineering (TE)
RFC 8776
conﬁguration and state capabilities. It deﬁnes several identities for LSP Protection Types. As this
 is expected to be updated to support
document introduces a new LSP Protection Type,
 deﬁnes a YANG data model for the
the SMP mechanism speciﬁed in this document.
provisioning and management of TE tunnels, LSPs, and interfaces. It includes some protection
and restoration data nodes relevant to this document. Management aspects of the SMP
mechanism are outside the scope of this document, and they are expected to be addressed by
other documents.

[RFC8776]
[YANG-TE]

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

In addition, the reader is assumed to be familiar with the terminology used in
[RFC4426]

, and RFC 6372

[RFC6372]

.

[RFC4872]

, RFC 4426

3.  SMP Deﬁnition

 deﬁnes the generic aspects of an SMP mechanism.

[G808.3]
switching operation and associated protocol for SMP at the ODU layer.
requirements for any mechanism that would be used to implement SMP in an MPLS-TP network.

 deﬁnes the protection
 provides

[RFC7412]

[G873.3]

The SMP mechanism is based on precomputed protecting LSPs that are preconﬁgured into the
network elements. Preconﬁguration here means pre-reserving resources for the protecting LSPs
without activating a particular protecting LSP (e.g., in circuit networks, the cross-connects in the
intermediate nodes of the protecting LSP are not preestablished). Preconﬁguring but not
activating protecting LSPs allows link and node resources to be shared by the protecting LSPs of
multiple working LSPs (which are themselves disjoint and thus unlikely to fail simultaneously).
Protecting LSPs are activated in response to failures of working LSPs or operator commands by
means of the APS protocol, which operates in the data plane. The APS protocol messages are
exchanged along the protecting LSP. SMP is always revertive.

SMP is very similar to SMR, except that activation in the case of SMR is achieved by control plane
signaling during the recovery operation, while the same is done for SMP by the APS protocol in
the data plane.

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9270

GMPLS Extensions for SMP

August 2022

4.  Operation of SMP with GMPLS Signaling Extensions

Consider the network topology shown in Figure 1:

                          A---B---C---D
                           \         /
                            E---F---G
                           /         \
                          H---I---J---K

Figure 1: An Example of an SMP Topology

[RFC3209]

The working LSPs [A,B,C,D] and [H,I,J,K] could be protected by the protecting LSPs [A,E,F,G,D] and
[H,E,F,G,K], respectively. Per RFC 3209
, in order to achieve resource sharing during the
signaling of these protecting LSPs, they have the same Tunnel Endpoint Address (as part of their
SESSION object). However, these addresses are not the same in this example. Similar to SMR, this
document deﬁnes a new LSP Protection Type of the secondary LSP as "Shared Mesh Protection"
(see Section 6.1) to allow resource sharing along nodes E, F, and G. Examples of shared resources
include the capacity of a link and the cross-connects in a node. In this case, the protecting LSPs
are not merged (which is useful, since the paths diverge at G), but the resources along E, F, and G
can be shared.

When a failure, such as Signal Fail (SF) or Signal Degrade (SD), occurs on one of the working LSPs
(say, working LSP [A,B,C,D]), the end node (say, node A) that detects the failure initiates the
protection switching operation. End node A will send a protection switching request APS message
(for example, SF) to its adjacent (downstream) intermediate node (say, node E) to activate the
corresponding protecting LSP and will wait for a conﬁrmation message from node E.

If the protection resource is available, node E will send the conﬁrmation APS message to the end
node (node A) and forward the switching request APS message to its adjacent (downstream) node
(say, node F). When the conﬁrmation APS message is received by node A, the cross-connection on
node A is established. At this time, traﬃc is bridged to and selected from the protecting LSP at
node A. After forwarding the switching request APS message, node E will wait for a conﬁrmation
APS message from node F, which triggers node E to set up the cross-connection for the protecting
LSP being activated.

If the protection resource is not available (due to failure or being used by higher-priority
connections), the switching will not be successful; the intermediate node (node E)
MUST
message to notify the end node (node A) (see Section 5.5). If the resource is in use by a lower-
priority protecting LSP, the lower-priority service will be removed, and the intermediate node will
then follow the procedure as described for the case when the protection resource is available for
the higher-priority protecting LSP.

 send a

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9270

GMPLS Extensions for SMP

August 2022

 send a message to notify node A (see
If node E fails to allocate the protection resource, it
Section 5.5). Then, node A will stop bridging and selecting traﬃc to/from the protecting LSP and
proceed with the procedure of removing the protection allocation according to the APS protocol.

MUST

5.  GMPLS Signaling Extensions for SMP

The following subsections detail how LSPs using SMP can be signaled in an interoperable fashion
using GMPLS RSVP-TE extensions (see RFC 3473

). This signaling enables:

[RFC3473]

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

the ability to identify a "secondary protecting LSP" (LSP [A,E,F,G,D] or LSP [H,E,F,G,K] from
Figure 1, here called the "secondary LSP") used to recover another "primary working LSP"
(LSP [A,B,C,D] or LSP [H,I,J,K] from Figure 1, here called the "protected LSP"),

the ability to associate the secondary LSP with the protected LSP,

the capability to include information about the resources used by the protected LSP while
instantiating the secondary LSP,

the capability to instantiate several secondary LSPs eﬃciently during the provisioning
phase, and

the capability to support activation of a secondary LSP via the APS protocol in the data
plane if a failure occurs.

5.1.  Identiﬁers

To simplify association operations, both LSPs (i.e., the protected LSP and the secondary LSP)
belong to the same session. Thus, the SESSION object
however,

 be diﬀerent to distinguish between the protected LSP and the secondary LSP.

 be the same for both LSPs. The LSP ID,

MUST

MUST

A new LSP Protection Type, "Shared Mesh Protection", is deﬁned (see Section 6.1) for the LSP Flags
ﬁeld of the PROTECTION object (see
value is only applicable to bidirectional LSPs as required in

) to set up the two LSPs. This LSP Protection Type

[RFC4872]

[G808.3]

.

5.2.  Signaling Primary LSPs

The PROTECTION object (see
primary working LSPs, with the LSP Protection Type value set to "Shared Mesh Protection".

) is included in the Path message during signaling of the

[RFC4872]

Primary working LSPs are signaled by setting in the PROTECTION object the S bit to 0, the P bit to
0, and the N bit to 1; and setting in the ASSOCIATION object the Association ID to the associated
secondary protecting LSP_ID.

Note: The N bit is set to indicate that the protection switching signaling is done via
the data plane.

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9270

GMPLS Extensions for SMP

August 2022

5.3.  Signaling Secondary LSPs

The PROTECTION object (see
) is included in the Path message during signaling of the
secondary protecting LSPs, with the LSP Protection Type value set to "Shared Mesh Protection".

[RFC4872]

Secondary protecting LSPs are signaled by setting in the PROTECTION object the S bit, the P bit,
and the N bit to 1; and setting in the ASSOCIATION object the Association ID to the associated
primary working LSP_ID, which
the Path message used to instantiate the secondary LSP
PRIMARY_PATH_ROUTE object (see
at each intermediate node along the secondary path.

 include at least one
) that further allows for recovery resource sharing

 be known before signaling of the secondary LSP. Moreover,

[RFC4872]

MUST

MUST

With this setting, the resources for the secondary LSP
 be pre-reserved but not committed at
the data plane level, meaning that the internals of the switch need not be established until explicit
action is taken to activate this LSP. Activation of a secondary LSP and protection switching to the
activated protecting LSP is done using the APS protocol in the data plane.

MUST

After protection switching completes, the protecting LSP
and the O bit to 1 in the PROTECTION object. At this point, the link and node resources
allocated for this LSP, which becomes a primary LSP (ready to carry traﬃc). The formerly
working LSP

 be signaled with the A bit set in the ADMIN_STATUS object (see

MUST

[RFC3473]

MAY

 be signaled by setting the S bit to 0

MUST

 be

).

Support for extra traﬃc in SMP is left for further study. Therefore, mechanisms to set up LSPs for
extra traﬃc are outside the scope of this document.

5.4.  SMP Preemption Priority

The SMP preemption priority of a protecting LSP is used by the APS protocol to resolve
competition for shared resources among multiple protecting LSPs and is indicated in the
Preemption Priority ﬁeld of the PROTECTION object in the Path message of the protecting LSP.

The Setup and Holding priorities in the SESSION_ATTRIBUTE object can be used by GMPLS to
control LSP preemption, but they are not used by the APS to resolve competition among multiple
protecting LSPs. This avoids the need to deﬁne a complex policy for deﬁning Setup and Holding
priorities when used for both GMPLS control plane LSP preemption and SMP shared resource
competition resolution.

When an intermediate node on the protecting LSP receives the Path message, the priority value in
 be stored for that protecting LSP. When resource competition
the Preemption Priority ﬁeld
among multiple protecting LSPs occurs, the APS protocol will use their priority values to resolve
this competition. A lower value has a higher priority.

MUST

In SMP, a preempted LSP
Once the working LSP and the protecting LSP are conﬁgured or preconﬁgured, the end node
keep refreshing both working and protecting LSPs, regardless of failure or preemption status.

 be terminated even after its resources have been deallocated.
MUST

MUST NOT

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9270

GMPLS Extensions for SMP

August 2022

5.5.  Availability of Shared Resources: The Notify Message

MUST

When a lower-priority protecting LSP is preempted, the intermediate node that performed the
) and
preemption
error sub-code "Shared resources unavailable" (17) to the end nodes of that protecting LSP. Upon
receipt of this Notify message, the end node
protecting LSP and try switching the traﬃc to another protecting LSP, if available.

 send a Notify message with error code "Notify Error" (25) (see

 stop sending and selecting traﬃc to/from its

[RFC4872]

MUST

MUST

 be generated by the intermediate node to all the end nodes of the protecting

When a protecting LSP occupies the shared resources and they become unavailable, the same
Notify message
LSPs that have lower SMP preemption priorities than the one that has occupied the shared
resources. If the shared resources become unavailable due to a failure in the shared resources, the
same Notify message
protecting LSPs that have been conﬁgured to use the shared resources. In the case of a failure of
 avoid trying to switch traﬃc to these protecting LSPs that
the working LSP, these end nodes
have been conﬁgured to use the shared resources and try switching the traﬃc to other protecting
LSPs, if available.

 be generated by the intermediate node to all the end nodes of the

MUST

MUST

When the shared resources become available, a Notify message with error code "Notify Error"
(25) and error sub-code "Shared resources available" (18)
node. The recipients of this Notify message are the end nodes of the lower-priority protecting LSPs
that have been preempted and/or all the end nodes of the protecting LSPs that have lower SMP
preemption priorities than the one that does not need the shared resources anymore. Upon
receipt of this Notify message, the end node is allowed to reinitiate the protection switching
operation as described in Section 4, if it still needs the protection resource.

 be generated by the intermediate

MUST

5.6.  SMP APS Conﬁguration

SMP relies on APS protocol messages being exchanged between the nodes along the path to
activate a protecting LSP.

In order to allow the exchange of APS protocol messages, an APS channel has to be conﬁgured
between adjacent nodes along the path of the protecting LSP. This is done by means other than
GMPLS signaling, before any protecting LSP has been set up. Therefore, there are likely additional
requirements for APS conﬁguration that are outside the scope of this document.

Depending on the APS protocol message format, the APS protocol may use diﬀerent identiﬁers
than GMPLS signaling to identify the protecting LSP.

Since the APS protocol is left for further study per
, it can be assumed that the APS
message format and identiﬁers are technology speciﬁc and/or vendor speciﬁc. Therefore,
additional requirements for APS conﬁguration are outside the scope of this document.

[G808.3]

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9270

GMPLS Extensions for SMP

August 2022

6.  Updates to PROTECTION Object

GMPLS extension requirements for SMP introduce several updates to the PROTECTION object (see
[RFC4872]

), as detailed below.

6.1.  New Protection Type

A new LSP Protection Type, "Shared Mesh Protection", is added in the PROTECTION object. This
LSP Protection Type value is only applicable to bidirectional LSPs.

LSP (Protection Type) Flags:

0x20: Shared Mesh Protection

The rules deﬁned in
aware. Therefore, there are no backward-compatibility issues.

Section 14.2 of [RFC4872]

 ensure that all the nodes along an SMP LSP are SMP

6.2.  Updates to Deﬁnitions of Notiﬁcation and Operational Bits

The deﬁnitions of the N and O bits in

Section 14.1 of [RFC4872]

 are replaced as follows:

Notiﬁcation (N): 1 bit

When set to 1, this bit indicates that the control plane message exchange is only used for
notiﬁcation during protection switching. When set to 0 (default), it indicates that the control
plane message exchanges are used for purposes of protection switching. The N bit is only
applicable when the LSP Protection Type Flag is set to 0x04 (1:N Protection with Extra-Traﬃc),
0x08 (1+1 Unidirectional Protection), 0x10 (1+1 Bidirectional Protection), or 0x20 (Shared Mesh
Protection). The N bit
1.

 be set to 0 in any other case. If 0x20 (SMP), the N bit

 be set to

MUST

MUST

Operational (O): 1 bit

When set to 1, this bit indicates that the protecting LSP is carrying traﬃc after protection
switching. The O bit is only applicable when (1) the P bit is set to 1 and (2) the LSP Protection
Type Flag is set to 0x04 (1:N Protection with Extra-Traﬃc), 0x08 (1+1 Unidirectional
Protection), 0x10 (1+1 Bidirectional Protection), or 0x20 (Shared Mesh Protection). The O bit
MUST

 be set to 0 in any other case.

6.3.  Preemption Priority

 reserved a 32-bit ﬁeld in the PROTECTION object header. Subsequently,

[RFC4872]
allocated several bits from that ﬁeld and left the remainder of the bits reserved. This speciﬁcation
further allocates the Preemption Priority ﬁeld from the remaining formerly reserved bits. The 32-
bit ﬁeld in the PROTECTION object as deﬁned in
 is updated
by this document as follows:

 and modiﬁed by

[RFC4873]

[RFC4872]

[RFC4873]

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9270

GMPLS Extensions for SMP

August 2022

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |I|R|   Reserved    | Seg.Flags |   Reserved    | Preempt Prio  |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Preemption Priority (Preempt Prio): 8 bits

This ﬁeld indicates the SMP preemption priority of a protecting LSP, when the LSP Protection
Type ﬁeld indicates "Shared Mesh Protection". The SMP preemption priority value is
conﬁgured at the end nodes of the protecting LSP by a network operator. A lower value has a
higher priority. The decision regarding how many priority levels should be implemented in an
SMP network is left to network operators.

See

[RFC4873]

 for the deﬁnitions of the other ﬁelds.

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA maintains a group of registries called "Resource Reservation Protocol (RSVP) Parameters",
which includes the "Error Codes and Globally-Deﬁned Error Value Sub-Codes" registry. IANA has
added the following values to the "Sub-Codes - 25 Notify Error" subregistry, which lists error value
sub-codes that may be used with error code 25. IANA has allocated the following error value sub-
codes (Table 1) for use with this error code as described in this document.

Value Description

Reference

17

18

Shared resources unavailable

RFC 9270

Shared resources available

RFC 9270

Table 1: New Error Sub-Codes

8.  Security Considerations

Since this document makes use of the exchange of RSVP messages that include a Notify message,
the security threats discussed in

 also apply to this document.

[RFC4872]

Additionally, it may be possible to cause disruption to traﬃc on one protecting LSP by targeting a
link used by the primary LSP of another, higher-priority LSP somewhere completely diﬀerent in
the network. For example, in Figure 1, assume that the preemption priority of LSP [A,E,F,G,D] is
higher than that of LSP [H,E,F,G,K] and the protecting LSP [H,E,F,G,K] is being used to transport
traﬃc. If link B-C is attacked, traﬃc on LSP [H,E,F,G,K] can be disrupted. For this reason, it is
important not only to use security mechanisms as discussed in
acknowledge that detailed knowledge of a network's topology, including routes and priorities of
LSPs, can help an attacker better target or improve the eﬃcacy of an attack.

 but also to

[RFC4872]

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9270

GMPLS Extensions for SMP

August 2022

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[G808.3]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3209]

[RFC3473]

[RFC4426]

[RFC4872]

[RFC4873]

[RFC8174]

International Telecommunication Union "Generic protection switching - Shared
mesh protection" ITU-T Recommendation G.808.3
www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-G.808.3>
.

, October 2012,

<https://

,

,

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Awduche, D. Berger, L. Gan, D. Li, T. Srinivasan, V.
Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels" RFC 3209 DOI 10.17487/RFC3209
2001,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3209>

, and

,
,

,

,

,
G. Swallow "RSVP-TE:

, December

,

Berger, L., Ed. "Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling
Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traﬃc Engineering (RSVP-TE) Extensions" RFC
,
3473 DOI 10.17487/RFC3473
.
rfc3473>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2003,

,

Lang, J., Ed. Rajagopalan, B., Ed.
,
Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Recovery Functional Speciﬁcation" RFC 4426
DOI 10.17487/RFC4426

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4426>

,
D. Papadimitriou, Ed. "Generalized Multi-

, March 2006,

, and

,

,
Lang, J P., Ed. Rekhter, Y., Ed.
Support of End-to-End Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)
,
,
Recovery" RFC 4872 DOI 10.17487/RFC4872
.
editor.org/info/rfc4872>

D. Papadimitriou, Ed. "RSVP-TE Extensions in

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2007,

, and

,

,
,
Berger, L. Bryskin, I. Papadimitriou, D.
,
,
Recovery" RFC 4873 DOI 10.17487/RFC4873
.
editor.org/info/rfc4873>

, and

,
, May 2007,

A. Farrel "GMPLS Segment
<https://www.rfc-

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

9.2.  Informative References

[G873.3]

[RFC6372]

International Telecommunication Union "Optical transport network - Shared
mesh protection" ITU-T Recommendation G.873.3
.
www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-G.873.3-201709-I/en>

, September 2017,

<https://

,

,

 and

Sprecher, N., Ed.
Survivability Framework" RFC 6372 DOI 10.17487/RFC6372
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6372>

A. Farrel, Ed. "MPLS Transport Proﬁle (MPLS-TP)

,

,

,

, September 2011,

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9270

GMPLS Extensions for SMP

August 2022

[RFC7412]

[RFC8776]

[YANG-TE]

,

Weingarten, Y. Aldrin, S. Pan, P. Ryoo, J.
Transport Proﬁle (MPLS-TP) Shared Mesh Protection" RFC 7412 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7412

G. Mirsky "Requirements for MPLS
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7412>
.

, December 2014,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,
, and
Saad, T. Gandhi, R. Liu, X. Beeram, V.
,
,
Types for Traﬃc Engineering" RFC 8776 DOI 10.17487/RFC8776
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8776>

I. Bryskin "Common YANG Data
, June 2020,

,

,

,

,

,

,
,
Saad, T. Gandhi, R. Liu, X. Beeram, V.P. Bryskin, I.
YANG Data Model for Traﬃc Engineering Tunnels, Label Switched Paths and
, 11 July
Interfaces" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-teas-yang-te-30
2022,
.
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-teas-yang-te-30>

O. Gonzalez de Dios "A

, and

,

,

Acknowledgements

Adrian Farrel Vishnu Pavan Beeram Tom Petch Ines Robles
,
,
The authors would like to thank
John Scudder Dale Worley Dan Romascanu Éric Vyncke Roman Danyliw Paul Wouters Lars
,
Eggert Francesca Palombini
,
this document.

 for their valuable comments and suggestions on

Robert Wilton

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Contributors

The following person contributed signiﬁcantly to the content of this document and should be
considered a coauthor.

Yuji Tochio
Fujitsu
Email:

 tochio@fujitsu.com

Authors' Addresses

Jia He
Huawei Technologies
F3-1B, R&D Center, Huawei Industrial Base
Bantian, Longgang District
Shenzhen
China
Email:

 hejia@huawei.com

Italo Busi
Huawei Technologies
Email:

 italo.busi@huawei.com

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9270

GMPLS Extensions for SMP

August 2022

Jeong-dong Ryoo
ETRI
218 Gajeongno
Yuseong-gu
Daejeon
34129
South Korea
Phone:
Email:

 +82-42-860-5384
 ryoo@etri.re.kr

Bin Yeong Yoon
ETRI
Email:

 byyun@etri.re.kr

Peter Park
KT
Email:

 peter.park@kt.com

He, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

