Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9149
Standards Track
April 2022
2070-1721
T. Pauly
Apple Inc.

D. Schinazi
Google LLC

C.A. Wood
Cloudﬂare

RFC 9149
TLS Ticket Requests

Abstract

TLS session tickets enable stateless connection resumption for clients without server-side, per-
client state. Servers vend an arbitrary number of session tickets to clients, at their discretion,
upon connection establishment. Clients store and use tickets when resuming future connections.
This document describes a mechanism by which clients can specify the desired number of tickets
needed for future connections. This extension aims to provide a means for servers to determine
the number of tickets to generate in order to reduce ticket waste while simultaneously priming
clients for future connection attempts.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9149

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9149

TLS Ticket Requests

April 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Use Cases

3.  Ticket Requests

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Performance Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC8446]

As described in
own discretion in NewSessionTicket messages. There are at least three limitations with this
design.

, TLS servers vend clients an arbitrary number of session tickets at their

First, servers vend some (often hard-coded) number of tickets per connection. Some server
implementations return a diﬀerent default number of tickets for session resumption than for the
initial connection that created the session. No static choice, whether ﬁxed or dependent upon
resumption, is ideal for all situations.

Second, clients do not have a way of expressing their desired number of tickets, which can impact
future connection establishment. For example, clients can open parallel TLS connections to the
same server for HTTP, or they can race TLS connections across diﬀerent network interfaces. The
latter is especially useful in transport systems that implement Happy Eyeballs

[RFC8305]

. Since

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9149

TLS Ticket Requests

April 2022

clients control connection concurrency and resumption, a standard mechanism for requesting
more than one ticket is desirable for avoiding ticket reuse. See
discussion of ticket reuse risks.

Appendix C.4 of [RFC8446]

 for

Third, all tickets in the client's possession ultimately derive from some initial connection.
Especially when the client was initially authenticated with a client certiﬁcate, that session may
need to be refreshed from time to time. Consequently, a server may periodically force a new
connection even when the client presents a valid ticket. When that happens, it is possible that any
other tickets derived from the same original session are equally invalid. A client avoids a full
handshake on subsequent connections if it replaces all stored tickets with new ones obtained
from the just-performed full handshake. The number of tickets the server should vend for a new
connection may therefore need to be larger than the number for routine resumption.

This document speciﬁes a new TLS extension, "ticket_request", that clients can use to express their
desired number of session tickets. Servers can use this extension as a hint for the number of
NewSessionTicket messages to vend. This extension is only applicable to TLS 1.3
1.3

, and future versions of (D)TLS.

[RFC8446]

[RFC9147]

, DTLS

1.1.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  Use Cases

The ability to request one or more tickets is useful for a variety of purposes:

Parallel HTTP connections:

To improve performance, a client may open parallel connections.

To avoid ticket reuse, the client may use distinct tickets on each connection. Clients must
therefore bound the number of parallel connections they initiate by the number of tickets in
their possession or risk ticket reuse.

Connection racing:

Happy Eyeballs V2

[RFC8305]

 describes techniques for performing

connection racing. The Transport Services Implementation document
 also describes
how connections can race across interfaces and address families. In such cases, clients may
use more than one ticket while racing connection attempts in order to establish one successful
connection. Having multiple tickets equips clients with enough tickets to initiate connection
racing while avoiding ticket reuse and ensuring that their cache of tickets does not empty
during such races. Moreover, as some servers may implement single-use tickets, distinct
tickets prevent premature ticket invalidation by racing.

[TAPS]

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9149

TLS Ticket Requests

April 2022

Less ticket waste:

Currently, TLS servers use application-speciﬁc, and often implementation-

speciﬁc, logic to determine how many tickets to issue. By moving the burden of ticket count to
clients, servers do not generate wasteful tickets. As an example, clients might only request one
ticket during resumption. Moreover, as ticket generation might involve expensive
computation, e.g., public key cryptographic operations, avoiding waste is desirable.

Decline resumption:

Clients can indicate they do not intend to resume a connection by sending

a ticket request with count of zero.

3.  Ticket Requests

As discussed in Section 1, clients may want diﬀerent numbers of tickets for new or resumed
connections. Clients may indicate to servers their desired number of tickets to receive on a single
connection, in the case of a new or resumed connection, via the following "ticket_request"
extension:

enum {
    ticket_request(58), (65535)
} ExtensionType;

Clients

MAY

 send this extension in ClientHello. It contains the following structure:

struct {
    uint8 new_session_count;
    uint8 resumption_count;
} ClientTicketRequest;

new_session_count:

The number of tickets desired by the client if the server chooses to negotiate

a new connection.

resumption_count:

The number of tickets desired by the client if the server is willing to resume

using a ticket presented in this ClientHello.

SHOULD

 set new_session_count to the desired number of

A client starting a new connection
session tickets and resumption_count to 0. Once a client's ticket cache is primed, a
resumption_count of 1 is a good choice that allows the server to replace each ticket with a new
ticket without over-provisioning the client with excess tickets. However, clients that race multiple
connections and place a separate ticket in each will ultimately end up with just the tickets from a
single resumed session. In that case, clients can send a resumption_count equal to the number of
connections they are attempting in parallel. (Clients that send a resumption_count less than the
number of parallel connection attempts might end up with zero tickets.)

When a client presenting a previously obtained ticket ﬁnds that the server nevertheless
negotiates a new connection, the client
 assume that any other tickets associated with the
SHOULD
same session as the presented ticket are also no longer valid for resumption. This includes tickets

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9149

TLS Ticket Requests

April 2022

obtained during the initial (new) connection and all tickets subsequently obtained as part of
subsequent resumptions. Requesting more than one ticket when servers complete a new
connection helps keep the session cache primed.

SHOULD NOT

 send more tickets than requested for the connection type selected by the

Servers
server (new or resumed connection). Moreover, servers
tickets they are willing to send, whether for new or resumed connections, to save resources.
Therefore, the number of NewSessionTicket messages sent will typically be the minimum of the
server's self-imposed limit and the number requested. Servers
typically using the same limit, if the tickets that are originally sent are somehow invalidated.

 place a limit on the number of

 send additional tickets,

SHOULD

MAY

A server that supports and uses a client "ticket_request" extension
"ticket_request" extension in the EncryptedExtensions message. It contains the following
structure:

 also send the

MUST

struct {
    uint8 expected_count;
} ServerTicketRequestHint;

expected_count:

The number of tickets the server expects to send in this connection.

MUST NOT

Servers
ServerHello or HelloRetryRequest messages. A client
"illegal_parameter" alert if the "ticket_request" extension is present in any server handshake
message.

 send the "ticket_request" extension in any handshake message, including
MUST

 abort the connection with an

If a client receives a HelloRetryRequest, the presence (or absence) of the "ticket_request"
extension
MUST
present, a client
message.

 be maintained in the second ClientHello message. Moreover, if this extension is
MUST NOT

 change the value of ClientTicketRequest in the second ClientHello

4.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added the following entry to the "TLS ExtensionType Values" registry
[RFC8447]

:

[RFC8446]

Value

Extension Name

TLS 1.3 DTLS-Only

Recommended

58

ticket_request

CH, EE

N

Y

Table 1: Addition to TLS ExtensionType Values Registry

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9149

TLS Ticket Requests

April 2022

5.  Performance Considerations

Section 4.6.1 of [RFC8446]

Servers can send tickets in NewSessionTicket messages any time after the server Finished
message (see
a client can potentially harm application performance if the tickets are sent before application
data. For example, if the transport connection has a constrained congestion window, ticket
messages could delay sending application data. To avoid this, servers should prioritize sending
application data over tickets when possible.

). A server that chooses to send a large number of tickets to

6.  Security Considerations

Ticket reuse is a security and privacy concern. Moreover, clients must take care when pooling
tickets as a means of avoiding or amortizing handshake costs. If servers do not rotate session
ticket encryption keys frequently, clients may be encouraged to obtain and use tickets beyond
common lifetime windows of, e.g., 24 hours. Despite ticket lifetime hints provided by servers,
clients
session ticket encryption key rotation period. Speciﬁcally, as speciﬁed in
[RFC8446]

 dispose of cached tickets after some reasonable amount of time that mimics the

 cache tickets for longer than 7 days.

Section 4.6.1 of

MUST NOT

, clients

SHOULD

In some cases, a server may send NewSessionTicket messages immediately upon sending the
server Finished message rather than waiting for the client Finished message. If the server has not
veriﬁed the client's ownership of its IP address, e.g., with the TLS cookie extension (see
4.2.2 of [RFC8446]
attack proportional to the count value toward a target by performing a (DTLS) key exchange over
UDP with spoofed packets. Servers
send until they have veriﬁed the client's ownership of its IP address.

), an attacker may take advantage of this behavior to create an ampliﬁcation

 limit the number of NewSessionTicket messages they

SHOULD

Section

Servers that do not enforce a limit on the number of NewSessionTicket messages sent in response
to a "ticket_request" extension could leave themselves open to DoS attacks, especially if ticket
creation is expensive.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9149

TLS Ticket Requests

April 2022

[RFC8447]

[RFC9147]

Salowey, J.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8447

,
S. Turner "IANA Registry Updates for TLS and DTLS" RFC 8447
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8447>
.

, August 2018,

 and

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>
.

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, and

, April 2022,

,

,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC8305]

[TAPS]

T. Pauly "Happy Eyeballs Version 2: Better Connectivity Using

Schinazi, D.
,
Concurrency" RFC 8305 DOI 10.17487/RFC8305
,
.
editor.org/info/rfc8305>

 and
,

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Brunstrom, A., Ed. Pauly, T., Ed. Enghardt, T. Tiesel, P.
"Implementing Interfaces to Transport Services" Work in Progress Internet-
, 7 March 2022,
Draft, draft-ietf-taps-impl-12
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/
.
html/draft-ietf-taps-impl-12>

,
M. Welzl
,

, and

,

,

,

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
Hubert Kario
versions of this document.
counts in a ticket request.

,
David Benjamin Eric Rescorla Nick Sullivan Martin Thomson

,

,

,

, and other members of the TLS Working Group for discussions on earlier draft

Viktor Dukhovni

 contributed text allowing clients to send multiple

Authors' Addresses

Tommy Pauly
Apple Inc.
One Apple Park Way
Cupertino CA 95014
,
United States of America
Email:

 tpauly@apple.com

David Schinazi
Google LLC
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

,

 dschinazi.ietf@gmail.com

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9149

TLS Ticket Requests

April 2022

Christopher A. Wood
Cloudﬂare
101 Townsend St
San Francisco CA 94107
United States of America
Email:

,

 caw@heapingbits.net

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

