Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9097
Standards Track
November 2021
2070-1721
A. Morton
AT&T Labs

R. Geib
Deutsche Telekom

L. Ciavattone
AT&T Labs

RFC 9097
Metrics and Methods for One-Way IP Capacity

Abstract

This memo revisits the problem of Network Capacity Metrics ﬁrst examined in RFC 5136. This
memo speciﬁes a more practical Maximum IP-Layer Capacity Metric deﬁnition catering to
measurement and outlines the corresponding Methods of Measurement.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9097

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Scope, Goals, and Applicability

3.  Motivation

4.  General Parameters and Deﬁnitions

5.  IP-Layer Capacity Singleton Metric Deﬁnitions

5.1.  Formal Name

5.2.  Parameters

5.3.  Metric Deﬁnitions

5.4.  Related Round-Trip Delay and One-Way Loss Deﬁnitions

5.5.  Discussion

5.6.  Reporting the Metric

6.  Maximum IP-Layer Capacity Metric Deﬁnitions (Statistics)

6.1.  Formal Name

6.2.  Parameters

6.3.  Metric Deﬁnitions

6.4.  Related Round-Trip Delay and One-Way Loss Deﬁnitions

6.5.  Discussion

6.6.  Reporting the Metric

7.  IP-Layer Sender Bit Rate Singleton Metric Deﬁnitions

7.1.  Formal Name

7.2.  Parameters

7.3.  Metric Deﬁnition

7.4.  Discussion

7.5.  Reporting the Metric

8.  Method of Measurement

8.1.  Load Rate Adjustment Algorithm

8.2.  Measurement Qualiﬁcation or Veriﬁcation

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

8.3.  Measurement Considerations

9.  Reporting Formats

9.1.  Conﬁguration and Reporting Data Formats

10. Security Considerations

11. IANA Considerations

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Load Rate Adjustment Pseudocode

Appendix B.  RFC 8085 UDP Guidelines Check

B.1.  Assessment of Mandatory Requirements

B.2.  Assessment of Recommendations

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The IETF's eﬀorts to deﬁne Network Capacity and Bulk Transport Capacity (BTC) have been
chartered and progressed for over twenty years. Over that time, the performance community has
seen the development of Informative deﬁnitions in
Transport Capacity,
[RFC5136]
Experimental metric deﬁnitions and methods in "Model-Based Metrics for Bulk Transport
Capacity"

 for Network Capacity and Maximum IP-Layer Capacity, and the

 for the Framework for Bulk

[RFC8337]

[RFC3148]

.

[RFC5136]

[RFC3148]

[RFC5136]

, such as Available Capacity. Measurements depend on the network

 and
This memo revisits the problem of Network Capacity Metrics examined ﬁrst in
later in
 (goodput)
. Maximum IP-Layer Capacity and Bulk Transfer Capacity
are diﬀerent metrics. Maximum IP-Layer Capacity is like the theoretical goal for goodput. There
are many metrics in
path under test and the use case. Here, the main use case is to assess the Maximum Capacity of
one or more networks where the subscriber receives speciﬁc performance assurances, sometimes
referred to as Internet access, or where a limit of the technology used on a path is being tested.
For example, when a user subscribes to a 1 Gbps service, then the user, the Service Provider, and
possibly other parties want to assure that the speciﬁed performance level is delivered. When a
test conﬁrms the subscribed performance level, a tester can seek the location of a bottleneck
elsewhere.

[RFC3148]

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

This memo recognizes the importance of a deﬁnition of a Maximum IP-Layer Capacity Metric at
a time when Internet subscription speeds have increased dramatically -- a deﬁnition that is both
practical and eﬀective for the performance community's needs, including Internet users. The
metric deﬁnitions are intended to use Active Methods of Measurement
of Measurement is included for each metric.

, and a Method

[RFC7799]

The most direct Active Measurement of IP-Layer Capacity would use IP packets, but in practice a
transport header is needed to traverse address and port translators. UDP oﬀers the most direct
assessment possibility, and in the measurement study to investigate whether UDP is viable as a
general Internet transport protocol
tested support UDP transport. A number of liaison statements have been exchanged on this topic
[LS-SG12-A] [LS-SG12-B]
approach to IP-Layer Capacity measurement.

, discussing the laboratory and ﬁeld tests that support the UDP-based

, the authors found that a high percentage of paths

[copycat]

This memo also recognizes the updates to the IP Performance Metrics (IPPM) Framework
[RFC2330]
Advanced Stream and Sampling Framework and
Coexistence Updates.

 that have been published since 1998. In particular, it makes use of

 for its IPv4, IPv6, and IPv4-IPv6

[RFC8468]

[RFC7312]

 for the

Appendix A describes the load rate adjustment algorithm, using pseudocode. Appendix B
discusses the algorithm's compliance with

[RFC8085]

.

1.1.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  Scope, Goals, and Applicability

The scope of this memo is to deﬁne Active Measurement metrics and corresponding methods to
unambiguously determine Maximum IP-Layer Capacity and useful secondary metrics.

Another goal is to harmonize the speciﬁed Metric and Method across the industry, and this memo
is the vehicle that captures IETF consensus, possibly resulting in changes to the speciﬁcations of
other Standards Development Organizations (SDOs) (through each SDO's normal contribution
process or through liaison exchange).

Secondary goals are to add considerations for test procedures and to provide interpretation of
the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity results (to identify cases where more testing is warranted,
possibly with alternate conﬁgurations). Fostering the development of protocol support for this
Metric and Method of Measurement is also a goal of this memo (all active testing protocols
currently deﬁned by the IPPM WG are UDP based, meeting a key requirement of these methods).
The supporting protocol development to measure this metric according to the speciﬁed method is
a key future contribution to Internet measurement.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

The load rate adjustment algorithm's scope is limited to helping determine the Maximum IP-Layer
Capacity in the context of an infrequent, diagnostic, short-term measurement. It is
RECOMMENDED
resources while testing: measurements may not be accurate, and throughput of competing elastic
traﬃc may be greatly reduced.

 to discontinue non-measurement traﬃc that shares a subscriber's dedicated

The primary application of the Metrics and Methods of Measurement described here is the same
, where:
as what is described in

Section 2 of [RFC7497]

The access portion of the network is the focus of this problem statement. The user
typically subscribes to a service with bidirectional [Internet] access partly described by
rates in bits per second.

In addition, the use of the load rate adjustment algorithm described in Section 8.1 has the
following additional applicability limitations:

•  MUST

It
described in this memo.

 only be used in the application of diagnostic and operations measurements as

•  MUST

It

 only be used in circumstances consistent with Section 10 ("Security Considerations").

•

If a network operator is certain of the IP-Layer Capacity to be validated, then testing
start with a ﬁxed-rate test at the IP-Layer Capacity and avoid activating the load adjustment
algorithm. However, the stimulus for a diagnostic test (such as a subscriber request) strongly
implies that there is no certainty, and the load adjustment algorithm is

.
RECOMMENDED

MAY

Further, the Metrics and Methods of Measurement are intended for use where speciﬁc exact path
information is unknown within a range of possible values:

•

The subscriber's exact Maximum IP-Layer Capacity is unknown (which is sometimes the case;
service rates can be increased due to upgrades without a subscriber's request or increased to
provide a surplus to compensate for possible underestimates of TCP-based testing).

•

The size of the bottleneck buﬀer is unknown.

Finally, the measurement system's load rate adjustment algorithm
the exact capacity value to be validated a priori. This restriction fosters a fair result and removes
an opportunity for nefarious operation enabled by knowledge of the correct answer.

 be provided with

SHALL NOT

3.  Motivation

As with any problem that has been worked on for many years in various SDOs without any
special attempts at coordination, various solutions for Metrics and Methods have emerged.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

There are ﬁve factors that have changed (or began to change) in the 2013-2019 time frame, and
the presence of any one of them on the path requires features in the measurement design to
account for the changes:

1.

Internet access is no longer the bottleneck for many users (but subscribers expect network
providers to honor contracted performance).

2.

Both transfer rate and latency are important to a user's satisfaction.

3.

UDP's role in transport is growing in areas where TCP once dominated.

4.

Content and applications are moving physically closer to users.

5.

There is less emphasis on ISP gateway measurements, possibly due to less traﬃc crossing ISP
gateways in the future.

4.  General Parameters and Deﬁnitions

This section lists the

REQUIRED

 input factors to specify a Sender or Receiver metric.

Src:

One of the addresses of a host (such as a globally routable IP address).

Dst:

One of the addresses of a host (such as a globally routable IP address).

MaxHops:

The limit on the number of Hops a speciﬁc packet may visit as it traverses from the

host at Src to the host at Dst (implemented in the TTL or Hop Limit).

T0:

The time at the start of a measurement interval, when packets are ﬁrst transmitted from the

Source.

I:

The nominal duration of a measurement interval at the Destination (default 10 sec).

dt:

The nominal duration of m equal sub-intervals in I at the Destination (default 1 sec).

dtn:

The beginning boundary of a speciﬁc sub-interval, n, one of m sub-intervals in I.

FT:

The feedback time interval between status feedback messages communicating

measurement results, sent from the Receiver to control the Sender. The results are evaluated
throughout the test to determine how to adjust the current oﬀered load rate at the Sender
(default 50 msec).

Tmax:

A maximum waiting time for test packets to arrive at the Destination, set suﬃciently
long to disambiguate packets with long delays from packets that are discarded (lost), such that
the distribution of one-way delay is not truncated.

F:

The number of diﬀerent ﬂows synthesized by the method (default one ﬂow).

Flow:

The stream of packets with the same n-tuple of designated header ﬁelds that (when held
constant) result in identical treatment in a multipath decision (such as the decision taken in
load balancing). Note: The IPv6 ﬂow label
SHOULD
routers have complied with the guidelines provided in

 be included in the ﬂow deﬁnition when

[RFC6438]

.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

Type-P:

The complete description of the test packets for which this assessment applies
(including the ﬂow-deﬁning ﬁelds). Note that the UDP transport layer is one requirement for
test packets speciﬁed below. Type-P is a concept parallel to "population of interest" as deﬁned
in Clause 6.1.1 of

[Y.1540]

.

Payload Content:

An aspect of the Type-P Parameter that can help to improve measurement

determinism. Specifying packet payload content helps to ensure IPPM Framework-
conforming Metrics and Methods. If there is payload compression in the path and tests intend
 be
to characterize a possible advantage due to compression, then payload content
supplied by a pseudorandom sequence generator, by using part of a compressed ﬁle, or by
other means. See

Section 3.1.2 of [RFC7312]

SHOULD

.

PM:

A list of fundamental metrics, such as loss, delay, and reordering, and corresponding target
performance threshold(s). At least one fundamental metric and target performance threshold
MUST

 be supplied (such as one-way IP packet loss

 equal to zero).

[RFC7680]

A non-Parameter that is required for several metrics is deﬁned below:

T:

The host time of the ﬁrst test packet's arrival as measured at the Destination Measurement
Point, or MP(Dst). There may be other packets sent between Source and Destination hosts that
are excluded, so this is the time of arrival of the ﬁrst packet used for measurement of the
metric.

Note that timestamp format and resolution, sequence numbers, etc. will be established by the
chosen test protocol standard or implementation.

5.  IP-Layer Capacity Singleton Metric Deﬁnitions

This section sets requirements for the Singleton metric that supports the Maximum IP-Layer
Capacity Metric deﬁnitions in Section 6.

5.1.  Formal Name

"Type-P-One-way-IP-Capacity" is the formal name; it is informally called "IP-Layer Capacity".

Note that Type-P depends on the chosen method.

5.2.  Parameters

This section lists the

REQUIRED

 input factors to specify the metric, beyond those listed in Section 4.

No additional Parameters are needed.

5.3.  Metric Deﬁnitions

This section deﬁnes the
otherwise indicated) for measurements between speciﬁed Source and Destination hosts:

 aspects of the measurable IP-Layer Capacity Metric (unless

REQUIRED

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

Deﬁne the IP-Layer Capacity, C(T,dt,PM), to be the number of IP-Layer bits (including header and
data ﬁelds) in packets that can be transmitted from the Src host and correctly received by the Dst
host during one contiguous sub-interval, dt in length. The IP-Layer Capacity depends on the Src
and Dst hosts, the host addresses, and the path between the hosts.

The number of these IP-Layer bits is designated n0[dtn,dtn+1] for a speciﬁc dt.

When the packet size is known and of ﬁxed size, the packet count during a single sub-interval dt
multiplied by the total bits in IP header and data ﬁelds is equal to n0[dtn,dtn+1].

Anticipating a Sample of Singletons, the number of sub-intervals with duration dt
natural number m, so that T+I = T + m*dt with dtn+1 - dtn = dt for 1 <= n <= m.

MUST

 be set to a

SHALL

Parameter PM represents other performance metrics (see Section 5.4 below); their measurement
results
corresponding dtn for further evaluation and reporting. Users
Tmax as required by each metric's reference deﬁnition.

 be collected during measurement of IP-Layer Capacity and associated with the
 specify the Parameter

SHALL

Mathematically, this deﬁnition is represented as (for each n):

                 ( n0[dtn,dtn+1] )
 C(T,dt,PM) = -------------------------
                        dt

Figure 1: Equation for IP-Layer Capacity

and:

•

n0 is the total number of IP-Layer header and payload bits that can be transmitted in
standard-formed packets
during one contiguous sub-interval, dt in length, during the interval [T,T+I].

 from the Src host and correctly received by the Dst host

[RFC8468]

•

C(T,dt,PM), the IP-Layer Capacity, corresponds to the value of n0 measured in any sub-interval
beginning at dtn, divided by the length of the sub-interval, dt.

•

PM represents other performance metrics (see Section 5.4 below); their measurement results
 be collected during measurement of IP-Layer Capacity and associated with the
SHALL
corresponding dtn for further evaluation and reporting.

•

All sub-intervals
intervals allows for a simple implementation.

MUST

 be of equal duration. Choosing dt as non-overlapping consecutive time

•

The bit rate of the physical interface of the measurement devices
smallest of the links on the path whose C(T,I,PM) is to be measured (the bottleneck link).

 be higher than the

MUST

Measurements according to this deﬁnition
packets are speciﬁed in
Source port or equivalent technique, and
matching the test packet Destination address.

Section 5 of [RFC8468]

SHALL

 use the UDP transport layer. Standard-formed

. The measurement

SHOULD
 send responses from the Source address

 use a randomized

SHOULD

Some eﬀects of compression on measurement are discussed in

Section 6 of [RFC8468]

.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

5.4.  Related Round-Trip Delay and One-Way Loss Deﬁnitions

RTD[dtn,dtn+1] is deﬁned as a Sample of the Round-Trip Delay
and the Dst host during the interval [T,T+I] (that contains equal non-overlapping intervals of dt).
The "reasonable period of time" mentioned in
statistics used to summarize RTD[dtn,dtn+1]
mean, and the range = (maximum - minimum). Some of these statistics are needed for load
adjustment purposes (Section 8.1), measurement qualiﬁcation (Section 8.2), and reporting
(Section 9).

 include the minimum, maximum, median,

 is the Parameter Tmax in this memo. The

 between the Src host

[RFC2681]

[RFC2681]

MAY

 between the Src host and
OWL[dtn,dtn+1] is deﬁned as a Sample of the One-Way Loss
the Dst host during the interval [T,T+I] (that contains equal non-overlapping intervals of dt). The
statistics used to summarize OWL[dtn,dtn+1]
 include the count of lost packets and the ratio
MAY
of lost packets.

[RFC7680]

Other metrics

MAY

 be measured: one-way reordering, duplication, and delay variation.

5.5.  Discussion

See the corresponding section for Maximum IP-Layer Capacity (Section 6.5).

5.6.  Reporting the Metric

The IP-Layer Capacity
Megabits per second (Mbps) (which, to avoid any confusion, is 1,000,000 bits per second).

 be reported with at least single-Megabit resolution, in units of

SHOULD

The related One-Way Loss metric and Round-Trip Delay measurements for the same Singleton
SHALL

 be reported, also with meaningful resolution for the values measured.

Individual Capacity measurements
IP-Layer Capacity; see Section 9.

MAY

 be reported in a manner consistent with the Maximum

6.  Maximum IP-Layer Capacity Metric Deﬁnitions (Statistics)

This section sets requirements for the following components to support the Maximum IP-Layer
Capacity Metric.

6.1.  Formal Name

"Type-P-One-way-Max-IP-Capacity" is the formal name; it is informally called "Maximum IP-
Layer Capacity".

Note that Type-P depends on the chosen method.

6.2.  Parameters

This section lists the

REQUIRED

 input factors to specify the metric, beyond those listed in Section 4.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

No additional Parameters or deﬁnitions are needed.

6.3.  Metric Deﬁnitions

This section deﬁnes the
otherwise indicated) for measurements between speciﬁed Source and Destination hosts:

 aspects of the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity Metric (unless

REQUIRED

Deﬁne the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity, Maximum_C(T,I,PM), to be the maximum number of IP-
Layer bits n0[dtn,dtn+1] divided by dt that can be transmitted in packets from the Src host and
correctly received by the Dst host, over all dt-length intervals in [T,T+I] and meeting the PM
criteria. An equivalent deﬁnition would be the maximum of a Sample of size m of Singletons
C(T,I,PM) collected during the interval [T,T+I] and meeting the PM criteria.

The number of sub-intervals with duration dt
m*dt with dtn+1 - dtn = dt for 1 <= n <= m.

MUST

 be set to a natural number m, so that T+I = T +

Parameter PM represents the other performance metrics (see Section 6.4 below) and their
measurement results for the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity. At least one target performance
threshold (PM criterion)
 be deﬁned. If more than one metric and target performance
threshold is deﬁned, then the sub-interval with the maximum number of bits transmitted
meet all the target performance thresholds. Users
by each metric's reference deﬁnition.

SHALL

MUST

 specify the Parameter Tmax as required

MUST

Mathematically, this deﬁnition can be represented as:

                        max  ( n0[dtn,dtn+1] )
                        [T,T+I]
  Maximum_C(T,I,PM) = -------------------------
                                 dt

  where:

    T                                      T+I
    _________________________________________
    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
dtn=1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  n+1
                                       n=m

Figure 2: Equation for Maximum Capacity

and:

•

n0 is the total number of IP-Layer header and payload bits that can be transmitted in
standard-formed packets from the Src host and correctly received by the Dst host during one
contiguous sub-interval, dt in length, during the interval [T,T+I].

•

Maximum_C(T,I,PM), the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity, corresponds to the maximum value of
n0 measured in any sub-interval beginning at dtn, divided by the constant length of all sub-
intervals, dt.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

•

PM represents the other performance metrics (see Section 6.4) and their measurement results
for the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity. At least one target performance threshold (PM criterion)
MUST

 be deﬁned.

•

All sub-intervals
intervals allows for a simple implementation.

MUST

 be of equal duration. Choosing dt as non-overlapping consecutive time

•

The bit rate of the physical interface of the measurement systems
smallest of the links on the path whose Maximum_C(T,I,PM) is to be measured (the bottleneck
link).

 be higher than the

MUST

In this deﬁnition, the m sub-intervals can be viewed as trials when the Src host varies the
transmitted packet rate, searching for the maximum n0 that meets the PM criteria measured at
the Dst host in a test of duration I. When the transmitted packet rate is held constant at the Src
host, the m sub-intervals may also be viewed as trials to evaluate the stability of n0 and metric(s)
in the PM list over all dt-length intervals in I.

Measurements according to these deﬁnitions

SHALL

 use the UDP transport layer.

6.4.  Related Round-Trip Delay and One-Way Loss Deﬁnitions

RTD[dtn,dtn+1] and OWL[dtn,dtn+1] are deﬁned in Section 5.4. Here, the test intervals are
increased to match the capacity Samples, RTD[T,I] and OWL[T,I].

The interval dtn,dtn+1 where Maximum_C(T,I,PM) occurs is the reporting sub-interval for
RTD[dtn,dtn+1] and OWL[dtn,dtn+1] within RTD[T,I] and OWL[T,I].

Other metrics

MAY

 be measured: one-way reordering, duplication, and delay variation.

6.5.  Discussion

If traﬃc conditioning (e.g., shaping, policing) applies along a path for which Maximum_C(T,I,PM)
 be picked and measurements executed during
is to be determined, diﬀerent values for dt
 be chosen so that it is an integer multiple of
multiple intervals [T,T+I]. Each duration dt
SHOULD
increasing values k times serialization delay of a Path MTU (PMTU) at the physical interface
speed where traﬃc conditioning is expected. This should avoid taking conﬁgured burst tolerance
Singletons as a valid Maximum_C(T,I,PM) result.

SHOULD

A Maximum_C(T,I,PM) without any indication of bottleneck congestion, be that increased latency,
packet loss, or Explicit Congestion Notiﬁcation (ECN) marks during a measurement interval, I, is
likely an underestimate of Maximum_C(T,I,PM).

6.6.  Reporting the Metric

The IP-Layer Capacity
Megabits per second (Mbps) (which, to avoid any confusion, is 1,000,000 bits per second).

 be reported with at least single-Megabit resolution, in units of

SHOULD

The related One-Way Loss metric and Round-Trip Delay measurements for the same Singleton
SHALL

 be reported, also with meaningful resolution for the values measured.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

SHALL

 be reported for each mode, along with the relative time from the beginning

When there are demonstrated and repeatable Capacity modes in the Sample, the Maximum IP-
Layer Capacity
of the stream that the mode was observed to be present. Bimodal Maximum IP-Layer Capacities
have been observed with some services, sometimes called a "turbo mode" intending to deliver
short transfers more quickly or reduce the initial buﬀering time for some video streams. Note that
modes lasting less than duration dt will not be detected.

Some transmission technologies have multiple methods of operation that may be activated when
channel conditions degrade or improve, and these transmission methods may determine the
Maximum IP-Layer Capacity. Examples include line-of-sight microwave modulator
constellations, or cellular modem technologies where the changes may be initiated by a user
moving from one coverage area to another. Operation in the diﬀerent transmission methods
may be observed over time, but the modes of Maximum IP-Layer Capacity will not be activated
deterministically as with the "turbo mode" described in the paragraph above.

7.  IP-Layer Sender Bit Rate Singleton Metric Deﬁnitions

This section sets requirements for the following components to support the IP-Layer Sender Bit
Rate Metric. This metric helps to check that the Sender actually generated the desired rates during
a test, and measurement takes place at the interface between the Src host and the network path
(or as close as practical within the Src host). It is not a metric for path performance.

7.1.  Formal Name

"Type-P-IP-Sender-Bit-Rate" is the formal name; it is informally called the "IP-Layer Sender Bit
Rate".

Note that Type-P depends on the chosen method.

7.2.  Parameters

This section lists the

REQUIRED

 input factors to specify the metric, beyond those listed in Section 4.

S:

The duration of the measurement interval at the Source.

st:

The nominal duration of N sub-intervals in S (default st = 0.05 seconds).

stn:

The beginning boundary of a speciﬁc sub-interval, n, one of N sub-intervals in S.

 be longer than I, primarily to account for on-demand activation of the path, or any

SHALL

S
preamble to testing required, and the delay of the path.

SHOULD

 be much smaller than the sub-interval dt and on the same order as FT; otherwise, the

st
rate measurement will include many rate adjustments and include more time smoothing,
possibly smoothing the interval that contains the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity (and therefore
losing relevance). The st Parameter does not have relevance when the Source is transmitting at a
ﬁxed rate throughout S.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

7.3.  Metric Deﬁnition

This section deﬁnes the
indicated) for measurements at the speciﬁed Source on packets addressed for the intended
Destination host and matching the required Type-P:

 aspects of the IP-Layer Sender Bit Rate Metric (unless otherwise

REQUIRED

Deﬁne the IP-Layer Sender Bit Rate, B(S,st), to be the number of IP-Layer bits (including header
and data ﬁelds) that are transmitted from the Source with address pair Src and Dst during one
contiguous sub-interval, st, during the test interval S (where S
 be longer than I) and where
the ﬁxed-size packet count during that single sub-interval st also provides the number of IP-Layer
bits in any interval, [stn,stn+1].

SHALL

Measurements according to this deﬁnition
from the Dst host to the Src host received by the Src host during an interval [stn,stn+1]
NOT
adjustment occurs on st interval boundaries).

 result in an adaptation of the Src host traﬃc conditioning during this interval (rate

 use the UDP transport layer. Any feedback

SHALL

SHOULD

7.4.  Discussion

Both the Sender and Receiver (or Source and Destination) bit rates
an IP-Layer Capacity measurement. Otherwise, an unexpected sending rate limitation could
produce an erroneous Maximum IP-Layer Capacity measurement.

SHOULD

 be assessed as part of

7.5.  Reporting the Metric

The IP-Layer Sender Bit Rate
per second (which, to avoid any confusion, is 1,000,000 bits per second).

SHALL

 be reported with meaningful resolution, in units of Megabits

Individual IP-Layer Sender Bit Rate measurements are discussed further in Section 9.

8.  Method of Measurement

REQUIRED

 per the architecture of the method that two cooperating hosts operate in the roles

It is
of Src (test packet Sender) and Dst (Receiver) with a measured path and return path between
them.

The duration of a test, Parameter I,
 be constrained in a production network, since this is an
active test method and it will likely cause congestion on the path from the Src host to the Dst host
during a test.

MUST

8.1.  Load Rate Adjustment Algorithm

The algorithm described in this section
Algorithm (CCA). As stated in Section 2 ("Scope, Goals, and Applicability"), the load rate
adjustment algorithm's goal is to help determine the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity in the context
of an infrequent, diagnostic, short-term measurement. There is a trade-oﬀ between test duration

 be used as a general Congestion Control

MUST NOT

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

(also the test data volume) and algorithm aggressiveness (speed of ramp-up and ramp-down to
the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity). The Parameter values chosen below strike a well-tested
balance among these factors.

SHALL

 be pre-built (by the test administrator), deﬁning all the oﬀered load rates that will

 that rates begin with 0.5 Mbps at index zero, use 1 Mbps at index one, and then
RECOMMENDED
. A

A table
be supported (R1 through Rn, in ascending order, corresponding to indexed rows in the table). It is
RECOMMENDED
continue in 1 Mbps increments to 1 Gbps. Above 1 Gbps, and up to 10 Gbps, it is
that 100 Mbps increments be used. Above 10 Gbps, increments of 1 Gbps are
higher initial IP-Layer Sender Bit Rate might be conﬁgured when the test operator is certain that
the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity is well above the initial IP-Layer Sender Bit Rate and factors such
as test duration and total test traﬃc play an important role. The sending rate table
bracket the Maximum Capacity where it will make measurements, including constrained rates
less than 500 kbps if applicable.

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

Each rate is deﬁned as datagrams of size ss, sent as a burst of count cc, each time interval tt (the
default for tt is 100 microsec, a likely system tick interval). While it is advantageous to use
datagrams of as large a size as possible, it may be prudent to use a slightly smaller maximum that
allows for secondary protocol headers and/or tunneling without resulting in IP-Layer
fragmentation. Selection of a new rate is indicated by a calculation on the current row, Rx. For
example:

"Rx+1":

The Sender uses the next-higher rate in the table.

"Rx-10":

The Sender uses the rate 10 rows lower in the table.

At the beginning of a test, the Sender begins sending at rate R1 and the Receiver starts a feedback
timer of duration FT (while awaiting inbound datagrams). As datagrams are received, they are
checked for sequence number anomalies (loss, out-of-order, duplication, etc.) and the delay range
is measured (one-way or round-trip). This information is accumulated until the feedback timer FT
expires and a status feedback message is sent from the Receiver back to the Sender, to
communicate this information. The accumulated statistics are then reset by the Receiver for the
next feedback interval. As feedback messages are received back at the Sender, they are evaluated
to determine how to adjust the current oﬀered load rate (Rx).

If the feedback indicates that no sequence number anomalies were detected AND the delay range
was below the lower threshold, the oﬀered load rate is increased. If congestion has not been
conﬁrmed up to this point (see below for the method for declaring congestion), the oﬀered load
rate is increased by more than one rate setting (e.g., Rx+10). This allows the oﬀered load to quickly
reach a near-maximum rate. Conversely, if congestion has been previously conﬁrmed, the oﬀered
load rate is only increased by one (Rx+1). However, if a rate threshold above a high sending rate
(such as 1 Gbps) is exceeded, the oﬀered load rate is only increased by one (Rx+1) in any
congestion state.

If the feedback indicates that sequence number anomalies were detected OR the delay range was
 threshold values
above the upper threshold, the oﬀered load rate is decreased. The
are 10 for sequence number gaps and 30 msec for lower and 90 msec for upper delay thresholds,

RECOMMENDED

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

respectively. Also, if congestion is now conﬁrmed for the ﬁrst time by the current feedback
message being processed, then the oﬀered load rate is decreased by more than one rate setting
(e.g., Rx-30). This one-time reduction is intended to compensate for the fast initial ramp-up. In all
other cases, the oﬀered load rate is only decreased by one (Rx-1).

If the feedback indicates that there were no sequence number anomalies AND the delay range
was above the lower threshold but below the upper threshold, the oﬀered load rate is not changed.
This allows time for recent changes in the oﬀered load rate to stabilize and for the feedback to
represent current conditions more accurately.

Lastly, the method for inferring congestion is that there were sequence number anomalies AND/
OR the delay range was above the upper threshold for three consecutive feedback intervals. The
algorithm described above is also illustrated in Annex B of ITU-T Recommendation Y.1540, 2020
version
 and is implemented in Appendix A ("Load Rate Adjustment Pseudocode") in this
memo.

[Y.1540]

The load rate adjustment algorithm
streams cease unexpectedly. The timeout thresholds are provided in Table 1, along with values for
all other Parameters and variables described in this section. Operations of non-obvious
Parameters appear below:

 include timers that stop the test when received packet

MUST

load packet timeout:

The load packet timeout
received. If the timeout expires, the Receiver

SHALL

 be reset to the conﬁgured value each time a load packet is

SHALL

 be closed and no further feedback sent.

feedback message timeout:

The feedback message timeout
message is received. If the timeout expires, the Sender
packets sent.

SHALL

 be reset to the conﬁgured value each time a feedback
 be closed and no further load

SHALL

Parameter

Default

Tested
Range or
Values

Expected Safe Range (not entirely
tested, other values
)
RECOMMENDED

NOT

FT, feedback time
interval

50 msec

20 msec, 50
msec, 100
msec

20 msec <= FT <= 250 msec; larger values
may slow the rate increase and fail to
ﬁnd the max

Feedback
message timeout
(stop test)

L*FT, L=20 (1
sec with
FT=50 msec)

L=100 with
FT=50 msec
(5 sec)

0.5 sec <= L*FT <= 30 sec; upper limit for
very unreliable test paths only

Load packet
timeout (stop
test)

1 sec

5 sec

0.250-30 sec; upper limit for very
unreliable test paths only

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

Parameter

Default

Tested
Range or
Values

Expected Safe Range (not entirely
tested, other values
)
RECOMMENDED

NOT

Table index 0

0.5 Mbps

0.5 Mbps

When testing <= 10 Gbps

Table index 1

1 Mbps

1 Mbps

When testing <= 10 Gbps

Table index (step)
size

1 Mbps

Table index (step)
size, rate > 1 Gbps

100 Mbps

Same as tested

Same as tested

1 Mbps <=
rate <= 1
Gbps

1 Gbps <=
rate <= 10
Gbps

1 Gbps

Untested

>10 Gbps

Table index (step)
size, rate > 10
Gbps

ss, UDP payload
size, bytes

None

<=1222

cc, burst count

None

1 <= cc <= 100

Recommend max at largest value that
avoids fragmentation; using a payload
size that is too small might result in
unexpected Sender limitations

Same as tested. Vary cc as needed to
create the desired maximum sending
rate. Sender buﬀer size may limit cc in
the implementation

Available range of "tick" values (HZ
param)

Same as tested

Same as tested

0, 1, 5, 10, 100

Same as tested

2, 3, 4, 5

Use values >1 to avoid misinterpreting
transient loss

100
microsec, 1
msec

5 msec, 30
msec

10 msec, 90
msec

tt, burst interval

100 microsec

Low delay range
threshold

30 msec

High delay range
threshold

90 msec

Sequence error
threshold

Consecutive
errored status
report threshold

10

3

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

Parameter

Default

Tested
Range or
Values

Expected Safe Range (not entirely
tested, other values
)
RECOMMENDED

NOT

Fast mode
increase, in table
index steps

Fast mode
decrease, in table
index steps

10

10

2 <= steps <= 30

3 * Fast mode
increase

3 * Fast
mode
increase

Same as tested

Table 1: Parameters for Load Rate Adjustment Algorithm

As a consequence of default parameterization, the Number of table steps in total for rates less
than 10 Gbps is 1090 (excluding index 0).

A related Sender backoﬀ response to network conditions occurs when one or more status
feedback messages fail to arrive at the Sender.

If no status feedback messages arrive at the Sender for the interval greater than the Lost Status
Backoﬀ timeout:

           UDRT + (2+w)*FT = Lost Status Backoff timeout

   where:

   UDRT = upper delay range threshold (default 90 msec)
   FT   = feedback time interval (default 50 msec)
   w    = number of repeated timeouts (w=0 initially, w++ on each
          timeout, and reset to 0 when a message is received)

Beginning when the last message (of any type) was successfully received at the Sender:

SHALL

 then be decreased, following the same process as when the feedback

The oﬀered load
indicates the presence of one or more sequence number anomalies OR the delay range was above
the upper threshold (as described above), with the same load rate adjustment algorithm variables
in their current state. This means that lost status feedback messages OR sequence errors OR delay
variation can result in rate reduction and congestion conﬁrmation.

RECOMMENDED

 initial value for w is 0, taking a Round-Trip Time (RTT) of less than FT into

The
account. A test with an RTT longer than FT is a valid reason to increase the initial value of w
appropriately. Variable w
timeout is exceeded. So, with FT = 50 msec and UDRT = 90 msec, a status feedback message loss
would be declared at 190 msec following a successful message, again at 50 msec after that (240
msec total), and so on.

 be incremented by one whenever the Lost Status Backoﬀ

SHALL

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

Also, if congestion is now conﬁrmed for the ﬁrst time by a Lost Status Backoﬀ timeout, then the
oﬀered load rate is decreased by more than one rate setting (e.g., Rx-30). This one-time reduction
is intended to compensate for the fast initial ramp-up. In all other cases, the oﬀered load rate is
only decreased by one (Rx-1).

[RFC8085]
Appendix B discusses compliance with the applicable mandatory requirements of
,
consistent with the goals of the IP-Layer Capacity Metric and Method, including the load rate
adjustment algorithm described in this section.

8.2.  Measurement Qualiﬁcation or Veriﬁcation

It is of course necessary to calibrate the equipment performing the IP-Layer Capacity
measurement, to ensure that the expected capacity can be measured accurately and that
equipment choices (processing speed, interface bandwidth, etc.) are suitably matched to the
measurement range.

When assessing a maximum rate as the metric speciﬁes, artiﬁcially high (optimistic) values might
be measured until some buﬀer on the path is ﬁlled. Other causes include bursts of back-to-back
packets with idle intervals delivered by a path, while the measurement interval (dt) is small and
aligned with the bursts. The artiﬁcial values might result in an unsustainable Maximum Capacity
observed when the Method of Measurement is searching for the maximum, and that would not
do. This situation is diﬀerent from the bimodal service rates (discussed in "Reporting the Metric",
Section 6.6), which are characterized by a multi-second duration (much longer than the measured
RTT) and repeatable behavior.

There are many ways that the Method of Measurement could handle this false-max issue. The
default value for measurement of Singletons (dt = 1 second) has proven to be of practical value
during tests of this method, allows the bimodal service rates to be characterized, and has an
obvious alignment with the reporting units (Mbps).

Section 24 of [RFC2544]

Another approach comes from
relatively short trials conducted as part of the search are followed by longer trials to make the
ﬁnal determination. In the production network, measurements of Singletons and Samples (the
terms for trials and tests of Lab Benchmarking) must be limited in duration because they may
aﬀect service. But there is suﬃcient value in repeating a Sample with a ﬁxed sending rate
determined by the previous search for the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity, to qualify the result in
terms of the other performance metrics measured at the same time.

 and its discussion of trial duration, where

A Qualiﬁcation measurement for the search result is a subsequent measurement, sending at a
ﬁxed 99.x percent of the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity for I, or an indeﬁnite period. The same
Maximum Capacity Metric is applied, and the Qualiﬁcation for the result is a Sample without
supra-threshold packet losses or a growing minimum delay trend in subsequent Singletons (or
each dt of the measurement interval, I). Samples exhibiting supra-threshold packet losses or
increasing queue occupation require a repeated search and/or test at a reduced ﬁxed Sender rate
for Qualiﬁcation.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

Here, as with any Active Capacity test, the test duration must be kept short. Ten-second tests for
each direction of transmission are common today. The default measurement interval speciﬁed
here is I = 10 seconds. The combination of a fast and congestion-aware search method and user-
network coordination makes a unique contribution to production testing. The Maximum IP
Capacity Metric and Method for assessing performance is very diﬀerent from the classic
Throughput Metric and Methods provided in
that are sensitive to loss and delay, similar to other congestion control algorithms used on the
Internet every day, along with limited duration. On the other hand, Throughput measurements
 can produce sustained overload conditions for extended periods of time. Individual
[RFC2544]
trials in a test governed by a binary search can last 60 seconds for each step, and the ﬁnal
conﬁrmation trial may be even longer. This is very diﬀerent from "normal" traﬃc levels, but
overload conditions are not a concern in the isolated test environment. The concerns raised in
[RFC6815]
networks, and instead the authors challenged the standards community to develop Metrics and
Methods like those described in this memo.

: it uses near-real-time load adjustments

 were that the methods discussed in

 would be let loose on production

[RFC2544]

[RFC2544]

8.3.  Measurement Considerations

In general, the widespread measurements that this memo encourages will encounter widespread
behaviors. The bimodal IP Capacity behaviors already discussed in Section 6.6 are good examples.

RECOMMENDED

In general, it is
 to locate test endpoints as close to the intended measured link(s)
as practical (for reasons of scale, this is not always possible; there is a limit on the number of test
endpoints coming from many perspectives -- for example, management and measurement
traﬃc). The testing operator
path length. This Parameter can keep measurement traﬃc from straying too far beyond the
intended path.

 set a value for the MaxHops Parameter, based on the expected

MUST

The measured path may be stateful based on many factors, and the Parameter "Time of day"
when a test starts may not be enough information. Repeatable testing may require knowledge of
the time from the beginning of a measured ﬂow -- and how the ﬂow is constructed, including how
much traﬃc has already been sent on that ﬂow when a state change is observed -- because the
state change may be based on time, bytes sent, or both. Both load packets and status feedback
messages
packets.

 contain sequence numbers; this helps with measurements based on those

MUST

Many diﬀerent types of traﬃc shapers and on-demand communications access technologies may
be encountered, as anticipated in
, and play a key role in measurement results. Methods
MUST
communications access and to discard the preamble from subsequent test results.

 be prepared to provide a short preamble transmission to activate on-demand

[RFC7312]

The following conditions might be encountered during measurement, where packet losses may
occur independently of the measurement sending rate:

1.

Congestion of an interconnection or backbone interface may appear as packet losses
distributed over time in the test stream, due to much-higher-rate interfaces in the backbone.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

2.

Packet loss due to the use of Random Early Detection (RED) or other active queue
management may or may not aﬀect the measurement ﬂow if competing background traﬃc
(other ﬂows) is simultaneously present.

3.

There may be only a small delay variation independent of the sending rate under these
conditions as well.

4.

Persistent competing traﬃc on measurement paths that include shared transmission media
may cause random packet losses in the test stream.

It is possible to mitigate these conditions using the ﬂexibility of the load rate adjustment
algorithm described in Section 8.1 above (tuning speciﬁc Parameters).

If the measurement ﬂow burst duration happens to be on the order of or smaller than the burst
size of a shaper or a policer in the path, then the line rate might be measured rather than the
bandwidth limit imposed by the shaper or policer. If this condition is suspected, alternate
conﬁgurations

 be used.

SHOULD

In general, results depend on the sending stream's characteristics; the measurement community
has known this for a long time and needs to keep it foremost in mind. Although the default is a
single ﬂow (F=1) for testing, the use of multiple ﬂows may be advantageous for the following
reasons:

1.

The test hosts may be able to create a higher load than with a single ﬂow, or parallel test hosts
may be used to generate one ﬂow each.

2.

Link aggregation may be present (ﬂow-based load balancing), and multiple ﬂows are needed
to occupy each member of the aggregate.

3.

Internet access policies may limit the IP-Layer Capacity depending on the Type-P of the
packets, possibly reserving capacity for various stream types.

Each ﬂow would be controlled using its own implementation of the load rate adjustment (search)
algorithm.

It is obviously counterproductive to run more than one independent and concurrent test
(regardless of the number of ﬂows in the test stream) attempting to measure the maximum
capacity on a single path. The number of concurrent, independent tests of a path
 be
limited to one.

SHALL

Tests of a v4-v6 transition mechanism might well be the intended subject of a capacity test. As
long as both IPv4 packets and IPv6 packets sent/received are standard-formed, this should be
allowed (and the change in header size easily accounted for on a per-packet basis).

As testing continues, implementers should expect the methods to evolve. The ITU-T has published
a supplement (Supplement 60) to the Y-series of ITU-T Recommendations, "Interpreting ITU-T Y.
1540 maximum IP-layer capacity measurements"
testing with the metric. Those results have improved the methods described here.

, which is the result of continued

[Y.Sup60]

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

9.  Reporting Formats

The Singleton IP-Layer Capacity results
were measured.

SHOULD

 be accompanied by the context under which they

•

Timestamp (especially the time when the maximum was observed in dtn).

•

Source and Destination (by IP or other meaningful ID).

•

Other inner Parameters of the test case (Section 4).

•

Outer Parameters, such as "test conducted in motion" or other factors belonging to the
context of the measurement.

•

Result validity (indicating cases where the process was somehow interrupted or the attempt
failed).

•

A ﬁeld where unusual circumstances could be documented, and another one for "ignore /
mask out" purposes in further processing.

The Maximum IP-Layer Capacity results
a column that identiﬁes the test Phase. There
used in that Phase. The remaining columns
of all ﬂows, including the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity, the Loss Ratio, the RTT minimum, RTT
maximum, and other metrics tested having similar relevance.

SHOULD
 be a column listing the number of ﬂows
 report the following results for the aggregate

 be reported in tabular format. There

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

 be

As mentioned in Section 6.6, bimodal (or multi-modal) maxima
separately.

SHALL

 be reported for each mode

Phase

Number of
Flows

Maximum IP-Layer
Capacity (Mbps)

Search

Verify

1

1

967.31

966.00

Table 2: Maximum IP-Layer Capacity Results

Static and conﬁguration Parameters:

Loss
Ratio

0.0002

0.0000

RTT min
(msec)

RTT max
(msec)

30

30

58

38

The sub-interval time, dt,
well as the remaining Parameters from Section 4 ("General Parameters and Deﬁnitions").

 accompany a report of Maximum IP-Layer Capacity results, as

MUST

The PM list metrics corresponding to the sub-interval where the Maximum Capacity occurred
MUST

 accompany a report of Maximum IP-Layer Capacity results, for each test Phase.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

The IP-Layer Sender Bit Rate results
SHOULD
column that identiﬁes the test Phase. There
(numbered) ﬂow used in that Phase, or the aggregate of ﬂows in that Phase. A corresponding
column
ﬁnal column
SHOULD
aggregate of all ﬂows.

 be reported in tabular format. There
SHOULD

 report the IP-Layer Sender Bit Rate results for each ﬂow used, or the

 identify the speciﬁc sending rate sub-interval, stn, for each ﬂow and aggregate. A

 be a column listing each individual

SHOULD

SHOULD

 be a

Phase

Flow Number or Aggregate

stn (sec)

Sender Bit Rate (Mbps)

Search

Search

1

2

Search

Agg

Search

Search

1

...

0.00

0.00

0.00

0.05

0.05

345

289

634

499

...

Table 3: IP-Layer Sender Bit Rate Results (Example with Two Flows and st = 0.05
(sec))

Static and conﬁguration Parameters:

The sub-interval duration, st,

MUST

 accompany a report of Sender IP-Layer Bit Rate results.

Also, the values of the remaining Parameters from Section 4 ("General Parameters and
Deﬁnitions")

 be reported.

MUST

9.1.  Conﬁguration and Reporting Data Formats

As a part of the multi-Standards Development Organization (SDO) harmonization of this Metric
and Method of Measurement, one of the areas where the Broadband Forum (BBF) contributed its
expertise was in the deﬁnition of an information model and data model for conﬁguration and
reporting. These models are consistent with the metric Parameters and default values speciﬁed as
lists in this memo.
model in related BBF work. The BBF has also carefully considered topics within its purview, such
as the placement of measurement systems within the Internet access architecture. For example,
timestamp resolution requirements that inﬂuence the choice of the test protocol are provided in
Table 2 of

 provides the information model that was used to prepare a full data

[TR-471]

[TR-471]

.

10.  Security Considerations

Active Metrics and Active Measurements have a long history of security considerations. The
security considerations that apply to any Active Measurement of live paths are relevant here. See
[RFC4656]

[RFC5357]

 and

.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

When considering the privacy of those involved in measurement or those whose traﬃc is
measured, the sensitive information available to potential observers is greatly reduced when
using active techniques that are within this scope of work. Passive observations of user traﬃc for
measurement purposes raise many privacy issues. We refer the reader to the privacy
considerations described in the Large-scale Measurement of Broadband Performance (LMAP)
Framework

, which covers active and passive techniques.

[RFC7594]

There are some new considerations for Capacity measurement as described in this memo.

1.

Cooperating Source and Destination hosts and agreements to test the path between the hosts
are

. Hosts perform in either the Src role or the Dst role.

REQUIRED

2.

REQUIRED

 to have a user client-initiated setup handshake between cooperating hosts that

It is
allows ﬁrewalls to control inbound unsolicited UDP traﬃc that goes to either a control port
(expected and with authentication) or ephemeral ports that are only created as needed.
Firewalls protecting each host can both continue to do their job normally.

3.

Client-server authentication and integrity protection for feedback messages conveying
measurements are

.
RECOMMENDED

4.

Hosts
MUST
inaccurate results.

 limit the number of simultaneous tests to avoid resource exhaustion and

5.

MUST

 be rate limited. This can be accomplished using a pre-built table deﬁning all the

Senders
oﬀered load rates that will be supported (Section 8.1). The recommended load control search
algorithm results in "ramp-up" from the lowest rate in the table.

6.

Service subscribers with limited data volumes who conduct extensive capacity testing might
experience the eﬀects of Service Provider controls on their service. Testing with the Service
Provider's measurement hosts
traﬃc (for example, the range of duration values, I,

 be limited in frequency and/or overall volume of test
 be limited).

SHOULD

SHOULD

The exact speciﬁcation of these features is left for future protocol development.

11.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2330]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

, and
Paxson, V. Almes, G. Mahdavi, J.
,
Performance Metrics" RFC 2330 DOI 10.17487/RFC2330
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2330>

,

,

,

M. Mathis "Framework for IP

, May 1998,

<https://

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

[RFC2681]

[RFC4656]

[RFC4737]

[RFC5357]

[RFC6438]

[RFC7497]

[RFC7680]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8468]

Almes, G. Kalidindi, S.
RFC 2681 DOI 10.17487/RFC2681
info/rfc2681>
.

, and

,
,

,
, September 1999,

M. Zekauskas "A Round-trip Delay Metric for IPPM"
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Shalunov, S. Teitelbaum, B. Karp, A. Boote, J.
,
Active Measurement Protocol (OWAMP)" RFC 4656 DOI 10.17487/RFC4656
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4656>
September 2006,
.

M. Zekauskas "A One-way
,

, and

,

,

,

,

Morton, A. Ciavattone, L. Ramachandran, G. Shalunov, S.
,
Reordering Metrics" RFC 4737 DOI 10.17487/RFC4737
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4737>
.

,

,

,

, and
, November 2006,

J. Perser "Packet
,

<https://

,

J. Babiarz "A Two-Way
Hedayat, K. Krzanowski, R. Morton, A. Yum, K.
,
Active Measurement Protocol (TWAMP)" RFC 5357 DOI 10.17487/RFC5357
,
October 2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5357>
.

, and
,

,

,

,

 and

Carpenter, B.
,
Routing and Link Aggregation in Tunnels" RFC 6438 DOI 10.17487/RFC6438
November 2011,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6438>

S. Amante "Using the IPv6 Flow Label for Equal Cost Multipath

,

,

,

,

Morton, A. "Rate Measurement Test Protocol Problem Statement and
Requirements" RFC 7497 DOI 10.17487/RFC7497
.
editor.org/info/rfc7497>

, April 2015,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Almes, G. Kalidindi, S. Zekauskas, M.
A. Morton, Ed. "A One-Way Loss
,
Metric for IP Performance Metrics (IPPM)" STD 82 RFC 7680 DOI 10.17487/
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7680>
RFC7680

, January 2016,

, and

,

,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

Morton, A. Fabini, J. Elkins, N. Ackermann, M.
IPv4-IPv6 Coexistence: Updates for the IP Performance Metrics (IPPM)
,
Framework" RFC 8468 DOI 10.17487/RFC8468
.
editor.org/info/rfc8468>

, November 2018,

, and

,

,

,

V. Hegde "IPv4, IPv6, and

<https://www.rfc-

12.2.  Informative References

[copycat]

[LS-SG12-A]

,

Edeline, K. Kühlewind, M. Trammell, B.
Diﬀerential Treatment of New Transport Protocols in the Wild" ANRW '17 DOI
10.1145/3106328.3106330

.
<https://irtf.org/anrw/2017/anrw17-ﬁnal5.pdf>

B. Donnet "copycat: Testing

, July 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

"Liaison statement: LS - Harmonization of IP Capacity and Latency Parameters:
Revision of Draft Rec. Y.1540 on IP packet transfer performance parameters and
New Annex A with Lab Evaluation Plan" From ITU-T SG 12
<https://
,
datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1632/>
.

, March 2019,

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

[LS-SG12-B]

[RFC2544]

[RFC3148]

[RFC5136]

[RFC6815]

[RFC7312]

[RFC7594]

[RFC7799]

[RFC8085]

[RFC8337]

[TR-471]

[Y.1540]

"Liaison statement: LS on harmonization of IP Capacity and Latency
Parameters: Consent of Draft Rec. Y.1540 on IP packet transfer performance
parameters and New Annex A with Lab & Field Evaluation Plans" From ITU-T-
SG-12

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/liaison/1645/>
.

, May 2019,

,

J. McQuaid "Benchmarking Methodology for Network

 and

Bradner, S.
,
Interconnect Devices" RFC 2544 DOI 10.17487/RFC2544
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2544>
.

,

, March 1999,

<https://

 and

Mathis, M.
Capacity Metrics" RFC 3148 DOI 10.17487/RFC3148
editor.org/info/rfc3148>
.

M. Allman "A Framework for Deﬁning Empirical Bulk Transfer
<https://www.rfc-

, July 2001,

,

,

,

Chimento, P.
RFC5136

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5136>
.
, February 2008,

J. Ishac "Deﬁning Network Capacity" RFC 5136 DOI 10.17487/

 and

,

,

Bradner, S. Dubray, K. McQuaid, J.
, and
RFC 2544: Use on Production Networks Considered Harmful" RFC 6815 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6815>
10.17487/RFC6815
.

A. Morton "Applicability Statement for

, November 2012,

,

,

,

,

 and

Fabini, J.
Performance Metrics (IPPM)" RFC 7312 DOI 10.17487/RFC7312
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7312>
.

A. Morton "Advanced Stream and Sampling Framework for IP
, August 2014,

,

,

,

Eardley, P. Morton, A. Bagnulo, M. Burbridge, T. Aitken, P.
,
Framework for Large-Scale Measurement of Broadband Performance (LMAP)"
, September 2015,
RFC 7594 DOI 10.17487/RFC7594
.
info/rfc7594>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

A. Akhter "A

, and

,

,

,

,

,
Morton, A. "Active and Passive Metrics and Methods (with Hybrid Types In-
,
,
Between)" RFC 7799 DOI 10.17487/RFC7799
.
editor.org/info/rfc7799>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2016,

,

, and
Eggert, L. Fairhurst, G.
,
8085 DOI 10.17487/RFC8085
.
rfc8085>

,
G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
, March 2017,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

 and

Mathis, M.
,
RFC 8337 DOI 10.17487/RFC8337
.
rfc8337>

,

,
A. Morton "Model-Based Metrics for Bulk Transport Capacity"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2018,

,

Morton, A. "Maximum IP-Layer Capacity Metric, Related Metrics, and
, July 2020,
Measurements" Broadband Forum TR-471
.
forum.org/technical/download/TR-471.pdf>

,

<https://www.broadband-

,

ITU-T "Internet protocol data communication service - IP packet transfer and
,
,
availability performance parameters" ITU-T Recommendation Y.1540
December 2019,

.
<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-Y.1540-201912-I/en>

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

[Y.Sup60]

,

ITU-T "Interpreting ITU-T Y.1540 maximum IP-layer capacity measurements"
,
<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-
ITU-T Recommendation Y.Sup60
Y.Sup60/en>
.

, October 2021,

Appendix A.  Load Rate Adjustment Pseudocode

This appendix provides a pseudocode implementation of the algorithm described in Section 8.1.

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

Rx = 0              # The current sending rate (equivalent to a row
                    # of the table)

seqErr = 0          # Measured count that includes Loss or Reordering
                    # or Duplication impairments (all appear
                    # initially as errors in the packet sequence
                    # numbering)

seqErrThresh = 10   # Threshold on seqErr count that includes Loss or
                    # Reordering or Duplication impairments (all
                    # appear initially as errors in the packet
                    # sequence numbering)

delay = 0           # Measured Range of Round Trip Delay (RTD), msec

lowThresh = 30      # Low threshold on the Range of RTD, msec

upperThresh = 90    # Upper threshold on the Range of RTD, msec

hSpeedThresh = 1    # Threshold for transition between sending rate
                    # step sizes (such as 1 Mbps and 100 Mbps), Gbps

slowAdjCount = 0    # Measured Number of consecutive status reports
                    # indicating loss and/or delay variation above
                    # upperThresh

slowAdjThresh = 3   # Threshold on slowAdjCount used to infer
                    # congestion. Use values > 1 to avoid
                    # misinterpreting transient loss.

highSpeedDelta = 10 # The number of rows to move in a single
                    # adjustment when initially increasing offered
                    # load (to ramp up quickly)

maxLoadRates = 2000 # Maximum table index (rows)

if ( seqErr <= seqErrThresh && delay < lowThresh ) {
        if ( Rx < hSpeedThresh && slowAdjCount < slowAdjThresh ) {
                        Rx += highSpeedDelta;
                        slowAdjCount = 0;
        } else {
                        if ( Rx < maxLoadRates - 1 )
                                        Rx++;
        }
} else if ( seqErr > seqErrThresh || delay > upperThresh ) {
        slowAdjCount++;
        if ( Rx < hSpeedThresh && slowAdjCount == slowAdjThresh ) {
                        if ( Rx > highSpeedDelta * 3 )
                                        Rx -= highSpeedDelta * 3;
                        else
                                        Rx = 0;
        } else {
                        if ( Rx > 0 )
                                        Rx--;
        }
}

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

Appendix B.  RFC 8085 UDP Guidelines Check

Section 3.1 of [RFC8085]
congestion control. The guidelines appear in mandatory (
categories.

 (BCP 145), which provides UDP usage guidelines, focuses primarily on

MUST

) and recommendation (

)
SHOULD

B.1.  Assessment of Mandatory Requirements

The mandatory requirements in

Section 3 of [RFC8085]

 include the following:

Internet paths can have widely varying characteristics, ... Consequently, applications
that may be used on the Internet
characteristics. They
very diﬀerent path conditions. Typically, this requires conservatively probing the current
conditions of the Internet path they communicate over to establish a transmission
behavior that it can sustain and that is reasonably fair to other traﬃc sharing the path.

 instead use mechanisms that let them operate safely under

 make assumptions about speciﬁc path

MUST NOT

MUST

The purpose of the load rate adjustment algorithm described in Section 8.1 is to probe the network
and enable Maximum IP-Layer Capacity measurements with as few assumptions about the
measured path as possible and within the range of applications described in Section 2. There is
tension between the goals of probing conservatism and minimization of both the traﬃc
dedicated to testing (especially with Gigabit rate measurements) and the duration of the test
(which is one contributing factor to the overall algorithm fairness).

Section 3 of [RFC8085]

 goes on to recommend alternatives to UDP to meet the

The text of
mandatory requirements, but none are suitable for the scope and purpose of the Metrics and
Methods in this memo. In fact, ad hoc TCP-based methods fail to achieve the measurement
accuracy repeatedly proven in comparison measurements with the running code
[LS-SG12-B] [Y.Sup60]
modern Internet transmission where a transport protocol is required
based on the IP Layer, and UDP allows simple correlation to the IP Layer.

. Also, the UDP aspect of these methods is present primarily to support

; the metric is

[copycat]

[LS-SG12-A]

Section 3.1.1 of [RFC8085]

 discusses protocol timer guidelines:

Latency samples
example is in a protocol that retransmits data, but subsequently cannot determine
which copy is being acknowledged.

 be derived from ambiguous transactions. The canonical

MUST NOT

Both load packets and status feedback messages
measurements based on those packets, and there are no retransmissions needed.

MUST

 contain sequence numbers; this helps with

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

When a latency estimate is used to arm a timer that provides loss detection -- with or
without retransmission -- expiry of the timer
 be interpreted as an indication of
congestion in the network, causing the sending rate to be adapted to a safe conservative
rate ...

MUST

The methods described in this memo use timers for sending rate backoﬀ when status feedback
messages are lost (Lost Status Backoﬀ timeout) and for stopping a test when connectivity is lost
for a longer interval (feedback message or load packet timeouts).

This memo does not foresee any speciﬁc beneﬁt of using Explicit Congestion Notiﬁcation (ECN).

Section 3.2 of [RFC8085]

 discusses message size guidelines:

 subtract the size of
To determine an appropriate UDP payload size, applications
the IP header (which includes any IPv4 optional headers or IPv6 extension headers) as
well as the length of the UDP header (8 bytes) from the PMTU size.

MUST

The method uses a sending rate table with a maximum UDP payload size that anticipates
signiﬁcant header overhead and avoids fragmentation.

Section 3.3 of [RFC8085]

 provides reliability guidelines:

Applications that do require reliable message delivery
mechanism themselves.

MUST

 implement an appropriate

The IP-Layer Capacity Metrics and Methods do not require reliable delivery.

Applications that require ordered delivery
themselves.

MUST

 reestablish datagram ordering

The IP-Layer Capacity Metrics and Methods do not need to reestablish packet order; it is
preferable to measure packet reordering if it occurs

[RFC4737]

.

B.2.  Assessment of Recommendations

SHOULD

The load rate adjustment algorithm's goal is to determine the Maximum IP-Layer Capacity in the
context of an infrequent, diagnostic, short-term measurement. This goal is a global exception to
many
lived ﬂows that must coexist with other traﬃc in a more or less fair way. However, the algorithm
(as speciﬁed in Section 8.1 and Appendix A above) reacts to indications of congestion in clearly
deﬁned ways.

, of which many are intended for long-

-level requirements as listed in

[RFC8085]

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

A speciﬁc recommendation is provided as an example.
implications of RTT and loss measurements on congestion control) says:

Section 3.1.5 of [RFC8085]

 (regarding the

A congestion control [algorithm] designed for UDP
possible when it experiences congestion, and it
rate and the response time when choosing a new rate.

SHOULD

SHOULD

 respond as quickly as
 take into account both the loss

The load rate adjustment algorithm responds to loss and RTT measurements with a clear and
concise rate reduction when warranted, and the response makes use of direct measurements
(more exact than can be inferred from TCP ACKs).

Section 3.1.5 of [RFC8085]

 goes on to specify the following:

 result in bandwidth (capacity) use
The implemented congestion control scheme
that is comparable to that of TCP within an order of magnitude, so that it does not starve
other ﬂows sharing a common bottleneck.

SHOULD

This is a requirement for coexistent streams, and not for diagnostic and infrequent
measurements using short durations. The rate oscillations during short tests allow other packets
to pass and don't starve other ﬂows.

Ironically, ad hoc TCP-based measurements of "Internet Speed" are also designed to work around
this
outstanding data dedicated to testing.

-level requirement, by launching many ﬂows (9, for example) to increase the

SHOULD

The load rate adjustment algorithm cannot become a TCP-like congestion control, or it will have
the same weaknesses of TCP when trying to make a Maximum IP-Layer Capacity measurement
and will not achieve the goal. The results of the referenced testing
[Y.Sup60]
based measurements.

 supported this statement hundreds of times, with comparisons to multi-connection TCP-

[LS-SG12-A] [LS-SG12-B]

A brief review of requirements from
compliant, or "NA" (Not Applicable)):

[RFC8085]

 follows (marked "Yes" when this memo is

Yes?

Recommendation in RFC 8085

Section

3

MUST

 tolerate a wide range of Internet path conditions

SHOULD

 use a full-featured transport (e.g., TCP)

SHOULD

 control rate of transmission

3.1

SHOULD

 perform congestion control over all traﬃc

Yes

NA

Yes

NA

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

Yes?

Recommendation in RFC 8085

For bulk transfers,

SHOULD

 consider implementing TFRC

else,

SHOULD

 in other ways use bandwidth similar to TCP

For non-bulk transfers,

SHOULD

 measure RTT and transmit max. 1 datagram/RTT

else,

SHOULD

 send at most 1 datagram every 3 seconds

SHOULD

 back-oﬀ retransmission timers following loss

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Section

3.1.2

3.1.3

3.1.1

Yes

SHOULD

 provide mechanisms to regulate the bursts of transmission

3.1.6

NA

MAY

 implement ECN; a speciﬁc set of application mechanisms are

3.1.7

REQUIRED

 if ECN is used

Yes

For DiﬀServ,

SHOULD NOT

 rely on implementation of PHBs

For QoS-enabled paths,

MAY

 choose not to use CC

SHOULD NOT

 rely solely on QoS for their capacity

3.1.8

3.1.9

3.1.10

non-CC controlled ﬂows

SHOULD

 implement a transport circuit breaker

MAY

 implement a circuit breaker for other applications

For tunnels carrying IP traﬃc,

3.1.11

SHOULD NOT

 perform congestion control

MUST

 correctly process the IP ECN ﬁeld

For non-IP tunnels or rate not determined by traﬃc,

3.1.11

SHOULD

 perform CC or use circuit breaker

SHOULD

 restrict types of traﬃc transported by the tunnel

Yes

Yes

NA

Yes

NA

NA

NA

NA

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

Yes

Yes

NA

Yes

NA

Yes

Yes

NA

NA

Yes

NA

NA

NA

Yes

Yes

Yes?

Recommendation in RFC 8085

SHOULD NOT

 send datagrams that exceed the PMTU, i.e.,

SHOULD

 discover PMTU or send datagrams < minimum PMTU

Speciﬁc application mechanisms are

REQUIRED

 if PLPMTUD is used

SHOULD

 handle datagram loss, duplication, reordering

SHOULD

 be robust to delivery delays up to 2 minutes

SHOULD

 enable IPv4 UDP checksum

SHOULD

 enable IPv6 UDP checksum; speciﬁc application mechanisms are

3.4.1

REQUIRED

 if a zero IPv6 UDP checksum is used

NA

SHOULD

 provide protection from oﬀ-path attacks

else,

MAY

 use UDP-Lite with suitable checksum coverage

SHOULD NOT

 always send middlebox keep-alive messages

MAY

 use keep-alives when needed (min. interval 15 sec)

Applications speciﬁed for use in limited use (or controlled environments)
SHOULD

 identify equivalent mechanisms and describe their use case

3.6

Bulk-multicast apps

SHOULD

 implement congestion control

Low volume multicast apps

SHOULD

 implement congestion control

Multicast apps

SHOULD

 use a safe PMTU

SHOULD

 avoid using multiple ports

MUST

 check received IP source address

NA

SHOULD

 validate payload in ICMP messages

Section

3.2

3.3

3.4

5.1

3.4.2

3.5

4.1.1

4.1.2

4.2

5.1.2

5.2

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9097

IP Capacity Metrics/Methods

November 2021

Yes?

Recommendation in RFC 8085

Section

Yes

 use a randomized Source port or equivalent technique, and, for
 send responses from source address

SHOULD

SHOULD
client/server applications,
matching request

NA

SHOULD

 use standard IETF security protocols when needed

Table 4: Summary of Key Guidelines from RFC 8085

Acknowledgments

6

6

,

Thanks to
Joachim Fabini Matt Mathis J. Ignacio Alvarez-Hamelin Wolfgang Balzer Frank
Brockners Greg Mirsky Martin Duke Murray Kucherawy
,
extensive comments on this memo and related topics. In a second round of reviews, we
acknowledge

Magnus Westerlund Lars Eggert

.
Zaheduzzaman Sarker

,
 for their

Benjamin Kaduk

, and

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Al Morton
AT&T Labs
200 Laurel Avenue South
Middletown NJ 07748
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

 +1 732 420 1571
 acm@research.att.com

Rüdiger Geib
Deutsche Telekom
Heinrich Hertz Str. 3-7
64295 Darmstadt
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49 6151 5812747
 Ruediger.Geib@telekom.de

Len Ciavattone
AT&T Labs
200 Laurel Avenue South
Middletown NJ 07748
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

 +1 732 420 1239
 lencia@att.com

Morton, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

