Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9044
Standards Track
June 2021
2070-1721
R. Housley
Vigil Security

RFC 9044
Using the AES-GMAC Algorithm with the
Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)

Abstract

This document speciﬁes the conventions for using the AES-GMAC Message Authentication Code
algorithm with the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) as speciﬁed in RFC 5652.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9044

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9044

Using AES-GMAC with the CMS

June 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Message Authentication Code Algorithms

3.1.  AES-GMAC

4.  Implementation Considerations

5.  ASN.1 Module

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

This document speciﬁes the conventions for using the AES-GMAC
Authentication Code (MAC) algorithm with the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)

[AES] [GCM]

 Message

[RFC5652]
.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Message Authentication Code Algorithms

This section speciﬁes the conventions employed by CMS
the AES-GMAC

[AES] [GCM]

 Message Authentication Code (MAC) algorithm.

[RFC5652]

 implementations that support

MAC algorithm identiﬁers are located in the AuthenticatedData macAlgorithm ﬁeld.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9044

Using AES-GMAC with the CMS

June 2021

MAC values are located in the AuthenticatedData mac ﬁeld.

3.1.  AES-GMAC

[AES] [GCM]

The AES-GMAC
following algorithm identiﬁers in the AuthenticatedData macAlgorithm ﬁeld; the choice depends
on the size of the AES key, which is either 128 bits, 192 bits, or 256 bits:

 Message Authentication Code (MAC) algorithm uses one of the

   aes OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2) country(16) us(840)
           organization(1) gov(101) csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4) 1 }

   id-aes128-GMAC OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { aes 9 }

   id-aes192-GMAC OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { aes 29 }

   id-aes256-GMAC OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { aes 49 }

For all three of these algorithm identiﬁer values, the AlgorithmIdentiﬁer parameters ﬁeld
be present, and the parameters

 contain GMACParameters:

MUST

MUST

   GMACParameters ::= SEQUENCE {
      nonce        OCTET STRING, -- recommended size is 12 octets
      length       MACLength DEFAULT 12 }

   MACLength ::= INTEGER (12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16)

The GMACParameters nonce ﬁeld is the GMAC initialization vector. The nonce may have any
number of bits between 8 and (2^64)-1, but it
any content-authentication key, the nonce value
be processed more eﬃciently, so that length for the nonce value is

 be unique. A nonce value of 12 octets can
RECOMMENDED

 be a multiple of 8 bits. Within the scope of

MUST

MUST

.

The GMACParameters length ﬁeld tells the size of the message authentication code. It
match the size in octets of the value in the AuthenticatedData mac ﬁeld. A length of 12 octets is
.
RECOMMENDED

MUST

4.  Implementation Considerations

An implementation of the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Galois/Counter Mode (GCM)
. An implementation of AES-GCM can be
authenticated encryption algorithm is speciﬁed in
used to compute the GMAC message authentication code by providing the content-authentication
key as the AES key, the nonce as the initialization vector, a zero-length plaintext content, and the
content to be authenticated as the additional authenticated data (AAD). The result of the AES-
GCM invocation is the AES-GMAC authentication code, which is called the "authentication tag" in
some implementations. In AES-GCM, the encryption step is skipped when no input plaintext is
provided; therefore, no ciphertext is produced.

[GCM]

Housley

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9044

Using AES-GMAC with the CMS

June 2021

The DEFAULT and
parameters deﬁned for AES-GCM in

RECOMMENDED

Section 3.2 of [RFC5084]
.

 values in GMACParameters were selected to align with the

Housley

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9044

Using AES-GMAC with the CMS

June 2021

5.  ASN.1 Module

The following ASN.1 module uses the deﬁnition for MAC-ALGORITHM from

[RFC5912]

.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9044

Using AES-GMAC with the CMS

June 2021

CryptographicMessageSyntaxGMACAlgorithms
    { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549)
      pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9) smime(16) modules(0)
      id-mod-aes-gmac-alg-2020(72) }

DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN

-- EXPORTS All

IMPORTS
  AlgorithmIdentifier{}, MAC-ALGORITHM
  FROM AlgorithmInformation-2009 -- from [RFC5912]
      { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
        security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
        id-mod-algorithmInformation-02(58)} ;

-- Object Identifiers

aes OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { joint-iso-itu-t(2) country(16) us(840)
       organization(1) gov(101) csor(3) nistAlgorithm(4) 1 }

id-aes128-GMAC OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { aes 9 }

id-aes192-GMAC OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { aes 29 }

id-aes256-GMAC OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { aes 49 }

-- GMAC Parameters

GMACParameters ::= SEQUENCE {
   nonce        OCTET STRING, -- recommended size is 12 octets
   length       MACLength DEFAULT 12 }

MACLength ::= INTEGER (12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16)

-- Algorithm Identifiers

maca-aes128-GMAC MAC-ALGORITHM ::= {
   IDENTIFIER id-aes128-GMAC
   PARAMS TYPE GMACParameters ARE required
   IS-KEYED-MAC TRUE }

maca-aes192-GMAC MAC-ALGORITHM ::= {
   IDENTIFIER id-aes192-GMAC
   PARAMS TYPE GMACParameters ARE required
   IS-KEYED-MAC TRUE }

maca-aes256-GMAC MAC-ALGORITHM ::= {
   IDENTIFIER id-aes256-GMAC
   PARAMS TYPE GMACParameters ARE required
   IS-KEYED-MAC TRUE }

END -- of CryptographicMessageSyntaxGMACAlgorithms

Housley

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9044

Using AES-GMAC with the CMS

June 2021

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the object identiﬁer shown in Table 1 in the "SMI Security for S/MIME
Module Identiﬁer (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)" registry.

Decimal Description

References

72

id-mod-aes-gmac-alg-2020

RFC 9044

Table 1

7.  Security Considerations

The CMS provides a method for authenticating data. This document identiﬁes the conventions
for using the AES-GMAC algorithm with the CMS.

The key management technique employed to distribute message-authentication keys must itself
provide authentication; otherwise, the content is delivered with integrity from an unknown
source.

When more than two parties share the same message-authentication key, data origin
authentication is not provided. Any party that knows the message-authentication key can
compute a valid MAC; therefore, the content could originate from any one of the parties.

Within the scope of any content-authentication key, the AES-GMAC nonce value
MUST
Use of a nonce value more than once allows an attacker to generate valid AES-GMAC
authentication codes for arbitrary messages, resulting in the loss of authentication as described
in Appendix A of

[GCM]

 be unique.

.

Within the scope of any content-authentication key, the authentication tag length (MACLength)
MUST

 be ﬁxed.

If AES-GMAC is used as a building block in another algorithm (e.g., as a pseudorandom function),
 be
AES-GMAC
used as the pseudorandom function for PBKDF2.

 be used only one time by that algorithm. For instance, AES-GMAC

MUST NOT

MUST

When initialization vector (IV) lengths other than 96 bits are used, the GHASH function is used to
process the provided IV, which introduces a potential for IV collisions. However, IV collisions are
not a concern with CMS AuthenticatedData because a fresh content-authentication key is usually
generated for each message.

The probability of a successful forgery is close to 2^(-t), where t is the number of bits in the
authentication tag length (MACLength*8). This nearly ideal authentication protection is achieved
for CMS AuthenticatedData when a fresh content-authentication key is generated for each

Housley

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9044

Using AES-GMAC with the CMS

June 2021

message. However, the strength of GMAC degrades slightly as a function of the length of the
message being authenticated
authentication tags for messages over 2^64 octets.

. Implementations

[F2005] [MV2005]

 use 16-octet

SHOULD

Implementations must randomly generate message-authentication keys. The use of inadequate
pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) to generate keys can result in little or no security. An
attacker may ﬁnd it much easier to reproduce the PRNG environment that produced the keys,
searching the resulting small set of possibilities, rather than brute-force searching the whole key
space. The generation of quality random numbers is diﬃcult.
guidance in this area.

 oﬀers important

[RFC4086]

Implementers should be aware that cryptographic algorithms become weaker with time. As new
cryptanalysis techniques are developed and computing performance improves, the work factor
to break a particular cryptographic algorithm will reduce. Therefore, cryptographic algorithm
implementations should be modular, allowing new algorithms to be readily inserted. That is,
implementers should be prepared to regularly update the set of algorithms in their
implementations. More information is available in BCP 201

.
[RFC7696]

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[AES]

[GCM]

[RFC2119]

[RFC5652]

[RFC5912]

[RFC8174]

National Institute of Standards and Technology "Advanced Encryption Standard
,
(AES)" FIPS PUB 197 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.197
, November 2001,
doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.197>

<https://

.

,

,

,

Dworkin, M. "Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Galois/
Counter Mode (GCM) and GMAC" NIST Special Publication 800-38D DOI
10.6028/NIST.SP.800-38D
NIST.SP.800-38D>

,
, November 2007,

<https://doi.org/10.6028/

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

 and

J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for the Public Key

Hoﬀman, P.
,
Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)" RFC 5912 DOI 10.17487/RFC5912
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5912>

,

,

.

, June 2010,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

8.2.  Informative References

Housley

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9044

Using AES-GMAC with the CMS

June 2021

[F2005]

[MV2005]

[RFC4086]

[RFC5084]

[RFC7696]

,

Ferguson, N. "Authentication weaknesses in GCM"
csrc.nist.gov/csrc/media/projects/block-cipher-techniques/documents/bcm/
comments/cwc-gcm/ferguson2.pdf>

, May 2005,

<https://

.

 and

J. Viega "GCM Update"

McGrew, D.
media/Projects/Block-Cipher-Techniques/documents/BCM/Comments/CWC-GCM/
gcm-update.pdf>

<https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/

, May 2005,

,

.

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Schiller, J.
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for

, June 2005,

<https://

,

Housley, R. "Using AES-CCM and AES-GCM Authenticated Encryption in the
,
Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" RFC 5084 DOI 10.17487/RFC5084
November 2007,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5084>

,

,

.

,

Housley, R. "Guidelines for Cryptographic Algorithm Agility and Selecting
Mandatory-to-Implement Algorithms" BCP 201 RFC 7696 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7696

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7696>

, November 2015,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

Many thanks to
Hollebeek Ben Kaduk Mike Ounsworth
thoughtful improvements.

,

Hans Aschauer Hendrik Brockhaus Quynh Dang Roman Danyliw Tim
,

,
Magnus Westerlund
 for their careful review and

, and

,

,

,

Author's Address

Russ Housley
Vigil Security, LLC
516 Dranesville Road
Herndon VA 20170
,
United States of America
Email:

 housley@vigilsec.com

Housley

Standards Track

Page 9

