Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9887
8907
Standards Track
December 2025
2070-1721
T. Dahm J. Heasley

NTT

D.C. Medway Gash
Cisco Systems, Inc.

A. Ota
Google Inc.

RFC 9887
Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System
Plus (TACACS+) over TLS 1.3

Abstract

This document specifies the use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) version 1.3 to secure the
communication channel between a Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System Plus
(TACACS+) client and server. TACACS+ is a protocol used for Authentication, Authorization, and
Accounting (AAA) in networked environments. The original TACACS+ protocol does not mandate
the use of encryption or secure transport. This specification defines a profile for using TLS 1.3
with TACACS+, including guidance on authentication, connection establishment, and operational
considerations. The goal is to enhance the confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity of TACACS+
traffic, aligning the protocol with modern security best practices.

This document updates RFC 8907.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9887
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Technical Definitions

2.1.  Requirements Language

3.  TACACS+ over TLS

3.1.  Separating TLS Connections

3.2.  TLS Connection

3.3.  TLS Authentication Options

3.4.  TLS Certificate-Based Authentication

3.4.1.  TLS Certificate Path Verification

3.4.2.  TLS Certificate Identification

3.4.3.  Cipher Suites Requirements

3.5.  TLS PSK Authentication

3.6.  TLS Resumption

4.  Obsolescence of TACACS+ Obfuscation

5.  Security Considerations

5.1.  TLS

5.1.1.  TLS Use

5.1.2.  TLS 0-RTT

5.1.3.  TLS Options

5.1.4.  Unreachable Certificate Authority (CA)

5.1.5.  TLS Server Name Indicator (SNI)

5.1.6.  Server Identity Wildcards

5.2.  TACACS+ Configuration

5.3.  Well-Known TCP/IP Port Number

3

3

4

4

5

5

6

6

6

7

7

8

8

9

9

9

10

10

10

10

10

11

11

11

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

6.  Operational Considerations

6.1.  Migration

6.2.  Maintaining Non-TLS TACACS+ Clients

6.3.  YANG Model for TACACS+ Clients

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Acknowledgments

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

"The Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System Plus (TACACS+) Protocol"
provides device administration for routers, network access servers, and other networked
computing devices via one or more centralized TACACS+ servers. The protocol provides
authentication, authorization, and accounting services (AAA) for TACACS+ clients within the
device administration use case.

[RFC8907]

12

12

12

12

13

13

13

13

14

15

The content of the protocol is highly sensitive and requires secure transport to safeguard a
deployment. However, TACACS+ lacks effective confidentiality, integrity, and authentication of
the connection and network traffic between the TACACS+ server and client. The security
mechanisms as described in

Section 4.5 of [RFC8907]

 are extremely weak.

To address these deficiencies, this document updates the TACACS+ protocol to use TLS 1.3
authentication and encryption
, and obsoletes the use of TACACS+ obfuscation
mechanisms. The maturity of TLS in version 1.3 and above makes it a suitable choice for the
TACACS+ protocol.

[RFC8446]

2.  Technical Definitions

The terms defined in
The following terms are also used in this document.

Section 3 of [RFC8907]

 are fully applicable here and will not be repeated.

Obfuscation:

TACACS+ was originally intended to incorporate a mechanism for securing the

Section 10.5.2 of [RFC8907]
body of its packets. The algorithm is categorized as obfuscation in
.
The term is used to ensure that the algorithm is not mistaken for encryption. It should not be
considered secure.

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

Non-TLS connection:

This term refers to the connection defined in

[RFC8907]

. It is a connection

without TLS, using the unsecure TACACS+ authentication and obfuscation (or the
unobfuscated option for testing). The use of well-known TCP/IP host port number 49 is
specified as the default for non-TLS connections.

TLS connection:

A TLS connection is a TCP/IP connection with TLS authentication and

encryption used by TACACS+ for transport. A TLS connection for TACACS+ is always between
one TACACS+ client and one TACACS+ server.

TLS TACACS+ server:

This document describes a variant of the TACACS+ server, introduced in

, which utilizes TLS for transport, and makes some associated

Section 3.2 of [RFC8907]
protocol optimizations. Both server variants respond to TACACS+ traffic, but this document
specifically defines a TACACS+ server (whether TLS or non-TLS) as being bound to a specific
port number on a particular IP address or hostname. This definition is important in the
context of the configuration of TACACS+ clients to ensure they direct their traffic to the
correct TACACS+ servers.

Peer:

The peer of a TACACS+ client (or server) in the context of a TACACS+ connection, is a
TACACS+ server (or client). Together, the ends of a TACACS+ connection are referred to as
peers.

2.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  TACACS+ over TLS

TACACS+ over TLS takes the protocol defined in
, removes the option for obfuscation,
and specifies that TLS 1.3 be used for transport (Section 3.1 elaborates on TLS version support).
A new well-known default host port number is used. The next sections provide further details
and guidance.

[RFC8907]

TLS is introduced into TACACS+ to fulfill the following requirements:

1.

[RFC8907]

Confidentiality and Integrity: The MD5 algorithm underlying the obfuscation mechanism
specified in
This prevents TACACS+ from being used in a deployment compliant with
Securing the TACACS+ protocol with TLS is intended to provide confidentiality and integrity
without requiring the provision of a secured network.

 has been shown to be insecure

 when used for encryption.

[FIPS-140-3]
.

[RFC6151]

2.

Peer authentication: The authentication capabilities of TLS replace the shared secrets of
obfuscation for mutual authentication.

This document adheres to the recommendations in

[REQ-TLS13]
.

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

3.1.  Separating TLS Connections

Peers implementing the TACACS+ protocol variant defined in this document
authentication and encrypt all data exchanged between them. Therefore, when a TCP
connection is established for the service, a TLS handshake begins immediately. Options that
upgrade an initial non-TLS connection

 be used; see Section 5.3.

MUST NOT

MUST

 apply mutual

To ensure clear separation between TACACS+ traffic using TLS and that which does not (see
Section 5.3), servers supporting TACACS+ over TLS
 listen on a TCP/IP port distinct from
that used by non-TLS TACACS+ servers. It is further
TLS services on separate hosts, as discussed in Section 5.1.1.

 to deploy the TLS and non-

RECOMMENDED

MUST

Given the prevalence of default port usage in existing TACACS+ client implementations, this
specification assigns the well-known TCP port number 300 for TACACS+ over TLS (see Section 7).

While the use of the designated port number is strongly encouraged, deployments with specific
requirements
consider the operational implications described in Section 5.3.

 use alternative TCP port numbers. In such cases, operators must carefully

MAY

3.2.  TLS Connection

A TACACS+ client initiates a TLS connection by making a TCP connection to a configured TLS
TACACS+ server on the TACACS+ TLS port number. Once the TCP connection is established, the
 immediately begin the TLS negotiation before sending any TACACS+ protocol data.
client

MUST

A minimum of TLS 1.3
described in this document, will work with future versions of TLS. Earlier versions of TLS
NOT

 be used for transport. It is expected that TACACS+, as

[RFC8446] MUST

 be used.

MUST

Once the TLS connection has been successfully established, the exchange of TACACS+ data
proceed in accordance with the procedures defined in
messages
defined in

 be transmitted as TLS application data. The TACACS+ obfuscation mechanism
 be applied when operating over TLS (Section 4).

SHALL
[RFC8907] MUST NOT

. However, all TACACS+

[RFC8907]

MUST

TLS TACACS+ connections are generally not long-lived. The connection will be closed by either a
peer if it encounters an error or an inactivity timeout.

SHALL

For connections not operating in Single Connection Mode (as defined in
the TCP session
Connections operating in Single Connection Mode
typically subject to timeout and closure after a brief period of inactivity. Consequently, support
for transport-layer keepalive mechanisms is not required.

 be closed upon completion of the associated TACACS+ session.
MAY

 persist for a longer duration but are

Section 4.3 of [RFC8907]

),

Why a connection is closed has no bearing on TLS resumption, unless closed by a TLS error, in
which case it is possible that the ticket has been invalidated.

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

TACACS+ clients and servers widely support IPv6 configuration in addition to IPv4. This
document makes no changes to recommendations in this area.

3.3.  TLS Authentication Options

Implementations
for interoperability between deployments. This authentication option is specified in Section 3.4.

 support certificate-based mutual authentication, to provide a core option

MUST

In addition to certificate-based TLS authentication, implementations
alternative authentication mechanisms:

MAY

 support the following

•

Pre-Shared Keys (PSKs) (Section 3.5), also known as external PSKs in TLS 1.3.

•

Raw Public Keys (RPKs). The details of RPKs are considered out of scope for this document.
Refer to
 and
security considerations.

 for implementation, deployment, and

Section 4.4.2 of [RFC8446]

[RFC7250]

3.4.  TLS Certificate-Based Authentication

TLS certificate authentication is the primary authentication option for TACACS+ over TLS. This
section covers certificate-based authentication only.

Deploying TLS certificate-based authentication correctly will considerably improve the security
of TACACS+ deployments. It is essential for implementers and operators to understand the
implications of a TLS certificate-based authentication solution, including the correct handling of
certificates, Certificate Authorities (CAs), and all elements of TLS configuration. For guidance,
start with

[BCP195]
.

Each peer
MUST
described in Section 3.4.1.

 validate the certificate path of its remote peer, including revocation checking, as

If the verification succeeds, the authentication is successful and the connection is permitted.
Policy may impose further constraints upon the peer, allowing or denying the connection based
on certificate fields or any other parameters exposed by the implementation.

Unless disabled by configuration, a peer
an invalid TLS certificate.

MUST NOT

 permit connection of any peer that presents

3.4.1.  TLS Certificate Path Verification

The implementation of certificate-based mutual authentication
validation as described in

Section 6 of [RFC5280]
.

MUST

 support certificate path

In some deployments, a peer may be isolated from a remote peer's CA. Implementations for
these deployments
entire chain of the remote peer's certificate is stored on the local peer.

 support certificate chains (aka bundles or chains of trust), where the

MUST

TLS Cached Information Extension
with RPKs

[RFC7250]

[RFC7924] SHOULD

 be implemented. This

MAY

 be augmented

, though revocation must be handled as it is not part of that specification.

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

 include support for revocation checking. For example,

Other approaches may be used for loading the intermediate certificates onto the client, but they
MUST
Information Access (AIA) extension to provide information about the issuer of the certificate in
which the extension appears. It can be used to provide the address of the Online Certificate
Status Protocol (OCSP) responder from where the revocation status of the certificate (which
includes the extension) can be checked.

 details the Authority

[RFC5280]

3.4.2.  TLS Certificate Identification

For the client-side validation of presented TLS TACACS+ server identities, implementations
[RFC9525]
follow the validation techniques defined in
are applicable for use with the TLS TACACS+ protocol; they are selected by operators depending
upon the deployment design. TLS TACACS+ does not use URI-IDs for TLS TACACS+ server identity
verification.

. Identifier types DNS-ID, IP-ID, or SRV-ID

MUST

Wildcards in TLS TACACS+ server identities simplify certificate management by allowing a single
certificate to secure multiple servers in a deployment. However, this introduces security risks, as
compromising the private key of a wildcard certificate impacts all servers using it. To address
these risks, the guidelines in
SHOULD

 be confined to a subdomain dedicated solely to TACACS+ servers.

 be followed, and the wildcard

Section 6.3 of [RFC9525] MUST

For the TLS TACACS+ server-side validation of client identities, implementations
the ability to configure which fields of a certificate are used for client identification to verify that
the client is a valid source for the received certificate and that it is permitted access to TACACS+.
Implementations

 support either:

 support

MUST

MUST

•

Network-address-based validation methods as described in

Section 5.2 of [RFC5425]

 or

•

Client Identity validation of a shared identity in the certificate subjectAltName. This is
applicable in deployments where the client securely supports an identity which is shared
with the TLS TACACS+ server. Matching of dNSName and iPAddress
Other options defined in
allows a client's network location to be reconfigured without issuing a new client certificate.

Section 4.2.1.6 of [RFC5280] MAY

 be supported. This approach

 be supported.

MUST

MUST
). TLS TACACS+ clients

 support the TLS Server Name Indication (SNI) extension (

Implementations
[RFC6066]
domain name, so that it may be included in the SNI "server_name" extension of the client hello
(This is distinct from the IP Address or hostname configuration used for the TCP connection).
Refer to Section 5.1.5 for security related operator considerations.

 support the ability to configure the TLS TACACS+ server's

Section 3 of

MUST

Certificate provisioning is out of scope of this document.

3.4.3.  Cipher Suites Requirements

Implementations
MUST
Readers should refer to
so that operators can adapt.

 support the TLS 1.3 mandatory cipher suites (
[BCP195]

. The cipher suites offered or accepted

Section 9.1 of [RFC8446]

).

SHOULD

 be configurable

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

3.5.  TLS PSK Authentication

As an alternative to certificate-based authentication, implementations
known as external PSKs in TLS 1.3
PSKs.

 support PSKs, also
. These should not be confused with resumption

[RFC8446]

MAY

The use of external PSKs is less well established than certificate-based authentication. It is
Section 4 of [RFC8446]
.
RECOMMENDED

 that systems follow the directions of

[RFC9257]

 and

Where PSK authentication is implemented, PSK lengths of at least 16 octets

MUST

 be supported.

PSK identity
support PSK identities of at least 16 octets.

 follow recommendations of

MUST

Section 6.1 of [RFC9257]

. Implementations

MUST

Although this document removes the option of obfuscation (Section 4), it is still possible that the
TLS and non-TLS versions of TACACS+ exist in an organization, for example, during migration
(Section 6.1). In such cases, the shared secrets configured for TACACS+ obfuscation clients
NOT

 be the same as the PSKs configured for TLS clients.

MUST

3.6.  TLS Resumption

[RFC8446]

 can minimize the number of round trips required during the

TLS Resumption
handshake process. If a TLS client holds a ticket previously extracted from a NewSessionTicket
message from the TLS TACACS+ server, it can use the PSK identity tied to that ticket. If the TLS
TACACS+ server consents, the resumed session is acknowledged as authenticated and securely
linked to the initial session.

SHOULD

 use resumption when it holds a valid unused ticket from the TLS TACACS+

The client
server, as each ticket is intended for a single use only and will be refreshed during resumption.
The TLS TACACS+ server can reject a resumption request, but the TLS TACACS+ server
SHOULD
allow resumption if the ticket in question has not expired and has not been used before.

When a TLS TACACS+ server is presented with a resumption request from the TLS client, it
still choose to require a full handshake. In this case, the negotiation proceeds as if the session
was a new authentication, and the resumption attempt is ignored. As described in
of [RFC8446]
TACACS+ clients and servers
[RFC8446]
.

, reuse of a ticket allows passive observers to correlate different connections. TLS
Appendix C.4 of

 follow the client tracking preventions in

SHOULD

Appendix C.4

MAY

When processing TLS resumption, certificates must be verified to check for revocation during
the period since the last NewSessionTicket Message.

The resumption ticket_lifetime
Section 4.6.1 of [RFC8446]
to

 for guidance on ticket lifetime.

SHOULD

 be configurable, including a zero seconds lifetime. Refer

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

4.  Obsolescence of TACACS+ Obfuscation

The obfuscation mechanism documented in

Section 4.5 of [RFC8907]

 is weak.

The introduction of TLS authentication and encryption to TACACS+ replaces this former
mechanism, so obfuscation is hereby obsoleted. This section describes how the TACACS+ client
and servers

 operate regarding the obfuscation mechanism.

MUST

Peers

MUST NOT

 use obfuscation with TLS.

A TACACS+ client initiating a TACACS+ TLS connection
TAC_PLUS_UNENCRYPTED_FLAG bit, thereby asserting that obfuscation is not used for the
session. All subsequent packets

 have the TAC_PLUS_UNENCRYPTED_FLAG bit set to 1.

 set the

MUST

MUST

A TLS TACACS+ server that receives a packet with the TAC_PLUS_UNENCRYPTED_FLAG bit not
set to 1 over a TLS connection
TAC_PLUS_AUTHOR_STATUS_ERROR, or TAC_PLUS_ACCT_STATUS_ERROR as appropriate for the
TACACS+ message type, with the TAC_PLUS_UNENCRYPTED_FLAG bit set to 1, and terminate the
session. This behavior corresponds to that defined in
obfuscation for TAC_PLUS_UNENCRYPTED_FLAG or key mismatches.

 return an error of TAC_PLUS_AUTHEN_STATUS_ERROR,

Section 4.5 of [RFC8907]

 regarding data

MUST

A TACACS+ client that receives a packet with the TAC_PLUS_UNENCRYPTED_FLAG bit not set to 1
 log this error.
MUST

 terminate the session, and

SHOULD

5.  Security Considerations

5.1.  TLS

This document improves the confidentiality, integrity, and authentication of the connection and
network traffic between TACACS+ peers by adding TLS support.

Simply adding TLS support to the protocol does not guarantee the protection of the TLS TACACS+
server and clients. It is essential for the operators and equipment vendors to adhere to the latest
best practices for ensuring the integrity of network devices and selecting secure TLS key and
encryption algorithms.

 offers substantial guidance for implementing and deploying protocols that use TLS.

[BCP195]
Those implementing and deploying Secure TACACS+ must adhere to the recommendations
relevant to TLS 1.3 outlined in

 or its subsequent versions.

[BCP195]

This document outlines additional restrictions permissible under
. For example, any
recommendations referring to TLS 1.2, including the mandatory support, are not relevant for
Secure TACACS+, as TLS 1.3 or above is mandated.

[BCP195]

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

This document concerns the use of TLS as transport for TACACS+ and does not make any
changes to the core TACACS+ protocol, other than the direct implications of deprecating
obfuscation. Operators
itself. Further documents are planned, for example, to address the security implications of
password-based authentication and enhance the protocol to accommodate alternative schemes.

 be cognizant of the security implications of the TACACS+ protocol

MUST

5.1.1.  TLS Use

New TACACS+ production deployments
[RFC3365]
.

SHOULD

 use TLS authentication and encryption. Also see

TLS TACACS+ servers (as defined in Section 2)
 allow non-TLS connections, because of
the threat of downgrade attacks or misconfiguration described in Section 5.3. Instead, separate
non-TLS TACACS+ servers

 be set up to cater for these clients.

MUST NOT

SHOULD

NOT RECOMMENDED

It is
on the same host, for reasons discussed in Section 5.3. Non-TLS connections would be better
served by deploying the required non-TLS TACACS+ servers on separate hosts.

 that TLS TACACS+ servers and non-TLS TACACS+ servers be deployed

TACACS+ clients
prohibition includes during the migration of a deployment (Section 6.1).

 fail back to a non-TLS connection if a TLS connection fails. This

MUST NOT

5.1.2.  TLS 0-RTT

TLS 1.3 resumption and PSK techniques make it possible to send early data, aka 0-RTT data, data
that is sent before the TLS handshake completes. Replay of this data is a risk. Given the
sensitivity of TACACS+ data, clients
that is, clients
clients that do.

 send data until the full TLS handshake completes;
MUST

 send 0-RTT data and TLS TACACS+ servers

 abruptly disconnect

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

TLS TACACS+ clients and servers
and 4.2.10 of

[RFC8446]

 for security concerns.

MUST NOT

 include the "early_data" extension. See Sections 2.3

5.1.3.  TLS Options

Recommendations in
algorithms should be supported, deprecated, obsoleted, or abandoned.

[BCP195] MUST

 be followed to determine which TLS versions and

Also,

Section 9 of [RFC8446]

 prescribes mandatory supported options.

5.1.4.  Unreachable Certificate Authority (CA)

Operators should be cognizant of the potential of TLS TACACS+ server and/or client isolation
from their peer's CA by network failures. Isolation from a public key certificate's CA will cause
the verification of the certificate to fail and thus TLS authentication of the peer to fail. The
approach mentioned in Section 3.4.1 can help address this and should be considered.

5.1.5.  TLS Server Name Indicator (SNI)

Operators should be aware that the TLS SNI extension is part of the TLS client hello, which is
Section 11.1 of [RFC6066]
.
sent in cleartext. It is, therefore, subject to eavesdropping. Also see

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

5.1.6.  Server Identity Wildcards

The use of wildcards in TLS server identities creates a single point of failure: a compromised
private key of a wildcard certificate impacts all servers using it. Their use
recommendations of
limited to a subdomain dedicated solely to TLS TACACS+ servers. Further, operators
ensure that the TLS TACACS+ servers covered by a wildcard certificate are impervious to
redirection of traffic to a different server (for example, due to on-path attacks or DNS cache
poisoning).

 follow the
MUST
 ensure that the wildcard is
MUST

Section 7.1 of [RFC9525]

. Operators

MUST

5.2.  TACACS+ Configuration

Implementors must ensure that the configuration scheme introduced for enabling TLS is
straightforward and leaves no room for ambiguity regarding whether TLS or non-TLS will be
used between the TACACS+ client and the TACACS+ server.

This document recommends the use of a separate port number that TLS TACACS+ servers will
listen to. Where deployments have not overridden the defaults explicitly, TACACS+ client
implementations

 use the correct port values:

MUST

•

49: for non-TLS connection TACACS+

•

300: for TLS connection TACACS+

Implementors may offer a single option for TACACS+ clients and servers to disable all non-TLS
TACACS+ operations. When enabled on a TACACS+ server, it will not respond to any requests
from non-TLS TACACS+ client connections. When enabled on a TACACS+ client, it will not
establish any non-TLS TACACS+ server connections.

5.3.  Well-Known TCP/IP Port Number

A new port number is considered appropriate (rather than a mechanism that negotiates an
upgrade from an initial non-TLS TACACS+ connection) because it allows:

•

ease of blocking the unobfuscated or obfuscated connections by the TCP/IP port number,

•

passive Intrusion Detection Systems (IDSs) monitoring the unobfuscated to be unaffected by
the introduction of TLS,

•

avoidance of on-path attacks that can interfere with upgrade, and

•

prevention of the accidental exposure of sensitive information due to misconfiguration.

However, the coexistence of inferior authentication and obfuscation, whether a non-TLS
connection or deprecated parts that compose TLS, also presents an opportunity for downgrade
attacks. Causing failure of connections to the TLS-enabled service or the negotiation of shared
algorithm support are two such downgrade attacks.

The simplest mitigation exposure from non-TLS connection methods is to refuse non-TLS
connections at the host entirely, perhaps using separate hosts for non-TLS connections and TLS.

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

 support configuration that requires peers, globally and individually, to use TLS.

Another approach is mutual configuration that requires TLS. TACACS+ clients and servers
SHOULD
Furthermore, peers
algorithms to those recommended by standards bodies and implementers.

 be configurable to limit offered or recognized TLS versions and

SHOULD

6.  Operational Considerations

Operational and deployment considerations are spread throughout the document. While
avoiding repetition, it is useful for the impatient to direct particular attention to Sections 5.2 and
5.1.5. However, it is important that the entire Section 5 is observed.

It is essential for operators to understand the implications of a TLS certificate-based
authentication solution, including the correct handling of certificates, CAs, and all elements of
TLS configuration. Refer to
certificates to all peers, including TACACS+ TLS clients, to permit the mandatory mutual
authentication.

 for guidance. Attention is drawn to the provisioning of

[BCP195]

6.1.  Migration

Section 5.2 mentions that for an optimal deployment of TLS TACACS+, TLS should be universally
applied throughout the deployment. However, during the migration process from a non-TLS
TACACS+ deployment, operators may need to support both TLS and non-TLS TACACS+ servers.
This migration phase allows operators to gradually transition their deployments from an
insecure state to a more secure one, but it is important to note that it is vulnerable to downgrade
attacks. Therefore, the migration phase should be considered insecure until it is fully completed.
To mitigate this hazard:

•

The period where any client is configured with both TLS and non-TLS TACACS+ servers
should be minimized.

•

The operator must consider the security impact of supporting both TLS and non-TLS
connections, as mentioned above.

6.2.  Maintaining Non-TLS TACACS+ Clients

Some TACACS+ client devices in a deployment may not implement TLS. These devices will
require access to non-TLS TACACS+ servers. Operators must follow the recommendation of
Section 5.1.1 and deploy separate non-TLS TACACS+ servers for these non-TLS clients from those
used for the TLS clients.

6.3.  YANG Model for TACACS+ Clients

[TACACS-YANG]

 specifies a YANG model for managing TACACS+ clients, including TLS support.

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has allocated the following new well-known system in the "Service Name and Transport
Protocol Port Number Registry" (see
numbers>
name given to the non-TLS well-known port name. See the justification for the allocation in
Section 5.3.

). The service name "tacacss" follows the common practice of appending an "s" to the

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/service-names-port-

tacacss
Service Name:
300
Port Number:
Transport Protocol:
Description:
Assignee:
Contact:
Reference:

IETF Chair
RFC 9887

IESG

TCP

TLS Secure Login Host Protocol (TACACSS)

Considerations about service discovery are out of scope of this document.

8.  Acknowledgments

Russ Housley Steven M. Bellovin Stephen Farrell Alan DeKok

,

,

,

The author(s) would like to thank
Warren Kumari Tom Petch Tirumal Reddy Valery Smyslov
,
support, insightful review, and/or comments.
[RFC9190]
approach to TLS.
still in draft form at the time of writing,
recommendations.

[RFC9813]

,

,

,

Mohamed Boucadair
 for their
 was also used as a basis for the general
 was used as a basis for TLS resumption recommendations. Although

[RFC5425]

, and

 was used as a model for PSK

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[BCP195]

Best Current Practice 195,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp195>
.

Moriarty, K.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8996

 and

S. Farrell "Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1" BCP 195 RFC 8996
,

,

,

,

, March 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8996>

.

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

[RFC2119]

[RFC5280]

[RFC5425]

[RFC6066]

[RFC7250]

[RFC7924]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8907]

[RFC9525]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Miao, F., Ed. Ma, Y., Ed.
,
Transport Mapping for Syslog" RFC 5425 DOI 10.17487/RFC5425
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5425>
.

J. Salowey, Ed. "Transport Layer Security (TLS)

, and

, March 2009,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
Definitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6066>

, January 2011,

.

<https://www.rfc-

,

Wouters, P., Ed. Tschofenig, H., Ed. Gilmore, J. Weiler, S.
Raw Public Keys in Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport
Layer Security (DTLS)" RFC 7250 DOI 10.17487/RFC7250
<https://
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7250>
.

, June 2014,

, and

,

,

,

T. Kivinen "Using

,

 and

Santesson, S.
Information Extension" RFC 7924 DOI 10.17487/RFC7924
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7924>

,
.

,

,

H. Tschofenig "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Cached

, July 2016,

<https://

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

,

L. Grant "The Terminal
Dahm, T. Ota, A. Medway Gash, D.C. Carrel, D.
,
Access Controller Access-Control System Plus (TACACS+) Protocol" RFC 8907
DOI 10.17487/RFC8907
rfc8907>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2020,

, and

,

,

.

,

Saint-Andre, P.
RFC9525

,
R. Salz "Service Identity in TLS" RFC 9525 DOI 10.17487/
 and
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9525>
, November 2023,

,

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

[FIPS-140-3]

[REQ-TLS13]

,

NIST "Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules" NIST FIPS 140-3 DOI
10.6028/NIST.FIPS.140-3
NIST.FIPS.140-3.pdf>

<https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/

, March 2019,

,

,

.

N. Aviram "New Protocols Using TLS Must Require TLS 1.3" Work
 and
,

Salz, R.
in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-uta-require-tls13-12
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-uta-require-tls13-12>

,
<https://
, 14 April 2025,

,

.

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9887

TACACS+ over TLS 1.3

December 2025

[RFC3365]

[RFC6151]

[RFC9190]

[RFC9257]

[RFC9813]

,

Schiller, J. "Strong Security Requirements for Internet Engineering Task Force
Standard Protocols" BCP 61 RFC 3365 DOI 10.17487/RFC3365
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3365>

, August 2002,

,

.

 and

L. Chen "Updated Security Considerations for the MD5 Message-

Turner, S.
Digest and the HMAC-MD5 Algorithms" RFC 6151 DOI 10.17487/RFC6151
2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6151>

, March

,

,

,

.

Preuß Mattsson, J.
Authentication Protocol with TLS 1.3" RFC 9190 DOI 10.17487/RFC9190
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9190>
February 2022,

M. Sethi "EAP-TLS 1.3: Using the Extensible

 and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Housley, R. Hoyland, J. Sethi, M.
Shared Key (PSK) Usage in TLS" RFC 9257 DOI 10.17487/RFC9257
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9257>

C. A. Wood "Guidance for External Pre-
, July 2022,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

DeKok, A. "Operational Considerations for Using TLS Pre-Shared Keys (TLS-
PSKs) with RADIUS" BCP 243 RFC 9813 DOI 10.17487/RFC9813
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9813>

, July 2025,

,

.

[TACACS-YANG]

 and

Boucadair, M.

B. Wu "A YANG Data Model for Terminal Access Controller
Access-Control System Plus (TACACS+)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
,
ietf-opsawg-secure-tacacs-yang-13
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/
, 7 July 2025,
html/draft-ietf-opsawg-secure-tacacs-yang-13>
.

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Thorsten Dahm
Email:

thorsten.dahm@gmail.com

John Heasley
NTT
Email:

heas@shrubbery.net

Douglas C. Medway Gash
Cisco Systems, Inc.
170 West Tasman Dr.
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
Email:

dcmgash@cisco.com

Andrej Ota
Google Inc.
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

andrej@ota.si

,

Dahm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

