Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9274
7285
Standards Track
July 2022
2070-1721
M. Boucadair
Orange

Q. Wu
Huawei

RFC 9274
A Cost Mode Registry for the Application-Layer
Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) Protocol

Abstract

This document creates a new IANA registry for tracking cost modes supported by the Application-
Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) Protocol. Also, this document relaxes a constraint that was
imposed by the ALTO speciﬁcation on allowed cost mode values.

This document updates RFC 7285.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9274
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Boucadair & Wu

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9274

ALTO Cost Mode

July 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Updates to RFC 7285

3.1.  Updates to Section 6.1.2 of RFC 7285

3.2.  Updates to Section 10.5 of RFC 7285

4.  Backward Compatibility Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The cost mode attribute indicates how costs should be interpreted when communicated as
described in "Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) Protocol"
provision for only two modes:

[RFC7285]

, which includes a

"numerical":

Indicates that numerical operations can be performed (e.g., normalization) on the

returned costs (

Section 6.1.2.1 of [RFC7285]

).

"ordinal":

Indicates that the cost values in a cost map represent ranking (relative to all other

values in a cost map), not actual costs (

Section 6.1.2.2 of [RFC7285]

).

Boucadair & Wu

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9274

ALTO Cost Mode

July 2022

Additional cost modes are required for speciﬁc ALTO deployment cases (e.g.,
to allow for such use cases, this document relaxes the constraint imposed by the base ALTO
speciﬁcation on allowed cost modes (Section 3) and creates a new ALTO registry to track new
cost modes (Section 5).

[ALTO-PV]

). In order

The mechanisms deﬁned in
speciﬁc cost metrics. Refer to Section 4 for more details.

[RFC7285]

 are used to advertise the support of new cost modes for

2.  Terminology

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

This document makes use of the terms deﬁned in

[RFC7285]

.

3.  Updates to RFC 7285

3.1.  Updates to Section 6.1.2 of RFC 7285

This document updates

Section 6.1.2 of [RFC7285]

 as follows:

OLD:

The cost mode attribute indicates how costs should be interpreted. Speciﬁcally, the cost mode
attribute indicates whether returned costs should be interpreted as numerical values or
ordinal rankings.

It is important to communicate such information to ALTO clients, as certain operations may
not be valid on certain costs returned by an ALTO server. For example, it is possible for an
ALTO server to return a set of IP addresses with costs indicating a ranking of the IP addresses.
Arithmetic operations that would make sense for numerical values, do not make sense for
ordinal rankings. ALTO clients may handle such costs diﬀerently.

Cost modes are indicated in protocol messages as strings.

NEW:

The cost mode attribute indicates how costs should be interpreted. Two cost modes
(numerical values and ordinal rankings) are deﬁned, but additional cost modes can be
deﬁned in the future.

It is important to communicate such information to ALTO clients, as certain operations may
not be valid on certain costs returned by an ALTO server. For example, it is possible for an
ALTO server to return a set of IP addresses with costs indicating a ranking of the IP addresses.
Arithmetic operations that would make sense for numerical values, do not make sense for
ordinal rankings. ALTO clients may handle such costs diﬀerently.

Boucadair & Wu

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9274

ALTO Cost Mode

July 2022

Cost modes are indicated in protocol messages as strings.

For any future documents that deﬁnes a new cost mode, indicating whether that new cost
mode applies to all or a subset of cost metrics is strongly recommended. This
recommendation is meant to prevent nondeterministic behaviors that may result in
presenting a cost mode with a speciﬁc metric, while such an association does not make sense
or can't be unambiguously interpreted by ALTO implementations.

If the deﬁnition of a cost mode does not indicate whether that cost mode applies to a subset
 be prepared to accept that cost mode for any
of cost metrics, ALTO implementations
cost metric.

MUST

3.2.  Updates to Section 10.5 of RFC 7285

This document updates

Section 10.5 of [RFC7285]

 as follows:

OLD:

A cost mode is encoded as a string. The string
"ordinal".

MUST

 have a value of either "numerical" or

NEW:

A cost mode is encoded as a string. The string
 contain characters other than US-ASCII alphanumeric characters (U+0030-U+0039,
MUST NOT
U+0041-U+005A, and U+0061-U+007A), the hyphen-minus ('-', U+002D), the colon (':', U+003A), or
the low line ('_', U+005F). Cost modes reserved for Private Use are preﬁxed with "priv:"
(Section 5). Otherwise, the cost mode
Section 5 of [RFC9274].

 have a value that is listed in the registry created in

 be no more than 32 characters, and it

MUST

MUST

4.  Backward Compatibility Considerations

ALTO servers that support new cost modes for speciﬁc cost metrics will use the mechanism
speciﬁed in
will use that information to specify cost constraints in their requests (e.g., indicate a cost metric
and a cost mode). An example of such a behavior is depicted in

 to advertise their capabilities. ALTO clients (including legacy)

Section 9.2.3 of [RFC7285]

Section 9.2 of [RFC7285]

.

If an ALTO client includes a cost mode that is not supported by an ALTO server, the server
indicates such an error with the error code E_INVALID_FIELD_VALUE as per
[RFC7285]
E_INVALID_FIELD_VALUE to requests that include a cost type other than "numerical" or "ordinal"
for the "routingcost" cost metric.

. In practice, legacy ALTO servers will reply with the error code

Section 8.5.2 of

The encoding constraints in Section 3.2 do not introduce any interoperability issue given that
currently implemented cost modes adhere to these constrains (mainly, those in
[ALTO-PV]

[RFC7285]

).

 and

Boucadair & Wu

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9274

ALTO Cost Mode

July 2022

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has created the new "ALTO Cost Modes" subregistry within the "Application-Layer Traﬃc
Optimization (ALTO) Protocol" registry available at

[ALTO]

.

The assignment policy for this subregistry is "IETF Review" (

Section 4.8 of [RFC8126]

).

Requests to register a new ALTO cost mode must include the following information:

Identiﬁer:

The name of the ALTO cost mode. Refer to Section 3.2 for more details on allowed

encoding.

Description:

A short description of the requested ALTO cost mode.

Intended Semantics:

A reference to where the semantic of the requested cost mode is deﬁned.

Reference:

A reference to the document that registers the requested cost mode.

Cost modes preﬁxed with "priv:" are reserved for Private Use (
added the following note to the new subregistry:

Section 4.1 of [RFC8126]

). IANA has

Identiﬁers preﬁxed with "priv:" are reserved for Private Use (see RFC 9274, Section 5).

The subregistry is initially populated with the following values:

Identiﬁer Description

Intended
Semantics

numerical

Indicates that numerical operations can be
performed on the returned costs

Section 6.1.2.1 of
[RFC7285]

ordinal

Indicates that the cost values in a cost map
represent ranking

Section 6.1.2.2 of
[RFC7285]

Reference

RFC 9274

RFC 9274

Table 1: ALTO Cost Modes

6.  Security Considerations

This document does not introduce new concerns other than those already discussed in
of [RFC7285]

.

Section 15

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

Boucadair & Wu

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9274

ALTO Cost Mode

July 2022

[RFC2119]

[RFC7285]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
, and

Alimi, R., Ed. Penno, R., Ed. Yang, Y., Ed. Kiesel, S. Previdi, S. Roome, W.
,
Shalunov, S.
Protocol" RFC 7285 DOI 10.17487/RFC7285
.
editor.org/info/rfc7285>

R. Woundy "Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)
<https://www.rfc-

, September 2014,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[ALTO]

[ALTO-PV]

,

IANA "Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) Protocol" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/alto-protocol/>
.

,

,

,

Gao, K. Lee, Y. Randriamasy, S. Yang, Y. R.
,
Path Vector" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-alto-path-vector-25
March 2022,
.
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-alto-path-vector-25>

J. J. Zhang "An ALTO Extension:
, 20

, and

,
,

,

Acknowledgements

Many thanks to

Benjamin Kaduk

 for spotting the issue during the review of

[ALTO-PV]

.

Thanks to
Qiao Xiang

Adrian Farrel Dhruv Dhody Luis Miguel Contreras Murillo Sabine Randriamasy
 for the review and comments.

,

,

,

, and

Special thanks to

Kai Gao

 for Shepherding the document.

Thanks to

Martin Duke

 for the AD review.

Thanks to
Farrell

 for the secdir review.

Roni Even

 for the gen-art review,

Jaime Jimenez

 for the artart review, and

Stephen

Thanks to
Murray Kucherawy

 for the IESG review.

Robert Wilton Lars Eggert Francesca Palombini Roman Danyliw Paul Wouters

,

,

,

,

, and

Boucadair & Wu

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9274

ALTO Cost Mode

July 2022

Authors' Addresses

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
35000 Rennes
France
Email:

 mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Qin Wu
Huawei
Yuhua District
101 Software Avenue
Nanjing
Jiangsu 210012
,
China
Email:

 bill.wu@huawei.com

Boucadair & Wu

Standards Track

Page 7

