Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9842
Standards Track
September 2025
2070-1721
P. Meenan, Ed.
Google LLC

Y. Weiss, Ed.
Shopify Inc.

RFC 9842
Compression Dictionary Transport

Abstract

This document specifies a mechanism for dictionary-based compression in the Hypertext
Transfer Protocol (HTTP). By utilizing this technique, clients and servers can reduce the size of
transmitted data, leading to improved performance and reduced bandwidth consumption. This
document extends existing HTTP compression methods and provides guidelines for the delivery
and use of compression dictionaries within the HTTP protocol.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9842
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Use Cases

1.1.1.  Version Upgrade

1.1.2.  Common Content

1.2.  Notational Conventions

2.  Dictionary Negotiation

2.1.  Use-As-Dictionary

2.1.1.  "match"

2.1.2.  "match-dest"

2.1.3.  "id"

2.1.4.  "type"

2.1.5.  Examples

2.2.  Available-Dictionary

2.2.1.  Dictionary Freshness Requirement

2.2.2.  Dictionary URL Matching

2.2.3.  Multiple Matching Dictionaries

2.3.  Dictionary-ID

3.  The "compression-dictionary" Link Relation Type

4.  Dictionary-Compressed Brotli

5.  Dictionary-Compressed Zstandard

6.  Negotiating the Content Encoding

6.1.  Accept-Encoding

6.2.  Content-Encoding

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Content Encoding Registration

7.2.  Header Field Registration

7.3.  Link Relation Registration

3

3

3

4

5

6

6

6

7

7

7

7

8

8

8

9

9

10

10

11

11

12

12

12

12

13

13

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

8.  Compatibility Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

9.1.  Changing Content

9.2.  Reading Content

9.3.  Security Mitigations

9.3.1.  Cross-Origin Protection

9.3.2.  Response Readability

9.3.3.  Server Responsibility

10. Privacy Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

13

13

13

14

14

14

14

14

15

15

15

16

17

This specification defines a mechanism for using designated HTTP
 responses as an
external dictionary for future HTTP responses for compression schemes that support using
external dictionaries (e.g., Brotli

 and Zstandard

[RFC7932]

[HTTP]

[ZSTD]

).

This document describes the HTTP headers used for negotiating dictionary usage and registers
content-encoding values for compressing with Brotli and Zstandard using a negotiated
dictionary.

The negotiation of dictionary usage leverages HTTP's content negotiation (see
[HTTP]

) and is usable with all versions of HTTP.

Section 12 of

1.1.  Use Cases

Any HTTP response can be specified for use as a compression dictionary for future HTTP
requests, which provides a lot of flexibility. Two common use cases that are seen frequently are
described below.

1.1.1.  Version Upgrade

Using a previous version of a resource as a dictionary for a newer version enables delivery of a
delta-compressed version of the changes, usually resulting in significantly smaller responses
than what can be achieved by compression alone.

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

For example:

Figure 1: Version Upgrade Example

1.1.2.  Common Content

If several resources share common patterns in their responses, then it can be useful to reference
an external dictionary that contains those common patterns, effectively compressing them out
of the responses. Some examples of this are common template HTML for similar pages across a
site and common keys and values in API calls.

For example:

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 4

ClientServerGET/app.v1.js200OKUse-As-Dictionary:match="/app*js"<fullapp.v1.jsresource-100KBcompressed>Sometimelater...ClientServerGET/app.v2.jsAvailable-Dictionary::pZGm1A...2a2fFG4=:Accept-Encoding:gzip,br,zstd,dcb,dcz200OKContent-Encoding:dcb<delta-compressedapp.v2.jsresource-1KB>RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

Figure 2: Common Content Example

1.2.  Notational Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses the following terminology from
specify syntax and parsing: Dictionary, String, Inner List, Token, and Byte Sequence.

Section 3 of [STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

 to

This document uses the line folding strategies described in

[FOLDING]
.

This document also uses terminology from

[HTTP]

 and

[HTTP-CACHING]
.

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 5

ClientServerGET/index.html200OKLink:<.../dict>;rel="compression-dictionary"<fullindex.htmlresource-100KBcompressed>GET/dict200OKUse-As-Dictionary:match="/*html"Sometimelater...ClientServerGET/page2.htmlAvailable-Dictionary::pZGm1A...2a2fFG4=:Accept-Encoding:gzip,br,zstd,dcb,dcz200OKContent-Encoding:dcb<delta-compressedpage2.htmlresource-10KB>RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

2.  Dictionary Negotiation

2.1.  Use-As-Dictionary

When responding to an HTTP Request, a server can advertise that the response can be used as a
dictionary for future requests for URLs that match the rules specified in the "Use-As-Dictionary"
response header.

The "Use-As-Dictionary" response header is a Structured Field
with values for "match", "match-dest", "id", and "type".

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

 Dictionary

2.1.1.  "match"

The "match" value of the "Use-As-Dictionary" response header is a String value that provides the
URL Pattern to use for request matching (see

[URLPATTERN]

).

The URL Pattern used for matching does not support using regular expressions.

The following algorithm is used to validate that a given String value is a valid URL Pattern that
does not use regular expressions and is for the same Origin (
dictionary. It will return TRUE for a valid match pattern and FALSE for an invalid pattern that
MUST NOT

Section 4.3.1 of [HTTP]

) as the

 be used.

1.

Let MATCH be the value of "match" for the given dictionary.

2.

Let URL be the URL of the dictionary request.

3.

Let PATTERN be a "URL pattern struct" created by running the steps to "create a URL
pattern" by setting input=MATCH and baseURL=URL (see

Section 1.4 of [URLPATTERN]

).

4.

If the result of running the "has regexp groups" steps for PATTERN returns TRUE, then
return FALSE (see the last list in

Section 1.4 of [URLPATTERN]

).

5.

Return TRUE.

The "match" value is required and
MUST
for the dictionary to be considered valid.

 be included in the "Use-As-Dictionary" response header

Operating at the HTTP level, the specified match patterns will operate on the percent-encoded
).
version of the URL path (see

Section 2 of [URL]

For example, the URL "http://www.example.com/düsseldorf" would be encoded as "http://
www.example.com/d%C3%BCsseldorf" and a relevant match pattern would be:

Use-As-Dictionary: match="/d%C3%BCsseldorf"

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

2.1.2.  "match-dest"

The "match-dest" value of the "Use-As-Dictionary" response header is an Inner List of String
values that provides a list of Fetch request destinations for the dictionary to match (see
"RequestDestination" in

Section 5.4 of [FETCH]

).

An empty list for "match-dest"

MUST

 match all destinations.

For clients that do not support request destinations, the client
match all destinations.

MUST

 treat it as an empty list and

The "match-dest" value is optional and defaults to an empty list.

2.1.3.  "id"

The "id" value of the "Use-As-Dictionary" response header is a String value that specifies a server
identifier for the dictionary. If an "id" value is present and has a string length longer than zero,
then it
 be sent to the server in a "Dictionary-ID" request header when the client sends an
"Available-Dictionary" request header for the same dictionary (see Section 2.2).

MUST

The server identifier

MUST

 be treated as an opaque string by the client.

The server identifier
MUST NOT
dictionary. The dictionary hash

 be relied upon by the server to guarantee the contents of the
MUST

 be validated before use.

The "id" value string length (after any decoding) supports up to 1024 characters.

The "id" value is optional and defaults to the empty string.

2.1.4.  "type"

The "type" value of the "Use-As-Dictionary" response header is a Token value that describes the
file format of the supplied dictionary.

"raw" is defined as a dictionary format that represents an unformatted blob of bytes suitable for
any compression scheme to use.

If a client receives a dictionary with a type that it does not understand, it
dictionary.

MUST NOT

 use the

The "type" value is optional and defaults to "raw".

2.1.5.  Examples

2.1.5.1.  Path Prefix

A response that contained a response header (as shown below) would specify matching any
document request for a URL with a path prefix of /product/ on the same Origin (
[HTTP]

) as the original request:

Section 4.3.1 of

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

Use-As-Dictionary: \
  match="/product/*", match-dest=("document")

2.1.5.2.  Versioned Directories

A response that contained a response header (as shown below) would match any path that starts
with "/app/" and ends with "/main.js":

Use-As-Dictionary: match="/app/*/main.js"

2.2.  Available-Dictionary

When an HTTP client makes a request for a resource for which it has an appropriate dictionary,
it can add an "Available-Dictionary" request header to the request to indicate to the server that it
has a dictionary available to use for compression.

The "Available-Dictionary" request header is a Structured Field
Sequence containing the SHA-256

[SHA-256]

 hash of the contents of a single available dictionary.

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

 Byte

The client
value for the best available match that it has available.

MUST

 only send a single "Available-Dictionary" request header with a single hash

For example:

Available-Dictionary: :pZGm1Av0IEBKARczz7exkNYsZb8LzaMrV7J32a2fFG4=:

2.2.1.  Dictionary Freshness Requirement

To be considered as a match, the dictionary resource
allowed to be served stale (see

[RFC5861]

).

MUST

 be either fresh

[HTTP-CACHING]

 or

2.2.2.  Dictionary URL Matching

When a dictionary is stored as a result of a "Use-As-Dictionary" directive, it includes a "match"
string and an optional "match-dest" string that are used to match an outgoing request from a
client to the available dictionaries.

To see if an outbound request matches a given dictionary, the following algorithm will return
TRUE for a successful match and FALSE for no-match:

1.

If the current client supports request destinations and a "match-dest" string was provided
with the dictionary:

Let DEST be the value of "match-dest" for the given dictionary.
◦
◦
Let REQUEST_DEST be the value of the destination for the current request.

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

◦
If DEST is not an empty list and if REQUEST_DEST is not in the DEST list of destinations,
return FALSE.

2.

Let BASEURL be the URL of the dictionary request.

3.

Let URL represent the URL of the outbound request being checked.

4.

If the Origin of BASEURL and the Origin of URL are not the same, return FALSE (see
4.3.1 of [HTTP]

).

Section

5.

Let MATCH be the value of "match" for the given dictionary.

6.

Let PATTERN be a "URL pattern struct" created by running the steps to "create a URL
pattern" by setting input=MATCH and baseURL=URL (see

Section 1.4 of [URLPATTERN]

).

7.

Return the result of running the "match" steps on PATTERN with input=URL, which will
check for a match between the request URL and the supplied "match" string (see "Match" in
Section 1.4 of [URLPATTERN]

).

2.2.3.  Multiple Matching Dictionaries

When there are multiple dictionaries that match a given request URL, the client
single dictionary using the following rules:

MUST

 pick a

1.

For clients that support request destinations, a dictionary that specifies and matches a
"match-dest" takes precedence over a match that does not use a destination.

2.

Given equivalent destination precedence, the dictionary with the longest "match" takes
precedence.

3.

Given equivalent destination and match length precedence, the most recently fetched
dictionary takes precedence.

2.3.  Dictionary-ID

When an HTTP client makes a request for a resource for which it has an appropriate dictionary
and the dictionary was stored with a server-provided "id" in the "Use-As-Dictionary" response
header, the client

 echo the stored "id" in a "Dictionary-ID" request header.

MUST

The "Dictionary-ID" request header is a Structured Field
1024 characters (after any decoding) and

MUST

 be identical to the server-provided "id".

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

 String of up to

For example, given an HTTP response that set a dictionary ID:

Use-As-Dictionary: match="/app/*/main.js", id="dictionary-12345"

A future request that matches the given dictionary will include both the hash and the ID:

Available-Dictionary: :pZGm1Av0IEBKARczz7exkNYsZb8LzaMrV7J32a2fFG4=:
Dictionary-ID: "dictionary-12345"

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

3.  The "compression-dictionary" Link Relation Type

This specification defines the "compression-dictionary" link relation type
provides a mechanism for an HTTP response to provide a URL for a compression dictionary that
is related to but not directly used by the current HTTP response.

[WEB-LINKING]

 that

The "compression-dictionary" link relation type indicates that fetching and caching the specified
resource is likely to be beneficial for future requests. The response to some of those future
requests likely have the ability to use the indicated resource as a compression dictionary.

Clients can fetch the provided resource at a time that they determine would be appropriate.

The response to the fetch for the compression dictionary needs to include a "Use-As-Dictionary"
response header and a caching response header for it to be usable as a compression dictionary.
The link relation only provides the mechanism for triggering the fetch of the dictionary.

The following example shows a link to a resource at https://example.org/dict.dat that is expected
to produce a compression dictionary:

Link: <https://example.org/dict.dat>; rel="compression-dictionary"

4.  Dictionary-Compressed Brotli

The "dcb" content encoding identifies a resource that is a "Dictionary-Compressed Brotli" stream.

A "Dictionary-Compressed Brotli" stream has a fixed header that is followed by a Shared Brotli
[SHARED-BROTLI]
 stream. The header consists of a fixed 4-byte sequence and a 32-byte hash of
the external dictionary that was used. The Shared Brotli stream is created using the referenced
external dictionary and a compression window that is at most 16 MB in size.

The dictionary used for the "dcb" content encoding is a "raw" dictionary type as defined in
Section 2.1.4 and is treated as a prefix dictionary as defined in

Section 8.2 of [SHARED-BROTLI]
.

The 36-byte fixed header is as follows:

Magic_Number:

4 fixed bytes -- 0xff, 0x44, 0x43, 0x42.

SHA_256_Hash:

32 bytes. SHA-256 hash digest of the dictionary

[SHA-256]
.

Clients that announce support for dcb content encoding
that were compressed with a window size of up to 16 MB.

MUST

 be able to decompress resources

With Brotli compression, the full dictionary is available during compression and decompression
independent of the compression window, allowing for delta-compression of resources larger
than the compression window.

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

5.  Dictionary-Compressed Zstandard

The "dcz" content encoding identifies a resource that is a "Dictionary-Compressed Zstandard"
stream.

A "Dictionary-Compressed Zstandard" stream is a binary stream that starts with a 40-byte fixed
 stream of the response that has been compressed
header and is followed by a Zstandard
with an external dictionary.

[ZSTD]

The dictionary used for the "dcz" content encoding is a "raw" dictionary type as defined in
Section 2.1.4 and is treated as a raw dictionary as per

Section 5 of [ZSTD]
.

The 40-byte header consists of a fixed 8-byte sequence followed by the 32-byte SHA-256 hash of
the external dictionary that was used to compress the resource:

Magic_Number:

8 fixed bytes -- 0x5e, 0x2a, 0x4d, 0x18, 0x20, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00.

SHA_256_Hash:

32 bytes. SHA-256 hash digest of the dictionary

[SHA-256]
.

The 40-byte header is a Zstandard skippable frame (little-endian 0x184D2A5E) with a 32-byte
length (little-endian 0x00000020) that is compatible with existing Zstandard decoders.

Clients that announce support for dcz content encoding
that were compressed with a window size of at least 8 MB or 1.25 times the size of the dictionary,
whichever is greater, up to a maximum of 128 MB.

 be able to decompress resources

MUST

The window size used will be encoded in the content (currently, this can be expressed in powers
of two only) and it
MUST
that exceeds the limit as a decoding error.

 be lower than this limit. An implementation

 treat a window size

MAY

With Zstandard compression, the full dictionary is available during compression and
decompression until the size of the input exceeds the compression window. Beyond that point,
the dictionary becomes unavailable. Using a compression window that is 1.25 times the size of
the dictionary allows for full delta compression of resources that have grown by 25% between
releases while still giving the client control over the memory it will need to allocate for a given
response.

6.  Negotiating the Content Encoding

When a compression dictionary is available to compress the response to a given request, the
encoding to be used is negotiated through the regular mechanism for negotiating content
encoding in HTTP through the "Accept-Encoding" request header and "Content-Encoding"
response header.

The dictionary to use is negotiated separately and advertised in the "Available-Dictionary"
request header.

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

6.1.  Accept-Encoding

When a dictionary is available for use on a given request and the client chooses to make
dictionary-based content encoding available, the client adds the dictionary-aware content
encodings that it supports to the "Accept-Encoding" request header. For example:

Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br, zstd, dcb, dcz

When a client does not have a stored dictionary that matches the request or chooses not to use
one for the request, the client
"Accept-Encoding" request header.

 send its dictionary-aware content encodings in the

MUST NOT

6.2.  Content-Encoding

If a server supports one of the dictionary encodings advertised by the client and chooses to
compress the content of the response using the dictionary that the client has advertised, then it
sets the "Content-Encoding" response header to the appropriate value for the algorithm selected.
For example:

Content-Encoding: dcb

If the response is cacheable, it
 include a "Vary" header to prevent caches from serving
dictionary-compressed resources to clients that don't support them or serving the response
compressed with the wrong dictionary. For example:

MUST

Vary: accept-encoding, available-dictionary

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Content Encoding Registration

IANA has added the following entries to the "HTTP Content Coding Registry" maintained at
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-parameters/>
:

dcb
Name:
Description:
Reference:

"Dictionary-Compressed Brotli" data format.

RFC 9842, Section 4

dcz
Name:
Description:
Reference:

"Dictionary-Compressed Zstandard" data format.

RFC 9842, Section 5

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

7.2.  Header Field Registration

IANA has added the following entries to the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name
Registry" maintained at

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-fields/>
:

Field Name

Status

Reference

Use-As-Dictionary

permanent

RFC 9842, Section 2.1

Available-Dictionary

permanent

RFC 9842, Section 2.2

Dictionary-ID

permanent

RFC 9842, Section 2.3

Table 1

7.3.  Link Relation Registration

IANA has added the following entry to the "Link Relation Types" registry maintained at
www.iana.org/assignments/link-relations/>
:

<https://

Relation Name:
Description:
Reference:

RFC 9842, Section 3

compression-dictionary

Refers to a compression dictionary used for content encoding.

8.  Compatibility Considerations

It is not unusual for devices to be on the network path that intercept, inspect, and process HTTP
requests (web proxies, firewalls, intrusion detection systems, etc.). To minimize the risk of these
devices incorrectly processing dictionary-compressed responses, compression dictionary
transport

 only be used in secure contexts (HTTPS).

MUST

9.  Security Considerations

The security considerations for Brotli
[ZSTD]

 apply to the dictionary-based versions of the respective algorithms.

[RFC7932]

, Shared Brotli

[SHARED-BROTLI]

, and Zstandard

9.1.  Changing Content

The dictionary must be treated with the same security precautions as the content because a
change to the dictionary can result in a change to the decompressed content.

The dictionary is validated using an SHA-256 hash of the content to make sure that the client and
server are both using the same dictionary. The strength of the SHA-256 hash algorithm isn't
explicitly needed to counter attacks since the dictionary is being served from the same origin as
the content. That said, if a weakness is discovered in SHA-256 and it is determined that the

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

dictionary negotiation should use a different hash algorithm, the "Use-As-Dictionary" response
header can be extended to specify a different algorithm and the server would just ignore any
"Available-Dictionary" requests that do not use the updated hash.

9.2.  Reading Content

The compression attacks in
from mixed (e.g., public and private) sources. The data sources include not only the compressed
data but also the dictionaries. For example, if secret cookies are compressed using a public-data-
only dictionary, information about the cookies is still leaked.

 show that it's a bad idea to compress data

Section 2.6 of [RFC7457]

The dictionary can reveal information about the compressed data and vice versa. That is, data
compressed with the dictionary can reveal contents of the dictionary when an adversary can
control parts of the data to compress and see the compressed size. On the other hand, if the
adversary can control the dictionary, the adversary can learn information about the compressed
data.

9.3.  Security Mitigations

If any of the mitigations do not pass, the client

MUST

 drop the response and return an error.

9.3.1.  Cross-Origin Protection

To make sure that a dictionary can only impact content from the same origin where the
dictionary was served, the URL Pattern used for matching a dictionary to requests (Section 2.1.1)
is guaranteed to be for the same origin that the dictionary is served from.

9.3.2.  Response Readability

For clients, like web browsers, that provide additional protection against the readability of the
payload of a response and against user tracking, additional protections
 be taken to make
sure that the use of dictionary-based compression does not reveal information that would not
otherwise be available.

MUST

In these cases, dictionary compression
compressed response are fully readable by the client.

MUST

 only be used when both the dictionary and the

In browser terms, that means either the dictionary and compressed response are same-origin to
the context they are being fetched from or the response is cross-origin and passes the Cross-
Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) check (see

Section 4.9 of [FETCH]

).

9.3.3.  Server Responsibility

As with any usage of compressed content in a secure context, a potential timing attack exists if
the attacker can control any part of the dictionary or if it can read the dictionary and control any
part of the content being compressed while performing multiple requests that vary the
dictionary or injected content. Under such an attack, the changing size or processing time of the
response reveals information about the content, which might be sufficient to read the
supposedly secure response.

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

In general, a server can mitigate such attacks by preventing variations per request, as in
preventing active use of multiple dictionaries for the same content, disabling compression when
any portion of the content comes from uncontrolled sources, and securing access and control
over the dictionary content in the same way as the response content. In addition, the following
requirements on a server are intended to disable dictionary-aware compression when the client
provides CORS request header fields that indicate a cross-origin request context.

The following algorithm will return FALSE for cross-origin requests where precautions such as
not using dictionary-based compression should be considered:

1.

If there is no "Sec-Fetch-Site" request header, return TRUE.

2.

If the value of the "Sec-Fetch-Site" request header is "same-origin", return TRUE.

3.

If there is no "Sec-Fetch-Mode" request header, return TRUE.

4.

If the value of the "Sec-Fetch-Mode" request header is "navigate" or "same-origin", return
TRUE.

5.

If the value of the "Sec-Fetch-Mode" request header is "cors":

◦
If the response does not include an "Access-Control-Allow-Origin" response header, return
FALSE.
◦
If the request does not include an "Origin" request header, return FALSE.
If the value of the "Access-Control-Allow-Origin" response header is "*", return TRUE.
◦
◦
If the value of the "Access-Control-Allow-Origin" response header matches the value of the
"Origin" request header, return TRUE.

6.

Return FALSE.

10.  Privacy Considerations

Since dictionaries are advertised in future requests using the hash of the content of the
dictionary, it is possible to abuse the dictionary to turn it into a tracking cookie.

To mitigate any additional tracking concerns, clients
that they treat cookies
similar to or stricter than the partitioning used for cookies, as well as clearing the dictionaries
whenever cookies are cleared.

. This includes partitioning the storage using partitioning

 treat dictionaries in the same way

[RFC6265]

MUST

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[FETCH]

,

WHATWG "Fetch Standard" WHATWG Living Standard <https://
fetch.spec.whatwg.org/> Commit snapshot: <https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/
commit-snapshots/5a9680638ebfc2b3b7f4efb2bef0b579a2663951/>

,

,

.

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

[FOLDING]

[HTTP]

,

Watsen, K. Auerswald, E. Farrel, A.
Content of Internet-Drafts and RFCs" RFC 8792 DOI 10.17487/RFC8792
2020,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8792>
.

Q. Wu "Handling Long Lines in

, and
,

,

, June

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

[HTTP-CACHING]

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
,
STD 98 RFC 9111 DOI 10.17487/RFC9111
,
info/rfc9111>

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Caching"
,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[SHA-256]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

 and

Eastlake 3rd, D.
based HMAC and HKDF)" RFC 6234 DOI 10.17487/RFC6234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6234>

,

,

.

T. Hansen "US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and SHA-

,

, May 2011,

<https://

[SHARED-BROTLI]

Alakuijala, J. Duong, T. Kliuchnikov, E. Szabadka, Z.
,

L. Vandevenne,
Ed. "Shared Brotli Compressed Data Format" RFC 9841 DOI 10.17487/RFC9841
September 2025,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9841>

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

Nottingham, M.

 and

P. Kamp "Structured Field Values for HTTP" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2024,

,

,

9651 DOI 10.17487/RFC9651
,
rfc9651>

.

[URL]

[URLPATTERN]

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
(URI): Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>
.

, and
,

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier

,

,

, January 2005,

WHATWG "URL Pattern Standard" WHATWG Living Standard <https://
,

,

,

urlpattern.spec.whatwg.org/> Commit snapshot: <https://
urlpattern.spec.whatwg.org/commit-snapshots/
696b4029d52e5854044bac6b72cdb198cb962ed0/>

.

[WEB-LINKING]

Nottingham, M. "Web Linking" RFC 8288 DOI 10.17487/RFC8288
,

,

,

, October

2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>

.

[ZSTD]

M. Kucherawy, Ed. "Zstandard Compression and the 'application/

,

 and

Collet, Y.
zstd' Media Type" RFC 8878 DOI 10.17487/RFC8878
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8878>

.

,

,

, February 2021,

<https://

11.2.  Informative References

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9842

Compression Dictionary Transport

September 2025

[RFC5861]

[RFC6265]

[RFC7457]

[RFC7932]

Nottingham, M. "HTTP Cache-Control Extensions for Stale Content" RFC 5861
DOI 10.17487/RFC5861

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5861>

, May 2010,

,

,

.

,

Barth, A. "HTTP State Management Mechanism" RFC 6265 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6265

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6265>

,
, April 2011,

,

,

.

,

Sheffer, Y. Holz, R.
P. Saint-Andre "Summarizing Known Attacks on
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram TLS (DTLS)" RFC 7457 DOI
10.17487/RFC7457

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7457>

, February 2015,

, and

,

,

,

.

Alakuijala, J.
 and
10.17487/RFC7932

Z. Szabadka "Brotli Compressed Data Format" RFC 7932 DOI
, July 2016,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7932>

,

,

.

Authors' Addresses

Patrick Meenan (
Google LLC
Email:

pmeenan@google.com

editor
)

editor
)

Yoav Weiss (
Shopify Inc.
Email:

yoav.weiss@shopify.com

Meenan & Weiss

Standards Track

Page 17

