Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9471
1034
Standards Track
September 2023
2070-1721
M. Andrews
ISC

S. Huque
Salesforce

P. Wouters
Aiven

D. Wessels
Verisign

RFC 9471
DNS Glue Requirements in Referral Responses

Abstract

The DNS uses glue records to allow iterative clients to find the addresses of name servers that are
contained within a delegated zone. Authoritative servers are expected to return all available glue
records for in-domain name servers in a referral response. If message size constraints prevent
the inclusion of all glue records for in-domain name servers, the server must set the TC
(Truncated) flag to inform the client that the response is incomplete and that the client should
use another transport to retrieve the full response. This document updates RFC 1034 to clarify
correct server behavior.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9471
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Andrews, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9471

DNS Glue Requirements

September 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Types of Glue in Referral Responses

2.1.  Glue for In-Domain Name Servers

2.2.  Glue for Sibling Domain Name Servers

2.3.  Glue for Cyclic Sibling Domain Name Servers

2.4.  Missing Glue

3.  Requirements

3.1.  Glue for In-Domain Name Servers

3.2.  Glue for Sibling Domain Name Servers

3.3.  Update to RFC 1034

4.  Security Considerations

5.  Operational Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

5

5

6

6

7

7

7

7

8

8

8

8

9

9

[RFC1034] [RFC1035]

The Domain Name System (DNS)
to find the addresses of name servers that are contained within a delegated zone. Glue records
are added to the parent zone as part of the delegation process and returned in referral
responses; otherwise, a resolver following the referral has no way of finding these addresses.
Authoritative servers are expected to return all available glue records for in-domain name

 uses glue records to allow iterative clients

Andrews, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9471

DNS Glue Requirements

September 2023

servers in a referral response. If message size constraints prevent the inclusion of all glue
records for in-domain name servers over the chosen transport, the server
 set the TC
(Truncated) flag to inform the client that the response is incomplete and that the client
use another transport to retrieve the full response. This document clarifies that expectation.

MUST

SHOULD

DNS responses sometimes contain optional data in the additional section. In-domain glue
records, however, are not optional. Several other protocol extensions, when used, are also not
optional. This includes TSIG

, and SIG(0)

[RFC2931]
.

[RFC8945]

[RFC6891]

, OPT

At the time of this writing, addresses (A or AAAA records) for a delegation's authoritative name
servers are the only type of glue defined for the DNS.

Note that this document only clarifies requirements for name server software implementations.
It does not introduce or change any requirements regarding data placed in DNS zones or
registries. In other words, this document only makes requirements regarding "available glue
records" (i.e., those given in a zone) but does not make requirements regarding their presence in
a zone. If some glue records are absent from a given zone, an authoritative name server may be
unable to return a useful referral response for the corresponding domain. The IETF may want to
consider a separate update to the requirements for including glue in zone data, beyond those
given in

[RFC1035]
.

[RFC1034]

 and

This document assumes a reasonable level of familiarity with DNS operations and protocol
terms. Much of the terminology is explained in further detail in "DNS Terminology"

[RFC8499]
.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Types of Glue in Referral Responses

This section describes different types of glue that may be found in DNS referral responses. Note
that the type of glue depends on the QNAME. A particular name server (and its corresponding
glue record) can be in-domain for one response and in a sibling domain for another.

2.1.  Glue for In-Domain Name Servers

The following is a simple example of glue records present in the delegating zone "test" for the
child zone "foo.test". The name servers for foo.test (ns1.foo.test and ns2.foo.test) are both below
the delegation point. They are configured as glue records in the "test" zone:

   foo.test.                  86400   IN NS      ns1.foo.test.
   foo.test.                  86400   IN NS      ns2.foo.test.
   ns1.foo.test.              86400   IN A       192.0.2.1
   ns2.foo.test.              86400   IN AAAA    2001:db8::2:2

Andrews, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9471

DNS Glue Requirements

September 2023

A referral response from "test" for "foo.test" with glue for in-domain name servers looks like this:

   ;; QUESTION SECTION:
   ;www.foo.test.       IN      A

   ;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
   foo.test.               86400        IN      NS      ns1.foo.test.
   foo.test.               86400        IN      NS      ns2.foo.test.

   ;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
   ns1.foo.test.           86400        IN      A       192.0.2.1
   ns2.foo.test.           86400        IN      AAAA    2001:db8::2:2

2.2.  Glue for Sibling Domain Name Servers

Sibling domain name servers are NS records that are not contained in the delegated zone itself
but rather are contained in another zone delegated from the same parent. In many cases, glue
for sibling domain name servers is not strictly required for resolution, since the resolver can
make follow-on queries to the sibling zone to resolve the name server addresses (after following
the referral to the sibling zone). However, most name server implementations today provide
them as an optimization to obviate the need for extra traffic from iterative resolvers.

Here, the delegating zone "test" contains two delegations for the child zones "bar.test" and
"foo.test":

   bar.test.                  86400   IN NS      ns1.bar.test.
   bar.test.                  86400   IN NS      ns2.bar.test.
   ns1.bar.test.              86400   IN A       192.0.2.1
   ns2.bar.test.              86400   IN AAAA    2001:db8::2:2

   foo.test.                  86400   IN NS      ns1.bar.test.
   foo.test.                  86400   IN NS      ns2.bar.test.

A referral response from "test" for "foo.test" with glue for sibling domain name servers looks like
this:

   ;; QUESTION SECTION:
   ;www.foo.test.       IN      A

   ;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
   foo.test.               86400        IN      NS      ns1.bar.test.
   foo.test.               86400        IN      NS      ns2.bar.test.

   ;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
   ns1.bar.test.           86400        IN      A       192.0.2.1
   ns2.bar.test.           86400        IN      AAAA    2001:db8::2:2

Andrews, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9471

DNS Glue Requirements

September 2023

2.3.  Glue for Cyclic Sibling Domain Name Servers

The use of sibling domain name servers can introduce cyclic dependencies. This happens when
one domain specifies name servers from a sibling domain, and vice versa. This type of cyclic
dependency can only be broken when the delegating name server includes glue for the sibling
domain in a referral response.

Here, the delegating zone "test" contains two delegations for the child zones "bar.test" and
"foo.test", and each uses name servers under the other:

   bar.test.                  86400   IN NS      ns1.foo.test.
   bar.test.                  86400   IN NS      ns2.foo.test.
   ns1.bar.test.              86400   IN A       192.0.2.1
   ns2.bar.test.              86400   IN AAAA    2001:db8::2:2

   foo.test.                  86400   IN NS      ns1.bar.test.
   foo.test.                  86400   IN NS      ns2.bar.test.
   ns1.foo.test.              86400   IN A       192.0.2.3
   ns2.foo.test.              86400   IN AAAA    2001:db8::2:4

A referral response from "test" for "bar.test" with glue for sibling domain name servers looks like
this:

   ;; QUESTION SECTION:
   ;www.bar.test.       IN      A

   ;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
   bar.test.               86400        IN      NS      ns1.foo.test.
   bar.test.               86400        IN      NS      ns2.foo.test.

   ;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
   ns1.foo.test.           86400        IN      A       192.0.2.3
   ns2.foo.test.           86400        IN      AAAA    2001:db8::2:4

In late 2021, the authors analyzed zone file data available from ICANN's Centralized Zone Data
 and found 222 out of approximately 209,000,000 total delegations that had only
Service
sibling domain NS Resource Records (RRs) in a cyclic dependency as above.

[CZDS]

2.4.  Missing Glue

An example of missing glue is included here, even though it cannot be considered as a type of
glue. While not common, real examples of responses that lack required glue, and with TC=0, have
been shown to occur and cause resolution failures.

The example below, from the dig command
, is based on a response observed in June 2020.
The names have been altered to fall under documentation domains. It shows a case where none
of the glue records present in the zone fit into the available space of the UDP response, and the
TC flag was not set. While this example shows a referral with DNSSEC records

[RFC4033]

[DIG]

Andrews, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9471

DNS Glue Requirements

September 2023

[RFC4034] [RFC4035]
, this behavior has been seen with plain DNS responses as well. Some
records have been truncated for display purposes. Note that at the time of this writing, the
servers originally responsible for this example have been updated and now correctly set the TC
flag.

   % dig +norec +dnssec +bufsize=512 +ignore @ns.example.net \
          rh202ns2.355.foo.example

   ; <<>> DiG 9.15.4 <<>> +norec +dnssec +bufsize +ignore \
          @ns.example.net rh202ns2.355.foo.example
   ; (2 servers found)
   ;; global options: +cmd
   ;; Got answer:
   ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 8798
   ;; flags: qr; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 9, ADDITIONAL: 1

   ;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
   ; EDNS: version: 0, flags: do; udp: 4096
   ;; QUESTION SECTION:
   ;rh202ns2.355.foo.example.         IN A

   ;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
   foo.example.          86400   IN NS      rh120ns2.368.foo.example.
   foo.example.          86400   IN NS      rh202ns2.355.foo.example.
   foo.example.          86400   IN NS      rh120ns1.368.foo.example.
   foo.example.          86400   IN NS      rh202ns1.355.foo.example.
   foo.example.          3600    IN DS      51937 8 1 ...
   foo.example.          3600    IN DS      635 8 2 ...
   foo.example.          3600    IN DS      51937 8 2 ...
   foo.example.          3600    IN DS      635 8 1 ...
   foo.example.          3600    IN RRSIG   DS 8 2 3600 ...

3.  Requirements

This section describes updated requirements for including glue in DNS referral responses.

3.1.  Glue for In-Domain Name Servers

This document clarifies that when a name server generates a referral response, it
all available glue records for in-domain name servers in the additional section or
if constrained by message size.

MUST

MUST

 include
 set TC=1

At the time of this writing, most iterative clients send initial queries over UDP and retry over TCP
upon receiving a response with the TC flag set. UDP responses are generally limited to between
1232 and 4096 bytes, due to values commonly used for the EDNS0 UDP Message Size field
[RFC6891] [FLAGDAY2020]

. TCP responses are limited to 65,535 bytes.

Andrews, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9471

DNS Glue Requirements

September 2023

3.2.  Glue for Sibling Domain Name Servers

This document clarifies that when a name server generates a referral response, it
include all available glue records in the additional section. If, after adding glue for all in-domain
name servers, the glue for all sibling domain name servers does not fit due to message size
constraints, the name server

 set TC=1 but is not obligated to do so.

SHOULD

MAY

Note that users may experience resolution failures for domains with cyclically dependent sibling
name servers when the delegating name server chooses to omit the corresponding glue in a
referral response. As described in Section 2.3, such domains are rare.

3.3.  Update to RFC 1034

OLD:

Copy the NS RRs for the subzone into the authority section of the reply. Put whatever
addresses are available into the additional section, using glue RRs if the addresses are
not available from authoritative data or the cache. Go to step 4.

NEW:

Copy the NS RRs for the subzone into the authority section of the reply. Put whatever NS
addresses are available into the additional section, using glue RRs if the addresses are
not available from authoritative data or the cache. If all glue RRs for in-domain name
servers do not fit, set TC=1 in the header. Go to step 4.

4.  Security Considerations

This document clarifies correct DNS server behavior and does not introduce any changes or new
security considerations.

5.  Operational Considerations

At the time of this writing, the behavior of most DNS server implementations is to set the TC flag
only if none of the available glue records fit in a response over UDP transport. The updated
requirements in this document might lead to an increase in the fraction of UDP responses with
the TC flag set and, consequently, an increase in the number of queries received over TCP
transport.

Andrews, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9471

DNS Glue Requirements

September 2023

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and specification" STD 13
,
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[CZDS]

[DIG]

[FLAGDAY2020]

[RFC2931]

[RFC4033]

[RFC4034]

ICANN "Centralized Zone Data Service" <https://czds.icann.org/>

,

,

.

Wikipedia "dig (command)"
Dig_(command)>

,

.

, September 2023,

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/

Various DNS software and service providers "DNS Flag Day 2020"

,

, October

2020,

<https://dnsflagday.net/2020/>

.

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "DNS Request and Transaction Signatures ( SIG(0)s )" RFC 2931
DOI 10.17487/RFC2931
rfc2931>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2000,

,

.

,

,

Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
,
,
Introduction and Requirements" RFC 4033 DOI 10.17487/RFC4033
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4033>

, and

.

S. Rose "DNS Security

,

, March 2005,

,

Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
,
the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4034 DOI 10.17487/RFC4034
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4034>

, and

,

,

,

.

S. Rose "Resource Records for

, March 2005,

Andrews, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9471

DNS Glue Requirements

September 2023

[RFC4035]

[RFC6891]

[RFC8499]

[RFC8945]

,

Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
,
Modifications for the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4035 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4035

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4035>

S. Rose "Protocol

, March 2005,

, and
,

,
,

,

.

Damas, J. Graff, M.
,
STD 75 RFC 6891 DOI 10.17487/RFC6891
,
editor.org/info/rfc6891>

, and

,

.

P. Vixie "Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS(0))"

,

,

, April 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

Hoffman, P. Sullivan, A.
,
8499 DOI 10.17487/RFC8499
,
rfc8499>

, and

.

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2019,

,

,

,

,

,
,

Dupont, F. Morris, S. Vixie, P. Eastlake 3rd, D. Gudmundsson, O.
Wellington "Secret Key Transaction Authentication for DNS (TSIG)" STD 93 RFC
8945 DOI 10.17487/RFC8945
,
rfc8945>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2020,

, and
,

B.

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

Joe Abley David Blacka Brian Dickson Kazunori Fujiwara Paul
The authors wish to thank
Hoffman Geoff Huston John R. Levine Jared Mauch George Michaelson Yasuhiro Orange
Morishita Benno Overeinder Hugo Salgado Shinta Sato Puneet Sood Petr Spacek Ralf Weber
,
,
,
Tim Wicinski Suzanne Woolf
, and other members of the DNSOP Working Group for their input.
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

M. Andrews
ISC
Email:

 marka@isc.org

Shumon Huque
Salesforce
Email:

 shuque@gmail.com

Paul Wouters
Aiven
Email:

 paul.wouters@aiven.io

Duane Wessels
Verisign
Email:

 dwessels@verisign.com

Andrews, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

