Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9803
Standards Track
June 2025
2070-1721
G. Brown
ICANN

RFC 9803
Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) Mapping for
DNS Time-to-Live (TTL) Values

Abstract

This document describes an extension to the Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) that allows
EPP clients to manage the Time-to-Live (TTL) value for domain name delegation records.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9803
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Brown

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

1.2.  Extension Elements

1.2.1.  The <ttl:ttl> Element

1.2.1.1.  Element Content

1.2.1.2.  Supported DNS Record Types

1.2.1.3.  The <ttl:info> Element

1.2.2.  Examples

1.2.2.1.  Explicit TTL Value (<create> or <update> Command)

1.2.2.2.  Explicit TTL Value (<info> Policy Mode)

1.2.2.3.  Empty Value Indicating Default TTL (<create> or <update> Command, <info>

Default Mode)

1.2.2.4.  Custom Record Type (<create> or <update> Command, <info> Default Mode)

2.  EPP Command Mapping

2.1.  EPP Query Commands

2.1.1.  EPP <info> Command

2.1.1.1.  Default Mode

2.1.1.2.  Policy Mode

2.2.  EPP Transform Commands

2.2.1.  EPP <create> Command

2.2.2.  EPP <update> Command

3.  Server Processing of TTL Values

3.1.  Permitted Record Types

3.2.  Use of TTL Values in Delegation Records

4.  Out-of-Band Changes to TTL Values

5.  Operational Considerations

5.1.  Operational Impact of TTL Values

5.2.  When TTL Values Should Be Changed

3

4

4

4

5

5

6

6

6

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

11

13

13

15

16

16

17

17

17

17

18

Brown

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

5.3.  Changes to Server Policy

6.  Security Considerations

6.1.  Fast Flux DNS

6.2.  Compromised User Accounts

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  XML Namespace

7.2.  EPP Extension Registry

8.  Formal Syntax

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

18

18

18

18

19

19

19

19

22

22

23

24

24

The principal output of any domain name registry system is a DNS zone file, which contains the
delegation record(s) for names registered within a zone (such as a top-level domain). These
records typically include one or more NS records, but may also include DS records for domains
secured with DNSSEC
, and DNAME records for Internationalized Domain Name (IDN)
. A and/or AAAA records may also be published for nameservers where they
variants
are required by DNS resolvers to avoid an infinite loop.

[RFC9364]

[RFC6927]

Typically, the Time-to-Live (TTL) value (see
determined by the registry operator. However, in some circumstances it may be desirable to
allow the sponsoring client of a domain name to change the TTL values used for that domain's
delegation: for example, to reduce the amount of time required to complete a change of DNS
servers, DNSSEC deployment or key rollover, or to allow for fast rollback of such changes.

Section 5 of [RFC9499]

) of these records is

 and

[RFC5731]

This document describes an EPP extension to the domain name and host object mappings
(described in
or host object to change the TTL values of the resource record(s) associated with that object. It
also describes how EPP servers should handle TTLs specified by EPP clients and how both
parties coordinate to manage TTL values in response to changes in operational or security
requirements.

, respectively) that allows the sponsor of a domain name

[RFC5732]

Brown

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

In this document's examples, "C:" represents lines sent by a protocol client and "S:" represents
lines returned by a protocol server. Indentation and white space in these examples are provided
only to illustrate element relationships and are not required features of this protocol.

A protocol client that is authorized to manage an existing object is described as a "sponsoring"
client throughout this document.

XML is case sensitive. Unless stated otherwise, the XML specifications and examples provided in
this document
conforming implementation.

 be interpreted in the character case presented in order to develop a

MUST

EPP uses XML namespaces to provide an extensible object management framework and to
identify schemas required for XML instance parsing and validation. These namespaces and
schema definitions are used to identify both the base protocol schema and the schemas for
managed objects.

The XML namespace prefixes used in these examples (such as the string ttl in ttl:create) are
solely for illustrative purposes. A conforming implementation
or any other specific namespace prefixes.

 require the use of these

MUST NOT

In accordance with Section 3.2.2.1 of XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes
allowable lexical representations for the xs:boolean datatype are the strings "0" and "false" for
the concept 'false' and the strings "1" and "true" for the concept 'true'. Implementations
support both styles of lexical representation.

[XSD-DATATYPES]

MUST

, the

1.2.  Extension Elements

This extension adds additional elements to the EPP domain and host mappings.

1.2.1.  The <ttl:ttl> Element

The <ttl:ttl> element is used to define TTL values for the DNS resource records associated
with domain and host objects.

<ttl:ttl> elements have the optional following attributes, depending on whether they appear
in an EPP command or response:

Brown

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9803

"for"

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

REQUIRED
TTL value pertains. This attribute
"A", "AAAA" or "custom".

 in both commands and responses, and specifies the DNS record type to which the
 have one of the following values: "NS", "DS", "DNAME",

MUST

"custom"

If the value of the "for" attribute is "custom", then the <ttl:ttl> element
 also have a
"custom" attribute containing a DNS record type conforming with the regular expression in
Section 3.1 of [RFC6895]
RRTYPES]

. Additionally, the record type

 be registered with IANA in

MUST

MUST

.

[IANA-

"min"

MUST NOT
2.1.1). It is used by the server to indicate the lowest value that may be set.

 be present in EPP commands but

MAY

 be present in EPP responses (see Section

"default"

MUST NOT
2.1.1). It is used by the server to indicate the default value.

 be present in EPP commands but

MAY

 be present in EPP responses (see Section

"max"

MUST NOT
2.1.1). It is used by the server to indicate the highest value that may be set.

 be present in EPP commands but

 be present in EPP responses (see Section

MAY

When present, the value of the "min" attribute
attribute. The "default" attribute

MUST

MUST

 be lower than the value of the "max"

 be between the "min" and "max" values, inclusively.

1.2.1.1.  Element Content

The XML schema found in Section 8 of this document restricts the content of <ttl:ttl>
elements to be either:

1.

a non-negative integer, indicating the value of the TTL in seconds, or

2.

empty, in which case the server's default TTL for the given record type is to be applied.

1.2.1.2.  Supported DNS Record Types

To facilitate forward compatibility with future changes to the DNS protocol, this document does
not enumerate or restrict the DNS record types that can be included in the "custom" attribute of
the <ttl:ttl> element.

The regular expression that is used to validate the values of the "custom" attribute is based on
, and it is intended to match both existing and
the expression found in
future RRTYPE mnemonics. This eliminates the need to update this document in the event that
new DNS records that exist above a zone cut (

Section 3.1 of [RFC6895]

Section 7 of [RFC9499]

) are specified.

Nevertheless, EPP servers that implement this extension
 restrict the DNS record types that
are accepted in <create> and <update> commands, and included in <info> responses, allowing
only those types that are (a) registered in
zone cut.

 and (b) appropriate for use above a

[IANA-RRTYPES]

MUST

Brown

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

A server that receives a <create> or <update> command that attempts to set TTL values for
inapplicable DNS record types

 respond with a 2306 "Parameter value policy" error.

MUST

As an illustrative example, a server
record types for domain objects:

MAY

 allow clients to specify TTL values for the following

1.

NS;

2.

DS (if the server also implements

[RFC5910]

);

3.

DNAME (if the server implements IDN variants using DNAME records).

1.2.1.2.1.  Glue Records

Glue records are described in

Section 7 of [RFC9499]
.

Servers that implement host objects
AAAA records for host objects.

[RFC5732] MAY

 allow clients to specify TTL values for A and

A server supporting host objects that receives a command that attempts to set TTL values for A
and AAAA records on a domain object

 respond with a 2306 "Parameter value policy" error.

MUST

EPP servers that use the host attribute model (described in
clients to specify TTL values for A and AAAA records for domain objects.

Section 1.1 of [RFC5731] MAY

)

 allow

1.2.1.3.  The <ttl:info> Element

The <ttl:info> element is used by clients to request that the server include additional
information in <info> responses for domain and host objects.

It has a single
"false".

OPTIONAL

 "policy" attribute, which takes a boolean value with a default value of

The semantics of this element are described in Section 2.1.1.

Below is an example of a <ttl:info> element with an explicit "policy" attribute:

<ttl:info policy="true"/>

1.2.2.  Examples

1.2.2.1.  Explicit TTL Value (<create> or <update> Command)

<ttl:ttl for="NS">3600</ttl:ttl>

Brown

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

1.2.2.2.  Explicit TTL Value (<info> Policy Mode)

<ttl:ttl
  for="NS"
  min="60"
  default="86400"
  max="172800">3600</ttl:ttl>

1.2.2.3.  Empty Value Indicating Default TTL (<create> or <update> Command, <info>
Default Mode)

<ttl:ttl for="NS"/>

1.2.2.4.  Custom Record Type (<create> or <update> Command, <info> Default Mode)

<ttl:ttl
  for="custom"
  custom="NEWRRTYPE">3600</ttl:ttl>

2.  EPP Command Mapping

2.1.  EPP Query Commands

2.1.1.  EPP <info> Command

This extension defines an additional element for EPP <info> commands and responses for
domain and host objects.

The EPP <info> command is extended to support two different modes:

1.

The Default Mode (Section 2.1.1.1), which requests the inclusion of all non-default TTL
values in the response; and

2.

The Policy Mode (Section 2.1.1.2), which requests the inclusion of TTL information for all
supported DNS record types in the response, along with the minimum, default, and
maximum values for those records.

2.1.1.1.  Default Mode

If a server receives an <info> command for a domain or host object that includes a <ttl:info>
element with a "policy" attribute that is "0" or "false", then the EPP response
 contain
<ttl:ttl> records for all DNS record types that have non-default TTL values. These elements
MUST NOT

 have the "min", "default", and "max" attributes.

MUST

Below is an example domain <info> command with a <ttl:info> element with a "policy"
attribute that is "false":

Brown

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <info>
C:       <domain:info
C:        xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
C:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
C:       </domain:info>
C:     </info>
C:     <extension>
C:       <ttl:info
C:         xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0"
C:         policy="false"/>
C:     </extension>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

Below is an example domain <info> response to a command with a <ttl:info> element with a
"policy" attribute that is "false":

Brown

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

S: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
S: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:     <result code="1000">
S:       <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:     </result>
S:     <resData>
S:       <domain:infData
S:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
S:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
S:         <domain:roid>EXAMPLE1-REP</domain:roid>
S:         <domain:status s="ok"/>
S:         <domain:ns>
S:           <domain:hostObj>ns1.example.com</domain:hostObj>
S:           <domain:hostObj>ns1.example.net</domain:hostObj>
S:         </domain:ns>
S:         <domain:clID>ClientX</domain:clID>
S:         <domain:crID>ClientX</domain:crID>
S:         <domain:crDate>2023-11-08T10:14:55.0Z</domain:crDate>
S:         <domain:exDate>2024-11-08T10:14:55.0Z</domain:exDate>
S:       </domain:infData>
S:     </resData>
S:     <extension>
S:       <ttl:infData
S:         xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0">
S:         <ttl:ttl for="NS">172800</ttl:ttl>
S:         <ttl:ttl for="DS">300</ttl:ttl>
S:       </ttl:infData>
S:       <secDNS:infData
S:         xmlns:secDNS="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:secDNS-1.1">
S:         <secDNS:dsData>
S:           <secDNS:keyTag>12345</secDNS:keyTag>
S:           <secDNS:alg>13</secDNS:alg>
S:           <secDNS:digestType>2</secDNS:digestType>
S:           <secDNS:digest>49FD46E6C4B45C55D4AC</secDNS:digest>
S:         </secDNS:dsData>
S:       </secDNS:infData>
S:     </extension>
S:     <trID>
S:       <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:       <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:     </trID>
S:   </response>
S: </epp>

Below is an example host <info> command with a <ttl:info> element with a "policy" attribute
that is "false":

Brown

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <info>
C:       <host:info
C:        xmlns:host="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:host-1.0">
C:         <host:name>ns1.example.com</host:name>
C:       </host:info>
C:     </info>
C:     <extension>
C:       <ttl:info
C:         xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0"
C:         policy="false"/>
C:     </extension>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

Below is an example host <info> response to a command with a <ttl:info> element with a
"policy" attribute that is "false":

S: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
S: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:     <result code="1000">
S:       <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:     </result>
S:     <resData>
S:       <host:infData
S:         xmlns:host="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:host-1.0">
S:         <host:name>ns1.example.com</host:name>
S:         <host:roid>NS1_EXAMPLE1-REP</host:roid>
S:         <host:status s="ok"/>
S:         <host:addr ip="v4">192.0.2.2</host:addr>
S:         <host:addr ip="v6">2001:db8::8:800:200c:417a</host:addr>
S:         <host:clID>ClientX</host:clID>
S:         <host:crID>ClientX</host:crID>
S:         <host:crDate>2023-11-08T10:14:55.0Z</host:crDate>
S:       </host:infData>
S:     </resData>
S:     <extension>
S:       <ttl:infData
S:         xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0">
S:         <ttl:ttl for="A">172800</ttl:ttl>
S:         <ttl:ttl for="AAAA">86400</ttl:ttl>
S:       </ttl:infData>
S:     </extension>
S:     <trID>
S:       <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:       <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:     </trID>
S:   </response>
S: </epp>

Brown

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

2.1.1.2.  Policy Mode

If a server receives an <info> command for a domain or host object that includes a <ttl:info>
element with a "policy" attribute that is "1" or "true", then the EPP response
 contain
<ttl:ttl> records for all supported DNS record types, irrespective of whether those record
types are actually in use by the object in question. These elements
"default", and "max" attributes.

 have the "min",

MUST

MUST

Below is an example domain <info> command requesting the server policies:

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <info>
C:       <domain:info
C:        xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
C:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
C:       </domain:info>
C:     </info>
C:     <extension>
C:       <ttl:info
C:         xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0"
C:         policy="true"/>
C:     </extension>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

Below is an example domain <info> response providing the server policies:

S: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
S: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:     <result code="1000">
S:       <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:     </result>
S:     <resData>
S:       <domain:infData
S:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
S:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
S:         <domain:roid>EXAMPLE1-REP</domain:roid>
S:         <domain:status s="ok"/>
S:         <domain:ns>
S:           <domain:hostObj>ns1.example.com</domain:hostObj>
S:           <domain:hostObj>ns1.example.net</domain:hostObj>
S:         </domain:ns>
S:         <domain:clID>ClientX</domain:clID>
S:         <domain:crID>ClientX</domain:crID>
S:         <domain:crDate>2023-11-08T10:14:55.0Z</domain:crDate>
S:         <domain:exDate>2024-11-08T10:14:55.0Z</domain:exDate>
S:       </domain:infData>
S:     </resData>
S:     <extension>
S:       <ttl:infData
S:         xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0">

Brown

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

S:         <ttl:ttl for="NS"
S:           min="3600"
S:           default="86400"
S:           max="172800">172800</ttl:ttl>
S:         <ttl:ttl for="DS"
S:           min="60"
S:           default="86400"
S:           max="172800">300</ttl:ttl>
S:       </ttl:infData>
S:       <secDNS:infData
S:         xmlns:secDNS="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:secDNS-1.1">
S:         <secDNS:dsData>
S:           <secDNS:keyTag>12345</secDNS:keyTag>
S:           <secDNS:alg>13</secDNS:alg>
S:           <secDNS:digestType>2</secDNS:digestType>
S:           <secDNS:digest>49FD46E6C4B45C55D4AC</secDNS:digest>
S:         </secDNS:dsData>
S:       </secDNS:infData>
S:     </extension>
S:     <trID>
S:       <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:       <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:     </trID>
S:   </response>
S: </epp>

Below is an example host <info> command requesting the server policies:

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <info>
C:       <host:info
C:        xmlns:host="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:host-1.0">
C:         <host:name>ns1.example.com</host:name>
C:       </host:info>
C:     </info>
C:     <extension>
C:       <ttl:info
C:         xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0"
C:         policy="true"/>
C:     </extension>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

Below is an example host <info> response providing the server policies:

Brown

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

S: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
S: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
S:   <response>
S:     <result code="1000">
S:       <msg>Command completed successfully</msg>
S:     </result>
S:     <resData>
S:       <host:infData
S:         xmlns:host="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:host-1.0">
S:         <host:name>ns1.example.com</host:name>
S:         <host:roid>NS1_EXAMPLE1-REP</host:roid>
S:         <host:status s="ok"/>
S:         <host:addr ip="v4">192.0.2.2</host:addr>
S:         <host:addr ip="v6">2001:db8::8:800:200c:417a</host:addr>
S:         <host:clID>ClientX</host:clID>
S:         <host:crID>ClientX</host:crID>
S:         <host:crDate>2023-11-08T10:14:55.0Z</host:crDate>
S:       </host:infData>
S:     </resData>
S:     <extension>
S:       <ttl:infData
S:         xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0">
S:         <ttl:ttl for="A"
S:           min="3600"
S:           default="86400"
S:           max="172800">172800</ttl:ttl>
S:         <ttl:ttl for="AAAA"
S:           min="3600"
S:           default="86400"
S:           max="172800">86400</ttl:ttl>
S:       </ttl:infData>
S:     </extension>
S:     <trID>
S:       <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
S:       <svTRID>54322-XYZ</svTRID>
S:     </trID>
S:   </response>
S: </epp>

2.2.  EPP Transform Commands

2.2.1.  EPP <create> Command

This extension defines an additional element for EPP <create> commands for domain and host
objects.

The <command> element of the <create> command
 contain a <ttl:create> element. This element
MAY
records as described in Section 1.2.

MAY

 contain an <extension> element that
 contain one or more <ttl:ttl>

MUST

If an EPP server receives a <create> command containing a TTL value that is outside the
server's permitted range, it
response.

 reject the command with a 2004 "Parameter value range error"

MUST

Brown

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

Below is an example domain <create> command:

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <create>
C:       <domain:create
C:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
C:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
C:         <domain:period unit="y">1</domain:period>
C:         <domain:ns>
C:           <domain:hostObj>ns1.example.com</domain:hostObj>
C:           <domain:hostObj>ns1.example.net</domain:hostObj>
C:         </domain:ns>
C:         <domain:authInfo>
C:           <domain:pw/>
C:         </domain:authInfo>
C:       </domain:create>
C:     </create>
C:     <extension>
C:       <ttl:create
C:         xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0">
C:         <ttl:ttl for="NS">172800</ttl:ttl>
C:         <ttl:ttl for="DS">300</ttl:ttl>
C:       </ttl:create>
C:       <secDNS:create
C:         xmlns:secDNS="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:secDNS-1.1">
C:         <secDNS:dsData>
C:           <secDNS:keyTag>12345</secDNS:keyTag>
C:           <secDNS:alg>13</secDNS:alg>
C:           <secDNS:digestType>2</secDNS:digestType>
C:           <secDNS:digest>49FD46E6C4B45C55D4AC</secDNS:digest>
C:         </secDNS:dsData>
C:       </secDNS:create>
C:     </extension>
C:     <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

Below is an example host <create> command:

Brown

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <create>
C:       <host:create
C:         xmlns:host="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:host-1.0">
C:         <host:name>ns1.example.com</host:name>
C:         <host:addr ip="v4">192.0.2.2</host:addr>
C:         <host:addr ip="v6">2001:db8::8:800:200c:417a</host:addr>
C:       </host:create>
C:     </create>
C:     <extension>
C:       <ttl:create
C:         xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0">
C:         <ttl:ttl for="A"/>
C:         <ttl:ttl for="AAAA">86400</ttl:ttl>
C:       </ttl:create>
C:     </extension>
C:     <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

2.2.2.  EPP <update> Command

This extension defines an additional element for EPP <update> commands for domain and host
objects.

The <command> element of the <update> command
 contain a <ttl:update> element. This element
MAY
records as described in Section 1.2.

MAY

 contain an <extension> element that
 contain one or more <ttl:ttl>

MUST

If an EPP server receives an <update> command containing a TTL value that is outside the
server's permitted range, it
response.

 reject the command with a 2004 "Parameter value range error"

MUST

Below is an example domain <update> command:

Brown

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <update>
C:       <domain:update
C:         xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0">
C:         <domain:name>example.com</domain:name>
C:       </domain:update>
C:     </update>
C:     <extension>
C:       <ttl:update
C:         xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0">
C:         <ttl:ttl for="NS"/>
C:         <ttl:ttl for="custom"
C:           custom="DELEG"/>
C:         <ttl:ttl for="DS">86400</ttl:ttl>
C:       </ttl:update>
C:     </extension>
C:     <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

Below is an example host <update> command:

C: <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
C: <epp xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp-1.0">
C:   <command>
C:     <update>
C:       <host:update
C:         xmlns:host="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:host-1.0">
C:         <host:name>ns1.example.com</host:name>
C:       </host:update>
C:     </update>
C:     <extension>
C:       <ttl:update
C:         xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0">
C:         <ttl:ttl for="A">86400</ttl:ttl>
C:         <ttl:ttl for="AAAA">3600</ttl:ttl>
C:       </ttl:update>
C:     </extension>
C:     <clTRID>ABC-12345</clTRID>
C:   </command>
C: </epp>

3.  Server Processing of TTL Values

3.1.  Permitted Record Types

EPP servers
clients to specify TTL values for DS records only.

MAY

 restrict the supported DNS record types. For example, a server

MAY

 allow

Brown

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

A server that receives a <create> or <update> command that includes a restricted record type
MUST

 respond with a 2306 "Parameter value policy" error.

Clients can discover the DNS record types for which an EPP server permits TTL values to be
changed by performing a Policy Mode <info> command, as outlined in Section 2.1.1.2.

3.2.  Use of TTL Values in Delegation Records

EPP servers that implement this extension
the TTL values of records published in the DNS for domain and (if supported) host objects.
Server operators
described in Section 5 and Section 6.

 disregard these values in order to address security and stability issues, as

 use the values provided by EPP clients for

SHOULD

MAY

EPP servers that use the host attribute model
specified for the domain object when publishing NS, A, and/or AAAA records derived from host
attributes.

 use any NS, A, and/or AAAA TTL values

SHOULD

4.  Out-of-Band Changes to TTL Values

In order to address operational or security issues, EPP server operators
TTL values out-of-band (that is, not in response to an <update> command received from the
sponsoring client).

 make changes to

MAY

Server operators
default value a certain amount of time after an update has been made.

 also implement automatic reset of TTL values, so that they revert to the

MAY

If a TTL value is changed out-of-band, EPP server operators
using the EPP Change Poll Extension
servers to notify clients of changes to objects under their sponsorship.

[RFC8590]

MAY

, which provides a generalized method for EPP

 notify the sponsoring client

5.  Operational Considerations

5.1.  Operational Impact of TTL Values

Registry operators must consider the balance between registrants' desire for changes to domains
to be visible in the DNS quickly, and the increased DNS query traffic that short TTLs can bring.

SHOULD

Registry operators
values that are narrower than the values permitted in the XML schema in Section 8 (which were
chosen to allow any TTL permitted in DNS records). This is in order to prevent scenarios where
an excessively high or low TTL causes operational issues on either side of the zone cut.

 implement limits on the maximum and minimum accepted TTL

Section 4 describes how server operators
address operational or security issues, or only permit changes for limited time periods (after
which TTLs revert to the default).

 unilaterally change TTL values in order to

MAY

Brown

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

5.2.  When TTL Values Should Be Changed

A common operational mistake is changing the DNS record TTLs during or after the planned
change to the records themselves. This arises due to a misunderstanding about how TTLs work.

RECOMMENDED

 that guidance be provided to users so they are aware that changes to a TTL

It is
are only effective in shortening transition periods if implemented a period of time (at least equal
to the current TTL) before the planned change. The latency between receipt of the <update>
command and the actual publication of the changes in the DNS should also be taken into
consideration in this calculation.

5.3.  Changes to Server Policy

Registry operators may change their policies relating to TTL values from time to time. Previously
configured TTL values may consequently fall outside a newly applied policy. This document
places no obligation on EPP server operators in respect of these values, and server operators
may, as part of a policy change, change the TTL values specified by clients for domain and host
objects. Section 4 describes how such out-of-band changes should be carried out.

6.  Security Considerations

6.1.  Fast Flux DNS

Some malicious actors use a technique called "fast flux DNS"
DNS configuration for a zone in order to evade takedown and law enforcement activity. Server
operators should take this into consideration when setting the lower limit on TTL values, since a
short TTL on delegations may enhance the effectiveness of fast flux techniques on evasion.

 to rapidly change the

[SAC-025]

Client implementations that provide an interface for customers to configure TTL values for
domain names should consider implementing controls to deter and mitigate abusive behavior,
[SAC-025]
.
such as those outlined in the "Current and Possible Mitigation Alternatives" section of

6.2.  Compromised User Accounts

An attacker who obtains access to a customer account at a domain registrar that supports this
extension could make unauthorized changes to the NS and/or glue records for a domain, and
then increase the associated TTLs so that the changes persist in caches for a long time after the
attack has been detected.

Client implementations that provide an interface for customers to configure TTL values for
domain names should consider implementing upper limits in order to reduce the impact of
account compromise, in addition to best practices relating to credential management, multi-
factor authentication, risk-based access control, and so on.

Brown

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  XML Namespace

This document uses URNs to describe XML namespaces and XML schemas conforming to a
registry mechanism described in
IANA:

. The following URI assignments have been made by

[RFC3688]

Registration for the TTL namespace:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

IESG

None. Namespace URIs do not represent an XML specification.

Registration for the TTL XML schema:

urn:ietf:params:xml:schema:epp:ttl-1.0

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

IESG
See Section 8 of this document.

7.2.  EPP Extension Registry

The EPP extension described in this document has been registered by IANA in the "Extensions
for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" registry described in
registration are as follows:

[RFC7451]

. The details of the

Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) Mapping for DNS Time-to-Live

Standards Track

Name of Extension:
(TTL) Values
Document Status:
Reference:
Registrant:
TLDs:
IPR Disclosure:
Active
Status:
None
Notes:

Any

RFC 9803
IESG

None

8.  Formal Syntax

The formal syntax presented here is a complete schema representation of the extension suitable
for automated validation of EPP XML instances.

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<schema

Brown

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
  targetNamespace="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0"
  xmlns:ttl="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:epp:ttl-1.0"
  elementFormDefault="qualified">
  <annotation>
    <documentation>
      Extensible Provisioning Protocol v1.0 extension
      schema for Time-to-Live (TTL) Values for domain
      and host objects.
    </documentation>
  </annotation>

  <element name="info">
    <complexType>
      <attribute name="policy" type="boolean" default="false"/>
    </complexType>
  </element>

  <!--
    <ttl> elements can appear in <create> and
    <update> commands, and <info> responses
  -->

  <element name="create" type="ttl:commandContainer">
    <unique name="uniqueRRTypeForCreate">
      <selector xpath="ttl:ttl"/>
      <field xpath="@for"/>
    </unique>
  </element>

  <element name="update" type="ttl:commandContainer">
    <unique name="uniqueRRTypeForUpdate">
      <selector xpath="ttl:ttl"/>
      <field xpath="@for"/>
    </unique>
  </element>

  <element name="infData" type="ttl:responseContainer">
    <unique name="uniqueRRTypeForInfo">
      <selector xpath="ttl:ttl"/>
      <field xpath="@for"/>
    </unique>
  </element>

  <complexType name="commandContainer">
    <sequence>
      <element
        name="ttl"
        type="ttl:commandTTLType"
        minOccurs="1"
        maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>

  <complexType name="responseContainer">
    <sequence>
      <element
        name="ttl"

Brown

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

        type="ttl:responseTTLType"
        minOccurs="1"
        maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
    </sequence>
  </complexType>

  <complexType name="commandTTLType">
    <simpleContent>
      <extension base="ttl:ttlOrNull">
        <attribute
          name="for"
          type="ttl:rrType"
          use="required"/>

        <attribute
          name="custom"
          type="ttl:customRRType"/>
      </extension>
    </simpleContent>
  </complexType>

  <complexType name="responseTTLType">
    <simpleContent>
      <extension base="ttl:ttlOrNull">
        <attribute
          name="for"
          type="ttl:rrType"
          use="required"/>

        <attribute
          name="custom"
          type="ttl:customRRType"/>

        <attribute
          name="min"
          type="ttl:ttlValue"/>

        <attribute
          name="default"
          type="ttl:ttlValue"/>

        <attribute
          name="max"
          type="ttl:ttlValue"/>
      </extension>
    </simpleContent>
  </complexType>

  <!--
    union type allowing the element to either contain
    nothing or a TTL value
  -->
  <simpleType name="ttlOrNull">
    <union
      memberTypes="ttl:emptyValue ttl:ttlValue"/>
  </simpleType>

  <!-- empty value type -->

Brown

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

  <simpleType name="emptyValue">
    <restriction base="token">
      <length value="0"/>
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>

  <!-- TTL value type -->
  <simpleType name="ttlValue">
    <restriction base="nonNegativeInteger">
      <minInclusive value="0"/>
      <maxInclusive value="2147483647"/>
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>

  <!-- resource record mnemonic type -->
  <simpleType name="rrType">
    <restriction base="token">
      <enumeration value="NS" />
      <enumeration value="DS" />
      <enumeration value="DNAME" />
      <enumeration value="A" />
      <enumeration value="AAAA" />
      <enumeration value="custom" />
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>

  <!-- custom resource record type -->
  <simpleType name="customRRType">
    <restriction base="token">
      <pattern value="A|[A-Z][A-Z0-9\-]*[A-Z0-9]"/>
    </restriction>
  </simpleType>
</schema>

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[IANA-RRTYPES]

IANA "Resource Record (RR) TYPEs" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/dns-

,

,

parameters>

.

[RFC2119]

[RFC3688]

[RFC5731]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
,
January 2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>

,
.

,

,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) Domain Name Mapping"
,
STD 69 RFC 5731 DOI 10.17487/RFC5731
editor.org/info/rfc5731>

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2009,

,

,

.

Brown

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

[RFC5732]

[RFC5910]

[RFC6895]

[RFC8174]

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) Host Mapping" STD 69
RFC 5732 DOI 10.17487/RFC5732
, August 2009,
rfc5732>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

 and

S. Hollenbeck "Domain Name System (DNS) Security Extensions

Gould, J.
Mapping for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP)" RFC 5910 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5910>
10.17487/RFC5910
.

, May 2010,

,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Domain Name System (DNS) IANA Considerations" BCP 42
,
RFC 6895 DOI 10.17487/RFC6895
, April 2013,
rfc6895>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

[XSD-DATATYPES]

,

 and

Biron, P., Ed.

A. Malhotra, Ed. "XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes Second
<https://www.w3.org/TR/2004/

Edition" W3C Recommendation
, October 2004,
REC-xmlschema-2-20041028/> Latest version available at <https://www.w3.org/
TR/xmlschema-2/>
.

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC6927]

[RFC7451]

[RFC8590]

[RFC9364]

[RFC9499]

[SAC-025]

 and

Levine, J.
,
Level Domains" RFC 6927 DOI 10.17487/RFC6927
,
editor.org/info/rfc6927>
.

P. Hoffman "Variants in Second-Level Names Registered in Top-
<https://www.rfc-

, May 2013,

,

,

Hollenbeck, S. "Extension Registry for the Extensible Provisioning Protocol"
RFC 7451 DOI 10.17487/RFC7451
info/rfc7451>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2015,

,

.

 and

Gould, J.
Protocol (EPP)" RFC 8590 DOI 10.17487/RFC8590
editor.org/info/rfc8590>
.

K. Feher "Change Poll Extension for the Extensible Provisioning
<https://www.rfc-

, May 2019,

,

,

,

Hoffman, P. "DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC)" BCP 237 RFC 9364 DOI
10.17487/RFC9364

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9364>

, February 2023,

,

,

,

,

.

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC9499

 and

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC 9499 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9499>

, March 2024,

,

,

,

,

.

ICANN Security and Stability Advisory Committee (SSAC) "SSAC Advisory on
Fast Flux Hosting and DNS" SAC 025
system/files/files/sac-025-en.pdf>

<https://www.icann.org/en/

, January 2008,

,

,

.

Brown

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9803

TTL Mapping for EPP

June 2025

Acknowledgments

The author wishes to thank the following people for their advice and feedback during the
development of this document:

• James Gould

• Hugo Salgado

• Patrick Mevzek

• Rick Wilhelm

• Marc Groeneweg

• Ties de Kock

• Tim Wicinski

• Jasdip Singh

Author's Address

Gavin Brown
ICANN
12025 Waterfront Drive, Suite 300
Los Angeles CA 90292
,
United States of America
Email:
URI:

gavin.brown@icann.org

https://www.icann.org/

Brown

Standards Track

Page 24

