Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9200
Standards Track
August 2022
2070-1721
L. Seitz
Combitech

G. Selander
Ericsson

E. Wahlstroem S. Erdtman
Spotify AB

H. Tschofenig
Arm Ltd.

RFC 9200
Authentication and Authorization for Constrained
Environments Using the OAuth 2.0 Framework (ACE-
OAuth)

Abstract

This specification defines a framework for authentication and authorization in Internet of Things
(IoT) environments called ACE‑OAuth. The framework is based on a set of building blocks
including OAuth 2.0 and the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP), thus transforming a well-
known and widely used authorization solution into a form suitable for IoT devices. Existing
specifications are used where possible, but extensions are added and profiles are defined to
better serve the IoT use cases.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9200
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Overview

3.1.  OAuth 2.0

3.2.  CoAP

4.  Protocol Interactions

5.  Framework

5.1.  Discovering Authorization Servers

5.2.  Unauthorized Resource Request Message

5.3.  AS Request Creation Hints

5.3.1.  The Client-Nonce Parameter

5.4.  Authorization Grants

5.5.  Client Credentials

5.6.  AS Authentication

5.7.  The Authorization Endpoint

5.8.  The Token Endpoint

5.8.1.  Client-to-AS Request

5.8.2.  AS-to-Client Response

5.8.3.  Error Response

5.8.4.  Request and Response Parameters

5.8.4.1.  Grant Type

5.8.4.2.  Token Type

5.8.4.3.  Profile

5.8.4.4.  Client-Nonce

5.8.5.  Mapping Parameters to CBOR

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

5.9.  The Introspection Endpoint

5.9.1.  Introspection Request

5.9.2.  Introspection Response

5.9.3.  Error Response

5.9.4.  Mapping Introspection Parameters to CBOR

5.10. The Access Token

5.10.1.  The Authorization Information Endpoint

5.10.1.1.  Verifying an Access Token

5.10.1.2.  Protecting the Authorization Information Endpoint

5.10.2.  Client Requests to the RS

5.10.3.  Token Expiration

5.10.4.  Key Expiration

6.  Security Considerations

6.1.  Protecting Tokens

6.2.  Communication Security

6.3.  Long-Term Credentials

6.4.  Unprotected AS Request Creation Hints

6.5.  Minimal Security Requirements for Communication

6.6.  Token Freshness and Expiration

6.7.  Combining Profiles

6.8.  Unprotected Information

6.9.  Identifying Audiences

6.10. Denial of Service Against or with Introspection

7.  Privacy Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  ACE Authorization Server Request Creation Hints

8.2.  CoRE Resource Types

8.3.  OAuth Extensions Errors

8.4.  OAuth Error Code CBOR Mappings

8.5.  OAuth Grant Type CBOR Mappings

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

8.6.  OAuth Access Token Types

8.7.  OAuth Access Token Type CBOR Mappings

8.7.1.  Initial Registry Contents

8.8.  ACE Profiles

8.9.  OAuth Parameters

8.10. OAuth Parameters CBOR Mappings

8.11. OAuth Introspection Response Parameters

8.12. OAuth Token Introspection Response CBOR Mappings

8.13. JSON Web Token Claims

8.14. CBOR Web Token Claims

8.15. Media Type Registration

8.16. CoAP Content-Formats

8.17. Expert Review Instructions

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Design Justification

Appendix B.  Roles and Responsibilities

Appendix C.  Requirements on Profiles

Appendix D.  Assumptions on AS Knowledge about the C and RS

Appendix E.  Differences to OAuth 2.0

Appendix F.  Deployment Examples

F.1.  Local Token Validation

F.2.  Introspection Aided Token Validation

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

1.  Introduction

Authorization is the process for granting approval to an entity to access a generic resource
[RFC4949]
. The authorization task itself can best be described as granting access to a requesting
client for a resource hosted on a device, i.e., the resource server (RS). This exchange is mediated
by one or multiple authorization servers (ASes). Managing authorization for a large number of
devices and users can be a complex task.

While prior work on authorization solutions for the Web and for the mobile environment also
applies to the Internet of Things (IoT) environment, many IoT devices are constrained, for
example, in terms of processing capabilities, available memory, etc. For such devices, the
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)
used instead of HTTP to implement the communication flows of this specification.

 can alleviate some resource concerns when

[RFC7252]

Appendix A gives an overview of the constraints considered in this design, and a more detailed
treatment of constraints can be found in
. This design aims to accommodate different
IoT deployments as well as a continuous range of device and network capabilities. Taking energy
consumption as an example, at one end, there are energy-harvesting or battery-powered devices
that have a tight power budget; on the other end, there are mains-powered devices; and all levels
exist in between.

[RFC7228]

Hence, IoT devices may be very different in terms of available processing and message exchange
capabilities, and there is a need to support many different authorization use cases

[RFC7744]
.

This specification describes a framework for Authentication and Authorization for Constrained
, thereby extending authorization to
Environments (ACE) built on reuse of OAuth 2.0
Internet of Things devices. This specification contains the necessary building blocks for adjusting
OAuth 2.0 to IoT environments.

[RFC6749]

. Such profiles may specify the use of the framework for a specific security protocol

Profiles of this framework are available in separate specifications, such as
[RFC9203]
and the underlying transports for use in a specific deployment environment to improve
interoperability. Implementations may claim conformance with a specific profile, whereby
implementations utilizing the same profile interoperate, while implementations of different
profiles are not expected to be interoperable. More powerful devices, such as mobile phones and
tablets, may implement multiple profiles and will therefore be able to interact with a wider
range of constrained devices. Requirements on profiles are described at contextually appropriate
places throughout this specification and also summarized in Appendix C.

[RFC9202]

 or

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Certain security-related terms, such as "authentication", "authorization", "confidentiality", "(data)
integrity", "message authentication code", and "verify", are taken from

[RFC4949]
.

Since exchanges in this specification are described as RESTful protocol interactions, HTTP
[RFC9110]
Transfer (REST) architecture.)

 offers useful terminology. (Note that "RESTful" refers to the Representational State

Terminology for entities in the architecture is defined in OAuth 2.0
resource server (RS), and authorization server (AS).

[RFC6749]

, such as client (C),

Note that the term "endpoint" is used here following its OAuth definition, which is to denote
resources, such as token and introspection at the AS and authz-info at the RS (see Section 5.10.1
for a definition of the authz-info endpoint). The CoAP definition, which is "[a]n entity
participating in the CoAP protocol"

, is not used in this specification.

[RFC7252]

The specification in this document is called the "framework" or "ACE framework". When
referring to "profiles of this framework", it refers to additional specifications that define the use
of this specification with concrete transport and communication security protocols (e.g., CoAP
over DTLS).

The term "Access Information" is used for parameters, other than the access token, provided to
the client by the AS to enable it to access the RS (e.g., public key of the RS or profile supported by
RS).

The term "authorization information" is used to denote all information, including the claims of
relevant access tokens, that an RS uses to determine whether an access request should be
granted.

Throughout this document, examples for CBOR data items are expressed in CBOR extended
diagnostic notation as defined in
("diagnostic notation"), unless noted otherwise. We often use diagnostic notation comments to
provide a textual representation of the numeric parameter names and values.

Appendix G of [RFC8610]

Section 8 of [RFC8949]

 and

3.  Overview

This specification defines the ACE framework for authorization in the Internet of Things
environment. It consists of a set of building blocks.

The basic block is the OAuth 2.0
Many IoT devices can support OAuth 2.0 without any additional extensions, but for certain
constrained settings, additional profiling is needed.

 framework, which enjoys widespread deployment.

[RFC6749]

Another building block is the lightweight web transfer protocol CoAP
communication environments where HTTP is not appropriate. CoAP typically runs on top of UDP,
which further reduces overhead and message exchanges. While this specification defines
extensions for the use of OAuth over CoAP, other underlying protocols are not prohibited from
being supported in the future, such as HTTP/2
(MQTT)

, Message Queuing Telemetry Transport

, Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)

[RFC9113]
[BLE]

. Note that this

, and QUIC

[MQTT5.0]

[RFC9000]

[RFC7252]

, for those

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

document specifies protocol exchanges in terms of RESTful verbs, such as GET and POST. Future
profiles using protocols that do not support these verbs
protocol messages are transmitted instead.

 specify how the corresponding

MUST

A third building block is the Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)
encodings where JSON
for small code and message size. Self-contained tokens and protocol message payloads are
encoded in CBOR when CoAP is used. When CoAP is not used, the use of CBOR remains
.
RECOMMENDED

 is not sufficiently compact. CBOR is a binary encoding designed

[RFC8949]

[RFC8259]

, for

A fourth building block is CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)
object-level layer security as an alternative or complement to transport layer security (DTLS
[RFC6347] [RFC9147]
). COSE is used to secure self-contained tokens, such as
proof-of-possession (PoP) tokens, which are an extension to the OAuth bearer tokens. The default
token format is defined in CBOR Web Token (CWT)
CoAP using COSE can be provided with Object Security for Constrained RESTful Environments
(OSCORE)

. Application-layer security for

, which enables

[RFC8613]
.

[RFC8446]

[RFC8152]

[RFC8392]

 or TLS

With the building blocks listed above, solutions satisfying various IoT device and network
constraints are possible. A list of constraints is described in detail in
of how the building blocks mentioned above relate to the various constraints can be found in
Appendix A.

[RFC7228]

, and a description

Luckily, not every IoT device suffers from all constraints. Nevertheless, the ACE framework takes
all these aspects into account and allows several different deployment variants to coexist, rather
than mandating a one-size-fits-all solution. It is important to cover the wide range of possible
interworking use cases and the different requirements from a security point of view. Once IoT
deployments mature, popular deployment variants will be documented in the form of ACE
profiles.

3.1.  OAuth 2.0

The OAuth 2.0 authorization framework enables a client to obtain scoped access to a resource
with the permission of a resource owner. Authorization information, or references to it, is passed
between the nodes using access tokens. These access tokens are issued to clients by an
authorization server with the approval of the resource owner. The client uses the access token to
access the protected resources hosted by the resource server.

A number of OAuth 2.0 terms are used within this specification:

Access Tokens:

Access tokens are credentials needed to access protected resources. An access token is a data
structure representing authorization permissions issued by the AS to the client. Access tokens
are generated by the AS and consumed by the RS. The access token content is opaque to the
client.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Access tokens can have different formats and various methods of utilization (e.g.,
cryptographic properties) based on the security requirements of the given deployment.

Introspection:

Introspection is a method for a resource server, or potentially a client, to query the
authorization server for the active state and content of a received access token. This is
particularly useful in those cases where the authorization decisions are very dynamic and/or
where the received access token itself is an opaque reference, rather than a self-contained
token. More information about introspection in OAuth 2.0 can be found in

[RFC7662]

.

Refresh Tokens:

Refresh tokens are credentials used to obtain access tokens. Refresh tokens are issued to the
client by the authorization server and are used to obtain a new access token when the current
access token expires or to obtain additional access tokens with identical or narrower scope
(such access tokens may have a shorter lifetime and fewer permissions than authorized by
the resource owner). Issuing a refresh token is optional at the discretion of the authorization
server. If the authorization server issues a refresh token, it is included when issuing an access
token (i.e., step (B) in Figure 1).

A refresh token in OAuth 2.0 is a string representing the authorization granted to the client by
the resource owner. The string is usually opaque to the client. The token denotes an identifier
used to retrieve the authorization information. Unlike access tokens, refresh tokens are
intended for use only with authorization servers and are never sent to resource servers. In
this framework, refresh tokens are encoded in binary instead of strings, if used.

Proof-of-Possession Tokens:

A token may be bound to a cryptographic key, which is then used to bind the token to a
request authorized by the token. Such tokens are called proof-of-possession tokens (or PoP
tokens).

The proof-of-possession security concept used here assumes that the AS acts as a trusted third
party that binds keys to tokens. In the case of access tokens, these so-called PoP keys are then
used by the client to demonstrate the possession of the secret to the RS when accessing the
resource. The RS, when receiving an access token, needs to verify that the key used by the
client matches the one bound to the access token. When this specification uses the term
"access token", it is assumed to be a PoP access token unless specifically stated otherwise.

The key bound to the token (the PoP key) may use either symmetric or asymmetric
cryptography. The appropriate choice of the kind of cryptography depends on the constraints
of the IoT devices as well as on the security requirements of the use case.

Symmetric PoP key:

The AS generates a random, symmetric PoP key. The key is either stored to be returned on
introspection calls or included in the token. Either the whole token or only the key
be encrypted in the latter case. The PoP key is also returned to client together with the
token, protected by the secure channel.

MUST

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Asymmetric PoP key:

An asymmetric key pair is generated by the client and the public key is sent to the AS (if it
does not already have knowledge of the client's public key). Information about the public
key, which is the PoP key in this case, is either stored to be returned on introspection calls
or included inside the token and sent back to the client. The resource server consuming
the token can identify the public key from the information in the token, which allows the
client to use the corresponding private key for the proof of possession.

The token is either a simple reference or a structured information object (e.g., CWT
[RFC8392]
). The choice of PoP
key does not necessarily imply a specific credential type for the integrity protection of the
token.

) protected by a cryptographic wrapper (e.g., COSE

[RFC8152]

Scopes and Permissions:

In OAuth 2.0, the client specifies the type of permissions it is seeking to obtain (via the scope
parameter) in the access token request. In turn, the AS may use the scope response parameter
to inform the client of the scope of the access token issued. As the client could be a
constrained device as well, this specification defines the use of CBOR encoding (see Section 5)
for such requests and responses.

The values of the scope parameter in OAuth 2.0 are expressed as a list of space-delimited,
case-sensitive strings with a semantic that is well known to the AS and the RS. More details
about the concept of scopes are found under

Section 3.3 of [RFC6749]
.

Claims:

Information carried in the access token or returned from introspection, called claims, is in the
form of name-value pairs. An access token may, for example, include a claim identifying the
AS that issued the token (via the iss claim) and what audience the access token is intended
for (via the aud claim). The audience of an access token can be a specific resource, one
resource, or many resource servers. The resource owner policies influence what claims are
put into the access token by the authorization server.

While the structure and encoding of the access token varies throughout deployments, a
standardized format has been defined with the JSON Web Token (JWT)
claims are encoded as a JSON object. In
defined as an equivalent format using CBOR encoding.

, where
, the CBOR Web Token (CWT) has been

[RFC8392]

[RFC7519]

Token and Introspection Endpoints:

The AS hosts the token endpoint that allows a client to request access tokens. The client makes
a POST request to the token endpoint on the AS and receives the access token in the response
(if the request was successful).

In some deployments, a token introspection endpoint is provided by the AS, which can be
used by the RS and potentially the client, if they need to request additional information
regarding a received access token. The requesting entity makes a POST request to the
introspection endpoint on the AS and receives information about the access token in the
response. (See "Introspection" above.)

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

3.2.  CoAP

CoAP is an application-layer protocol similar to HTTP but specifically designed for constrained
environments. CoAP typically uses datagram-oriented transport, such as UDP, where reordering
and loss of packets can occur. A security solution needs to take the latter aspects into account.

While HTTP uses headers and query strings to convey additional information about a request,
CoAP encodes such information into header parameters called 'options'.

CoAP supports application-layer fragmentation of the CoAP payloads through block-wise
transfers
options; therefore, data encoded in options has to be kept small.

. However, block-wise transfer does not increase the size limits of CoAP

[RFC7959]

. CoAP defines a number of proxy operations that require transport layer security to be

Transport layer security for CoAP can be provided by DTLS or TLS
[RFC9147]
terminated at the proxy. One approach for protecting CoAP communication end-to-end through
proxies, and also to support security for CoAP over a different transport in a uniform way, is to
provide security at the application layer using an object-based security mechanism, such as COSE
[RFC8152]
.

[RFC6347] [RFC8446]

One application of COSE is OSCORE
, which provides end-to-end confidentiality,
integrity and replay protection, and a secure binding between CoAP request and response
messages. In OSCORE, the CoAP messages are wrapped in COSE objects and sent using CoAP.

[RFC8613]

In this framework, the use of CoAP as replacement for HTTP is
constrained environments. For communication security, this framework does not make an
explicit protocol recommendation, since the choice depends on the requirements of the specific
application. DTLS
protocols fulfilling the requirements from Section 6.5 are also applicable.

 are mentioned as examples; other

[RFC6347] [RFC9147]

RECOMMENDED

 and OSCORE

[RFC8613]

 for use in

4.  Protocol Interactions

The ACE framework is based on the OAuth 2.0 protocol interactions using the token endpoint and
optionally the introspection endpoint. A client obtains an access token, and optionally a refresh
token, from an AS using the token endpoint and subsequently presents the access token to an RS
to gain access to a protected resource. In most deployments, the RS can process the access token
locally; however, in some cases, the RS may present it to the AS via the introspection endpoint to
get fresh information. These interactions are shown in Figure 1. An overview of various OAuth
concepts is provided in Section 3.1.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

+--------+                               +---------------+
|        |---(A)-- Token Request ------->|               |
|        |                               | Authorization |
|        |<--(B)-- Access Token ---------|    Server     |
|        |    + Access Information       |               |
|        |    + Refresh Token (optional) +---------------+
|        |                                      ^ |
|        |            Introspection Request  (D)| |
| Client |                         Response     | |(E)
|        |            (optional exchange)       | |
|        |                                      | v
|        |                               +--------------+
|        |---(C)-- Token + Request ----->|              |
|        |                               |   Resource   |
|        |<--(F)-- Protected Resource ---|    Server    |
|        |                               |              |
+--------+                               +--------------+

Figure 1: Basic Protocol Flow

Requesting an Access Token (A):

The client makes an access token request to the token endpoint at the AS. This framework
assumes the use of PoP access tokens (see Section 3.1 for a short description) wherein the AS
binds a key to an access token. The client may include permissions it seeks to obtain and
information about the credentials it wants to use for proof of possession (e.g., symmetric/
asymmetric cryptography or a reference to a specific key) of the access token.

Access Token Response (B):

If the request from the client has been successfully verified, authenticated, and authorized,
the AS returns an access token and optionally a refresh token. Note that only certain grant
types support refresh tokens. The AS can also return additional parameters, referred to as
"Access Information". In addition to the response parameters defined by OAuth 2.0 and the
PoP access token extension, this framework defines parameters that can be used to inform the
client about capabilities of the RS, e.g., the profile the RS supports. More information about
these parameters can be found in Section 5.8.4.

Resource Request (C):

The client interacts with the RS to request access to the protected resource and provides the
access token. The protocol to use between the client and the RS is not restricted to CoAP. HTTP,
[MQTT5.0]
HTTP/2
also viable candidates.

, Bluetooth Low Energy

[RFC9000]

[RFC9113]

, etc., are

, MQTT

, QUIC

[BLE]

Depending on the device limitations and the selected protocol, this exchange may be split up
into two parts:

(1)

the client sends the access token containing, or referencing, the authorization
information to the RS that will be used for subsequent resource requests by the client,
and

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

(2)

the client makes the resource access request using the communication security protocol
and other Access Information obtained from the AS.

The client and the RS mutually authenticate using the security protocol specified in the profile
(see step (B)) and the keys obtained in the access token or the Access Information. The RS
verifies that the token is integrity protected and originated by the AS. It then compares the
claims contained in the access token with the resource request. If the RS is online, validation
can be handed over to the AS using token introspection (see messages (D) and (E)) over HTTP
or CoAP.

Token Introspection Request (D):

A resource server may be configured to introspect the access token by including it in a request
to the introspection endpoint at that AS. Token introspection over CoAP is defined in Section
5.9 and for HTTP in

[RFC7662]
.

Note that token introspection is an optional step and can be omitted if the token is self-
contained and the resource server is prepared to perform the token validation on its own.

Token Introspection Response (E):

The AS validates the token and returns the most recent parameters, such as scope, audience,
validity, etc., associated with it back to the RS. The RS then uses the received parameters to
process the request to either accept or to deny it.

Protected Resource (F):

If the request from the client is authorized, the RS fulfills the request and returns a response
with the appropriate response code. The RS uses the dynamically established keys to protect
the response according to the communication security protocol used.

 and

[RFC7744]

[RFC7521]

). What grant

Section 4.4 of [RFC6749]

[RFC8628]
 describes many different IoT use

The OAuth 2.0 framework defines a number of "protocol flows" via grant types, which have been
extended further with extensions to OAuth 2.0 (such as
type works best depends on the usage scenario;
cases, but there are two grant types that cover a majority of these scenarios, namely the
authorization code grant (described in
(described in
apps running on smartphones and tablets that request access to IoT devices, a common scenario
in the smart home environment, where users need to go through an authentication and
authorization phase (at least during the initial setup phase). The native apps guidelines described
in
IoT devices where the OAuth client itself is constrained. In such a case, the resource owner has
prearranged access rights for the client with the authorization server, which is often
accomplished using a commissioning tool.

 are applicable to this use case. The client credentials grant is a good fit for use with

). The authorization code grant is a good fit for use with

) and the client credentials grant

Section 4.1 of [RFC6749]

[RFC8252]

The consent of the resource owner, for giving a client access to a protected resource, can be
provided dynamically as in the classical OAuth flows, or it could be preconfigured by the
resource owner as authorization policies at the AS, which the AS evaluates when a token request
arrives. The resource owner and the requesting party (i.e., client owner) are not shown in Figure
1.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

This framework supports a wide variety of communication security mechanisms between the
ACE entities, such as the client, AS, and RS. It is assumed that the client has been registered (also
called enrolled or onboarded) to an AS using a mechanism defined outside the scope of this
document. In practice, various techniques for onboarding have been used, such as factory-based
provisioning or the use of commissioning tools. Regardless of the onboarding technique, this
provisioning procedure implies that the client and the AS exchange credentials and
configuration parameters. These credentials are used to mutually authenticate each other and to
protect messages exchanged between the client and the AS.

It is also assumed that the RS has been registered with the AS, potentially in a similar way as the
client has been registered with the AS. Established keying material between the AS and the RS
allows the AS to apply cryptographic protection to the access token to ensure that its content
cannot be modified and, if needed, that the content is confidentiality protected. Confidentiality
protection of the access token content would be provided on top of confidentiality protection via
a communication security protocol.

The keying material necessary for establishing communication security between the C and RS is
dynamically established as part of the protocol described in this document.

At the start of the protocol, there is an optional discovery step where the client discovers the
resource server and the resources this server hosts. In this step, the client might also determine
what permissions are needed to access the protected resource. A generic procedure is described
in Section 5.1; profiles

 define other procedures for discovery.

MAY

In Bluetooth Low Energy, for example, advertisements are broadcast by a peripheral, including
information about the primary services. In CoAP, as a second example, a client can make a
request to "/.well-known/core" to obtain information about available resources, which are
returned in a standardized format, as described in

[RFC6690]
.

5.  Framework

The following sections detail the profiling and extensions of OAuth 2.0 for constrained
environments, which constitutes the ACE framework.

Credential Provisioning

In constrained environments, it cannot be assumed that the client and the RS are part of a
common key infrastructure. Therefore, the AS provisions credentials and associated
information to allow mutual authentication between the client and the RS. The resulting
security association between the client and the RS may then also be used to bind these
credentials to the access tokens the client uses.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Proof of Possession

The ACE framework, by default, implements proof of possession for access tokens, i.e., that the
token holder can prove being a holder of the key bound to the token. The binding is provided
by the cnf (confirmation) claim
possession. If a client needs to submit a new access token, e.g., to obtain additional access
rights, they can request that the AS binds this token to the same key as the previous one.

, indicating what key is used for proof of

[RFC8747]

ACE Profiles

The client or RS may be limited in the encodings or protocols it supports. To support a variety
of different deployment settings, specific interactions between the client and RS are defined in
an ACE profile. In the ACE framework, the AS is expected to manage the matching of
compatible profile choices between a client and an RS. The AS informs the client of the
selected profile using the ace_profile parameter in the token response.

OAuth 2.0 requires the use of TLS to protect the communication between the AS and client when
requesting an access token between the client and RS when accessing a resource and between
the AS and RS if introspection is used. In constrained settings, TLS is not always feasible or
desirable. Nevertheless, it is
REQUIRED
integrity protected, and protected against message replay. It is also
communicating endpoints perform mutual authentication. Furthermore, it
responses are bound to the requests in the sense that the receiver of a response can be certain
that the response actually belongs to a certain request. Note that setting up such a secure
communication may require some unprotected messages to be exchanged first (e.g., sending the
token from the client to the RS).

 that the communications named above are encrypted,

 be assured that

REQUIRED

 that the

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

 specify a communication security protocol

 specify a communication security protocol between the client and RS that provides

Profiles
the features required above. Profiles
 to be used between the client and AS that provides the features required above.
RECOMMENDED
Profiles
 to be
used between the RS and AS that provides the features required above. These recommendations
enable interoperability between different implementations without the need to define a new
profile if the communication between the C and AS, or between the RS and AS, is protected with a
different security protocol complying with the security requirements above.

 specify, for introspection, a communication security protocol

RECOMMENDED

In OAuth 2.0, the communication with the Token and the Introspection endpoints at the AS is
assumed to be via HTTP and may use Uri-query parameters. When profiles of this framework use
CoAP instead, it is
 to use of the following alternative instead of Uri-query parameters:
The sender (client or RS) encodes the parameters of its request as a CBOR map and submits that
map as the payload of the POST request. The CBOR encoding for a number of OAuth 2.0
parameters is specified in this document; if a profile needs to use other OAuth 2.0 parameters
with CoAP, it

 specify their CBOR encoding.

REQUIRED

MUST

Profiles that use CBOR encoding of protocol message parameters at the outermost encoding layer
 use the Content-Format "application/ace+cbor". If CoAP is used for communication, the
MUST
Content-Format

 be abbreviated with the ID: 19 (see Section 8.16).

MUST

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

The OAuth 2.0 AS uses a JSON structure in the payload of its responses both to the client and RS.
[RFC8949]
If CoAP is used, it is
 instead of JSON. Depending on the profile,
 be enclosed in a non-CBOR cryptographic wrapper.
the CBOR payload

 to use CBOR

REQUIRED

MAY

5.1.  Discovering Authorization Servers

The C must discover the AS in charge of the RS to determine where to request the access token.
To do so, the C 1) must find out the AS URI to which the token request message must be sent and
2)

 validate that the AS with this URI is authorized to provide access tokens for this RS.

MUST

MAY

In order to determine the AS URI, the C
message to the RS. The RS then denies the request and sends the address of its AS back to the C
(see Section 5.2). How the C validates the AS authorization is not in scope for this document. The
C may, for example, ask its owner if this AS is authorized for this RS. The C may also use a
mechanism that addresses both problems at once (e.g., by querying a dedicated secure service
provided by the client owner) .

 send an initial Unauthorized Resource Request

5.2.  Unauthorized Resource Request Message

An Unauthorized Resource Request message is a request for any resource hosted by the RS for
which the client does not have authorization granted. The RSs
protected resource as an Unauthorized Resource Request message when any of the following
hold:

 treat any request for a

MUST

•

The request has been received on an unsecured channel.

•

The RS has no valid access token for the sender of the request regarding the requested action
on that resource.

•

The RS has a valid access token for the sender of the request, but that token does not
authorize the requested action on the requested resource.

Note: These conditions ensure that the RS can handle requests autonomously once access was
granted and a secure channel has been established between the C and RS. The authz-info
endpoint, as part of the process for authorizing to protected resources, is not itself a protected
resource and

 be protected as specified above (cf. Section 5.10.1).

MUST NOT

Unauthorized Resource Request messages
MUST
response. In this response, the resource server
Hints to enable the client to request an access token from the RS's AS, as described in Section 5.3.

 be denied with an "unauthorized_client" error
SHOULD

 provide proper AS Request Creation

The handling of all client requests (including unauthorized ones) by the RS is described in
Section 5.10.2.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

5.3.  AS Request Creation Hints

The AS Request Creation Hints are sent by an RS as a response to an Unauthorized Resource
Request message (see Section 5.2) to help the sender of the Unauthorized Resource Request
message acquire a valid access token. The AS Request Creation Hints are a CBOR or JSON map,
with an
identifies the appropriate AS for the RS.

 element AS specifying an absolute URI (see

Section 4.3 of [RFC3986]

OPTIONAL

) that

The message can also contain the following

OPTIONAL

 parameters:

•

An audience element contains an identifier the client should request at the AS, as suggested
by the RS. With this parameter, when included in the access token request to the AS, the AS is
able to restrict the use of the access token to specific RSs. See Section 6.9 for a discussion of
this parameter.

•

A kid (key identifier) element contains the key identifier of a key used in an existing security
association between the client and the RS. The RS expects the client to request an access
token bound to this key in order to avoid having to reestablish the security association.

•

A cnonce element contains a client-nonce. See Section 5.3.1.

•

A scope element contains the suggested scope that the client should request towards the AS.

Table 1 summarizes the parameters that may be part of the AS Request Creation Hints.

Name

CBOR Key

Value Type

AS

kid

audience

scope

1

2

5

9

text string

byte string

text string

text or byte string

cnonce

39

byte string

Table 1: AS Request Creation Hints

Note that the schema part of the AS parameter may need to be adapted to the security protocol
that is used between the client and the AS. Thus, the example AS value "coap://as.example.com/
token" might need to be transformed to "coaps://as.example.com/token". It is assumed that the
client can determine the correct schema part on its own depending on the way it communicates
with the AS.

Figure 2 shows an example for an AS Request Creation Hints payload using diagnostic notation.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

    4.01 Unauthorized
    Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
    Payload :
    {
     / AS / 1 : "coaps://as.example.com/token",
     / audience / 5 : "coaps://rs.example.com",
     / scope / 9 : "rTempC",
     / cnonce / 39 : h'e0a156bb3f'
    }

Figure 2: AS Request Creation Hints Payload Example

In the example above, the response parameter AS points the receiver of this message to the URI
"coaps://as.example.com/token" to request access tokens. The RS sending this response uses an
internal clock that is not synchronized with the clock of the AS. Therefore, it cannot reliably
verify the expiration time of access tokens it receives. Nevertheless, to ensure a certain level of
access token freshness, the RS has included a cnonce parameter (see Section 5.3.1) in the
response. (The hex sequence of the cnonce parameter is encoded in CBOR-based notation in this
example.)

Figure 3 illustrates the mandatory use of binary encoding of the message payload shown in
Figure 2.

a4                                   # map(4)
   01                                # unsigned(1) (=AS)
   78 1c                             # text(28)
      636f6170733a2f2f61732e657861
      6d706c652e636f6d2f746f6b656e   # "coaps://as.example.com/token"
   05                                # unsigned(5) (=audience)
   76                                # text(22)
      636f6170733a2f2f72732e657861
      6d706c652e636f6d               # "coaps://rs.example.com"
   09                                # unsigned(9) (=scope)
   66                                # text(6)
      7254656d7043                   # "rTempC"
   18 27                             # unsigned(39) (=cnonce)
   45                                # bytes(5)
      e0a156bb3f                     #

Figure 3: AS Request Creation Hints Example Encoded in CBOR

5.3.1.  The Client-Nonce Parameter

If the RS does not synchronize its clock with the AS, it could be tricked into accepting old access
tokens that are either expired or have been compromised. In order to ensure some level of token
freshness in that case, the RS can use the cnonce (client-nonce) parameter. The processing
requirements for this parameter are as follows:

•

An RS sending a cnonce parameter in an AS Request Creation Hints message
information to validate that a given cnonce is fresh. How this is implemented internally is

 store

MUST

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

out of scope for this specification. Expiration of client-nonces should be based roughly on the
time it would take a client to obtain an access token after receiving the AS Request Creation
Hints, with some allowance for unexpected delays.

•

A client receiving a cnonce parameter in an AS Request Creation Hints message
include this in the parameters when requesting an access token at the AS, using the cnonce
parameter from Section 5.8.4.4.

MUST

•

If an AS grants an access token request containing a cnonce parameter, it
value in the access token, using the cnonce claim specified in Section 5.10.

MUST

 include this

•

An RS that is using the client-nonce mechanism and that receives an access token
verify that this token contains a cnonce claim, with a client-nonce value that is fresh
according to the information stored at the first step above. If the cnonce claim is not present
 discard the access token. If this was an
or if the cnonce claim value is not fresh, the RS
interaction with the authz-info endpoint, the RS
 also respond with an error message
using a response code equivalent to the CoAP code 4.01 (Unauthorized).

MUST

MUST

MUST

5.4.  Authorization Grants

To request an access token, the client obtains authorization from the resource owner or uses its
client credentials as a grant. The authorization is expressed in the form of an authorization
grant.

[RFC6749]

The OAuth framework
two groups: those granted on behalf of the resource owner (password, authorization code,
implicit) and those for the client (client credentials). Further grant types have been added later,
such as an assertion-based authorization grant defined in

 defines four grant types. The grant types can be split up into

[RFC7521]
.

The grant type is selected depending on the use case. In cases where the client acts on behalf of
the resource owner, the authorization code grant is recommended. If the client acts on behalf of
the resource owner but does not have any display or has very limited interaction possibilities, it
is recommended to use the device code grant defined in
. In cases where the client acts
autonomously, the client credentials grant is recommended.

[RFC8628]

For details on the different grant types, see
provides an extension mechanism for defining additional grant types, so profiles of this
framework

 define additional grant types, if needed.

Section 1.3 of [RFC6749]

MAY

. The OAuth 2.0 framework

5.5.  Client Credentials

Authentication of the client is mandatory independent of the grant type when requesting an
access token from the token endpoint. In the case of the client credentials grant type, the
authentication and grant coincide.

Client registration and provisioning of client credentials to the client is out of scope for this
specification.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

The OAuth framework defines one client credential type in
comprises the client_id and client_secret values.
shared key to the client credentials type. Profiles of this framework
additional client credentials type using client certificates.

[OAUTH-RPCC]

Section 2.3.1 of [RFC6749]

 that

 adds raw public key and pre-

MAY

 extend it with an

5.6.  AS Authentication

The client credentials grant does not, by default, authenticate the AS that the client connects to.
In classic OAuth, the AS is authenticated with a TLS server certificate.

Profiles of this framework
communication security is implemented. By default, server side TLS certificates, as defined by
OAuth 2.0, are required.

 specify how clients authenticate the AS and how

MUST

5.7.  The Authorization Endpoint

The OAuth 2.0 authorization endpoint is used to interact with the resource owner and obtain an
authorization grant in certain grant flows. The primary use case for the ACE-OAuth framework is
for machine-to-machine interactions that do not involve the resource owner in the authorization
flow; therefore, this endpoint is out of scope here. Future profiles may define constrained
adaptation mechanisms for this endpoint as well. Nonconstrained clients interacting with
constrained resource servers can use the specification in
countermeasures suggested in

Section 4.2 of [RFC6819]
.

Section 3.1 of [RFC6749]

 and the attack

5.8.  The Token Endpoint

In standard OAuth 2.0, the AS provides the token endpoint for submitting access token requests.
This framework extends the functionality of the token endpoint, giving the AS the possibility to
help the client and RS establish shared keys or exchange their public keys. Furthermore, this
framework defines encodings using CBOR as a substitute for JSON.

MUST

 define the details of the mapping between the fields described below and these

The endpoint may also be exposed over HTTPS, as in classical OAuth or even other transports. A
profile
transports. If HTTPS with JSON is used, the semantics of Sections 4.1.3 and 4.1.4 of the OAuth 2.0
specification
 be followed (with additions as described below). If CBOR is used as
the payload format, the semantics described in this section
MUST

[RFC6749] MUST

 be followed.

For the AS to be able to issue a token, the client
MUST
for the scopes requested. Profiles of this framework
client and how the communication between the client and AS is protected, fulfilling the
requirements specified in Section 5.

 be authenticated and present a valid grant
MUST

 specify how the AS authenticates the

The default name of this endpoint in a url-path
are not required to use this name and can define their own instead.

SHOULD

 be '/token'. However, implementations

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

5.8.1.  Client-to-AS Request

The client sends a POST request to the token endpoint at the AS. The profile
communication is protected. The content of the request consists of the parameters specified in
the relevant subsection of Section 4 of the OAuth 2.0 specification
, depending on the
grant type, with the following exceptions and additions:

[RFC6749]

MUST

 specify how the

•

The grant_type parameter is
REQUIRED
implied.

[RFC6749]

 in

OPTIONAL

 in the context of this framework (as opposed to

). If that parameter is missing, the default value "client_credentials" is

•

The audience parameter from
specific audience.

[RFC8693] OPTIONAL
 is

 to request an access token bound to a

•

The cnonce parameter defined in Section 5.8.4.4 is
REQUIRED
nonce in the AS Request Creation Hints message (Section 5.3).

 if the RS provided a client-

•

MAY
Section 3.3 of [RFC6749]

 be encoded as a byte string instead of the string encoding

The scope parameter
specified in
 or in order to allow compact encoding of complex
scopes. The syntax of such a binary encoding is explicitly not specified here and left to
profiles or applications. Note specifically that a binary encoded scope does not necessarily
use the space character '0x20' to delimit scope-tokens.

•

The client can send an empty (null value) ace_profile parameter to indicate that it wants
the AS to include the ace_profile parameter in the response. See Section 5.8.4.3.

•

MUST

A client
token endpoint, and the AS

 be able to use the parameters from

[RFC9201]

 in an access token request to the

MUST

 be able to process these additional parameters.

The default behavior is that the AS generates a symmetric proof-of-possession key for the client.
In order to use an asymmetric key pair or to reuse a key previously established with the RS, the
client is supposed to use the req_cnf parameter from

[RFC9201]
.

If CoAP is used, then these parameters

MUST

 be provided in a CBOR map (see Table 5).

When HTTP is used as a transport, then the client makes a request to the token endpoint; the
parameters

 be encoded as defined in

Appendix B of [RFC6749]
.

MUST

The following examples illustrate different types of requests for proof-of-possession tokens.

Figure 4 shows a request for a token with a symmetric proof-of-possession key, using diagnostic
notation.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Header: POST (Code=0.02)
Uri-Host: "as.example.com"
Uri-Path: "token"
Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
Payload:
{
  / client_id / 24 : "myclient",
  / audience /  5  : "tempSensor4711"
}

Figure 4: Example Request for an Access Token Bound to a Symmetric Key

[RFC8613]

Figure 5 shows a request for a token with an asymmetric proof-of-possession key. Note that, in
this example, OSCORE
Format is "application/oscore" wrapping the "application/ace+cbor" type content. The OSCORE
option has a decoded interpretation appended in parentheses for the reader's convenience. Also
note that, in this example, the audience is implicitly known by both the client and AS.
Furthermore, note that this example uses the req_cnf parameter from

 is used to provide object-security; therefore, the Content-

[RFC9201]
.

Header: POST (Code=0.02)
Uri-Host: "as.example.com"
Uri-Path: "token"
OSCORE: 0x09, 0x05, 0x44, 0x6C
  (h=0, k=1, n=001, partialIV= 0x05, kid=[0x44, 0x6C])
Content-Format: application/oscore
Payload:
  0x44025d1/ ... (full payload omitted for brevity) ... /68b3825e

Decrypted payload:
{
  / client_id / 24 : "myclient",
  / req_cnf / 4 : {
    / COSE_Key / 1 : {
      / kty /  1 : 2 / EC2 /,
      / kid /  2 : h'11',
      / crv / -1 : 1 / P-256 /,
      / x /   -2 : b64'usWxHK2PmfnHKwXPS54m0kTcGJ90UiglWiGahtagnv8',
      / y /   -3 : b64'IBOL+C3BttVivg+lSreASjpkttcsz+1rb7btKLv8EX4'
    }
  }
}

Figure 5: Example Token Request Bound to an Asymmetric Key

Figure 6 shows a request for a token where a previously communicated proof-of-possession key
is only referenced using the req_cnf parameter from

[RFC9201]
.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Header: POST (Code=0.02)
Uri-Host: "as.example.com"
Uri-Path: "token"
Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
Payload:
{
  / client_id / 24 : "myclient",
  / audience /   5 : "valve424",
  / scope /      9 : "read",
  / req_cnf /    4 : {
     / kid /        3 : b64'6kg0dXJM13U'
  }
}

Figure 6: Example Request for an Access Token Bound to a Key Reference

Refresh tokens are typically not stored as securely as proof-of-possession keys in requesting
clients. Proof-of-possession-based refresh token requests
possession keys or different audiences in token requests. Refresh token requests can only be used
to request access tokens bound to the same proof-of-possession key and the same audience as
access tokens issued in the initial token request.

 request different proof-of-

MUST NOT

5.8.2.  AS-to-Client Response

If the access token request has been successfully verified by the AS and the client is authorized to
obtain an access token corresponding to its access token request, the AS sends a response with
the response code equivalent to the CoAP response code 2.01 (Created). If the client request was
invalid, or not authorized, the AS returns an error response, as described in Section 5.8.3.

Note that the AS decides which token type and profile to use when issuing a successful response.
It is assumed that the AS has prior knowledge of the capabilities of the client and the RS (see
Appendix D). This prior knowledge may, for example, be set by the use of a dynamic client
registration protocol exchange
possession key using the req_cnf parameter from
profile the AS selects, as it needs to support the use of the key type requested by the client.

. If the client has requested a specific proof-of-

, this may also influence which

[RFC7591]

[RFC9201]

 be encoded as a CBOR map; when using HTTP, the encoding is a JSON map, as specified in

The content of the successful reply is the Access Information. When using CoAP, the payload
MUST
Section 5.1 of [RFC6749]
used, with the following additions and changes:

. In both cases, the parameters specified in

Section 5.1 of [RFC6749]

 are

ace_profile:

OPTIONAL

 unless the request included an empty ace_profile

This parameter is
parameter, in which case it is MANDATORY. This indicates the profile that the client
use towards the RS. See Section 5.8.4.3 for the formatting of this parameter. If this
parameter is absent, the AS assumes that the client implicitly knows which profile to use
towards the RS.

MUST

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

token_type:

OPTIONAL

, as opposed to
This parameter is
implementations of this framework
SHOULD
specific use case requires another token_type (e.g., "Bearer") to be used, then this
parameter is

REQUIRED
 assume that the token_type is "PoP". If a

. By default,

[RFC6749]

REQUIRED

 in

.

Furthermore,
responding to a request to the token endpoint.

[RFC9201]

 defines additional parameters that the AS

MUST

 be able to use when

Table 2 summarizes the parameters that can currently be part of the Access Information. Future
extensions may define additional parameters.

Parameter name

Specified in

access_token

[RFC6749]

token_type

[RFC6749]

expires_in

[RFC6749]

refresh_token

[RFC6749]

scope

state

error

[RFC6749]

[RFC6749]

[RFC6749]

error_description

[RFC6749]

error_uri

[RFC6749]

ace_profile

RFC 9200

cnf

rs_cnf

[RFC9201]

[RFC9201]

Table 2: Access Information Parameters

Figure 7 shows a response containing a token and a cnf parameter with a symmetric proof-of-
possession key, which is defined in
simplify indexing and retrieving the key, and no assumptions should be made that it is unique in
the domains of either the client or the RS.

. Note that the key identifier kid is only used to

[RFC9201]

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Header: Created (Code=2.01)
Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
Payload:
{
  / access_token / 1 : b64'SlAV32hk'/ ...
   (remainder of CWT omitted for brevity;
   CWT contains COSE_Key in the cnf claim)/,
  / ace_profile / 38 : "coap_dtls",
  / expires_in /   2 : 3600,
  / cnf / 8 : {
    / COSE_Key / 1 : {
      / kty / 1 : 4 / Symmetric /,
      / kid / 2 : b64'39Gqlw',
      / k /  -1 : b64'hJtXhkV8FJG+Onbc6mxC'
    }
  }
}

Figure 7: Example AS Response with an Access Token Bound to a Symmetric Key

5.8.3.  Error Response

The error responses for interactions with the AS are generally equivalent to the ones defined in
Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]

, with the following exceptions:

•

When using CoAP, the payload
 be encoded as a CBOR map, with the Content-Format
"application/ace+cbor". When using HTTP, the payload is encoded in JSON, as specified in
Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]

MUST

.

•

A response code equivalent to the CoAP code 4.00 (Bad Request)
responses, except for invalid_client, where a response code equivalent to the CoAP code 4.01
(Unauthorized)
 be used under the same conditions as specified in
[RFC6749]

 be used for all error

Section 5.2 of

MUST

MAY

.

•

The parameters error, error_description, and error_uri
codes specified in Table 5, when a CBOR encoding is used.

MUST

 be abbreviated using the

•

The error code (i.e., value of the error parameter)
3, when a CBOR encoding is used.

MUST

 be abbreviated, as specified in Table

Name

CBOR Values Original Specification

invalid_request

invalid_client

invalid_grant

unauthorized_client

unsupported_grant_type

1

2

3

4

5

Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]

Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]

Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]

Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]

Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Name

CBOR Values Original Specification

invalid_scope

unsupported_pop_key

incompatible_ace_profiles

6

7

8

Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]

RFC 9200

RFC 9200

Table 3: CBOR Abbreviations for Common Error Codes

In addition to the error responses defined in OAuth 2.0, the following behavior
implemented by the AS:

MUST

 be

•

If the client submits an asymmetric key in the token request that the RS cannot process, the
AS
Request), including the error code "unsupported_pop_key" specified in Table 3.

 reject that request with a response code equivalent to the CoAP code 4.00 (Bad

MUST

•

If the client and the RS it has requested an access token for do not share a common profile,
the AS
 reject that request with a response code equivalent to the CoAP code 4.00 (Bad
Request), including the error code "incompatible_ace_profiles" specified in Table 3.

MUST

5.8.4.  Request and Response Parameters

This section provides more detail about the new parameters that can be used in access token
requests and responses, as well as abbreviations for more compact encoding of existing
parameters and common parameter values.

5.8.4.1.  Grant Type

The abbreviations specified in the registry defined in Section 8.5
encodings instead of the string values defined in

 be used in CBOR
 if CBOR payloads are used.

[RFC6749]

MUST

Name

password

authorization_code

client_credentials

refresh_token

CBOR Value Original Specification

0

1

2

3

Section 4.3.2 of [RFC6749]

Section 4.1.3 of [RFC6749]

Section 4.4.2 of [RFC6749]

Section 6 of [RFC6749]

Table 4: CBOR Abbreviations for Common Grant Types

5.8.4.2.  Token Type

The token_type parameter, defined in
client which type of access token it is receiving (e.g., a bearer token).

Section 5.1 of [RFC6749]

, allows the AS to indicate to the

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

This document registers the new value "PoP" for the "OAuth Access Token Types" registry,
specifying a proof-of-possession token. How the proof of possession by the client to the RS is
performed

 be specified by the profiles.

MUST

The values in the token_type parameter
registry specified by Section 8.7 if a CBOR encoding is used.

MUST

 use the CBOR abbreviations defined in the

In this framework, the "pop" value for the token_type parameter is the default. The AS may,
[IANA.OAuthAccessTokenTypes]
.
however, provide a different value from those registered in

5.8.4.3.  Profile

MUST

 define the communication protocol and the communication

Profiles of this framework
security protocol between the client and the RS. The security protocol
integrity, and replay protection. It
Furthermore, profiles
MUST
proof-of-possession tokens.

 provide encryption,
 also provide a binding between requests and responses.
 define a list of allowed proof-of-possession methods if they support

MUST

MUST

MUST

 specify an identifier that

A profile
ace_profile parameter. The textual representation of the profile identifier is intended for
human readability and for JSON-based interactions; it
interactions. Profiles

 register their identifier in the registry defined in Section 8.8.

 be used to uniquely identify itself in the

 be used for CBOR-based

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

MAY

 define additional parameters for both the token request and the Access Information

Profiles
in the access token response in order to support negotiation or signaling of profile-specific
parameters.

Clients that want the AS to provide them with the ace_profile parameter in the access token
response can indicate that by sending an ace_profile parameter with a null value for CBOR-
based interactions, or an empty string if CBOR is not used, in the access token request.

5.8.4.4.  Client-Nonce

MUST

 be sent from the client to the AS if it previously received a cnonce

This parameter
parameter in the AS Request Creation Hints (Section 5.3). The parameter is encoded as a byte
string for CBOR-based interactions and as a string (base64url without padding encoded binary
[RFC4648]
Request Creation Hints.

 copy the value from the cnonce parameter in the AS

) if CBOR is not used. It

MUST

5.8.5.  Mapping Parameters to CBOR

If CBOR encoding is used, all OAuth parameters in access token requests and responses
mapped to CBOR types, as specified in the registry defined by Section 8.10, using the given
integer abbreviation for the map keys.

MUST

 be

Note that we have aligned the abbreviations corresponding to claims with the abbreviations
defined in

[RFC8392]
.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Note also that abbreviations from -24 to 23 have a 1-byte encoding size in CBOR. We have thus
chosen to assign abbreviations in that range to parameters we expect to be used most frequently
in constrained scenarios.

Name

CBOR Key

Value Type

Original Specification

access_token

expires_in

audience

scope

client_id

client_secret

response_type

redirect_uri

state

code

error

1

2

5

9

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

byte string

[RFC6749]

unsigned integer

[RFC6749]

text string

[RFC8693]

text or byte string

[RFC6749]

text string

[RFC6749]

byte string

[RFC6749]

text string

[RFC6749]

text string

[RFC6749]

text string

[RFC6749]

byte string

[RFC6749]

integer

[RFC6749]

error_description

31

text string

[RFC6749]

error_uri

grant_type

token_type

username

password

refresh_token

ace_profile

cnonce

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

text string

[RFC6749]

unsigned integer

[RFC6749]

integer

[RFC6749]

text string

[RFC6749]

text string

[RFC6749]

byte string

[RFC6749]

integer

RFC 9200

byte string

RFC 9200

Table 5: CBOR Mappings Used in Token Requests and Responses

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

5.9.  The Introspection Endpoint

[RFC7662] MAY

 be implemented by the AS and the RS. When implemented, it

 be used by the RS and to query the AS for metadata about a given token, e.g., validity or
[RFC7662]

Token introspection
MAY
scope. Analogous to the protocol defined in
adaptations to more constrained environments using CBOR and leaving the choice of the
application protocol to the profile. The client
 also implement and use introspection
analogously to the RS to obtain information about a given token.

 for HTTP and JSON, this section defines

MAY

Communication between the requesting entity and the introspection endpoint at the AS
integrity protected and encrypted. The communication security protocol
binding between requests and responses. Furthermore, the two interacting parties
perform mutual authentication. Finally, the AS
right to access introspection information about the provided token. Profiles of this framework
that support introspection
MUST
between the requesting entity and the AS is implemented.

 specify how authentication and communication security

MUST
 also provide a
MUST

 verify that the requesting entity has the

SHOULD

MUST

 be

The default name of this endpoint in a url-path
implementations are not required to use this name and can define their own instead.

 be '/introspect'. However,

SHOULD

5.9.1.  Introspection Request

 specify how the communication is protected. If CoAP is used, the payload

The requesting entity sends a POST request to the introspection endpoint at the AS. The profile
MUST
as a CBOR map with a token entry containing the access token. Further optional parameters
representing additional context that is known by the requesting entity to aid the AS in its
response

 be included.

MUST

MAY

 be encoded

For CoAP-based interaction, all messages
HTTP, the encoding defined in

Section 2.1 of [RFC7662]

 is used.

MUST

 use the content type "application/ace+cbor". For

The same parameters are required and optional as in

Section 2.1 of [RFC7662]
.

For example, Figure 8 shows an RS calling the token introspection endpoint at the AS to query
about an OAuth 2.0 proof-of-possession token. Note that object security based on OSCORE
[RFC8613]
Figure 9 shows the decoded payload.

 is assumed in this example; therefore, the Content-Format is "application/oscore".

Header: POST (Code=0.02)
Uri-Host: "as.example.com"
Uri-Path: "introspect"
OSCORE: 0x09, 0x05, 0x25
Content-Format: application/oscore
Payload:
... COSE content ...

Figure 8: Example Introspection Request

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

{
  / token / 11  : b64'7gj0dXJQ43U',
  / token_type_hint / 33 : 2 / PoP /
}

Figure 9: Decoded Payload

5.9.2.  Introspection Response

If the introspection request is authorized and successfully processed, the AS sends a response
with the response code equivalent to the CoAP code 2.01 (Created). If the introspection request
was invalid, not authorized, or couldn't be processed, the AS returns an error response, as
described in Section 5.9.3.

 be encoded as a CBOR map; if HTTP is used, the JSON encoding specified in

In a successful response, the AS encodes the response parameters in a map. If CoAP is used, this
MUST
[RFC7662]
optional parameters as in

 is used. The map containing the response payload includes the same required and

, with the following additions:

Section 2.2 of [RFC7662]

Section 2.2 of

ace_profile

This parameter is
 use with the client.
See Section 5.8.4.3 for more details on the formatting of this parameter. If this parameter is
absent, the AS assumes that the RS implicitly knows which profile to use towards the client.

. This indicates the profile that the RS

OPTIONAL

MUST

cnonce

OPTIONAL

. This is a client-nonce provided to the AS by the client. The RS

 verify that this corresponds to the client-nonce previously provided to the client in the

This parameter is
MUST
AS Request Creation Hints. See Sections 5.3 and 5.8.4.4. Its value is a byte string when encoded
in CBOR and is the base64url encoding of this byte string without padding when encoded in
JSON

[RFC4648]

.

cti

OPTIONAL

This parameter is
parameter has the same meaning and processing rules as the jti parameter defined in
Section 3.1.2 of [RFC7662]
the base64url encoding of this byte string without padding when encoded in JSON

 except that its value is a byte string when encoded in CBOR and is
[RFC4648]

. This is the cti claim associated to this access token. This

.

exi

This parameter is
Section 5.10.3.

OPTIONAL

. This is the expires_in claim associated to this access token. See

Furthermore,
responding to a request to the introspection endpoint.

 defines more parameters that the AS

[RFC9201]

MUST

 be able to use when

For example, Figure 10 shows an AS response to the introspection request in Figure 8. Note that
this example contains the cnf parameter defined in

[RFC9201]
.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Header: Created (Code=2.01)
Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
Payload:
{
  / active /      10 : true,
  / scope /        9 : "read",
  / ace_profile / 38 : 1 / coap_dtls /,
  / cnf /          8 : {
    / COSE_Key / 1 : {
      / kty / 1 : 4 / Symmetric /,
      / kid / 2 : b64'39Gqlw',
      / k /  -1 : b64'hJtXhkV8FJG+Onbc6mxC'
    }
  }
}

Figure 10: Example Introspection Response

5.9.3.  Error Response

The error responses for CoAP-based interactions with the AS are equivalent to the ones for HTTP-
based interactions, as defined in

, with the following differences:

Section 2.3 of [RFC7662]

•

If content is sent and CoAP is used, the payload
Content-Format "application/ace+cbor"
Section 2.3 of [RFC6749]

 is used.

MUST

MUST

 be encoded as a CBOR map and the
 be used. For HTTP, the encoding defined in

•

If the credentials used by the requesting entity (usually the RS) are invalid, the AS
respond with the response code equivalent to the CoAP code 4.01 (Unauthorized) and use the
required and optional parameters from

Section 2.3 of [RFC7662]

MUST

.

•

If the requesting entity does not have the right to perform this introspection request, the AS
MUST
case, no payload is returned.

 respond with a response code equivalent to the CoAP code 4.03 (Forbidden). In this

•

The parameters error, error_description, and error_uri
codes specified in Table 5.

MUST

 be abbreviated using the

•

The error codes
Section 8.4.

MUST

 be abbreviated using the codes specified in the registry defined by

Note that a properly formed and authorized query for an inactive or otherwise invalid token
does not warrant an error response by this specification. In these cases, the authorization server
MUST

 instead respond with an introspection response with the active field set to "false".

5.9.4.  Mapping Introspection Parameters to CBOR

If CBOR is used, the introspection request and response parameters
types, as specified in the registry defined by Section 8.12, using the given integer abbreviation for
the map key.

 be mapped to CBOR

MUST

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Note that we have aligned abbreviations that correspond to a claim with the abbreviations
defined in
5.8.5.

 and the abbreviations of parameters with the same name from Section

[RFC8392]

Parameter name

CBOR
Key

Value Type

Original
Specification

iss

sub

aud

exp

nbf

iat

cti

scope

active

token

client_id

error

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

9

10

11

24

30

text string

text string

text string

integer or floating-point
number

integer or floating-point
number

integer or floating-point
number

byte string

text or byte string

True or False

byte string

text string

integer

error_description

31

text string

error_uri

token_type_hint

token_type

username

ace_profile

cnonce

32

33

34

35

38

39

text string

text string

integer

text string

integer

byte string

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

RFC 9200

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

[RFC7662]

RFC 9200

RFC 9200

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Parameter name

CBOR
Key

Value Type

Original
Specification

exi

40

unsigned integer

RFC 9200

Table 6: CBOR Mappings for Token Introspection Parameters

5.10.  The Access Token

In this framework, the use of CBOR Web Token (CWT) as specified in
.
RECOMMENDED

[RFC8392]

 is

 and the scope claim from

In order to facilitate offline processing of access tokens, this document uses the cnf claim from
[RFC8747]
string encoding specified for the scope claim, a binary encoding
an encoding is explicitly not specified here and left to profiles or applications, specifically note
that a binary encoded scope does not necessarily use the space character '0x20' to delimit scope-
tokens.

 for JWT- and CWT-encoded tokens. In addition to
 be used. The syntax of such

[RFC8693]

MAY

If the AS needs to convey a hint to the RS about which profile it should use to communicate with
the client, the AS
and semantics as defined in Section 5.8.4.3.

 include an ace_profile claim in the access token, with the same syntax

MAY

If the client submitted a cnonce parameter in the access token request (Section 5.8.4.4), the AS
 include the value of this parameter in the cnonce claim specified here. The cnonce claim
MUST
uses binary encoding.

5.10.1.  The Authorization Information Endpoint

The access token, containing authorization information and information about the proof-of-
possession method used by the client, needs to be transported to the RS so that the RS can
authenticate and authorize the client request.

This section defines a method for transporting the access token to the RS using a RESTful
protocol, such as CoAP. Profiles of this framework

 define other methods for token transport.

MAY

MUST

The method consists of an authz-info endpoint, implemented by the RS. A client using this
method
the payload. The CoAP Content-Format or HTTP media type
e.g., "application/cwt", for CBOR Web Tokens; if no Content-Format or media type is defined for
the token format, "application/octet-stream"
MUST

 make a POST request to the authz-info endpoint at the RS with the access token in
 reflect the format of the token,

 be used.

MUST

The RS receiving the token
MUST
respond to the POST request with a response code equivalent to CoAP code 2.01 (Created). Section
5.10.1.1 outlines how an RS

 verify the validity of the token. If the token is valid, the RS

 proceed to verify the validity of an access token.

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be prepared to store at least one access token for future use. This is a difference as

The RS
to how access tokens are handled in OAuth 2.0, where the access token is typically sent along
with each request and therefore not stored at the RS.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

RECOMMENDED

 that an RS stores only one token per proof-of-

When using this framework, it is
possession key. This means that an additional token linked to the same key will supersede any
existing token at the RS by replacing the corresponding authorization information. The reason is
that this greatly simplifies (constrained) implementations, with respect to required storage and
resolving a request to the applicable token. The use of multiple access tokens for a single client
increases the strain on the resource server, as it must consider every access token and calculate
the actual permissions of the client. Also, tokens may contradict each other, which may lead the
server to enforce wrong permissions. If one of the access tokens expires earlier than others, the
resulting permissions may offer insufficient protection.

If the payload sent to the authz-info endpoint does not parse to a token, the RS
with a response code equivalent to the CoAP code 4.00 (Bad Request).

MUST

 respond

MAY

 make an introspection request to validate the token before responding to the POST

The RS
request to the authz-info endpoint, e.g., if the token is an opaque reference. Some transport
protocols may provide a way to indicate that the RS is busy and the client should retry after an
interval; this type of status update would be appropriate while the RS is waiting for an
introspection response.

MUST

 specify whether the authz-info endpoint is protected, including whether error

Profiles
responses from this endpoint are protected. Note that since the token contains information that
allows the client and the RS to establish a security context in the first place, mutual
authentication may not be possible at this point.

The default name of this endpoint in a url-path is '/authz-info'; however, implementations are not
required to use this name and can define their own instead.

5.10.1.1.  Verifying an Access Token

MUST

When an RS receives an access token, it
 verify it before storing it. The details of token
verification depends on various aspects, including the token encoding, the type of token, the
security protection applied to the token, and the claims. The token encoding matters since the
security protection differs between the token encodings. For example, a CWT token uses COSE,
while a JWT token uses JSON Object Signing and Encryption (JOSE). The type of token also has an
influence on the verification procedure since tokens may be self-contained, whereby token
verification may happen locally at the RS, while a reference token requires further interaction
with the authorization server, for example, using token introspection, to obtain the claims
associated with the token reference. Self-contained tokens
but they

 at least be integrity protected,

 also be encrypted.

MUST

MAY

MUST

For self-contained tokens, the RS
specified by the respective token format. For CWT, the description can be found in
JWT, the relevant specification is
protection (and thus the token) was generated by an AS that has the right to issue access tokens
for this RS.

 process the security protection of the token first, as

 include a verification that security

[RFC7519]

[RFC8392]

. This

MUST

; for

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

In case the token is communicated by reference, the RS needs to obtain the claims first. When the
RS uses token introspection, the relevant specification is
 with CoAP transport specified
in Section 5.9.

[RFC7662]

Errors may happen during this initial processing stage:

•

If the verification of the security wrapper fails, or the token was issued by an AS that does
not have the right to issue tokens for the receiving RS, the RS
this was an interaction with authz-info, return an error message with a response code
equivalent to the CoAP code 4.01 (Unauthorized).

 discard the token and, if

MUST

•

If the claims cannot be obtained, the RS
 discard the token and, in case of an interaction
via the authz-info endpoint, return an error message with a response code equivalent to the
CoAP code 4.00 (Bad Request).

MUST

Next, the RS
when claim checks fail, in the order of priority of this list:

MUST

 verify claims, if present, contained in the access token. Errors are returned

iss

The iss claim (if present) must identify the AS that has produced the security protection for
the access token. If that is not the case, the RS
interaction with authz-info, the RS
CoAP code 4.01 (Unauthorized).

 discard the token. If this was an
 also respond with a response code equivalent to the

MUST

MUST

exp

The expiration date must be in the future. If that is not the case, the RS
token. If this was an interaction with authz-info, the RS
code equivalent to the CoAP code 4.01 (Unauthorized). Note that the RS has to terminate
access rights to the protected resources at the time when the tokens expire.

 also respond with a response

 discard the

MUST

MUST

aud

The aud claim must refer to an audience that the RS identifies with. If that is not the case, the
RS
 discard the token. If this was an interaction with authz-info, the RS
respond with a response code equivalent to the CoAP code 4.03 (Forbidden).

MUST

MUST

 also

scope

The RS must recognize value of the scope claim. If that is not the case, the RS
the token. If this was an interaction with authz-info, the RS
response code equivalent to the CoAP code 4.00 (Bad Request). The RS
information in the error response to clarify what went wrong.

MUST

MAY

 also respond with a

MUST

 discard

 provide additional

Additional processing may be needed for other claims in a way specific to a profile or the
underlying application.

Note that the sub (Subject) claim cannot always be verified when the token is submitted to the RS
since the client may not have authenticated yet. Also note that a counter for the exi (expires in)
claim

 be initialized when the RS first verifies this token.

MUST

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Also note that profiles of this framework may define access token transport mechanisms that do
not allow for error responses. Therefore, the error messages specified here only apply if the
token was sent to the authz-info endpoint.

When sending error responses, the RS
provide additional details to the client.

MAY

 use the error codes from

Section 3.1 of [RFC6750]

 to

5.10.1.2.  Protecting the Authorization Information Endpoint

As this framework can be used in RESTful environments, it is important to make sure that
attackers cannot perform unauthorized requests on the authz-info endpoints, other than
submitting access tokens.

Specifically, it
endpoint.

SHOULD NOT

 be possible to perform GET, DELETE, or PUT on the authz-info

SHOULD

 implement rate-limiting measures to mitigate attacks aiming to overload the

The RS
processing capacity of the RS by repeatedly submitting tokens. For CoAP-based communication,
the RS could use the mechanisms from

 to indicate that it is overloaded.

[RFC8516]

5.10.2.  Client Requests to the RS

Before sending a request to an RS, the client
communication are still valid. See Section 5.10.4 for details on how the client determines the
validity of the keys used.

 verify that the keys used to protect this

MUST

If an RS receives a request from a client and the target resource requires authorization, the RS
 first verify that it has an access token that authorizes this request and that the client has
MUST
performed the proof-of-possession binding for that token to the request.

MUST

 be 4.01 (Unauthorized) in case the client has not performed the proof of

The response code
possession or if the RS has no valid access token for the client. If the RS has an access token for
the client but the token does not authorize access for the resource that was requested, the RS
MUST
does not cover the action that was requested on the resource, the RS
a 4.05 (Method Not Allowed).

 reject the request with a 4.03 (Forbidden). If the RS has an access token for the client but it

 reject the request with

MUST

Note: The use of the response codes 4.03 and 4.05 is intended to prevent infinite loops where a
client optimistically tries to access a requested resource with any access token received from AS.
As malicious clients could pretend to be the C to determine the C's privileges, these detailed
response codes must be used only when a certain level of security is already available, which can
be achieved only when the client is authenticated.

Note: The RS
request is presented.

MAY

 use introspection for timely validation of an access token at the time when a

Note: Matching the claims of the access token (e.g., scope) to a specific request is application
specific.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

If the request matches a valid token and the client has performed the proof of possession for that
token, the RS continues to process the request as specified by the underlying application.

5.10.3.  Token Expiration

Depending on the capabilities of the RS, there are various ways in which it can verify the
expiration of a received access token. The following is a list of the possibilities including what
functionality they require of the RS.

•

The token is a CWT and includes an exp claim and possibly the nbf claim. The RS verifies
these by comparing them to values from its internal clock, as defined in
. In this
case, the RS's internal clock must reflect the current date and time or at least be
synchronized with the AS's clock. How this clock synchronization would be performed is out
of scope for this specification.

[RFC7519]

•

The RS verifies the validity of the token by performing an introspection request, as specified
in Section 5.9. This requires the RS to have a reliable network connection to the AS and to be
able to handle two secure sessions in parallel (C to RS and RS to AS).

•

In order to support token expiration for devices that have no reliable way of synchronizing
their internal clocks, this specification defines the following approach: The claim exi
(expires in) can be used to provide the RS with the lifetime of the token in seconds from the
time the RS first receives the token. This mechanism only works for self-contained tokens,
i.e., CWTs and JWTs. For CWTs, this parameter is encoded as an unsigned integer, while JWTs
encode this as JSON number.

•

Processing this claim requires that the RS does the following:
◦

For each token the RS receives that contains an exi claim, keep track of the time it
received that token and revisit that list regularly to expunge expired tokens.

◦

MUST

Keep track of the identifiers of tokens containing the exi claim that have expired (in order
to avoid accepting them again). In order to avoid an unbounded memory usage growth,
this
 be implemented in the following way when the exi claim is used:
▪

When creating the token, the AS
token. The value of this claim
concatenation of the identifier of the RS with a sequence number counting the tokens
containing an exi claim, issued by this AS for the RS.

 add a cti claim (or jti for JWTs) to the access

 be created as the binary representation of the

MUST

MUST

▪

MUST

 store the highest sequence number of an expired token containing the exi

The RS
claim that it has seen and treat tokens with lower sequence numbers as expired. Note
that this could lead to discarding valid tokens with lower sequence numbers if the AS
where to issue tokens of different validity time for the same RS. The assumption is that
typically tokens in such a scenario would all have the same validity time.

If a token that authorizes a long-running request, such as a CoAP Observe
RS
(Unauthorized) to the client and then terminate processing the long-running request.

 send an error response with the response code equivalent to the CoAP code 4.01

[RFC7641]

MUST

, expires, the

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

5.10.4.  Key Expiration

The AS provides the client with key material that the RS uses. This can either be a common
symmetric PoP key or an asymmetric key used by the RS to authenticate towards the client. Since
there is currently no expiration metadata associated to those keys, the client has no way of
knowing if these keys are still valid. This may lead to situations where the client sends requests
containing sensitive information to the RS using a key that is expired and possibly in the hands
of an attacker or where the client accepts responses from the RS that are not properly protected
and could possibly have been forged by an attacker.

In order to prevent this, the client must assume that those keys are only valid as long as the
related access token is. Since the access token is opaque to the client, one of the following
methods

 be used to inform the client about the validity of an access token:

MUST

•

The client knows a default validity time for all tokens it is using (i.e., how long a token is
valid after being issued). This information could be provisioned to the client when it is
registered at the AS or published by the AS in a way that the client can query.

•

The AS informs the client about the token validity using the expires_in parameter in the
Access Information.

A client that is not able to obtain information about the expiration of a token
token.

MUST NOT

 use this

6.  Security Considerations

Security considerations applicable to authentication and authorization in RESTful environments
 provides additional
provided in OAuth 2.0
security considerations for OAuth, which apply to IoT deployments as well. If the introspection
endpoint is used, the security considerations from

 apply to this work. Furthermore,

 also apply.

[RFC6819]

[RFC6749]

[RFC7662]

The following subsections address issues specific to this document and its use in constrained
environments.

6.1.  Protecting Tokens

A large range of threats can be mitigated by protecting the contents of the access token by using a
digital signature or a keyed message digest, e.g., a Message Authentication Code (MAC) or an
Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) algorithm. Consequently, the token
integrity protection
it contains a reference to the symmetric key or the asymmetric key used for proof of possession.
If the access token contains the symmetric key, this symmetric key
 be encrypted by the
authorization server so that only the resource server can decrypt it. Note that using an AEAD
algorithm is preferable over using a MAC unless the token needs to be publicly readable.

 be applied to prevent the token from being modified, particularly since

MUST

MUST

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

If the token is intended for multiple recipients (i.e., an audience that is a group), integrity
protection of the token with a symmetric key, shared between the AS and the recipients, is not
sufficient, since any of the recipients could modify the token undetected by the other recipients.
Therefore, a token with a multirecipient audience
signature.

 be protected with an asymmetric

MUST

It is important for the authorization server to include the identity of the intended recipient (the
audience), typically a single resource server (or a list of resource servers), in the token. The same
shared secret
since the benefit from using the proof-of-possession concept is then significantly reduced.

 be used as a proof-of-possession key with multiple resource servers,

MUST NOT

If clients are capable of doing so, they should frequently request fresh access tokens, as this
allows the AS to keep the lifetime of the tokens short. This allows the AS to use shorter proof-of-
possession key sizes, which translate to a performance benefit for the client and for the resource
server. Shorter keys also lead to shorter messages (particularly with asymmetric keying
material).

When authorization servers bind symmetric keys to access tokens, they
access tokens to a specific permission.

SHOULD

 scope these

In certain situations, it may be necessary to revoke an access token that is still valid. Client-
initiated revocation is specified in
 for OAuth 2.0. Other revocation mechanisms are
currently not specified, as the underlying assumption in OAuth is that access tokens are issued
with a relatively short lifetime. This may not hold true for disconnected constrained devices
needing access tokens with relatively long lifetimes and would therefore necessitate further
standardization work that is out of scope for this document.

[RFC7009]

6.2.  Communication Security

Communication with the authorization server
 use confidentiality protection. This step is
extremely important since the client or the RS may obtain the proof-of-possession key from the
authorization server for use with a specific access token. Not using confidentiality protection
exposes this secret (and the access token) to an eavesdropper, thereby completely negating proof-
of-possession security. The requirements for communication security of profiles are specified in
Section 5.

MUST

Additional protection for the access token can be applied by encrypting it, for example,
encryption of CWTs is specified in
necessary if the token is later transferred over an insecure connection (e.g., when it is sent to the
authz-info endpoint).

. Such additional protection can be

Section 7.1 of [RFC8392]

Care must be taken by developers to prevent leakage of the PoP credentials (i.e., the private key
or the symmetric key). An adversary in possession of the PoP credentials bound to the access
token will be able to impersonate the client. Be aware that this is a real risk with many
constrained environments, since adversaries may get physical access to the devices and can

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

therefore use physical extraction techniques to gain access to memory contents. This risk can be
mitigated to some extent by making sure that keys are refreshed frequently, by using software
isolation techniques, and by using hardware security.

6.3.  Long-Term Credentials

Both the clients and RSs have long-term credentials that are used to secure communications and
authenticate to the AS. These credentials need to be protected against unauthorized access. In
constrained devices deployed in publicly accessible places, such protection can be difficult to
achieve without specialized hardware (e.g., secure key storage memory).

If credentials are lost or compromised, the operator of the affected devices needs to have
procedures to invalidate any access these credentials give and needs to revoke tokens linked to
such credentials. The loss of a credential linked to a specific device
compromise of other credentials not linked to that device; therefore, secret keys used for
authentication

 be shared between more than two parties.

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

 lead to a

Operators of the clients or RSs
suspected to have been compromised or that have been lost.

SHOULD

 have procedures in place to replace credentials that are

Operators also
erasing credentials and other security-critical material in the devices being decommissioned.

 have procedures for decommissioning devices that include securely

SHOULD

6.4.  Unprotected AS Request Creation Hints

Initially, no secure channel exists to protect the communication between the C and RS. Thus, the
C cannot determine if the AS Request Creation Hints contained in an unprotected response from
the RS to an unauthorized request (see Section 5.3) are authentic. Therefore, the C
determine if an AS is authorized to provide access tokens for a certain RS. How this
determination is implemented is out of scope for this document and left to the applications.

MUST

6.5.  Minimal Security Requirements for Communication

This section summarizes the minimal requirements for the communication security of the
different protocol interactions.

C-AS

MUST

All communication between the client and the authorization server
integrity and replay protected. Furthermore, responses from the AS to the client
bound to the client's request to avoid attacks where the attacker swaps the intended response
for an older one valid for a previous request. This requires that the client and the
authorization server have previously exchanged either a shared secret or their public keys in
order to negotiate a secure communication. Furthermore, the client
determine whether an AS has the authority to issue access tokens for a certain RS. This can,
for example, be done through preconfigured lists or through an online lookup mechanism
that in turn also must be secured.

 be encrypted and
MUST

 be able to

MUST

 be

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9200

RS-AS

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

MUST

 be encrypted and integrity and replay protected. Furthermore,
 be bound to the RS's request. This requires that the RS

The communication between the resource server and the authorization server via the
introspection endpoint
responses from the AS to the RS
and the authorization server have previously exchanged either a shared secret or their public
keys in order to negotiate a secure communication. Furthermore, the RS
determine whether an AS has the authority to issue access tokens itself. This is usually
configured out of band but could also be performed through an online lookup mechanism,
provided that it is also secured in the same way.

 be able to

MUST

MUST

C-RS

MUST

The initial communication between the client and the resource server cannot be secured in
general, since the RS is not in possession of on access token for that client, which would carry
the necessary parameters. If both parties support DTLS without client authentication, it is
 to use this mechanism for protecting the initial communication. After the
RECOMMENDED
client has successfully transmitted the access token to the RS, a secure communication
 be established between the client and RS for the actual resource request. This
protocol
protocol
 provide confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection, as well as a binding
between requests and responses. This requires that the client learned either the RS's public
key or received a symmetric proof-of-possession key bound to the access token from the AS.
The RS must have learned either the client's public key, a shared symmetric key from the
claims in the token, or an introspection request. Since ACE does not provide profile
negotiation between the C and RS, the client
(e.g., from the AS or preconfigured) and initiated the communication accordingly.

 have learned what profile the RS supports

MUST

MUST

6.6.  Token Freshness and Expiration

An RS that is offline faces the problem of clock drift. Since it cannot synchronize its clock with
the AS, it may be tricked into accepting old access tokens that are no longer valid or have been
compromised. In order to prevent this, an RS may use the nonce-based mechanism (cnonce)
defined in Section 5.3 to ensure freshness of an Access Token subsequently presented to this RS.

Another problem with clock drift is that evaluating the standard token expiration claim exp can
give unpredictable results.

Acceptable ranges of clock drift are highly dependent on the concrete application. Important
factors are how long access tokens are valid and how critical timely expiration of the access
token is.

The expiration mechanism implemented by the exi claim, based on the first time the RS sees the
token, was defined to provide a more predictable alternative. The exi approach has some
drawbacks that need to be considered:

•

A malicious client may hold back tokens with the exi claim in order to prolong their
lifespan.

•

If an RS loses state (e.g., due to an unscheduled reboot), it may lose the current values of
counters tracking the exi claims of tokens it is storing.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

The first drawback is inherent to the deployment scenario and the exi solution. It can therefore
not be mitigated without requiring the RS be online at times. The second drawback can be
mitigated by regularly storing the value of exi counters to persistent memory.

6.7.  Combining Profiles

There may be use cases where different transport and security protocols are allowed for the
different interactions, and, if that is not explicitly covered by an existing profile, it corresponds to
combining profiles into a new one. For example, a new profile could specify that a previously
defined MQTT-TLS profile is used between the client and the RS in combination with a previously
defined CoAP-DTLS profile for interactions between the client and the AS. The new profile that
combines existing profiles
MUST
satisfied. Therefore, any profile
document if its security depends on the combination of various protocol interactions.

 specify how the existing profiles' security requirements remain
MUST

 clearly specify its security requirements and

MUST

6.8.  Unprotected Information

Communication with the authz-info endpoint, as well as the various error responses defined in
this framework, potentially includes sending information over an unprotected channel. These
messages may leak information to an adversary or may be manipulated by active attackers to
induce incorrect behavior. For example, error responses for requests to the authorization
information endpoint can reveal information about an otherwise opaque access token to an
adversary who has intercepted this token.

As far as error messages are concerned, this framework is written under the assumption that, in
general, the benefits of detailed error messages outweigh the risk due to information leakage. For
particular use cases where this assessment does not apply, detailed error messages can be
replaced by more generic ones.

In some scenarios, it may be possible to protect the communication with the authz-info endpoint
(e.g., through DTLS with only server-side authentication). In cases where this is not possible, it is
RECOMMENDED
subjected to introspection by the RS.

 to use encrypted CWTs or tokens that are opaque references and need to be

If the initial Unauthorized Resource Request message (see Section 5.2) is used, the client
make sure that it is not sending sensitive content in this request. While GET and DELETE
requests only reveal the target URI of the resource, POST and PUT requests would reveal the
whole payload of the intended operation.

MUST

Since the client is not authenticated at the point when it is submitting an access token to the
authz-info endpoint, attackers may be pretending to be a client and trying to trick an RS to use an
obsolete profile that in turn specifies a vulnerable security mechanism via the authz-info
endpoint. Such an attack would require a valid access token containing an ace_profile claim
requesting the use of said obsolete profile. Resource owners should update the configuration of
their RSs to prevent them from using such obsolete profiles.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

6.9.  Identifying Audiences

[RFC8693]
The aud claim, as defined in
are intentionally vague on how to match the audience value to a specific RS. This is intended to
allow application-specific semantics to be used. This section attempts to give some general
guidance for the use of audiences in constrained environments.

, and the equivalent audience parameter from

[RFC7519]

URLs are not a good way of identifying mobile devices that can switch networks and thus be
associated with new URLs. If the audience represents a single RS and asymmetric keys are used,
the RS can be uniquely identified by a hash of its public key. If this approach is used, it is
RECOMMENDED

 to apply the procedure from

Section 3 of [RFC6920]
.

If the audience addresses a group of resource servers, the mapping of a group identifier to an
individual RS has to be provisioned to each RS before the group-audience is usable. Managing
dynamic groups could be an issue if any RS is not always reachable when the groups'
memberships change. Furthermore, issuing access tokens bound to symmetric proof-of-
possession keys that apply to a group-audience is problematic, as an RS that is in possession of
the access token can impersonate the client towards the other RSs that are part of the group. It is
 to issue access tokens bound to a group-audience and symmetric
therefore
proof-of possession keys.

NOT RECOMMENDED

Even the client must be able to determine the correct values to put into the audience parameter
in order to obtain a token for the intended RS. Errors in this process can lead to the client
inadvertently obtaining a token for the wrong RS. The correct values for audience can either be
provisioned to the client as part of its configuration or dynamically looked up by the client in
some directory. In the latter case, the integrity and correctness of the directory data must be
assured. Note that the audience hint provided by the RS as part of the AS Request Creation Hints
(Section 5.3) is not typically source authenticated and integrity protected and should therefore
not be treated a trusted value.

6.10.  Denial of Service Against or with Introspection

The optional introspection mechanism provided by OAuth and supported in the ACE framework
allows for two types of attacks that need to be considered by implementers.

First, an attacker could perform a denial-of-service attack against the introspection endpoint at
the AS in order to prevent validation of access tokens. To maintain the security of the system, an
RS that is configured to use introspection
couldn't reach the introspection endpoint.

 allow access based on a token for which it

MUST NOT

Second, an attacker could use the fact that an RS performs introspection to perform a denial-of-
service attack against that RS by repeatedly sending tokens to its authz-info endpoint that require
an introspection call. The RS can mitigate such attacks by implementing rate limits on how many
introspection requests they perform in a given time interval for a certain client IP address

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

submitting tokens to /authz-info. When that limit has been reached, incoming requests from that
address are rejected for a certain amount of time. A general rate limit on the introspection
requests should also be considered in order to mitigate distributed attacks.

7.  Privacy Considerations

Implementers and users should be aware of the privacy implications of the different possible
deployments of this framework.

The AS is in a very central position and can potentially learn sensitive information about the
clients requesting access tokens. If the client credentials grant is used, the AS can track what kind
of access the client intends to perform. With other grants, this can be prevented by the resource
owner. To do so, the resource owner needs to bind the grants it issues to anonymous, ephemeral
credentials that do not allow the AS to link different grants and thus different access token
requests by the same client.

The claims contained in a token can reveal privacy-sensitive information about the client and the
RS to any party having access to them (whether by processing the content of a self-contained
token or by introspection). The AS
 be configured to minimize the information about
clients and RSs disclosed in the tokens it issues.

SHOULD

If tokens are only integrity protected and not encrypted, they may reveal information to
attackers listening on the wire or be able to acquire the access tokens in some other way. In the
case of CWTs, the token may, e.g., reveal the audience, the scope, and the confirmation method
used by the client. The latter may reveal the identity of the device or application running the
client. This may be linkable to the identity of the person using the client (if there is a person and
not a machine-to-machine interaction).

Clients using asymmetric keys for proof of possession should be aware of the consequences of
using the same key pair for proof of possession towards different RSs. A set of colluding RSs or an
attacker able to obtain the access tokens will be able to link the requests or even to determine the
client's identity.

An unprotected response to an unauthorized request (see Section 5.3) may disclose information
about the RS and/or its existing relationship with the C. It is advisable to include as little
information as possible in an unencrypted response. Even the absolute URI of the AS may reveal
sensitive information about the service that the RS provides. Developers must ensure that the RS
does not disclose information that has an impact on the privacy of the stakeholders in the AS
Request Creation Hints. They may choose to use a different mechanism for the discovery of the
AS if necessary. If means of encrypting communication between the C and RS already exist, more
detailed information may be included with an error response to provide the C with sufficient
information to react on that particular error.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

8.  IANA Considerations

This document creates several registries with a registration policy of Expert Review; guidelines
to the experts are given in Section 8.17.

8.1.  ACE Authorization Server Request Creation Hints

This specification establishes the IANA "ACE Authorization Server Request Creation Hints"
registry.

The columns of the registry are:

Name:

The name of the parameter.

CBOR Key:

CBOR map key for the parameter. Different ranges of values use different

[RFC8126]

registration policies
Action. Integer values from -65536 to -257 and from 256 to 65535 are designated as
Specification Required. Integer values greater than 65535 are designated as Expert Review.
Integer values less than -65536 are marked as Private Use.

. Integer values from -256 to 255 are designated as Standards

Value Type:

The CBOR data types allowable for the values of this parameter.

Reference:

This contains a pointer to the public specification of the Request Creation Hint

abbreviation, if one exists.

This registry has been initially populated by the values in Table 1. The Reference column for all
of these entries is this document.

8.2.  CoRE Resource Types

IANA has registered a new Resource Type (rt=) Link Target Attribute in the "Resource Type (rt=)
Link Target Attribute Values" subregistry under the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE)
Parameters"

[IANA.CoreParameters]

 registry:

ace.ai

Value:
Description:
Reference:

ACE-OAuth authz-info endpoint resource.

RFC 9200

Specific ACE-OAuth profiles can use this common resource type for defining their profile-specific
discovery processes.

8.3.  OAuth Extensions Errors

This specification registers the following error values in the "OAuth Extensions Error Registry"
[IANA.OAuthExtensionsErrorRegistry]
.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

unsupported_pop_key

token error response

Name:
Usage Location:
Protocol Extension:
Change Controller:
Reference:

RFC 9200
IETF

Section 5.8.3 of RFC 9200

incompatible_ace_profiles
token error response

Name:
Usage Location:
Protocol Extension:
Change Controller:
Reference:

RFC 9200
IETF

Section 5.8.3 of RFC 9200

8.4.  OAuth Error Code CBOR Mappings

This specification establishes the IANA "OAuth Error Code CBOR Mappings" registry.

The columns of the registry are:

Name:

The OAuth Error Code name, refers to the name in

Section 5.2 of [RFC6749]

, e.g.,

"invalid_request".

CBOR Value:

CBOR abbreviation for this error code. Integer values less than -65536 are marked

as Private Use; all other values use the registration policy Expert Review

[RFC8126]

.

Reference:

This contains a pointer to the public specification of the error code abbreviation, if

one exists.

Original Specification:

This contains a pointer to the public specification of the error code, if

one exists.

This registry has been initially populated by the values in Table 3. The Reference column for all
of these entries is this document.

8.5.  OAuth Grant Type CBOR Mappings

This specification establishes the IANA "OAuth Grant Type CBOR Mappings" registry.

The columns of this registry are:

Name:

The name of the grant type, as specified in

Section 1.3 of [RFC6749]

.

CBOR Value:

CBOR abbreviation for this grant type. Integer values less than -65536 are marked

as Private Use; all other values use the registration policy Expert Review

[RFC8126]

.

Reference:

This contains a pointer to the public specification of the grant type abbreviation, if

one exists.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Original Specification: This contains a pointer to the public specification of the grant type, if one

exists.

This registry has been initially populated by the values in Table 4. The Reference column for all
of these entries is this document.

8.6.  OAuth Access Token Types

This section registers the following new token type in the "OAuth Access Token Types" registry
[IANA.OAuthAccessTokenTypes]
.

Name:
Additional Token Endpoint Response Parameters:

PoP

Section 3.2 of [RFC9201]
HTTP Authentication Scheme(s):
Change Controller:
Reference:

RFC 9200

IETF

).

N/A

cnf, rs_cnf (see

Section 3.1 of [RFC8747]

 and

8.7.  OAuth Access Token Type CBOR Mappings

This specification establishes the IANA "OAuth Access Token Type CBOR Mappings" registry.

The columns of this registry are:

Name:

The name of the token type, as registered in the "OAuth Access Token Types" registry,

e.g., "Bearer".

CBOR Value:

CBOR abbreviation for this token type. Integer values less than -65536 are marked

as Private Use; all other values use the registration policy Expert Review

[RFC8126]

.

Reference:

This contains a pointer to the public specification of the OAuth token type

abbreviation, if one exists.

Original Specification:
type, if one exists.

This contains a pointer to the public specification of the OAuth token

8.7.1.  Initial Registry Contents

Bearer
1

Name:
CBOR Value:
RFC 9200
Reference:
Original Specification:

[RFC6749]

PoP
Name:
CBOR Value:
RFC 9200
Reference:
Original Specification:

2

RFC 9200

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

8.8.  ACE Profiles

This specification establishes the IANA "ACE Profile" registry.

The columns of this registry are:

Name:

The name of the profile to be used as the value of the profile attribute.

Description:

Text giving an overview of the profile and the context it is developed for.

CBOR Value:

CBOR abbreviation for this profile name. Different ranges of values use different
. Integer values from -256 to 255 are designated as Standards

registration policies
Action. Integer values from -65536 to -257 and from 256 to 65535 are designated as
Specification Required. Integer values greater than 65535 are designated as Expert Review.
Integer values less than -65536 are marked as Private Use.

[RFC8126]

Reference:
exists.

This contains a pointer to the public specification of the profile abbreviation, if one

8.9.  OAuth Parameters

This specification registers the following parameter in the "OAuth Parameters" registry
[IANA.OAuthParameters]
:

ace_profile

Name:
Parameter Usage Location:
IETF
Change Controller:
Reference:

token response

Sections 5.8.2 and 5.8.4.3 of RFC 9200

8.10.  OAuth Parameters CBOR Mappings

This specification establishes the IANA "OAuth Parameters CBOR Mappings" registry.

The columns of this registry are:

Name:

The OAuth Parameter name, refers to the name in the OAuth parameter registry, e.g.,

client_id.

CBOR Key:

CBOR map key for this parameter. Integer values less than -65536 are marked as

Private Use; all other values use the registration policy Expert Review

[RFC8126]

.

Value Type:

The allowable CBOR data types for values of this parameter.

Reference:

This contains a pointer to the public specification of the OAuth parameter

abbreviation, if one exists.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Original Specification This contains a pointer to the public specification of the OAuth

parameter, if one exists.

This registry has been initially populated by the values in Table 5. The Reference column for all
of these entries is this document.

8.11.  OAuth Introspection Response Parameters

This specification registers the following parameters in the "OAuth Token Introspection
Response" registry

[IANA.TokenIntrospectionResponse]
.

ace_profile

Name:
Description:
Change Controller:
Reference:

IETF

Section 5.9.2 of RFC 9200

The ACE profile used between the client and RS.

Name:
Description:

cnonce

"client-nonce". A nonce previously provided to the AS by the RS via the client. Used

to verify token freshness when the RS cannot synchronize its clock with the AS.

Change Controller:
Reference:

IETF

Section 5.9.2 of RFC 9200

cti
Name
Description
Change Controller
Reference

IETF

Section 5.9.2 of RFC 9200

"CWT ID". The identifier of a CWT as defined in

[RFC8392]

.

exi
Name:
Description:

"Expires in". Lifetime of the token in seconds from the time the RS first sees it. Used

to implement a weaker form of token expiration for devices that cannot synchronize their
internal clocks.
Change Controller:
Reference:

Section 5.9.2 of RFC 9200

IETF

8.12.  OAuth Token Introspection Response CBOR Mappings

This specification establishes the IANA "OAuth Token Introspection Response CBOR Mappings"
registry.

The columns of this registry are:

Name:

The OAuth Parameter name, refers to the name in the OAuth parameter registry, e.g.,

client_id.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

CBOR Key:

CBOR map key for this parameter. Integer values less than -65536 are marked as

Private Use; all other values use the registration policy Expert Review

[RFC8126]

.

Value Type:

The allowable CBOR data types for values of this parameter.

Reference:

This contains a pointer to the public specification of the introspection response

parameter abbreviation, if one exists.

Original Specification

This contains a pointer to the public specification of the OAuth Token

Introspection parameter, if one exists.

This registry has been initially populated by the values in Table 6. The Reference column for all
of these entries is this document.

Note that the mappings of parameters corresponding to claim names intentionally coincide with
[RFC8392]
.
the CWT claim name mappings from

8.13.  JSON Web Token Claims

This specification registers the following new claims in the "JSON Web Token Claims" subregistry
under the "JSON Web Token (JWT)" registry

[IANA.JsonWebTokenClaims]
:

ace_profile

Claim Name:
Claim Description:
Change Controller:
Reference:

Section 5.10 of RFC 9200

The ACE profile a token is supposed to be used with.
IETF

Claim Name:
Claim Description:

cnonce

"client-nonce". A nonce previously provided to the AS by the RS via the

client. Used to verify token freshness when the RS cannot synchronize its clock with the AS.

Change Controller:
Reference:

IETF

Section 5.10 of RFC 9200

exi
Claim Name:
Claim Description:

"Expires in". Lifetime of the token in seconds from the time the RS first sees
it. Used to implement a weaker form of token expiration for devices that cannot synchronize
their internal clocks.

Change Controller:
Reference:

IETF

Section 5.10.3 of RFC 9200

8.14.  CBOR Web Token Claims

This specification registers the following new claims in the "CBOR Web Token (CWT) Claims"
registry

[IANA.CborWebTokenClaims]
.

Claim Name:

ace_profile

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Claim Description:
JWT Claim Name:
Claim Key:
Claim Value Type:
Change Controller:
Reference:

38

The ACE profile a token is supposed to be used with.
ace_profile

integer
IETF

Section 5.10 of RFC 9200

cnonce

Claim Name:
Claim Description:
JWT Claim Name:
Claim Key:
Claim Value Type:
Change Controller:
Reference:

39

exi
Claim Name:
Claim Description:
RS in seconds.
JWT Claim Name:
Claim Key:
Claim Value Type:
Change Controller:
Reference:

40

scope

Claim Name:
Claim Description:
JWT Claim Name:
Claim Key:
Claim Value Type:
Change Controller:
Reference:

9

The client-nonce sent to the AS by the RS via the client.
cnonce

byte string
IETF

Section 5.10 of RFC 9200

The expiration time of a token measured from when it was received at the

exi

unsigned integer
IETF

Section 5.10.3 of RFC 9200

The scope of an access token, as defined in
scope

[RFC6749]

.

byte string or text string
IETF

Section 4.2 of [RFC8693]

8.15.  Media Type Registration

This specification registers the "application/ace+cbor" media type for messages of the protocols
defined in this document carrying parameters encoded in CBOR. This registration follows the
procedures specified in

[RFC6838]
.

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

ace+cbor

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Encoding considerations:
defined in RFC 9200.

Must be encoded as a CBOR map containing the protocol parameters

Security considerations:

See Section 6 of RFC 9200

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published specification:

RFC 9200

Applications that use this media type:

The type is used by authorization servers, clients, and
resource servers that support the ACE framework with CBOR encoding, as specified in RFC
9200.

Fragment identifier considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

IESG <iesg@ietf.org>

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

none

Author:

Ludwig Seitz <ludwig.seitz@combitech.se>

Change controller:

IETF

8.16.  CoAP Content-Formats

The following entry has been registered in the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry:

application/ace+cbor

Media Type:
-
Encoding:
ID:
Reference:

19

RFC 9200

8.17.  Expert Review Instructions

All of the IANA registries established in this document are defined to use a registration policy of
Expert Review. This section gives some general guidelines for what the experts should be looking
for, but they are being designated as experts for a reason, so they should be given substantial
latitude.

Expert Reviewers should take into consideration the following points:

•

Point squatting should be discouraged. Reviewers are encouraged to get sufficient
information for registration requests to ensure that the usage is not going to duplicate one
that is already registered and that the point is likely to be used in deployments. The zones
tagged as Private Use are intended for testing purposes and closed environments; code
points in other ranges should not be assigned for testing.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

•

Specifications are needed for the first-come, first-serve range if they are expected to be used
outside of closed environments in an interoperable way. When specifications are not
provided, the description provided needs to have sufficient information to identify what the
point is being used for.

•

Experts should take into account the expected usage of fields when approving point
assignment. The fact that there is a range for Standards Track documents does not mean that
a Standards Track document cannot have points assigned outside of that range. The length of
the encoded value should be weighed against how many code points of that length are left,
i.e., the size of device it will be used on.

•

[IANA.OAuthParameters]

Since a high degree of overlap is expected between these registries and the contents of the
OAuth parameters
registrations to maintain alignment with parameters from OAuth that have comparable
functionality. Deviation from this alignment should only be allowed if there are functional
differences that are motivated by the use case and that cannot be easily or efficiently
addressed by comparable OAuth parameters.

 registries, experts should require new

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[IANA.CborWebTokenClaims]

assignments/cwt>

,

IANA "CBOR Web Token (CWT) Claims" <https://www.iana.org/
.

,

[IANA.CoreParameters]

IANA "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters"

,

,

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/core-parameters>

.

[IANA.JsonWebTokenClaims]

IANA "JSON Web Token Claims" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

assignments/jwt>

.

[IANA.OAuthAccessTokenTypes]

IANA "OAuth Access Token Types" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

assignments/oauth-parameters>

.

[IANA.OAuthExtensionsErrorRegistry]

IANA "OAuth Extensions Error Registry" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/oauth-parameters>

.

[IANA.OAuthParameters]

IANA "OAuth Parameters" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/

,

,
oauth-parameters>

.

[IANA.TokenIntrospectionResponse]

IANA "OAuth Token Introspection Response" <https://

,

,

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

www.iana.org/assignments/oauth-parameters>

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

.

,

,

,

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

,

, January 2005,

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

[RFC4648]

[RFC6347]

[RFC6749]

[RFC6750]

[RFC6838]

[RFC6920]

[RFC7252]

[RFC7519]

[RFC7662]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8152]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8392]

[RFC8610]

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

 and

Rescorla, E.
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
rfc6347>

,
.

,

N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2012,

Hardt, D., Ed. "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework" RFC 6749 DOI
10.17487/RFC6749

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6749>

, October 2012,

,

,

,

.

 and

Jones, M.
Usage" RFC 6750 DOI 10.17487/RFC6750
editor.org/info/rfc6750>

,

,

.

D. Hardt "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework: Bearer Token

,

, October 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

Freed, N. Klensin, J.
,
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

,

.

T. Hansen "Media Type Specifications and Registration

,

, January 2013,

<https://

,

Farrell, S. Kutscher, D. Dannewitz, C. Ohlman, B. Keranen, A.
Baker "Naming Things with Hashes" RFC 6920 DOI 10.17487/RFC6920
2013,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6920>

, and

,
,

,
.

,

,

P. Hallam-
, April

Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
,
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
10.17487/RFC7519

, and

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

.

Richer, J., Ed. "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection" RFC 7662 DOI 10.17487/RFC7662
,
,
October 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7662>

,
.

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)" RFC 8152 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8152>
10.17487/RFC8152
.

, July 2017,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Jones, M. Wahlstroem, E. Erdtman, S.
(CWT)" RFC 8392 DOI 10.17487/RFC8392
,
info/rfc8392>

,

,

.

, and

H. Tschofenig "CBOR Web Token

,

, May 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, and

Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
,
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Definition Language

, June 2019,

,

,

.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

[RFC8693]

[RFC8747]

[RFC8949]

[RFC9201]

,

Jones, M. Nadalin, A. Campbell, B., Ed. Bradley, J.
Token Exchange" RFC 8693 DOI 10.17487/RFC8693
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8693>

,

,

,

,

.

, and

C. Mortimore "OAuth 2.0

,

, January 2020,

<https://

,

Jones, M. Seitz, L. Selander, G. Erdtman, S.
Possession Key Semantics for CBOR Web Tokens (CWTs)" RFC 8747 DOI
10.17487/RFC8747

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8747>

H. Tschofenig "Proof-of-

, March 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Bormann, C.
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
editor.org/info/rfc8949>

P. Hoffman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
 and
<https://www.rfc-
,

, December 2020,

,

.

,

,

,

Seitz, L. "Additional OAuth Parameters for Authentication and Authorization in
Constrained Environments (ACE)" RFC 9201 DOI 10.17487/RFC9201
,
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9201>

, August

.

,

9.2.  Informative References

[BLE]

[DCAF]

Bluetooth Special Interest Group "Core Specification 5.3" Section 4.4
<https://www.bluetooth.com/specifications/bluetooth-core-specification/>

, July 2021,
.

,

,

,

, and

Gerdes, S. Bergmann, O.
Authorization Framework (DCAF)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
gerdes-ace-dcaf-authorize-04
, 19 October 2015,
html/draft-gerdes-ace-dcaf-authorize-04>

C. Bormann "Delegated CoAP Authentication and
,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/

,

,

.

[Margi10impact]

,

,

,

, and

Margi, C. de Oliveira, B. de Sousa, G. Simplicio Jr, M. Barreto, P. Carvalho,
,
R. Gold "Impact of Operating Systems on Wireless Sensor

T. Naeslund, M.
Networks (Security) Applications and Testbeds" Proceedings of the 19th
International Conference on Computer Communications and Networks DOI
,
10.1109/ICCCN.2010.5560028
2010.5560028>
.

<https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCCN.

, August 2010,

,

,

,

,

[MQTT5.0]

[OAUTH-RPCC]

[POP-KEY-DIST]

[RFC4949]

Banks, A. Briggs, E. Borgendale, K.
Standard
v5.0.html>

,
, March 2019,

,

.

, and

R. Gupta "MQTT Version 5.0" OASIS

,

,

<https://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v5.0/mqtt-

,

Seitz, L. Erdtman, S.

,
OAuth client credentials" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-erdtman-
oauth-rpcc-00
erdtman-oauth-rpcc-00>

, 21 November 2017,
.

M. Tiloca "Raw-Public-Key and Pre-Shared-Key as

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-

, and
,

,

Bradley, J. Hunt, P. Jones, M. Tschofenig, H.

,

,

,

, and

M. Meszaros "OAuth 2.0
,

Proof-of-Possession: Authorization Server to Client Key Distribution" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-pop-key-distribution-07
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-pop-key-distribution-07>

, 27 March 2019,

,

,

.

Shirey, R. "Internet Security Glossary, Version 2" FYI 36 RFC 4949 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC4949

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4949>

, August 2007,

,

,

,

.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

[RFC6690]

[RFC6819]

[RFC7009]

[RFC7228]

[RFC7521]

[RFC7591]

[RFC7641]

[RFC7744]

[RFC7959]

[RFC8252]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8414]

[RFC8446]

Shelby, Z. "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format" RFC 6690
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6690>
DOI 10.17487/RFC6690

, August 2012,

,

,

,
.

Lodderstedt, T., Ed. McGloin, M.
Security Considerations" RFC 6819 DOI 10.17487/RFC6819
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6819>

, and
,

,

,

.

P. Hunt "OAuth 2.0 Threat Model and

,

, January 2013,

Lodderstedt, T., Ed. Dronia, S.
RFC 7009 DOI 10.17487/RFC7009
rfc7009>

,
.

,

, and

,
M. Scurtescu "OAuth 2.0 Token Revocation"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2013,

,

Bormann, C. Ersue, M.
Networks" RFC 7228 DOI 10.17487/RFC7228
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7228>

, and

.

A. Keranen "Terminology for Constrained-Node

,

, May 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Campbell, B. Mortimore, C. Jones, M.
OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization Grants" RFC 7521 DOI
10.17487/RFC7521

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7521>

Y. Goland "Assertion Framework for

, May 2015,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Richer, J., Ed. Jones, M. Bradley, J. Machulak, M.
, and
,
Dynamic Client Registration Protocol" RFC 7591 DOI 10.17487/RFC7591
,
2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7591>

P. Hunt "OAuth 2.0

,

,

,

.

, July

,

Hartke, K. "Observing Resources in the Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP)" RFC 7641 DOI 10.17487/RFC7641
editor.org/info/rfc7641>

, September 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Seitz, L., Ed. Gerdes, S., Ed. Selander, G. Mani, M.
S. Kumar "Use Cases for
,
Authentication and Authorization in Constrained Environments" RFC 7744 DOI
10.17487/RFC7744

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7744>

, January 2016,

, and

,
.

,
,

,

 and

Bormann, C.
,
Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 7959 DOI 10.17487/RFC7959
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7959>

Z. Shelby, Ed. "Block-Wise Transfers in the Constrained

,

,

.

, August 2016,

Denniss, W.
10.17487/RFC8252

 and

J. Bradley "OAuth 2.0 for Native Apps" BCP 212 RFC 8252 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8252>
.

,
, October 2017,

,

,

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

Jones, M. Sakimura, N.
Metadata" RFC 8414 DOI 10.17487/RFC8414
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8414>

, and

.

J. Bradley "OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server
, June 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

[RFC8516]

[RFC8613]

[RFC8628]

[RFC9000]

[RFC9110]

[RFC9113]

[RFC9147]

[RFC9202]

[RFC9203]

,

Keranen, A. ""Too Many Requests" Response Code for the Constrained
Application Protocol" RFC 8516 DOI 10.17487/RFC8516
, January 2019,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8516>

.

,

<https://

,

L. Seitz "Object Security for
Selander, G. Mattsson, J. Palombini, F.
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)" RFC 8613 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8613

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8613>

, July 2019,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Denniss, W. Bradley, J. Jones, M.
Authorization Grant" RFC 8628 DOI 10.17487/RFC8628
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8628>

, and

,

,

.

H. Tschofenig "OAuth 2.0 Device

,

, August 2019,

<https://

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Secure Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9000>

 and
,

,

.

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and

,

, May 2021,

<https://

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

.

,

,

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Thomson, M., Ed.
RFC9113

, June 2022,

 and

C. Benfield, Ed. "HTTP/2" RFC 9113 DOI 10.17487/
,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9113>

.

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

,

Gerdes, S. Bergmann, O. Bormann, C. Selander, G.
,
,
Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Profile for Authentication and Authorization
for Constrained Environments (ACE)" RFC 9202 DOI 10.17487/RFC9202
,
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9202>

L. Seitz "Datagram

, and

,
.

,

, August

,

,

Palombini, F. Seitz, L. Selander, G.
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE) Profile of the Authentication and
Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE) Framework" RFC 9203 DOI
10.17487/RFC9203

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9203>

M. Gunnarsson "The Object Security for

, August 2022,

, and

,
.

,

,

Appendix A.  Design Justification

This section provides further insight into the design decisions of the solution documented in this
document. Section 3 lists several building blocks and briefly summarizes their importance. The
justification for offering some of those building blocks, as opposed to using OAuth 2.0 as is, is
given below.

Common IoT constraints are:

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Low Power Radio:

Many IoT devices are equipped with a small battery that needs to last for a long time. For
many constrained wireless devices, the highest energy cost is associated to transmitting or
receiving messages (roughly by a factor of 10 compared to AES)
therefore important to keep the total communication overhead low, including minimizing the
number and size of messages sent and received, which has an impact of choice on the
message format and protocol. By using CoAP over UDP and CBOR-encoded messages, some of
these aspects are addressed. Security protocols contribute to the communication overhead
and can, in some cases, be optimized. For example, authentication and key establishment
may, in certain cases where security requirements allow, be replaced by the provisioning of
security context by a trusted third party, using transport or application-layer security.

[Margi10impact]

. It is

Low CPU Speed:

Some IoT devices are equipped with processors that are significantly slower than those found
in most current devices on the Internet. This typically has implications on what timely
cryptographic operations a device is capable of performing, which in turn impacts, e.g.,
protocol latency. Symmetric key cryptography may be used instead of the computationally
more expensive public key cryptography where the security requirements so allow, but this
may also require support for trusted, third-party-assisted secret key establishment using
transport- or application-layer security.

Small Amount of Memory:

Microcontrollers embedded in IoT devices are often equipped with only a small amount of
RAM and flash memory, which places limitations on what kind of processing can be
performed and how much code can be put on those devices. To reduce code size, fewer and
smaller protocol implementations can be put on the firmware of such a device. In this case,
CoAP may be used instead of HTTP, symmetric-key cryptography may be used instead of
public-key cryptography, and CBOR may be used instead of JSON. An authentication and key
establishment protocol, e.g., the DTLS handshake, in comparison with assisted key
establishment, also has an impact on memory and code footprints.

User Interface Limitations:

Protecting access to resources is both an important security as well as privacy feature. End
users and enterprise customers may not want to give access to the data collected by their IoT
device or to functions it may offer to third parties. Since the classical approach of requesting
permissions from end users via a rich user interface does not work in many IoT deployment
scenarios, these functions need to be delegated to user-controlled devices that are better
suitable for such tasks, such as smartphones and tablets.

Communication Constraints:

In certain constrained settings, an IoT device may not be able to communicate with a given
device at all times. Devices may be sleeping or just disconnected from the Internet because of
general lack of connectivity in the area, cost reasons, or security reasons, e.g., to avoid an
entry point for denial-of-service attacks.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

The communication interactions this framework builds upon (as shown graphically in Figure
1) may be accomplished using a variety of different protocols, and not all parts of the message
flow are used in all applications due to the communication constraints. Deployments making
use of CoAP are expected, but this framework is not limited to them. Other protocols, such as
HTTP or Bluetooth Smart communication, that do not necessarily use IP could also be used.
The latter raises the need for application-layer security over the various interfaces.

In the light of these constraints, we have made the following design decisions:

CBOR, COSE, CWT:

RECOMMENDED

When using this framework, it is
Where CBOR data needs to be protected, the use of COSE
Furthermore, where self-contained tokens are needed, it is
[RFC8392]
. These measures aim at reducing the size of messages sent over the wire, the RAM
size of data objects that need to be kept in memory, and the size of libraries that devices need
to support.

 as the data format.

.
RECOMMENDED

RECOMMENDED

 to use CBOR

 to use CWT

[RFC8152]

[RFC8949]

 is

CoAP:

RECOMMENDED

When using this framework, it is
does not preclude the use of other protocols specifically aimed at constrained devices, e.g.,
Bluetooth Low Energy (see Section 3.2). This aims again at reducing the size of messages sent
over the wire, the RAM size of data objects that need to be kept in memory, and the size of
libraries that devices need to support.

 instead of HTTP. This

 to use CoAP

[RFC7252]

Access Information:

This framework defines the name "Access Information" for data concerning the RS that the AS
returns to the client in an access token response (see Section 5.8.2). This aims at enabling
scenarios where a powerful client supporting multiple profiles needs to interact with an RS
for which it does not know the supported profiles and the raw public key.

Proof of Possession:

This framework makes use of proof-of-possession tokens, using the cnf claim
request parameter cnf and a Response parameter cnf, both having a value space
semantically and syntactically identical to the cnf claim, are defined for the token endpoint to
allow requesting and stating confirmation keys. This aims at making token theft harder.
Token theft is specifically relevant in constrained use cases, as communication often passes
through middleboxes, which could be able to steal bearer tokens and use them to gain
unauthorized access.

[RFC8747]

. A

Authz-Info endpoint:

This framework introduces a new way of providing access tokens to an RS by exposing an
authz-info endpoint to which access tokens can be POSTed. This aims at reducing the size of
the request message and the code complexity at the RS. The size of the request message is
problematic, since many constrained protocols have severe message size limitations at the
physical layer (e.g., in the order of 100 bytes). This means that larger packets get fragmented,

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

which in turn combines badly with the high rate of packet loss and the need to retransmit the
whole message if one packet gets lost. Thus, separating sending of the request and sending of
the access tokens helps to reduce fragmentation.

Client Credentials Grant:

In this framework, the use of the client credentials grant is
machine communication use cases, where manual intervention of the resource owner to
produce a grant token is not feasible. The intention is that the resource owner would instead
prearrange authorization with the AS based on the client's own credentials. The client can
then (without manual intervention) obtain access tokens from the AS.

 for machine-to-

RECOMMENDED

Introspection:

RECOMMENDED

In this framework, the use of access token introspection is
client is constrained in a way that it cannot easily obtain new access tokens (i.e., it has
connectivity issues that prevent it from communicating with the AS). In that case, it is
RECOMMENDED
to be able to communicate with the AS and can therefore perform introspection in order to
learn the claims associated with the token reference. The advantage of such an approach is
that the resource owner can change the claims associated to the token reference without
having to be in contact with the client, thus granting or revoking access rights.

 to use a long-term token that could be a simple reference. The RS is assumed

 in cases where the

Appendix B.  Roles and Responsibilities

Resource Owner

•

Make sure that the RS is registered at the AS. This includes making known to the AS which
profiles, token_type, scopes, and key types (symmetric/asymmetric) the RS supports. Also
making it known to the AS which audience(s) the RS identifies itself with.

•

Make sure that clients can discover the AS that is in charge of the RS.

•

If the client-credentials grant is used, make sure that the AS has the necessary, up-to-date
access control policies for the RS.

Requesting Party

•

Make sure that the client is provisioned the necessary credentials to authenticate to the
AS.

•

Make sure that the client is configured to follow the security requirements of the
requesting party when issuing requests (e.g., minimum communication security
requirements or trust anchors).

•

Register the client at the AS. This includes making known to the AS which profiles,
token_types, and key types (symmetric/asymmetric) for the client.

Authorization Server

•

Register the RS and manage corresponding security contexts.

•

Register clients and authentication credentials.

•

Allow resource owners to configure and update access control policies related to their
registered RSs.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

•

Expose the token endpoint to allow clients to request tokens.

•

Authenticate clients that wish to request a token.

•

Process a token request using the authorization policies configured for the RS.

•

Optionally, expose the introspection endpoint that allows RSs to submit token
introspection requests.

•

If providing an introspection endpoint, authenticate RSs that wish to get an introspection
response.

•

If providing an introspection endpoint, process token introspection requests.

•

Optionally, handle token revocation.

•

Optionally, provide discovery metadata. See

[RFC8414]

.

•

Optionally, handle refresh tokens.

Client

•

Discover the AS in charge of the RS that is to be targeted with a request.

•

Submit the token request (see step (A) of Figure 1).
◦

Authenticate to the AS.

◦

Optionally (if not preconfigured), specify which RS, which resource(s), and which
action(s) the request(s) will target.

◦

If raw public keys (RPKs) or certificates are used, make sure the AS has the right RPK or
certificate for this client.

•

Process the access token and Access Information (see step (B) of Figure 1).
◦

Check that the Access Information provides the necessary security parameters (e.g., PoP
key or information on communication security protocols supported by the RS).

◦

Safely store the proof-of-possession key.

◦

If provided by the AS, safely store the refresh token.

•

Send the token and request to the RS (see step (C) of Figure 1).
◦

Authenticate towards the RS (this could coincide with the proof-of-possession process).

◦

Transmit the token as specified by the AS (default is to the authz-info endpoint;
alternative options are specified by profiles).

◦

Perform the proof-of-possession procedure as specified by the profile in use (this may
already have been taken care of through the authentication procedure).

•

Process the RS response (see step (F) of Figure 1) of the RS.

Resource Server

•

Expose a way to submit access tokens. By default, this is the authz-info endpoint.

•

Process an access token.

◦

Verify the token is from a recognized AS.

◦

Check the token's integrity.

◦

Verify that the token applies to this RS.

◦

Check that the token has not expired (if the token provides expiration information).

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 60

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

◦

Store the token so that it can be retrieved in the context of a matching request.

Note: The order proposed here is not normative; any process that arrives at an equivalent
result can be used. A noteworthy consideration is whether one can use cheap operations
early on to quickly discard nonapplicable or invalid tokens before performing expensive
cryptographic operations (e.g., doing an expiration check before verifying a signature).

•

Process a request.
◦

Set up communication security with the client.

◦

Authenticate the client.

◦

Match the client against existing tokens.

◦

Check that tokens belonging to the client actually authorize the requested action.

◦

Optionally, check that the matching tokens are still valid, using introspection (if this is
possible.)

•

Send a response following the agreed upon communication security mechanism(s).

•

Safely store credentials, such as raw public keys, for authentication or proof-of-possession
keys linked to access tokens.

Appendix C.  Requirements on Profiles

This section lists the requirements on profiles of this framework for the convenience of profile
designers.

•

Optionally, define new methods for the client to discover the necessary permissions and AS
for accessing a resource different from the one proposed in Sections 5.1 and 4

•

Optionally, specify new grant types (Section 5.4).

•

Optionally, define the use of client certificates as client credential type (Section 5.5).

•

Specify the communication protocol the client and RS must use (e.g., CoAP) (Sections 5 and
5.8.4.3).

•

Specify the security protocol the client and RS must use to protect their communication (e.g.,
OSCORE or DTLS). This must provide encryption and integrity and replay protection (Section
5.8.4.3).

•

Specify how the client and the RS mutually authenticate (Section 4).

•

Specify the proof-of-possession protocol(s) and how to select one if several are available. Also
specify which key types (e.g., symmetric/asymmetric) are supported by a specific proof-of-
possession protocol (Section 5.8.4.2).

•

Specify a unique ace_profile identifier (Section 5.8.4.3).

•

If introspection is supported, specify the communication and security protocol for
introspection (Section 5.9).

•

Specify the communication and security protocol for interactions between the client and AS.
This must provide encryption, integrity protection, replay protection, and a binding between
requests and responses (Sections 5 and 5.8).

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 61

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

•

Specify how/if the authz-info endpoint is protected, including how error responses are
protected (Section 5.10.1).

•

Optionally, define other methods of token transport than the authz-info endpoint (Section
5.10.1).

Appendix D.  Assumptions on AS Knowledge about the C and
RS

This section lists the assumptions on what an AS should know about a client and an RS in order
to be able to respond to requests to the token and introspection endpoints. How this information
is established is out of scope for this document.

•

The identifier of the client or RS.

•

The profiles that the client or RS supports.

•

The scopes that the RS supports.

•

The audiences that the RS identifies with.

•

The key types (e.g., pre-shared symmetric key, raw public key, key length, and other key
parameters) that the client or RS supports.

•

The types of access tokens the RS supports (e.g., CWT).

•

If the RS supports CWTs, the COSE parameters for the crypto wrapper (e.g., algorithm, key-
wrap algorithm, and key-length) that the RS supports.

•

The expiration time for access tokens issued to this RS (unless the RS accepts a default time
chosen by the AS).

•

The symmetric key shared between the client and AS (if any).

•

The symmetric key shared between the RS and AS (if any).

•

The raw public key of the client or RS (if any).

•

Whether the RS has synchronized time (and thus is able to use the exp claim) or not.

Appendix E.  Differences to OAuth 2.0

This document adapts OAuth 2.0 to be suitable for constrained environments. This section lists
the main differences from the normative requirements of OAuth 2.0.

Use of TLS

OAuth 2.0 requires the use of TLS to protect the communication between the AS and client
when requesting an access token, between the client and RS when accessing a resource, and
between the AS and RS if introspection is used. This framework requires similar security
properties but does not require that they be realized with TLS. See Section 5.

Cardinality of grant_type parameter

In client-to-AS requests using OAuth 2.0, the grant_type parameter is required (per
[RFC6749]
). In this framework, this parameter is optional. See Section 5.8.1.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 62

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Encoding of scope parameter

In client-to-AS requests using OAuth 2.0, the scope parameter is string encoded (per
[RFC6749]
Section 5.8.1.

). In this framework, this parameter may also be encoded as a byte string. See

Cardinality of token_type parameter

In AS-to-client responses using OAuth 2.0, the token_type parameter is required (per
[RFC6749]
). In this framework, this parameter is optional. See Section 5.8.2.

Access token retention

In OAuth 2.0, the access token may be sent with every request to the RS. The exact use of
access tokens depends on the semantics of the application and the session management
concept it uses. In this framework, the RS must be able to store these tokens for later use. See
Section 5.10.1.

Appendix F.  Deployment Examples

There is a large variety of IoT deployments, as is indicated in Appendix A, and this section
highlights a few common variants. This section is not normative but illustrates how the
framework can be applied.

For each of the deployment variants, there are a number of possible security setups between
clients, resource servers, and authorization servers. The main focus in the following subsections
is on how authorization of a client request for a resource hosted by an RS is performed. This
requires the security of the requests and responses between the clients and the RS to be
considered.

Note: CBOR diagnostic notation is used for examples of requests and responses.

F.1.  Local Token Validation

In this scenario, the case where the resource server is offline is considered, i.e., it is not
connected to the AS at the time of the access request. This access procedure involves steps (A),
(B), (C), and (F) of Figure 1.

Since the resource server must be able to verify the access token locally, self-contained access
tokens must be used.

This example shows the interactions between a client, the authorization server, and a
temperature sensor acting as a resource server. Message exchanges A and B are shown in Figure
11.

A:

The client first generates a public-private key pair used for communication security with the
RS.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 63

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

The client sends a CoAP POST request to the token endpoint at the AS. The security of this
request can be transport or application layer. It is up the communication security profile to
define. In the example, it is assumed that both the client and AS have performed mutual
authentication, e.g., via DTLS. The request contains the public key of the client and the
audience parameter set to "tempSensorInLivingRoom", a value that the temperature sensor
identifies itself with. The AS evaluates the request and authorizes the client to access the
resource.

B:

The AS responds with a 2.05 (Content) response containing the Access Information, including
the access token. The PoP access token contains the public key of the client, and the Access
Information contains the public key of the RS. For communication security, this example uses
DTLS RawPublicKey between the client and the RS. The issued token will have a short
validity time, i.e., exp close to iat, in order to mitigate attacks using stolen client credentials.
The token includes claims, such as scope, with the authorized access that an owner of the
temperature device can enjoy. In this example, the scope claim issued by the AS informs the
RS that the owner of the token that can prove the possession of a key is authorized to make a
GET request against the /temperature resource and a POST request on the /firmware
resource. Note that the syntax and semantics of the scope claim are application specific.

Note: In this example, it is assumed that the client knows what resource it wants to access
and is therefore able to request specific audience and scope claims for the access token.

         Authorization
  Client    Server
    |         |
    |<=======>| DTLS Connection Establishment
    |         |   and mutual authentication
    |         |
A:  +-------->| Header: POST (Code=0.02)
    |  POST   | Uri-Path:"token"
    |         | Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
    |         | Payload: <Request-Payload>
    |         |
B:  |<--------+ Header: 2.05 Content
    |  2.05   | Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
    |         | Payload: <Response-Payload>
    |         |

Figure 11: Token Request and Response Using Client Credentials

The information contained in the Request-Payload and the Response-Payload is shown in Figure
12. Note that the parameter rs_cnf from
resource server's public key.

 is used to inform the client about the

[RFC9201]

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 64

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Request-Payload :
{
  / audience / 5 : "tempSensorInLivingRoom",
  / client_id / 24 : "myclient",
  / req_cnf / 4 : {
  / COSE_Key / 1 : {
      / kid / 2 : b64'1Bg8vub9tLe1gHMzV76e',
      / kty / 1 : 2 / EC2 /,
      / crv / -1 : 1 / P-256 /,
      / x / -2 : b64'f83OJ3D2xF1Bg8vub9tLe1gHMzV76e8Tus9uPHvRVEU',
      / y / -3 : b64'x_FEzRu9m36HLN_tue659LNpXW6pCyStikYjKIWI5a0'
    }
  }
}

Response-Payload :
{
  / access_token / 1 : b64'0INDoQEKoQVNKkXfb7xaWqMT'/ .../,
  / rs_cnf / 41 : {
    / COSE_Key / 1 : {
      / kid / 2 : b64'c29tZSBwdWJsaWMga2V5IGlk',
      / kty / 1 : 2 / EC2 /,
      / crv / -1 : 1 / P-256 /,
      / x / -2   : b64'MKBCTNIcKUSDii11ySs3526iDZ8AiTo7Tu6KPAqv7D4',
      / y / -3   : b64'4Etl6SRW2YiLUrN5vfvVHuhp7x8PxltmWWlbbM4IFyM'
    }
  }
}

Figure 12: Request and Response Payload Details

The content of the access token is shown in Figure 13.

{
  / aud / 3 : "tempSensorInLivingRoom",
  / iat / 6 : 1563451500,
  / exp / 4 : 1563453000,
  / scope / 9 :  "temperature_g firmware_p",
  / cnf / 8 : {
    / COSE_Key / 1 : {
      / kid / 2 : b64'1Bg8vub9tLe1gHMzV76e',
      / kty / 1 : 2 / EC2 /,
      / crv / -1 : 1 / P-256 /,
      / x / -2 : b64'f83OJ3D2xF1Bg8vub9tLe1gHMzV76e8Tus9uPHvRVEU',
      / y / -3 : b64'x_FEzRu9m36HLN_tue659LNpXW6pCyStikYjKIWI5a0'
    }
  }
}

Figure 13: Access Token Including Public Key of the Client

Messages C and F are shown in Figures 14 and 15.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 65

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

C:

The client then sends the PoP access token to the authz-info endpoint at the RS. This is a plain
CoAP POST request, i.e., no transport or application-layer security is used between the client
and RS since the token is integrity protected between the AS and RS. The RS verifies that the
PoP access token was created by a known and trusted AS, which it applies to this RS, and that
it is valid. The RS caches the security context together with authorization information about
this client contained in the PoP access token.

           Resource
 Client     Server
    |         |
C:  +-------->| Header: POST (Code=0.02)
    |  POST   | Uri-Path:"authz-info"
    |         | Payload: 0INDoQEKoQVN ...
    |         |
    |<--------+ Header: 2.04 Changed
    |  2.04   |
    |         |

Figure 14: Access Token Provisioning to the RS

The client and the RS runs the DTLS handshake using the raw public keys established in steps B
and C.

The client sends a CoAP GET request to /temperature on the RS over DTLS. The RS verifies that
the request is authorized based on previously established security context.

F:

The RS responds over the same DTLS channel with a CoAP 2.05 Content response containing
a resource representation as payload.

           Resource
 Client     Server
    |         |
    |<=======>| DTLS Connection Establishment
    |         |   using Raw Public Keys
    |         |
    +-------->| Header: GET (Code=0.01)
    | GET     | Uri-Path: "temperature"
    |         |
    |         |
    |         |
F:  |<--------+ Header: 2.05 Content
    | 2.05    | Payload: <sensor value>
    |         |

Figure 15: Resource Request and Response Protected by DTLS

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 66

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

F.2.  Introspection Aided Token Validation

In this deployment scenario, it is assumed that a client is not able to access the AS at the time of
the access request, whereas the RS is assumed to be connected to the back-end infrastructure.
Thus, the RS can make use of token introspection. This access procedure involves steps (A)-(F) of
Figure 1 but assumes steps (A) and (B) have been carried out during a phase when the client had
connectivity to the AS.

Since the client is assumed to be offline, at least for a certain period of time, a preprovisioned
access token has to be long lived. Since the client is constrained, the token will not be self-
contained (i.e., not a CWT) but instead just a reference. The resource server uses its connectivity
to learn about the claims associated to the access token by using introspection, which is shown in
the example below.

In the example, interactions between an offline client (key fob), an RS (online lock), and an AS is
shown. It is assumed that there is a provisioning step where the client has access to the AS. This
corresponds to message exchanges A and B, which are shown in Figure 16.

Authorization consent from the resource owner can be preconfigured, but it can also be
provided via an interactive flow with the resource owner. An example of this for the key fob case
could be that the resource owner has a connected car and buys a generic key to use with the car.
To authorize the key fob, the owner connects it to a computer that then provides the UI for the
device. After that, OAuth 2.0 implicit flow can be used to authorize the key for the car at the car
manufacturer's AS.

Note: In this example, the client does not know the exact door it will be used to access since the
token request is not sent at the time of access. So the scope and audience parameters are set
quite wide to start with, while tailored values narrowing down the claims to the specific RS being
accessed can be provided to that RS during an introspection step.

A:

The client sends a CoAP POST request to the token endpoint at the AS. The request contains
the audience parameter set to "PACS1337" (Physical Access System (PACS)), a value that
identifies the physical access control system to which the individual doors are connected.
The AS generates an access token as an opaque string, which it can match to the specific
client and the targeted audience. It furthermore generates a symmetric proof-of-possession
key. The communication security and authentication between the client and AS is assumed to
have been provided at the transport layer (e.g., via DTLS) using a pre-shared security context
(pre-shared key (PSK), RPK, or certificate).

B:

The AS responds with a CoAP 2.05 Content response, containing as payload the Access
Information, including the access token and the symmetric proof-of-possession key.
Communication security between the C and RS will be DTLS and PreSharedKey. The PoP key
is used as the PreSharedKey.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 67

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Note: In this example, we are using a symmetric key for a multi-RS audience, which is not
recommended normally (see Section 6.9). However, in this case, the risk is deemed to be
acceptable, since all the doors are part of the same physical access control system; therefore, the
risk of a malicious RS impersonating the client towards another RS is low.

         Authorization
 Client     Server
    |         |
    |<=======>| DTLS Connection Establishment
    |         |   and mutual authentication
    |         |
A:  +-------->| Header: POST (Code=0.02)
    |  POST   | Uri-Path:"token"
    |         | Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
    |         | Payload: <Request-Payload>
    |         |
B:  |<--------+ Header: 2.05 Content
    |         | Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
    |  2.05   | Payload: <Response-Payload>
    |         |

Figure 16: Token Request and Response Using Client Credentials

The information contained in the Request-Payload and the Response-Payload is shown in Figure
17.

Request-Payload:
{
  / client_id / 24 : "keyfob",
  / audience / 5   : "PACS1337"
}

Response-Payload:
{
  / access_token / 1 : b64'VGVzdCB0b2tlbg',
  / cnf / 8 : {
    / COSE_Key / 1 : {
      / kid / 2 : b64'c29tZSBwdWJsaWMga2V5IGlk',
      / kty / 1 : 4 / Symmetric /,
      / k / -1  : b64'ZoRSOrFzN_FzUA5XKMYoVHyzff5oRJxl-IXRtztJ6uE'
    }
  }
}

Figure 17: Request and Response Payload for the C Offline

In this case, the access token is just an opaque byte string referencing the authorization
information at the AS.

C:

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 68

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Next, the client POSTs the access token to the authz-info endpoint in the RS. This is a plain
CoAP request, i.e., no DTLS between the client and RS. Since the token is an opaque string,
the RS cannot verify it on its own, and thus defers to respond to the client with a status code
until after step E.

The RS sends the token to the introspection endpoint on the AS using a CoAP POST request.
In this example, the RS and AS are assumed to have performed mutual authentication using
a pre-shared security context (PSK, RPK, or certificate) with the RS acting as the DTLS client.

The AS provides the introspection response (2.05 Content) containing parameters about the
token. This includes the confirmation key (cnf) parameter that allows the RS to verify the
client's proof of possession in step F. Note that our example in Figure 19 assumes a
preestablished key (e.g., one used by the client and the RS for a previous token) that is now
only referenced by its key identifier kid.

D:

E:

After receiving message E, the RS responds to the client's POST in step C with the CoAP
response code 2.01 (Created).

           Resource
  Client    Server
    |         |
C:  +-------->| Header: POST (T=CON, Code=0.02)
    |  POST   | Uri-Path:"authz-info"
    |         | Payload: b64'VGVzdCB0b2tlbg'
    |         |
    |         |     Authorization
    |         |       Server
    |         |          |
    |      D: +--------->| Header: POST (Code=0.02)
    |         |  POST    | Uri-Path: "introspect"
    |         |          | Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
    |         |          | Payload: <Request-Payload>
    |         |          |
    |      E: |<---------+ Header: 2.05 Content
    |         |  2.05    | Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
    |         |          | Payload: <Response-Payload>
    |         |          |
    |         |
    |<--------+ Header: 2.01 Created
    |  2.01   |
    |         |

Figure 18: Token Introspection for the C Offline

The information contained in the Request-Payload and the Response-Payload is shown in Figure
19.

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 69

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Request-Payload:
{
  / token /     11 : b64'VGVzdCB0b2tlbg',
  / client_id / 24 : "FrontDoor"
}

Response-Payload:
{
  / active / 10 : true,
  / aud /     3 : "lockOfDoor4711",
  / scope /   9 : "open close",
  / iat /     6 : 1563454000,
  / cnf /     8 : {
         / kid / 3 : b64'c29tZSBwdWJsaWMga2V5IGlk'
  }
}

Figure 19: Request and Response Payload for Introspection

The client uses the symmetric PoP key to establish a DTLS PreSharedKey secure connection to the
RS. The CoAP request PUT is sent to the uri-path /state on the RS, changing the state of the door to
locked.

F:

The RS responds with an appropriate response over the secure DTLS channel.

           Resource
  Client    Server
    |         |
    |<=======>| DTLS Connection Establishment
    |         |   using Pre Shared Key
    |         |
    +-------->| Header: PUT (Code=0.03)
    | PUT     | Uri-Path: "state"
    |         | Payload: <new state for the lock>
    |         |
F:  |<--------+ Header: 2.04 Changed
    | 2.04    | Payload: <new state for the lock>
    |         |

Figure 20: Resource Request and Response Protected by OSCORE

Acknowledgments

This document is a product of the ACE Working Group of the IETF.

Eve Maler

Thanks to
(UMA) in IoT scenarios,
on the predecessors of this proposal.

Robert Taylor

 for her contributions to the use of OAuth 2.0 and Unlicensed Mobile Access

 for his discussion input, and

Mališa Vučinić

 for his input

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 70

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Thanks to the authors of "
Client Key Distribution"
copied.

[POP-KEY-DIST]

[POP-KEY-DIST]

OAuth 2.0 Proof-of-Possession: Authorization Server to
, from where parts of the security considerations where

Stefanie Gerdes Olaf Bergmann
,

, and
Thanks to
AS discovery from "Delegated CoAP Authentication and Authorization Framework (DCAF)"
[DCAF]

 (see Section 5.1) and the considerations on multiple access tokens.

Carsten Bormann

 for contributing their work on

Thanks to

Jim Schaad

 and

Mike Jones

 for their comprehensive reviews.

Thanks to

Benjamin Kaduk

 for his input on various questions related to this work.

Thanks to

Cigdem Sengul

 for some very useful review comments.

Thanks to

Carsten Bormann

 for contributing the text for the CoRE Resource Type registry.

Thanks to

Roman Danyliw

 for suggesting Appendix E (including its contents).

 and

Ludwig Seitz
CyberWI, with funding from Vinnova.
work by Vinnova in the context of the CelticNext project CRITISEC.

Göran Selander

Ludwig Seitz

 worked on this document as part of the CelticPlus project

 has also received further funding for this

Authors' Addresses

Ludwig Seitz
Combitech
Djäknegatan 31
SE-
Sweden
Email:

211 35 Malmö

 ludwig.seitz@combitech.com

Göran Selander
Ericsson
SE-
Sweden
Email:

164 80 Kista

 goran.selander@ericsson.com

Erik Wahlstroem
Sweden
Email:

 erik@wahlstromstekniska.se

Samuel Erdtman
Spotify AB
Birger Jarlsgatan 61, 4tr
SE-
113 56 Stockholm
Sweden
Email:

 erdtman@spotify.com

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 71

RFC 9200

ACE-OAuth

August 2022

Hannes Tschofenig
Arm Ltd.
6067 Absam
Austria
Email:

 Hannes.Tschofenig@arm.com

Seitz, et al.

Standards Track

Page 72

