Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9155
5246
Standards Track
December 2021
2070-1721
L. Velvindron
cyberstorm.mu

K. Moriarty
CIS

A. Ghedini
Cloudﬂare Inc.

RFC 9155
Deprecating MD5 and SHA-1 Signature Hashes in TLS
1.2 and DTLS 1.2

Abstract

The MD5 and SHA-1 hashing algorithms are increasingly vulnerable to attack, and this document
deprecates their use in TLS 1.2 and DTLS 1.2 digital signatures. However, this document does not
deprecate SHA-1 with Hashed Message Authentication Code (HMAC), as used in record protection.
This document updates RFC 5246.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9155
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Velvindron, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9155

Signature Hashes in (D)TLS 1.2

December 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Signature Algorithms

3.  Certiﬁcate Request

4.  Server Key Exchange

5.  Certiﬁcate Verify

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[NISTSP800-131A-R2]

 detailed the security considerations, including collision attacks for MD5. NIST formally

The usage of MD5 and SHA-1 for signature hashing in (D)TLS 1.2 is speciﬁed in
[Wang]
and SHA-1 have been proven to be insecure, subject to collision attacks
[RFC6151]
deprecated use of SHA-1 in 2011
at the end of 2013, based on both the attack described in
attack. In 2016, researchers from the National Institute for Research in Digital Science and
Technology (INRIA) identiﬁed a new class of transcript collision attacks on TLS (and other
protocols) that relies on eﬃcient collision-ﬁnding algorithms on the underlying hash
constructions
Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI) Amsterdam
practical. This document updates
[RFC5246]

[SHA-1-Collision]
 in such a way that MD5 and SHA-1

. Further, in 2017, researchers from Google and Centrum

 and disallowed its use for digital signatures
 and the potential for brute-force

 proved SHA-1 collision attacks were
 be used

[RFC5246]
. In 2011,

[Transcript-Collision]

MUST NOT

[Wang]

. MD5

Velvindron, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9155

Signature Hashes in (D)TLS 1.2

December 2021

for digital signatures. However, this document does not deprecate SHA-1 with HMAC, as used in
record protection. Note that the CA/Browser Forum (CABF) has also deprecated use of SHA-1 for
use in certiﬁcate signatures

[CABF]

.

1.1.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  Signature Algorithms

MUST

Clients
SHA-1 in this extension.

 include the signature_algorithms extension. Clients

MUST NOT

 include MD5 and

3.  Certiﬁcate Request

Servers

SHOULD NOT

 include MD5 and SHA-1 in CertiﬁcateRequest messages.

4.  Server Key Exchange

MUST NOT

Servers
a ServerKeyExchange message indicating MD5 or SHA-1, then it
an illegal_parameter alert.

 include MD5 and SHA-1 in ServerKeyExchange messages. If the client receives
 abort the connection with

MUST

5.  Certiﬁcate Verify

MUST NOT

Clients
CertiﬁcateVerify message with MD5 or SHA-1, it
illegal_parameter alert.

 include MD5 and SHA-1 in CertiﬁcateVerify messages. If a server receives a

MUST

 abort the connection with an

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has updated the "TLS SignatureScheme" registry by changing the recommended status of
SHA-1-based signature schemes to "N" (not recommended), as deﬁned by
entries have been updated; other entries in the registry remain the same.

[RFC8447]

. The following

Value

Description

Recommended

Reference

0x0201

rsa_pkcs1_sha1

0x0203

ecdsa_sha1

N

N

[RFC8446]

 [RFC9155]

[RFC8446]

 [RFC9155]

Table 1

Velvindron, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9155

Signature Hashes in (D)TLS 1.2

December 2021

IANA has also updated the reference for the "TLS SignatureAlgorithm" and "TLS HashAlgorithm"
registries to refer to this document in addition to RFCs 5246 and 8447.

7.  Security Considerations

Concerns with (D)TLS 1.2 implementations falling back to SHA-1 is an issue. This document
updates the TLS 1.2 speciﬁcation
signatures. However, this document does not deprecate SHA-1 with HMAC, as used in record
protection.

 to deprecate support for MD5 and SHA-1 for digital

[RFC5246]

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5246]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8447]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

 and
Dierks, T.
E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
,
,
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
.
info/rfc5246>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, August 2008,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

Salowey, J.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8447

,
S. Turner "IANA Registry Updates for TLS and DTLS" RFC 8447
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8447>

, August 2018,

 and

,

,

8.2.  Informative References

[CABF]

CA/Browser Forum "Ballot 118 -- SHA-1 Sunset (passed)"
cabforum.org/2014/10/16/ballot-118-sha-1-sunset/>
.

,

, October 2014,

<https://

[NISTSP800-131A-R2]

Barker, E.

 and

A. Roginsky "Transitioning the Use of Cryptographic

,

Algorithms and Key Lengths" NIST Special Publication 800-131A, Revision 2 DOI
10.6028/NIST.SP.800-131Ar2
SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-131Ar2.pdf>
.

<https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/

, March 2019,

,

,

[RFC6151]

 and

Turner, S.
Digest and the HMAC-MD5 Algorithms" RFC 6151 DOI 10.17487/RFC6151
2011,

L. Chen "Updated Security Considerations for the MD5 Message-
, March

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6151>
.

,

,

,

[SHA-1-Collision]

,
Stevens, M. Bursztein, E. Karpman, P. Albertini, A.
, 2017,

Collision for Full SHA-1"

.
<https://eprint.iacr.org/2017/190>

, and

,

,

,
Y. Markov "The First

Velvindron, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9155

Signature Hashes in (D)TLS 1.2

December 2021

[Transcript-Collision]

Bhargavan, K.

 and

G. Leurent "Transcript Collision Attacks: Breaking

,

Authentication in TLS, IKE, and SSH" DOI 10.14722/ndss.2016.23418
2016,

<https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01244855/document>
.

,

, February

[Wang]

H. Yu "Finding Collisions in the Full SHA-1" DOI

,

, and

,
Wang, X. Yin, Y.
10.1007/11535218_2
.
crypto2005/36210017/36210017.pdf>

, 2005,

,

<https://www.iacr.org/archive/

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
document. We are also grateful to
David Cooper
Wood

, and

 for their feedback.

Hubert Kario

 for his help in writing the initial draft version of this

Daniel Migault Martin Thomson Sean Turner Christopher

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Loganaden Velvindron
cyberstorm.mu
Rose Hill
Mauritius
Phone:
Email:

 +230 59762817
 logan@cyberstorm.mu

Kathleen Moriarty
Center for Internet Security
East Greenbush NY
United States of America
Email:

,

 Kathleen.Moriarty.ietf@gmail.com

Alessandro Ghedini
Cloudﬂare Inc.
Email:

 alessandro@cloudﬂare.com

Velvindron, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

