Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9072
4271
Standards Track
July 2021
2070-1721
E. Chen
Palo Alto Networks

J. Scudder
Juniper Networks

RFC 9072
Extended Optional Parameters Length for BGP OPEN
Message

Abstract

The Optional Parameters in the BGP OPEN message as deﬁned in the base BGP speciﬁcation are
limited to 255 octets due to a one-octet length ﬁeld. BGP capabilities are carried in this ﬁeld and
may foreseeably exceed 255 octets in the future, leading to concerns about this limitation.

This document updates RFC 4271 by extending, in a backward-compatible manner, the length of
the Optional Parameters in a BGP OPEN message. The Parameter Length ﬁeld of individual
Optional Parameters is also extended.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9072

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Chen & Scudder

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9072

Extended Optional Parameters Length

July 2021

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Update to RFC 4271

3.  Backward Compatibility

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The Optional Parameters Length ﬁeld in the BGP OPEN message is deﬁned in
speciﬁcation [RFC4271]
message to 255 octets. Since BGP capabilities
ﬁeld, and new BGP capabilities continue to be introduced, the limitation is a concern for BGP
development.

 as one octet, thus limiting the Optional Parameters ﬁeld in the OPEN

 are carried in the Optional Parameters

the base BGP

[RFC5492]

[RFC4271]

This document updates
 by extending the length of the Optional Parameters in BGP
OPEN in a backward-compatible manner. This is done by using Optional Parameter type code
255 as a distinguished value, which indicates an extended Optional Parameters Length ﬁeld
follows and that the parsing of the BGP OPEN should be modiﬁed according to these procedures.
In this case, the Parameter Length ﬁeld of the individual Optional Parameters in the BGP OPEN
message is also extended.

Chen & Scudder

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9072

Extended Optional Parameters Length

July 2021

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Update to RFC 4271

This document reserves Optional Parameter type code 255 as the "Extended Length".

In the event that the length of the Optional Parameters in the BGP OPEN message does not
exceed 255, the encodings of
alteration. Conﬁguration
MAY
this might be used, for example, to test that a peer supports this speciﬁcation. (In any case, an
implementation
if the length of the Optional Parameters is 255 or less.)

the base BGP speciﬁcation [RFC4271] SHOULD
 override this to force the extended format to be used in all cases;

 accept an OPEN message that uses the encoding of this speciﬁcation even

 be used without

MUST

However, if the length of the Optional Parameters in the BGP OPEN message does exceed 255, the
OPEN message

 be encoded according to the procedure below.

MUST

        0                   1                   2                   3
        0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |    Version    |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |     My Autonomous System      |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |           Hold Time           |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |                         BGP Identifier                        |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |Non-Ext OP Len.|Non-Ext OP Type|  Extended Opt. Parm. Length   |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |                                                               |
       |             Optional Parameters (variable)                    |
       |                                                               |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Extended Encoding OPEN Format

The Non-Extended Optional Parameters Length ﬁeld (Non-Ext OP Len.)
transmission and, in any event,
of the extended format is determined positively by inspection of the Non-Extended Optional
Parameters Type (Non-Ext OP Type) ﬁeld.

 be set to 255 on
 be ignored on receipt once the use

 be set to 0; it

MUST NOT

SHOULD

MUST

Chen & Scudder

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9072

Extended Optional Parameters Length

July 2021

The subsequent one-octet ﬁeld (which would be the ﬁrst Optional Parameter Type ﬁeld in the
non-extended format and is called "Non-Ext OP Type" in the ﬁgure above)
 be set to 255 on
transmission. On receipt, a value of 255 for this ﬁeld is the indication that the extended format is
in use.

MUST

In this extended encoding, the subsequent two-octet ﬁeld, termed the "Extended Optional
Parameters Length ﬁeld", is an unsigned integer indicating the total length of the Optional
Parameters ﬁeld in octets. If the value of this ﬁeld is zero, no Optional Parameters are present.

Likewise, in that situation, the Optional Parameters encoding is modiﬁed to be the following:

     0                   1                   2
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |  Parm. Type   |        Parameter Length       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    ~            Parameter Value (variable)         ~
    |                                               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Extended Parameters Format

The rules for encoding Optional Parameters are unchanged with respect to those given in
[RFC4271]

, except that the Parameter Length ﬁeld is extended to be a two-octet unsigned integer.

In parsing an OPEN message, if the one-octet Optional Parameters Length ﬁeld (labeled "Non-Ext
OP Len." in Figure 1) is non-zero, a BGP speaker
one-octet Optional Parameters Length ﬁeld (labeled "Non-Ext OP Type" in Figure 1) to determine
both the encoding of the Optional Parameters length and the size of the Parameter Length ﬁeld of
individual Optional Parameters. If the value of the "Non-Ext OP Type" ﬁeld is 255, then the
encoding described above is used for the Optional Parameters length. Otherwise, the encoding
deﬁned in

 use the value of the octet following the

[RFC4271]

 is used.

MUST

3.  Backward Compatibility

If a BGP speaker supporting this speciﬁcation (a "new speaker") is peering with one that does not
(an "old speaker"), no interoperability issues arise unless the new speaker needs to encode
Optional Parameters whose length exceeds 255. In that case, it will transmit an OPEN message
that the old speaker will interpret as containing an Optional Parameter with type code 255. Since
the old speaker will not recognize that type code by deﬁnition, the old speaker is expected to
close the connection with a NOTIFICATION with an error code of "OPEN Message Error" and an
error subcode of "Unsupported Optional Parameters", according to

Section 6.2 of [RFC4271]

.

Chen & Scudder

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9072

Extended Optional Parameters Length

July 2021

Although the Optional Parameter type code 255 is used in this speciﬁcation as the indication that
the extended encoding is in use, it is not a bona ﬁde Optional Parameter type code in the usual
sense and
MUST NOT
Non-Ext OP Type, it
according to

 be used other than as described above. If encountered other than as the
 be treated as an unrecognized Optional Parameter and handled
MUST

.
[RFC4271], Section 6.2

It is not considered an error to receive an OPEN message whose Extended Optional Parameters
Length value is less than or equal to 255. It is not considered a fatal error to receive an OPEN
message whose (non-extended) Optional Parameters Length value is not 255 and whose ﬁrst
Optional Parameter type code is 255 -- in this case, the encoding of this speciﬁcation
 be
used for decoding the message.

MUST

4.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned value 255 as the Extended Length type code in the "BGP OPEN Optional
Parameter Types" registry.

5.  Security Considerations

This extension to BGP does not change the underlying security or conﬁdentiality issues inherent
in the existing BGP

[RFC4272]

.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4271]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

6.2.  Informative References

[RFC4272]

[RFC5492]

Murphy, S. "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis" RFC 4272 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4272

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>

, January 2006,

,

,

,

.

 and

Scudder, J.
DOI 10.17487/RFC5492
rfc5492>

.

R. Chandra "Capabilities Advertisement with BGP-4" RFC 5492

,

,

,

, February 2009,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Chen & Scudder

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9072

Extended Optional Parameters Length

July 2021

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank
to enlarge the Optional Parameters ﬁeld. We would also like to thank
Decraene John Heasley Jakob Heitz Christer Holmberg Pradosh Mohapatra Keyur Patel
Hannes Gredler

 for discussing various options
Matthew Bocci Bruno

 for their valuable comments.

Yakov Rekhter

Srihari Sangli

, and

 and

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Enke Chen
Palo Alto Networks
Email:

 enchen@paloaltonetworks.com

John Scudder
Juniper Networks
Email:

 jgs@juniper.net

Chen & Scudder

Standards Track

Page 6

