Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9350
Standards Track
February 2023
2070-1721
P. Psenak,
Cisco Systems, Inc.

S. Hegde
Juniper Networks, Inc.

 Ed.

C. Filsfils
Cisco Systems, Inc.

K. Talaulikar
Cisco Systems, Inc

A. Gulko
Edward Jones

RFC 9350
IGP Flexible Algorithm

Abstract

IGP protocols historically compute the best paths over the network based on the IGP metric
assigned to the links. Many network deployments use RSVP-TE or Segment Routing - Traffic
Engineering (SR-TE) to steer traffic over a path that is computed using different metrics or
constraints than the shortest IGP path. This document specifies a solution that allows IGPs
themselves to compute constraint-based paths over the network. This document also specifies a
way of using Segment Routing (SR) Prefix-SIDs and SRv6 locators to steer packets along the
constraint-based paths.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9350
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Terminology

4.  Flexible Algorithm

5.  Flexible Algorithm Definition Advertisement

5.1.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV

5.2.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Definition TLV

5.3.  Common Handling of the Flexible Algorithm Definition TLV

6.  Sub-TLVs of IS-IS FAD Sub-TLV

6.1.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Exclude Admin Group Sub-TLV

6.2.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group Sub-TLV

6.3.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group Sub-TLV

6.4.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags Sub-TLV

6.5.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Exclude SRLG Sub-TLV

7.  Sub-TLVs of the OSPF FAD TLV

7.1.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Exclude Admin Group Sub-TLV

7.2.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group Sub-TLV

7.3.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group Sub-TLV

7.4.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags Sub-TLV

7.5.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Exclude SRLG Sub-TLV

8.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric Sub-TLV

9.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric Sub-TLV

10. OSPF Flexible Algorithm ASBR Reachability Advertisement

10.1.  OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR LSA

10.1.1.  OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR TLV

10.2.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm ASBR Metric Sub-TLV

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

11. Advertisement of Node Participation in a Flex-Algorithm

11.1.  Advertisement of Node Participation for Segment Routing

11.2.  Advertisement of Node Participation for Other Data Planes

12. Advertisement of Link Attributes for Flex-Algorithm

13. Calculation of Flexible Algorithm Paths

13.1.  Multi-area and Multi-domain Considerations

14. Flex-Algorithm and Forwarding Plane

14.1.  Segment Routing MPLS Forwarding for Flex-Algorithm

14.2.  SRv6 Forwarding for Flex-Algorithm

14.3.  Other Data Planes' Forwarding for Flex-Algorithm

15. Operational Considerations

15.1.  Inter-area Considerations

15.2.  Usage of the SRLG Exclude Rule with Flex-Algorithm

15.3.  Max-Metric Consideration

15.4.  Flexible Algorithm Definition and Changes

15.5.  Number of Flex-Algorithms

16. Backward Compatibility

17. Security Considerations

18. IANA Considerations

18.1.  IGP IANA Considerations

18.1.1.  IGP Algorithm Types Registry

18.1.2.  IGP Metric-Type Registry

18.2.  IGP Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags Registry

18.3.  IS-IS IANA Considerations

18.3.1.  IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV Registry

18.3.2.  IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability Registry

18.3.3.  IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV Registry

18.4.  OSPF IANA Considerations

18.4.1.  OSPF Router Information (RI) TLVs Registry

18.4.2.  OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV Sub-TLVs Registry

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

18.4.3.  OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs Registry

18.4.4.  OSPF Flex-Algorithm Prefix Metric Bits Registry

18.4.5.  Opaque Link-State Advertisements (LSA) Option Types Registry

18.4.6.  OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR TLVs Registry

18.4.7.  OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR Sub-TLVs Registry

18.4.8.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Definition TLV Sub-TLVs Registry

18.4.9.  Link Attribute Application Identifiers Registry

19. References

19.1.  Normative References

19.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

An IGP-computed path based on the shortest IGP metric is often replaced by a traffic-engineered
path due to requirements that are not reflected by the IGP metric. Some networks engineer the
IGP metric assignments in a way that the IGP metric reflects the link bandwidth or delay. If, for
example, the IGP metric reflects the bandwidth on the link and user traffic is delay sensitive, the
best IGP path may not reflect the best path from such a user's perspective.

To overcome this limitation, various sorts of Traffic Engineering have been deployed, including
RSVP-TE and SR-TE, in which case the TE component is responsible for computing paths based on
additional metrics and/or constraints. Such paths need to be installed in the forwarding tables in
addition to, or as a replacement for, the original paths computed by IGPs. Tunnels are often used
, and are
to represent the engineered paths and mechanisms, like the one described in
used to replace the original IGP paths with such tunnel paths.

[RFC3906]

This document specifies a set of extensions to IS-IS, OSPFv2, and OSPFv3 that enable a router to
advertise TLVs that (a) identify a calculation-type, (b) specify a metric-type, and (c) describe a set
of constraints on the topology that are to be used to compute the best paths along the constrained
topology. A given combination of calculation-type, metric-type, and constraints is known as a
"Flexible Algorithm Definition". A router that sends such a set of TLVs also assigns a Flex-
Algorithm value to the specified combination of calculation-type, metric-type, and constraints.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

This document also specifies a way for a router to use IGPs to associate one or more Segment
[RFC8660]
Routing with the MPLS Data Plane (SR-MPLS) Prefix-SIDs
 or Segment Routing over
 with a particular Flex-Algorithm. Each such Prefix-SID or SRv6
IPv6 (SRv6) locators
locator then represents a path that is computed according to the identified Flex-Algorithm. In
SRv6, it is the locator, not the Segment Identifier (SID), that holds the binding to the algorithm.

[RFC8986]

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Terminology

This section defines terms that are often used in this document.

Flexible Algorithm Definition (FAD):
type, and (c) a set of constraints.

the set consisting of (a) a calculation-type, (b) a metric-

Flex-Algorithm:

a numeric identifier in the range 128-255 that is associated via configuration

with the Flexible Algorithm Definition.

Flexible Algorithm Participation:

per the data plane configuration state that expresses whether
the node is participating in a particular Flexible Algorithm. Not all routers in a given network
need to participate in a given Flexible Algorithm. The Flexible Algorithm(s) that a given router
participates in is determined by configuration.

IGP Algorithm:

value from the IANA "IGP Algorithm Types" registry defined under the "Interior

Gateway Protocol (IGP) Parameters" registry group. IGP Algorithms represent the triplet
(calculation-type, metric-type, and constraints), where the second and third elements of the
triplet

 be unspecified.

MAY

ABR:

Area Border Router. In IS-IS terminology, it is also known as the Level 1 (L1) / Level 2 (L2)

router.

ASBR:

Autonomous System Border Router.

4.  Flexible Algorithm

Many possible constraints may be used to compute a path over a network. Some networks are
deployed as multiple planes. A simple form of constraint may be to use a particular plane. A
more sophisticated form of constraint can include some extended metric, as described in
[RFC8570]
specific affinities are also possible. Combinations of these are also possible.

. Constraints that restrict paths to links with specific affinities or avoid links with

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

To provide maximum flexibility, a mechanism is provided that allows a router to identify a
particular calculation-type and metric-type, describe a particular set of constraints, and assign a
numeric identifier, referred to as Flex-Algorithm, to the combination of that calculation-type,
metric-type, and those constraints. The mapping between the Flex-Algorithm and its meaning is
flexible and defined by the user. As long as all routers in the domain have a common
understanding as to what a particular Flex-Algorithm represents, the resulting routing
computation is consistent and traffic is not subject to any looping.

The set consisting of (a) a calculation-type, (b) a metric-type, and (c) a set of constraints is
referred to as a Flexible Algorithm Definition.

The Flex-Algorithm is a numeric identifier in the range 128-255 that is associated via
configuration with the Flexible Algorithm Definition.

The IANA "IGP Algorithm Types" registry defines the set of values for IGP Algorithms. The
following values are allocated by IANA from this registry for Flex-Algorithms:

128-255 - Flex-Algorithms

5.  Flexible Algorithm Definition Advertisement

To guarantee loop-free forwarding for paths computed for a particular Flex-Algorithm, all
routers that (a) are configured to participate in a particular Flex-Algorithm and (b) are in the
same Flex-Algorithm Definition advertisement scope
Algorithm. The following procedures ensure this condition is fulfilled.

 agree on the definition of the Flex-

MUST

5.1.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Definition (FAD) sub-TLV is used to advertise the definition of the
Flex-Algorithm.

The IS-IS FAD sub-TLV is advertised as a sub-TLV of the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV-242, which
is defined in

[RFC7981]
.

The IS-IS FAD sub-TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      Type     |    Length     |Flex-Algorithm |  Metric-Type  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Calc-Type   |    Priority   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          Sub-TLVs                             |
+                                                               +
|                            ...                                |

|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

where:

Type:

26

Length:

variable number of octets, dependent on the included sub-TLVs.

Flex-Algorithm:
inclusive.

Flexible Algorithm number. Single octet value between 128 and 255

Metric-Type:

type of metric from the IANA "IGP Metric-Type" registry (Section 18.1.2) to be

used during the calculation. The following values are defined:

0:

1:

2:

IGP Metric

Min Unidirectional Link Delay, as defined in
application-specific link attribute, as specified in
document.

Section 4.2 of [RFC8570]

, encoded as an

[RFC8919]

 and Section 12 of this

Traffic Engineering Default Metric, as defined in
an application-specific link attribute, as specified in
document.

Section 3.7 of [RFC5305]

, encoded as

[RFC8919]

 and Section 12 of this

Calc-Type:

calculation-type. Value from 0-127 inclusive from the IANA "IGP Algorithm Types"

registry defined under the "Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) Parameters" registry. IGP
Algorithms in the range of 0-127 have a defined triplet (calculation-type, metric-type,
constraints). When used to specify the calculation-type in the FAD sub-TLV, only the
calculation-type defined for the specified IGP Algorithm is used. The Metric/Constraints
MUST NOT

 be inherited. If the required calculation-type is Shortest Path First, the value 0

MUST

 appear in this field.

Priority:

value between 0 and 255 inclusive that specifies the priority of the advertisement.

Numerically greater values are preferred. Usage of the priority is described in Section 5.3.

Sub-TLVs:

optional sub-TLVs.

The IS-IS FAD sub-TLV
router
Section 6).

MAY

MAY

 be advertised in a Label Switched Path (LSP) of any number. The IS-IS

 advertise more than one IS-IS FAD sub-TLV for a given Flexible Algorithm (see

The IS-IS FAD sub-TLV has an area/level scope. The Router Capability TLV in which the FAD sub-
TLV is present

 have the S bit clear.

MUST

MAY

 be configured to regenerate the winning FAD from level 2, without any

An IS-IS L1/L2 router
modification to it, to the level 1 area. The regeneration of the FAD sub-TLV from level 2 to level 1
is determined by the L1/L2 router, not by the originator of the FAD advertisement in level 2. In
such a case, the regenerated FAD sub-TLV will be advertised in the level 1 Router Capability TLV
originated by the L1/L2 router.

An L1/L2 router

MUST NOT

 regenerate any FAD sub-TLV from level 1 to level 2.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

5.2.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Definition TLV

The OSPF FAD TLV is advertised as a top-level TLV of the Router Information (RI) Link State
[RFC7770]
.
Advertisement (LSA), which is defined in

The OSPF FAD TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Flex-Algorithm |   Metric-Type |   Calc-Type   |    Priority   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            Sub-TLVs                           |
+                                                               +
|                               ...                             |

|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

16

Length:

variable number of octets, dependent on the included sub-TLVs.

Flex-Algorithm:
inclusive.

Flexible Algorithm number. Single octet value between 128 and 255

Metric-Type:

type of metric from the IANA "IGP Metric-Type" registry (Section 18.1.2) to be

used during the calculation. The following values are defined:

0:

1:

2:

IGP Metric

Min Unidirectional Link Delay, as defined in
application-specific link attribute, as specified in
document.

Section 4.2 of [RFC7471]

, encoded as an

[RFC8920]

 and Section 12 of this

Traffic Engineering Metric, as defined in
application-specific link attribute, as specified in
document.

Section 2.5.5 of [RFC3630]
[RFC8920]

, encoded as an

 and Section 12 of this

Calc-Type:

as described in Section 5.1.

Priority:

as described in Section 5.1.

Sub-TLVs:

optional sub-TLVs.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

MUST

When multiple OSPF FAD TLVs, for the same Flexible Algorithm, are received from a given
router, the receiver
 use the first occurrence of the TLV in the RI LSA. If the OSPF FAD TLV,
for the same Flex-Algorithm, appears in multiple RI LSAs that have different flooding scopes, the
OSPF FAD TLV in the RI LSA with the area-scoped flooding scope
 be used. If the OSPF FAD
TLV, for the same algorithm, appears in multiple RI LSAs that have the same flooding scope, the
OSPF FAD TLV in the RI LSA with the numerically smallest Instance ID
subsequent instances of the OSPF FAD TLV

 be used and

 be ignored.

MUST

MUST

MUST

The RI LSA can be advertised at any of the defined opaque flooding scopes (link, area, or
Autonomous System (AS)). For the purpose of OSPF FAD TLV advertisement, area-scoped flooding
is
 be used unless local configuration policy on the
originating router indicates domain-wide flooding.

. The AS flooding scope

SHOULD NOT

REQUIRED

5.3.  Common Handling of the Flexible Algorithm Definition TLV

This section describes the protocol-independent handling of the FAD TLV (OSPF) or FAD sub-TLV
(IS-IS). We will refer to it as FAD TLV in this section, even though, in the case of IS-IS, it is a sub-
TLV.

The value of the Flex-Algorithm
MUST

 be ignored.

MUST

 be between 128 and 255 inclusive. If it is not, the FAD TLV

Only a subset of the routers participating in the particular Flex-Algorithm need to advertise the
definition of the Flex-Algorithm.

Every router that is configured to participate in a particular Flex-Algorithm
Algorithm Definition based on the following ordered rules. This allows for the consistent Flex-
Algorithm Definition selection in cases where different routers advertise different definitions for
a given Flex-Algorithm:

 select the Flex-

MUST

1.

From the advertisements of the FAD in the area (including both locally generated
advertisements and received advertisements), select the one(s) with the numerically greatest
priority value.

2.

If there are multiple advertisements of the FAD with the same numerically greatest priority,
select the one that is originated from the router with the numerically greatest System-ID, in
the case of IS-IS, or Router ID, in the case of OSPFv2 and OSPFv3. For IS-IS, the System-ID is
described in
[RFC2328]

. For OSPFv2 and OSPFv3, the standard Router ID is described in

, respectively.

[ISO10589]

[RFC5340]

 and

The FAD selected according to these rules is also known as the "winning FAD".

A router that is not configured to participate in a particular Flex-Algorithm
sub-TLV advertisements for such Flex-Algorithm.

MUST

 ignore FAD

A router that is not participating in a particular Flex-Algorithm
Flex-Algorithm. Receiving routers
Flex-Algorithm participation of that FAD advertisement's originator.

MUST

MAY

 consider a received FAD advertisement regardless of the

 advertise the FAD for such

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

Any change in the Flex-Algorithm Definition may result in a temporary disruption of traffic that
is forwarded based on such Flex-Algorithm paths. The impact is similar to any other event that
requires network-wide convergence.

If a node is configured to participate in a particular Flexible Algorithm, but there is no valid Flex-
Algorithm Definition available for it or the selected Flex-Algorithm Definition includes
calculation-type, metric-type, constraint, flag, or sub-TLV that is not supported by the node, it
MUST
participation for such Flexible Algorithm, as specified in Section 11, and it
forwarding state associated with it.

 stop participating in such Flexible Algorithm. That implies that it

 announce
 remove any

MUST NOT

MUST

The Flex-Algorithm Definition is topology independent. It applies to all topologies that a router
participates in.

6.  Sub-TLVs of IS-IS FAD Sub-TLV

[ISO10589]

One of the limitations of IS-IS
 is that the length of a TLV/sub-TLV is limited to a
maximum of 255 octets. For the FAD sub-TLV, there are a number of sub-sub-TLVs (defined
below) that are supported. For a given Flex-Algorithm, it is possible that the total number of
octets required to completely define a FAD exceeds the maximum length supported by a single
FAD sub-TLV. In such cases, the FAD
the multiple FAD sub-TLVs are combined to provide a complete FAD for the Flex-Algorithm. In
 be identical in all FAD sub-TLVs
such a case, the fixed portion of the FAD (see Section 5.1)
for a given Flex-Algorithm from a given IS. In case the fixed portion of such FAD sub-TLVs differ,
the values in the fixed portion in the FAD sub-TLV in the first occurrence in the lowest-numbered
LSP from a given IS

 be split into multiple such sub-TLVs, and the content of

 be used.

MUST

MUST

MAY

Any specification that introduces a new IS-IS FAD sub-sub-TLV
sub-TLV may appear multiple times in the set of FAD sub-TLVs for a given Flex-Algorithm from a
given IS and how to handle them if multiple are allowed.

 specify whether the FAD

MUST

6.1.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Exclude Admin Group Sub-TLV

The Flexible Algorithm Definition can specify "colors" that are used by the operator to exclude
links during the Flex-Algorithm path computation.

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Exclude Admin Group (FAEAG) sub-TLV is used to advertise the
exclude rule that is used during the Flex-Algorithm path calculation, as specified in Section 13.

The IS-IS FAEAG sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV. It has the following format:

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      Type     |    Length     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Extended Admin Group                     |
+-                                                             -+
|                            ...                                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

1

Length:

variable, dependent on the size of the Extended Admin Group.

MUST

 be a multiple of

4 octets.

Extended Administrative Group:

Extended Administrative Group, as defined in

[RFC7308]

.

The IS-IS FAEAG sub-TLV
appears more than once, the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV

MUST NOT

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

 appear more than once in a single IS-IS FAD sub-TLV. If it

MUST NOT

The IS-IS FAEAG sub-TLV
Flex-Algorithm from a given IS. If it appears more than once in such a set, the IS-IS FAEAG sub-
TLV in the first occurrence in the lowest-numbered LSP from a given IS
 be used, and any
other occurrences

 appear more than once in the set of FAD sub-TLVs for a given

 be ignored.

MUST

MUST

6.2.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group Sub-TLV

The Flexible Algorithm Definition can specify "colors" that are used by the operator to include
links during the Flex-Algorithm path computation.

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group sub-TLV is used to advertise the include-
any rule that is used during the Flex-Algorithm path calculation, as specified in Section 13.

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the IS-IS FAD sub-
TLV. It has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      Type     |    Length     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Extended Admin Group                     |
+-                                                             -+
|                            ...                                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

Type:

2

Length:

variable, dependent on the size of the Extended Admin Group.

MUST

 be a multiple of

4 octets.

Extended Administrative Group:

Extended Administrative Group, as defined in

[RFC7308]

.

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group sub-TLV
once in a single IS-IS FAD sub-TLV. If it appears more than once, the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV
ignored by the receiver.

MUST NOT

 appear more than

MUST

 be

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group sub-TLV
 appear more than
once in the set of FAD sub-TLVs for a given Flex-Algorithm from a given IS. If it appears more
than once in such a set, the IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group sub-TLV in the
first occurrence in the lowest-numbered LSP from a given IS
occurrences

 be used, and any other

 be ignored.

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

6.3.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group Sub-TLV

The Flexible Algorithm Definition can specify "colors" that are used by the operator to include
links during the Flex-Algorithm path computation.

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group sub-TLV is used to advertise the include-all
rule that is used during the Flex-Algorithm path calculation, as specified in Section 13.

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the IS-IS FAD sub-
TLV. It has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      Type     |    Length     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Extended Admin Group                     |
+-                                                             -+
|                            ...                                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

3

Length:

variable, dependent on the size of the Extended Admin Group.

MUST

 be a multiple of

4 octets.

Extended Administrative Group:

Extended Administrative Group, as defined in

[RFC7308]

.

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group sub-TLV
in a single IS-IS FAD sub-TLV. If it appears more than once, the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV
ignored by the receiver.

MUST NOT

MUST

 be

 appear more than once

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group sub-TLV
in the set of FAD sub-TLVs for a given Flex-Algorithm from a given IS. If it appears more than
once in such a set, the IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group sub-TLV in the first
occurrence in the lowest-numbered LSP from a given IS
occurrences

 be used, and any other

 be ignored.

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

 appear more than once

6.4.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags Sub-TLV

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags (FADF) sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the IS-IS FAD sub-
TLV. It has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      Type     |    Length     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             Flags                             |
+-                                                             -+
|                            ...                                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

4

Length:

variable, number of octets of the Flags field.

Flags:

              0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7...
             +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+...
             |M| | |          ...
             +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+...

M-flag:

when set, the Flex-Algorithm-specific prefix metric

MUST

 be used for inter-area

and external prefix calculation. This flag is not applicable to prefixes advertised as SRv6
locators.

A new IANA "IGP Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags" registry is defined for allocation of bits in
the Flags field -- see Section 18.2.

Bits are defined/sent starting with bit 0 defined above. Additional bit definitions that may be
defined in the future
that will need to be transmitted.

 be assigned in ascending bit order to minimize the number of bits

SHOULD

Undefined bits

MUST

 be transmitted as 0.

Bits that are not transmitted

MUST

 be treated as if they are set to 0 on receipt.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

The IS-IS FADF sub-TLV
appears more than once, the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV

MUST NOT

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

 appear more than once in a single IS-IS FAD sub-TLV. If it

MUST NOT

The IS-IS FADF sub-TLV
Flex-Algorithm from a given IS. If it appears more than once in such a set, the IS-IS FADF sub-TLV
in the first occurrence in the lowest-numbered LSP from a given IS
 be used, and any other
occurrences

 appear more than once in the set of FAD sub-TLVs for a given

 be ignored.

MUST

MUST

If the IS-IS FADF sub-TLV is not present inside the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV, all the bits are assumed to
be set to 0.

If a node is configured to participate in a particular Flexible Algorithm, but the selected Flex-
Algorithm Definition includes a bit in the IS-IS FADF sub-TLV that is not supported by the node, it
MUST

 stop participating in such Flexible Algorithm.

New flag bits may be defined in the future. Implementations
in the received IS-IS FADF sub-TLV -- not just the subset currently defined.

MUST

 check all advertised flag bits

The M-flag

MUST

 not be used when calculating prefix reachability for the SRv6 Locator prefix.

6.5.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Exclude SRLG Sub-TLV

The Flexible Algorithm Definition can specify Shared Risk Link Groups (SRLGs) that the operator
wants to exclude during the Flex-Algorithm path computation.

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Exclude SRLG (FAESRLG) sub-TLV is used to advertise the exclude
rule that is used during the Flex-Algorithm path calculation, as specified in Section 13.

The IS-IS FAESRLG sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV. It has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      Type     |    Length     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Shared Risk Link Group Value             |
+-                                                             -+
|                            ...                                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

5

Length:

variable, dependent on number of SRLG values.

MUST

 be a multiple of 4 octets.

Shared Risk Link Group Value:

SRLG value, as defined in

[RFC5307]

.

The IS-IS FAESRLG sub-TLV
appears more than once, the IS-IS FAD sub-TLV

 appear more than once in a single IS-IS FAD sub-TLV. If it
 be ignored by the receiver.

MUST NOT

MUST

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

MAY

 appear more than once in the set of FAD sub-TLVs for a given

The IS-IS FAESRLG sub-TLV
Flex-Algorithm from a given IS. This may be necessary in cases where the total number of SRLG
values that are specified cause the FAD sub-TLV to exceed the maximum length of a single FAD
sub-TLV. In such a case, the receiver
 use the union of all values across all IS-IS FAESRLG
sub-TLVs from such set.

MUST

7.  Sub-TLVs of the OSPF FAD TLV

7.1.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Exclude Admin Group Sub-TLV

The OSPF Flexible Algorithm Exclude Admin Group (FAEAG) sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the OSPF
FAD TLV. Its usage is described in Section 6.1. It has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Extended Admin Group                     |
+-                                                             -+
|                            ...                                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

1

Length:

variable, dependent on the size of the Extended Admin Group.

MUST

 be a multiple of

4 octets.

Extended Administrative Group:

Extended Administrative Group, as defined in

[RFC7308]

.

The OSPF FAEAG sub-TLV
MUST NOT
more than once, the OSPF FAD TLV

 appear more than once in an OSPF FAD TLV. If it appears
MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

7.2.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group Sub-TLV

The OSPF Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the OSPF FAD
TLV. The usage of this sub-TLV is described in Section 6.2. It has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Extended Admin Group                     |
+-                                                             -+
|                            ...                                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

where:

Type:

2

Length:

variable, dependent on the size of the Extended Admin Group.

MUST

 be a multiple of

4 octets.

Extended Administrative Group:

Extended Administrative Group, as defined in

[RFC7308]

.

The OSPF Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group sub-TLV
MUST NOT
once in an OSPF FAD TLV. If it appears more than once, the OSPF FAD TLV
the receiver.

 appear more than
 be ignored by
MUST

7.3.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group Sub-TLV

The OSPF Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the OSPF FAD TLV.
The usage of this sub-TLV is described in Section 6.3. It has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Extended Admin Group                     |
+-                                                             -+
|                            ...                                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

3

Length:

variable, dependent on the size of the Extended Admin Group.

MUST

 be a multiple of

4 octets.

Extended Administrative Group:

Extended Administrative Group, as defined in

[RFC7308]

.

The OSPF Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group sub-TLV
MUST NOT
once in an OSPF FAD TLV. If it appears more than once, the OSPF FAD TLV
the receiver.

 appear more than
MUST

 be ignored by

7.4.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags Sub-TLV

The OSPF Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags (FADF) sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the OSPF FAD TLV. It
has the following format:

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             Flags                             |
+-                                                             -+
|                            ...                                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

4

Length:

Flags:

variable, dependent on the size of the Flags field.

MUST

 be a multiple of 4 octets.

              0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7...
             +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+...
             |M| | |          ...
             +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+...

M-flag:

when set, the Flex-Algorithm-specific prefix and ASBR metric

MUST

 be used for

inter-area and external prefix calculation. This flag is not applicable to prefixes
advertised as SRv6 locators.

A new IANA "IGP Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags" registry is defined for allocation of bits in
the Flags field -- see Section 18.2.

Bits are defined/sent starting with bit 0 defined above. Additional bit definitions that may be
defined in the future
that will need to be transmitted.

 be assigned in ascending bit order to minimize the number of bits

SHOULD

Undefined bits

MUST

 be transmitted as 0.

Bits that are not transmitted

MUST

 be treated as if they are set to 0 on receipt.

The OSPF FADF sub-TLV
MUST NOT
more than once, the OSPF FAD TLV

 appear more than once in an OSPF FAD TLV. If it appears
MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

If the OSPF FADF sub-TLV is not present inside the OSPF FAD TLV, all the bits are assumed to be
set to 0.

If a node is configured to participate in a particular Flexible Algorithm, but the selected Flex-
Algorithm Definition includes a bit in the OSPF FADF sub-TLV that is not supported by the node,
it

 stop participating in such Flexible Algorithm.

MUST

New flag bits may be defined in the future. Implementations
in the received OSPF FADF sub-TLV -- not just the subset currently defined.

MUST

 check all advertised flag bits

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

The M-flag

MUST

 not be used when calculating prefix reachability for the SRv6 Locator prefix.

7.5.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Exclude SRLG Sub-TLV

The OSPF Flexible Algorithm Exclude SRLG (FAESRLG) sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the OSPF FAD TLV.
Its usage is described in Section 6.5. It has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                   Shared Risk Link Group Value                |
+-                                                             -+
|                            ...                                |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

5

Length:

variable, dependent on the number of SRLGs.

MUST

 be a multiple of 4 octets.

Shared Risk Link Group Value:

SRLG value, as defined in

[RFC4203]

.

The OSPF FAESRLG sub-TLV
more than once, the OSPF FAD TLV

MUST NOT

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

 appear more than once in an OSPF FAD TLV. If it appears

8.  IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric Sub-TLV

The IS-IS Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric (FAPM) sub-TLV supports the advertisement of a Flex-
Algorithm-specific prefix metric associated with a given prefix advertisement.

The IS-IS FAPM sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of TLVs 135, 235, 236, and 237 and has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      Type     |    Length     |Flex-Algorithm |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             Metric                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

6

Length:

5 octets

Flex-Algorithm:

single octet value between 128 and 255 inclusive.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

Metric: 4 octets of metric information.

The IS-IS FAPM sub-TLV
once with the same Flex-Algorithm value, the first instance
instances

 be ignored.

MUST

MAY

 appear multiple times in its parent TLV. If it appears more than

MUST

 be used and any subsequent

If a prefix is advertised with a Flex-Algorithm prefix metric larger than MAX_PATH_METRIC, as
defined in
computation.

 be considered during the Flexible Algorithm

, this prefix

[RFC5305]

MUST NOT

The usage of the Flex-Algorithm prefix metric is described in Section 13.

MUST NOT

The IS-IS FAPM sub-TLV
 be advertised as a sub-TLV of the IS-IS SRv6 Locator TLV
[RFC9352]
MUST
used instead. If the FAPM sub-TLV is present as a sub-TLV of the IS-IS SRv6 Locator TLV in the
received LSP, such FAPM sub-TLV

. The IS-IS SRv6 Locator TLV includes the Algorithm and Metric fields, which

 be ignored.

MUST

 be

9.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric Sub-TLV

The OSPF Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric (FAPM) sub-TLV supports the advertisement of a Flex-
Algorithm-specific prefix metric associated with a given prefix advertisement.

The OSPF FAPM sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the:

•

OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV

[RFC7684]

 and

•

following OSPFv3 TLVs, as defined in

[RFC8362]
:

◦
Inter-Area Prefix TLV
◦
External-Prefix TLV

The OSPF FAPM sub-TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Flex-Algorithm |     Flags     |            Reserved           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            Metric                             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

3 for OSPFv2, and 26 for OSPFv3

Length:

8 octets

Flex-Algorithm:

single octet value between 128 and 255 inclusive.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

Flags:

1-octet value

              0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
             +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
             |E|             |
             +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

E bit:

position 0: The type of external metric. If the bit is set, the metric specified is a Type

2 external metric. This bit is applicable only to OSPF external and Not-So-Stubby Area
(NSSA) external prefixes. This is semantically the same as the E bit in
[RFC2328]

 for OSPFv2 and OSPFv3, respectively.

Appendix A.4.7 of [RFC5340]

Appendix A.4.5 of

 and

Bits 1 through 7:

MUST

 be cleared by the originator and ignored by the receiver.

Reserved:

MUST

 be set to 0 and ignored at reception.

Metric:

4 octets of metric information.

The OSPF FAPM sub-TLV
once with the same Flex-Algorithm value, the first instance
instances

 appear multiple times in its parent TLV. If it appears more than
 be used and any subsequent
MUST

 be ignored.

MUST

MAY

The usage of the Flex-Algorithm prefix metric is described in Section 13.

10.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm ASBR Reachability Advertisement

An OSPF ABR advertises the reachability of ASBRs in its attached areas to enable routers within
those areas to perform route calculations for external prefixes advertised by the ASBRs. OSPF
extensions for advertisement of Flex-Algorithm-specific reachability and the metric for ASBRs is
similarly required for Flex-Algorithm external prefix computations, as described further in
Section 13.1.

10.1.  OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR LSA

The OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR (EIA-ASBR) LSA is an OSPF Opaque LSA
used to advertise additional attributes related to the reachability of the OSPFv2 ASBR that is
external to the area yet internal to the OSPF domain. Semantically, the OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR LSA is
equivalent to the fixed format Type 4 summary-LSA
the Link State ID (LSID) of the EIA-ASBR LSA does not carry the ASBR Router ID -- the ASBR
Router ID is carried in the body of the LSA. The OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR LSA is advertised by an OSPFv2
ABR, and its flooding is defined to be area-scoped only.

. Unlike the Type 4 summary-LSA,

[RFC5250]

[RFC2328]

 that is

An OSPFv2 ABR generates the EIA-ASBR LSA for an ASBR when it is advertising the Type 4
summary-LSA for it and has the need for advertising additional attributes for that ASBR beyond
what is conveyed in the fixed-format Type 4 summary-LSA. An OSPFv2 ABR
 advertise
the EIA-ASBR LSA for an ASBR for which it is not advertising the Type 4 summary-LSA. This

MUST NOT

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

ensures that the ABR does not generate the EIA-ASBR LSA for an ASBR to which it does not have
reachability in the base OSPFv2 topology calculation. The OSPFv2 ABR
 advertise the
EIA-ASBR LSA for an ASBR when it does not have additional attributes to advertise for that ASBR.

SHOULD NOT

The OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR LSA has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|            LS age             |     Options   |   LS Type     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  Opaque Type  |                 Opaque ID                     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     Advertising Router                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     LS sequence number                        |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|         LS checksum           |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
+-                            TLVs                             -+
|                             ...                               |

The LS age and Options fields are as defined in

Appendix A.4.1 of [RFC2328]
.

The LS Type

MUST

 be 10, indicating that the Opaque LSA flooding scope is area-local

[RFC5250]
.

The Opaque Type used by the OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR LSA is 11. The Opaque Type is used to
differentiate the various types of OSPFv2 Opaque LSAs and is described in

Section 3 of [RFC5250]
.

The Opaque ID field is an arbitrary value used to maintain multiple OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR LSAs. For
OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR LSAs, the Opaque ID has no semantic significance other than to differentiate
OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR LSAs originated by the same OSPFv2 ABR. If multiple OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR LSAs
specify the same ASBR, the attributes from the Opaque LSA with the lowest Opaque ID
SHOULD
be used.

The Advertising Router, LS sequence number, and LS checksum fields are as defined in
A.4.1 of [RFC2328]
.

Appendix

The Length field is as defined in
octets) of the Opaque LSA, including the LSA header and all TLVs (including padding).

Appendix A.4.1 of [RFC2328]

. It represents the total length (in

The format of the TLVs within the body of the OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR LSA is the same as the format
used by the Traffic Engineering Extensions to OSPFv2
consists of one or more nested TLV tuples. Nested TLVs are also referred to as sub-TLVs. The TLV
Length field defines the length of the value portion in octets (thus, a TLV with no value portion
would have a length of 0). The TLV is padded to 4-octet alignment; padding is not included in the
Length field (so a 3-octet value would have a length of 3, but the total size of the TLV would be 8

. The variable TLV section

[RFC3630]

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

octets). Nested TLVs are also 32-bit aligned. For example, a 1-octet value would have the Length
field set to 1, and 3 octets of padding would be added to the end of the value portion of the TLV.
The padding is composed of zeros.

10.1.1.  OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR TLV

The OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR (EIA-ASBR) TLV is a top-level TLV of the OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR
LSA and is used to advertise additional attributes associated with the reachability of an ASBR.

The OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|             Type              |           Length              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                        ASBR Router ID                         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
.                                                               .
.                            Sub-TLVs                           .
.                                                               .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

1

Length:

variable number of octets.

ASBR Router ID:

4 octets carrying the OSPF Router ID of the ASBR whose information is

being carried.

Sub-TLVs:

variable

Only a single OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR TLV
receiver

MUST

 ignore all instances of this TLV other than the first one in an LSA.

MUST

 be advertised in each OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR LSA, and the

The OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR TLV
MUST
least a single sub-TLV; otherwise, the OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR LSA

 be present inside an OSPFv2 EIA-ASBR LSA and

MUST

 include at

MUST

 be ignored by the receiver.

10.2.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm ASBR Metric Sub-TLV

The OSPF Flexible Algorithm ASBR Metric (FAAM) sub-TLV supports the advertisement of a Flex-
Algorithm-specific metric associated with a given ASBR reachability advertisement by an ABR.

The OSPF FAAM sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the:

•

OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR TLV, as defined in Section 10.1.1, and

•

OSPFv3 Inter-Area-Router TLV, as defined in

[RFC8362]

.

The OSPF FAAM sub-TLV has the following format:

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Flex-Algorithm |                   Reserved                    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            Metric                             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

1 for OSPFv2, and 33 for OSPFv3

Length:

8 octets

Flex-Algorithm:

single octet value between 128 and 255 inclusive.

Reserved:

3 octets.

MUST

 be set to 0 and ignored at reception.

Metric:

4 octets of metric information.

The OSPF FAAM sub-TLV
once with the same Flex-Algorithm value, the first instance
instances

 appear multiple times in its parent TLV. If it appears more than
 be used and any subsequent
MUST

 be ignored.

MUST

MAY

The advertisement of the ASBR reachability using the OSPF FAAM sub-TLV inside the OSPFv2
EIA-ASBR LSA follows
follows
specific Flex-Algorithm.

 and inside the OSPFv3 E-Inter-Area-Router-LSA
. The reachability of the ASBR is evaluated in the context of the

Section 12.4.3 of [RFC2328]

Section 4.8.5 of [RFC5340]

The FAAM computed by the ABR will be equal to the metric to reach the ASBR for a given Flex-
Algorithm in a source area or the cumulative metric via an ABR(s) when the ASBR is in a remote
area. This is similar in nature to how the metric is set when the ASBR reachability metric is
computed in the default algorithm for the metric in the OSPFv2 Type 4 ASBR summary-LSA and
the OSPFv3 Inter-Area-Router-LSA.

MUST NOT

An OSPF ABR
reachability advertisement for an ASBR between areas unless that ASBR is reachable for it in the
context of that specific Flex-Algorithm.

 include the OSPF FAAM sub-TLV with a specific Flex-Algorithm in its

MUST

An OSPF ABR
advertisement between areas for any Flex-Algorithm for which the winning FAD includes the M-
flag and the ASBR is reachable in the context of that specific Flex-Algorithm.

 include the OSPF FAAM sub-TLVs as part of the ASBR reachability

MUST

OSPF routers
winning FAD for the specific Flex- Algorithm includes the M-flag. OSPF routers
OSPF FAAM sub-TLV to calculate the reachability of the ASBRs for the specific Flex-Algorithm if

 use the OSPF FAAM sub-TLV to calculate the reachability of the ASBRs if the

MUST NOT

 use the

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

the winning FAD for such Flex-Algorithm does not include the M-flag. Instead, the OSPFv2 Type 4
summary-LSAs or the OSPFv3 Inter-Area-Router-LSAs
of [RFC2328]

 for OSPFv2 and OSPFv3, respectively.

Section 4.8.5 of [RFC5340]

 be used, as specified in

Section 16.2

MUST

 and

The processing of a new or changed OSPF FAAM sub-TLV triggers the processing of external
routes similar to what is described in
[RFC5340]
 for OSPFv3 for the specific Flex-Algorithm. The OSPF external and NSSA external route
calculation should be limited to a Flex-Algorithm(s) for which the winning FAD(s) includes the M-
flag.

Section 16.5 of [RFC2328]

 for OSPFv2 and

Section 4.8.5 of

Processing of the OSPF FAAM sub-TLV does not require the existence of the equivalent OSPFv2
Type 4 summary-LSA or the OSPFv3 Inter-Area-Router-LSA that is advertised by the same ABR
inside the area. The presence of the base LSA is not mandatory for the usage of the extended LSA
with the OSPF FAAM sub-TLV.

11.  Advertisement of Node Participation in a Flex-Algorithm

When a router is configured to participate in a particular Flex-Algorithm and is advertising such
participation, it is participating in that Flex-Algorithm.

MAY

Paths for various data planes
 be computed for a specific Flex-Algorithm. Each data plane
uses its own specific forwarding over such Flex-Algorithm paths. To guarantee the presence of
the data-plane-specific forwarding, associated with a particular Flex-Algorithm, a router
MUST
advertise its participation for a particular Flex-Algorithm for each data plane. Some data planes
may share a common participation advertisement (e.g., SR-MPLS and SRv6).

Advertisement of the participation for any particular Flex-Algorithm in any data plane is subject
to the condition specified in Section 5.3.

11.1.  Advertisement of Node Participation for Segment Routing

[RFC8665] [RFC8666]
, and
,
Algorithm is used to compute the IGP best path.

[RFC8667]

 (IGP Segment Routing extensions) describe how the SR-

Routers advertise support for the SR-Algorithm as a node capability, as described in the above-
mentioned IGP Segment Routing extensions. To advertise participation for a particular Flex-
Algorithm for Segment Routing, including both SR-MPLS and SRv6, the Flex-Algorithm value
MUST

 be advertised in the SR-Algorithm TLV (OSPF) or sub-TLV (IS-IS).

Segment Routing Flex-Algorithm participation advertisement is topology independent. When a
router advertises participation in an SR-Algorithm, the participation applies to all topologies in
which the advertising node participates.

11.2.  Advertisement of Node Participation for Other Data Planes

This section describes considerations related to how other data planes can advertise their
participation in a specific Flex-Algorithm.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

Data-plane-specific Flex-Algorithm participation advertisements
be topology independent, depending on the data plane itself.

MAY

 be topology specific or

MAY

Data-plane-specific advertisement for Flex-Algorithm participation
data plane and is outside the scope of this document.

MUST

 be defined for each

12.  Advertisement of Link Attributes for Flex-Algorithm

Various link attributes may be used during the Flex-Algorithm path calculation. For example,
include or exclude rules based on link affinities can be part of the Flex-Algorithm Definition, as
defined in Sections 6 and 7.

Application-specific link attributes, as specified in
during Flex-Algorithm calculation
MUST
 or
advertisements defined in
the ASLA advertisement. When the L-flag is set, then legacy advertisements
Section 4.2 of [RFC8919]
subject to the procedures and constraints defined in

 use the Application-Specific Link Attribute (ASLA)
[RFC8920]

 unless, in the case of IS-IS, the L-flag is set in

 be used,
MUST
 and Section 6.

, that are to be used

[RFC8920]

[RFC8919]

[RFC8919]

 or

The mandatory use of ASLA advertisements applies to link attributes specifically mentioned in
this document (Min Unidirectional Link Delay, TE Default Metric, Administrative Group,
Extended Administrative Group, and Shared Risk Link Group) and any other link attributes that
may be used in support of Flex-Algorithm in the future.

A new Application Identifier Bit is defined to indicate that the ASLA advertisement is associated
with the Flex-Algorithm application. This bit is set in the Standard Application Bit Mask (SABM)
defined in

[RFC8920]
:

[RFC8919]

 or

Bit 3:

Flexible Algorithm (X-bit)

ASLA Admin Group Advertisements to be used by the Flexible Algorithm application
either the Administrative Group or Extended Administrative Group encodings.

MAY

 use

A receiver supporting this specification
Extended Administrative Group TLVs, as defined in
the L-flag is set in the ASLA advertisement, as defined in
receiver
the Extended Administrative Group TLV, as defined in

MUST

MUST

Section 4.2 of [RFC8919]
 be able to accept both the Administrative Group TLV, as defined in

[RFC8919]

 or

[RFC8920]

[RFC7308]
.

 accept both ASLA Administrative Group and

. In the case of IS-IS, if
, then the
[RFC5305]

, and

13.  Calculation of Flexible Algorithm Paths

A router
 select the FAD
based on the rules defined in Section 5.3 before it can compute any path for that Flex-Algorithm.

 be configured to participate in a given Flex-Algorithm K and

MUST

MUST

No specific two-way connectivity check is performed during the Flex-Algorithm path
computation. The result of the existing Flex-Algorithm-agnostic, two-way connectivity check is
used during the Flex-Algorithm path computation.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

As described in Section 11, participation for any particular Flex-Algorithm
a per data plane basis. Calculation of the paths for any particular Flex-Algorithm is data plane
specific.

MUST

 be advertised on

Multiple data planes
the FAD for it. Traffic for each data plane will be forwarded based on the data-plane-specific
forwarding entries.

 use the same Flex-Algorithm value at the same time and, as such, share

MAY

The Flex-Algorithm Definition is data plane independent and is used by all Flex-Algorithm data
planes.

The way various data planes handle nodes that do not participate in Flexible Algorithm is data
plane specific. If the data plane only wants to consider participating nodes during the Flex-
Algorithm calculation, then when computing paths for a given Flex-Algorithm, all nodes that do
not advertise participation for that Flex-Algorithm in their data-plane-specific advertisements
MUST
planes that

 be pruned from the topology. Segment Routing, including both SR-MPLS and SRv6, are data

 use such pruning when computing Flex-Algorithm paths.

MUST

When computing the path for a given Flex-Algorithm, the metric-type that is part of the Flex-
Algorithm Definition (Section 5)

 be used.

MUST

When computing the path for a given Flex-Algorithm, the calculation-type that is part of the Flex-
Algorithm Definition (Section 5)

 be used.

MUST

Various links that include or exclude rules can be part of the Flex-Algorithm Definition. To refer
to a particular bit within an Admin Group or Extended Admin Group, we use the term "color".

Rules, in the order as specified below,
Flex-Algorithm computation.

MUST

 be used to prune links from the topology during the

For all links in the topology:

1.

Check if any exclude Administrative Group rule is part of the Flex-Algorithm Definition. If
such exclude rule exists, check if any color that is part of the exclude rule is also set on the
link. If such a color is set, the link

 be pruned from the computation.

MUST

2.

Check if any exclude SRLG rule is part of the Flex-Algorithm Definition. If such exclude rule
exists, check if the link is part of any SRLG that is also part of the SRLG exclude rule. If the
link is part of such SRLG, the link

 be pruned from the computation.

MUST

3.

Check if any include-any Administrative Group rule is part of the Flex-Algorithm Definition.
If such include-any rule exists, check if any color that is part of the include-any rule is also
set on the link. If no such color is set, the link

 be pruned from the computation.

MUST

4.

Check if any include-all Administrative Group rule is part of the Flex-Algorithm Definition. If
such include-all rule exists, check if all colors that are part of the include-all rule are also set
on the link. If all such colors are not set on the link, the link
computation.

 be pruned from the

MUST

5.

If the Flex-Algorithm Definition uses something other than the IGP metric (Section 5), and
such metric is not advertised for the particular link in a topology for which the computation

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

is done, such link
MUST
assumed in such a case.

 be pruned from the computation. A metric of value 0

MUST NOT

 be

13.1.  Multi-area and Multi-domain Considerations

Any IGP Shortest Path Tree calculation is limited to a single area. This applies to Flex-Algorithm
calculations as well. Given that the computing router does not have visibility of the topology of
the next areas or domain, the Flex-Algorithm-specific path to an inter-area or inter-domain
prefix will be computed for the local area only. The egress L1/L2 router (ABR in OSPF), or ASBR
for an inter-domain case, will be selected based on the best path for the given Flex-Algorithm in
the local area, and such egress ABR or ASBR router will be responsible to compute the best Flex-
Algorithm-specific path over the next area or domain. This may produce an end-to-end path,
which is suboptimal based on Flex-Algorithm constraints. In cases where the ABR or ASBR has no
reachability to a prefix for a given Flex-Algorithm in the next area or domain, the traffic could be
dropped by the ABR/ASBR.

To allow the optimal end-to-end path for an inter-area or inter-domain prefix for any Flex-
Algorithm to be computed, the FAPM has been defined in Sections 8 and 9. For external route
calculation for prefixes originated by ASBRs in remote areas in OSPF, the FAAM has been defined
in Section 10.2 for the ABR to indicate its ASBR reachability along with the metric for the specific
Flex-Algorithm.

MUST

 include the FAPM (see Sections 8 and 9) when advertising the prefix that is reachable

If the FAD selected based on the rules defined in Section 5.3 includes the M-flag, an ABR or an
ASBR
in a given Flex-Algorithm between areas or domains. Such metric will be equal to the metric to
reach the prefix for that Flex-Algorithm in its source area or domain. This is similar in nature to
how the metric is set when prefixes are advertised between areas or domains for the default
algorithm. When a prefix is unreachable in its source area or domain in a specific Flex-
Algorithm, then an ABR or ASBR
advertising the prefix between areas or domains.

 include the FAPM for that Flex-Algorithm when

MUST NOT

If the FAD selected based on the rules defined in Section 5.3 includes the M-flag, the FAPM
be used during the calculation of prefix reachability for the inter-area and external prefixes. If
the FAPM for the Flex-Algorithm is not advertised with the inter-area or external prefix
 be considered as unreachable for that Flex-
reachability advertisement, the prefix
Algorithm. Similarly, in the case of OSPF, for ASBRs in remote areas, if the FAAM is not advertised
by the local ABR(s), the ASBR
the external prefix advertisements from such an ASBR are not considered for that Flex-
Algorithm.

 be considered as unreachable for that Flex-Algorithm, and

MUST

MUST

MUST

The Flex-Algorithm prefix metrics and the OSPF Flex-Algorithm ASBR metrics
during the Flex-Algorithm computation unless the FAD selected based on the rules defined in
Section 5.3 includes the M-flag, as described in Sections 6.4 or 7.4.

MUST NOT

 be used

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

In the case of OSPF, when calculating external routes in a Flex-Algorithm, if the winning FAD
includes the M-flag, and the advertising ASBR is in a remote area, the metric will be the sum of
the following:

•

the FAPM for that Flex-Algorithm advertised with the external route by the ASBR

•

the metric to reach the ASBR for that Flex-Algorithm from the local ABR, i.e., the FAAM for
that Flex-Algorithm advertised by the ABR in the local area for that ASBR

•

the Flex-Algorithm-specific metric to reach the local ABR

This is similar in nature to how the metric is calculated for routes learned from remote ASBRs in
the default algorithm using the OSPFv2 Type 4 ASBR summary-LSA and the OSPFv3 Inter-Area-
Router-LSA.

If the FAD selected based on the rules defined in Section 5.3 does not include the M-flag, then the
IGP metrics associated with the prefix reachability advertisements used by the base IS-IS and
OSPF protocol
external route calculations in OSPF, the ASBR reachability is determined based on the base
OSPFv2 Type 4 summary-LSA and the OSFPv3 Inter-Area-Router-LSA.

 be used for the Flex-Algorithm route computation. Similarly, in the case of

MUST

NOT RECOMMENDED

 to use the Flex-Algorithm for inter-area or inter-domain prefix

It is
reachability without the M-flag set. The reason is that, without the explicit Flex-Algorithm prefix
metric advertisement (and the Flex-Algorithm ASBR metric advertisement in the case of OSPF
external route calculation), it is not possible to conclude whether the ABR or ASBR has
reachability to the inter-area or inter-domain prefix for a given Flex-Algorithm in the next area
or domain. Sending the Flex-Algorithm traffic for such a prefix towards the ABR or ASBR may
result in traffic looping or persistent traffic drop.

During the route computation, it is possible for the Flex-Algorithm-specific metric to exceed the
maximum value that can be stored in an unsigned 32-bit variable. In such scenarios, the value
 be considered to be of value 0xFFFFFFFF during the computation and advertised as such.
MUST

MUST NOT

The FAPM
intra-area routes. If the FAPM is advertised for these route-types, it
prefix reachability calculation.

 be advertised with IS-IS L1 or L2 intra-area, OSPFv2 intra-area, or OSPFv3
 be ignored during the

MUST

The M-flag in the FAD is not applicable to prefixes advertised as SRv6 locators. The IS-IS SRv6
Locator TLV
advertised between areas or domains, the Metric field in the Locator TLV of IS-IS
irrespective of the M-flag in the FAD advertisement.

 includes the Algorithm and Metric fields. When the SRv6 Locator is

[RFC9352]

MUST

 be used

OSPF external and NSSA external prefix advertisements
address in the prefix advertisements in the base protocol. In such a scenario, the Flex-Algorithm-
specific reachability of the external prefix is determined by Flex-Algorithm-specific reachability
of the forwarding address.

 include a non-zero forwarding

MAY

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

In OSPF, the procedures for translation of NSSA external prefix advertisements into external
prefix advertisements performed by an NSSA ABR
Algorithm. An NSSA translator
that are in the original NSSA external prefix advertisement from the NSSA ASBR in the translated
external prefix advertisement generated by it, regardless of its participation in those Flex-
Algorithms or its having reachability to the NSSA ASBR in those Flex-Algorithms.

 include the OSPF FAPM sub-TLVs for all Flex-Algorithms

 remain unchanged for Flex-

[RFC3101]

MUST

An area could become partitioned from the perspective of the Flex-Algorithm due to the
constraints and/or metric being used for it while maintaining the continuity in the base
algorithm. When that happens, some destinations inside that area could become unreachable in
that Flex-Algorithm. These destinations will not be able to use an inter-area path. This is the
consequence of the fact that the inter-area prefix reachability advertisement would not be
available for these intra-area destinations within the area. It is
risk of such partitioning by providing enough redundancy inside the area for each Flex-
Algorithm being used.

 to minimize the

RECOMMENDED

14.  Flex-Algorithm and Forwarding Plane

This section describes how Flex-Algorithm paths are used in forwarding.

14.1.  Segment Routing MPLS Forwarding for Flex-Algorithm

This section describes how Flex-Algorithm paths are used with SR MPLS forwarding.

Prefix-SID advertisements include an SR-Algorithm value and, as such, are associated with the
specified SR-Algorithm. Prefix-SIDs are also associated with a specific topology that is inherited
from the associated prefix reachability advertisement. When the algorithm value advertised is a
Flex-Algorithm value, the Prefix-SID is associated with paths calculated using that Flex-Algorithm
in the associated topology.

MUST

A Flex-Algorithm path
corresponds to the Prefix-SID that was advertised for that Flex-algorithm. If the Prefix-SID for a
given Flex-Algorithm is not known, the Flex-Algorithm-specific path cannot be installed in the
MPLS forwarding plane.

 be installed in the MPLS forwarding plane using the MPLS label that

Traffic that is supposed to be routed via Flex-Algorithm-specific paths
there are no such paths available.

MUST

 be dropped when

[RFC6571]

Loop Free Alternate (LFA) paths (
computed using the same constraints as the calculation of the primary paths for that Flex-
Algorithm. LFA paths
LFA paths
Flex-Algorithm computation.

 only use Prefix-SIDs advertised specifically for the given algorithm.
 use an Adjacency SID that belongs to a link that has been pruned from the

 or its variants) for a given Flex-Algorithm

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

 be

If LFA protection is being used to protect a given Flex-Algorithm path, all routers in the area
participating in the given Flex-Algorithm
SHOULD
Node-SID. These Node-SIDs are used to steer traffic over the LFA-computed backup path.

 advertise at least one Flex-Algorithm-specific

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

14.2.  SRv6 Forwarding for Flex-Algorithm

This section describes how Flex-Algorithm paths are used with SRv6 forwarding.

In SRv6, a node is provisioned with a (topology, algorithm) specific locator for each of the
topology/algorithm pairs supported by that node. Each locator is an aggregate prefix for all SIDs
provisioned on that node that have the matching topology/algorithm.

[RFC9352]
The SRv6 locator advertisement in IS-IS
value that associates the locator with a specific topology. SRv6 locator advertisements also
include an algorithm value that explicitly associates the locator with a specific algorithm. When
the algorithm value advertised with a locator represents a Flex-Algorithm, the paths to the
locator prefix

 be calculated using the specified Flex-Algorithm in the associated topology.

 includes the Multi-Topology Identifier (MTID)

MUST

Forwarding entries for the locator prefixes advertised in IS-IS
forwarding plane of the receiving SRv6-capable routers when the associated topology/algorithm
is participating in them. Forwarding entries for locators associated with Flex-Algorithms in
which the node is not participating

 be installed in the forwarding plane.

 be installed in the

MUST NOT

MUST

When the locator is associated with a Flex-Algorithm, LFA paths to the locator prefix
calculated using such Flex-Algorithm in the associated topology to guarantee that they follow the
same constraints as the calculation of the primary paths. LFA paths
advertised specifically for the given Flex-Algorithm.

 only use SRv6 SIDs

MUST

MUST

 be

If LFA protection is being used to protect locators associated with a given Flex-Algorithm, all
routers in the area participating in the given Flex-Algorithm
Algorithm-specific locator and END SID per node and one END.X SID for every link that has not
been pruned from such Flex-Algorithm computation. These locators and SIDs are used to steer
traffic over the LFA-computed backup path.

 advertise at least one Flex-

SHOULD

14.3.  Other Data Planes' Forwarding for Flex-Algorithm

Any data plane that wants to use Flex-Algorithm-specific forwarding needs to install some form
of Flex-Algorithm-specific forwarding entries.

Data-plane-specific forwarding for Flex-Algorithms
outside the scope of this document.

MUST

 be defined for each data plane and is

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

15.  Operational Considerations

15.1.  Inter-area Considerations

The scope of the Flex-Algorithm computation and the scope of the FAD is an area. In IS-IS, the
Router Capability TLV in which the FAD sub-TLV is advertised
prevents it from being flooded outside the level in which it was originated. Even though in OSPF
the FAD sub-TLV can be flooded in an RI LSA that has an AS flooding scope, the FAD selection is
performed for each individual area in which it is being used.

 have the S bit clear, which

MUST

There is no requirement for the FAD for a particular Flex-Algorithm to be identical in all areas in
the network. For example, traffic for the same Flex-Algorithm may be optimized for minimal
delay (e.g., using delay metric) in one area or level while being optimized for available
bandwidth (e.g., using IGP metric) in another area or level.

As described in Section 5.1, IS-IS allows the regeneration of the winning FAD from level 2,
without any modification to it, into a level 1 area. This allows the operator to configure the FAD
in one or multiple routers in level 2, without the need to repeat the same task in each level 1
area, if the intent is to have the same FAD for the particular Flex-Algorithm across all levels. This
can similarly be achieved in OSPF by using the AS flooding scope of the RI LSA in which the FAD
sub-TLV for the particular Flex-Algorithm is advertised.

Regeneration of the FAD from a level 1 area to the level 2 area is not supported in IS-IS, so if the
intent is to regenerate the FAD between IS-IS levels, the FAD
 be defined on a router(s) that
is in level 2. In OSPF, the FAD definition can be done in any area and propagated to all routers in
the OSPF routing domain by using the AS flooding scope of the RI LSA.

MUST

15.2.  Usage of the SRLG Exclude Rule with Flex-Algorithm

There are two different ways in which SRLG information can be used with Flex-Algorithms:

•

In a context of a single Flex-Algorithm, it can be used for computation of backup paths, as
described in
of any specific SRLG constraint with the given Flex-Algorithm Definition.

[RTGWG-SEGMENT-ROUTING-TI-LFA]

. This usage does not require association

•

In the context of multiple Flex-Algorithms, it can be used for creating disjoint sets of paths by
pruning the links belonging to a specific SRLG from the topology on which a specific Flex-
Algorithm computes its paths. This usage:

◦
facilitates the usage of already deployed SRLG configurations for the setup of disjoint paths
between two or more Flex-Algorithms and
◦
requires explicit association of a given Flex-Algorithm with a specific set of SRLG
constraints, as defined in Sections 6.5 and 7.5.

The two usages mentioned above are orthogonal.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

15.3.  Max-Metric Consideration

Both IS-IS and OSPF have a mechanism to set the IGP metric on a link to a value that would make
the link either unreachable or serve as the link of last resort. Similar functionality would be
needed for the Min Unidirectional Link Delay and TE metric, as these can be used to compute
Flex-Algorithm paths.

The link can be made unreachable for all Flex-Algorithms that use the Min Unidirectional Link
Delay as a metric, as described in Section 5.1, by removing the Flex-Algorithm ASLA Min
Unidirectional Link Delay advertisement for the link. The link can be made the link of last resort
by setting the delay value in the Flex-Algorithm ASLA delay advertisement for the link to the
value of 16,777,215 (224 - 1).

The link can be made unreachable for all Flex-Algorithms that use the TE metric, as described in
Section 5.1, by removing the Flex-Algorithm ASLA TE metric advertisement for the link. The link
can be made the link of last resort by setting the TE metric value in the Flex-Algorithm ASLA
delay advertisement for the link to the value of (224 - 1) in IS-IS and (232 - 1) in OSPF.

15.4.  Flexible Algorithm Definition and Changes

When configuring a node to participate in a specific Flex-Algorithm, the components of the FAD
(calculation-type, metric-type, and constraints) should be considered carefully. The configuration
of participation in a particular Flex-Algorithm doesn't guarantee that the node will actively
participate in it, because it may not support the calculation-type, the metric-type, or some
constraint advertised by the winning FAD (see Section 5.3). Changes in the FAD configuration
should also be considered in light of the capabilities of the participating routers in the scope of
the FAD advertisement.

As Section 5.3 notes, a change in the Flex-Algorithm Definition may require network-wide
Shortest Path First (SPF) recomputation and network reconvergence. This potential for
disruption should be taken into consideration when planning and making changes to the FAD.

15.5.  Number of Flex-Algorithms

The maximum number of Flex-Algorithms is determined by the algorithm range 128-255, as
specified in Section 4. Although possible, it is not expected that all of them will be used
simultaneously. Typically, only a limited subset of Flex-Algorithms is expected to be deployed in
the network.

16.  Backward Compatibility

This extension brings no new backward-compatibility issues. IS-IS, OSPFv2, and OSPFv3 all have
well-defined handling of unrecognized TLVs and sub-TLVs that allows the introduction of new
extensions, similar to those defined here, without introducing any interoperability issues.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

17.  Security Considerations

This document adds two new ways to disrupt IGP networks:

•

An attacker can hijack a particular Flex-Algorithm by advertising a FAD with a priority of
255 (or any priority higher than that of the legitimate nodes).

•

An attacker could make it look like a router supports a particular Flex-Algorithm when it
actually doesn't, or vice versa.

Both of these attacks can be addressed by the existing security extensions, as described in
[RFC5304]
[RFC5340]

 and
 for OSPFv3.

 for OSPFv2, and in

 for IS-IS, in

[RFC5310]

[RFC7474]

[RFC2328]

 and

[RFC4552]

 and

If the node that is authenticated is taken over by an attacker, such rogue node can advertise the
FAD for any Flex-Algorithm. Doing so may result in traffic for such Flex-Algorithm to be
misrouted, or not delivered at all, for example, by using an unsupported metric-type, calculation-
type, or constraint. Such attack is not preventable through authentication, and it is not different
from advertising any other incorrect information through IS-IS or OSPF.

18.  IANA Considerations

18.1.  IGP IANA Considerations

18.1.1.  IGP Algorithm Types Registry

This document makes the following registration in the "IGP Algorithm Types" registry:

Value

Description

Reference

128-255

Flexible Algorithms

RFC 9350, Section 4

Table 1: IGP Algorithm Types Registry

18.1.2.  IGP Metric-Type Registry

IANA has created the "IGP Metric-Type" registry within the "Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP)
Parameters" registry group. The registration policy is "Standards Action"
Values are assigned from the range 0-255 and have been registered as follows.

[RFC8126] [RFC7120]
.

Type Description

0

1

IGP Metric

Min Unidirectional Link Delay as defined in
and

[RFC7471], Section 4.2

[RFC8570], Section 4.2

Reference

RFC 9350,
Section 5.1

RFC 9350,
Section 5.1

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

Type Description

2

Traffic Engineering Default Metric as defined in
3.7
 and Traffic Engineering Metric as defined in
2.5.5

[RFC5305], Section
[RFC3630], Section

Table 2: IGP Metric-Type Registry

Reference

RFC 9350,
Section 5.1

18.2.  IGP Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags Registry

IANA has created the "IGP Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags" registry within the "Interior
Gateway Protocol (IGP) Parameters" registry group. The registration policy is "Standards Action".
New registrations should be assigned in ascending bit order (see Section 6.4); the following single
bit has been assigned as follows.

Bit Name

Reference

0

Prefix Metric Flag (M-flag)

RFC 9350, Sections 6.4 and 7.4

Table 3: IGP Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags Registry

18.3.  IS-IS IANA Considerations

18.3.1.  IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV Registry

This document makes the following registration in the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router
CAPABILITY TLV" registry.

Value Description

Reference

26

Flexible Algorithm Definition (FAD)

RFC 9350, Section 5.1

Table 4: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV Registry

18.3.2.  IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability Registry

This document makes the following registration in the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix
Reachability" registry.

Type Description

27

135

235

236

237

Reference

6

Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric
(FAPM)

n

y

y

y

y

RFC 9350,
Section 8

Table 5: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability Registry

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

18.3.3.  IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV" registry
within the "IS-IS TLV Codepoints" registry group. The registration procedure is "Expert Review"
(note that the "IS-IS TLV Codepoints" registry group includes Expert Review guidance that applies
to all registries thereunder).

The sub-sub-TLVs defined in this document have been assigned as follows.

Type

Description

Reserved

Reference

RFC 9350

Flexible Algorithm Exclude Admin Group

RFC 9350, Section 6.1

Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group

RFC 9350, Section 6.2

Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group

RFC 9350, Section 6.3

Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags

RFC 9350, Section 6.4

Flexible Algorithm Exclude SRLG

RFC 9350, Section 6.5

0

1

2

3

4

5

6-255

Unassigned

Table 6: IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for Flexible Algorithm Definition Sub-TLV Registry

18.4.  OSPF IANA Considerations

18.4.1.  OSPF Router Information (RI) TLVs Registry

This document makes the following registration in the "OSPF Router Information (RI) TLVs"
registry.

Value Description

Reference

16

Flexible Algorithm Definition (FAD) TLV

RFC 9350, Section 5.2

Table 7: OSPF Router Information (RI) TLVs Registry

18.4.2.  OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV Sub-TLVs Registry

This document makes the following registration in the "OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV Sub-TLVs"
registry.

Value Description

Reference

3

Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric (FAPM)

RFC 9350, Section 9

Table 8: OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV Sub-TLVs Registry

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

18.4.3.  OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs Registry

This document makes the following registrations in the "OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs"
registry.

Value Description

Reference

26

33

Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric (FAPM)

RFC 9350, Section 9

OSPF Flexible Algorithm ASBR Metric

RFC 9350, Section 10.2

Table 9: OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs Registry

18.4.4.  OSPF Flex-Algorithm Prefix Metric Bits Registry

IANA has created the "OSPF Flex-Algorithm Prefix Metric Bits" registry under the "Open Shortest
Path First (OSPF) Parameters" registry. The registration procedure is "IETF Review". Bits 1-7 are
unassigned, and the initial value has been assigned as follows.

Bit Number Description

Reference

0

E bit - External Type

RFC 9350, Section 9

Table 10: OSPF Flex-Algorithm Prefix Metric Bits Registry

18.4.5.  Opaque Link-State Advertisements (LSA) Option Types Registry

This document makes the following registration in the "Opaque Link-State Advertisements (LSA)
Option Types" registry within the "Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) Opaque Link-State
Advertisements (LSA) Option Types" registry group.

Value Opaque Type

Reference

11

OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR (EIA-ASBR) LSA

RFC 9350, Section 10.1

Table 11: Opaque Link-State Advertisements (LSA) Option Types Registry

18.4.6.  OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR TLVs Registry

IANA has created the "OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR TLVs" registry within the "Open
Shortest Path First v2 (OSPFv2) Parameters" registry group. The registration procedure is "IETF
Review" or "IESG Approval". The initial value has been assigned as follows.

Value Description

Reference

1

Extended Inter-Area ASBR

RFC 9350

Table 12: OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR TLVs
Registry

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

The values 2-32767 are unassigned, the values 32768-33023 are reserved for Experimental Use,
and the values 0 and 33024-65535 are reserved.

18.4.7.  OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR Sub-TLVs Registry

IANA has created the "OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR Sub-TLVs" registry under the "Open
Shortest Path First v2 (OSPFv2) Parameters" registry. The registration procedure is "IETF Review"
or "IESG Approval". The initial value has been assigned as follows.

Value Description

Reference

1

OSPF Flexible Algorithm ASBR Metric

RFC 9350

Table 13: OSPFv2 Extended Inter-Area ASBR Sub-TLVs Registry

The values 2-32767 are unassigned, the values 32768-33023 are reserved for Experimental Use,
and the values 0 and 33024-65535 are reserved.

18.4.8.  OSPF Flexible Algorithm Definition TLV Sub-TLVs Registry

IANA has created the "OSPF Flexible Algorithm Definition TLV Sub-TLVs" registry within the
"Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) Parameters" registry group. The registration procedure is "IETF
Review" or "IESG Approval".

The "OSPF Flexible Algorithm Definition TLV Sub-TLVs" registry will define sub-TLVs at any level
of nesting for the Flexible Algorithm TLV, and new values can be allocated via the registration
procedure.

This document registers the following sub-TLVs.

Bit Number Description

Reserved

Reference

RFC 9350

0

1

2

3

4

5

Flexible Algorithm Exclude Admin Group

RFC 9350, Section 7.1

Flexible Algorithm Include-Any Admin Group

RFC 9350, Section 7.2

Flexible Algorithm Include-All Admin Group

RFC 9350, Section 7.3

Flexible Algorithm Definition Flags

RFC 9350, Section 7.4

Flexible Algorithm Exclude SRLG

RFC 9350, Section 7.5

Table 14: OSPF Flexible Algorithm Definition TLV Sub-TLVs Registry

The values 6-32767 are unassigned, and values 32768-33023 are for Experimental Use; these will
not be registered with IANA.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

Types in the range 33024-65535 are not to be assigned at this time. Before any assignments can
be made in the 33024-65535 range, there
considerations that cover the range being assigned.

 be an IETF specification that specifies IANA

MUST

18.4.9.  Link Attribute Application Identifiers Registry

This document registers the following bit in the "Link Attribute Application Identifiers" registry.

Bit Description

Reference

3

Flexible Algorithm (X-bit)

RFC 9350, Section 12

Table 15: Link Attribute Application Identifiers Registry

19.  References

19.1.  Normative References

[ISO10589]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4203]

[RFC5250]

[RFC5307]

[RFC7308]

[RFC7684]

,

ISO "Information technology - Telecommunications and information exchange
between systems - Intermediate System to Intermediate System intra-domain
routeing information exchange protocol for use in conjunction with the protocol
for providing the connectionless-mode network service (ISO 8473)" Second
Edition ISO/IEC 10589:2002

, November 2002.

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Kompella, K., Ed.
Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)" RFC 4203 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4203

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4203>

Y. Rekhter, Ed. "OSPF Extensions in Support of

, October 2005,

,

,

.

Berger, L. Bryskin, I. Zinin, A.
RFC 5250 DOI 10.17487/RFC5250
rfc5250>

,
,
.

,

, and

R. Coltun "The OSPF Opaque LSA Option"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2008,

,

 and

Kompella, K., Ed.
,
Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)" RFC 5307 DOI 10.17487/RFC5307
October 2008,

Y. Rekhter, Ed. "IS-IS Extensions in Support of Generalized
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5307>

,

.

,

Osborne, E. "Extended Administrative Groups in MPLS Traffic Engineering
,
(MPLS-TE)" RFC 7308 DOI 10.17487/RFC7308
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7308>

<https://www.rfc-

, July 2014,

.

,

Psenak, P. Gredler, H. Shakir, R. Henderickx, W. Tantsura, J.
"OSPFv2 Prefix/Link Attribute Advertisement" RFC 7684 DOI 10.17487/RFC7684
,
November 2015,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7684>

A. Lindem

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

[RFC7770]

[RFC7981]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8362]

[RFC8660]

[RFC8665]

[RFC8666]

[RFC8667]

[RFC8919]

[RFC8920]

[RFC9352]

,

Lindem, A., Ed. Shen, N. Vasseur, JP. Aggarwal, R.
,
,
OSPF for Advertising Optional Router Capabilities" RFC 7770 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7770

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7770>

, February 2016,

, and
,

S. Shaffer "Extensions to

,

,

.

Ginsberg, L. Previdi, S.
,
, and
Information" RFC 7981 DOI 10.17487/RFC7981
,
editor.org/info/rfc7981>
.

,

M. Chen "IS-IS Extensions for Advertising Router

,

, October 2016,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Lindem, A. Roy, A. Goethals, D. Reddy Vallem, V.
State Advertisement (LSA) Extensibility" RFC 8362 DOI 10.17487/RFC8362
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8362>

, and
,

F. Baker "OSPFv3 Link

,

,

,

,

.

, April

,

R.
Bashandy, A., Ed. Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing with the MPLS Data Plane" RFC 8660 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8660

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8660>

, December 2019,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Filsfils, C. Gredler, H. Shakir, R. Henderickx, W.
,
,
and
10.17487/RFC8665

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8665>

J. Tantsura "OSPF Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC 8665 DOI

, December 2019,

,

,

,

,

,

.

 and

Psenak, P., Ed.
8666 DOI 10.17487/RFC8666
,
rfc8666>

.

S. Previdi, Ed. "OSPFv3 Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC

,

,

, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L., Ed. Filsfils, C. Bashandy, A. Gredler, H.
B.
Decraene "IS-IS Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC 8667 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8667

,
, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8667>

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

J. Drake "IS-IS
Ginsberg, L. Psenak, P. Previdi, S. Henderickx, W.
,
Application-Specific Link Attributes" RFC 8919 DOI 10.17487/RFC8919
2020,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8919>
.

, and

,

,

,

, October

,

J. Drake "OSPF
Psenak, P., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Henderickx, W. Tantsura, J.
,
,
Application-Specific Link Attributes" RFC 8920 DOI 10.17487/RFC8920
2020,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8920>
.

, and

,

,

, October

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Filsfils, C. Bashandy, A. Decraene, B.
,
,
to Support Segment Routing over the IPv6 Data Plane" RFC 9352 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9352

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9352>

Z. Hu "IS-IS Extensions

, February 2023,

, and
,

.

,

19.2.  Informative References

[RFC2328]

,

Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

,

,

.

, April 1998,

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

[RFC3101]

[RFC3630]

[RFC3906]

[RFC4552]

[RFC5304]

[RFC5305]

[RFC5310]

[RFC5340]

[RFC6571]

[RFC7120]

[RFC7471]

[RFC7474]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8570]

Murphy, P. "The OSPF Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) Option" RFC 3101 DOI
10.17487/RFC3101

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3101>

, January 2003,

,

,

,

.

,

D. Yeung "Traffic Engineering (TE) Extensions to
Katz, D. Kompella, K.
, and
<https://
OSPF Version 2" RFC 3630 DOI 10.17487/RFC3630
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3630>

, September 2003,

,

.

 and

Shen, N.
Traffic Engineering Tunnels" RFC 3906 DOI 10.17487/RFC3906
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3906>

H. Smit "Calculating Interior Gateway Protocol (IGP) Routes Over
, October 2004,

,

,

.

Gupta, M.
 and
DOI 10.17487/RFC4552

N. Melam "Authentication/Confidentiality for OSPFv3" RFC 4552

,

,

,

, June 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4552>

.

 and

Li, T.
10.17487/RFC5304

R. Atkinson "IS-IS Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5304 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5304>

, October 2008,

,

,

,

.

 and

Li, T.
,
10.17487/RFC5305

H. Smit "IS-IS Extensions for Traffic Engineering" RFC 5305 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5305>

, October 2008,

,

,

.

,

Bhatia, M. Manral, V. Li, T. Atkinson, R. White, R.
,
Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5310 DOI 10.17487/RFC5310
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5310>
.

, and

,

,

M. Fanto "IS-IS Generic

,
, February 2009,

Coltun, R. Ferguson, D. Moy, J.
10.17487/RFC5340

,
, July 2008,

,

, and

A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

.

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Francois, P., Ed. Shand, M. Decraene, B. Uttaro, J. Leymann, N.
,
,
M. Horneffer "Loop-Free Alternate (LFA) Applicability in Service Provider
and
<https://www.rfc-
(SP) Networks" RFC 6571 DOI 10.17487/RFC6571
editor.org/info/rfc6571>
.

, June 2012,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Cotton, M. "Early IANA Allocation of Standards Track Code Points" BCP 100 RFC
7120 DOI 10.17487/RFC7120
,
rfc7120>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2014,

,

.

,

S. Previdi "OSPF Traffic
Giacalone, S. Ward, D. Drake, J. Atlas, A.
Engineering (TE) Metric Extensions" RFC 7471 DOI 10.17487/RFC7471
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7471>
2015,
.

, and

,

,

,

,

, March

,

Bhatia, M. Hartman, S. Zhang, D.
, and
OSPFv2 When Using Manual Key Management" RFC 7474 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7474

A. Lindem, Ed. "Security Extension for
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7474>

, April 2015,

.

,

,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Q. Wu "IS-
Ginsberg, L., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Giacalone, S. Ward, D. Drake, J.
,
IS Traffic Engineering (TE) Metric Extensions" RFC 8570 DOI 10.17487/RFC8570
,
March 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8570>

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

[RFC8986]

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Camarillo, P., Ed. Leddy, J. Voyer, D. Matsushima, S.
"Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) Network Programming" RFC 8986 DOI
10.17487/RFC8986

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8986>

, February 2021,

, and
,

Z. Li

,

,

,

,

.

,

[ROUTING-PLANES-USING-SR]

Hegde, S.
Segment Routing" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-gulkohegde-routing-
,
planes-using-sr-00
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
, 13 March 2017,
gulkohegde-routing-planes-using-sr-00>

A. Gulko "Separating Routing Planes using

 and

.

,

,

[RTGWG-SEGMENT-ROUTING-TI-LFA]

Litkowski, S. Bashandy, A. Filsfils, C. Francois, P.

,

,

,

,

, and

Decraene, B.
D. Voyer "Topology Independent Fast Reroute using Segment
,
,
Routing" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-rtgwg-segment-routing-ti-
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-rtgwg-
lfa-09
, 23 December 2022,
segment-routing-ti-lfa-09>
.

,

Acknowledgements

This document, among other things, addresses the problem that
was trying to solve. All authors of that document agreed to join this document.

[ROUTING-PLANES-USING-SR]

Thanks to
Manju Sivaji

Eric Rosen Tony Przygienda William Britto A. J. Gunter Van de Velde Dirk Goethals

,

,

,

,

,

, and

Baalajee S.

 for their detailed review and excellent comments.

Thanks to
definition.

Cengiz Halit

 for his review and feedback during the initial phase of the solution

Thanks to

Kenji Kumaki

 for his comments.

Thanks to

Acee Lindem

 for editorial comments.

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Peter Psenak (
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Apollo Business Center
Mlynske nivy 43
82109 Bratislava
Slovakia
Email:

 ppsenak@cisco.com

Shraddha Hegde
Juniper Networks, Inc.
Embassy Business Park
Bangalore 560093
KA
India
Email:

 shraddha@juniper.net

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9350

IGP Flexible Algorithm

February 2023

Clarence Filsfils
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Brussels
Belgium
Email:

 cfilsfil@cisco.com

Ketan Talaulikar
Cisco Systems, Inc
India
Email:

 ketant.ietf@gmail.com

Arkadiy Gulko
Edward Jones
Email:

 arkadiy.gulko@edwardjones.com

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

