Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9248
Standards Track
June 2022
2070-1721
B. Rosen

RFC 9248
Interoperability Proﬁle for Relay User Equipment

Abstract

Video Relay Service (VRS) is a term used to describe a method by which a hearing person can
communicate with a sign language speaker who is deaf, deafblind, or hard of hearing (HoH) or
has a speech disability using an interpreter (i.e., a Communications Assistant (CA)) connected via
a videophone to the sign language speaker and an audio telephone call to the hearing user. The CA
interprets using sign language on the videophone link and voice on the telephone link. Often the
interpreters may be employed by a company or agency, termed a "provider" in this document. The
provider also provides a video service that allows users to connect video devices to their service
and subsequently to CAs and other sign language speakers. It is desirable that the videophones
used by the sign language speaker conform to a standard so that any device may be used with any
provider and that direct video calls between sign language speakers work. This document
describes the interface between a videophone and a provider.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9248
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Requirements Language

4.  General Requirements

5.  SIP Signaling

5.1.  Registration

5.2.  Session Establishment

5.2.1.  Normal Call Origination

5.2.2.  Dial-Around Origination

5.2.3.  RUE Contact Information

5.2.4.  Incoming Calls

5.2.5.  Emergency Calls

5.3.  Mid-Call Signaling

5.4.  URI Representation of Phone Numbers

5.5.  Transport

6.  Media

6.1.  SRTP and SRTCP

6.2.  Text-Based Communication

6.3.  Video

6.4.  Audio

6.5.  DTMF Digits

6.6.  Session Description Protocol

6.7.  Privacy

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

6.8.  Negative Acknowledgement, Picture Loss Indicator, and Full Intraframe Request

Features

7.  Contacts

7.1.  CardDAV Login and Synchronization

7.2.  Contacts Import/Export Service

8.  Video Mail

9.  Provisioning and Provider Selection

9.1.  RUE Provider Selection

9.2.  RUE Conﬁguration Service

9.2.1.  Provider Conﬁguration

9.2.2.  RUE Conﬁguration

9.2.3.  Versions

9.2.4.  Examples

9.2.5.  Using the Provider Selection and RUE Conﬁguration Services Together

9.3.  OpenAPI Interface Descriptions

9.3.1.  Provider List

9.3.2.  Conﬁguration

10. IANA Considerations

10.1.  RUE Provider List Registry

10.2.  Registration of Rue-Owner Value of the Purpose Parameter

11. Security Considerations

12. Normative References

13. Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

1.  Introduction

Video Relay Service (VRS) is a form of Telecommunications Relay Service (TRS) that enables
people with hearing disabilities who use sign language, such as American Sign Language (ASL), to
communicate with voice telephone users through video equipment. These services also enable
communication between such individuals directly in suitable modalities, including any
combination of sign language via video, real-time text, and speech.

This interoperability proﬁle for Relay User Equipment (RUE) is a proﬁle of the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP) and related media protocols that enables end-user equipment registration and
calling for VRS calls. It speciﬁes the minimal set of call ﬂows and IETF and ITU-T standards that
must be supported, provides guidance where the standards leave multiple implementation
options, and speciﬁes minimal and extended capabilities for RUE calls.

Both subscriber-to-provider (interpreted) and direct subscriber-to-subscriber calls are supported
on this interface. While there are some accommodations in this document to maximize
backwards compatibility with other devices and services that are used to provide VRS service,
backwards compatibility is not a requirement, and some interwork may be required to allow
direct video calls to older devices. This document only describes the interface between the device
and the provider, not any other interface the provider may have.

The following illustrates a typical relay call. The RUE device and the communications assistant
(sign language interpreter) have videophones. The hearing user has a telephone (mobile or ﬁxed).

                           ||== RUE Interface (this document)
                           ||
                           \/
  +------+   +------+      -       +--------+     -      +-------+
  |User  |   |RUE   |    (   )     |Provider|    (  )    |User   |
  |who is|   |Device|<-(Internet)->|        |            |who is |
  |Deaf  |<->|      |              |        |<-( PSTN )->|Hearing|
  +------+   +------+   --------   +--------+   ------   +-------+
                                        ^
                                        |
                                +--------------+
                                |Communications|
                                |Assistant     |
                                +--------------+

2.  Terminology

Communications Assistant (CA):

A sign-language interpreter working for a VRS provider, providing functionally equivalent
phone service.

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

Communication modality (modality):

A speciﬁc form of communication that may be employed by two users, e.g., English voice,
Spanish voice, American Sign Language, English lipreading, or French real-time text. Here, one
communication modality is assumed to encompass both the language and the way that
language is exchanged. For example, English voice and French voice are two diﬀerent
communication modalities.

Default video relay service:

The video relay service operated by a subscriber's default VRS provider.

Default video relay service provider (default provider):

The VRS provider that registers and assigns a telephone number to a speciﬁc subscriber and,
by default, provides the VRS for incoming voice calls to the user. The default provider, also by
default, provides the VRS for outgoing relay calls. The user can have more than one telephone
number, and each has a default provider.

Outbound dial-around call:

A relay call where the subscriber speciﬁes the use of a VRS provider other than the default VRS
provider. This can be accomplished by the user dialing a "front-door" number for a VRS
provider and signing or texting a phone number to call ("two-stage"). Alternatively, this can be
accomplished by the user's RUE software instructing the server of its default VRS provider to
automatically route the call through the alternate provider to the desired Public Switched
Telephone Network (PSTN) directory number ("one-stage"). Dial-around is per call; for any
call, a user can use the default VRS provider or any dial-around VRS provider.

Full Intra Request (FIR):

A request to a video media sender, requiring that media sender to send a decoder refresh point
at the earliest opportunity. FIR is sometimes known as "instantaneous decoder refresh
request", "video fast update request", or "fast update request".

Point-to-Point Call (P2P Call):

A call between two RUEs, without including a CA.

Relay call:

A call that allows people with hearing or speech disabilities to use a RUE to talk to users of
conventional voice services with the aid of a CA to relay the communication.

Relay service (RS):

A service that allows a registered subscriber to use a RUE to make and receive relay calls,
point-to-point calls, and relay-to-relay calls. The functions provided by the relay service
include the provision of media links supporting the communication modalities used by the
caller and callee, user registration and validation, authentication, authorization, automatic
call distributor (ACD) platform functions, routing (including emergency call routing), call
setup, mapping, call features (such as call forwarding and video mail), and assignment of CAs
to relay calls.

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

Relay service provider (provider):

An organization that operates a relay service. A subscriber selects a relay service provider to
assign and register a telephone number for their use, to register with for receipt of incoming
calls, and to provide the default service for outgoing calls.

Relay user:

Please refer to "subscriber".

Relay user E.164 Number (user E.164):

The telephone number (in ITU-T E.164 format) assigned to the user.

Relay User Equipment (RUE):

A SIP user agent (UA) enhanced with extra features to support a subscriber in requesting,
receiving, and using relay calls. A RUE may take many forms, including a stand-alone device;
an application running on a general-purpose computing device, such as a laptop, tablet, or
smartphone; or proprietary equipment connected to a server that provides the RUE interface.

RUE interface:

The interfaces described in this document between a RUE and a VRS provider who supports it.

Sign language:

A language that uses hand gestures and body language to convey meaning, including, but not
limited to, American Sign Language (ASL).

Subscriber:

An individual who has registered with a provider and who obtains service by using a RUE. This
is the conventional telecom term for an end-user customer, which in this case is a relay user. A
user may be a subscriber to more than one VRS provider.

Video Relay Service (VRS):

A relay service for people with hearing or speech disabilities who use sign language to
communicate using video equipment (video RUE) with other people in real time. The video
link allows the CA to view and interpret the subscriber's signed conversation and relay the
conversation back and forth with the other party.

3.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here. Lower- or mixed-case uses of these key words are not to be interpreted as
carrying special signiﬁcance.

 when, and only when, they appear in all

" in this document are to be

", "
OPTIONAL

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

", "

", "

", "

",

4.  General Requirements

[RFC9110] [RFC9112]

All HTTP/HTTPS
HTTPS. Both HTTPS and all SIP connections
MUST

[RFC8446]

 support

.

 connections speciﬁed throughout this document

MUST

MUST

 use TLS conforming to at least

[RFC7525]

 use
 and

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

All text data payloads not otherwise constrained by a speciﬁcation in another standards
document

 be encoded as Unicode UTF-8.

MUST

MAY

MUST

 support separate interfaces for IPv4 and IPv6 by having more than one

 support IPv4 and IPv6. Dual-stack support is NOT required, and provider

Implementations
implementations
server in the appropriate SRV record where there is either an A or AAAA record in each server DNS
record but not both. The same version of IP
unless Interactive Connectivity Establishment (ICE)
may explicitly oﬀer IPv4, IPv6, or both for any media stream.

 be used for both signaling and media of a call

 is used; in which case, candidates

[RFC8445]

MUST

5.  SIP Signaling

Implementations of the RUE interface

MUST

 conform to the following core SIP standards:

• [RFC3261]

 (Base SIP)

• [RFC3263]

 (Locating SIP Servers)

• [RFC3264]

 (Oﬀer/Answer)

• [RFC3840]

 (User Agent Capabilities)

• [RFC5626]

 (Outbound)

• [RFC8866]

 (Session Description Protocol)

• [RFC3323]

 (Privacy)

• [RFC3605]

 (RTCP Attribute in SDP)

• [RFC3311]

 (UPDATE Method)

• [RFC5393]

 (Loop-Fix)

• [RFC5658]

 (Record-Route Fix)

• [RFC5954]

 (ABNF Fix)

• [RFC3960]

 (Early Media)

• [RFC6442]

 (Geolocation Header Field)

In the above documents, the RUE device conforms to the requirements of a SIP user agent, and
the provider conforms to the requirements of the registrar and proxy server where the document
speciﬁes diﬀerent behavior for diﬀerent roles. For providers oﬀering a video mail service,
[RFC6665]
(see Section 8).

 be implemented to support the Message-Waiting Indicator (MWI)

 (SIP Events)

MUST

In addition, implementations

MUST

 conform to:

• [RFC3327]

 (Path Header Field)

• [RFC8445]

 and

[RFC8839]

 (ICE)

• [RFC3326]

 (Reason Header Field)

• [RFC3515]

 (REFER Method)

• [RFC3891]

 (Replaces Header Field)

• [RFC3892]

 (Referred-By Header Field)

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

Implementations
implement ICE-lite.

MUST

 implement full ICE, although they

MAY

 interwork with user agents that

Implementations
application, platform, and version in all SIP requests and
with the same content in SIP responses.

MUST

 include a "User-Agent" header ﬁeld uniquely identifying the RUE

MUST

 include a "Server" header ﬁeld

Implementations intended to support mobile platforms
as at least one way to support waking up the client from the background state.

 support

MUST

[RFC8599]

 and

MUST

 use it

The SIP signaling for registration and placing/receiving calls depends on the conﬁguration of
various values into the RUE device. Section 9.2 describes the conﬁguration mechanism that
provides values that are used in the signaling. When the device starts, the conﬁguration
mechanism is run, which retrieves the conﬁguration data; then, SIP registration occurs using the
values from the conﬁguration. After registration, calls may be sent or received by the RUE device.

5.1.  Registration

MUST

 register with a SIP registrar, following

The RUE
an account with. If the conﬁguration (see Section 9.2) contains multiple "outbound-proxies" in
"RueConﬁgurationData", then the RUE
multiple ﬂows.

 use them as speciﬁed in

 to establish

[RFC5626]

[RFC5626]

[RFC3261]

 and

MUST

, at a provider it has

The Request-URI for the REGISTER request
conﬁguration. The To URI and From URI

MUST

MUST

 contain the "provider-domain" from the
 be identical URIs and formatted as follows:

•

if "user-name" is provided: "username@provider-domain"

•

if "user-name" is not provided: as speciﬁed in Section 5.4, use "phone-number" and "provider-
domain" from the conﬁguration

The RUE determines the URI to resolve by initially determining if one or more "outbound-proxies"
are conﬁgured. If they are conﬁgured, the URI will be that of one of the "outbound-proxies". If no
"outbound-proxies" are conﬁgured, the URI will be the Request-URI from the REGISTER request.
The RUE extracts the domain from that URI and consults the DNS record for that domain. The
DNS entry
MUST
p1.red.example.net" could return:

 specify TLS as the preferred transport for SIP. For example, a DNS NAPTR query for "sip:

 contain NAPTR records conforming to

. One of those NAPTR records

[RFC3263]

MUST

IN NAPTR 50  50 "s" "SIPS+D2T" "" _sips._tcp.p1.red.example.net
IN NAPTR 90  50 "s" "SIP+D2T"  "" _sip._tcp.p1.red.example.net

If the RUE receives a 439 (First Hop Lacks Outbound Support) response to a REGISTER request, it
MUST

 reattempt registration without using the outbound mechanism.

MAY

The registrar
MUST
user-name is not provided, and "sip-password". This "user-name"/"sip-password" combination

 come from the conﬁguration in Section 9.2: "user-name" if provided or "phone-number" if

 authenticate the RUE using SIP digest authentication. The credentials to be used

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

 be the same as that used for other purposes, except as expressly described below,

SHOULD NOT
such as retrieving the RUE conﬁguration or logging into the provider's customer service portal.
[RFC8760] MUST
supported.

 be supported by all implementations, and SHA-512 digest algorithms

MUST

 be

If the registration request fails with an indication that credentials from the conﬁguration are
 retrieve a fresh version of the conﬁguration. If credentials from a
invalid, then the RUE
freshly retrieved conﬁguration are found to be invalid, then the RUE
 cease attempts to
register and inform the RUE user of the problem.

MUST

MUST

Support for multiple simultaneous registrations with multiple providers by the RUE is
for the RUE (and providers do not need any support for this option).

OPTIONAL

 be permitted by the provider. The provider

Multiple simultaneous RUE SIP registrations from diﬀerent RUE devices with the same SIP URI
 limit the total number of simultaneous
SHOULD
registrations. When a new registration request is received that results in exceeding the limit on
 then prematurely terminate another registration;
simultaneous registrations, the provider
however, it

 do this if it would disconnect an active call.

SHOULD NOT

MAY

MAY

If a provider prematurely terminates a registration to reduce the total number of concurrent
registrations with the same URI, it
 take some action to prevent the aﬀected RUE from
automatically re-registering and re-triggering the condition.

SHOULD

5.2.  Session Establishment

5.2.1.  Normal Call Origination

After initial SIP registration, the RUE adheres to SIP
[RFC3665]

.

[RFC3261]

 basic call ﬂows, as documented in

A RUE device

MUST

 route all outbound calls through an outbound proxy if conﬁgured.

The SIP URIs in the To ﬁeld and the Request-URI
using the destination phone number or as SIP URIs as provided in the conﬁguration (Section 9.2).
The domain ﬁeld of the URIs
 be the "provider-domain" from the conﬁguration (e.g., sip:
+15551234567@red.example.com;user=phone), except that an anonymous call would not use the
provider domain.

 be formatted as speciﬁed in Section 5.4

SHOULD

MUST

Anonymous calls
[RFC3323]

.

MUST

 be supported by all implementations. An anonymous call is signaled per

MUST

The From URI
"provider-domain" from the conﬁguration. It
conﬁguration when present. (Please refer to Section 9.2.)

SHOULD

 be formatted as speciﬁed in Section 5.4, using the "phone-number" and

 also contain the display-name from the

Negotiated media

MUST

 follow the requirements speciﬁed in Section 6 of this document.

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

To allow time for an unanswered call to time out and direct it to a videomail server, the User
Agent Client
3 minutes.

 impose a time limit less than the default SIP INVITE transaction timeout of

MUST NOT

5.2.2.  Dial-Around Origination

Providers and RUE devices

MUST

 support both one-stage and two-stage dial-around.

Outbound dial-around calls allow a RUE user to select any provider to provide interpreting
services for any call. "Two-stage" dial-around calls involve the RUE calling a telephone number
that reaches the dial-around provider and using signing or dual-tone multi-frequency (DTMF) to
provide the called party's telephone number. In two-stage dial-around, the To URI is the "front-
door" URI (see Section 9.2) in "ProviderConﬁgurationData" of the dial-around provider. The RUE
Provider Selection service (Section 9.1) can be used by the RUE to obtain a list of providers; then,
the provider conﬁguration (Section 9.2.1) can be used to ﬁnd the front-door URI for each of these
providers.

One-stage dial-around is a method where the called party's telephone number is provided in the
To URI and the Request-URI, using the domain of the dial-around provider.

For one-stage dial-around, the RUE
exception: the domain part of the SIP URIs in the To ﬁeld and the Request-URI
domain of the dial-around provider discovered as described in Section 9.1.

MUST

 follow the procedures in Section 5.2.1 with the following

MUST

 be the

The following is a partial example of a one-stage dial-around call from VRS user +1-555-222-0001
hosted by red.example.com to a hearing user +1-555-123-4567 using dial-around to
green.example.com for the relay service. Only important details of the messages are shown, and
many header ﬁelds have been omitted:

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

  ,-+-.        ,----+----.    ,-----+-----.
  |RUE|        |Default  |    |Dial-Around|
  |   |        |Provider |    | Provider  |
  `-+-'        `----+----'    `-----+-----'
    |               |               |
    | [1] INVITE    |               |
    |-------------->| [2] INVITE    |
    |               |-------------->|

  Message Details:

  [1] INVITE Rue -> Default Provider

  INVITE sip:+15551234567@green.example.net;user=phone SIP/2.0
  To: <sip:+15551234567@green.example.net;user=phone>
  From: "Bob Smith" <sip:+15552220001@red.example.net;user=phone>

  [2] INVITE Default Provider -> Dial-Around Provider

  INVITE sip:+15551234567@green.example.net;user=phone SIP/2.0
  To: <sip:+15551234567@green.example.net;user=phone>
  From: "Bob Smith" sip:+15552220001@red.example.net;user=phone
  P-Asserted-Identity: sip:+15552220001@red.example.net

Figure 1: One-Stage Dial-Around

5.2.3.  RUE Contact Information

MAY

 be an HTTPS URI or Content-ID URL. The latter is deﬁned by

To identify the owner of a RUE, the initial INVITE for a call from a RUE, or the 200 OK the RUE uses
to accept a call, identiﬁes the owner by sending a Call-Info header ﬁeld with a purpose parameter
of "rue-owner". The URI
[RFC2392]
 to locate message body parts. This URI type is present in a SIP message to convey the
RUE ownership information as a MIME body. The form of the RUE ownership information is an
xCard
 for an example of using content indirection URLs in
SIP messages. Note that use of the content indirection URL usually implies multiple message
bodies ("mime/multipart"). The RUE owner is the entity that has local control over the device that
is not necessarily the legal owner of the equipment. It often is the user, but that is not necessarily
true. While no minimum ﬁelds in the xCard are speciﬁed, the name, address, phone number, and
email address of the RUE owner are expected to be supplied.

. Please refer to

[RFC6442]

[RFC6351]

5.2.4.  Incoming Calls

The RUE

MUST

 only accept inbound calls sent to it by a proxy mentioned in the conﬁguration.

If multiple simultaneous RUE SIP registrations from diﬀerent RUE devices with the same SIP URI
exist, the provider
 parallel fork the call to all registered RUEs so that they ring at the same
time. The ﬁrst RUE to reply with a 200 OK answers the call, and the provider
call branches using a CANCEL request.

 cancel other

MUST

MUST

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

5.2.5.  Emergency Calls

MUST

[RFC6881]

 conform to

Implementations
device is unable to determine its own location, it
Geolocation header ﬁeld and without a Route header ﬁeld (since it would be unable to query the
[RFC6881]
Location-to-Service Translation (LoST) server for a route, per
arrives at the provider without a Geolocation header ﬁeld, the provider
adding the Geolocation header ﬁeld and
that location.

 for handling of emergency calls, except that if the
 send the emergency call without a

 supply location by
 supply the route by querying the LoST server with

). If an emergency call
MUST

MUST

MAY

MAY

[RFC6881]

 be extracted from the

If the emergency call is to be handled using existing country-speciﬁc procedures, the provider is
responsible for modifying the INVITE to conform to the country-speciﬁc requirements. In this
case, the location
propagate it to the appropriate country-speciﬁc entities. If the conﬁguration speciﬁes it, an
implementation of a RUE device
the REGISTER request. If implemented, users
procedures might require the location to be preloaded in some entity prior to placing an
emergency call; however, the RUE may have a more accurate and timely device location than the
manual, preloaded entry. That information
country-speciﬁc entities. Re-registration
rate of re-registration is limited if the device is moving.

 be used to populate the location to appropriate
 be used to update the location, so long as the

 send a Geolocation header ﬁeld containing its location in

 be oﬀered an opt-out. Country-speciﬁc

 conformant INVITE and used to

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

MAY

Implementations
provider information, device information, and owner/subscriber information blocks.

 implement additional data

. RUE devices

[RFC7852]

MUST

MUST

 implement data

5.3.  Mid-Call Signaling

MUST

 support re-INVITE to renegotiate media session parameters (among other

Implementations
uses). Per Section 6.8, implementations
refresh for devices that do not support SRTCP (please refer to Section 6.1). Implementations
support an in-dialog REFER (as described in
support for norefersub per
transfer.

) with the Replaces header ﬁeld

 be able to support an INFO message for full frame

 and updated by

, and including

 to enable call

[RFC7647]

[RFC4488]

[RFC3515]

[RFC3891]

MUST

MUST

5.4.  URI Representation of Phone Numbers

SIP URIs constructed from non-URI sources (dial strings) and sent to SIP proxies by the RUE
MUST
be represented as follows, depending on whether they can be represented as an E.164 number. In
this section, "expressed as an E.164 number" includes numbers, such as toll-free numbers that are
not actually E.164 numbers but have the same format.

A dial string that can be expressed as an E.164 phone number
with a URI ";user=phone" tag. The user part of the URI
number", as deﬁned in
characters, as deﬁned in

. The user part

[RFC3966]

[RFC3966]

MUST NOT

MUST

.

MUST

 be represented as a SIP URI

 be in conformance with "global-

 contain any "visual-separator"

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

Dial strings that cannot be expressed as E.164 numbers
speciﬁed by

, e.g., sip:411@red.example.net;user=dialstring.

[RFC4967]

MUST

 be represented as dialstring URIs, as

The domain part of relay service URIs and User Address of Records (AoR)
[RFC3263]

) to globally routable IPv4 and/or IPv6 addresses.

MUST

 resolve (per

5.5.  Transport

Implementations
channel, which this speciﬁcation does not use. See Section 6.2 for how RUE supports real-time text
without the data channel.

, except for its guidance on the WebRTC data

 conform to

[RFC8835]

MUST

Implementations

MUST

 support SIP outbound

[RFC5626]

 (please also refer to Section 5.1).

6.  Media

This speciﬁcation adopts the media speciﬁcations for WebRTC
how interactive media communications may be established using a browser as a client, this
speciﬁcation assumes a normal SIP call. Various RTPs, RTCPs, SDPs, and speciﬁc media
requirements speciﬁed for WebRTC are adopted for this document. Explicit requirements from
the WebRTC suite of documents are described below .

[RFC8825]

. Where WebRTC deﬁnes

To use WebRTC with this document, a gateway that presents a WebRTC server interface towards a
browser and a RUE client interface towards a provider is assumed. The gateway would interwork
signaling and, as noted below, interwork at least any real-time text media in order to allow a
standard browser-based WebRTC client to be a VRS client. The combination of the browser client
and the gateway would be a RUE user. This document does not specify the gateway.

The following sections specify the WebRTC documents to which conformance is required.
"Mandatory to Implement" means a conforming implementation
 implement the speciﬁed
capability. It does not mean that the capability must be used in every session. For example, Opus
is a Mandatory-to-Implement audio codec, and all conforming implementations must support
Opus. However, an implementation presenting a call across the RUE interface (where the call
originates in the PSTN or an older, non-RUE-compatible device, which only oﬀers G.711 audio)
does not need to include the Opus codec in the oﬀer, since it cannot be used with that call.
Conformance to this document allows end-to-end RTCP and media congestion control for audio
and video.

MUST

6.1.  SRTP and SRTCP

Implementations
Implementations

MUST

MUST

 support
 conform to

Section 6.4 of [RFC8827]

.

[RFC8834]

, except that MediaStreamTracks are not used.

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

6.2.  Text-Based Communication

MUST

Implementations
and two redundant generations
interval. Implementations
MUST
[RFC4103]
be required to interwork real-time text in the data channel of WebRTC to

 support real-time text
MUST
 support

 is not how real-time text is transmitted in WebRTC, and some form of transcoder would
 real-time text.

 via T.140 media. One original
 be transmitted and supported with a 300 ms transmission

, especially for emergency calls. Note that

[RFC4102] [RFC4103]

[RFC9071]

[RFC4103]

Transport of T.140 real-time text in WebRTC is speciﬁed in
channel.
[RFC8865]
should operate. It is
communication with browser-based WebRTC implementations. Implementations
[RFC9071]

[RFC8865]
 also has some advice on how gateways between
RECOMMENDED

[RFC8865]
, including multiparty support, be used for

, using the WebRTC data
 and
[RFC4103]

[RFC8865]

 that

MUST

.

 support

6.3.  Video

MUST

 conform to

Implementations
speciﬁed in
device and providers. This is because backwards compatibility is desirable, and older devices do
not support VP8.

, is Mandatory to Implement, and VP8 support is

 with the following exceptions: only H.264, as

 at both the

[RFC7742]

[RFC7742]

OPTIONAL

6.4.  Audio

Implementations

MUST

 conform to

[RFC7874]

.

6.5.  DTMF Digits

Implementations
support conveying event codes 0 through 11 (DTMF digits "0"-"9", "*","#") deﬁned in Table 7 of
[RFC4733]

 support the "audio/telephone-event"

. Handling of other tones is

 media type. They

[RFC4733]

OPTIONAL

MUST

.

MUST

6.6.  Session Description Protocol

The SDP oﬀers and answers
 conform to the SDP rules in
MUST
interface uses SIP transport for SDP. The SDP for real-time text
type

[RFC4103]

.

[RFC8829]
MUST

 except that the RUE

 specify the T.140 payload

6.7.  Privacy

MUST

 provide for user privacy by implementing a local one-way mute, without signaling,

The RUE
for both audio and video. However, RUE
bindings) by periodically sending media packets on all active media sessions containing silence,
.
comfort noise, blank screen, etc., per

 maintain any states in the network (e.g., NAT

[RFC6263]

MUST

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

6.8.  Negative Acknowledgement, Picture Loss Indicator, and Full
Intraframe Request Features

 be implemented. Availability of these features

The NACK, FIR, and Picture Loss Indicator (PLI) features, as described in
MUST
value. NACK should be used when negotiated and conditions warrant its use and the other end
supports it. Signaling picture losses as a PLI should be preferred. FIR should be used only in
situations where not sending a decoder refresh point would render the video unusable for the
users, as per

[RFC4585]
[RFC5104]
,
 be announced with the "ccm" feedback

Section 4.3.1.2 of [RFC5104]

 and

MUST

.

For backwards compatibility with calling devices that do not support the foregoing methods,
implementations
Fast Update messages according to

 implement SIP INFO messages to send and receive XML-encoded Picture

[RFC5168]

MUST

.

7.  Contacts

7.1.  CardDAV Login and Synchronization

Support of vCard Extensions to WebDAV (CardDAV) by providers is

OPTIONAL

.

MUST

 and providers

The RUE
RUE endpoint and one maintained by the user's VRS provider using CardDAV
[RFC6764]

MAY

.

 be able to synchronize the user's contact directory between the

[RFC6352]

The conﬁguration (see Section 9.2) RueConﬁgurationData
"carddav-domain" identifying a CardDAV server and address book for this account, plus an
optional "carddav-password".

 supply a "carddav-username" and

MAY

To access the CardDAV server and address book, the RUE
using the conﬁgured carddav-username and carddav-domain in place of an email address. If the
request triggers a challenge for digest authentication credentials, the RUE
matching carddav-username and carddav-password from the conﬁguration. If no carddav-
username and carddav-password are conﬁgured, the RUE
password from the conﬁguration. If the SIP credentials fail, the RUE

 use the SIP user-name and sip-

Section 6 of [RFC6764]

 continue using

 query the user.

 follow

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

,

Synchronization using CardDAV
handling of asynchronous adds, changes, and deletes at either end of the transport channel.

 be a two-way synchronization service, with proper

MUST

The RUE

MAY

 support other CardDAV services.

7.2.  Contacts Import/Export Service

Implementations
format.

MUST

 be able to export/import the list of contacts in xCard

[RFC6351]

 XML

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

The RUE accesses this service via the "contacts-uri" in the conﬁguration. The URL
identify a web server resource that imports/exports contact lists for authorized users.

MUST

 resolve to

The RUE stores/retrieves the contact list (address book) by issuing an HTTPS POST or GET request.
If the request triggers a challenge for digest authentication credentials, the RUE
continue using the "contacts-username" and "contacts-password" from the conﬁguration. If no
contacts-username is conﬁgured, the SIP user-name from the conﬁguration is used; if the SIP
user-name is not conﬁgured, the phone-number is used. If user-name or phone-number is used,
the sip-password is used to authenticate to the contact list server.

 attempt to

MUST

8.  Video Mail

Support for video mail includes a retrieval mechanism and a Message-Waiting Indicator (MWI).
Message storage is not speciﬁed by this document. RUE devices
 support message retrieval
using a SIP call to a speciﬁed SIP URI using DTMF to manage the mailbox, as well as a browser-
based interface reached at a speciﬁed HTTPS URI. If a provider supports video mail, at least one
of these mechanisms
the URI to reach the retrieval interface is obtained.

 support both. See Section 9.2 for how

 be supported. RUE devices

MUST

MUST

MUST

Implementations
MUST
speciﬁed in the conﬁguration. Providers
 support MWI.
devices

MUST

 support subscriptions to "message-summary" events

[RFC3842]

 to the URI

MUST

 support MWI if they support video mail. RUE

The "videomail" and "mwi" properties in the conﬁguration (see RueConﬁgurationData in Section
9.2.2) give the URIs for message retrieval and "message-summary" subscription.

In notiﬁcation bodies, if detailed message summaries are available, messages with video
reported using "message-context-class multimedia-message", as deﬁned in

[RFC3458]

 .

MUST

 be

9.  Provisioning and Provider Selection

To simplify how users interact with RUE devices, the RUE interface separates provisioning into
two parts. One provides a directory of providers so that a user interface can allow easy provider
selection either for registering or for dial-around. The other provides conﬁguration data for the
device for each provider.

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

9.1.  RUE Provider Selection

MAY

To allow the user to select a relay service, the RUE
 at any time obtain (typically on startup) a
list of providers that provide service in a country. IANA has established a registry that contains a
two-letter country code and a list entry point string (see Section 10.1). The entry point, when used
with the following OpenAPI interface, returns a list of provider names for a country code suitable
for display, with a corresponding entry point to obtain information about that provider. No
mechanism to determine the country where the RUE is located is speciﬁed in this document.
Typically, the country is the home country of the user but may be a local country while traveling.
Some countries allow support from their home country when traveling abroad. Regardless, the
RUE device will need to allow the user to choose the country.

Each country that supports VRS using this speciﬁcation
document does not specify who maintains the list. Some possibilities are a regulator or an entity
designated by a regulator, an agreement among providers to provide the list, or a user group.

 support the provider list. This

MAY

The interface to obtain the list of providers is described by an OpenAPI
description. In that interface description, the "servers" component includes an occurrence of
"localhost". The value from the registry of the "list entry point" string for the desired country is
substituted for "localhost" in the "servers" component to obtain the server URI preﬁx of the
interface to be used to obtain the list of providers for that country. The "Providers" path then
speciﬁes the rest of the URI used to obtain the list. For example, if the list entryPoint is
"example.com/api", the provider list would be obtained from https://example.com/api/rum/v1/
Providers.

[OpenAPI]

 interface

The V1.0 "ProviderList" is a JSON object consisting of an array where each entry describes one
provider. Each entry consists of the following items:

•

name: This parameter contains the text label identifying the provider and is meant to be
displayed to the human VRS user.

•

providerEntryPoint: A string used for conﬁguration purposes by the RUE (as discussed in
Section 9.2). The string
 include other URI path elements
after the domain.

 start with a domain but

MUST

MAY

The VRS user interacts with the RUE to select from the provider list one or more providers with
whom the user has already established an account, wishes to establish an account, or wishes to
use the provider for a one-stage dial-around.

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

{
  "providers": [
    {
      "name": "Red",
      "entryPoint": "red.example.net"
    },
    {
      "name": "Green",
      "entryPoint": "green.example.net"
    },
    {
      "name": "Blue",
      "entryPoint": "blue.example.net"
    }
  ]
}

Figure 2: Example of a ProviderList JSON Object

9.2.  RUE Conﬁguration Service

A RUE device may retrieve a provider conﬁguration using a simple HTTPs web service. There are
two entry points. One is used without user credentials, and the response includes conﬁguration
data for new user signup and dial-around. The other uses a locally stored username and password
that results from a new user signup to authenticate to the interface and returns conﬁguration
data for the RUE.

The interface to obtain conﬁguration data is described by an OpenAPI
description. In that interface description, the "servers" component string includes an occurrence
of "localhost". The entry point string obtained from the provider list (Section 9.1) is substituted for
"localhost" to obtain the server preﬁx of the interface. The path then speciﬁes the rest of the URI
used to obtain the list. For example, if the entryPoint from the provider list is "red.example.net",
the provider conﬁguration would be obtained from https://red.example.net/rum/V1/
ProviderConﬁg and the RUE conﬁguration would be obtained from https://red.example.net/rum/
V1/RueConﬁg.

[OpenAPI]

 interface

In both the queries, an optional parameter may be provided to the interface, which is an API Key
(apiKey). The implementation
implementation. The method used to obtain the apiKey is not speciﬁed in this document. The
provider
recognize.

 refuse to provide service to an implementation presenting an apiKey it does not

 have an apiKey obtained from the provider and speciﬁc to the

MAY

MAY

Also in both queries, the RUE device provides a client-provided, required parameter, which
contains an instance identiﬁer (instanceId). This parameter
this instance (same implementation on same device) queries the interface. This
the provider, for example, to associate a location with the instance for emergency calls. This
should be globally unique. A Universally Unique Identiﬁer (UUID) is suggested.

 be the same value each time
 be used by

MUST

MAY

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

For example, a query for the RUE conﬁguration could be https://red.example.net/rum/V1/
RueConﬁg?apiKey="t65667Ajjss90uuuDisKt8999"&instanceId="5595b5a3-0687-4b8e-9913-
a7f2a04fb7bd"

The data returned is a JSON object consisting of key/value conﬁguration parameters to be used by
the RUE.

The conﬁguration data payload includes the following data items. Items not noted as (
are

. If other unexpected items are found, they

 be ignored.

REQUIRED

MUST

OPTIONAL

)

9.2.1.  Provider Conﬁguration

•

signup: (
◦

OPTIONAL

) an array of JSON objects consisting of:

language: entry from the IANA "Language Subtag Registry" (
assignments/language-subtag-registry

). Normally, this would be a written language tag.

https://www.iana.org/

◦

uri: a URI to the website for creating a new account in the supported language. The new
user signup URI may only initiate creation of a new account. Various vetting, approval, and
other processes may be needed, which could take time, before the account is established.
The result of creating a new account would be account credentials (e.g., username and
password), which would be manually entered into the RUE device that forms the
authentication parameters for the RUE conﬁguration service described below in Section
9.2.2.

•

dial-around: an array of JSON objects consisting of:
◦

language: entry from the IANA "Language Subtag Registry". Normally, this would be a sign
language tag.

◦

front-door: a URI to a queue of interpreters supporting the speciﬁed language for a two-
stage dial-around.

◦

oneStage: a URI that can be used with a one-stage dial-around (Section 5.2.2) using an
interpreter supporting the speciﬁed language.

•

helpDesk: (

OPTIONAL

) an array of JSON objects consisting of:

◦

language: entry from the IANA "Language Subtag Registry". Normally, this would be a sign
language tag; although, it could be a written language tag if the help desk only supports a
chat interface.

◦

uri: a URI that reaches a help desk for callers supporting the speciﬁed language. The URI
MAY
provided with a browser interface.

 be a SIP URI for help provided with a SIP call or

 be an HTTPS URI for help

MAY

A list is speciﬁed so that the provider can oﬀer multiple choices to users for language and
interface styles.

9.2.2.  RUE Conﬁguration

•

OPTIONAL

lifetime: (
values. Values may not be valid when lifetime expires. If the RUE caches conﬁguration values,
 cryptographically protect them against unauthorized disclosure (e.g., by other
it

) speciﬁes how long (in seconds) the RUE

 cache the conﬁguration

MUST

MAY

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

applications on the platform the RUE is built on). The RUE
conﬁguration before the lifetime expires or as soon as possible after it expires. The lifetime is
not guaranteed, i.e., the conﬁguration may change before the lifetime value expires. In that
case, the provider
 indicate this by generating authorization challenges to requests and/
or prematurely terminating a registration. Emergency calls
speciﬁed, the RUE

 fetch new conﬁguration data every time it starts.

 continue to work. If not

 retrieve a fresh copy of the

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

MAY

•

OPTIONAL

) a password used for SIP, STUN, and TURN authentication. The RUE

sip-password: (
device retains this data, which it
disclosure (e.g., by other applications on the platform the RUE is built on). If it is not supplied
but was supplied on a prior invocation of this interface, the most recently supplied password
 be used. If it was never supplied, the password used to authenticate to the conﬁguration
MUST
service is used for SIP, as well as STUN and TURN servers mentioned in this conﬁguration.

 cryptographically protect against unauthorized

MUST

•

phone-number: (
) the telephone number (in E.164 format) assigned to this
subscriber. This becomes the user portion of the SIP URI identifying the subscriber.

REQUIRED

•

user-name: (
OPTIONAL
phone-number is used.

) a username used for authenticating to the provider. If not provided,

•

display-name: (

OPTIONAL

) a human-readable display name for the subscriber.

•

provider-domain: (
of the SIP URI identifying the subscriber.

REQUIRED

) the domain for the provider. This becomes the server portion

•

outbound-proxies: (
requests to the provider.

OPTIONAL

) an array of URIs of SIP proxies to be used when sending

•

OPTIONAL

mwi: (
events for this subscriber.

) a URI identifying a SIP event server that generates "message-summary"

•

videomail: (

OPTIONAL

) a SIP or HTTPS URI that can be used to retrieve video mail messages.

•

OPTIONAL

) an HTTPS URI ("contacts-uri"), (

) "contacts-username", and
contacts: (
"contacts-password" that may be used to export (retrieve) the subscriber's complete contact
list managed by the provider. At least the URI
If contact-username and contacts-password are not supplied, the sip credentials are used. If
the contacts-username is provided, contacts-password
password is provided, contacts-username

MUST
 be provided.

 be provided if the subscriber has contacts.

 be provided. If contacts-

OPTIONAL

MUST

MUST

•

OPTIONAL

) an address ("carddav-domain"), (

carddav: (
"carddav-password" identifying a "CardDAV" server and account that can be used to
synchronize the RUE's contact list with the contact list managed by the provider. If carddav-
username and carddav-password are not supplied, the sip credentials are used. If the
carddav-username is provided, carddav-password
provided, carddav-username

 be provided. If carddav-password is

) "carddav-username", and

 be provided.

OPTIONAL

MUST

MUST

•

sendLocationWithRegistration: (
ﬁeld with REGISTER; false if it should not. Defaults to false if not present.

OPTIONAL

) true if the RUE should send a Geolocation header

•

OPTIONAL

) an array of server types and URLs identifying STUN and TURN

ice-servers: (
servers available for use by the RUE for establishing media streams in calls via the provider.
If the same URL provides both STUN and TURN services, it
diﬀerent server types.

 be listed twice, each with

MUST

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

9.2.3.  Versions

Both web services also have a simple version mechanism that returns a list of versions of the web
service it supports. This document describes version 1.0. Versions are displayed as a major
version, followed by a period ".", followed by a minor version, where the major and minor
versions are integers. A backwards compatible change within a major version
only the minor version number. A non-backwards, compatible change
major version number. Backwards compatibility applies to both the server and the client. Either
may have any higher or lower minor revision and interoperate with its counterpart with the same
major version. To achieve backwards compatibility, implementations
members they do not implement. Minor version deﬁnitions
members of existing objects, and non-mandatory-to-use functions and
change any objects, members of objects, or functions. This means an implementation of a
speciﬁc major version and minor version is backwards compatible with all minor versions of the
major version. The version mechanism returns an array of supported versions, one for each
major version supported, with the minor version listed being the highest-supported minor
version.

 ignore any object
 only add objects, optional

 increment the

 increment

SHALL NOT

 delete or

SHALL

MUST

MUST

MAY

Unless the per-country provider list service is operated by a provider at the same base URI as that
provider's conﬁguration service, the version of the conﬁguration service
the version of the provider list service.

 be diﬀerent from

MAY

{
  "versions": [
    {
     "major": 1,
     "minor": 6
    },
    {
     "major": 2,
     "minor": 13
    },
    {
     "major": 3,
     "minor": 2
    }
  ]
}

Figure 3: Example of a Version JSON Object

9.2.4.  Examples

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

{
  "signUp": [
     { "language" : "en", "uri" : "https:hello-en.example.net"},
     { "language" : "es", "uri" : "https:hello-es.example.net"} ] ,
  "dial-around": [
     { "language" : "en", "front-door" : "sip:fd-en.example.net",
          "oneStage" : "sip:1stg-eng.example.com" } ,
     { "language" : "es", "front-door" : "sip:fd-es.example.net",
          "oneStage" : "sip:1stg-spn.example.com" } ] ,
  "helpDesk": [
     { "language" : "en", "uri" : "sip:help-en.example.net"} ,
     { "language" : "es", "uri" : "sip:help-es.example.net"} ]
}

Figure 4: Example JSON Provider Conﬁguration Payload

{
  "lifetime": 86400,
  "display-name" : "Bob Smith",
  "phone-number": "+15551234567",
  "provider-domain": "red.example.net",
  "outbound-proxies": [
    "sip:p1.red.example.net",
    "sip:p2.red.example.net" ],
  "mwi": "sip:+15551234567@red.example.net;user=phone",
  "videomail": "sip:+15551234567@vm.red.example.net;user=phone",
  "contacts": {
    "contacts-uri":
       "https://red.example.net:443/c/3617b719-2c3a-46f4-9c13",
    "contacts-username": "bob",
    "contacts-password": "XhOT4ch@ZEi&3u2xEYQNMO^5UGb"
  },
  "carddav": {
     "carddav-domain": "carddav.example.com",
     "carddav-username": "bob",
     "carddav-password": "sj887%dd*jJty%87hyys5hHT"
  },
  "sendLocationWithRegistration": false,
  "ice-servers": [
     {"stun":"stun.red.example.com:19302" },
     {"turn":"turn.red.example.com:3478"}
  ]
}

Figure 5: Example JSON RUE Conﬁguration Payload

9.2.5.  Using the Provider Selection and RUE Conﬁguration Services Together

One way to use these two services is:

1.

At startup, the RUE retrieves the provider list for the country it is located in.

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

2.

For each provider in the list:
◦

If the RUE does not have credentials for that provider, if requested by the user, use the
ProviderConﬁg path without credentials to obtain signup, dial-around, and help desk
information.

◦

If the RUE has credentials for that provider, use the RueConﬁg path with the locally stored
credentials to conﬁgure the RUE for that provider.

9.3.  OpenAPI Interface Descriptions

The interfaces in Sections 9.1 and 9.2 are formally speciﬁed with OpenAPI 3.0
descriptions in YAML form.

[OpenAPI]

The OpenAPI description below is normative. If there is any conﬂict between the text or examples
and this section, the OpenAPI description takes precedence.

9.3.1.  Provider List

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

openapi: 3.0.1
info:
  title: RUM Provider List API
  version: "1.0"
servers:
  - url: https://localhost/rum/v1
paths:
  /Providers:
    get:
      summary: Get a list of providers and domains to get
               config data from
      operationId: GetProviderList
      responses:
        '200':
          description: List of providers for a country
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                $ref: '#/components/schemas/ProviderList'
  /Versions:
    servers:
      - url: https://localhost/rum
        description: Override base path for Versions query
    get:
      summary: Retrieves all supported versions
      operationId: RetrieveVersions
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Versions supported
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                $ref: '#/components/schemas/VersionsArray'
components:
  schemas:
    ProviderList:
      type: object
      required:
        - providers
      properties:
        providers:
          type: array
          items:
            type: object
            required:
              - name
              - providerEntryPoint
            properties:
              name:
                type: string
                description: Human-readable provider name
              providerEntryPoint:
                type: string
                description: Provider entry point for interface
    VersionsArray:
      type: object
      required:

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

        - versions
      properties:
        versions:
          type: array
          items:
            type: object
            required:
              - major
              - minor
            properties:
              major:
                type: integer
                format: int32
                description: Version major number
              minor:
                type: integer
                format: int32
                description: Version minor number

Figure 6: Provider List OpenAPI Description (RueProviderList.yaml)

9.3.2.  Conﬁguration

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

openapi: 3.0.1
info:
  title: RUM Configuration API
  version: "1.0"
servers:
  - url: https://localhost/rum/v1
paths:
  /ProviderConfig:
    get:
      summary: Configuration data for one provider
      operationId: GetProviderConfiguration
      parameters:
        - in: query
          name: apiKey
          schema:
            type: string
          description: API Key assigned to this implementation
        - in: query
          name: instanceId
          schema:
            type: string
          required: true
          description: Unique string for this implementation
                       on this device
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Configuration object
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                $ref:
                 '#/components/schemas/ProviderConfigurationData'
  /RueConfig:
    get:
      summary: Configuration data for one RUE
      operationId: GetRueConfiguration
      parameters:
        - in: query
          name: apiKey
          schema:
            type: string
          description: API Key assigned to this implementation
        - in: query
          name: instanceId
          schema:
            type: string
          required: true
          description: Unique string for this implementation
                       on this device
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Configuration object
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                $ref: '#/components/schemas/RueConfigurationData'
  /Versions:

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

    servers:
      - url: https://localhost/rum
        description: Override base path for Versions query
    get:
      summary: Retrieves all supported versions
      operationId: RetrieveVersions
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Versions supported
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                $ref: '#/components/schemas/VersionsArray'
components:
  schemas:
    ProviderConfigurationData:
      type: object
      required:
        - dial-around
      properties:
        signup:
          type: array
          items:
            type: object
            required:
              - language
              - uri
            properties:
              language:
                type: string
                description: Entry from IANA "Language Subtag
                  Registry"
              uri:
                type: string
                format: uri
                description: URI to signup website supporting
                  this language
        dial-around:
          type: array
          items:
            type: object
            required:
              - language
              - front-door
              - oneStage
            properties:
              language:
                type: string
                description: Entry from IANA "Language Subtag
                  Registry"
              front-door:
                type: string
                format: uri
                description: SIP URI for two-stage dial-around
              oneStage:
                type: string
                format: uri
                description: SIP URI for one-stage dial-around

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

        helpDesk:
          type: array
          items:
            type: object
            required:
              - language
              - uri
            properties:
              language:
                type: string
                description: Entry from IANA "Language Subtag
                   Registry"
              uri:
                type: string
                format: uri
                description: SIP URI of help desk supporting language
    RueConfigurationData:
      type: object
      required:
        - phone-number
        - provider-domain
      properties:
        lifetime:
          type: integer
          description: How long (in seconds) the RUE MAY cache the
                       configuration values
        sip-password:
          type: string
        phone-number:
          type: string
          description: Telephone number assigned this subscriber in
            E.164 format
        user-name:
          type: string
          description: A username assigned to this subscriber
        display-name:
          type: string
          description: Display name for the subscriber
        provider-domain:
          type: string
          description: Domain of the provider for this subscriber
        outbound-proxies:
          type: array
          items:
             type: string
             format: uri
             description: SIP URI of a proxy to be used when sending
                       requests to the provider
        mwi:
          type: string
          format: uri
          description: A URI identifying a SIP event server that
              generates "message-summary" events for this subscriber
        videomail:
          type: string
          format: uri
          description: An HTTPS or SIP URI that can be used to
                       retrieve video mail messages

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

        contacts:
          type: object
          description: Server and credentials for contact
             import/export
          required:
            - contacts-uri
          properties:
            contacts-uri:
              type: string
              format: uri
              description: An HTTPS URI that may be used to export
                (retrieve) the subscriber's complete contact list
                managed by the provider
            contacts-username:
              type: string
              description: Username for authentication with the
                CardDAV server.  Use SIP user-name if not provided
            contacts-password:
              type: string
              description: Password for authentication. Use provider
                sip-password if not provided
        carddav:
          type: object
          description: CardDAV server and user information that can
               be used to synchronize the RUE's contact list with
               the contact list managed by the provider
          required:
            - carddav-domain
          properties:
            carddav-domain:
              type: string
              description: CardDAV server address
            carddav-username:
              type: string
              description: Username for authentication with the
                 CardDAV server.  Use SIP user-name if not provided
            carddav-password:
              type: string
              description: Password for authentication to the CardDAV
                 server. Use provider sip-password if not provided
        sendLocationWithRegistration:
          type: boolean
          description: True if the RUE should send a Geolocation
               header field with REGISTER; false if it should not.
               Defaults to false if not present
        ice-servers:
          type: array
          items:
            type: object
            required:
              - server-type
              - uri
            properties:
              server-type:
                type: string
                description: Server type ("stun" or "turn")
              uri:
                type: string

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

                format: uri
                description: URIs identifying STUN and TURN servers
                  available for use by the RUE for establishing
                  media streams in calls via the provider
    VersionsArray:
      type: object
      required:
        - versions
      properties:
        versions:
          type: array
          items:
            type: object
            required:
              - major
              - minor
            properties:
              major:
                type: integer
                format: int32
                description: Version major number
              minor:
                type: integer
                format: int32
                description: Version minor number

Figure 7: Conﬁguration OpenAPI Description (RueConﬁguration.yaml)

10.  IANA Considerations

10.1.  RUE Provider List Registry

IANA has created the "RUE Provider List" registry. The registration policy is "Expert Review"
[RFC8126]
. A regulator operated or designated list interface operator is preferred. Otherwise,
evidence that the proposed list interface operator will provide a complete list of providers is
required to add the entry to the registry. Updates to the registry are permitted if the expert
determines that the proposed URI provides a more accurate list than the existing entry. Each
entry has two ﬁelds; values for both

 be provided when registering or updating an entry:

MUST

•

country code: a two-letter ISO93166 country code

•

list entry point: a string is used to compose the URI to the provider list interface for that
country

10.2.  Registration of Rue-Owner Value of the Purpose Parameter

This document deﬁnes the new predeﬁned value "rue-owner" for the "purpose" header ﬁeld
parameter of the Call-Info header ﬁeld. The use for rue-owner is deﬁned in Section 5.2.3. IANA has
added a reference to this document in the "Header Field Parameters and Parameter Values"
subregistry of the "Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Parameters" for the header ﬁeld "Call-Info"
and parameter name "purpose".

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

Header Field:

Call-Info

Parameter Name:

purpose

Predeﬁned Values:

Yes

11.  Security Considerations

The RUE is required to communicate with servers on public IP addresses and speciﬁc ports to
perform its required functions. If it is necessary for the RUE to function on a corporate or other
network that operates a default-deny ﬁrewall between the RUE and these services, the user must
arrange with their network manager for passage of traﬃc through such a ﬁrewall in accordance
with the protocols and associated SRV records as exposed by the provider. Because VRS providers
may use diﬀerent ports for diﬀerent services, these port numbers may diﬀer from provider to
provider.

This document requires implementation and use of a number of other speciﬁcations in order to
fulﬁll the RUE proﬁle; the security considerations described in those documents apply
accordingly to the RUE interactions.

When a CA participates in a conversation, they have access to the content of the conversation
even though it is nominally a conversation between the two endpoints. There is an expectation
that the CA will keep the communication contents in conﬁdence. This is usually deﬁned by
contractual or legal requirements.

Since diﬀerent providers (within a given country) may have diﬀerent policies, RUE
implementations
proceeding to actually register with any given provider.

 include a user interaction step to select from available providers before

MUST

12.  Normative References

[OpenAPI]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2392]

[RFC3261]

,

Miller, D. Whitlock, J. Gardiner, M. Ralphson, M. Ratovsky, R.
"OpenAPI Speciﬁcation v3.0.1"
v3.0.1>
.

, December 2017,

,

,

,

, and

U. Sarid
,

<https://spec.openapis.org/oas/

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
Levinson, E. "Content-ID and Message-ID Uniform Resource Locators" RFC 2392
DOI 10.17487/RFC2392

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2392>

, August 1998,

,

,

,
,
Rosenberg, J. Schulzrinne, H. Camarillo, G. Johnston, A. Peterson, J. Sparks, R.
, and
Handley, M.
10.17487/RFC3261

,
,
E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
, June 2002,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,

,

,

,

,

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

[RFC3263]

[RFC3264]

[RFC3311]

[RFC3323]

[RFC3326]

[RFC3327]

[RFC3458]

[RFC3515]

[RFC3605]

[RFC3840]

[RFC3842]

[RFC3891]

[RFC3892]

 and

Rosenberg, J.
Servers" RFC 3263 DOI 10.17487/RFC3263
info/rfc3263>
.

H. Schulzrinne "Session Initiation Protocol (SIP): Locating SIP
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
,

, June 2002,

,

,

 and

Rosenberg, J.
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>
.

H. Schulzrinne "An Oﬀer/Answer Model with Session

, June 2002,

,

,

,

<https://

Rosenberg, J. "The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) UPDATE Method" RFC 3311
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3311>
DOI 10.17487/RFC3311
.

, October 2002,

,

,

,

Peterson, J. "A Privacy Mechanism for the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC
3323 DOI 10.17487/RFC3323
,
rfc3323>
.

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2002,

,

Schulzrinne, H. Oran, D.
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3326 DOI 10.17487/RFC3326
,
2002,

G. Camarillo "The Reason Header Field for the
, December

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3326>
.

, and

,
,

 and

B. Hoeneisen "Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Extension Header
Willis, D.
Field for Registering Non-Adjacent Contacts" RFC 3327 DOI 10.17487/RFC3327
,
,
December 2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3327>
.

,

,

,
Burger, E. Candell, E. Eliot, C.
,
RFC 3458 DOI 10.17487/RFC3458
.
rfc3458>

,

, and

,
G. Klyne "Message Context for Internet Mail"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2003,

,

Sparks, R. "The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Refer Method" RFC 3515 DOI
10.17487/RFC3515

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3515>

, April 2003,

,

,

,

,

Huitema, C. "Real Time Control Protocol (RTCP) attribute in Session Description
<https://www.rfc-
Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3605 DOI 10.17487/RFC3605
.
editor.org/info/rfc3605>

, October 2003,

,

,

,

Rosenberg, J. Schulzrinne, H.
in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3840 DOI 10.17487/RFC3840
2004,

P. Kyzivat "Indicating User Agent Capabilities
, August

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3840>

, and

,

,

,

,

Mahy, R. "A Message Summary and Message Waiting Indication Event Package
, August
,
for the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3842 DOI 10.17487/RFC3842
2004,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3842>

,

,
, and
Mahy, R. Biggs, B.
,
,
Header" RFC 3891 DOI 10.17487/RFC3891
.
editor.org/info/rfc3891>

,

R. Dean "The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) "Replaces"

, September 2004,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Sparks, R. "The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Referred-By Mechanism" RFC
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
3892 DOI 10.17487/RFC3892
.
rfc3892>

, September 2004,

,

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

[RFC3960]

[RFC3966]

[RFC4102]

[RFC4103]

[RFC4488]

[RFC4585]

[RFC4733]

[RFC4967]

[RFC5104]

[RFC5168]

[RFC5393]

[RFC5626]

[RFC5658]

 and

Camarillo, G.
the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3960 DOI 10.17487/RFC3960
2004,

H. Schulzrinne "Early Media and Ringing Tone Generation in
, December

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3960>
.

,

,

Schulzrinne, H. "The tel URI for Telephone Numbers" RFC 3966 DOI 10.17487/
RFC3966

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3966>
.

, December 2004,

,

,

,

,
Jones, P. "Registration of the text/red MIME Sub-Type" RFC 4102 DOI 10.17487/
, June 2005,
RFC4102

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4102>

,

,

 and
Hellstrom, G.
10.17487/RFC4103

P. Jones "RTP Payload for Text Conversation" RFC 4103 DOI
, June 2005,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4103>

,

,

,

,

Levin, O. "Suppression of Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) REFER Method
,
Implicit Subscription" RFC 4488 DOI 10.17487/RFC4488
<https://
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4488>

, May 2006,

,

,

,

Ott, J. Wenger, S. Sato, N. Burmeister, C.
Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" RFC
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4585>
4585 DOI 10.17487/RFC4585

J. Rey "Extended RTP Proﬁle for

, July 2006,

, and

,

,

,

,

 and

Schulzrinne, H.
,
and Telephony Signals" RFC 4733 DOI 10.17487/RFC4733
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4733>

,

,

T. Taylor "RTP Payload for DTMF Digits, Telephony Tones,

, December 2006,

<https://

,

Rosen, B. "Dial String Parameter for the Session Initiation Protocol Uniform
Resource Identiﬁer" RFC 4967 DOI 10.17487/RFC4967
.
editor.org/info/rfc4967>

, July 2007,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Wenger, S. Chandra, U. Westerlund, M.
in the RTP Audio-Visual Proﬁle with Feedback (AVPF)" RFC 5104 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5104

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5104>

B. Burman "Codec Control Messages

, February 2008,

, and

,

,

,

,

,
Levin, O. Even, R.
DOI 10.17487/RFC5168

, and

,
P. Hagendorf "XML Schema for Media Control" RFC 5168

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5168>

, March 2008,

,

,

Sparks, R., Ed. Lawrence, S. Hawrylyshen, A.
,
Ampliﬁcation Vulnerability in Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Forking Proxies"
, December 2008,
RFC 5393 DOI 10.17487/RFC5393
.
info/rfc5393>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

B. Campen "Addressing an

, and

,

,

,

,

Jennings, C., Ed. Mahy, R., Ed.
Connections in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 5626 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5626

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5626>

F. Audet, Ed. "Managing Client-Initiated

, October 2009,

, and

,

,

,

,

Froment, T. Lebel, C.
,
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 5658 DOI 10.17487/RFC5658
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5658>

B. Bonnaerens "Addressing Record-Route Issues in the
, October 2009,

, and

,

,

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

[RFC5954]

[RFC6263]

[RFC6351]

[RFC6352]

[RFC6442]

[RFC6665]

[RFC6764]

[RFC6881]

[RFC7525]

[RFC7647]

[RFC7742]

[RFC7852]

[RFC7874]

Gurbani, V., Ed. Carpenter, B., Ed.
,
, and
ABNF and URI Comparison in RFC 3261" RFC 5954 DOI 10.17487/RFC5954
2010,

B. Tate, Ed. "Essential Correction for IPv6
, August

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5954>
.

,
,

,

 and

A. Sollaud "Application Mechanism for Keeping Alive the NAT
Marjou, X.
Mappings Associated with RTP / RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Flows" RFC 6263
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC6263

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6263>
.

, June 2011,

,

,

Perreault, S. "xCard: vCard XML Representation" RFC 6351 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6351

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6351>
.

, August 2011,

,

,

,

,

Daboo, C. "CardDAV: vCard Extensions to Web Distributed Authoring and
Versioning (WebDAV)" RFC 6352 DOI 10.17487/RFC6352
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6352>
.

, August 2011,

,

<https://

,

Polk, J. Rosen, B.
Initiation Protocol" RFC 6442 DOI 10.17487/RFC6442
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6442>
.

, and
,

,

,

J. Peterson "Location Conveyance for the Session

, December 2011,

<https://

Roach, A.B. "SIP-Speciﬁc Event Notiﬁcation" RFC 6665 DOI 10.17487/RFC6665
,
July 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6665>
.

,

,

,

,

Daboo, C. "Locating Services for Calendaring Extensions to WebDAV (CalDAV)
and vCard Extensions to WebDAV (CardDAV)" RFC 6764 DOI 10.17487/RFC6764
,
February 2013,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6764>
.

,

 and

J. Polk "Best Current Practice for Communications Services in

Rosen, B.
Support of Emergency Calling" BCP 181 RFC 6881 DOI 10.17487/RFC6881
2013,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6881>

,

,

,

,

, March

, and

P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of

,
Sheﬀer, Y. Holz, R.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
.
info/rfc7525>

, May 2015,

,

,

,

 and
Sparks, R.
,
RFC 7647 DOI 10.17487/RFC7647
.
info/rfc7647>

,

,
A.B. Roach "Clariﬁcations for the Use of REFER with RFC 6665"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, September 2015,

Roach, A.B. "WebRTC Video Processing and Codec Requirements" RFC 7742 DOI
10.17487/RFC7742

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7742>

, March 2016,

,

,

,

,

, and
Gellens, R. Rosen, B. Tschofenig, H. Marshall, R.
,
,
"Additional Data Related to an Emergency Call" RFC 7852 DOI 10.17487/RFC7852
July 2016,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7852>

J. Winterbottom

,

,

,

,

Valin, JM.
,
7874 DOI 10.17487/RFC7874

C. Bran "WebRTC Audio Codec and Processing Requirements" RFC
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7874>

, May 2016,

 and

,

,

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

[RFC8174]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8599]

[RFC8760]

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
,
rfc8174>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

, and

J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Keranen, A. Holmberg, C.
,
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
<https://www.rfc-
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8445>
.

, July 2018,

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>
.

, August 2018,

,

Holmberg, C.
Protocol (SIP)" RFC 8599 DOI 10.17487/RFC8599
,
.
editor.org/info/rfc8599>

 and
,

,

M. Arnold "Push Notiﬁcation with the Session Initiation

, May 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Shekh-Yusef, R. "The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Digest Access
Authentication Scheme" RFC 8760 DOI 10.17487/RFC8760
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8760>

,

,

, March 2020,

<https://

[RFC8825]

,
,
Alvestrand, H. "Overview: Real-Time Protocols for Browser-Based Applications"
, January 2021,
,
RFC 8825 DOI 10.17487/RFC8825
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
.
rfc8825>

[RFC8827]

[RFC8829]

[RFC8834]

[RFC8835]

[RFC8839]

[RFC8865]

[RFC8866]

,
Rescorla, E. "WebRTC Security Architecture" RFC 8827 DOI 10.17487/RFC8827
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8827>

,

,

,

, and
Uberti, J. Jennings, C.
E. Rescorla, Ed. "JavaScript Session Establishment
,
Protocol (JSEP)" RFC 8829 DOI 10.17487/RFC8829
.
editor.org/info/rfc8829>

, January 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

Perkins, C. Westerlund, M.
WebRTC" RFC 8834 DOI 10.17487/RFC8834
.
editor.org/info/rfc8834>

, and

,

,

,

J. Ott "Media Transport and Use of RTP in
<https://www.rfc-

, January 2021,

,
Alvestrand, H. "Transports for WebRTC" RFC 8835 DOI 10.17487/RFC8835
January 2021,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8835>

,

,

,

Petit-Huguenin, M. Nandakumar, S. Holmberg, C. Keränen, A.
"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Oﬀer/Answer Procedures for Interactive
, January
Connectivity Establishment (ICE)" RFC 8839 DOI 10.17487/RFC8839
2021,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8839>

, and

,

,

,

,

R. Shpount

,

Holmberg, C.
Data Channels" RFC 8865 DOI 10.17487/RFC8865
.
editor.org/info/rfc8865>

G. Hellström "T.140 Real-Time Text Conversation over WebRTC
<https://www.rfc-

, January 2021,

 and
,

,

,

,
Begen, A. Kyzivat, P. Perkins, C.
,
Protocol" RFC 8866 DOI 10.17487/RFC8866
.
editor.org/info/rfc8866>

, and

,
,

M. Handley "SDP: Session Description
<https://www.rfc-

,
, January 2021,

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9248

Relay User Equipment Proﬁle

June 2022

[RFC9071]

[RFC9110]

[RFC9112]

Hellström, G. "RTP-Mixer Formatting of Multiparty Real-Time Text" RFC 9071
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC9071

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9071>
.

, July 2021,

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>
.

,

,

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
9112 DOI 10.17487/RFC9112

, June 2022,

,

,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP/1.1" STD 99 RFC
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9112>

,

,

,

, and

13.  Informative References

[RFC3665]

[RFC8126]

,

Johnston, A. Donovan, S. Sparks, R. Cunningham, C.
,
,
Initiation Protocol (SIP) Basic Call Flow Examples" BCP 75 RFC 3665 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC3665

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3665>
.

K. Summers "Session
,
,

, December 2003,

, and

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

Acknowledgements

Brett Henderson
document.

 and

Jim Malloy

 provided many helpful edits to prior draft versions of this

Paul Kyzivat

 provided extensive reviews and comments.

Author's Address

Brian Rosen
470 Conrad Dr
Mars PA 16046
United States of America
Email:

 br@brianrosen.net

,

Rosen

Standards Track

Page 36

