Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9144
Standards Track
December 2021
2070-1721
A. Clemm
Futurewei

J. Tantsura
Microsoft

Y. Qu
Futurewei

A. Bierman
YumaWorks

RFC 9144
Comparison of Network Management Datastore
Architecture (NMDA) Datastores

Abstract

This document deﬁnes a Remote Procedure Call (RPC) operation to compare management
datastores that comply with the Network Management Datastore Architecture (NMDA).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9144

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Key Words

3.  Data Model Overview

4.  YANG Data Model

5.  Example

6.  Performance Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Update to the IETF XML Registry

7.2.  Update to the YANG Module Names Registry

8.  Security Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Possible Future Extensions

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC8342]

 introduces a set of new datastores that each hold YANG-deﬁned data

 and represent a diﬀerent "viewpoint" on the data that is maintained by a server. New

The revised NMDA
[RFC7950]
YANG datastores that are introduced include <intended>, which contains validated conﬁguration
data that a client application intends to be in eﬀect, and <operational>, which contains
operational state data (such as statistics) as well as conﬁguration data that is actually in eﬀect.

NMDA introduces, in eﬀect, a concept of "lifecycle" for management data, distinguishing between
data that is part of a conﬁguration that was supplied by a user, conﬁguration data that has
actually been successfully applied and that is part of the operational state, and the overall
operational state that includes applied conﬁguration data as well as status and statistics.

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

As a result, data from the same management model can be reﬂected in multiple datastores.
Clients need to specify the target datastore to be speciﬁc about which viewpoint of the data they
want to access. For example, a client application can diﬀerentiate whether they are interested in
the conﬁguration that is supplied to a server and is supposed to be in eﬀect or the conﬁguration
that has been applied and is actually in eﬀect on the server.

Due to the fact that data can propagate from one datastore to another, it is possible for
diﬀerences between datastores to occur. Some of this is entirely expected, as there may be a time
lag between when a conﬁguration is given to the device and reﬂected in <intended> until when it
actually takes eﬀect and is reﬂected in <operational>. However, there may be cases when a
conﬁguration item that was to be applied may not actually take eﬀect at all or needs an
unusually long time to do so. This can be the case due to certain conditions not being met, certain
parts of the conﬁguration not propagating because they are considered inactive, resource
dependencies not being resolved, or even implementation errors in corner conditions.

When the conﬁguration that is in eﬀect is diﬀerent from the conﬁguration that was applied,
many issues can result. It becomes more diﬃcult to operate the network properly due to limited
visibility of the actual operational status, which makes it more diﬃcult to analyze and
understand what is going on in the network. Services may be negatively aﬀected (for example,
degrading or breaking a customer service), and network resources may be misallocated.

Applications can potentially analyze any diﬀerences between two datastores by retrieving the
contents from both datastores and comparing them. However, in many cases, this will be both
costly and extremely wasteful.

This document introduces a YANG data model that deﬁnes RPCs intended to be used in
conjunction with NETCONF
request a server to compare two NMDA datastores and report any diﬀerences.

 or RESTCONF

. These RPCs allow a client to

[RFC8040]

[RFC6241]

2.  Key Words

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

3.  Data Model Overview

The core of the solution is a new management operation, <compare>, that compares the data tree
contents of two datastores. The operation checks whether there are any diﬀerences in values or
in data nodes that are contained in either datastore and returns any diﬀerences as output. The
output is returned in the format speciﬁed in YANG Patch

[RFC8072]

.

The YANG data model deﬁnes the <compare> operation as a new RPC. The operation takes the
following input parameters:

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

source:

The source identiﬁes the datastore to serve as the reference for the comparison -- for

example, <intended>.

target:

The target identiﬁes the datastore to compare against the source -- for example,

<operational>.

ﬁlter-spec:

This is a choice between diﬀerent ﬁlter constructs to identify the parts of the

datastore to be retrieved. It acts as a node selector that speciﬁes which data nodes are within
the scope of the comparison and which nodes are outside the scope. This allows a comparison
operation to be applied only to a speciﬁc part of the datastore that is of interest, such as a
particular subtree. Note that the ﬁlter does not allow expressions that match against data
node values, since this may incur implementation diﬃculties and is not required for normal
use cases.

all:

When set, this parameter indicates that all diﬀerences should be included, including
diﬀerences pertaining to schema nodes that exist in only one of the datastores. When this
parameter is not included, a preﬁltering step is automatically applied to exclude data from the
comparison that does not pertain to both datastores: if the same schema node is not present
in both datastores, then all instances of that schema node and all its descendants are excluded
from the comparison. This allows client applications to focus on the diﬀerences that constitute
true mismatches of instance data without needing to specify more complex ﬁlter constructs.

report-origin:

When set, this parameter indicates that origin metadata should be included as

part of RPC output. When this parameter is omitted, origin metadata in comparisons that
involve <operational> is by default omitted. Note that origin metadata only applies to
<operational>; it is therefore also omitted in comparisons that do not involve <operational>
regardless of whether or not the parameter is set.

The operation provides the following output parameter:

diﬀerences:

[RFC8072]

This parameter contains the list of diﬀerences. Those diﬀerences are encoded per
. When a datastore node in the source of the

the YANG Patch data model deﬁned in
comparison is not present in the target of the comparison, this can be indicated either as a
"delete" or as a "remove" in the patch as there is no diﬀerentiation between those operations
for the purposes of the comparison. The YANG Patch data model is augmented to indicate the
value of source datastore nodes in addition to the patch itself that would need to be applied to
the source to produce the target. When the target datastore is <operational> and the input
parameter "report-origin" is set, origin metadata is included as part of the patch. Including
origin metadata can help explain the cause of a diﬀerence in some cases -- for example, when
a data node is part of <intended> but the origin of the same data node in <operational> is
reported as "system".

The data model is deﬁned in the ietf-nmda-compare YANG module. Its structure is shown in the
following ﬁgure. The notation syntax follows

[RFC8340]

.

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

module: ietf-nmda-compare
  rpcs:
    +---x compare
       +---w input
       |  +---w source            identityref
       |  +---w target            identityref
       |  +---w all?              empty
       |  +---w report-origin?    empty
       |  +---w (filter-spec)?
       |     +--:(subtree-filter)
       |     |  +---w subtree-filter?
       |     +--:(xpath-filter)
       |        +---w xpath-filter?     yang:xpath1.0 {nc:xpath}?
       +--ro output
          +--ro (compare-response)?
             +--:(no-matches)
             |  +--ro no-matches?    empty
             +--:(differences)
                +--ro differences
                   +--ro yang-patch
                      +--ro patch-id    string
                      +--ro comment?    string
                      +--ro edit* [edit-id]
                         +--ro edit-id         string
                         +--ro operation       enumeration
                         +--ro target          target-resource-offset
                         +--ro point?          target-resource-offset
                         +--ro where?          enumeration
                         +--ro value?
                         +--ro source-value?

Figure 1: Structure of ietf-nmda-compare

4.  YANG Data Model

This YANG module includes references to

[RFC6991] [RFC8342] [RFC8072]

,

,

, and

[RFC6241]

.

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

<CODE BEGINS> file "ietf-nmda-compare@2021-12-10.yang"

module ietf-nmda-compare {
  yang-version 1.1;
  namespace "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-nmda-compare";
  prefix cmp;

  import ietf-yang-types {
    prefix yang;
    reference
      "RFC 6991: Common YANG Data Types";
  }
  import ietf-datastores {
    prefix ds;
    reference
      "RFC 8342: Network Management Datastore
       Architecture (NMDA)";
  }
  import ietf-yang-patch {
    prefix ypatch;
    reference
      "RFC 8072: YANG Patch Media Type";
  }
  import ietf-netconf {
    prefix nc;
    reference
      "RFC 6241: Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)";
  }

  organization
    "IETF NETMOD (Network Modeling) Working Group";
  contact
    "WG Web:   <https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/netmod/>
     WG List:  <mailto:netmod@ietf.org>

     Author: Alexander Clemm
             <mailto:ludwig@clemm.org>

     Author: Yingzhen Qu
             <mailto:yqu@futurewei.com>

     Author: Jeff Tantsura
             <mailto:jefftant.ietf@gmail.com>

     Author: Andy Bierman
             <mailto:andy@yumaworks.com>";
  description
    "The YANG data model defines a new operation, <compare>, that
     can be used to compare NMDA datastores.

     Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identified as
     authors of the code.  All rights reserved.

     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
     without modification, is permitted pursuant to, and subject to
     the license terms contained in, the Revised BSD License set
     forth in Section 4.c of the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

     Relating to IETF Documents
     (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info).

     This version of this YANG module is part of RFC 9144; see the
     RFC itself for full legal notices.";

  revision 2021-12-10 {
    description
      "Initial revision.";
    reference
      "RFC 9144: Comparison of Network Management Datastore
       Architecture (NMDA) Datastores";
  }

  /* RPC */

  rpc compare {
    description
      "NMDA datastore compare operation.";
    input {
      leaf source {
        type identityref {
          base ds:datastore;
        }
        mandatory true;
        description
          "The source datastore to be compared.";
      }
      leaf target {
        type identityref {
          base ds:datastore;
        }
        mandatory true;
        description
          "The target datastore to be compared.";
      }
      leaf all {
        type empty;
        description
          "When this leaf is provided, all data nodes are compared,
           whether their schema node pertains to both datastores or
           not.  When this leaf is omitted, a prefiltering step is
           automatically applied that excludes data nodes from the
           comparison that can occur in only one datastore but not
           the other.  Specifically, if one of the datastores
           (source or target) contains only configuration data and
           the other datastore is <operational>, data nodes for
           the config that is false are excluded from the
           comparison.";
      }
      leaf report-origin {
        type empty;
        description
          "When this leaf is provided, origin metadata is
           included as part of RPC output.  When this leaf is
           omitted, origin metadata in comparisons that involve
           <operational> is by default omitted.";
      }

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

      choice filter-spec {
        description
          "Identifies the portions of the datastores to be
               compared.";
        anydata subtree-filter {
          description
            "This parameter identifies the portions of the
             target datastore to retrieve.";
          reference
            "RFC 6241, Section 6.";
        }
        leaf xpath-filter {
          if-feature "nc:xpath";
          type yang:xpath1.0;
          description
            "This parameter contains an XPath expression
             identifying the portions of the target
             datastore to retrieve.";
          reference
            "RFC 6991: Common YANG Data Types";
        }
      }
    }
    output {
      choice compare-response {
        description
          "Comparison results.";
        leaf no-matches {
          type empty;
          description
            "This leaf indicates that the filter did not match
             anything and nothing was compared.";
        }
        container differences {
          description
            "The list of differences, encoded per RFC 8072 with an
             augmentation to include source values where applicable.
             When a datastore node in the source is not present in
             the target, this can be indicated either as a 'delete'
             or as a 'remove' as there is no difference between
             them for the purposes of the comparison.";
          uses ypatch:yang-patch {
            augment "yang-patch/edit" {
              description
                "Provides the value of the source of the patch,
                 respectively of the source of the comparison, in
                 addition to the target value, where applicable.";
              anydata source-value {
                when "../operation = 'delete'"
                   + "or ../operation = 'merge'"
                   + "or ../operation = 'move'"
                   + "or ../operation = 'replace'"
                   + "or ../operation = 'remove'";
                description
                  "The anydata 'value' is only used for 'delete',
                   'move', 'merge', 'replace', and 'remove'
                   operations.";
              }

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

              reference
                "RFC 8072: YANG Patch Media Type";
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

<CODE ENDS>

5.  Example

The following example compares the diﬀerence between <operational> and <intended> for a
subtree under "interfaces". The subtree contains a subset of objects that are deﬁned in a YANG
data model for the management of interfaces deﬁned in
. For the purposes of
understanding the subsequent example, the following excerpt of the data model whose
instantiation is the basis of the comparison is provided:

[RFC8343]

container interfaces {
  description
    "Interface parameters.";
  list interface {
    key "name";
    leaf name {
      type string;
      description
        "The name of the interface.";
    }
    leaf description {
      type string;
      description
        "A textual description of the interface.";
    }
    leaf enabled {
      type boolean;
      default "true";
      description
        "This leaf contains the configured, desired state of the
         interface.";
    }
  }
}

The contents of <intended> and <operational> datastores in XML

[W3C.REC-xml-20081126]

:

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

<!--INTENDED-->
<interfaces xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-interfaces">
  <interface>
    <name>eth0</name>
    <enabled>false</enabled>
    <description>ip interface</description>
  </interface>
</interfaces>

<!--OPERATIONAL-->
<interfaces
    xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-interfaces"
    xmlns:or="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-origin">
  <interface or:origin="or:learned">
    <name>eth0</name>
    <enabled>true</enabled>
  </interface>
</interfaces>

<operational> does not contain an instance for leaf "description" that is contained in <intended>.
Another leaf, "enabled", has diﬀerent values in the two datastores, being "true" in <operational>
and "false" in <intended>. A third leaf, "name", is the same in both cases. The origin of the leaf
instances in <operational> is "learned", which may help explain the discrepancies.

RPC request to compare <operational> (source of the comparison) with <intended> (target of the
comparison):

<rpc message-id="101"
    xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">
  <compare xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-nmda-compare"
      xmlns:ds="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-datastores">
    <source>ds:operational</source>
    <target>ds:intended</target>
    <report-origin/>
    <xpath-filter
        xmlns:if="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-interfaces">
      /if:interfaces
    </xpath-filter>
  </compare>
</rpc>

RPC reply when a diﬀerence is detected:

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

<rpc-reply
     xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"
     message-id="101">
  <differences
     xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-nmda-compare"
     xmlns:or="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-origin">
    <yang-patch>
      <patch-id>interface status</patch-id>
      <comment>
        diff between operational (source) and intended (target)
      </comment>
      <edit>
        <edit-id>1</edit-id>
        <operation>replace</operation>
        <target>/ietf-interfaces:interface=eth0/enabled</target>
        <value>
          <if:enabled>false</if:enabled>
        </value>
        <source-value>
           <if:enabled or:origin="or:learned">true</if:enabled>
        </source-value>
      </edit>
      <edit>
        <edit-id>2</edit-id>
        <operation>create</operation>
        <target>/ietf-interfaces:interface=eth0/description</target>
        <value>
          <if:description>ip interface</if:description>
        </value>
      </edit>
    </yang-patch>
  </differences>
</rpc-reply>

The same request in RESTCONF (using JSON format

[RFC7951]

):

POST /restconf/operations/ietf-nmda-compare:compare HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Content-Type: application/yang-data+json
Accept: application/yang-data+json

{ "ietf-nmda-compare:input" : {
   "source" : "ietf-datastores:operational",
   "target" : "ietf-datastores:intended",
   "report-origin" : null,
   "xpath-filter" : "/ietf-interfaces:interfaces"
   }
}

The same response in RESTCONF (using JSON format):

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Thu, 24 Jan 2019 20:56:30 GMT
Server: example-server
Content-Type: application/yang-data+json

{ "ietf-nmda-compare:output" : {
    "differences" : {
      "ietf-yang-patch:yang-patch" : {
        "patch-id" : "interface status",
        "comment" : "diff between intended (source) and operational",
        "edit" : [
          {
            "edit-id" : "1",
            "operation" : "replace",
            "target" : "/ietf-interfaces:interface=eth0/enabled",
            "value" : {
               "ietf-interfaces:interface/enabled" : "false"
            },
            "source-value" : {
               "ietf-interfaces:interface/enabled" : "true",
               "@ietf-interfaces:interface/enabled" : {
                 "ietf-origin:origin" : "ietf-origin:learned"
               }
             }
          },
          {
            "edit-id" : "2",
            "operation" : "create",
            "target" : "/ietf-interfaces:interface=eth0/description",
            "value" : {
              "ietf-interface:interface/description" : "ip interface"
            }
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}

6.  Performance Considerations

The <compare> operation can be computationally expensive. While responsible client
applications are expected to use the operation responsibly and sparingly only when warranted,
implementations need to be aware of the fact that excessive invocation of this operation will
burden system resources and need to ensure that system performance will not be adversely
impacted. One possibility for an implementation to mitigate against this is to limit the number of
requests that are served to a client, or to any number of clients, in any one time interval, by
rejecting requests made at a higher frequency than the implementation can reasonably sustain.

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

While useful, tools such as YANG data models that allow for the monitoring of server resources,
system performance, and statistics about RPCs and RPC rates are outside the scope of this
document. When deﬁned, any such model should be general in nature and not limited to the RPC
operation deﬁned in this document.

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Update to the IETF XML Registry

IANA has registered the following URI in the "IETF XML Registry"

[RFC3688]

:

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-nmda-compare

URI:
Registrant Contact:
XML:

The IESG.

N/A; the requested URI is an XML namespace.

7.2.  Update to the YANG Module Names Registry

IANA has registered the following YANG module in the "YANG Module Names" registry

[RFC6020]

:

ietf-nmda-compare

name:
namespace:
preﬁx:
reference:

cmp

RFC 9144

urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-nmda-compare

8.  Security Considerations

The YANG module speciﬁed in this document deﬁnes a schema for data that is designed to be
accessed via network management protocols such as NETCONF
[RFC8040]
implement secure transport is Secure Shell (SSH)
and the mandatory-to-implement secure transport is TLS

. The lowest NETCONF layer is the secure transport layer, and the mandatory-to-

 or RESTCONF

[RFC6241]

[RFC6242]

[RFC8446]

. The lowest RESTCONF layer is HTTPS,

.

The Network Conﬁguration Access Control Model (NACM)
restrict access for particular NETCONF or RESTCONF users to a preconﬁgured subset of all
available NETCONF or RESTCONF protocol operations and content.

 provides the means to

[RFC8341]

NACM speciﬁes access for the server in its entirety, and the same access rules apply to all
datastores. Any subtrees to which a requestor does not have read access are silently skipped and
not included in the comparison.

The RPC operation deﬁned in this YANG module, <compare>, may be considered sensitive or
vulnerable in some network environments. It is thus important to control access to this
operation. This is the sensitivity/vulnerability of RPC operation <compare>:

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

Comparing datastores for diﬀerences requires a certain amount of processing resources at the
server. An attacker could attempt to attack a server by making a high volume of comparison
requests. Server implementations can guard against such scenarios in several ways. For one, they
can implement the NACM in order to require proper authorization for requests to be made.
Second, server implementations can limit the number of requests that they serve to a client in
any one time interval, rejecting requests made at a higher frequency than the implementation
can reasonably sustain.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3688]

[RFC6020]

[RFC6241]

[RFC6242]

[RFC6991]

[RFC7950]

[RFC7951]

[RFC8040]

[RFC8072]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
,
,
Mealling, M. "The IETF XML Registry" BCP 81 RFC 3688 DOI 10.17487/RFC3688
January 2004,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3688>

,

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "YANG - A Data Modeling Language for the Network
Conﬁguration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6020 DOI 10.17487/RFC6020
2010,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6020>

,

,

, October

,

Enns, R., Ed. Bjorklund, M., Ed. Schoenwaelder, J., Ed.
,
"Network Conﬁguration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6241 DOI 10.17487/RFC6241
June 2011,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6241>

,
A. Bierman, Ed.

, and
,

,

,

,
Wasserman, M. "Using the NETCONF Protocol over Secure Shell (SSH)" RFC 6242
DOI 10.17487/RFC6242

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6242>

, June 2011,

,

,

Schoenwaelder, J., Ed. "Common YANG Data Types" RFC 6991 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6991

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6991>

, July 2013,

,

,

,

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "The YANG 1.1 Data Modeling Language" RFC 7950 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7950>
10.17487/RFC7950

,
, August 2016,

,

,

Lhotka, L. "JSON Encoding of Data Modeled with YANG" RFC 7951 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7951

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7951>

, August 2016,

,

,

,

,
Bierman, A. Bjorklund, M.
10.17487/RFC8040

, and
, January 2017,

,
K. Watsen "RESTCONF Protocol" RFC 8040 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8040>

,

,

,
Bierman, A. Bjorklund, M.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8072

, and
, February 2017,

,
K. Watsen "YANG Patch Media Type" RFC 8072
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8072>

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

[RFC8340]

[RFC8341]

[RFC8342]

[RFC8446]

Bjorklund, M.
10.17487/RFC8340

 and

L. Berger, Ed. "YANG Tree Diagrams" BCP 215 RFC 8340 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8340>
.

, March 2018,

,

,

,

Bierman, A.
STD 91 RFC 8341 DOI 10.17487/RFC8341
,
info/rfc8341>
.

M. Bjorklund "Network Conﬁguration Access Control Model"
 and
,
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, March 2018,

,

,

R. Wilton "Network
Bjorklund, M. Schoenwaelder, J. Shafer, P. Watsen, K.
,
Management Datastore Architecture (NMDA)" RFC 8342 DOI 10.17487/RFC8342
,
March 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8342>
.

, and
,

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>
.

, August 2018,

,

[W3C.REC-xml-20081126]

Bray, T. Paoli, J. Sperberg-McQueen, M. Maler, E.

,

,

,

, and

F. Yergeau
,

"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Fifth Edition)" World Wide Web
Consortium Recommendation REC-xml-20081126
www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-xml-20081126>
.

, November 2008,

<https://

,

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC8343]

Bjorklund, M. "A YANG Data Model for Interface Management" RFC 8343 DOI
10.17487/RFC8343

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8343>
.

, March 2018,

,

,

,

Appendix A.  Possible Future Extensions

It is conceivable to extend the <compare> operation with a number of possible additional
features in the future.

Speciﬁcally, it is possible to deﬁne an extension with an optional feature for dampening. This will
allow clients to specify a minimum time period for which a diﬀerence must persist for it to be
reported. This will enable clients to distinguish between diﬀerences that are only ﬂeeting from
ones that are not and that may represent a real operational issue and inconsistency within the
device.

For this purpose, an additional input parameter can be added to specify the dampening period.
Only diﬀerences that pertain for at least the dampening time are reported. A value of 0 or
omission of the parameter indicates no dampening. Reporting of diﬀerences
correspondingly be delayed by the dampening period from the time the request is received.

MAY

To implement this feature, a server implementation might run a comparison when the RPC is ﬁrst
invoked and temporarily store the result. Subsequently, it could wait until after the end of the
dampening period to check whether the same diﬀerences are still observed. The diﬀerences that
still persist are then returned.

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9144

NMDA Datastores

December 2021

Acknowledgments

Rob Wilton Martin Bjorklund Mahesh Jethanandani Lou Berger Kent Watsen Phil

,

,

,

We thank
Shafer Ladislav Lhotka Tim Carey
,
suggestions.

,

,

,
Reshad Rahman
, and

 for their valuable feedback and

Authors' Addresses

Alexander Clemm
Futurewei
2330 Central Expressway
Santa Clara CA 95050
,
United States of America
Email:

 ludwig@clemm.org

Yingzhen Qu
Futurewei
2330 Central Expressway
Santa Clara CA 95050
,
United States of America
Email:

 yqu@futurewei.com

Jeﬀ Tantsura
Microsoft
Email:

 jeﬀtant.ietf@gmail.com

Andy Bierman
YumaWorks
Email:

 andy@yumaworks.com

Clemm, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

