Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9927
8928
Standards Track
February 2026
2070-1721
P. Thubert

A. Rashid
Politecnico di Bari

RFC 9927
Fixing the C-Flag in the Extended Address
Registration Option (EARO)

Abstract

This document updates "Address-Protected Neighbor Discovery for Low-Power and Lossy
Networks" (RFC 8928) by changing the position of the C-flag in the Extended Address Registration
Option (EARO) and registering it with IANA.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9927
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Thubert & Rashid

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9927

Fix of RFC 8928

February 2026

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Requirements Language

2.2.  Related Documents

2.3.  Acronyms

3.  Updating RFC 8928

4.  Security Considerations

5.  Operational Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Bit Position of the C-flag

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

3

3

5

5

5

5

6

6

7

7

 defined the C-flag in EARO. It is used to indicate that the Registration Ownership

Address-Protected Neighbor Discovery for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (AP-ND)

The
[RFC8928]
Verifier (ROVR) field contains a Crypto-ID and that the 6LoWPAN Node (6LN) may be challenged
 defined the C-flag in the EARO in bit
for ownership of the registered address. Initially,
position 3; later,
 defined the P-Field in bits 2 and 3 of the EARO flags field with proper
IANA registration, causing an overlap with Figure 1 of
the C-flag.

, which depicts the location of

[RFC9685]

[RFC8928]

[RFC8928]

This specification updates
thereby preventing conflicts.

[RFC8928]

 by repositioning the C-flag as bit 1 of the EARO flags field,

Thubert & Rashid

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9927

Fix of RFC 8928

February 2026

2.  Terminology

2.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.2.  Related Documents

This document uses terms and concepts that are discussed in IPv6 Neighbor Discovery (ND)
[RFC4861] [RFC4862]
,
,
[RFC9685]
, and

[RFC6775] [RFC8505] [RFC8928] [RFC8929]
,

, as well as 6LoWPAN-ND

[RFC9926]
.

,

,

2.3.  Acronyms

This document uses the following abbreviations:

6LN:

6LoWPAN Node

EARO:

Extended Address Registration Option

ND:

Neighbor Discovery

RATInd:

Registered Address Type Indicator

ROVR:

Registration Ownership Verifier

3.  Updating RFC 8928

 incorrectly refers to the Extended Address Registration Option (EARO) as the

[RFC8928]
Enhanced Address Registration Option. This specification corrects this terminology throughout
the document.

[RFC8928]

[RFC8928]

); however,

, the C-flag is specified in the EARO flags field at bit position 3 (as depicted in Figure

In
1 of
defined the P-Field in bits 2 and 3 of the EARO flags field and obtained proper IANA registration,
but this introduced an overlap with the representation in
. To resolve the conflict, this
specification updates
ensuring there are no overlapping definitions.

 by repositioning the C-flag to bit 1 of the EARO flags field,

 fails to register its position with IANA. Later,

[RFC8928]

[RFC8928]

[RFC8928]

[RFC9685]

Figure 1 replaces Figure 1 in

[RFC8928]

 in the case of an EARO used in an NS message.

Thubert & Rashid

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9927

Fix of RFC 8928

February 2026

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |     Type      |     Length    |F|Prefix Length|    Opaque     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |r|C| P | I |R|T|     TID       |     Registration Lifetime     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
 ...            Registration Ownership Verifier (ROVR)           ...
  |                  (64, 128, 192, or 256 bits)                  |
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Extended Address Registration Option (EARO) Format for Use in NS Messages

[RFC8928]
Figure 2 replaces Figure 1 in
difference between the two formats is in the usage of bits 16 to 23.

 in the case of an EARO used in an NA message. The

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |     Type      |     Length    | r |  Status   |    Opaque     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |r|C| P | I |R|T|     TID       |     Registration Lifetime     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
 ...            Registration Ownership Verifier (ROVR)           ...
  |                  (64, 128, 192, or 256 bits)                  |
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: Extended Address Registration Option (EARO) Format for Use in NA Messages

Option fields of interest for this specification:

Type:

33

Length:

Defined in

[RFC8505]

F:

Defined in

[RFC9926]

Prefix Length

Defined in

[RFC9926]

Status:

6-bit unsigned integer. This field is used in NA(EARO) response messages only to

indicate the status of a registration. This field is defined in
[RFC9010]
. The values for the Status field are available in
MUST
the F-flag is set and the prefix length is provided.

. This field
 be set to 0 in NS(EARO) messages unless the registration is for a prefix, in which case

[RFC8505]
[IANA.ICMP.ARO.STAT]

 and resized by

Opaque:

Defined in

[RFC8505]

Thubert & Rashid

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9927

Fix of RFC 8928

February 2026

r (reserved):

1-bit reserved field in NS(EARO) and NA(EARO) as depicted in Figure 1 and Figure
2. 2-bit reserved field (most significant bits of Status filed) in NA(EARO) as depicted in Figure
 be ignored by the receiver.
2. All reserved field

 be set to zero by the sender and

MUST

MUST

C:

P:

1-bit flag, moved from its position in Figure 1 of
field contains a Crypto-ID and that the 6LN

MAY

[RFC8928]

. It is set to indicate that the ROVR

 be challenged for ownership.

2-bit field for Registered Address Type Indicator (RATInd). Indicates whether the registered
address is unicast, multicast, anycast, or derived from the registered unicast prefix. Used to
transport the RATInd in different protocols. The values for the RATInd field are available in
[IANA.ICMP.ARO.P-FIELD]

.

I:

Defined in

[RFC8505]

R:

Defined in

[RFC8505]

T:

Defined in

[RFC8505]

TID (Transaction ID):

Defined in

[RFC8505]

Registration Lifetime:

Defined in

[RFC8505]

Registration Ownership Verifier (ROVR):

Defined in
verify who "owns" a registered IPv6 address. When the C-flag is set, this field contains a
Crypto-ID

. Variable-length field used to

[RFC8928]

[RFC8505]

.

4.  Security Considerations

This specification does not introduce any new security considerations beyond those already
discussed in

[RFC8505]
.

[RFC8928]

 and

5.  Operational Considerations

The updates introduced in this document are not backward compatible. However, given that
there are no known implementations or deployments of
require any transition plan.

, this document does not

[RFC8928]

6.  IANA Considerations

6.1.  Bit Position of the C-flag

IANA has updated the "Address Registration Option Flags"
"Internet Control Message Protocol version 6 (ICMPv6) Parameters" registry group as specified in
Table 1 so this document is referenced in addition to

[IANA.ICMP.ARO.FLG]

 for bit number 1:

 registry in the

[RFC8928]

Thubert & Rashid

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9927

Fix of RFC 8928

February 2026

Bit Number Description

Reference

1

C-Flag

RFC 9927 and

[RFC8928]

Table 1: Bit Position of the C-flag

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[IANA.ICMP.ARO.FLG]

IANA "Address Registration Option Flags" <https://www.iana.org/

,

,

assignments/icmpv6-parameters>

.

[IANA.ICMP.ARO.P-FIELD]

parameters>

,

IANA "P-Field Values" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/icmpv6-
.

,

[IANA.ICMP.ARO.STAT]

IANA "Address Registration Option Status Values" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/icmpv6-parameters>

.

[RFC2119]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4862]

[RFC6775]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8505]

[RFC8928]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

.

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
,
<https://
, September 2007,

,

Thomson, S. Narten, T.
, and
Autoconfiguration" RFC 4862 DOI 10.17487/RFC4862
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4862>

T. Jinmei "IPv6 Stateless Address
,

,

,

.

, September 2007,

<https://

,

Shelby, Z., Ed. Chakrabarti, S. Nordmark, E.
C. Bormann "Neighbor
,
Discovery Optimization for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area
Networks (6LoWPANs)" RFC 6775 DOI 10.17487/RFC6775
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6775>

, November 2012,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Nordmark, E. Chakrabarti, S.
Extensions for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network
(6LoWPAN) Neighbor Discovery" RFC 8505 DOI 10.17487/RFC8505
,
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8505>

, and

.

,

,

C. Perkins "Registration

,

, November

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Sarikaya, B. Sethi, M.
R. Struik "Address-Protected
Neighbor Discovery for Low-Power and Lossy Networks" RFC 8928 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8928>
10.17487/RFC8928

, November 2020,

, and

,

,

,

.

Thubert & Rashid

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9927

Fix of RFC 8928

February 2026

[RFC9010]

[RFC9685]

[RFC9926]

 and

Thubert, P., Ed.
,
Power and Lossy Networks) Leaves" RFC 9010 DOI 10.17487/RFC9010
2021,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9010>
.

M. Richardson "Routing for RPL (Routing Protocol for Low-

, April

,

,

Thubert, P., Ed. "Listener Subscription for IPv6 Neighbor Discovery Multicast
and Anycast Addresses" RFC 9685 DOI 10.17487/RFC9685
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9685>

, November 2024,

,

,

.

Thubert, P., Ed. "Prefix Registration for IPv6 Neighbor Discovery" RFC 9926 DOI
10.17487/RFC9926

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9926>
.

, February 2026,

,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC8929]

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Perkins, C.E.
8929 DOI 10.17487/RFC8929
,
rfc8929>

.

, and
, November 2020,

E. Levy-Abegnoli "IPv6 Backbone Router" RFC

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Authors' Addresses

Pascal Thubert
06330 Roquefort-les-Pins
France
Email:

pascal.thubert@gmail.com

Adnan Rashid
Politecnico di Bari
Via Edoardo Orabona 4
70126 Bari
Italy
Email:

adnan.rashid@poliba.it

Thubert & Rashid

Standards Track

Page 7

