Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9900
Standards Track
December 2025
2070-1721
M. Boucadair
Orange

RFC 9900
Updates to NETCONF Transport Port Numbers

Abstract

This document releases IANA-assigned port numbers for services related to the Network
Configuration Protocol (NETCONF) that have not been in use in production networks.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9900
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9900

NETCONF Transport Port Numbers

December 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Operational Considerations

3.  Security Considerations

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  NETCONF over BEEP Service

4.2.  NETCONF over SOAP Service

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

5.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

2

3

3

3

3

4

4

4

5

5

The "Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry"
several NETCONF-related port and service name assignments such as 830 for NETCONF over
, 831 for NETCONF over the Blocks Extensible Exchange Protocol
Secure Shell (SSH)
[RFC4743]
(BEEP)
,
4334 for NETCONF Call Home
(TLS)

, 832 for NETCONF over the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP)

, and 6513 for NETCONF over Transport Layer Security

[RFC7589][NETCONF-over-TLS]
.

[IANA-SERVICE]

[RFC4744]

[RFC6242]

[RFC8071]

 records

However, three of these assignments (831, 832, and 833) are for protocols that are not deployed,
and the relevant RFCs (
assignments are thus no longer required to support these services.

) have been marked Historic. All these

[RFC4743]

[RFC4744]

 and

This document de-assigns these unused port numbers.

Consistent with
port numbers are de-assigned for better usage of available scarce resources.

Section 8.2 of [RFC6335]

, this document does not de-assign service names; only

2.  Operational Considerations

There are no known implementations and deployments of protocols that rely upon the port
numbers released back by this document.

Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9900

NETCONF Transport Port Numbers

December 2025

Existing configurations (if any) that associate the released port numbers with the service names
"netconf-beep" and "netconfsoaphttp" need to be reassessed and updated according to the
actions in Section 4.

Other than that, there are no new operations or manageability requirements introduced by this
document.

3.  Security Considerations

This document does not describe any protocol. As such, this document does not introduce any
new security vulnerability.

4.  IANA Considerations

Per this document, IANA has updated the "Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number
 as specified in the following subsections.
Registry"

[IANA-SERVICE]

De-assigned allocations are marked per
here.

Section 8.2 of [RFC6335]

. These actions are not repeated

4.1.  NETCONF over BEEP Service

OLD:

Service Name

Port Number

Transport Protocol Description

Reference

netconf-beep

netconf-beep

831

831

tcp

udp

NETCONF over BEEP

[RFC4744]

NETCONF over BEEP

[RFC4744]

Table 1

NEW:

Service
Name

Port
Number

Transport
Protocol

Description

Reference

netconf-beep

Table 2

NETCONF over
BEEP

[RFC4744]
RFC 9900

A note has been added to 831 to indicate that the port number used to be assigned to NETCONF
over BEEP but was released by RFC 9900.

4.2.  NETCONF over SOAP Service

OLD:

Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9900

NETCONF Transport Port Numbers

December 2025

Service Name

Port
Number

Transport
Protocol

Description

Reference

netconfsoaphttp

832

netconfsoaphttp

832

netconfsoapbeep

833

netconfsoapbeep

833

Table 3

NEW:

tcp

udp

tcp

udp

NETCONF for SOAP
over HTTPS

NETCONF for SOAP
over HTTPS

NETCONF for SOAP
over BEEP

NETCONF for SOAP
over BEEP

[RFC4743]

[RFC4743]

[RFC4743]

[RFC4743]

Service Name

Port
Number

Transport
Protocol

Description

Reference

netconfsoaphttp

netconfsoapbeep

Table 4

NETCONF for SOAP
over HTTPS

NETCONF for SOAP
over BEEP

[RFC4743]
RFC 9900

[RFC4743]
RFC 9900

A note has been added to 832 and 833 to indicate that the port numbers used to be assigned to
NETCONF over SOAP but were released by RFC 9900.

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

[RFC6335]

,

,

Cotton, M. Eggert, L. Touch, J. Westerlund, M.
Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Procedures for the Management of the
Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry" BCP 165 RFC 6335
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC6335

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6335>

S. Cheshire "Internet
,

, August 2011,

, and

,

,

,

.

5.2.  Informative References

[IANA-SERVICE]

IANA "Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number Registry" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/service-names-port-numbers>

.

Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9900

NETCONF Transport Port Numbers

December 2025

[NETCONF-over-TLS]

Turner, S.

 and

R. Housley "Updates to Using the NETCONF Protocol over

,

Transport Layer Security (TLS) with Mutual X.509 Authentication" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-netconf-over-tls13-04
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-netconf-over-tls13-04>

, 18 January 2024,

,

,

.

,

Goddard, T. "Using NETCONF over the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP)"
RFC 4743 DOI 10.17487/RFC4743
info/rfc4743>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, December 2006,

,

.

K. Crozier "Using the NETCONF Protocol over the Blocks Extensible

,

 and

Lear, E.
Exchange Protocol (BEEP)" RFC 4744 DOI 10.17487/RFC4744
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4744>

,

,

.

, December 2006,

,

Wasserman, M. "Using the NETCONF Protocol over Secure Shell (SSH)" RFC
6242 DOI 10.17487/RFC6242
,
rfc6242>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2011,

.

Badra, M. Luchuk, A.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) with Mutual X.509 Authentication" RFC 7589
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7589>
DOI 10.17487/RFC7589
.

J. Schoenwaelder "Using the NETCONF Protocol over

, June 2015,

, and

,

,

Watsen, K. "NETCONF Call Home and RESTCONF Call Home" RFC 8071 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8071>
10.17487/RFC8071

, February 2017,

,

,

,

.

[RFC4743]

[RFC4744]

[RFC6242]

[RFC7589]

[RFC8071]

Acknowledgments

Thanks to
comments.

Amanda Baber

 and

Zahed Sarker

 for the guidance. Thanks to

Tom Petch

 for the

Kent Watsen
 for the INTDIR review,

Roni Even
 for the OPSDIR review,

 for Gen-ART review,
Michael Tüxen

Mahesh Jethanandani
Barry Leiba
 for TSVART review, and

 for the AD review,
 for ARTART review,
Joe Touch

 for the

Bernie

 for the Shepherd review,

Thanks to
Volz
Dhruv Dhody
port review.

Thanks to

Gorry Fairhurst

 for the IESG review.

Author's Address

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
Email:

mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Boucadair

Standards Track

Page 5

