Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9478
Standards Track
October 2023
2070-1721
P. Wouters
Aiven

S. Prasad
Red Hat

RFC 9478
Labeled IPsec Traffic Selector Support for the
Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)

Abstract

This document defines a new Traffic Selector Type (TS Type) for the Internet Key Exchange
Protocol version 2 (IKEv2) to add support for negotiating Mandatory Access Control (MAC)
security labels as a Traffic Selector of the Security Policy Database (SPD). Security Labels for IPsec
are also known as "Labeled IPsec". The new TS Type, TS_SECLABEL, consists of a variable length
opaque field that specifies the security label.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9478
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Wouters & Prasad

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9478

Labeled IPsec

October 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Traffic Selector Clarification

1.3.  Security Label Traffic Selector Negotiation

2.  TS_SECLABEL Traffic Selector Type

2.1.  TS_SECLABEL Payload Format

2.2.  TS_SECLABEL Properties

3.  Traffic Selector Negotiation

3.1.  Example TS Negotiation

3.2.  Considerations for Using Multiple TS Types in a TS

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

4

4

5

5

6

6

6

7

7

7

7

7

In computer security, Mandatory Access Control (MAC) usually refers to systems in which all
subjects and objects are assigned a security label. A security label is composed of a set of security
attributes. Along with a system authorization policy, the security labels determine access. Rules
within the system authorization policy determine whether the access will be granted based on
the security attributes of the subject and object.

Wouters & Prasad

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9478

Labeled IPsec

October 2023

Historically, security labels used by Multi-Level Secure (MLS) systems are comprised of a
sensitivity level (or classification) field and a compartment (or category) field, as defined in
[RFC5570]
a Flux Advanced Security Kernel (FLASK) implementation, has security labels represented as
colon-separated ASCII strings composed of values for identity, role, and type. The security labels
are often referred to as security contexts.

. As MAC systems evolved, other MAC models gained popularity. For example, SELinux,

Traffic Selector (TS) payloads specify the selection criteria for packets that will be forwarded over
the newly set up IPsec Security Association (SA) as enforced by the Security Policy Database (SPD)
[RFC4301]
.

This document specifies a new TS Type, TS_SECLABEL, for IKEv2 that can be used to negotiate
security labels as additional selectors for the SPD to further restrict the type of traffic that is
allowed to be sent and received over the IPsec SA.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Traffic Selector Clarification

Section 3.13 of [RFC7296]

The negotiation of Traffic Selectors is specified in
TS Types (TS_IPV4_ADDR_RANGE and TS_IPV6_ADDR_RANGE). The TS payload format is specified
in
payloads and individual Traffic Selectors of that payload. Sometimes, the exact meaning can only
be learned from context or if the item is written in plural ("Traffic Selectors" or "TSes"). This
section clarifies these terms as follows:

. However, the term "Traffic Selector" is used to denote the TS

Section 2.9 of [RFC7296]

, where it defines two

A Traffic Selector (capitalized, no acronym) is one selector for traffic of a specific Traffic Selector
Type (TS Type). For example, a Traffic Selector of TS Type TS_IPV4_ADDR_RANGE for UDP
(protocol 17) traffic in the IP network 198.51.100.0/24 covering all ports is denoted as (17, 0,
198.51.100.0-198.51.100.255).

A TS payload is a set of one or more Traffic Selectors of the same or different TS Types. It
typically contains one or more of the TS Type of TS_IPV4_ADDR_RANGE and/or
TS_IPV6_ADDR_RANGE. For example, the above Traffic Selector by itself in a TS payload is
denoted as TS((17, 0, 198.51.100.0-198.51.100.255))

1.3.  Security Label Traffic Selector Negotiation

MUST

The negotiation of Traffic Selectors is specified in
TSr payloads
TS_SECLABEL that is valid only with at least one other TS Type. That is, it cannot be the only TS
Type present in a TSi or TSr payload. It
as TS_IPV4_ADDR_RANGE and/or TS_IPV6_ADDR_RANGE.

 contain at least one TS Type. This document adds a new TS Type of

 be used along with an IP address selector type, such

Section 2.9 of [RFC7296]

 and states that the TSi/

MUST

Wouters & Prasad

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9478

Labeled IPsec

October 2023

2.  TS_SECLABEL Traffic Selector Type

This document defines a new TS Type, TS_SECLABEL, that contains a single new opaque Security
Label.

2.1.  TS_SECLABEL Payload Format

                     1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+---------------+---------------+-------------------------------+
|   TS Type     |    Reserved   |       Selector Length         |
+---------------+---------------+-------------------------------+
|                                                               |
~                         Security Label*                       ~
|                                                               |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 1: Labeled IPsec Traffic Selector

Note: All fields other than TS Type and Selector Length depend on the TS Type. The fields shown
are for TS Type TS_SECLABEL, which is the selector that this document defines.

TS Type (one octet):

Set to 10 for TS_SECLABEL.

Selector Length (two octets, unsigned integer):

Specifies the length of this Traffic Selector substructure including the header.

Security Label:

An opaque byte stream of at least one octet.

2.2.  TS_SECLABEL Properties

The TS_SECLABEL TS Type does not support narrowing or wildcards. It
match value.

MUST

 be used as an exact

MUST NOT

The TS_SECLABEL TS Type
 be an IP address
TS_SECLABEL is complimentary to another type of Traffic Selector. There
Traffic Selector Type in addition to the TS_SECLABEL TS Type in the TS payload. If a TS payload is
received with only TS_SECLABEL TS Types, the exchange
message containing TS_UNACCEPTABLE.

 be the only TS Type present in the TS payload, as

 be aborted with an Error Notify

MUST

MUST

The Security Label contents are opaque to the IKE implementation. That is, the IKE
implementation might not have any knowledge regarding the meaning of this selector other than
recognizing it as a type and opaque value to pass to the SPD.

Wouters & Prasad

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9478

Labeled IPsec

October 2023

MUST NOT

A zero-length Security Label
TS_SECLABEL with a zero-length Security Label, that specific TS payload
MUST
other TS payload contains an acceptable TS_SECLABEL TS Type, the exchange
with a TS_UNACCEPTABLE Error Notify message. A zero-length Security Label
interpreted as a wildcard security label.

 be ignored. If no
 be aborted
MUST
 be

MUST NOT

 be used. If a received TS payload contains a TS Type of

If multiple Security Labels are allowed for a Traffic Selector's IP address range, protocol, and port
range, the initiator includes all of these acceptable Security Labels. The responder
exactly one of the Security Labels.

 select

MUST

 use the Security Label for all selector
A responder that selected a TS with TS_SECLABEL
operations on the resulting TS. It
 select a TS_SECLABEL without using the specified
Security Label, even if it deems the Security Label optional, as the initiator has indicated (and
expects) that the Security Label will be set for all traffic matching the negotiated TS.

MUST NOT

MUST

3.  Traffic Selector Negotiation

If the TSi payload contains a Traffic Selector with TS Type TS_SECLABEL (along with another TS
Type), the responder
 create each TS response for the other TS Types using its normal rules
specified for each of those TS Types, such as narrowing them following the rules specified for
that TS Type and then adding exactly one for the TS Type of TS_SECLABEL to the TS payload(s). If
this is not possible, it

 return a TS_UNACCEPTABLE Error Notify payload.

MUST

MUST

If the Security Label TS Type is optional from a configuration point of view, an initiator will add
the TS_SECLABEL to the TSi/TSr payloads. If the responder replies with TSi/TSr payloads that
include the TS_SECLABEL, then the Child SA
MUST
Label. If the responder did not include a TS_SECLABEL in its response, then the initiator (which
deemed the Security Label optional) will install the Child SA without including any Security
Label. If the initiator required the TS_SECLABEL, it
send a Delete notification for the Child SA so the responder can uninstall its Child SA.

 be created and include the negotiated Security

 install the Child SA and it

MUST NOT

MUST

3.1.  Example TS Negotiation

An initiator could send the following:

TSi = ((17,24233,198.51.100.12-198.51.100.12),
       (0,0,198.51.100.0-198.51.100.255),
       (0,0,192.0.2.0-192.0.2.255),
       TS_SECLABEL1, TS_SECLABEL2)

TSr = ((17,53,203.0.113.1-203.0.113.1),
       (0,0,203.0.113.0-203.0.113.255),
       TS_SECLABEL1, TS_SECLABEL2)

Figure 2: Initiator TS Payloads Example

The responder could answer with the following:

Wouters & Prasad

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9478

Labeled IPsec

October 2023

TSi = ((0,0,198.51.100.0-198.51.100.255),
       TS_SECLABEL1)

TSr = ((0,0,203.0.113.0-203.0.113.255),
       TS_SECLABEL1)

Figure 3: Responder TS Payloads Example

3.2.  Considerations for Using Multiple TS Types in a TS

It would be unlikely that the traffic for TSi and TSr would have a different Security Label, but this
specification allows this to be specified. If the initiator does not support this and wants to prevent
the responder from picking different labels for the TSi/TSr payloads, it should attempt a Child SA
negotiation and start with the first Security Label only. Upon failure, the initiator should retry a
new Child SA negotiation with only the second Security Label.

If different IP ranges can only use different specific Security Labels, then these should be
negotiated in two different Child SA negotiations. In the example above, if the initiator only
allows 192.0.2.0/24 with TS_SECLABEL1 and 198.51.100.0/24 with TS_SECLABEL2, then it
NOT

 combine these two ranges and security labels into one Child SA negotiation.

MUST

4.  Security Considerations

It is assumed that the Security Label can be matched by the IKE implementation to its own
configured value, even if the IKE implementation itself cannot interpret the Security Label value.

A packet that matches an SPD entry for all components, except the Security Label, would be
treated as "not matching". If no other SPD entries match, the (mislabeled) traffic might end up
being transmitted in the clear. It is presumed that other MAC methods are in place to prevent
mislabeled traffic from reaching the IPsec subsystem or that the IPsec subsystem itself would
install a REJECT/DISCARD rule in the SPD to prevent unlabeled traffic otherwise matching a
labeled security SPD rule from being transmitted without IPsec protection.

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added a new entry in the "IKEv2 Traffic Selector Types" registry

[RFC7296]

 as follows.

Value

TS Type

Reference

10

TS_SECLABEL

RFC 9478

Table 1: IKEv2 Traffic Selector Types
Registry

Wouters & Prasad

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9478

Labeled IPsec

October 2023

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7296]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Kaufman, C. Hoffman, P. Nir, Y. Eronen, P.
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" STD 79 RFC 7296 DOI 10.17487/RFC7296
October 2014,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7296>
.

T. Kivinen "Internet Key

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

6.2.  Informative References

[LABELED-IPSEC]

Latten, J. Quigley, D.
,

, and

J. Lu "Security Label Extension to IKE" Work in

,

,

Progress Internet-Draft, draft-jml-ipsec-ikev2-security-label-01
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-jml-ipsec-ikev2-security-label-01>

, 28 January 2011,

,

.

[RFC4301]

[RFC5570]

 and

Kent, S.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4301
rfc4301>

,

.

K. Seo "Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol" RFC 4301

,

,

, December 2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

StJohns, M. Atkinson, R.
,
Security Option (CALIPSO)" RFC 5570 DOI 10.17487/RFC5570
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5570>

, and
,

,

,

.

G. Thomas "Common Architecture Label IPv6

, July 2009,

<https://

Acknowledgements

A large part of the introduction text was taken verbatim from
Joy Latten David Quigley
, and
are
IKEv2 Traffic Selector semantics.

Jarrett Lu Valery Smyslov

,

.

[LABELED-IPSEC]

, whose authors
 provided valuable input regarding

Authors' Addresses

Paul Wouters
Aiven
Email:

 paul.wouters@aiven.io

Sahana Prasad
Red Hat
Email:

 sahana@redhat.com

Wouters & Prasad

Standards Track

Page 7

