Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9073
5545
Standards Track
August 2021
2070-1721
M. Douglass
Bedework

RFC 9073
Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

Abstract

This speciﬁcation updates RFC 5545 by introducing a number of new iCalendar properties and
components that are of particular use for event publishers and in social networking.

This speciﬁcation also deﬁnes a new "STRUCTURED-DATA" property for iCalendar (RFC 5545) to
allow for data that is directly pertinent to an event or task to be included with the calendar data.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9073

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

1.2.  Terms Used in This Document

2.  Components and Properties

3.  Typed References

3.1.  Use Cases

3.1.1.  Piano Concert Performance

3.1.2.  Itineraries

3.1.2.1.  Reserving Facilities

4.  Modiﬁcations to Calendar Components

5.  New Property Parameters

5.1.  Order

5.2.  Schema

5.3.  Derived

6.  New Properties

6.1.  Location Type

6.2.  Participant Type

6.3.  Resource Type

6.4.  Calendar Address

6.5.  Styled-Description

6.6.  Structured-Data

7.  New Components

7.1.  Participant

7.1.1.  Schedulable Participant

7.2.  Location

7.3.  Resource

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

8.  Extended Examples

8.1.  Example 1

8.2.  Example 2

9.  Security Considerations

9.1.  URIs

9.2.  Malicious Content

9.3.  HTML Content

10. Privacy Considerations

10.1.  Tracking

10.2.  Revealing Locations

11. IANA Considerations

11.1.  Additional iCalendar Registrations

11.1.1.  Properties

11.1.2.  Parameters

11.1.3.  Components

11.2.  Participant Types and Resource Types Registries

11.2.1.  Participant Types

11.2.2.  Resource Types

12. Normative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

The currently existing iCalendar standard
 lacks useful methods for referencing
additional, external information relating to calendar components. Additionally, there is no
standard way to provide rich-text descriptions or metadata associated with the event.

[RFC5545]

Current practice is to embed this information as links in the description or to add nonstandard
properties, as deﬁned in

Section 3.8.8.2 of [RFC5545]

.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

[RFC5545]

 to deﬁne a number of properties and components referencing

This document updates
such external information that can provide additional information about an iCalendar
component. The intent is to allow the interchange of such information between applications or
systems (e.g., between clients, between client and server, and between servers). Formats, such as
, are likely to be most useful to the receivers of such events as they may be used
vCard
in other applications -- such as address books.

[RFC6350]

1.1.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The notation used in this memo is the ABNF notation of
[RFC5545]
come from iCalendar

[RFC5545]
.

. Any syntax elements shown below that are not explicitly deﬁned in this speciﬁcation

[RFC5234]

 as used by iCalendar

1.2.  Terms Used in This Document

Event:

When the word 'event' (perhaps with a capitalized 'E') is used, we are referring to

gatherings, formal or informal (for example, a sports event, a party, or a concert).

Social Calendaring:

Historically, calendar data and scheduling has been heavily biased towards

meetings in a corporate environment. Some of the features deﬁned in this document are to
support a more informal, i.e., social, model. For example, we may want to record who is
participating in a public event.

2.  Components and Properties

Previous extensions to the calendaring standards have been largely restricted to the addition of
properties or parameters. This is partly because iCalendar libraries had trouble handling
components nested deeper than those deﬁned in

[RFC5545]

.

In a break with this 'convention', this speciﬁcation deﬁnes a number of components rather than
properties. This is a better match for the way
handle such structures and allows richer deﬁnitions.

[W3C.REC-xml-20081126]

 and JSON

[RFC8259]

It also allows for the addition of extra properties inside the components and resolves some of the
problems of trying to add detailed information as a parameter.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

3.  Typed References

The properties and components deﬁned here can all reference external metadata, which may be
used by applications to provide further information to users. By providing type information,
clients and servers are able to discover interesting references and make use of them, perhaps for
indexing or presenting additional, related information for the user.

As always, clients should exercise caution in following references to external data.

The "LOCATION" property
specifying the location where an event (or task) will occur. This is inadequate for use cases
where structured location information (e.g., address, region, country, or postal code) is required
or preferred and limits widespread adoption of iCalendar in those settings.

 provides only an unstructured single text value for

[RFC5545]

Using the "VLOCATION" component, rich information about multiple locations can be
communicated in a "STRUCTURED-DATA" property; examples include address, region, country,
postal code, parking availability, nearby restaurants, and the venue, among others. Servers and
clients can retrieve the objects when storing the event and use them to index by geographic
location.

When a calendar client receives a calendar component, it can search the set of locations looking
for those of particular interest. The "LOCATION-TYPE" property and "FMTTYPE" parameter
applied to the "STRUCTURED-DATA" property, if supplied, can be used to help the selection.

The "PARTICIPANT" component is designed to handle common use cases in event publication. It
is generally important to provide information about the organizers of such events. Sponsors wish
to be referenced in a prominent manner. In social calendaring, it is often important to identify
the active participants (e.g,, a school sports team) and the inactive participants (e.g., the parents)
in the event.

The "PARTICIPANT" component can be used to provide useful extra data about an attendee. For
example, a location inside the PARTICIPANT gives the actual location of a remote attendee. (But
see the note about privacy.)

Alternatively, the "PARTICIPANT" component can be used to provide a reference -- perhaps the
address for mailing lists.

3.1.  Use Cases

The main motivation for these changes has been event publication, but there are opportunities
for use elsewhere. The following use cases will describe some possible scenarios.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

3.1.1.  Piano Concert Performance

In putting together a concert, there are many participants: piano tuner, performer, stage hands,
etc. In addition, there are sponsors and various contacts to be provided. There will also be a
number of related locations. A number of events can be created, all of which relate to the
performance in diﬀerent ways.

There may be an iCalendar Transport-independent Interoperability Protocol (iTIP)
meeting request for the piano tuner, who will arrive before the performance. Other members of
staﬀ may also receive meeting requests.

[RFC5546]

An event can also be created for publication, which will have a "PARTICIPANT" component for
the pianist providing a reference to vCard information (
) about the performer. This
event would also hold information about parking, local subway stations, and the venue itself. In
addition, there may be sponsorship information for sponsors of the event and perhaps paid
sponsorship properties, essentially advertising local establishments.

[RFC6350]

3.1.2.  Itineraries

These additions also provide opportunities for the travel industry. When booking a ﬂight, the
"PARTICIPANT" component can be used to provide references to businesses at the airports and to
rental car businesses at the destination.

The embedded location information can guide the traveler around the airport itself or to their
ﬁnal destination. The contact information can provide detailed information about the booking
agent, airlines, car hire companies, and hotel.

3.1.2.1.  Reserving Facilities

For a meeting, the size of a room and the equipment needed depends, to some extent, on the
number of attendees actually in the room.

A meeting may have many attendees, none of which are co-located. The current "ATTENDEE"
property does not allow for the addition of such metadata. The "PARTICIPANT" component allows
attendees to specify their location.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

4.  Modiﬁcations to Calendar Components

The following changes to the syntax deﬁned in iCalendar
elements are deﬁned in subsequent sections.

[RFC5545]

 are made here. New

; Addition of PARTICIPANT, VLOCATION, and VRESOURCE
; as valid components
eventc     = "BEGIN" ":" "VEVENT" CRLF
             eventprop *alarmc *participantc *locationc *resourcec
             "END" ":" "VEVENT" CRLF

; Addition of properties STYLED-DESCRIPTION and STRUCTURED-DATA
eventprop  =/ *styleddescription
              *sdataprop

; Addition of PARTICIPANT, VLOCATION, and VRESOURCE
; as valid components
todoc      = "BEGIN" ":" "VTODO" CRLF
             todoprop *alarmc *participantc *locationc *resourcec
             "END" ":" "VTODO" CRLF

; Addition of properties STYLED-DESCRIPTION and STRUCTURED-DATA
todoprop =/ *styleddescription
            *sdataprop

; Addition of PARTICIPANT, VLOCATION, and VRESOURCE
; as valid components
journalc   = "BEGIN" ":" "VJOURNAL" CRLF
             jourprop *participantc *locationc *resourcec
             "END" ":" "VJOURNAL" CRLF

; Addition of properties STYLED-DESCRIPTION and STRUCTURED-DATA
jourprop =/ *styleddescription
            *sdataprop

; Addition of PARTICIPANT, VLOCATION, and VRESOURCE
; as valid components
freebusyc  = "BEGIN" ":" "VFREEBUSY" CRLF
             fbprop *participantc *locationc *resourcec
             "END" ":" "VFREEBUSY" CRLF

; Addition of property STYLED-DESCRIPTION
fbprop     =/ *styleddescription

5.  New Property Parameters

5.1.  Order

Parameter name:

ORDER

Purpose:

This parameter deﬁnes ordering for the associated property.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Format Deﬁnition:

This parameter is deﬁned by the following notation:

orderparam    = "ORDER" "=" integer
                ;           Must be greater than or equal to 1

Description:

The "ORDER" parameter is

OPTIONAL

 and is used to indicate the relative ordering

of the corresponding instance of a property. Its value
equal to 1 that speciﬁes the order, with 1 being the ﬁrst in the ordering.

MUST

 be an integer greater than or

When the parameter is absent, the default
MUST
ordered last, that is, the property will appear after any other instances of the same property
with any value of ORDER.

 be to interpret the property instance as being

When any "ORDER" parameters have the same value, all the associated properties appear as a
group within which there is no deﬁned order.

Note that the value of this parameter is to be interpreted only in relation to values assigned to
other corresponding instances of the same property in the same entity.

This parameter

MUST NOT

 be applied to a property that does not allow multiple instances.

Example uses:

The ORDER may be applied to the "PARTICIPANT-TYPE" property to indicate the

relative importance of the participant, for example, as a sponsor or a performer. For example,
ORDER=1 could deﬁne the principal performer or soloist.

5.2.  Schema

Parameter Name:

SCHEMA

Purpose:

This parameter speciﬁes the schema used for the content of a "STRUCTURED-DATA"

property value.

Format Deﬁnition:

This parameter is deﬁned by the following notation:

schemaparam    = "SCHEMA" "=" DQUOTE uri DQUOTE

Description:

This property parameter

SHOULD

 be speciﬁed on "STRUCTURED-DATA" properties.

When present, it provides identifying information about the nature of the content of the
corresponding "STRUCTURED-DATA" property value. This can be used to supplement the
media type information provided by the "FMTTYPE" parameter on the corresponding
property.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Example:

  STRUCTURED-DATA;FMTTYPE=application/ld+json;
   SCHEMA="https://schema.org/FlightReservation";
   ENCODING=BASE64;VALUE=BINARY:ICAgIDxzY3JpcHQgdHlwZT0iYXBwb
   GljYXRpb24vbGQranNvbiI+CiAgICB7CiAgICAgICJAY29
   udGV4dCI6ICJodHRwOi8vc2NoZW1hLm9yZyIsCiAgICAgICJAdHlwZSI
   6ICJGbGlnaHRSZXNlcnZhdGlvbiIsCiAgICAgICJyZXNlcnZhdGlvbkl
   kIjogIlJYSjM0UCIsCiAgICAgICJyZXNlcnZhdGlvblN0YXR1cyI6ICJ
   odHRwOi8vc2NoZW1hLm9yZy9SZXNlcnZhdGlvbkNvbmZpcm1lZCIsCiA
   gICAgICJwYXNzZW5nZXJQcmlvcml0eVN0YXR1cyI6ICJGYXN0IFRyYWN
   rIiwKICAgICAgInBhc3NlbmdlclNlcXVlbmNlTnVtYmVyIjogIkFCQzE
   yMyIsCiAgICAgICJzZWN1cml0eVNjcmVlbmluZyI6ICJUU0EgUHJlQ2h
   lY2siLAogICAgICAidW5kZXJOYW1lIjogewogICAgICAgICJAdHlwZSI
   6ICJQZXJzb24iLAogICAgICAgICJuYW1lIjogIkV2YSBHcmVlbiIKICA
   gICAgfSwKICAgICAgInJlc2VydmF0aW9uRm9yIjogewogICAgICAgICJ
   AdHlwZSI6ICJGbGlnaHQiLAogICAgICAgICJmbGlnaHROdW1iZXIiOiA
   iVUExMTAiLAogICAgICAgICJwcm92aWRlciI6IHsKICAgICAgICAgICJ
   AdHlwZSI6ICJBaXJsaW5lIiwKICAgICAgICAgICJuYW1lIjogIkNvbnR
   pbmVudGFsIiwKICAgICAgICAgICJpYXRhQ29kZSI6ICJDTyIsCiAgICA
   gICAgICAiYm9hcmRpbmdQb2xpY3kiOiAiaHR0cDovL3NjaGVtYS5vcmc
   vWm9uZUJvYXJkaW5nUG9saWN5IgogICAgICAgIH0sCiAgICAgICAgInN
   lbGxlciI6IHsKICAgICAgICAgICJAdHlwZSI6ICJBaXJsaW5lIiwKICA
   gICAgICAgICJuYW1lIjogIlVuaXRlZCIsCiAgICAgICAgICAiaWF0YUN
   vZGUiOiAiVUEiCiAgICAgICAgfSwKICAgICAgICAiZGVwYXJ0dXJlQWl
   ycG9ydCI6IHsKICAgICAgICAgICJAdHlwZSI6ICJBaXJwb3J0IiwKICA
   gICAgICAgICJuYW1lIjogIlNhbiBGcmFuY2lzY28gQWlycG9ydCIsCiA
   gICAgICAgICAiaWF0YUNvZGUiOiAiU0ZPIgogICAgICAgIH0sCiAgICA
   gICAgImRlcGFydHVyZVRpbWUiOiAiMjAxNy0wMy0wNFQyMDoxNTowMC0
   wODowMCIsCiAgICAgICAgImFycml2YWxBaXJwb3J0IjogewogICAgICA
   gICAgIkB0eXBlIjogIkFpcnBvcnQiLAogICAgICAgICAgIm5hbWUiOiA
   iSm9obiBGLiBLZW5uZWR5IEludGVybmF0aW9uYWwgQWlycG9ydCIsCiA
   gICAgICAgICAiaWF0YUNvZGUiOiAiSkZLIgogICAgICAgIH0sCiAgICA
   gICAgImFycml2YWxUaW1lIjogIjIwMTctMDMtMDVUMDY6MzA6MDAtMDU
   6MDAiCiAgICAgIH0KICAgIH0KICAgIDwvc2NyaXB0Pg==

5.3.  Derived

Parameter Name:

DERIVED

Purpose:

This parameter speciﬁes that the value of the associated property is derived from

some other property value or values.

Format Deﬁnition:

This parameter is deﬁned by the following notation:

derivedparam    = "DERIVED" "=" ("TRUE" / "FALSE")
; Default is FALSE

Description:

This property parameter

MAY

 be speciﬁed on any property when the value is

derived from some other property or properties. When present with a value of TRUE, clients
MUST NOT

 update the property.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

As an example, if a "STYLED-DESCRIPTION" property is present with FMTTYPE="application/
rtf", then there may be an additional "STYLED-DESCRIPTION" property with FMTTYPE="text/
html" and DERIVED=TRUE, as well as a value created from the rtf value.

Example:

STYLED-DESCRIPTION;FMTTYPE=text/html;
 DERIVED=TRUE:<html>...</html>

6.  New Properties

This speciﬁcation makes use of the "NAME" property, which is deﬁned in

[RFC7986]
.

6.1.  Location Type

Property Name:

LOCATION-TYPE

Purpose:

This property speciﬁes the type(s) of a location.

Value Type:

The value type for this property is TEXT. The allowable values are deﬁned below.

Description:

This property

 be speciﬁed in "VLOCATION" components and provides a way
to diﬀerentiate multiple locations. For example, it allows event producers to provide location
information for the venue and the parking.

MAY

Format Deﬁnition:

This property is deﬁned by the following notation:

loctype      = "LOCATION-TYPE" loctypeparam ":"
               text *("," text)
               CRLF

loctypeparam   = *(";" other-param)

Multiple values may be used if the location has multiple purposes, for example, a hotel and a
restaurant.

Values for this parameter are taken from the values deﬁned in
location types

 be registered in the manner laid down in

SHOULD

Section 3 of [RFC4589]

Section 5 of [RFC4589]

. New
.

6.2.  Participant Type

Property Name:

PARTICIPANT-TYPE

Purpose:

This property speciﬁes the type of participant.

Value Type:

The value type for this property is TEXT. The allowable values are deﬁned below.

Property Parameters:

Nonstandard parameters can be speciﬁed on this property.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Conformance:

This property

MUST

 be speciﬁed once within a "PARTICIPANT" component.

Description:

This property deﬁnes the type of participation in events or tasks. Participants can
be individuals or organizations, for example, a soccer team, the spectators, or the musicians.

Format Deﬁnition:

This property is deﬁned by the following notation:

participanttype   = "PARTICIPANT-TYPE" partvalueparam ":"
                     partvalue CRLF

partvalue    = ("ACTIVE"
               / "INACTIVE"
               / "SPONSOR"
               / "CONTACT"
               / "BOOKING-CONTACT"
               / "EMERGENCY-CONTACT"
               / "PUBLICITY-CONTACT"
               / "PLANNER-CONTACT"
               / "PERFORMER"
               / "SPEAKER"
               / iana-token)     ; Other IANA-registered
                                 ; values

partvalueparam   = *(";" other-param)

Example:

The following is an example of this property.

PARTICIPANT-TYPE:SPEAKER

The registered values for the "PARTICIPANT-TYPE" property have the meanings described here:

ACTIVE:

A participant taking an active role -- for example, a team member.

INACTIVE:

A participant taking an inactive role -- for example, an audience member.

SPONSOR:

A sponsor of the event. The "ORDER" parameter may be used with this participant

type to deﬁne the relative order of multiple sponsors.

CONTACT:

Contact information for the event. The "ORDER" parameter may be used with this

participant type to deﬁne the relative order of multiple contacts.

BOOKING-CONTACT:

Contact information for reservations or payment.

EMERGENCY-CONTACT:

Contact in case of emergency.

PUBLICITY-CONTACT:

Contact for publicity.

PLANNER-CONTACT:

Contact for the event planner or organizer.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

PERFORMER:

A performer -- for example, the soloist or the accompanist. The "ORDER"

parameter may be used with this participant type to deﬁne the relative order of multiple
performers. For example, ORDER=1 could deﬁne the principal performer or soloist.

SPEAKER:

Speaker at an event.

6.3.  Resource Type

Property Name:

RESOURCE-TYPE

Purpose:

This property speciﬁes the type of resource.

Value Type:

The value type for this property is TEXT. The allowable values are deﬁned below.

Format Deﬁnition:

This property is deﬁned by the following notation:

restypeprop   = "RESOURCE-TYPE" restypeparam ":"
                restypevalue CRLF

restypevalue  = ("ROOM"
               / "PROJECTOR"
               / "REMOTE-CONFERENCE-AUDIO"
               / "REMOTE-CONFERENCE-VIDEO"
               / iana-token)     ; Other IANA-registered
               ; values

restypeparam   = *(";" other-param)

Description:

This property
to diﬀerentiate multiple resources.

MAY

 be speciﬁed in "VRESOURCE" components and provides a way

The registered values are described below. New resource types
manner laid down in this speciﬁcation.

SHOULD

 be registered in the

ROOM:

A room for the event/meeting.

PROJECTOR:

Projection equipment.

REMOTE-CONFERENCE-AUDIO:

Audio remote conferencing facilities.

REMOTE-CONFERENCE-VIDEO:

Video remote conferencing facilities.

6.4.  Calendar Address

Property Name:

CALENDAR-ADDRESS

Purpose:

This property speciﬁes the calendar address for a participant.

Value Type:

CAL-ADDRESS

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Property Parameters:
this property.

IANA-registered or nonstandard property parameters can be speciﬁed on

Conformance:

This property

MAY

 be speciﬁed once within a "PARTICIPANT" component.

Description:

This property provides a calendar user address for the participant. If there is an

"ATTENDEE" property with the same value, then the participant is schedulable.

Format Deﬁnition:

This property is deﬁned by the following notation:

calendaraddress   = "CALENDAR-ADDRESS" caladdressparam ":"
               cal-address CRLF

caladdressparam   = *(";" other-param)

6.5.  Styled-Description

Property Name:

STYLED-DESCRIPTION

Purpose:

This property provides for one or more rich-text descriptions to replace that provided

by the "DESCRIPTION" property.

Value Type:

There is no default value type for this property. The value type can be set to URI or

TEXT. Other text-based value types can be used when deﬁned in the future. Clients
ignore any properties with value types they do not understand.

MUST

Property Parameters:

IANA-registered, nonstandard, id, alternate text representation, format

type, derived, and language property parameters can be speciﬁed on this property.

Conformance:

The property can be speciﬁed multiple times in the "VEVENT", "VTODO",

"VJOURNAL", "VFREEBUSY", "PARTICIPANT", or "VALARM" calendar components.

If it does appear more than once, there
"DERIVED" parameter or DERIVED=FALSE. All others

MUST

 be exactly one instance of the property with no

MUST

 have DERIVED=TRUE.

Additionally, if there is one or more "STYLED-DESCRIPTION" property, then the
"DESCRIPTION" property should either be absent or have the parameter DERIVED=TRUE.

Description:

This property supports rich-text descriptions, for example, HTML. Event
publishers typically wish to provide more and better-formatted information about the event.

This property is used in the "VEVENT" and "VTODO" components to capture lengthy textual
descriptions associated with the activity. This property is used in the "VJOURNAL" calendar
component to capture one or more textual journal entries. This property is used in the
"VALARM" calendar component to capture the display text for a DISPLAY category of alarm
and to capture the body text for an EMAIL category of alarm. In the "PARTICIPANT"
component, it provides a detailed description of the participant.

VALUE=TEXT is used to provide rich text inline as the property value.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

VALUE=URI is used to provide a link to rich-text content, which is expected to be displayed
inline as part of the event.

In either case, the "DESCRIPTION" property should be absent or contain a plain-text rendering
of the styled text.

MAY

 attempt to guess the media type of the resource via inspection of its content

Applications
if and only if the media type of the resource is not given by the "FMTTYPE" parameter. If the
 treat it as type "text/html" and
media type remains unknown, calendar applications
.
process the content as deﬁned in

SHOULD
[W3C.REC-html51-20171003]

Multiple "STYLED-DESCRIPTION" properties may be used to provide diﬀerent formats or
diﬀerent language variants. However, all but one

 have DERIVED=TRUE.

MUST

Format Deﬁnition:

This property is deﬁned by the following notation:

styleddescription = "STYLED-DESCRIPTION" styleddescparam ":"
                   styleddescval CRLF

styleddescparam   = *(
                   ; The following is REQUIRED
                   ; but MUST NOT occur more than once.
                   ;
                   (";" "VALUE" "=" ("URI" / "TEXT")) /
                   ;
                   ; The following are OPTIONAL
                   ; but MUST NOT occur more than once.
                   ;
                   (";" altrepparam) / (";" languageparam) /
                   (";" fmttypeparam) / (";" derivedparam) /
                   ;
                   ; The following is OPTIONAL
                   ; and MAY occur more than once.
                   ;
                   (";" other-param)
                   )

styleddescval   = ( uri / text )
;Value MUST match value type

Example:

The following is an example of this property. It points to an HTML description.

STYLED-DESCRIPTION;VALUE=URI:http://example.org/desc001.html

6.6.  Structured-Data

Property Name:

STRUCTURED-DATA

Purpose:

This property speciﬁes ancillary data associated with the calendar component.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Value Type:

There is no default value type for this property. The value type can be set to TEXT,

BINARY, or URI.

Property Parameters:

IANA-registered, nonstandard, inline encoding, and value data type

property parameters can be speciﬁed on this property. The format type and schema
parameters can be speciﬁed on this property and
encoded content information.

 be present for text or inline binary

MUST

Conformance:

This property can be speciﬁed multiple times in an iCalendar object. Typically, it

would be used in the "VEVENT", "VTODO", or "VJOURNAL" calendar components.

Description:

The existing properties in iCalendar cover key elements of events and tasks, such
as start time, end time, location, summary, etc. However, diﬀerent types of events often have
other speciﬁc "ﬁelds" that are useful to include in the calendar data. For example, an event
representing an airline ﬂight could include the airline, ﬂight number, departure and arrival
airport codes, check-in and gate-closing times, etc. As another example, a sporting event might
contain information about the type of sport, the home and away teams, the league the teams
are in, information about nearby parking, etc.

This property is used to specify ancillary data in some structured format, either directly
(inline) as a "TEXT" or "BINARY" value or as a link via a "URI" value.

Rather than deﬁne new iCalendar properties for the variety of event types that might occur, it
would be better to leverage existing schemas for such data. For example, schemas available at
<https://schema.org>
interoperability can be improved between calendar clients and noncalendaring systems that
wish to generate or process the data.

 include diﬀerent event types. By using standard schemas,

This property allows the direct inclusion of ancillary data whose schema is deﬁned elsewhere.
This property also includes parameters to clearly identify the type of the schema being used
so that clients can quickly and easily spot what is relevant within the calendar data and
present that to users or process it within the calendaring system.

iCalendar does support an "ATTACH" property, which can be used to include documents or
links to documents within the calendar data. However, that property does not allow data to be
included as a "TEXT" value (a feature that "STRUCTURED-DATA" does allow), plus attachments
are often treated as "opaque" data to be processed by some other system rather than the
calendar client. Thus, the existing "ATTACH" property is not suﬃcient to cover the speciﬁc
needs of inclusion of schema data. Extending the "ATTACH" property to support a new value
type would likely cause interoperability problems. Additionally, some implementations
manage attachments by stripping them out and replacing with a link to the resource. Thus, a
new property to support inclusion of schema data is warranted.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Format Deﬁnition:

This property is deﬁned by the following notation:

sdataprop    = "STRUCTURED-DATA" sdataparam
                 (
                   ";" "VALUE" "=" "TEXT"
                   ":" text
                 ) /
                 (
                   ";" "ENCODING" "=" "BASE64"
                   ";" "VALUE" "=" "BINARY"
                   ";" binary
                 ) /
                 (
                   ";" "VALUE" "=" "URI"
                   ":" uri
                 )
                 CRLF

sdataparam  = *(
                 ;
                 ; The following is OPTIONAL for a URI value,
                 ; REQUIRED for a TEXT or BINARY value,
                 ; and MUST NOT occur more than once.
                 ;
                 (";" fmttypeparam) /
                 (";" schemaparam) /
                 ;
                 ; The following is OPTIONAL
                 ; and MAY occur more than once.
                 ;
                 (";" other-param)
                 ;
              )

Example:

The following is an example of this property.

STRUCTURED-DATA;FMTTYPE=application/ld+json;
 SCHEMA="https://schema.org/SportsEvent";
 VALUE=TEXT:{\n
   "@context": "http://schema.org"\,\n
   "@type": "SportsEvent"\,\n
   "homeTeam": "Pittsburgh Pirates"\,\n
   "awayTeam": "San Francisco Giants"\n
 }\n

7.  New Components

7.1.  Participant

Component name:

PARTICIPANT

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Purpose:

This component provides information about a participant in an event or task.

Conformance:

This component can be speciﬁed multiple times in a "VEVENT", "VTODO",

"VJOURNAL", or "VFREEBUSY" calendar component.

Description:

This component provides information about a participant in a calendar

component. A participant may be an attendee in a scheduling sense, and the "ATTENDEE"
property may be speciﬁed in addition. Participants can be individuals or organizations, for
example, a soccer team, the spectators, or the musicians.

"STRUCTURED-DATA" properties, if present, may refer to deﬁnitions of the participant -- such
as a vCard.

The "CALENDAR-ADDRESS" property, if present, will provide a cal-address. If an "ATTENDEE"
property has the same value, the participant is considered schedulable. The "PARTICIPANT"
component can be used to contain additional metadata related to the attendee.

Format Deﬁnition:

This component is deﬁned by the following notation:

participantc = "BEGIN" ":" "PARTICIPANT" CRLF
               partprop *locationc *resourcec
               "END" ":" "PARTICIPANT" CRLF

partprop     = *(
               ;
               ; The following are REQUIRED
               ; but MUST NOT occur more than once.
               ;
               participanttype / uid /
               ;
               ; The following are OPTIONAL
               ; but MUST NOT occur more than once.
               ;
               calendaraddress / created / description / dtstamp /
               geo / last-mod / priority / seq /
               status / summary / url /
               ;
               ; The following are OPTIONAL
               ; and MAY occur more than once.
               ;
               attach / categories / comment
               contact / location / rstatus / related /
               resources / strucloc / strucres /
               styleddescription / sdataprop / iana-prop
               ;
               )

Note:

When the "PRIORITY" property is supplied, it deﬁnes the ordering of "PARTICIPANT"

components with the same value for the "PARTICIPANT-TYPE" property.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Privacy Issues:

When a "LOCATION" property is supplied, it provides information about the

location of a participant at a given time or times. This may represent an unacceptable privacy
risk for some participants. User agents
express permission of the participants whose location would be exposed. For further
comments, see Section 10.

 broadcast this information without the

MUST NOT

Example:

The following is an example of this component. It contains a "STRUCTURED-DATA"

property that points to a vCard providing information about the event participant.

BEGIN:PARTICIPANT
UID: em9lQGZvb2GFtcGxlLmNvbQ
PARTICIPANT-TYPE:PERFORMER
STRUCTURED-DATA;VALUE=URI:
 http://dir.example.com/vcard/aviolinist.vcf
END:PARTICIPANT

Example:

The following is an example for the primary contact.

BEGIN:PARTICIPANT
UID: em9lQGZvb2GFtcGxlLmNvbQ
STRUCTURED-DATA;VALUE=URI;
 http://dir.example.com/vcard/contacts/contact1.vcf
PARTICIPANT-TYPE:CONTACT
DESCRIPTION:A contact
END:PARTICIPANT

Example:

The following is an example for a participant with contact and location.

BEGIN:PARTICIPANT
UID: em9lQGZvb2GFtcGxlLmNdrt
STRUCTURED-DATA;VALUE=URI;
 http://dir.example.com/vcard/contacts/my-card.vcf
PARTICIPANT-TYPE:SPEAKER
DESCRIPTION:A participant
BEGIN:VLOCATION
UID:123456-abcdef-98765432
NAME:My home location
STRUCTURED-DATA;VALUE=URI:
 http://dir.example.com/addresses/my-home.vcf
END:VLOCATION
END:PARTICIPANT

7.1.1.  Schedulable Participant

A "PARTICIPANT" component may represent someone or something that needs to be scheduled,
as deﬁned for ATTENDEE in
. The "PARTICIPANT" component may also
[RFC5546]
represent someone or something that is NOT to receive scheduling messages.

[RFC5545]

 and

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

For backwards compatibility with existing clients and servers when used to schedule events and
tasks, the "ATTENDEE" property
for that property.

 be used to specify the scheduling parameters as deﬁned

MUST

For other, future uses, the "CALENDAR-ADDRESS" property
parameters.

MUST

 be used to specify those

A "PARTICIPANT" component is deﬁned to be schedulable if:

•

it contains a "CALENDAR-ADDRESS" property and

•

that property value is the same as the value for an "ATTENDEE" property.

If both of these conditions apply, then the participant deﬁned by the value of the URL property
will take part in scheduling operations, as deﬁned in

[RFC5546]

.

An appropriate use for the "PARTICIPANT" component in scheduling would be to store
"SEQUENCE" and "DTSTAMP" properties associated with replies from each "ATTENDEE" property.
A "LOCATION" property within the "PARTICIPANT" component might allow better selection of
meeting times when participants are in diﬀerent time zones.

7.2.  Location

Component name:

VLOCATION

Purpose:

This component provides rich information about the location of an event using the

structured data property or, optionally, a plain-text typed value.

Conformance:

This component can be speciﬁed multiple times in a "VEVENT", "VTODO",

"VJOURNAL", "VFREEBUSY", or "PARTICIPANT" calendar component.

Description:

There may be a number of locations associated with an event. This component

provides detailed information about a location.

When used in a component, the value of this property provides information about the event
venue or of related services, such as parking, dining, stations, etc.

"STRUCTURED-DATA" properties, if present, may refer to representations of the location --
such as a vCard.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Format Deﬁnition:

This component is deﬁned by the following notation:

locationc    = "BEGIN" ":" "VLOCATION" CRLF
               locprop
               "END" ":" "VLOCATION" CRLF

locprop      = *(
               ;
               ; The following are REQUIRED
               ; but MUST NOT occur more than once.
               ;
               uid /
               ;
               ; The following are OPTIONAL
               ; but MUST NOT occur more than once.
               ;
               description / geo / loctype / name
               ;
               ; The following are OPTIONAL
               ; and MAY occur more than once.
               ;
               sdataprop / iana-prop
            )

The "NAME" property is deﬁned in

[RFC7986]

.

Example:

The following is an example of this component. It points to a venue.

BEGIN:VLOCATION
UID:123456-abcdef-98765432
NAME:The venue
STRUCTURED-DATA;VALUE=URI:
 http://dir.example.com/venues/big-hall.vcf
END:VLOCATION

7.3.  Resource

Component name:

VRESOURCE

Purpose:

This component provides a typed reference to external information about a resource

or, optionally, a plain-text typed value. Typically, a resource is anything that might be
required or used by a calendar entity and possibly has a directory entry.

Conformance:

This component can be speciﬁed multiple times in a "VEVENT", "VTODO",

"VJOURNAL", "VFREEBUSY", or "PARTICIPANT" calendar component.

Description:

When used in a component, this component provides information about resources

used for the event, such as rooms, projectors, and conferencing capabilities.

The RESOURCE-TYPE value registry provides a place in which resource types may be
registered.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

"STRUCTURED-DATA" properties, if present, may refer to representations of the resource --
such as a vCard.

Format Deﬁnition:

This component is deﬁned by the following notation:

resourcec    = "BEGIN" ":" "VRESOURCE" CRLF
               resprop
               "END" ":" "VRESOURCE" CRLF

resprop      = *(
               ;
               ; The following are REQUIRED
               ; but MUST NOT occur more than once.
               ;
               uid /
               ;
               ; The following are OPTIONAL
               ; but MUST NOT occur more than once.
               ;
               description / geo / name / restype /
               ;
               ; The following are OPTIONAL
               ; and MAY occur more than once.
               ;
               sdataprop / iana-prop
             )

The "NAME" property is deﬁned in

[RFC7986]

.

Example:

The following is an example of this component. It refers to a projector.

BEGIN:VRESOURCE
UID:456789-abcdef-98765432
NAME:The projector
RESOURCE-TYPE:projector
STRUCTURED-DATA;VALUE=URI:http://dir.example.com/projectors/3d.vcf
END:VRESOURCE

8.  Extended Examples

The following are some examples of the use of the properties deﬁned in this speciﬁcation. They
include additional properties deﬁned in

, which includes "IMAGE".

[RFC7986]

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

8.1.  Example 1

The following is an example of a "VEVENT" describing a concert. It includes location information
for the venue itself, as well as references to parking and restaurants.

BEGIN:VEVENT
CREATED:20200215T145739Z
DESCRIPTION: Piano Sonata No 3\n
 Piano Sonata No 30
DTSTAMP:20200215T145739Z
DTSTART;TZID=America/New_York:20200315T150000Z
DTEND;TZID=America/New_York:20200315T163000Z
LAST-MODIFIED:20200216T145739Z
SUMMARY:Beethoven Piano Sonatas
UID:123456
IMAGE;VALUE=URI;DISPLAY=BADGE;FMTTYPE=image/png:h
 ttp://example.com/images/concert.png
BEGIN:PARTICIPANT
PARTICIPANT-TYPE:SPONSOR
UID:dG9tQGZvb2Jhci5xlLmNvbQ
STRUCTURED-DATA;VALUE=URI:http://example.com/sponsor.vcf
END:PARTICIPANT
BEGIN:PARTICIPANT
PARTICIPANT-TYPE:PERFORMER:
UID:em9lQGZvb2GFtcGxlLmNvbQ
STRUCTURED-DATA;VALUE=URI:http://www.example.com/people/johndoe.vcf
END:PARTICIPANT
BEGIN:VLOCATION
UID:123456-abcdef-98765432
NAME:The venue
STRUCTURED-DATA;VALUE=URI:http://dir.example.com/venues/big-hall.vcf
END:VLOCATION
BEGIN:VLOCATION
UID:123456-abcdef-87654321
NAME:Parking for the venue
STRUCTURED-DATA;VALUE=URI:http://dir.example.com/venues/parking.vcf
END:VLOCATION
END:VEVENT

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

8.2.  Example 2

The following is an example of a "VEVENT" describing a meeting. One of the attendees is a
remote participant.

BEGIN:VEVENT
CREATED:20200215T145739Z
DTSTAMP:20200215T145739Z
DTSTART;TZID=America/New_York:20200315T150000Z
DTEND;TZID=America/New_York:20200315T163000Z
LAST-MODIFIED:20200216T145739Z
SUMMARY:Conference planning
UID:123456
ORGANIZER:mailto:a@example.com
ATTENDEE;PARTSTAT=ACCEPTED;CN=A:mailto:a@example.com
ATTENDEE;RSVP=TRUE;CN=B:mailto:b@example.com
BEGIN:PARTICIPANT
PARTICIPANT-TYPE:ACTIVE:
UID:v39lQGZvb2GFtcGxlLmNvbQ
STRUCTURED-DATA;VALUE=URI:http://www.example.com/people/b.vcf
LOCATION:At home
END:PARTICIPANT
END:VEVENT

9.  Security Considerations

This speciﬁcation extends
calendar data is not unique in this regard, it is worth reminding implementors of some of the
dangers and safeguards.

 and makes further use of possibly linked data. While

[RFC5545]

9.1.  URIs

 for a discussion of the security considerations relating to URIs. Because of the

[RFC3986]

See
issues discussed there and below, clients
automatically and should only do so at the explicit request of the user.

SHOULD NOT

 follow URIs and fetch content

Fetching remote resources carries inherent risks. Connections must only be allowed on well-
known ports, using allowed protocols (generally just HTTP/HTTPS on their default ports). The
URL must be resolved externally and not allowed to access internal resources. Connecting to an
external source reveals IP (and therefore generally location) information.

A maliciously constructed iCalendar object may contain a very large number of URIs. In the case
of published calendars with a large number of subscribers, such objects could be widely
distributed. Implementations should be careful to limit the automatic fetching of linked
resources to reduce the risk of this being an ampliﬁcation vector for a denial-of-service attack.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

9.2.  Malicious Content

For the "STRUCTURED-DATA" property, agents need to be aware that a client could attack
underlying storage by sending extremely large values and could attack processing time by
uploading a recurring event with a large number of overrides and then repeatedly adding,
updating, and deleting structured data.

Agents should set reasonable limits on storage size and number of instances and apply those
constraints. Calendar protocols should ensure there is a way to report on such limits being
exceeded.

Malicious content could be introduced into the calendar server by way of the "STRUCTURED-
DATA" property and propagated to many end users via scheduling. Servers
property for malicious or inappropriate content. Upon detecting such content, servers
remove the property.

 check this
SHOULD

SHOULD

9.3.  HTML Content

When processing HTML content, applications need to be aware of the many security and privacy
issues, as described in the IANA Considerations section of

[W3C.REC-html51-20171003]
.

10.  Privacy Considerations

10.1.  Tracking

Properties with a "URI" value type can expose their users to privacy leaks, as any network access
of the URI data can be tracked both by a network observer and by the entity hosting the remote
resource. Clients
SHOULD NOT
explicit instruction from users.

 automatically download data referenced by the URI without

To help alleviate some of the concerns, protocols and services could provide proxy services for
downloading referenced data.

10.2.  Revealing Locations

The addition of location information to the new participant component provides information
about the location of participants at a given time. This information
other participants without those participant's express permission. Note that there may be a
number of participants who may be unaware of their inclusion in the data.

 be distributed to

MUST NOT

Agents processing and distributing calendar data must be aware that it has the property of
providing information about a future time when a given individual may be at a particular
location, which could enable targeted attacks against that individual.

The same may be true of other information contained in the participant component. In general,
revealing only as much as is absolutely necessary should be the approach taken.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

For example, there may be some privacy considerations relating to the "ORDER" parameter, as it
provides an indication of the organizer's perception of the relative importance of other
participants.

11.  IANA Considerations

11.1.  Additional iCalendar Registrations

11.1.1.  Properties

This document deﬁnes the following iCalendar properties that have been added to the
"Properties" registry deﬁned in

Section 8.2.3 of [RFC5545]

:

Property

Status

Reference

CALENDAR-ADDRESS

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.4

LOCATION-TYPE

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.1

PARTICIPANT-TYPE

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.2

RESOURCE-TYPE

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.3

STRUCTURED-DATA

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.6

STYLED-DESCRIPTION Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.5

Table 1: Additions to the Properties Registry

11.1.2.  Parameters

This document deﬁnes the following iCalendar property parameters that have been added to the
"Parameters" registry deﬁned in

:
Section 8.2.4 of [RFC5545]

Parameter

Status

Reference

ORDER

Current

RFC 9073, Section 5.1

SCHEMA

Current

RFC 9073, Section 5.2

DERIVED

Current

RFC 9073, Section 5.3

Table 2: Additions to the Parameters Registry

11.1.3.  Components

This document deﬁnes the following iCalendar components that have been added to the
"Components" registry deﬁned in

Section 8.3.1 of [RFC5545]

:

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Component

Status

Reference

PARTICIPANT

Current

RFC 9073, Section 7.1

VLOCATION

Current

RFC 9073, Section 7.2

VRESOURCE

Current

RFC 9073, Section 7.3

Table 3: Additions to the Components Registry

11.2.  Participant Types and Resource Types Registries

This section deﬁnes new registration tables for PARTICIPANT-TYPE and RESOURCE-TYPE values.
These tables are updated using the same approaches laid down in

.
Section 8.2.1 of [RFC5545]

[RFC8126]

, new tokens are

This document creates new IANA registries for participant and resource types. IANA will
maintain these registries and, following the policies outlined in
assigned after Expert Review. The Expert Reviewer will generally consult the IETF GEOPRIV
Working Group mailing list or its designated successor. Updates or deletions of tokens from the
registration follow the same procedures. The Expert Review should be guided by a few common-
sense considerations. For example, tokens should not be speciﬁc to a country, region,
organization, or company; they should be well deﬁned and widely recognized. The Expert's
support of IANA will include providing IANA with the new token(s) when the update is provided
only in the form of a schema and providing IANA with the new schema element(s) when the
update is provided only in the form of a token. To ensure widespread usability across protocols,
tokens
. Each
[W3C.REC-xml-20040204]
registration must include the name of the token and a brief description similar to the ones
oﬀered herein for the initial registrations contained this document.

 follow the character set restrictions for XML Names

MUST

11.2.1.  Participant Types

Participant Type

Status

Reference

ACTIVE

INACTIVE

SPONSOR

CONTACT

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.2

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.2

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.2

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.2

BOOKING-CONTACT

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.2

EMERGENCY-CONTACT

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.2

PUBLICITY-CONTACT

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.2

PLANNER-CONTACT

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.2

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Participant Type

Status

Reference

PERFORMER

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.2

SPEAKER

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.2

Table 4: Initial Contents of the Participant Types Registry

11.2.2.  Resource Types

Resource Type

Status

Reference

PROJECTOR

ROOM

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.3

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.3

REMOTE-CONFERENCE-AUDIO

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.3

REMOTE-CONFERENCE-VIDEO

Current

RFC 9073, Section 6.3

Table 5: Initial Contents of the Resource Types Registry

12.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

[RFC4589]

[RFC5234]

[RFC5545]

[RFC5546]

[RFC6350]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

,

.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):

, January 2005,

Schulzrinne, H.
10.17487/RFC4589

 and

H. Tschofenig "Location Types Registry" RFC 4589 DOI

,

,

, July 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4589>

,
.

 and
Crocker, D., Ed.
,
,
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:

, January 2008,

<https://

Desruisseaux, B., Ed. "Internet Calendaring and Scheduling Core Object
,
Speciﬁcation (iCalendar)" RFC 5545 DOI 10.17487/RFC5545
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5545>

.

,

,

, September 2009,

,

Daboo, C., Ed. "iCalendar Transport-Independent Interoperability Protocol
<https://www.rfc-
(iTIP)" RFC 5546 DOI 10.17487/RFC5546
editor.org/info/rfc5546>

, December 2009,

,

,

.

,
Perreault, S. "vCard Format Speciﬁcation" RFC 6350 DOI 10.17487/RFC6350
August 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6350>

,

.

,

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

[RFC7986]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8259]

Daboo, C. "New Properties for iCalendar" RFC 7986 DOI 10.17487/RFC7986
October 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7986>

,

.

,

,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

.

,

,

,

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

[W3C.REC-html51-20171003]

,

Faulkner, S., Ed. Eicholz, A., Ed. Leithead, T., Ed.
Ed. "HTML 5.1 2nd Edition" World Wide Web Consortium Recommendation
REC-html51-20171003
html51-20171003>

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2017/REC-

, October 2017,

, and

,

,

,

.

A. Danilo,

[W3C.REC-xml-20040204]

Sperberg-McQueen, M. Maler, E. Bray, T. Paoli, J.
"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Third Edition)" World Wide Web
Consortium Recommendation REC-xml-20040204
<https://
www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-xml-20040204>

,
, February 2004,

, and

.

,

,

,

F. Yergeau

,

[W3C.REC-xml-20081126]

,
Bray, T., Ed. Paoli, J., Ed. Sperberg-McQueen, M., Ed. Maler, E., Ed.

,

,

,

F. Yergeau, Ed. "Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Fifth Edition)"

and
World Wide Web Consortium Recommendation REC-xml-20081126
2008,

<https://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-xml-20081126>

,

.

, November

,

Acknowledgements

The author would like to thank
development of this RFC.

Chuck Norris

 of eventful.com for his work, which led to the

The author would also like to thank the members of CalConnect: The Calendaring and Scheduling
Consortium, the Event Publication technical committee, and the following individuals for
contributing their ideas and support:

Cyrus Daboo John Haug Dan Mendell Ken Murchison

,

,

,

, and

Scott Otis

.

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9073

Event Publishing Extensions to iCalendar

August 2021

Author's Address

Michael Douglass
Bedework
226 3rd Street
Troy NY 12180
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 http://bedework.com

,

 mdouglass@bedework.com

Douglass

Standards Track

Page 29

