Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9168
Standards Track
January 2022
2070-1721
D. Dhody
Huawei Technologies

A. Farrel
Old Dog Consulting

Z. Li
Huawei Technologies

RFC 9168
Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
(PCEP) Extension for Flow Speciﬁcation

Abstract

The Path Computation Element (PCE) is a functional component capable of selecting paths
through a traﬃc engineering (TE) network. These paths may be supplied in response to requests
for computation or may be unsolicited requests issued by the PCE to network elements. Both
approaches use the PCE Communication Protocol (PCEP) to convey the details of the computed
path.

Traﬃc ﬂows may be categorized and described using "Flow Speciﬁcations". RFC 8955 deﬁnes the
Flow Speciﬁcation and describes how Flow Speciﬁcation components are used to describe traﬃc
ﬂows. RFC 8955 also deﬁnes how Flow Speciﬁcations may be distributed in BGP to allow speciﬁc
traﬃc ﬂows to be associated with routes.

This document speciﬁes a set of extensions to PCEP to support dissemination of Flow
Speciﬁcations. This allows a PCE to indicate what traﬃc should be placed on each path that it is
aware of.

The extensions deﬁned in this document include the creation, update, and withdrawal of Flow
Speciﬁcations via PCEP and can be applied to tunnels initiated by the PCE or to tunnels where
control is delegated to the PCE by the Path Computation Client (PCC). Furthermore, a PCC
requesting a new path can include Flow Speciﬁcations in the request to indicate the purpose of
the tunnel allowing the PCE to factor this into the path computation.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9168
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Procedures for PCE Use of Flow Speciﬁcations

3.1.  Context for PCE Use of Flow Speciﬁcations

3.2.  Elements of the Procedure

3.2.1.  Capability Advertisement

3.2.1.1.  PCEP Open Message

3.2.1.2.  IGP PCE Capabilities Advertisement

3.2.2.  Dissemination Procedures

3.2.3.  Flow Speciﬁcation Synchronization

4.  PCE FlowSpec Capability TLV

5.  PCEP FLOWSPEC Object

6.  Flow Filter TLV

7.  Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs

8.  Detailed Procedures

8.1.  Default Behavior and Backward Compatibility

8.2.  Composite Flow Speciﬁcations

8.3.  Modifying Flow Speciﬁcations

8.4.  Multiple Flow Speciﬁcations

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

8.5.  Adding and Removing Flow Speciﬁcations

8.6.  VPN Identiﬁers

8.7.  Priorities and Overlapping Flow Speciﬁcations

9.  PCEP Messages

10. IANA Considerations

10.1.  PCEP Objects

10.1.1.  PCEP FLOWSPEC Object Flag Field

10.2.  PCEP TLV Type Indicators

10.3.  Flow Speciﬁcation TLV Type Indicators

10.4.  PCEP Error Codes

10.5.  PCE Capability Flag

11. Security Considerations

12. Manageability Considerations

12.1.  Management of Multiple Flow Speciﬁcations

12.2.  Control of Function through Conﬁguration and Policy

12.3.  Information and Data Models

12.4.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

12.5.  Verifying Correct Operation

12.6.  Requirements for Other Protocols and Functional Components

12.7.  Impact on Network Operation

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

1.  Introduction

 deﬁnes the Path Computation Element (PCE), a functional component capable of

[RFC4655]
computing paths for use in traﬃc engineering networks. PCE was originally conceived for use in
Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) for traﬃc engineering (TE) networks to derive the routes of
Label Switched Paths (LSPs). However, the scope of PCE was quickly extended to make it
applicable to networks controlled by Generalized MPLS (GMPLS), and more recent work has
brought other traﬃc engineering technologies and planning applications into scope (for
example, Segment Routing (SR)

[RFC8664]

).

 describes the PCE Communication Protocol (PCEP). PCEP deﬁnes the communication

[RFC5440]
between a Path Computation Client (PCC) and a PCE, or between PCE and PCE, enabling
computation of the path for MPLS-TE LSPs.

[RFC8231]

 speciﬁes a set of extensions to PCEP to enable control of TE-LSPs by a PCE
 describes

Stateful PCE
that retains state about the LSPs provisioned in the network (a stateful PCE).
the setup, maintenance, and teardown of LSPs initiated by a stateful PCE without the need for
local conﬁguration on the PCC, thus allowing for a dynamic network that is centrally controlled.
[RFC8283]
be viewed as a component that performs computation to place "ﬂows" within the network and
decide how these ﬂows are routed.

 introduces the architecture for PCE as a central controller and describes how PCE can

[RFC8281]

The description of traﬃc ﬂows by the combination of multiple Flow Speciﬁcation components
and their dissemination as traﬃc ﬂow speciﬁcations (Flow Speciﬁcations) is described for BGP in
. In BGP, a Flow Speciﬁcation is comprised of traﬃc ﬁltering rules and is associated with
[RFC8955]
actions to perform on the packets that match the Flow Speciﬁcation. The BGP routers that receive
a Flow Speciﬁcation can classify received packets according to the traﬃc ﬁltering rules and can
direct packets based on the associated actions.

When a PCE is used to initiate tunnels (such as TE-LSPs or SR paths) using PCEP, it is important
that the head end of the tunnels understands what traﬃc to place on each tunnel. The data ﬂows
intended for a tunnel can be described using Flow Speciﬁcation components. When PCEP is in use
for tunnel initiation, it makes sense for that same protocol to be used to distribute the Flow
Speciﬁcation components that describe what data is to ﬂow on those tunnels.

This document speciﬁes a set of extensions to PCEP to support dissemination of Flow
Speciﬁcation components. We term the description of a traﬃc ﬂow using Flow Speciﬁcation
components as a "Flow Speciﬁcation". This term is conceptually the same as the term used in
[RFC8955]
Speciﬁcation because there is only one action that is applicable in the PCEP context (that is,
directing the matching traﬃc to the identiﬁed LSP).

; however, no mechanism is provided to distribute an action associated with the Flow

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

The extensions deﬁned in this document include the creation, update, and withdrawal of Flow
Speciﬁcations via PCEP and can be applied to tunnels initiated by the PCE or to tunnels where
control is delegated to the PCE by the PCC. Furthermore, a PCC requesting a new path can include
Flow Speciﬁcations in the request to indicate the purpose of the tunnel allowing the PCE to factor
this into the path computation.

Flow Speciﬁcations are carried in TLVs within a new object called the FLOWSPEC object deﬁned
in this document. The ﬂow ﬁltering rules indicated by the Flow Speciﬁcations are mainly deﬁned
by BGP Flow Speciﬁcations.

Note that PCEP-installed Flow Speciﬁcations are intended to be installed only at the head end of
the LSP to which they direct traﬃc. It is acceptable (and potentially desirable) that other routers
in the network have Flow Speciﬁcations installed that match the same traﬃc but direct it onto
diﬀerent routes or to diﬀerent LSPs. Those other Flow Speciﬁcations may be installed using the
PCEP extensions deﬁned in this document, distributed using BGP per
, or conﬁgured
using manual operations. Since this document is about PCEP-installed Flow Speciﬁcations, those
other Flow Speciﬁcations at other routers are out of scope. In this context, however, it is worth
noting that changes to the wider routing system (such as the distribution and installation of BGP
Flow Speciﬁcations, or ﬂuctuations in the IGP link state database) might mean that traﬃc
matching the PCEP Flow Speciﬁcation never reaches the head end of the LSP at which the PCEP
Flow Speciﬁcation has been installed. This may or may not be desirable according to the
operator's traﬃc engineering and routing policies and is particularly applicable at LSPs that do
not have their head ends at the ingress edge of the network, but it is not an eﬀect that this
document seeks to address.

[RFC8955]

2.  Terminology

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

This document uses the following terms deﬁned in

[RFC5440]

: PCC, PCE, and PCEP Peer.

The following term from

[RFC8955]

 is used frequently throughout this document:

A Flow Speciﬁcation is an n-tuple consisting of several matching criteria that can be
applied to IP traﬃc. A given IP packet is said to match the deﬁned Flow Speciﬁcation if it
matches all the speciﬁed criteria.

 also states that "[a] given Flow Speciﬁcation may be associated with a set of attributes"

[RFC8955]
and that "...attributes can be used to encode a set of predetermined actions." However, in the
context of this document, no action is explicitly speciﬁed as associated with the Flow
Speciﬁcation since the action of forwarding all matching traﬃc onto the associated path is
implicit.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

How an implementation decides to ﬁlter traﬃc that matches a Flow Speciﬁcation does not form
part of this speciﬁcation, but a ﬂag is provided to indicate whether the sender of a PCEP message
that includes a Flow Speciﬁcation intends it to be installed as a Longest Preﬁx Match (LPM) route
or as a Flow Speciﬁcation policy.

This document uses the terms "stateful PCE" and "active PCE" as advocated in

[RFC7399]

.

3.  Procedures for PCE Use of Flow Speciﬁcations

3.1.  Context for PCE Use of Flow Speciﬁcations

In the PCE architecture, there are ﬁve steps in the setup and use of LSPs:

1.

Decide which LSPs to set up. The decision may be made by a user, by a PCC, or by the PCE.
There can be a number of triggers for this, including user intervention and dynamic response
to changes in traﬃc demands.

2.

Decide what properties to assign to an LSP. This can include bandwidth reservations,
priorities, and the Diﬀerentiated Services Code Point (DSCP) (i.e., MPLS Traﬃc Class ﬁeld). This
function is also determined by user conﬁguration or in response to predicted or observed
traﬃc demands.

3.

Decide what traﬃc to put on the LSP. This is eﬀectively determining which traﬃc ﬂows to
assign to which LSPs; practically, this is closely linked to the ﬁrst two decisions listed above.

4.

Cause the LSP to be set up and modiﬁed to have the right characteristics. This will usually
involve the PCE advising or instructing the PCC at the head end of the LSP, and the PCC will
then signal the LSP across the network.

5.

Tell the head end of the LSP what traﬃc to put on the LSP. This may happen after or at the
same time as the LSP is set up. This step is the subject of this document.

3.2.  Elements of the Procedure

There are three elements in the procedure:

1.

A PCE and a PCC must be able to indicate whether or not they support the use of Flow
Speciﬁcations.

2.

A PCE or PCC must be able to include Flow Speciﬁcations in PCEP messages with a clear
understanding of the applicability of those Flow Speciﬁcations in each case. This includes
whether the use of such information is mandatory, constrained, or optional and how
overlapping Flow Speciﬁcations will be resolved.

3.

Flow Speciﬁcation information/state must be synchronized between PCEP peers so that, on
recovery, the peers have the same understanding of which Flow Speciﬁcations apply just as is
required in the case of stateful PCE and LSP delegation (see

Section 5.6 of [RFC8231]

).

The following subsections describe these points.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

3.2.1.  Capability Advertisement

As with most PCEP capability advertisements, the ability to support Flow Speciﬁcations can be
indicated in the PCEP Open message or in IGP PCE capability advertisements.

3.2.1.1.  PCEP Open Message

During PCEP session establishment, a PCC or PCE that supports the procedures described in this
document announces this fact by including the PCE FlowSpec Capability TLV (described in
Section 4) in the OPEN object carried in the PCEP Open message.

The presence of the PCE FlowSpec Capability TLV in the OPEN object in a PCE's Open message
indicates that the PCE can distribute FlowSpecs to PCCs and can receive FlowSpecs in messages
from PCCs.

The presence of the PCE FlowSpec Capability TLV in the OPEN object in a PCC's Open message
indicates that the PCC supports the FlowSpec functionality described in this document.

If either one of a pair of PCEP peers does not include the PCE FlowSpec Capability TLV in the OPEN
 include a FLOWSPEC object in any PCEP
object in its Open message, then the other peer
message sent to the peer. If a FLOWSPEC object is received when support has not been indicated,
the receiver will respond with a PCErr message reporting the objects containing the FlowSpec as
described in
speciﬁcation and "Not supported object" if it supports this speciﬁcation but has not chosen to
support FLOWSPEC objects on this PCEP session.

: that is, it will use "Unknown Object" if it does not support this

[RFC5440]

MUST NOT

3.2.1.2.  IGP PCE Capabilities Advertisement

[RFC5088]

The ability to advertise support for PCEP and PCE features in IGP advertisements is provided for
OSPF in
. The mechanism uses the PCE Discovery TLV, which
has a PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV containing bit ﬂags, each of which indicates support for a diﬀerent
feature.

 and for IS-IS in

[RFC5089]

This document deﬁnes a new PCE-CAP-FLAGS sub-TLV bit, the FlowSpec Capable ﬂag (bit number
16). Setting the bit indicates that an advertising PCE supports the procedures deﬁned in this
document.

Note that while PCE FlowSpec capability may be advertised during discovery, PCEP speakers that
wish to use Flow Speciﬁcation in PCEP
session setup, as speciﬁed in Section 3.2.1.1. A PCC
negotiation at PCEP session setup even if it did not receive any IGP PCE capability advertisement,
and a PCEP peer that advertised support for FlowSpec in the IGP is not obliged to support these
procedures on any given PCEP session.

 negotiate PCE FlowSpec capability during PCEP

 initiate PCE FlowSpec capability

MUST

MAY

3.2.2.  Dissemination Procedures

This section describes the procedures to support Flow Speciﬁcations in PCEP messages.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

The primary purpose of distributing Flow Speciﬁcation information is to allow a PCE to indicate
to a PCC what traﬃc it should place on a path (such as an LSP or an SR path). This means that the
Flow Speciﬁcation may be included in:

•

PCInitiate messages so that an active PCE can indicate the traﬃc to place on a path at the
time that the PCE instantiates the path.

•

PCUpd messages so that an active PCE can indicate or change the traﬃc to place on a path
that has already been set up.

•

PCRpt messages so that a PCC can report the traﬃc that the PCC will place on the path.

•

PCReq messages so that a PCC can indicate what traﬃc it plans to place on a path when it
requests that the PCE perform a computation in case that information aids the PCE in its
work.

•

PCRep messages so that a PCE that has been asked to compute a path can suggest which
traﬃc could be placed on a path that a PCC may be about to set up.

•

PCErr messages so that issues related to paths and the traﬃc they carry can be reported to the
PCE by the PCC and problems with other PCEP messages that carry Flow Speciﬁcations can be
reported.

To carry Flow Speciﬁcations in PCEP messages, this document deﬁnes a new PCEP object called
the "PCEP FLOWSPEC object". The object is
MAY
OPTIONAL
appear more than once in each message.

 in the messages described above and

To describe a traﬃc ﬂow, the PCEP FLOWSPEC object carries a Flow Filter TLV.

The inclusion of multiple PCEP FLOWSPEC objects allows multiple traﬃc ﬂows to be placed on a
single path.

Once a PCE and PCC have established that they can both support the use of Flow Speciﬁcations in
PCEP messages, such information may be exchanged at any time for new or existing paths.

The application and prioritization of Flow Speciﬁcations are described in Section 8.7.

[RFC8231]

As per
policy. This holds true for the Flow Speciﬁcations as well.

, any attributes of the path received from a PCE are subject to the PCC's local

3.2.3.  Flow Speciﬁcation Synchronization

The Flow Speciﬁcations are carried along with the LSP state information as per
making the Flow Speciﬁcations part of the LSP database (LSP-DB). Thus, the synchronization of
the Flow Speciﬁcation information is done as part of LSP-DB synchronization. This may be
achieved using normal state synchronization procedures as described in
state synchronization procedures as deﬁned in

[RFC8231]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8232]

 or enhanced

,

.

The approach selected will be implementation and deployment speciﬁc and will depend on issues
such as how the databases are constructed and what level of synchronization support is needed.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

4.  PCE FlowSpec Capability TLV

The PCE-FLOWSPEC-CAPABILITY TLV is an optional TLV that can be carried in the OPEN object
[RFC5440]

 to exchange the PCE FlowSpec capabilities of the PCEP speakers.

The format of the PCE-FLOWSPEC-CAPABILITY TLV follows the format of all PCEP TLVs as deﬁned
in

 and is shown in Figure 1.

[RFC5440]

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|         Type=51               |          Length=2             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|           Value=0             |          Padding              |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 1: PCE-FLOWSPEC-CAPABILITY TLV Format

The type of the PCE-FLOWSPEC-CAPABILITY TLV is 51, and it has a ﬁxed length of 2 octets. The
Value ﬁeld
 be set to 0 and
to zero and ignored on receipt.

 be ignored on receipt. The two bytes of padding

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be set

The inclusion of this TLV in an OPEN object indicates that the sender can perform FlowSpec
handling as deﬁned in this document.

5.  PCEP FLOWSPEC Object

The PCEP FLOWSPEC object deﬁned in this document is compliant with the PCEP object format
deﬁned in
messages and
separate traﬃc ﬂow.

 in the PCReq, PCRep, PCErr, PCInitiate, PCRpt, and PCUpd
 be present zero, one, or more times. Each instance of the object speciﬁes a

[RFC5440]
MAY

OPTIONAL

. It is

The PCEP FLOWSPEC object
deﬁned in Section 6.

MAY

 carry a FlowSpec ﬁlter rule encoded in a Flow Filter TLV as

The FLOWSPEC Object-Class is 43 (to be assigned by IANA).

The FLOWSPEC Object-Type is 1.

The format of the body of the PCEP FLOWSPEC object is shown in Figure 2.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            FS-ID                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|         AFI                   |  Reserved     |   Flags   |L|R|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
//                             TLVs                            //
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: PCEP FLOWSPEC Object Body Format

FS-ID (32 bits):

A PCEP-speciﬁc identiﬁer for the FlowSpec information. A PCE or PCC creates an
FS-ID for each FlowSpec that it originates, and the value is unique within the scope of that PCE
or PCC and is constant for the lifetime of a PCEP session. All subsequent PCEP messages can
identify the FlowSpec using the FS-ID. The values 0 and 0xFFFFFFFF are reserved and
MUST
NOT
identiﬁers such as the FS-ID so as to minimize security risks.

 gives advice on assigning transient numeric

[NUMERIC-IDS-SEC]

 be used. Note that

AFI (16 bits):

for IPv6 and VPNv6 as per

Address Family Identiﬁer as used in BGP
[RFC8956]

).

[RFC4760]

 (AFI=1 for IPv4 or VPNv4, AFI=2

Reserved (8 bits):

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and ignored on receipt.

Flags (8 bits):

Two ﬂags are currently assigned:

R bit:

The Remove bit is set when a PCEP FLOWSPEC object is included in a PCEP message to

indicate removal of the Flow Speciﬁcation from the associated tunnel. If the bit is clear, the
Flow Speciﬁcation is being added or modiﬁed.

L bit:

The Longest Preﬁx Match (LPM) bit is set to indicate that the Flow Speciﬁcation is to be

installed as a route subject to LPM forwarding. If the bit is clear, the Flow Speciﬁcation
described by the Flow Filter TLV (see Section 6) is to be installed as a Flow Speciﬁcation. If
the bit is set, only Flow Speciﬁcations that describe IPv4 or IPv6 destinations are
meaningful in the Flow Filter TLV, and others are ignored. If the L is set and the receiver
does not support the use of Flow Speciﬁcations that are present in the Flow Filter TLV for
the installation of a route subject to LPM forwarding, then the PCEP peer
with a PCErr message with Error-Type 30 (FlowSpec Error) and Error-value 5 (Unsupported
LPM Route).

 respond

MUST

Unassigned bits

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and ignored on receipt.

If the PCEP speaker receives a message with the R bit set in the FLOWSPEC object and the Flow
Speciﬁcation identiﬁed with an FS-ID does not exist, it
(FlowSpec Error) and Error-value 4 (Unknown FlowSpec).

 generate a PCErr with Error-Type 30

MUST

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

If the PCEP speaker does not understand or support the AFI in the FLOWSPEC message, the PCEP
peer
 respond with a PCErr message with Error-Type 30 (FlowSpec Error) and Error-value 2
(Malformed FlowSpec).

MUST

The following TLVs can be used in the FLOWSPEC object:

Speaker Entity Identiﬁer TLV:

As speciﬁed in

[RFC8232]

, the SPEAKER-ENTITY-ID TLV encodes a

unique identiﬁer for the node that does not change during the lifetime of the PCEP speaker.
This is used to uniquely identify the FlowSpec originator and thus is used in conjunction with
the FS-ID to uniquely identify the FlowSpec information. This TLV
is missing, the PCEP peer
Error) and Error-value 2 (Malformed FlowSpec). If more than one instance of this TLV is
present, the ﬁrst

 respond with a PCErr message with Error-Type 30 (FlowSpec

 be processed, and subsequent instances

 be ignored.

 be included. If the TLV

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

Flow Filter TLV (variable):

R bit is set.

One TLV

MAY

 be included. The Flow Filter TLV is

OPTIONAL

 when the

The Flow Filter TLV
clear, the PCEP peer
Error-value 2 (Malformed FlowSpec).

MUST

MUST

 be present when the R bit is clear. If the TLV is missing when the R bit is
 respond with a PCErr message with Error-Type 30 (FlowSpec Error) and

Filtering based on the L2 ﬁelds is out of scope of this document.

6.  Flow Filter TLV

One new PCEP TLV is deﬁned to convey Flow Speciﬁcation ﬁltering rules that specify what traﬃc
. The Type
is carried on a path. The TLV follows the format of all PCEP TLVs as deﬁned in
ﬁeld values come from the code point space for PCEP TLVs and has the value 52 for Flow Filter
TLV.

[RFC5440]

The Value ﬁeld of the TLV contains one or more sub-TLVs (the Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs) as deﬁned
in Section 7, and they represent the complete deﬁnition of a Flow Speciﬁcation for traﬃc to be
placed on the tunnel. This tunnel is indicated by the PCEP message in which the PCEP FLOWSPEC
object is carried. The set of Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs in a single instance of a Flow Filter TLV is
combined to indicate the speciﬁc Flow Speciﬁcation. Note that the PCEP FLOWSPEC object can
include just one Flow Filter TLV.

Further Flow Speciﬁcations can be included in a PCEP message by including additional
FLOWSPEC objects.

In the future, there may be a desire to add support for L2 Flow Speciﬁcations (such as described in
[BGP-L2VPN]

).

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

7.  Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs

The Flow Filter TLV carries one or more Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs. The Flow Speciﬁcation TLV
follows the format of all PCEP TLVs as deﬁned in
. However, the Type values are selected
from a separate IANA registry (see Section 10.3) rather than from the common PCEP TLV registry.

[RFC5440]

Type values are chosen so that there can be commonality with Flow Speciﬁcations deﬁned for
use with BGP
. This is possible because the BGP Flow Spec encoding uses a
single octet to encode the type, whereas PCEP uses 2 octets. Thus, the space of values for the Type
ﬁeld is partitioned as shown in Table 1.

[RFC8955] [RFC8956]

Range

Description

0-255

Per BGP Flow Spec registry deﬁned by
Not to be allocated in this registry.

[RFC8955]

 and

[RFC8956]

.

256-65535 New PCEP Flow Speciﬁcations allocated according to the registry deﬁned in this

document.

Table 1: Flow Speciﬁcation TLV Type Ranges

 is the reference for the "Flow Spec Component Types" registry and deﬁnes the

[RFC8955]
allocations it contains.
Types" registry, as well as its initial allocations. If the AFI (in the FLOWSPEC object) is set to IPv4,
the range 0..255 is as per "Flow Spec Component Types"
range 0..255 is as per "Flow Spec IPv6 Component Types"

 requested the creation of the "Flow Spec IPv6 Component

; if the AFI is set to IPv6, the

[RFC8955]

[RFC8956]

[RFC8956]

.

The content of the Value ﬁeld in each TLV is speciﬁc to the type/AFI and describes the parameters
of the Flow Speciﬁcation. The deﬁnition of the format of many of these Value ﬁelds is inherited
from BGP speciﬁcations. Speciﬁcally, the inheritance is from
also be inherited from future BGP speciﬁcations.

, but it may

[RFC8956]

[RFC8955]

 and

[RFC8955]

. As described in

When multiple Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs are present in a single Flow Filter TLV, they are combined
to produce a more detailed speciﬁcation of a ﬂow. For examples and rules about how this is
achieved, see
, where it says "A given component type
[RFC8955]
(exactly once) be present in the Flow Speciﬁcation", a Flow Filter TLV
than one Flow Speciﬁcation TLV of the same type: an implementation that receives a PCEP
message with a Flow Filter TLV that contains more than one Flow Speciﬁcation TLV of the same
 respond with a PCErr message with Error-Type 30 (FlowSpec Error) and Error-value 2
type
 install the Flow Speciﬁcation.
(Malformed FlowSpec) and

MAY
 contain more

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST

An implementation that receives a PCEP message carrying a Flow Speciﬁcation TLV with a type
value that it does not recognize or support
 respond with a PCErr message with Error-Type
30 (FlowSpec Error) and Error-value 1 (Unsupported FlowSpec) and
Speciﬁcation.

 install the Flow

MUST NOT

MUST

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

When used in other protocols (such as BGP), these Flow Speciﬁcations are also associated with
actions to indicate how traﬃc matching the Flow Speciﬁcation should be treated. In PCEP,
however, the only action is to associate the traﬃc with a tunnel and to forward matching traﬃc
onto that path, so no encoding of an action is needed.

Section 8.7 describes how overlapping Flow Speciﬁcations are prioritized and handled.

All Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs with Types in the range 0 to 255 have values deﬁned for use in BGP
) and are set using the BGP encoding but without the
(for example, in
type octet (the relevant information is in the Type ﬁeld of the TLV). The Value ﬁeld is padded with
trailing zeros to achieve 4-byte alignment.

[RFC8956]

[RFC8955]

 and

This document deﬁnes the following new types:

Type Description

Value Deﬁned In

256

257

258

Route Distinguisher

RFC 9168

IPv4 Multicast Flow RFC 9168

IPv6 Multicast Flow RFC 9168

Table 2: Flow Speciﬁcation TLV Types Deﬁned in this
Document

To allow identiﬁcation of a VPN in PCEP via a Route Distinguisher (RD)
ROUTE-DISTINGUISHER TLV, is deﬁned in this document. A Flow Speciﬁcation TLV with Type 256
(ROUTE-DISTINGUISHER TLV) carries an RD value, which is used to identify that other ﬂow ﬁlter
information (for example, an IPv4 destination preﬁx) is associated with a speciﬁc VPN identiﬁed
by the RD. See Section 8.6 for further discussion of VPN identiﬁcation.

, a new TLV,

[RFC4364]

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|           Type=256            |           Length=8            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     Route Distinguisher                       |
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: The Format of the ROUTE-DISTINGUISHER TLV

The format of the RD is as per

[RFC4364]

.

Although it may be possible to describe a multicast Flow Speciﬁcation from the combination of
other Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs with speciﬁc values, it is more convenient to use a dedicated Flow
Speciﬁcation TLV. Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs with Type values 257 and 258 are used to identify a
multicast ﬂow for IPv4 and IPv6, respectively. The Value ﬁeld is encoded as shown in Figure 4.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|        Reserved           |S|G|  Src Mask Len | Grp Mask Len  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~                        Source Address                         ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~                   Group multicast Address                     ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: Multicast Flow Speciﬁcation TLV Encoding

The address ﬁelds and address mask lengths of the two Multicast Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs contain
source and group preﬁxes for matching against packet ﬂows. Note that the two address ﬁelds are
32 bits for an IPv4 Multicast Flow and 128 bits for an IPv6 Multicast Flow.

The Reserved ﬁeld

MUST

 be set to zero and ignored on receipt.

MUST

Two bit ﬂags (S and G) are deﬁned to describe the multicast wildcarding in use. If the S bit is set,
then source wildcarding is in use, and the values in the Source Mask Length and Source Address
ﬁelds
 be
Group Mask Length and Group multicast Address ﬁelds
set unless the S bit is also set: if a Multicast Flow Speciﬁcation TLV is received with S bit = 0 and G
bit = 1, the receiver
value 2 (Malformed FlowSpec).

 be ignored. If the G bit is set, then group wildcarding is in use, and the values in the
MUST NOT

 respond with a PCErr with Error-Type 30 (FlowSpec Error) and Error-

 be ignored. The G bit

MUST

MUST

The three multicast mappings may be achieved as follows:

(S, G) - S bit = 0, G bit = 0, the Source Address and Group multicast Address preﬁxes are both
used to deﬁne the multicast ﬂow.

(*, G) - S bit = 1, G bit = 0, the Group multicast Address preﬁx is used to deﬁne the multicast
ﬂow, but the Source Address preﬁx is ignored.

(*, *) - S bit = 1, G bit = 1, the Source Address and Group multicast Address preﬁxes are both
ignored.

8.  Detailed Procedures

This section outlines some speciﬁc detailed procedures for using the protocol extensions deﬁned
in this document.

8.1.  Default Behavior and Backward Compatibility

The default behavior is that no Flow Speciﬁcation is applied to a tunnel. That is, the default is that
the FLOWSPEC object is not used, as is the case in all systems before the implementation of this
speciﬁcation.

In this case, it is a local matter (such as through conﬁguration) how tunnel head ends are
instructed in terms of what traﬃc to place on a tunnel.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

[RFC5440]

 describes how receivers respond when they see unknown PCEP objects.

8.2.  Composite Flow Speciﬁcations

Flow Speciﬁcations may be represented by a single Flow Speciﬁcation TLV or may require a more
complex description using multiple Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs. For example, a ﬂow indicated by a
source-destination pair of IPv6 addresses would be described by the combination of Destination
IPv6 Preﬁx and Source IPv6 Preﬁx Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs.

8.3.  Modifying Flow Speciﬁcations

A PCE may want to modify a Flow Speciﬁcation associated with a tunnel, or a PCC may want to
report a change to the Flow Speciﬁcation it is using with a tunnel.

It is important to identify the speciﬁc Flow Speciﬁcation so it is clear that this is a modiﬁcation of
an existing ﬂow and not the addition of a new ﬂow as described in Section 8.4. The FS-ID ﬁeld of
the PCEP FLOWSPEC object is used to identify a speciﬁc Flow Speciﬁcation in the context of the
content of the Speaker Entity Identiﬁer TLV.

When modifying a Flow Speciﬁcation, all Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs for the intended speciﬁcation
 be retained from the
of the ﬂow
MUST
 be used.
previous description of the ﬂow, and the same Speaker Entity Identiﬁer TLV
MUST

 be included in the PCEP FLOWSPEC object. The FS-ID

MUST

8.4.  Multiple Flow Speciﬁcations

It is possible that traﬃc from multiple ﬂows will be placed on a single tunnel. In some cases, it is
possible to deﬁne these within a single PCEP FLOWSPEC object by widening the scope of a Flow
Speciﬁcation TLV: for example, traﬃc to two destination IPv4 preﬁxes might be captured by a
single Flow Speciﬁcation TLV with type "Destination" with a suitably adjusted preﬁx. However,
this is unlikely to be possible in most scenarios, and it must be recalled that it is not permitted to
include two Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs of the same type within one Flow Filter TLV.

The normal procedure, therefore, is to carry each Flow Speciﬁcation in its own PCEP FLOWSPEC
object. Multiple objects may be present on a single PCEP message, or multiple PCEP messages may
be used.

8.5.  Adding and Removing Flow Speciﬁcations

The Remove bit in the PCEP FLOWSPEC object is left clear when a Flow Speciﬁcation is being
added or modiﬁed.

To remove a Flow Speciﬁcation, a PCEP FLOWSPEC object is included with the FS-ID matching the
one being removed, and the R bit is set to indicate removal. In this case, it is not necessary to
include any Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

 ignore them. If
If the R bit is set and Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs are present, an implementation
the implementation checks the Flow Speciﬁcation TLVs against those recorded for the FS-ID and
Speaker Entity Identiﬁer of the Flow Speciﬁcation being removed and ﬁnds a mismatch, the Flow
Speciﬁcation matching the FS-ID
 record
a local exception or log.

 still be removed, and the implementation

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

8.6.  VPN Identiﬁers

VPN instances are identiﬁed in BGP using RDs
considered to have any meaning outside of the network, and they are not encoded in data
packets belonging to the VPNs. However, RDs provide a useful way of identifying VPN instances
and are often manually or automatically assigned to VPNs as they are provisioned.

. These values are not normally

[RFC4364]

Thus, the RD provides a useful way to indicate that traﬃc for a particular VPN should be placed on
a given tunnel. The tunnel head end will need to interpret this Flow Speciﬁcation not as a ﬁlter on
the ﬁelds of data packets but rather using the other mechanisms that it already uses to identify
VPN traﬃc. These mechanisms could be based on the incoming port (for port-based VPNs) or may
leverage knowledge of the VPN Routing and Forwarding (VRF) that is in use for the traﬃc.

8.7.  Priorities and Overlapping Flow Speciﬁcations

Flow Speciﬁcations can overlap. For example, two diﬀerent Flow Speciﬁcations may be identical
except for the length of the preﬁx in the destination address. In these cases, the PCC must
determine how to prioritize the Flow Speciﬁcations so as to know which path to assign packets
that match both Flow Speciﬁcations. That is, the PCC must assign a precedence to the Flow
Speciﬁcations so that it checks each incoming packet for a match in a predictable order.

The processing of BGP Flow Speciﬁcations is described in
explains the order of traﬃc ﬁltering rules to be executed by an implementation of that
speciﬁcation.

[RFC8955]

. Section 5.1 of that document

PCCs

MUST

 apply the same ordering rules as deﬁned in

[RFC8955]

.

Furthermore, it is possible that Flow Speciﬁcations will be distributed by BGP as well as by PCEP
as described in this document. In such cases, implementations supporting both approaches
apply the prioritization and ordering rules as set out in
distributed the Flow Speciﬁcations. However, implementations
control to allow one protocol to take precedence over the other; this may be particularly useful if
the Flow Speciﬁcations make identical matches on traﬃc but have diﬀerent actions. It is
RECOMMENDED
Flow Speciﬁcations distributed by diﬀerent protocols overlap, especially when one acts to replace
another.

 that a message be logged for the operator to understand the behavior when two

 regardless of which protocol
 provide a conﬁguration

[RFC8955]

MUST

MAY

Section 12.1 of this document covers manageability considerations relevant to the prioritized
ordering of Flow Speciﬁcations.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

An implementation that receives a PCEP message carrying a Flow Speciﬁcation that it cannot
resolve against other Flow Speciﬁcations already installed (for example, because the new Flow
Speciﬁcation has irresolvable conﬂicts with other Flow Speciﬁcations that are already installed)
 respond with a PCErr message with Error-Type 30 (FlowSpec Error) and Error-value 3
MUST
(Unresolvable Conﬂict) and

 install the Flow Speciﬁcation.

MUST NOT

9.  PCEP Messages

This section describes the format of messages that contain FLOWSPEC objects. The only
diﬀerence from previous message formats is the inclusion of that object.

The ﬁgures in this section use the notation deﬁned in

[RFC5511]

.

The FLOWSPEC object is

OPTIONAL

 and

MAY

 be carried in the PCEP messages.

The PCInitiate message is deﬁned in

[RFC8281]

 and updated as below:

<PCInitiate Message> ::= <Common Header>
                         <PCE-initiated-lsp-list>

Where:
   <PCE-initiated-lsp-list> ::= <PCE-initiated-lsp-request>
                                [<PCE-initiated-lsp-list>]

   <PCE-initiated-lsp-request> ::=
                                 ( <PCE-initiated-lsp-instantiation>|
                                   <PCE-initiated-lsp-deletion> )

   <PCE-initiated-lsp-instantiation> ::= <SRP>
                                         <LSP>
                                         [<END-POINTS>]
                                         <ERO>
                                         [<attribute-list>]
                                         [<flowspec-list>]

   Where:
      <flowspec-list> ::= <FLOWSPEC> [<flowspec-list>]

The PCUpd message is deﬁned in

[RFC8231]

 and updated as below:

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

<PCUpd Message> ::= <Common Header>
                    <update-request-list>

Where:
   <update-request-list> ::= <update-request>
                             [<update-request-list>]

   <update-request> ::= <SRP>
                        <LSP>
                        <path>
                        [<flowspec-list>]

   Where:
      <path>::= <intended-path><intended-attribute-list>

      <flowspec-list> ::= <FLOWSPEC> [<flowspec-list>]

The PCRpt message is deﬁned in

[RFC8231]

 and updated as below:

<PCRpt Message> ::= <Common Header>
                    <state-report-list>

Where:
   <state-report-list> ::= <state-report>[<state-report-list>]

   <state-report> ::= [<SRP>]
                      <LSP>
                      <path>
                      [<flowspec-list>]

    Where:
      <path>::= <intended-path>
                [<actual-attribute-list><actual-path>]
                <intended-attribute-list>

      <flowspec-list> ::= <FLOWSPEC> [<flowspec-list>]

The PCReq message is deﬁned in
for a Flow Speciﬁcation:

[RFC5440]

 and updated in

[RFC8231]

; it is further updated below

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

<PCReq Message>::= <Common Header>
                   [<svec-list>]
                   <request-list>

Where:
   <svec-list>::= <SVEC>[<svec-list>]

   <request-list>::= <request>[<request-list>]

   <request>::= <RP>
                <END-POINTS>
                [<LSP>]
                [<LSPA>]
                [<BANDWIDTH>]
                [<metric-list>]
                [<RRO>[<BANDWIDTH>]]
                [<IRO>]
                [<LOAD-BALANCING>]
                [<flowspec-list>]

   Where:
      <flowspec-list> ::= <FLOWSPEC> [<flowspec-list>]

The PCRep message is deﬁned in
for a Flow Speciﬁcation:

[RFC5440]

 and updated in

[RFC8231]

; it is further updated below

<PCRep Message> ::= <Common Header>
                    <response-list>

Where:
   <response-list>::=<response>[<response-list>]

   <response>::=<RP>
               [<LSP>]
               [<NO-PATH>]
               [<attribute-list>]
               [<path-list>]
               [<flowspec-list>]

   Where:
      <flowspec-list> ::= <FLOWSPEC> [<flowspec-list>]

10.  IANA Considerations

This document requests that IANA allocate code points for the protocol elements deﬁned in this
document.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

10.1.  PCEP Objects

IANA maintains a subregistry called "PCEP Objects" within the "Path Computation Element
Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry. Each PCEP object has an Object-Class and an Object-Type, and
IANA has allocated new code points in this subregistry as follows:

Object-Class Value Name

Object-Type

Reference

43

FLOWSPEC

0: Reserved

RFC 9168

1: Flow Speciﬁcation

RFC 9168

Table 3: PCEP Objects Subregistry Additions

10.1.1.  PCEP FLOWSPEC Object Flag Field

This document requests that a new subregistry, "FLOWSPEC Object Flag Field", be created within
the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry to manage the Flag ﬁeld of the
FLOWSPEC object. New values are to be assigned by Standards Action
be tracked with the following qualities:

. Each bit should

[RFC8126]

•

Bit number (counting from bit 0 as the most signiﬁcant bit)

•

Capability description

•

Deﬁning RFC

The initial population of this registry is as follows:

Bit

Description

Reference

0-5

Unassigned

6

7

LPM (L bit)

RFC 9168

Remove (R bit)

RFC 9168

Table 4: Initial Contents of the FLOWSPEC
Object Flag Field Registry

10.2.  PCEP TLV Type Indicators

IANA maintains a subregistry called "PCEP TLV Type Indicators" within the "Path Computation
Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry. IANA has made the following allocations in this
subregistry:

Value Description

Reference

51

PCE-FLOWSPEC-CAPABILITY TLV

RFC 9168

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

Value Description

52

FLOW FILTER TLV

Reference

RFC 9168

Table 5: PCEP TLV Type Indicators Subregistry Additions

10.3.  Flow Speciﬁcation TLV Type Indicators

IANA has created a new subregistry called "PCEP Flow Speciﬁcation TLV Type Indicators" within
the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry.

Allocations from this registry are to be made according to the following assignment policies
[RFC8126]

:

Range

Registration Procedures

0-255

Reserved - must not be allocated.
Usage mirrors the BGP Flow Spec registry

[RFC8955] [RFC8956]

.

256-64506

Speciﬁcation Required

64507-65531

First Come First Served

65532-65535

Experimental Use

Table 6: Registration Procedures for the PCEP Flow Speciﬁcation TLV Type
Indicators Subregistry

IANA has populated this registry with values deﬁned in this document as follows, taking the new
values from the range 256 to 64506:

Value

Meaning

256

257

258

Route Distinguisher

IPv4 Multicast

IPv6 Multicast

Table 7: Initial Contents of the PCEP Flow
Speciﬁcation TLV Type Indicators
Subregistry

10.4.  PCEP Error Codes

IANA maintains a subregistry called "PCEP-ERROR Object Error Types and Values" within the
"Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry. Entries in this subregistry are
described by Error-Type and Error-value. IANA has added the following assignment to this
subregistry:

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

Error-Type Meaning

Error-value

Reference

30

FlowSpec error

0: Unassigned

RFC 9168

1: Unsupported FlowSpec

RFC 9168

2: Malformed FlowSpec

RFC 9168

3: Unresolvable Conﬂict

RFC 9168

4: Unknown FlowSpec

RFC 9168

5: Unsupported LPM Route

RFC 9168

6-255: Unassigned

RFC 9168

Table 8: PCEP-ERROR Object Error Types and Values Subregistry Additions

10.5.  PCE Capability Flag

IANA has registered a new capability bit in the OSPF Parameters "Path Computation Element
(PCE) Capability Flags" registry as follows:

Bit

Capability Description

Reference

16

FlowSpec

RFC 9168

Table 9: Path Computation Element (PCE)
Capability Flags Registry Additions

11.  Security Considerations

We may assume that a system that utilizes a remote PCE is subject to a number of vulnerabilities
that could allow spurious LSPs or SR paths to be established or that could result in existing paths
being modiﬁed or torn down. Such systems, therefore, apply security considerations as described
in

[RFC5440] Section 2.5 of [RFC6952] [RFC8253]

[RFC8955]

, and

,

,

.

The description of Flow Speciﬁcations associated with paths set up or controlled by a PCE adds a
further detail that could be attacked without tearing down LSPs or SR paths but causes traﬃc to
be misrouted within the network. Therefore, the use of the security mechanisms for PCEP
referenced above is important.

Visibility into the information carried in PCEP does not have direct privacy concerns for end
users' data; however, knowledge of how data is routed in a network may make that data more
vulnerable. Of course, the ability to interfere with the way data is routed also makes the data
more vulnerable. Furthermore, knowledge of the connected endpoints (such as multicast
receivers or VPN sites) is usually considered private customer information. Therefore,
 apply the
implementations or deployments concerned with protecting privacy

MUST

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

mechanisms described in the documents referenced above, in particular, to secure the PCEP
session using IPsec per Sections 10.4 to 10.6 of
security as originally suggested in
guarantees and

 does not provide suﬃcient security or privacy

[RFC5440]
 be relied upon.

SHOULD NOT

 or TLS per

[RFC8253]

[RFC5440]

. Note that TCP-MD5

Experience with Flow Speciﬁcations in BGP systems indicates that they can become complex and
that the overlap of Flow Speciﬁcations installed in diﬀerent orders can lead to unexpected results.
Although this is not directly a security issue per se, the confusion and unexpected forwarding
behavior may be engineered or exploited by an attacker. Furthermore, this complexity might give
rise to a situation where the forwarding behaviors might create gaps in the monitoring and
inspection of particular traﬃc or provide a path that avoids expected mitigations. Therefore,
implementers and operators
described in Section 12 and familiarize themselves with the careful explanations in

 pay careful attention to the manageability considerations

[RFC8955]

SHOULD

.

12.  Manageability Considerations

The feature introduced by this document enables operational manageability of networks
operated in conjunction with a PCE and using PCEP. In the case of a stateful active PCE or with
PCE-initiated services, in the absence of this feature, additional manual conﬁguration is needed
to tell the head ends what traﬃc to place on the network services (LSPs, SR paths, etc.).

This section follows the advice and guidance of

[RFC6123]

.

12.1.  Management of Multiple Flow Speciﬁcations

Experience with Flow Speciﬁcation in BGP suggests that there can be a lot of complexity when
two or more Flow Speciﬁcations overlap. This can arise, for example, with addresses indicated
using preﬁxes and could cause confusion about what traﬃc should be placed on which path.
Unlike the behavior in a distributed routing system, it is not important to the routing stability and
consistency of the network that each head-end implementation applies the same rules to
disambiguate overlapping Flow Speciﬁcations, but it is important that:

•

a network operator can easily ﬁnd out what traﬃc is being placed on which path and why.
This will facilitate analysis of the network and diagnosis of faults.

•

a PCE be able to correctly predict the eﬀect of instructions it gives to a PCC. This will ensure
that traﬃc is correctly placed on the network without causing congestion or other network
ineﬃciencies and that traﬃc is correctly delivered.

To that end, a PCC
and these
overlap, the one that will be serviced with higher precedence is presented to the operator ﬁrst.

 be presented in order of precedence such that when two Flow Speciﬁcations

 enable an operator to view the Flow Speciﬁcations that it has installed,

MUST

MUST

A discussion of precedence ordering for Flow Speciﬁcations is found in Section 8.7.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

12.2.  Control of Function through Conﬁguration and Policy

Support for the function described in this document implies that a functional element that is
capable of requesting that a PCE compute and control a path is also able to conﬁgure the
speciﬁcation of what traﬃc should be placed on that path. Where there is a human involved in
this action, conﬁguration of the Flow Speciﬁcation must be available through an interface (such
as a graphical user interface or a Command Line Interface). Where a distinct software
component (i.e., one not co-implemented with the PCE) is used, a protocol mechanism will be
required that could be PCEP itself or a data model, such as extensions to the YANG model for
requesting path computation

[TEAS-YANG-PATH]

.

MAY

 be constructed with a conﬁgurable switch to indicate whether they support
Implementations
the functions deﬁned in this document. Otherwise, such implementations
 indicate that they
support the function as described in Section 4. If an implementation allows conﬁgurable support
 be conﬁgurable per peer or once for the whole implementation.
of this function, that support

MUST

MAY

As mentioned in Section 12.1, a PCE implementation
variations in the precedence ordering of Flow Speciﬁcations per PCC.

SHOULD

 provide a mechanism to conﬁgure

12.3.  Information and Data Models

The YANG model in
messages. To make that YANG model useful for the extensions described in this document, it
would need to be augmented to cover the new protocol elements.

 can be used to model and monitor PCEP states and

[PCE-PCEP-YANG]

Similarly, as noted in Section 12.2, the YANG model deﬁned in
extended to allow the speciﬁcation of Flow Speciﬁcations.

[TEAS-YANG-PATH]

 could be

Finally, as mentioned in Section 12.1, a PCC implementation
 provide a mechanism to
allow an operator to read the Flow Speciﬁcations from a PCC and to understand in what order
they will be executed. This could be achieved using a new YANG model.

SHOULD

12.4.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

The extensions deﬁned in this document do not require any additional liveness detection and
monitoring support. See

 for more information.

[RFC5886]

[RFC5440]

 and

12.5.  Verifying Correct Operation

The chief element of operation that needs to be veriﬁed (in addition to the operation of the
protocol elements as described in
operation of the Flow Speciﬁcations at a PCC.

) is the installation, precedence, and correct

[RFC5440]

In addition to the YANG model, for reading Flow Speciﬁcations described in Section 12.3, tools
may be needed to inject Operations and Management (OAM) traﬃc at the PCC that matches
speciﬁc criteria so that it can be monitored while traveling along the desired path. Such tools are
outside the scope of this document.

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

12.6.  Requirements for Other Protocols and Functional Components

This document places no requirements on other protocols or components.

12.7.  Impact on Network Operation

The use of the features described in this document clearly have an important impact on network
traﬃc since they cause traﬃc to be routed on speciﬁc paths in the network. However, in practice,
these changes make no direct changes to the network operation because traﬃc is already placed
on those paths using some pre-existing conﬁguration mechanism. Thus, the signiﬁcant change is
the reduction in mechanisms that have to be applied rather than a change to how the traﬃc is
passed through the network.

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4364]

[RFC4760]

[RFC5440]

[RFC5511]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8231]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

 and

Rosen, E.
,
4364 DOI 10.17487/RFC4364
.
rfc4364>

,

Y. Rekhter "BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" RFC

,

, February 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
.
editor.org/info/rfc4760>

, and

,

,

,

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Vasseur, JP., Ed.
,
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)
,

,

, March 2009,

,

Farrel, A. "Routing Backus-Naur Form (RBNF): A Syntax Used to Form Encoding
Rules in Various Routing Protocol Speciﬁcations" RFC 5511 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5511

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5511>

, April 2009,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>
10.17487/RFC8231

R. Varga "Path Computation Element
,

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

,

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

[RFC8232]

[RFC8253]

[RFC8281]

[RFC8955]

[RFC8956]

,

,

,
D. Dhody "Optimizations
Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J. Varga, R. Zhang, X.
of Label Switched Path State Synchronization Procedures for a Stateful PCE" RFC
,
8232 DOI 10.17487/RFC8232
.
rfc8232>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

,

, and
Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Wu, Q.
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
,
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to

, October 2017,

<https://

,

,

,

,

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Sivabalan, S.
R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

, and

,

,

,

<https://

,

,
Loibl, C. Hares, S. Raszuk, R. McPherson, D.
Flow Speciﬁcation Rules" RFC 8955 DOI 10.17487/RFC8955
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8955>

, and

,

,

,

M. Bacher "Dissemination of

,

, December 2020,

,

, and
Loibl, C., Ed. Raszuk, R., Ed.
,
Speciﬁcation Rules for IPv6" RFC 8956 DOI 10.17487/RFC8956
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8956>

S. Hares, Ed. "Dissemination of Flow

,

,

, December 2020,

13.2.  Informative References

[BGP-L2VPN]

,

,

Hao, W. Eastlake, D. E. Litkowski, S.
Flow Speciﬁcation Rules" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-idr-
, 24 October 2021,
ﬂowspec-l2vpn-18
.
ietf-idr-ﬂowspec-l2vpn-18>

S. Zhuang "BGP Dissemination of L2

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-

, and

,

,

,

[NUMERIC-IDS-SEC]

Gont, F.

 and

I. Arce "Security Considerations for Transient Numeric

,

,
Identiﬁers Employed in Network Protocols" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-gont-numeric-ids-sec-considerations-06
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-gont-numeric-ids-sec-considerations-06>

, 5 December 2020,

<https://

,

[PCE-PCEP-YANG]

Dhody, D. Hardwick, J. Beeram, V. P.

,

,

, and

J. Tantsura "A YANG Data Model

,

for Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-17
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-17>

, 23 October 2021,

,

,

<https://

[RFC4655]

[RFC5088]

,

, and
Farrel, A. Vasseur, J.-P.
,
Architecture" RFC 4655 DOI 10.17487/RFC4655
.
editor.org/info/rfc4655>

J. Ash "A Path Computation Element (PCE)-Based
, August 2006,
<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

Le Roux, JL., Ed. Vasseur, JP., Ed. Ikejiri, Y.
Extensions for Path Computation Element (PCE) Discovery" RFC 5088 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5088>
10.17487/RFC5088

R. Zhang "OSPF Protocol
,

, January 2008,

, and

,

,

,

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

[RFC5089]

[RFC5886]

[RFC6123]

[RFC6952]

[RFC7399]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8283]

[RFC8664]

,

Le Roux, JL., Ed. Vasseur, JP., Ed. Ikejiri, Y.
Extensions for Path Computation Element (PCE) Discovery" RFC 5089 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5089>
10.17487/RFC5089

R. Zhang "IS-IS Protocol
,

, January 2008,

, and

,

,

,

,

Vasseur, JP., Ed. Le Roux, JL.
Computation Element (PCE)-Based Architecture" RFC 5886 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5886

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5886>

Y. Ikejiri "A Set of Monitoring Tools for Path

, June 2010,

, and

,

,

,

,

Farrel, A. "Inclusion of Manageability Sections in Path Computation Element
, February 2011,
,
(PCE) Working Group Drafts" RFC 6123 DOI 10.17487/RFC6123
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6123>

,

,

,
L. Zheng "Analysis of BGP, LDP, PCEP, and MSDP
Jethanandani, M. Patel, K.
Issues According to the Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (KARP)
,
Design Guide" RFC 6952 DOI 10.17487/RFC6952
.
editor.org/info/rfc6952>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2013,

, and

,

Farrel, A.
,
Architecture" RFC 7399 DOI 10.17487/RFC7399
.
editor.org/info/rfc7399>

 and
D. King "Unanswered Questions in the Path Computation Element
,

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2014,

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,

,

C. Zhou "An Architecture for Use of PCE and
Farrel, A., Ed. Zhao, Q., Ed. Li, Z.
the PCE Communication Protocol (PCEP) in a Network with Central Control" RFC
,
8283 DOI 10.17487/RFC8283
.
rfc8283>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2017,

, and

,

,

,

Sivabalan, S. Filsﬁls, C. Tantsura, J. Henderickx, W.
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Segment
Routing" RFC 8664 DOI 10.17487/RFC8664
.
editor.org/info/rfc8664>

J. Hardwick "Path

<https://www.rfc-

, December 2019,

, and

,

,

,

,

[TEAS-YANG-PATH]

Busi, I. Belotti, S. Lopez, V. Sharma, A.

,

,

,

Y. Shi "YANG Data Model for

,

requesting Path Computation" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-teas-
yang-path-computation-16
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/
.
html/draft-ietf-teas-yang-path-computation-16>

, 6 September 2021,

,

, and
,

Acknowledgements

,

,

Julian Lucek Sudhir Cheruathur Olivier Dugeon Jayant Agarwal Jeﬀrey Zhang Acee

Thanks to
,
,
Lindem Vishnu Pavan Beeram Julien Meuric Deborah Brungard Éric Vyncke Erik Kline
Benjamin Kaduk Martin Duke Roman Danyliw
comments.

 for useful discussions and

Alvaro Retana

, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

Contributors

Shankara
Huawei Technologies
Divyashree Techno Park, Whiteﬁeld
Bangalore 560066
Karnataka
India
Email:

 shankara@huawei.com

Qiandeng Liang
Huawei Technologies
Yuhuatai District
101 Software Avenue,
Nanjing 210012
,
China
Email:

 liangqiandeng@huawei.com

Cyril Margaria
Juniper Networks
200 Somerset Corporate Boulevard, Suite 4001
Bridgewater, NJ 08807
United States of America
Email:

 cmargaria@juniper.net

Colby Barth
Juniper Networks
200 Somerset Corporate Boulevard, Suite 4001
Bridgewater, NJ 08807
United States of America
Email:

 cbarth@juniper.net

Xia Chen
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Bld., No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing 100095
,
China
Email:

 jescia.chenxia@huawei.com

Shunwan Zhuang
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Bld., No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing 100095
,
China
Email:

 zhuangshunwan@huawei.com

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9168

PCEP Flow Spec

January 2022

Cheng Li
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Campus, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing 100095
,
China
Email:

 c.l@huawei.com

Authors' Addresses

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei Technologies
Divyashree Techno Park, Whiteﬁeld
Bangalore 560066
Karnataka
India
Email:

 dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

Adrian Farrel
Old Dog Consulting
Email:

 adrian@olddog.co.uk

Zhenbin Li
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Bldg., No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

 lizhenbin@huawei.com

Dhody, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

