Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9164
Standards Track
December 2021
2070-1721
M. Richardson
Sandelman Software Works

C. Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI

RFC 9164
Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Tags
for IPv4 and IPv6 Addresses and Preﬁxes

Abstract

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes two Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) tags for use with IPv6
and IPv4 addresses and preﬁxes.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9164

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9164

CBOR Tags for IP

December 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Protocol

3.1.  Three Forms

3.1.1.  Addresses

3.1.2.  Preﬁxes

3.1.3.  Interface Deﬁnition

3.2.  IPv6

3.3.  IPv4

4.  Tag Validity

4.1.  Deterministic Encoding

4.2.  Encoder Considerations for Preﬁxes

4.3.  Decoder Considerations for Preﬁxes

4.3.1.  Example Implementation

5.  CDDL

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  Tag 54 - IPv6

7.2.  Tag 52 - IPv4

7.3.  Tags 260 and 261

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9164

CBOR Tags for IP

December 2021

1.  Introduction

 deﬁnes a number of CBOR tags for common items. Tags 260 and 261 were later deﬁned

[RFC8949]
in documents listed with IANA
(260) and preﬁxes (261). Tag 260 distinguishes between IPv6, IPv4, and MAC
only through the length of the byte string, making it impossible, for example, to drop trailing
zeros in the encoding of IP addresses. Tag 261 was not documented well enough for use.

. These tags were intended to cover addresses

[IANA.cbor-tags]

 addresses

[RFC7042]

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes tags 54 and 52 to explicitly indicate use of IPv6 or IPv4 by the tag
number. These new tags are intended to be used in preference to tags 260 and 261. They provide
formats for IPv6 and IPv4 addresses, preﬁxes, and addresses with preﬁxes, while explicitly
indicating use of IPv6 or IPv4. The preﬁx format omits trailing zeroes in the address part. (Due to
the complexity of testing, the value of omitting trailing zeros for the pure address format was
considered nonessential, and support for that is not provided in this speciﬁcation.) This
speciﬁcation does not deal with MAC addresses (

Section 2 of [RFC7042]

).

2.  Terminology

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

SHALL

", "
OPTIONAL

 NOT", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

3.  Protocol

3.1.  Three Forms

3.1.1.  Addresses

These tags can be applied to byte strings to represent a single address.

This form is called the "Address Format".

3.1.2.  Preﬁxes

When applied to an array that starts with an unsigned integer, the tags represent a CIDR-style
preﬁx of that length.

When the Address Format (i.e., without preﬁx) appears in a context where a preﬁx is expected,
then it is to be assumed that all bits are relevant. That is, for IPv4, a /32 is implied, and for IPv6, a /
128 is implied.

This form is called the "Preﬁx Format".

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9164

CBOR Tags for IP

December 2021

3.1.3.  Interface Deﬁnition

When applied to an array that starts with a byte string, which stands for an IP address, followed
by an unsigned integer giving the bit length of a preﬁx built out of the ﬁrst length bits of the
address, the tags represent information that is commonly used to specify both the network preﬁx
and the IP address of an interface.

The length of the byte string is always 16 bytes (for IPv6) and 4 bytes (for IPv4).

This form is called the "Interface Format".

Interface Format deﬁnitions support an optional third element to the array, which is to be used as
the IPv6 link-local zone identiﬁer from
; for symmetry, this is also provided
Section 6 of [RFC4007]
. The zone identiﬁer may be an integer, in which case it is to
for IPv4 as in
[RFC6991]
be interpreted as the interface index. It may be a text string, in which case it is to be interpreted as
an interface name.

[RFC4001]

 and

[RFC4007]

, the zone identiﬁers are strictly local to the node. They are useful for

As explained in
communications within a node about connected addresses (for instance, where a link-local peer
is discovered by one daemon and another daemon needs to be informed). They may also have
utility in some management protocols.

In the cases where the Interface Format is being used to represent only an address with a zone
identiﬁer and no interface preﬁx information, the preﬁx length may be replaced with the CBOR
"null" (0xF6).

3.2.  IPv6

IANA has allocated tag 54 for IPv6 uses. (This is the ASCII code for '6'.)

An IPv6 address is to be encoded as a sixteen-byte byte string (
type 2), enclosed in tag number 54.

Section 3.1 of [RFC8949]

, major

For example:

54(h'20010db81234deedbeefcafefacefeed')

An IPv6 preﬁx, such as 2001:db8:1234::/48, is to be encoded as a two-element array, with the length
of the preﬁx ﬁrst. See Section 4 for the detailed construction of the second element.

For example:

54([48, h'20010db81234'])

An IPv6 address combined with a preﬁx length, such as one used for conﬁguring an interface, is to
be encoded as a two-element array, with the (full-length) IPv6 address ﬁrst and the length of the
associated network the preﬁx next; a third element can be added for the zone identiﬁer.

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9164

CBOR Tags for IP

December 2021

For example:

54([h'20010db81234deedbeefcafefacefeed', 56])

The address-with-preﬁx form can be reliably distinguished from the preﬁx form only in the
sequence of the array elements.

An example of a link-local IPv6 address with a 64-bit preﬁx:

54([h'fe8000000000020202fffffffe030303', 64, 'eth0'])

with a numeric zone identiﬁer:

54([h'fe8000000000020202fffffffe030303', 64, 42])

An IPv6 link-local address without a preﬁx length:

54([h'fe8000000000020202fffffffe030303', null, 42])

Zone identiﬁers may be used with any kind of IP address, not just link-local addresses. In
particular, they are valid for multicast addresses, and there may still be some signiﬁcance for
Globally Unique Addresses (GUAs).

3.3.  IPv4

IANA has allocated tag 52 for IPv4 uses. (This is the ASCII code for '4'.)

An IPv4 address is to be encoded as a four-byte byte string (
enclosed in tag number 52.

Section 3.1 of [RFC8949]

, major type 2),

For example:

52(h'c0000201')

An IPv4 preﬁx, such as 192.0.2.0/24, is to be encoded as a two-element array, with the length of the
preﬁx ﬁrst. See Section 4 for the detailed construction of the second element.

For example:

52([24, h'c00002'])

An IPv4 address combined with a preﬁx length, such as being used for conﬁguring an interface, is
to be encoded as a two-element array, with the (full-length) IPv4 address ﬁrst and the length of the
associated network the preﬁx next; a third element can be added for the zone identiﬁer.

For example, 192.0.2.1/24 is to be encoded as a two-element array, with the length of the preﬁx
(implied 192.0.2.0/24) last.

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9164

CBOR Tags for IP

December 2021

52([h'c0000201', 24])

The address-with-preﬁx form can be reliably distinguished from the preﬁx form only in the
sequence of the array elements.

4.  Tag Validity

). As with all CBOR
This section discusses when tag 54 or tag 52 is valid (
tags, validity checking can be handled in a generic CBOR library or in the application. A generic
CBOR library needs to document whether and how it handles validity checking.

Section 5.3.2 of [RFC8949]

The rule ip-address-or-prefix in Figure 1 shows how to check the overall structure of these
tags and their content, the ranges of integer values, and the lengths of byte strings. An instance of
tag 52 or 54 is valid if it matches that rule and, for ipv6-preﬁx and ipv4-preﬁx, the considerations
of Sections 4.2 and 4.3.

4.1.  Deterministic Encoding

The tag validity rules, combined with the rules in
encoding for tags 54 and 52 and require no further additional deterministic encoding
considerations as per

Section 4.2.1 of [RFC8949]

Section 4.2.2 of [RFC8949]

.

, lead to deterministic

4.2.  Encoder Considerations for Preﬁxes

For the byte strings used as the second element in the array representing a preﬁx:

MUST

 set any unused bytes and any unused bits in the ﬁnal byte, if any, to zero.
(1) An encoder
Unused bytes (or bits) are bytes (or bits) that are not covered by the preﬁx length given. So, for
example, 2001:db8:1230::/44
 be encoded as:

MUST

54([44, h'20010db81230'])

even though variations like:

54([44, h'20010db81233'])
54([44, h'20010db8123f'])
54([44, h'20010db8123012'])

start with the same 44 bits but are not valid.

(Analogous examples can be constructed for IPv4 preﬁxes.)

(2) An encoder
are all zeros.

MUST

 then omit any right-aligned (trailing) sequence of bytes in which the bytes

There is no relationship between the number of bytes omitted and the preﬁx length. For instance,
the preﬁx 2001:db8::/64 is encoded as:

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9164

CBOR Tags for IP

December 2021

54([64, h'20010db8'])

4.3.  Decoder Considerations for Preﬁxes

A decoder
preﬁx-bytes, i.e., the bits to the right of the preﬁx length, are zero.

 check that all unused bits encoded in the byte string ipv6-preﬁx-bytes/ipv4-

MUST

A decoder

MUST

 also check that the byte string does not end in a zero byte.

Since encoders are required to remove zero-valued trailing bytes, a decoder
 handle cases
where a preﬁx length speciﬁes that more bits are relevant than are actually present in the byte
string.

MUST

As an example, ::/128 is encoded as

54([128, h''])

4.3.1.  Example Implementation

A recommendation for preﬁx decoder implementations is to ﬁrst create an array of 16 (or 4) zero
bytes.

Then, taking whichever is smaller between (a) the length of the included byte string and (b) the
number of bytes covered by the preﬁx length rounded up to the next multiple of 8, fail if that
number is greater than 16 (or 4) and then copy that many bytes from the byte string into the byte
array.

Finally, when looking at the number of unused bits in the last byte (if any) of the range covered by
the preﬁx length, check that any unused bits in the byte string are zero:

unused_bits = (8 - (prefix_length_in_bits % 8)) % 8;
if (length_in_bytes > 0 &&
    (address_bytes[length_in_bytes - 1] & ~(0xFF << unused_bits))
       != 0)
  fail();

5.  CDDL

For use with Concise Data Deﬁnition Language (CDDL)
Figure 1 are recommended:

[RFC8610]

, the type names deﬁned in

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9164

CBOR Tags for IP

December 2021

ip-address-or-prefix = ipv6-address-or-prefix /
                       ipv4-address-or-prefix

ipv6-address-or-prefix = #6.54(ipv6-address /
                               ipv6-address-with-prefix /
                               ipv6-prefix)
ipv4-address-or-prefix = #6.52(ipv4-address /
                               ipv4-address-with-prefix /
                               ipv4-prefix)

ipv6-address = bytes .size 16
ipv4-address = bytes .size 4

ipv6-address-with-prefix = [ipv6-address,
                            ipv6-prefix-length / null,
                            ?ip-zone-identifier]
ipv4-address-with-prefix = [ipv4-address,
                            ipv4-prefix-length / null,
                            ?ip-zone-identifier]

ipv6-prefix-length = 0..128
ipv4-prefix-length = 0..32

ipv6-prefix = [ipv6-prefix-length, ipv6-prefix-bytes]
ipv4-prefix = [ipv4-prefix-length, ipv4-prefix-bytes]

ipv6-prefix-bytes = bytes .size (uint .le 16)
ipv4-prefix-bytes = bytes .size (uint .le 4)

ip-zone-identifier = uint / text

Figure 1: CDDL Types for Tags 54 and 52

6.  Security Considerations

This document provides a CBOR encoding for IPv4 and IPv6 address information. Any
applications using these encodings will need to consider the security implications of this data in
their speciﬁc context. For example, identifying which byte sequences in a protocol are addresses
may allow an attacker or eavesdropper to better understand what parts of a packet to attack.

Applications need to check the validity (Section 4) of a tag before acting on any of its contents. If
the validity checking is not done in the generic CBOR decoder, it needs to be done in the
application; in any case, it needs to be done before the tag is transformed into a platform-speciﬁc
representation that could conceal validity errors.

The right-hand bits of the preﬁx, after the preﬁx length, are set to zero by this protocol.
(Otherwise, a malicious party could use them to transmit covert data in a way that would not
aﬀect the primary use of this encoding. Such abuse is detected by tag validity checking and can
also be detected by examination of the raw protocol bytes.)

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9164

CBOR Tags for IP

December 2021

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has allocated two tags from the Speciﬁcation Required
Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Tags" registry

[IANA.cbor-tags]

:

[RFC8126]

 area of the "Concise

7.1.  Tag 54 - IPv6

Data Item:
Semantics:

byte string or array
IPv6, [preﬁxlen,IPv6], [IPv6,preﬁxpart]

7.2.  Tag 52 - IPv4

Data Item:
Semantics:

byte string or array
IPv4, [preﬁxlen,IPv4], [IPv4,preﬁxpart]

7.3.  Tags 260 and 261

IANA has added the note "DEPRECATED in favor of 52 and 54 for IP addresses" to registrations 260
and 261.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8610]

[RFC8949]

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

, and

,
Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Deﬁnition Language

, June 2019,

,

,

Bormann, C.
,
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
.
editor.org/info/rfc8949>

 and
,
P. Hoﬀman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
,
, December 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9164

CBOR Tags for IP

December 2021

8.2.  Informative References

[IANA.cbor-tags]

IANA "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Tags" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/cbor-tags>
.

[RFC4001]

[RFC4007]

[RFC6991]

[RFC7042]

,

Daniele, M. Haberman, B. Routhier, S.
Conventions for Internet Network Addresses" RFC 4001 DOI 10.17487/RFC4001
,
February 2005,

J. Schoenwaelder "Textual
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4001>
.

, and

,

,

,

,

,
, and
Deering, S. Haberman, B. Jinmei, T. Nordmark, E.
,
Address Architecture" RFC 4007 DOI 10.17487/RFC4007
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4007>

,

,

,
B. Zill "IPv6 Scoped
, March 2005,

<https://

Schoenwaelder, J., Ed. "Common YANG Data Types" RFC 6991 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6991

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6991>

, July 2013,

,

,

,

 and

Eastlake 3rd, D.
Documentation Usage for IEEE 802 Parameters" BCP 141 RFC 7042 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7042

J. Abley "IANA Considerations and IETF Protocol and

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7042>

, October 2013,

,

,

,

,

Acknowledgements

,

Roman Danyliw Donald Eastlake Ben Kaduk Barry Leiba
document and provided suggested text.
identiﬁers.

Jürgen Schönwälder

,

,

, and

Éric Vyncke

 reviewed the

 helped ﬁnd the history of IPv4 zone

Authors' Addresses

Michael Richardson
Sandelman Software Works
Email:

 mcr+ietf@sandelman.ca

Carsten Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI
Germany
Email:

 cabo@tzi.org

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 10

