Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9513
Standards Track
December 2023
2070-1721
Z. Li
Huawei Technologies

Z. Hu
Huawei Technologies

K. Talaulikar,
Cisco Systems

 Ed.

P. Psenak
Cisco Systems

RFC 9513
OSPFv3 Extensions for Segment Routing over IPv6
(SRv6)

Abstract

The Segment Routing (SR) architecture allows a flexible definition of the end-to-end path by
encoding it as a sequence of topological elements called segments. It can be implemented over an
MPLS or IPv6 data plane. This document describes the OSPFv3 extensions required to support SR
over the IPv6 data plane.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9513
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  SRv6 Capabilities TLV

3.  Advertisement of Supported Algorithms

4.  Advertisement of Maximum SRv6 SID Depths

4.1.  Maximum Segments Left MSD Type

4.2.  Maximum End Pop MSD Type

4.3.  Maximum H.Encaps MSD Type

4.4.  Maximum End D MSD Type

5.  SRv6 SIDs and Reachability

5.1.  SRv6 Flexible Algorithm

6.  Advertisement of Anycast Property

7.  SRv6 Locator LSA

7.1.  SRv6 Locator TLV

7.2.  SRv6 Locator Sub-TLVs

8.  Advertisement of SRv6 End SIDs

9.  Advertisement of SRv6 SIDs Associated with Adjacencies

9.1.  SRv6 End.X SID Sub-TLV

9.2.  SRv6 LAN End.X SID Sub-TLV

10. SRv6 SID Structure Sub-TLV

11. Advertising Endpoint Behaviors

12. Security Considerations

13. IANA Considerations

13.1.  OSPF Router Information TLVs

13.2.  OSPFv3 LSA Function Codes

13.3.  OSPFv3 Prefix Options

13.4.  OSPFv3 SRv6 Capabilities TLV Flags

3

4

4

5

5

6

6

6

6

6

8

8

9

10

12

12

13

14

16

17

19

19

20

20

20

20

20

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

13.5.  OSPFv3 SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV Flags

13.6.  OSPFv3 SRv6 Adjacency SID Sub-TLV Flags

13.7.  OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs

13.8.  OSPFv3 SRv6 Locator LSA TLVs

13.9.  OSPFv3 SRv6 Locator LSA Sub-TLVs

13.10. OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs

14. References

14.1.  Normative References

14.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

21

21

21

22

22

23

23

23

25

25

25

The Segment Routing (SR) architecture
an ordered list of instructions called segments. These segments are identified using Segment
Identifiers (SIDs).

 specifies how a node can steer a packet using

[RFC8402]

SR can be instantiated on the IPv6 data plane through the use of the Segment Routing Header
(SRH) defined in

. SR instantiation on the IPv6 data plane is referred to as SRv6.

[RFC8754]

The network programming paradigm for SRv6 is specified in
behavior can be bound to a SID and how any network program can be expressed as a
combination of SIDs. It also describes several well-known behaviors that can be bound to SRv6
SIDs.

. It describes how any

[RFC8986]

, and

[RFC9259]

This document specifies OSPFv3 extensions to support SRv6 capabilities as defined in
[RFC8754]
capabilities, SRv6 Locators, and required SRv6 SIDs along with their supported Endpoint
behaviors. Familiarity with
document.

. The extensions include advertisement of an OSPFv3 router's SRv6

 is necessary to understand the extensions specified in this

[RFC8986]

[RFC8986]

,

At a high level, the extensions to OSPFv3 are comprised of the following:

1.

An SRv6 Capabilities TLV to advertise the SRv6 features and SRH operations supported by an
OSPFv3 router.

2.

Several sub-TLVs to advertise various SRv6 Maximum SID Depths.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

3.

An SRv6 Locator TLV using an SRv6 Locator Link State Advertisement (LSA) to advertise the
SRv6 Locator -- a form of summary address for the IGP algorithm-specific SIDs instantiated
on an OSPFv3 router.

4.

TLVs and sub-TLVs to advertise the SRv6 SIDs instantiated on an OSPFv3 router along with
their Endpoint behaviors.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  SRv6 Capabilities TLV

The SRv6 Capabilities TLV is used by an OSPFv3 router to advertise its support for the SR
Segment Endpoint Node
an optional top-level TLV of the OSPFv3 Router Information LSA
advertised by an SRv6-enabled router.

 functionality along with its SRv6-related capabilities. This is

[RFC8754]

[RFC7770]

 that

MUST

 be

MUST

 be advertised only once in the OSPFv3 Router Information LSA. When multiple

This TLV
SRv6 Capabilities TLVs are received from a given router, the receiver
occurrence of the TLV in the OSPFv3 Router Information LSA. If the SRv6 Capabilities TLV
appears in multiple OSPFv3 Router Information LSAs that have different flooding scopes, the TLV
in the OSPFv3 Router Information LSA with the area-scoped flooding scope
 be used. If the
SRv6 Capabilities TLV appears in multiple OSPFv3 Router Information LSAs that have the same
flooding scope, the TLV in the OSPFv3 Router Information LSA with the numerically smallest
Link State ID

 be used, and subsequent instances of the TLV

 use the first

 be ignored.

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

The OSPFv3 Router Information LSA can be advertised at any of the defined flooding scopes (link,
area, or Autonomous System (AS)). For the purpose of SRv6 Capabilities TLV advertisement, area-
scoped flooding is

. Link and AS-scoped flooding is

.
OPTIONAL

REQUIRED

The format of the OSPFv3 SRv6 Capabilities TLV is shown below:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               Type            |          Length               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|             Flags             |            Reserved           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Sub-TLVs...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: SRv6 Capabilities TLV

where:

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

Type:

2-octet field. The value for this type is 20.

Length:

2-octet field. The total length (in octets) of the value portion of the TLV, including nested

sub-TLVs.

Reserved:

2-octet field. It

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

Flags:

2-octet field. The flags are defined as follows:

 0                   1
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| |O|                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

O-flag:
in

[RFC9259]

.

If set, then the router is capable of supporting the O-flag in the SRH flags, as specified

Other flags are not defined and are reserved for future use. They
transmission and

 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

MUST

 be set to 0 on

The SRv6 Capabilities TLV may contain optional sub-TLVs. No sub-TLVs are defined in this
specification.

3.  Advertisement of Supported Algorithms

An SRv6-enabled OSPFv3 router advertises its algorithm support using the SR-Algorithm TLV
[RFC8666]
.
defined in

 and as described in

[RFC8665]

4.  Advertisement of Maximum SRv6 SID Depths

An SRv6-enabled router may have different capabilities and limits related to SRH processing.
These need to be advertised to other OSPFv3 routers in the SRv6 domain.

 defines the means to advertise node- and link-specific values for Maximum SID Depth

[RFC8476]
(MSD) types. Node MSDs are advertised using the Node MSD TLV in the OSPFv3 Router
Information LSA
Router-Link TLV

, while Link MSDs are advertised using the Link MSD sub-TLV of the
. The format of the MSD types for OSPFv3 is defined in

[RFC7770]
[RFC8362]

[RFC8476]
.

The MSD types for SRv6 that are defined in
OSPFv3. These MSD types are allocated in the "IGP MSD-Types" registry maintained by IANA and
are shared by IS-IS and OSPF. They are described in the subsections below.

 for IS-IS are also used by

Section 4 of [RFC9352]

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

4.1.  Maximum Segments Left MSD Type

The Maximum Segments Left MSD Type signals the maximum value of the Segments Left field of
the SRH of a received packet before applying the Endpoint behavior associated with a SID. If no
value is advertised, the supported value is assumed to be 0.

4.2.  Maximum End Pop MSD Type

The Maximum End Pop MSD Type signals the maximum number of SIDs in the SRH to which the
router can apply "Penultimate Segment Pop (PSP) of the SRH" or "Ultimate Segment Pop (USP) of
the SRH", which are flavors defined in
advertised, then the router cannot apply the PSP or USP flavors.

. If the advertised value is zero or no value is

[RFC8986]

4.3.  Maximum H.Encaps MSD Type

The Maximum H.Encaps MSD Type signals the maximum number of SIDs that can be added as
part of the H.Encaps behavior as defined in
is advertised, then the headend can apply an SR Policy that only contains one segment without
inserting any SRH. A non-zero SRH Max H.Encaps MSD indicates that the headend can insert an
SRH with SIDs up to the advertised value.

. If the advertised value is zero or no value

[RFC8986]

4.4.  Maximum End D MSD Type

The Maximum End D MSD Type specifies the maximum number of SIDs present in an SRH when
performing decapsulation. These include, but are not limited to, End.DX6, End.DT4, End.DT46,
End with USD, and End.X with USD as defined in
. If the advertised value is zero or no
value is advertised, then the router cannot apply any behavior that results in decapsulation and
forwarding of the inner packet when the outer IPv6 header contains an SRH.

[RFC8986]

5.  SRv6 SIDs and Reachability

An SRv6 SID is 128 bits and consists of locator, function, and argument parts as described in
[RFC8986]
.

An OSPFv3 router is provisioned with algorithm-specific locators for each algorithm supported
by that router. Each locator is a covering prefix for all SIDs provisioned on that router that have
the matching algorithm.

MUST

 be advertised within an SRv6 Locator TLV (see Section 7.1) using an SRv6 Locator

Locators
LSA (see Section 7). The SRv6 Locator LSA is introduced instead of reusing the respective
Extended Prefix LSAs
 for a clear distinction between the two different types of
reachability advertisements (viz., the base OSPFv3 prefix reachability advertisements and the
SRv6 Locator reachability advertisements).

[RFC8362]

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

 be installed in the
Forwarding entries for the locators advertised in the SRv6 Locator TLV
forwarding plane of receiving SRv6-capable routers when the associated algorithm is supported
by the receiving OSPFv3 router. Locators can be of different route types that map to existing
OSPFv3 LSA types: Intra-Area, Inter-Area, External, and Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA). The
advertisement and propagation of the SRv6 Locator LSAs also follow the OSPFv3
specifications for the respective LSA types. The processing of the prefix advertised in the SRv6
Locator TLV, the calculation of its reachability, and the installation in the forwarding plane
follows the OSPFv3

 specifications for the respective LSA types.

[RFC5340]

[RFC5340]

MUST

Locators associated with algorithms 0 and 1 (refer to
advertised using Extended LSA types with extended TLVs
support SRv6 will install a forwarding entry for SRv6 traffic matching those locators. When
[RFC8362]
operating in Extended LSA sparse-mode
using Legacy LSAs

Section 3.1.1 of [RFC8402] SHOULD

, these locators

[RFC5340]
.

[RFC8362]

SHOULD

 also be advertised

 so that routers that do not

)

 also be

When SRv6 Locators are also advertised as Intra-Area-Prefix-LSAs and/or E-Intra-Area-Prefix-
 be considered as a prefix associated with the router, and the
LSAs, the SRv6 Locator
referenced LSA type
 point to the Router LSA of the advertising router as specified in
MUST
Section 4.4.3.9 of [RFC5340]
.

MUST

In cases where a locator advertisement is received both in a prefix reachability advertisement
(i.e., via Legacy LSAs and/or Extended Prefix TLVs using Extended LSAs) and an SRv6 Locator
TLV, the prefix reachability advertisement in the Legacy LSA or Extended LSA
 be preferred
over the advertisement in the SRv6 Locator TLV when installing entries in the forwarding plane.
This prevents inconsistent forwarding entries between SRv6-capable and SRv6-incapable OSPFv3
routers. Such preference for prefix reachability advertisement does not have any impact on the
rest of the data advertised in the SRv6 Locator TLV.

MUST

SRv6 SIDs are advertised as sub-TLVs in the SRv6 Locator TLV except for SRv6 End.X SIDs and
LAN End.X SIDs, which are associated with a specific neighbor/link and are therefore advertised
as sub-TLVs of the E-Router-Link TLV.

SRv6 SIDs received from other OSFPv3 routers are not directly routable and
installed in the forwarding plane. Reachability to SRv6 SIDs depends upon the existence of a
covering locator.

MUST NOT

 be

Adherence to the rules defined in this section will ensure that SRv6 SIDs associated with a
supported algorithm will be forwarded correctly, while SRv6 SIDs associated with an
unsupported algorithm will be dropped.

NOTE: The drop behavior depends on the absence of a default/summary route
matching the locator prefix.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

If the locator associated with SRv6 SID advertisements is the longest prefix match installed in the
forwarding plane for those SIDs, this will ensure correct forwarding. Network operators should
take steps to make sure that this requirement is not compromised. For example, the following
situations should be avoided:

•

Another locator associated with a different algorithm is the longest prefix match.

•

Another prefix advertised via Legacy or Extended LSA advertisement is the longest prefix
match.

5.1.  SRv6 Flexible Algorithm

 specifies IGP Flexible Algorithm mechanisms for OSPFv3.

[RFC9350]
explains SRv6 forwarding for Flexible Algorithms, and analogous procedures apply for
supporting SRv6 Flexible Algorithms using OSPFv3. When the algorithm value that is advertised
in the SRv6 Locator TLV (refer to Section 7.1) represents a Flexible Algorithm, the procedures
described in
Locators.

 are followed for the programming of those specific SRv6

Section 14.2 of [RFC9350]

Section 14.2 of [RFC9350]

Locators associated with Flexible Algorithms
prefix reachability advertisements. Advertising the Flexible Algorithm locator in a regular prefix
reachability advertisement would make it available for non-Flexible Algorithm forwarding (i.e.,
algorithm 0).

 be advertised in the base OSPFv3

SHOULD NOT

, also apply
The procedures for OSPFv3 Flexible Algorithm for SR-MPLS, as specified in
for SRv6; these procedures include a) ASBR reachability, b) inter-area, external, and NSSA prefix
advertisements, and c) the use of those prefix advertisements in Flexible Algorithm route
computation.

[RFC9350]

6.  Advertisement of Anycast Property

Both prefixes and SRv6 Locators may be configured as anycast, and as such, the same value can
be advertised by multiple routers. It is useful for other routers to know that the advertisement is
for an anycast identifier.

The AC-bit (value 0x80) in the OSPFv3 PrefixOptions field
anycast property:

[RFC5340]

 is defined to advertise the

 0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7
+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+
|AC|EL| N|DN| P| x|LA|NU|
+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+--+

Figure 2: OSPFv3 Prefix Options Field

When the prefix/SRv6 Locator is configured as anycast, the AC-bit
flag

 be clear.

MUST

MUST

 be set. Otherwise, this

The AC-bit

MUST

 be preserved when re-advertising the prefix/SRv6 Locator across areas.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

The AC-bit and the N-bit
SRv6 Locator advertisement, the receiving routers

 both be set. If the N-bit and AC-bit are both set in the prefix/
 ignore the N-bit.

MUST NOT

MUST

The same prefix/SRv6 Locator can be advertised by multiple routers. If at least one of them sets
the AC-bit in its advertisement, the prefix/SRv6 Locator is considered as anycast.

A prefix/SRv6 Locator that is advertised by a single node and without an AC-bit is considered
node-specific.

All the nodes advertising the same anycast SRv6 Locator
SIDs under that anycast SRv6 Locator. Failure to do so may result in traffic being dropped or
misrouted.

 instantiate the exact same set of

MUST

[RFC5340]

), and the SRv6 Locator TLV advertisements specified in Section 7.1 of this document.

The PrefixOptions field is common to the prefix reachability advertisements (i.e., the base
OSPFv3 prefix LSA types defined in
[RFC8362]
When a router originates both the prefix reachability advertisement and the SRv6 Locator
advertisement for a given prefix, the router
both advertisements. In the case of any inconsistency between the PrefixOptions advertised in
the SRv6 Locator and in the prefix reachability advertisements, the ones advertised in the prefix
reachability advertisement

, the OSPFv3 Extended Prefix TLV types defined in

 advertise the same PrefixOptions bits in

 be preferred.

SHOULD

MUST

7.  SRv6 Locator LSA

The SRv6 Locator LSA has a function code of 42. The S1/S2 bits are dependent on the desired
flooding scope for the LSA. The flooding scope of the SRv6 Locator LSA depends on the scope of
the advertised SRv6 Locator and is under the control of the advertising router. The U-bit will be
set indicating that the LSA should be flooded even if it is not understood.

Multiple SRv6 Locator LSAs can be advertised by an OSPFv3 router, and they are distinguished
by their Link State IDs (which are chosen arbitrarily by the originating router).

The format of the SRv6 Locator LSA is shown below:

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|            LS age             |U|S12|   Function Code         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       Link State ID                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       Advertising Router                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                       LS sequence number                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|        LS checksum            |            Length             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                                                               |
+-                            TLVs                             -+
|                             ...                               |

Figure 3: SRv6 Locator LSA

The format of the TLVs within the body of the SRv6 Locator LSA is the same as the format used by
[RFC3630]
also referred to as sub-TLVs. The format of each TLV is:

. The variable TLV section consists of one or more nested TLV tuples. Nested TLVs are

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                            Value...                           |
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
.                                                               .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: SRv6 Locator LSA TLV Format

The Length field defines the length of the value portion in octets (thus, a TLV with no value
portion would have a length of 0). The TLV is padded to 4-octet alignment; padding is not
included in the Length field (so a 3-octet value would have a length of 3, but the total size of the
TLV would be 8 octets). Nested TLVs are also 32-bit aligned. For example, a 1-byte value would
have the Length field set to 1, and 3 octets of padding would be added to the end of the value
portion of the TLV. The padding is composed of zeros.

7.1.  SRv6 Locator TLV

The SRv6 Locator TLV is a top-level TLV of the SRv6 Locator LSA that is used to advertise an SRv6
 be advertised
Locator, its attributes, and SIDs associated with it. Multiple SRv6 Locator TLVs
in each SRv6 Locator LSA. However, since the S12 bits define the flooding scope, the LSA flooding
scope has to satisfy the application-specific requirements for all the locators included in a single
SRv6 Locator LSA.

MAY

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

MUST

When multiple SRv6 Locator TLVs are received from a given router in an SRv6 Locator LSA for
the same locator, the receiver
Locator TLV for the same locator appears in multiple SRv6 Locator LSAs that have different
flooding scopes, the TLV in the SRv6 Locator LSA with the area-scoped flooding scope
 be
MUST
used. If the SRv6 Locator TLV for the same locator appears in multiple SRv6 Locator LSAs that
have the same flooding scope, the TLV in the SRv6 Locator LSA with the numerically smallest
Link State ID

 use the first occurrence of the TLV in the LSA. If the SRv6

 be used, and subsequent instances of the TLV

 be ignored.

MUST

MUST

The format of the SRv6 Locator TLV is shown below:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|              Type             |             Length            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  Route Type   |  Algorithm    | Locator Length| PrefixOptions |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             Metric                            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Locator (up to 16 octets) ...                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ... Locator continued ...                                   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ... Locator continued ...                                   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ... Locator concluded                                       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Sub-TLVs (variable)                      |
+-                                                             -+
|                             ...                               |

Figure 5: SRv6 Locator TLV

where:

Type:

2-octet field. The value for this type is 1.

Length:

2-octet field. The total length (in octets) of the value portion of the TLV, including nested

sub-TLVs.

Route Type:

1-octet field. The type of the locator route. The only supported types are the ones

listed below, and the SRv6 Locator TLV

MUST

 be ignored on receipt of any other type.

1:
2:
3:
4:
5:
6:

Intra-Area
Inter-Area
AS External Type 1
AS External Type 2
NSSA External Type 1
NSSA External Type 2

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

Algorithm:

defined in the "IGP Algorithm Types" registry

1-octet field. The algorithm associated with the SRv6 Locator. Algorithm values are
[RFC8665]

.

Locator Length:

1-octet field. Specifies the length of the locator prefix as the number of locator

bits from the range (1-128).

PrefixOptions:

1-octet field. Specifies the prefix options bits/flags as specified in

[RFC5340]

 and

further extended by

[RFC8362]

 and Section 6 of this document.

Metric:

4-octet field. The metric value associated with the SRv6 Locator. The metric value of

0xFFFFFFFF

MUST

 be considered as unreachable.

Locator:

1-16 octets. This field encodes the advertised SRv6 Locator as an IPv6 Prefix as

specified in

Appendix A.4.1 of [RFC5340]

.

Sub-TLVs:

Used to advertise sub-TLVs that provide additional attributes for the given SRv6

Locator and SRv6 SIDs associated with the SRv6 Locator.

7.2.  SRv6 Locator Sub-TLVs

The following OSPFv3 Extended-LSA sub-TLVs corresponding to the Extended Prefix LSAs are
also applicable for use as sub-TLVs of the SRv6 Locator TLV using code points as specified in
Section 13.9:

•

IPv6-Forwarding-Address sub-TLV

[RFC8362]

•

Route-Tag sub-TLV

[RFC8362]

•

Prefix Source OSPF Router-ID sub-TLV

[RFC9084]

•

Prefix Source Router Address sub-TLV

[RFC9084]

8.  Advertisement of SRv6 End SIDs

The SRv6 End SID sub-TLV is a sub-TLV of the SRv6 Locator TLV in the SRv6 Locator LSA (defined
in Section 7). It is used to advertise the SRv6 SIDs belonging to the router along with their
associated Endpoint behaviors. SIDs associated with adjacencies are advertised as described in
Section 9. Every SRv6-enabled OSPFv3 router
 advertise at least one SRv6 SID associated
with an End behavior for itself as specified in
node is not going to be used as a Segment Endpoint (e.g., for TE or Topology Independent Loop-
Free Alternate (TI-LFA)) by any SR Source Node.

SHOULD
[RFC8986]

 omit doing so if that

, although it

MAY

SRv6 End SIDs inherit the algorithm from the parent locator. The SRv6 End SID
from its associated locator. SRv6 End SIDs that are NOT allocated from the associated locator
MUST

 be ignored.

MUST

 be allocated

MAY

 advertise multiple instances of the SRv6 End SID sub-TLV within the SRv6

The router
Locator TLV -- one for each of the SRv6 SIDs to be advertised. When multiple SRv6 End SID sub-
TLVs are received in the SRv6 Locator TLV from a given router for the same SRv6 SID value, the
receiver

 use the first occurrence of the sub-TLV in the SRv6 Locator TLV.

MUST

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

The format of the SRv6 End SID sub-TLV is shown below

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               Type            |          Length               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Flags     |   Reserved    |        Endpoint Behavior      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   SID (128 bits) ...                                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ... SID continued ...                                       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ... SID continued ...                                       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ... SID concluded                                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Sub-TLVs (variable) . . .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV

where:

Type:

2-octet field. The value for this type is 1.

Length:

2-octet field. The total length (in octets) of the value portion of the sub-TLV, including its

nested sub-TLVs.

Flags:

1-octet field. Specifies the flags associated with the SID. No flags are currently defined,

and this field

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

Reserved:

1-octet field. It

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

Endpoint Behavior:
[RFC8986]

2-octet field. The Endpoint behavior code point for this SRv6 SID as defined

in
document. Unsupported or unrecognized behavior values are ignored by the receiver.

. Supported behavior values for this sub-TLV are defined in Section 11 of this

SID:

16-octet field. This field encodes the advertised SRv6 SID.

Sub-TLVs:

Used to advertise sub-TLVs that provide additional attributes for the given SRv6 SID.

9.  Advertisement of SRv6 SIDs Associated with Adjacencies

[RFC8986]

The SRv6 Endpoint behaviors defined in
 include certain behaviors that are specific to
links or adjacencies. The most basic of these (which is critical for link-state routing protocols like
OSPFv3) is the End.X behavior, which is an instruction to forward to a specific neighbor on a
specific link. These SRv6 SIDs and others that are defined in
or adjacencies, need to be advertised to OSPFv3 routers within an area to steer SRv6 traffic over
a specific link or adjacency.

, which are specific to links

[RFC8986]

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

Therefore, SRv6 SIDs that are specific to a particular neighbor, such as End.X, are not advertised
as a sub-TLVs of the SRv6 Locator TLV. Instead, they are advertised via two different optional sub-
TLVs of the E-Router-Link TLV defined in

[RFC8362]
:

SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLV:

Used for OSPFv3 adjacencies over point-to-point or point-to-multipoint

links and for the adjacency to the Designated Router (DR) over broadcast and Non-Broadcast-
Multi-Access (NBMA) links.

SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLV:

Used for OSPFv3 adjacencies on broadcast and NBMA links to the

Backup DR and DR-Other neighbors. This sub-TLV includes the OSPFv3 Router-ID of the
neighbor and thus allows for an instance of this sub-TLV for each neighbor to be explicitly
advertised as a sub-TLV of the E-Router-Link TLV for the same link.

SHOULD

Every SRv6-enabled OSPFv3 router
corresponding to each of its neighbors, although it
that require End.X SID are not in use. A router
MAY
a single neighbor. The same SRv6 End.X SID
Thus, multiple instances of the SRv6 End.X SID and SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLVs
advertised within the E-Router-Link TLV for a single link.

MAY

 omit doing so if features like TE or TI-LFA
MAY
 instantiate more than one SRv6 End.X SID for

 instantiate at least one unique SRv6 End.X SID

 be advertised for more than one neighbor.

MAY

 be

MUST

All End.X and LAN End.X SIDs
 be subsumed by the subnet of a locator with the matching
algorithm that is advertised by the same OSPFv3 router in an SRv6 Locator TLV. End.X SIDs that
do not meet this requirement
 be ignored. This ensures that the OSPFv3 router advertising
the End.X or LAN End.X SID is also advertising its corresponding locator with the algorithm that
will be used for computing paths destined to the SID.

MUST

9.1.  SRv6 End.X SID Sub-TLV

The format of the SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLV is shown below:

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               Type            |          Length               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|        Endpoint Behavior      |     Flags     |   Reserved1   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Algorithm   |    Weight     |           Reserved2           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   SID (128 bits) ...                                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ... SID continued ...                                       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ... SID continued ...                                       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ... SID concluded                                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    Sub-TLVs (variable) . . .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: SRv6 End.X SID Sub-TLV

where:

Type:

2-octet field. The value for this type is 31.

Length:

2-octet field. The total length (in octets) of the value portion of the sub-TLV, including its

nested sub-TLVs.

Endpoint Behavior:
[RFC8986]

2-octet field. The Endpoint behavior code point for this SRv6 SID as defined

in
document. Unsupported or unrecognized behavior values are ignored by the receiver.

. Supported behavior values for this sub-TLV are defined in Section 11 of this

Flags:

1-octet field. The flags are defined as follows:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|B|S|P| Reserved|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

B-Flag:

Backup Flag. If set, the SID refers to a path that is eligible for protection.

S-Flag:

Set Flag. When set, the S-Flag indicates that the End.X SID refers to a set of

adjacencies (and therefore

MAY

 be assigned to other adjacencies as well).

P-Flag:

Persistent Flag. If set, the SID is persistently allocated, i.e., the SID value remains

consistent across router restart and session/interface flap.

Other flags are not defined and are reserved for future use. They
transmission and

 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

MUST

 be set to 0 on

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

Reserved1:

1-octet field. It

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

Algorithm:

1-octet field. The algorithm associated with the SRv6 Locator from which the SID is

allocated. Algorithm values are defined in the "IGP Algorithm Types" registry

[RFC8665]

.

Weight:

1-octet field. Its value represents the weight of the End.X SID for load-balancing. The

use of the weight is defined in

[RFC8402]

.

Reserved2:

2-octet field. It

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

SID:

16-octet field. This field encodes the advertised SRv6 SID.

Sub-TLVs:

Used to advertise sub-TLVs that provide additional attributes for the given SRv6

End.X SID.

9.2.  SRv6 LAN End.X SID Sub-TLV

The format of the SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLV is as shown below:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               Type            |          Length               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      Endpoint Behavior        |     Flags     |   Reserved1   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Algorithm   |    Weight     |           Reserved2           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Neighbor Router-ID                                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   SID (128 bits) ...                                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ... SID continued ...                                       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ... SID continued ...                                       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   ... SID concluded                                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Sub-TLVs (variable) . . .
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 8: SRv6 LAN End.X SID Sub-TLV

where:

Type:

2-octet field. The value for this type is 32.

Length:

2-octet field. The total length (in octets) of the value portion of the sub-TLV, including its

nested sub-TLVs.

Endpoint Behavior:

2-octet field. The code point for the Endpoint behavior for this SRv6 SID as

defined in

Section 9.2 of [RFC8986]

.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

Flags:

1-octet field. The flags are defined as follows:

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|B|S|P| Reserved|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

B-Flag:

Backup Flag. If set, the SID refers to a path that is eligible for protection.

S-Flag:

Set Flag. When set, the S-Flag indicates that the End.X SID refers to a set of

adjacencies (and therefore

MAY

 be assigned to other adjacencies as well).

P-Flag:

Persistent Flag. If set, the SID is persistently allocated, i.e., the SID value remains

consistent across router restart and session/interface flap.

Other flags are not defined and are reserved for future use. They
transmission and

 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

MUST

 be set to 0 on

Reserved1:

1-octet field. It

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

Algorithm:

1-octet field. The algorithm associated with the SRv6 Locator from which the SID is

allocated. Algorithm values are defined in the "IGP Algorithm Types" registry

[RFC8665]

.

Weight:

1-octet field. Its value represents the weight of the End.X SID for load balancing. The

use of the weight is defined in

[RFC8402]

.

Reserved2:

2-octet field. It

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

Neighbor Router-ID:

4-octet field. It specifies the OSPFv3 Router-ID of the neighbor.

SID:

16-octet field. This field encodes the advertised SRv6 SID.

Sub-TLVs:

Used to advertise sub-TLVs that provide additional attributes for the given SRv6 SID.

10.  SRv6 SID Structure Sub-TLV

The SRv6 SID Structure sub-TLV is used to advertise the structure of the SRv6 SID as defined in
[RFC8986]

. It is used as an optional sub-TLV of the following:

•

SRv6 End SID sub-TLV (refer to Section 8)

•

SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLV (refer to Section 9.1)

•

SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLV (refer to Section 9.2)

The sub-TLV has the following format:

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               Type            |          Length               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    LB Length  |  LN Length    | Fun. Length   |  Arg. Length  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 9: SRv6 SID Structure Sub-TLV

where:

Type:

2-octet field. The value for this type is 30.

Length:

2-octet field. The value

MUST

 be 4.

LB Length:

1-octet field. SRv6 SID Locator Block length in bits.

LN Length:

1-octet field. SRv6 SID Locator Node length in bits.

Function Length:

1-octet field. SRv6 SID Function length in bits.

Argument Length:

1-octet field. SRv6 SID Argument length in bits.

The SRv6 SID Structure sub-TLV
appears more than once in its parent sub-TLV, the parent sub-TLV
receiver.

MUST NOT

 appear more than once in its parent sub-TLV. If it

MUST

 be ignored by the

The sum of all four sizes advertised in SRv6 SID Structure sub-TLV
128 bits. If the sum of all four sizes advertised in the SRv6 SID Structure sub-TLV is larger than
128 bits, the parent TLV or sub-TLV

 be ignored by the receiver.

 be less than or equal to

MUST

MUST

The SRv6 SID Structure sub-TLV is intended for informational use by the control and
[RFC8754]
management planes. It
forwarding packets. As an example, this information could be used for the following:

 be used at a transit node (as defined in

MUST NOT

) for

•

Validation of SRv6 SIDs being instantiated in the network and advertised via OSPFv3. These
[RFC9514]
 and then monitored for conformance to
can be learned by controllers via BGP-LS
the SRv6 SID allocation scheme chosen by the operator as described in
[RFC8986]

Section 3.2 of

.

•

Verification and the automation for securing the SRv6 domain by provisioning filtering rules
at SR domain boundaries as described in

Section 5 of [RFC8754]

.

The details of these potential applications are outside the scope of this document.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

11.  Advertising Endpoint Behaviors

Endpoint behaviors are defined in
defined in the "SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors" registry of
behaviors and their code points, which
each type

[RFC8986]

 appear.

MAY

MAY

. The code points for the Endpoint behaviors are
. This section lists the Endpoint

[RFC8986]

 be advertised by OSPFv3 and the sub-TLVs in which

Endpoint
Behavior

Endpoint Behavior Code
Point

End
SID

End.X
SID

LAN End.X
SID

End (PSP, USP, USD)

1-4, 28-31

End.X (PSP, USP,
USD)

5-8, 32-35

End.DX6

End.DX4

End.DT6

End.DT4

End.DT64

16

17

18

19

20

Table 1: SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors in OSPFv3

12.  Security Considerations

Y

N

N

N

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

Y

N

N

N

N

Y

Y

Y

N

N

N

This document introduces extensions to the OSPFv3 protocol and, as such, does not affect
[RFC5340] [RFC7166]
existing security considerations for OSPFv3 as documented in
.
alternative and improved authentication mechanism to IPsec for OSPFv3. The use of
authentication is

 for OSPFv3 deployment.

RECOMMENDED

 describes an

Reception of a malformed TLV or sub-TLV
manner for further analysis.

SHOULD

 be counted and/or logged in a rate-limited

This document describes the OSPFv3 extensions required to support SR over an IPv6 data plane.
The security considerations for SR are discussed in
Network Programming concept and specifies the main SR behaviors to enable the creation of
interoperable overlays. The security considerations from that document apply as well.

[RFC8402] [RFC8986]
.

 defines the SRv6

The advertisement of an incorrect MSD value may have negative consequences. See
for additional considerations.

[RFC8476]

Security concerns associated with the setting of the O-flag are described in

[RFC9259]
.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

Security concerns associated with the usage of Flexible Algorithms are described in

[RFC9350]
.

13.  IANA Considerations

Per this document, IANA has made allocations in OSPF- and OSPFv3-related registries and
created new registries, as detailed in the following subsections.

13.1.  OSPF Router Information TLVs

IANA has allocated the following code point in the "OSPF Router Information (RI) TLVs" registry
within the "Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) Parameters" registry group:

Value

TLV Name

Reference

20

SRv6 Capabilities

RFC 9513, Section 2

Table 2

13.2.  OSPFv3 LSA Function Codes

IANA has allocated the following code point in the "OSPFv3 LSA Function Codes" registry within
the "Open Shortest Path First v3 (OSPFv3) Parameters" registry group:

Value

LSA Function Code Name

Reference

42

SRv6 Locator LSA

RFC 9513, Section 7

Table 3

13.3.  OSPFv3 Prefix Options

IANA has allocated the following code point in the "OSPFv3 Prefix Options (8 bits)" registry
within the "Open Shortest Path First v3 (OSPFv3) Parameters" registry group:

Value Description

Reference

0x80

AC-bit

RFC 9513, Section 6

Table 4

13.4.  OSPFv3 SRv6 Capabilities TLV Flags

IANA has created a new subregistry named "OSPFv3 SRv6 Capabilities TLV Flags" within the
"Open Shortest Path First v3 (OSPFv3) Parameters" registry group to control the assignment of
bits 0 to 15 in the Flags field of the OSPFv3 SRv6 Capabilities TLV specified in this document. The
registration procedure is "Standards Action" as defined in

[RFC8126]
.

The following assignment has been made per this document:

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

Bit Description

Reference

1

O-flag

RFC 9513, Section 2

Table 5

13.5.  OSPFv3 SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV Flags

IANA has created a new subregistry named "OSPFv3 SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV Flags" within the
"Open Shortest Path First v3 (OSPFv3) Parameters" registry group to control the assignment of
bits 0 to 7 in the Flags field of the OSPFv3 SRv6 End SID sub-TLV specified in this document. The
registration procedure is "Standards Action" as defined in

[RFC8126]
.

No assignments are made by this document.

13.6.  OSPFv3 SRv6 Adjacency SID Sub-TLV Flags

IANA has created a new subregistry named "OSPFv3 SRv6 Adjacency SID Sub-TLV Flags" within
the "Open Shortest Path First v3 (OSPFv3) Parameters" registry group to control the assignment
of bits 0 to 7 in the Flags field of the OSPFv3 SRv6 End.X SID and OSPFv3 SRv6 LAN End.X SID
sub-TLVs specified in this document. The registration procedure is "Standards Action" as defined
in

[RFC8126]
.

The following assignments have been made per this document:

Bit Description

Reference

0

1

2

B-flag

S-flag

P-flag

Table 6

RFC 9513, Sections 9.1 and 9.2

RFC 9513, Sections 9.1 and 9.2

RFC 9513, Sections 9.1 and 9.2

13.7.  OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs

IANA has allocated the following code points in the "OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs" registry
within the "Open Shortest Path First v3 (OSPFv3) Parameters" registry group:

Value Description

L2BM Reference

SRv6 SID Structure

SRv6 End.X SID

SRv6 LAN End.X SID

Y

Y

Y

RFC 9513, Section 10

RFC 9513, Section 9.1

RFC 9513, Section 9.2

30

31

32

Table 7

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

13.8.  OSPFv3 SRv6 Locator LSA TLVs

IANA has created a new subregistry named "OSPFv3 SRv6 Locator LSA TLVs" within the "Open
Shortest Path First v3 (OSPFv3) Parameters" registry group to define top-level TLVs for the
OSPFv3 SRv6 Locator LSA. The initial assignments are below:

Value Description

Reference

Reserved

RFC 9513

SRv6 Locator

RFC 9513, Section 7.1

0

1

Table 8

Types in the range 0-32767 are allocated via IETF Review or IESG Approval

[RFC8126]
.

Types in the range 32768-33023 are Reserved for Experimental Use; these will not be registered
with IANA and

 be mentioned by RFCs.

MUST NOT

Types in the range 33024-45055 are to be assigned on a First Come First Served (FCFS) basis.

Types in the range 45056-65535 are not to be assigned at this time. Before any assignments can
be made in the 45056-65535 range, there
Considerations that cover the range being assigned.

 be an IETF specification that specifies IANA

MUST

13.9.  OSPFv3 SRv6 Locator LSA Sub-TLVs

IANA has created a new subregistry named "OSPFv3 SRv6 Locator LSA Sub-TLVs" within the
"Open Shortest Path First v3 (OSPFv3) Parameters" registry group to define sub-TLVs at any level
of nesting for the SRv6 Locator LSA TLV. The initial assignment are below:

Value Description

Reserved

Reference

RFC 9513

0

1

2

3

4

5

SRv6 End SID

RFC 9513, Section 8

IPv6-Forwarding-Address

[RFC8362]

; RFC 9513, Section 7.2

Route-Tag

[RFC8362]

; RFC 9513, Section 7.2

Prefix Source OSPF Router-ID

[RFC9084]

; RFC 9513, Section 7.2

Prefix Source Router Address

[RFC9084]

; RFC 9513, Section 7.2

10

SRv6 SID Structure

RFC 9513, Section 10

Table 9

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

Types in the range 0-32767 are allocated via IETF Review or IESG Approval

[RFC8126]
.

Types in the range 32768-33023 are Reserved for Experimental Use; these will not be registered
with IANA and

 be mentioned by RFCs.

MUST NOT

Types in the range 33024-45055 are to be assigned on a FCFS basis.

Types in the range 45056-65535 are not to be assigned at this time. Before any assignments can
be made in the 45056-65535 range, there
Considerations that cover the range being assigned.

 be an IETF specification that specifies IANA

MUST

The following note has been added to this registry to ensure that any document requesting
allocations in this registry for sub-TLVs of any of the OSPFv3 SRv6 Locator TLVs checks if
allocations are also applicable for the "OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs" registry.

Note: Allocations made in this registry for sub-TLVs that are associated with OSPFv3
SRv6 Locator TLVs
 be evaluated for their applicability as OSPFv3 Extended-LSA
sub-TLVs, which are required to be allocated in the "OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs"
registry.

MUST

13.10.  OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs

IANA has added the following note to the "OSPFv3 Extended-LSA Sub-TLVs" registry within the
"Open Shortest Path First v3 (OSPFv3) Parameters" registry group. The purpose of this note is to
ensure that any document requesting allocations in this registry for sub-TLVs of any of the
OSPFv3 Extended Prefix TLVs checks if allocations are also applicable for the "OSPFv3 SRv6
Locator LSA Sub-TLVs" registry defined in this document.

Note: Allocations made in this registry for sub-TLVs that are associated with OSPFv3
Extended TLVs related to prefix advertisements
applicability as OSPFv3 SRv6 Locator sub-TLVs, which are required to be allocated in the
"OSPFv3 SRv6 Locator LSA Sub-TLVs" registry.

 be evaluated for their

MUST

14.  References

14.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5340]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Coltun, R. Ferguson, D. Moy, J.
10.17487/RFC5340

,
, July 2008,

,

, and

A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

.

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

[RFC7166]

[RFC7770]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8362]

[RFC8402]

[RFC8476]

[RFC8665]

[RFC8666]

[RFC8754]

[RFC8986]

[RFC9084]

Bhatia, M. Manral, V.
,
OSPFv3" RFC 7166 DOI 10.17487/RFC7166
editor.org/info/rfc7166>

, and

,

,

.

A. Lindem "Supporting Authentication Trailer for

,

, March 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Lindem, A., Ed. Shen, N. Vasseur, JP. Aggarwal, R.
,
,
OSPF for Advertising Optional Router Capabilities" RFC 7770 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7770

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7770>

, February 2016,

, and
,

S. Shaffer "Extensions to

,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Lindem, A. Roy, A. Goethals, D. Reddy Vallem, V.
State Advertisement (LSA) Extensibility" RFC 8362 DOI 10.17487/RFC8362
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8362>

, and
,

F. Baker "OSPFv3 Link

,

,

,

,

.

, April

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

,

.

, and

R.
, July

,

Tantsura, J. Chunduri, U. Aldrin, S.
Depth (MSD) Using OSPF" RFC 8476 DOI 10.17487/RFC8476
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8476>

P. Psenak "Signaling Maximum SID
, December 2018,

, and
,

,
,

,

.

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Filsfils, C. Gredler, H. Shakir, R. Henderickx, W.
,
,
and
10.17487/RFC8665

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8665>

J. Tantsura "OSPF Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC 8665 DOI

, December 2019,

,

,

,

,

,

.

 and

Psenak, P., Ed.
8666 DOI 10.17487/RFC8666
,
rfc8666>

.

S. Previdi, Ed. "OSPFv3 Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC

,

,

, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Dukes, D., Ed. Previdi, S. Leddy, J. Matsushima, S.
"IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)" RFC 8754 DOI 10.17487/RFC8754
2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8754>

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

D. Voyer
,
, March

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Camarillo, P., Ed. Leddy, J. Voyer, D. Matsushima, S.
"Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) Network Programming" RFC 8986 DOI
10.17487/RFC8986

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8986>

, February 2021,

, and
,

Z. Li

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Wang, A. Lindem, A. Dong, J. Psenak, P.
Originator Extensions" RFC 9084 DOI 10.17487/RFC9084
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9084>
.

, and

,

,

,

K. Talaulikar, Ed. "OSPF Prefix

,
, August 2021,

<https://

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

[RFC9259]

[RFC9350]

[RFC9352]

,

,

Ali, Z. Filsfils, C. Matsushima, S. Voyer, D.
Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) in Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)"
RFC 9259 DOI 10.17487/RFC9259
, June 2022,
rfc9259>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

M. Chen "Operations,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Hegde, S. Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K.
,
Algorithm" RFC 9350 DOI 10.17487/RFC9350
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9350>

.

,

, and

A. Gulko "IGP Flexible

,

, February 2023,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Filsfils, C. Bashandy, A. Decraene, B.
,
,
to Support Segment Routing over the IPv6 Data Plane" RFC 9352 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9352

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9352>

Z. Hu "IS-IS Extensions

, February 2023,

, and
,

,

.

14.2.  Informative References

[RFC3630]

[RFC9514]

,

D. Yeung "Traffic Engineering (TE) Extensions to
Katz, D. Kompella, K.
, and
<https://
OSPF Version 2" RFC 3630 DOI 10.17487/RFC3630
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3630>

, September 2003,

,

.

,

,

Dawra, G. Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Chen, M. Bernier, D.
,
,
"Border Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS) Extensions for Segment Routing
over IPv6 (SRv6)" RFC 9514 DOI 10.17487/RFC9514
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9514>

, December 2023,

B. Decraene

<https://

, and

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

The authors would like to acknowledge the contributions of
 for their
versions of this document. The authors would like to thank
suggestions related to the extension of PrefixOptions for the signaling of the anycast property.

Dean Cheng
Ran Chen

 in the early draft

Detao Zhao

 and

,

The authors would like to thank
Hegde Dhruv Dhody Martin Vigoureux
this document. The authors would like to thank
and feedback for improvement of this document. The authors would like to thank
for his AD review and suggestions to improve this document.

Chenzichao Dirk Goethals Baalajee S Yingzhen Qu Shraddha
 for their review and comments on
 for his detailed shepherd review

,
Reese Enghardt
Acee Lindem

John Scudder

,
, and

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Zhenbin Li
Huawei Technologies
Email:

 lizhenbin@huawei.com

Zhibo Hu
Huawei Technologies
Email:

 huzhibo@huawei.com

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9513

OSPFv3 Extensions for SRV6

December 2023

editor
)

Ketan Talaulikar (
Cisco Systems
India
Email:

 ketant.ietf@gmail.com

Peter Psenak
Cisco Systems
Slovakia
Email:

 ppsenak@cisco.com

Li, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

