Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9611
Standards Track
July 2024
2070-1721
A. Antony
secunet

T. Brunner
codelabs

S. Klassert
secunet

P. Wouters
Aiven

RFC 9611
Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)
Support for Per‑Resource Child Security Associations
(SAs)

Abstract

In order to increase the bandwidth of IPsec traffic between peers, this document defines one
Notify Message Status Types and one Notify Message Error Types payload for the Internet Key
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2) to support the negotiation of multiple Child Security
Associations (SAs) with the same Traffic Selectors used on different resources, such as CPUs.

The SA_RESOURCE_INFO notification is used to convey information that the negotiated Child SA
and subsequent new Child SAs with the same Traffic Selectors are a logical group of Child SAs
where most or all of the Child SAs are bound to a specific resource, such as a specific CPU. The
TS_MAX_QUEUE notify conveys that the peer is unwilling to create more additional Child SAs for
this particular negotiated Traffic Selector combination.

Using multiple Child SAs with the same Traffic Selectors has the benefit that each resource
holding the Child SA has its own Sequence Number Counter, ensuring that CPUs don't have to
synchronize their cryptographic state or disable their packet replay protection.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9611
.

Antony, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9611

IKEv2 Support for Per-Resource Child SAs

July 2024

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Terminology

2.  Performance Bottlenecks

3.  Negotiation of Resource-Specific Child SAs

4.  Implementation Considerations

5.  Payload Format

5.1.  SA_RESOURCE_INFO Notify Message Status Type Payload

5.2.  TS_MAX_QUEUE Notify Message Error Type Payload

6.  Operational Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

3

3

3

4

4

4

5

6

6

7

8

8

8

8

9

9

9

Antony, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9611

IKEv2 Support for Per-Resource Child SAs

July 2024

1.  Introduction

Most IPsec implementations are currently limited to using one hardware queue or a single CPU
resource for a Child SA. Running packet stream encryption in parallel can be done, but there is a
bottleneck of different parts of the hardware locking or waiting to get their sequence number
assigned for the packet being encrypted. The result is that a machine with many such resources
is limited to using only one of these resources per Child SA. This severely limits the throughput
that can be attained. For example, at the time of writing, an unencrypted link of 10 Gbps or more
is commonly reduced to 2-5 Gbps when IPsec is used to encrypt the link using AES-GCM. By using
the implementation specified in this document, aggregate throughput increased from 5Gbps
using 1 CPU to 40-60 Gbps using 25-30 CPUs.

While this could be (partially) mitigated by setting up multiple narrowed Child SAs (for example,
using Populate From Packet (PFP) as specified in IPsec architecture
), this IPsec feature
would cause too many Child SAs (one per network flow) or too few Child SAs (one network flow
used on multiple CPUs). PFP is also not widely implemented.

[RFC4301]

To make better use of multiple network queues and CPUs, it can be beneficial to negotiate and
install multiple Child SAs with identical Traffic Selectors. IKEv2
installing multiple Child SAs with identical Traffic Selectors, but it offers no method to indicate
that the additional Child SA is being requested for performance increase reasons and is
restricted to some resource (queue or CPU).

 already allows

[RFC7296]

When an IKEv2 peer is receiving more additional Child SAs for a single set of Traffic Selectors
than it is willing to create, it can return an error notify of TS_MAX_QUEUE.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Terminology

This document uses the following terms defined in IKEv2
Selector (TS), Traffic Selector initiator (TSi), Traffic Selector responder (TSr), Child SA,
Configuration Payload (CP), IKE SA, CREATE_CHILD_SA, and NO_ADDITIONAL_SAS.

[RFC7296]

: Notification Data, Traffic

This document also uses the following terms defined in
(SPD), SA.

[RFC4301]

: Security Policy Database

Antony, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9611

IKEv2 Support for Per-Resource Child SAs

July 2024

2.  Performance Bottlenecks

There are several pragmatic reasons why most implementations must restrict a Child Security
Association (SA) to a single specific hardware resource. A primary limitation arises from the
challenges associated with sharing cryptographic states, counters, and sequence numbers among
multiple CPUs. When these CPUs attempt to simultaneously utilize shared states, it becomes
impractical to do so without incurring a significant performance penalty. It is necessary to
negotiate and establish multiple Child SAs with identical Traffic Selector initiator (TSi) and Traffic
Selector responder (TSr) on a per-resource basis.

3.  Negotiation of Resource-Specific Child SAs

An initial IKEv2 exchange is used to set up an IKE SA and the initial Child SA. If multiple Child
SAs with the same Traffic Selectors that are bound to a single resource are desired, the initiator
will add the SA_RESOURCE_INFO notify payload to the Exchange negotiating the Child SA (e.g.,
IKE_AUTH or CREATE_CHILD_SA). If this initial Child SA will be tied to a specific resource, it
indicate this by including an identifier in the Notification Data. A responder that is willing to
have multiple Child SAs for the same Traffic Selectors will respond by also adding the
 add a non-zero Notification Data.
SA_RESOURCE_INFO notify payload in which it

MAY

MAY

Additional resource-specific Child SAs are negotiated as regular Child SAs using the
CREATE_CHILD_SA exchange and are similarly identified by an accompanying
SA_RESOURCE_INFO notification.

Upon installation, each resource-specific Child SA is associated with an additional local selector,
such as the CPU. These resource-specific Child SAs
properties that were negotiated for the initial Child SA. This includes cryptographic algorithms,
Traffic Selectors, Mode (e.g., transport mode), compression usage, etc. However, each Child SA
does have its own keying material that is individually derived according to the regular IKEv2
process. The SA_RESOURCE_INFO notify payload
data. This identifying data
TS payloads, and the peer

 contain some identifying
 be a unique identifier within all the Child SAs with the same

 be negotiated with identical Child SA

 only use it for debugging purposes.

 be empty or

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

MAY

MAY

Additional Child SAs can be started on demand or can be started all at once. Peers may also
delete specific per-resource Child SAs if they deem the associated resource to be idle.

During the CREATE_CHILD_SA rekey for the Child SA, the SA_RESOURCE_INFO notification
be included, but regardless of whether or not it is included, the rekeyed Child SA should be
bound to the same resource(s) as the Child SA that is being rekeyed.

MAY

4.  Implementation Considerations

There are various considerations that an implementation can use to determine the best
procedure to install multiple Child SAs.

Antony, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9611

IKEv2 Support for Per-Resource Child SAs

July 2024

A simple procedure could be to install one additional Child SA on each CPU. An implementation
can ensure that one Child SA can be used by all CPUs, so that while negotiating a new per-CPU
Child SA, which typically takes 1 RTT delay, the CPU with no CPU-specific Child SA can still
encrypt its packets using the Child SA that is available for all CPUs. Alternatively, if an
implementation finds it needs to encrypt a packet but the current CPU does not have the
resources to encrypt this packet, it can relay that packet to a specific CPU that does have the
capability to encrypt the packet, although this will come with a performance penalty.

Performing per-CPU Child SA negotiations can result in both peers initiating additional Child SAs
simultaneously. This is especially likely if per-CPU Child SAs are triggered by individual
SADB_ACQUIRE messages
with the least amount of additional Child SAs for this TSi/TSr pair.

. Responders should install the additional Child SA on a CPU

[RFC2367]

When the number of queue or CPU resources are different between the peers, the peer with the
least amount of resources may decide to not install a second outbound Child SA for the same
resource, as it will never use it to send traffic. However, it must install all inbound Child SAs
because it has committed to receiving traffic on these negotiated Child SAs.

If per-CPU packet trigger (e.g., SADB_ACQUIRE) messages are implemented (see Section 6), the
Traffic Selector (TSi) entry containing the information of the trigger packet should be included in
the TS set similarly to regular Child SAs as specified in IKEv2
. Based on the
trigger TSi entry, an implementation can select the most optimal target CPU to install the
additional Child SA on. For example, if the trigger packet was for a TCP destination to port 25
(SMTP), it might be able to install the Child SA on the CPU that is also running the mail server
process. Trigger packet Traffic Selectors are documented in IKEv2

[RFC7296], Section 2.9
.

[RFC7296], Section 2.9

As per IKEv2, rekeying a Child SA
the new Child SA covers everything that the rekeyed Child SA covers. This includes Traffic
Selectors negotiated via Configuration Payloads such as INTERNAL_IP4_ADDRESS, which may use
the original wide TS set or use the narrowed TS set.

 use the same (or wider) Traffic Selectors to ensure that

SHOULD

5.  Payload Format

The Notify Payload format is defined in IKEv2
convenience.

[RFC7296], Section 3.10

, and is copied here for

All multi-octet fields representing integers are laid out in big endian order (also known as "most
significant byte first", or "network byte order").

Antony, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9611

IKEv2 Support for Per-Resource Child SAs

July 2024

5.1.  SA_RESOURCE_INFO Notify Message Status Type Payload

                    1                   2                   3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
| Next Payload  |C|  RESERVED   |         Payload Length        |
+---------------+---------------+-------------------------------+
|  Protocol ID  |   SPI Size    |      Notify Message Type      |
+---------------+---------------+-------------------------------+
|                                                               |
~               Resource Identifier (optional)                  ~
|                                                               |
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+

(C)ritical flag -

MUST

 be 0.

Protocol ID (1 octet) -

MUST

 be 0.

MUST

 be ignored if not 0.

SPI Size (1 octet) -

MUST

 be 0.

MUST

 be ignored if not 0.

Notify Status Message Type value (2 octets) -

set to 16444.

Resource Identifier (optional) -

This opaque data may be set to convey the local identity of the

resource.

5.2.  TS_MAX_QUEUE Notify Message Error Type Payload

                    1                   2                   3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+---------------+---------------+-------------------------------+
| Next Payload  |C|  RESERVED   |         Payload Length        |
+---------------+---------------+-------------------------------+
|  Protocol ID  |   SPI Size    |      Notify Message Type      |
+---------------+---------------+-------------------------------+

(C)ritical flag -

MUST

 be 0.

Protocol ID (1 octet) -

MUST

 be 0.

MUST

 be ignored if not 0.

SPI Size (1 octet) -

MUST

 be 0.

MUST

 be ignored if not 0.

Notify Message Error Type (2 octets) -

set to 48.

There is no data associated with this Notify type.

Antony, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9611

IKEv2 Support for Per-Resource Child SAs

July 2024

6.  Operational Considerations

 extend their local SPD selector, and the

Implementations supporting per-CPU SAs
SHOULD
mechanism of on-demand negotiation that is triggered by traffic to include a CPU (or queue)
identifier in their packet trigger (e.g., SADB_ACQUIRE) message from the SPD to the IKE daemon.
An implementation that does not support receiving per-CPU packet trigger messages
 initiate
all its Child SAs immediately upon receiving the (only) packet trigger message it will receive from
the IPsec stack. Such an implementation also needs to be careful when receiving a Delete Notify
request for a per-CPU Child SA, as it has no method to detect when it should bring up such a per-
CPU Child SA again later. Also, bringing the deleted per-CPU Child SA up again immediately after
receiving the Delete Notify might cause an infinite loop between the peers. Another issue with
not bringing up all its per-CPU Child SAs is that if the peer acts similarly, the two peers might end
up with only the first Child SA without ever activating any per-CPU Child SAs. It is therefore
RECOMMENDED

 to implement per-CPU packet trigger messages.

MAY

SHOULD

Peers
 be flexible with the maximum number of Child SAs they allow for a given TSi/TSr
combination in order to account for corner cases. For example, during Child SA rekeying, there
might be a large number of additional Child SAs created before the old Child SAs are torn down.
Similarly, when using on-demand Child SAs, both ends could trigger multiple Child SA requests
as the initial packet causing the Child SA negotiation might have been transported to the peer via
the first Child SA, where its reply packet might also trigger an on-demand Child SA negotiation to
start. As additional Child SAs consume little additional resources, allowing at the very least
double the number of available CPUs is
 allow
unlimited additional Child SAs and only limit this number based on its generic resource
protection strategies that are used to require COOKIES or refuse new IKE or Child SA
negotiations. Although having a very large number (e.g., hundreds or thousands) of SAs may
slow down per-packet SAD lookup.

. An implementation

RECOMMENDED

MAY

Implementations might support dynamically moving a per-CPU Child SA from one CPU to
another CPU. If this method is supported, implementations must be careful to move both the
inbound and outbound SAs. If the IPsec endpoint is a gateway, it can move the inbound SA and
outbound SA independently of each other. It is likely that for a gateway, IPsec traffic would be
asymmetric. If the IPsec endpoint is the same host responsible for generating the traffic, the
inbound and outbound SAs
 remain as a pair on the same CPU. If a host previously
skipped installing an outbound SA because it would be an unused duplicate outbound SA, it will
have to create and add the previously skipped outbound SA to the SAD with the new CPU ID. The
inbound SA may not have a CPU ID in the SAD. Adding the outbound SA to the SAD requires
access to the key material, whereas updating the CPU selector on an existing outbound SAs might
not require access to key material. To support this, the IKE software might have to hold on to the
key material longer than it normally would, as it might actively attempt to destroy key material
from memory that the IKE daemon no longer needs access to.

SHOULD

Antony, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9611

IKEv2 Support for Per-Resource Child SAs

July 2024

An implementation that does not accept any further resource-specific Child SAs
the NO_ADDITIONAL_SAS error because it could be misinterpreted by the peer to mean that no
other Child SA with a different TSi and/or TSr is allowed either. Instead, it
TS_MAX_QUEUE.

MUST NOT

 return

MUST

 return

7.  Security Considerations

Similar to how an implementation should limit the number of half-open SAs to limit the impact
of a denial-of-service attack, it is
number of additional Child SAs allowed per unique TSi/TSr.

 that an implementation limits the maximum

RECOMMENDED

Using multiple resource-specific child SAs makes sense for high-volume IPsec connections on
IPsec gateway machines where the administrator has a trust relationship with the peer's
administrator and abuse is unlikely and easily escalated to resolve.

This trust relationship is usually not present for the deployments of remote access VPNs, and
allowing per-CPU Child SAs is
NOT
RECOMMENDED

 in these scenarios. Therefore, it is also

 to allow per-CPU Child SAs by default.

NOT RECOMMENDED

The SA_RESOURCE_INFO notify contains an optional data payload that can be used by the peer to
identify the Child SA belonging to a specific resource. Notification data
identifier that can be used to gain information about the hardware. For example, using the CPU
number itself as the identifier might give an attacker knowledge of which packets are handled by
which CPU ID, and it might optimize a brute-force attack against the system.

SHOULD NOT

 be an

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered one new value in the "IKEv2 Notify Message Status Types" registry.

Value Notify Message Status Type

Reference

16444

SA_RESOURCE_INFO

RFC 9611

Table 1

IANA has registered one new value in the "IKEv2 Notify Message Error Types" registry.

Value Notify Message Error Type

Reference

48

TS_MAX_QUEUE

RFC 9611

Table 2

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

Antony, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9611

IKEv2 Support for Per-Resource Child SAs

July 2024

[RFC2119]

[RFC7296]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Kaufman, C. Hoffman, P. Nir, Y. Eronen, P.
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" STD 79 RFC 7296 DOI 10.17487/RFC7296
October 2014,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7296>
.

T. Kivinen "Internet Key

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC2367]

[RFC4301]

,

McDonald, D. Metz, C.
RFC 2367 DOI 10.17487/RFC2367
rfc2367>

, and

,
.

B. Phan "PF_KEY Key Management API, Version 2"

,

,

, July 1998,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

Kent, S.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4301
rfc4301>

.

K. Seo "Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol" RFC 4301

,

,

,

, December 2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Acknowledgements

The following people provided reviews and valuable feedback:
Tero Kivinen Murray Kucherawy John Scudder Valery Smyslov Gunter van de Velde
Vyncke
.

Roman Danyliw Warren Kumari
,
,

, and

Éric

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Antony Antony
secunet Security Networks AG
Email:

antony.antony@secunet.com

Tobias Brunner
codelabs GmbH
Email:

tobias@codelabs.ch

Steffen Klassert
secunet Security Networks AG
Email:

steffen.klassert@secunet.com

Paul Wouters
Aiven
Email:

paul.wouters@aiven.io

Antony, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

