Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9701
Standards Track
January 2025
2070-1721
T. Lodderstedt, Ed.
yes.com AG

V. Dzhuvinov
Connect2id Ltd.

RFC 9701
JSON Web Token (JWT) Response for OAuth Token
Introspection

Abstract

This specification proposes an additional response secured by JSON Web Token (JWT) for OAuth
2.0 Token Introspection.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9701
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9701

JWT Response

January 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Notation

3.  Resource Server Management

4.  Requesting a JWT Response

5.  JWT Response

6.  Client Metadata

7.  Authorization Server Metadata

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Cross-JWT Confusion

8.2.  Token Data Leakage

9.  Privacy Considerations

10. IANA Considerations

10.1.  OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata Registration

10.1.1.  Registry Contents

10.2.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration

10.2.1.  Registry Contents

10.3.  Media Type Registration

10.3.1.  Registry Contents

10.4.  JWT Claim Registration

10.4.1.  Registry Contents

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

3

3

3

4

4

7

8

8

8

9

9

9

9

10

10

10

11

11

12

12

12

12

13

13

13

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9701

JWT Response

January 2025

1.  Introduction

"OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection" [RFC7662]
an OAuth 2.0 authorization server to determine the state of an access token and obtain data
associated with the access token. This enables deployments to implement opaque access tokens
in an interoperable way.

 specifies a method for a protected resource to query

The introspection response, as specified in
JSON object. However, there are use cases where the resource server requires stronger assurance
that the authorization server issued the token introspection response for an access token,
including cases where the authorization server assumes liability for the content of the token
introspection response. An example is a resource server using verified personal data to create
certificates, which in turn are used to create qualified electronic signatures.

"OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection" [RFC7662]

, is a plain

 as the
In such use cases, it may be useful or even required to return a signed
introspection response. This specification extends the token introspection endpoint with the
capability to return responses as JWTs.

JWT [RFC7519]

2.  Requirements Notation

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Resource Server Management

The authorization server (AS) and the resource server (RS) maintain a strong, two-way trust
relationship. The resource server relies on the authorization server to obtain authorization, user,
and other data as input to its access control decisions and service delivery. The authorization
server relies on the resource server to handle the provided data appropriately.

In the context of this specification, the token introspection endpoint is used to convey such
security data and potentially also privacy-sensitive data related to an access token.

In order to process the introspection requests in a secure and privacy-preserving manner, the
authorization server

 be able to identify, authenticate, and authorize resource servers.

MUST

MAY

The AS
the AS is provisioned with encryption keys and algorithms for the RS.

 additionally encrypt the token introspection response JWTs. If encryption is used,

MUST

The AS
 be able to determine whether an RS is the audience for a particular access token
and what data it is entitled to receive; otherwise, the RS is not authorized to obtain data for the
access token. The AS has the discretion of how to fulfill this requirement. The AS could, for
example, maintain a mapping between scope values and RSs.

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9701

JWT Response

January 2025

The requirements given above imply that the AS maintains credentials and other configuration
data for each RS.

One way is by utilizing dynamic client registration
client. In this case, the AS is assumed to at least maintain a "client_id" and a
"token_endpoint_auth_method" with complementary authentication method metadata, such as
"jwks" or "client_secret". In cases where the AS needs to acquire consent to transmit data to an
RS, the following client metadata fields are recommended: "client_name", "client_uri", "contacts",
"tos_uri", and "policy_uri".

 and treating every RS as an OAuth

[RFC7591]

MUST

 restrict the use of client credentials by an RS to the calls it requires, e.g., the AS

The AS
restrict such a client to call the token introspection endpoint only. How the AS implements this
restriction is beyond the scope of this specification.

MAY

This specification further introduces client metadata to manage the configuration options
required to sign and encrypt token introspection response JWTs.

4.  Requesting a JWT Response

An RS requests a JWT introspection response by sending an introspection request with an Accept
HTTP header field set to "application/token-introspection+jwt".

MUST

 authenticate the caller at the token introspection endpoint. Authentication can

The AS
utilize client authentication methods or a separate access token that is issued to the RS and
identifies the RS as the subject.

The following is a non-normative example request, with the RS authenticating with a private key
JWT:

POST /introspect HTTP/1.1
Host: as.example.com
Accept: application/token-introspection+jwt
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

token=2YotnFZFEjr1zCsicMWpAA&
client_assertion_type=
 urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3Aclient-assertion-type%3Ajwt-bearer&
 client_assertion=PHNhbWxwOl[...omitted for brevity...]ZT

5.  JWT Response

The introspection endpoint responds with a JWT, setting the Content-Type HTTP header field to
"application/token-introspection+jwt" and the JWT typ ("type") header parameter to "token-
introspection+jwt".

The JWT

MUST

 include the following top-level claims:

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9701

iss

JWT Response

January 2025

MUST

 be set to the issuer URL of the authorization server.

aud

MUST

 identify the resource server receiving the token introspection response.

iat

 be set to the time when the introspection response was created by the authorization

MUST
server

token_introspection

A JSON object containing the members of the token introspection response, as specified in
[RFC7662], Section 2.2
JSON object containing a JWT claim is intended to prevent conflict and confusion with top-
level JWT claims that may bear the same name.

. The separation of the introspection response members into a dedicated

If the access token is invalid, expired, revoked, or not intended for the calling resource server
(audience), the authorization server
MUST
token_introspection claim to false and
active member is set to true.

 set the value of the active member in the
MUST NOT

 include other members. Otherwise, the

The AS

SHOULD

 narrow down the scope value to the scopes relevant to the particular RS.

Section 2.2 of [RFC7662]

As specified in
response with service-specific claims. In the context of this specification, such claims will be
added as top-level members of the token_introspection claim.

 extend the token introspection

, implementations

MAY

Token introspection response parameter names intended to be used across domains
registered in the
[IANA.OAuth.Token.Introspection]

"OAuth Token Introspection Response" registry
 defined by

[RFC7662]
.

MUST

 be

When the AS acts as a provider of resource owner identity claims to the RS, the AS
determines, based on its RS-specific policy, what identity claims to return in the token
introspection response. The AS
legally based (see Section 9).

 ensure the release of any privacy-sensitive data is

MUST

Further content of the introspection response is determined by the RS-specific policy at the
AS.

 include other claims, including those from the "JSON Web Token Claims" registry

MAY

The JWT
established by
measure to prevent misuse of the JWT as an access token (see Section 8.1).

SHOULD NOT

. The JWT

[RFC7519]

 include the sub and exp claims, as an additional

Note: Although the JWT format is widely used as an access token format, the JWT returned in the
introspection response is not an alternative representation of the introspected access token and
is not intended to be used as an access token.

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9701

JWT Response

January 2025

This specification registers the "application/token-introspection+jwt" media type, which is used
as the value of the typ ("type") header parameter of the JWT to indicate that the payload is a
token introspection response.

The JWT is cryptographically secured as specified in

[RFC7519]
.

Depending on the specific resource server policy, the JWT is either signed or signed and
encrypted. If the JWT is signed and encrypted, it
[RFC7519]
.

 be a Nested JWT, as defined in

MUST

JWT

Note: An AS compliant with this specification
 refuse to serve introspection requests that
don't authenticate the caller and return an HTTP status code 400. This is done to ensure token
 behavior
data is released to legitimate recipients only and prevent downgrading to
(see Section 8.2).

[RFC7662]

MUST

The following is a non-normative example response (with line breaks for display purposes only):

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/token-introspection+jwt

eyJraWQiOiJ3RzZEIiwidHlwIjoidG9rZW4taW50cm9zcGVjdGlvbitqd3QiLCJhbGc
iOiJSUzI1NiJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FzLmV4YW1wbGUuY29tLyIsImF1ZCI6I
mh0dHBzOi8vcnMuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20vcmVzb3VyY2UiLCJpYXQiOjE1MTQ3OTc4OTIs
InRva2VuX2ludHJvc3BlY3Rpb24iOnsiYWN0aXZlIjp0cnVlLCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczo
vL2FzLmV4YW1wbGUuY29tLyIsImF1ZCI6Imh0dHBzOi8vcnMuZXhhbXBsZS5jb20vcm
Vzb3VyY2UiLCJpYXQiOjE1MTQ3OTc4MjIsImV4cCI6MTUxNDc5Nzk0MiwiY2xpZW50X
2lkIjoicGFpQjJnb28wYSIsInNjb3BlIjoicmVhZCB3cml0ZSBkb2xwaGluIiwic3Vi
IjoiWjVPM3VwUEM4OFFyQWp4MDBkaXMiLCJiaXJ0aGRhdGUiOiIxOTgyLTAyLTAxIiw
iZ2l2ZW5fbmFtZSI6IkpvaG4iLCJmYW1pbHlfbmFtZSI6IkRvZSIsImp0aSI6InQxRm
9DQ2FaZDRYdjRPUkpVV1ZVZVRaZnNLaFczMENRQ3JXRERqd1h5NncifX0.przJMU5Gh
mNzvwtt1Sr-xa9xTkpiAg5IshbQsRiRVP_7eGR1GHYrNwQh84kxOkHCyje2g5WSRcYo
sGEVIiC-eoPJJ-qBwqwSlgx9JEeCDw2W5DjrblOI_N0Jvsq_dUeOyoWVMqlOydOBhKN
Y0smBrI4NZvEExucOm9WUJXMuJtvq1gBes-0go5j4TEv9sOP9uu81gqWTr_LOo6pgT0
tFFyZfWC4kbXPXiQ2YT6mxCiQRRNM-l9cBdF6Jx6IOrsfFhBuYdYQ_mlL19HgDDOFal
eyqmru6lKlASOsaE8dmLSeKcX91FbG79FKN8un24iwIDCbKT9xlUFl54xWVShNDFA

The example response JWT header contains the following JSON document:

{
  "typ": "token-introspection+jwt",
  "alg": "RS256",
  "kid": "wG6D"
}

The example response JWT payload contains the following JSON document:

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9701

JWT Response

January 2025

{
  "iss":"https://as.example.com/",
  "aud":"https://rs.example.com/resource",
  "iat":1514797892,
  "token_introspection":
     {
        "active":true,
        "iss":"https://as.example.com/",
        "aud":"https://rs.example.com/resource",
        "iat":1514797822,
        "exp":1514797942,
        "client_id":"paiB2goo0a",
        "scope":"read write dolphin",
        "sub":"Z5O3upPC88QrAjx00dis",
        "birthdate":"1982-02-01",
        "given_name":"John",
        "family_name":"Doe",
        "jti":"t1FoCCaZd4Xv4ORJUWVUeTZfsKhW30CQCrWDDjwXy6w"
     }
}

6.  Client Metadata

The authorization server determines the algorithm to secure the JWT for a particular
introspection response. This decision can be based on registered metadata parameters for the
resource server, supplied via dynamic client registration
acting as a client, as specified below.

 with the resource server

[RFC7591]

The parameter names follow the pattern established by
Registration [OpenID.Registration]
responses at the UserInfo endpoint.

 for configuring signing and encryption algorithms for JWT

OpenID Connect Dynamic Client

The following client metadata parameters are introduced by this specification:

introspection_signed_response_alg

.

OPTIONAL "JSON Web Signature (JWS)" [RFC7515]
Web Algorithms (JWA)" [RFC7518]
response will be signed using JWS and the configured algorithm. The default, if omitted, is
RS256.

"JSON
, for signing introspection responses. If this is specified, the

 algorithm (alg value), as defined in

introspection_encrypted_response_alg

.
, for content key encryption. If this is specified, the response will be encrypted using

OPTIONAL "JSON Web Encryption (JWE)" [RFC7516]
[RFC7518]
JWE and the configured content encryption algorithm
(introspection_encrypted_response_enc). The default, if omitted, is that no encryption is
performed. If both signing and encryption are requested, the response will be signed then
encrypted, with the result being a Nested JWT, as defined in

 algorithm (alg value), as defined in

JWT [RFC7519]

JWA

.

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9701

JWT Response

January 2025

introspection_encrypted_response_enc

.

OPTIONAL JWE [RFC7516]
 algorithm (enc value), as defined in
encryption of introspection responses. The default, if omitted, is A128CBC-HS256. Note: This
parameter

 be specified without setting introspection_encrypted_response_alg.

JWA [RFC7518]

, for content

MUST NOT

Resource servers may register their public encryption keys using the jwks_uri or jwks metadata
parameters.

7.  Authorization Server Metadata

SHOULD

Authorization servers
JWT of an introspection response by utilizing
[RFC8414]
requests.

 publish the supported algorithms for signing and encrypting the

"OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Metadata"

 parameters. Resource servers use this data to parametrize their client registration

The following parameters are introduced by this specification:

introspection_signing_alg_values_supported

OPTIONAL
as defined in

. JSON array containing a list of the

JWS [RFC7515]

 signing algorithms (alg values),

JWA [RFC7518]

, supported by the introspection endpoint to sign the response.

introspection_encryption_alg_values_supported

OPTIONAL
values), as defined in
content encryption key for introspection responses (content key encryption).

. JSON array containing a list of the
JWA [RFC7518]

JWE [RFC7516]

, supported by the introspection endpoint to encrypt the

 encryption algorithms (alg

introspection_encryption_enc_values_supported
. JSON array containing a list of the
JWA [RFC7518]

OPTIONAL
values), as defined in
response (content encryption).

JWE [RFC7516]

 encryption algorithms (enc

, supported by the introspection endpoint to encrypt the

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Cross-JWT Confusion

The iss and potentially the aud claim of a token introspection JWT can resemble those of a JWT-
encoded access token. An attacker could try to exploit this and pass a JWT token introspection
response as an access token to the resource server. The typ ("type") JWT header "token-
introspection+jwt" and the encapsulation of the token introspection members, such as sub and
scope in the token_introspection claim, are intended to prevent such substitution attacks.
Resource servers
 therefore check the typ JWT header value of received JWT-encoded
access tokens and ensure all minimally required claims for a valid access token are present.

MUST

Resource servers
described in

 additionally apply the countermeasures against access token replay, as
MUST
[RFC9700]
.

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9701

JWT Response

January 2025

JWT confusion and other attacks involving JWTs are discussed in

[RFC8725]
.

8.2.  Token Data Leakage

The authorization server
[RFC9325]

, in order to prevent token data leakage.

MUST

 use Transport Layer Security (TLS) 1.2 (or higher), per BCP 195

Section 2.1 of [RFC7662]
 permits requests to the introspection endpoint to be authorized with an
access token that doesn't identify the caller. To prevent introspection of tokens by parties that are
not the intended consumer, the authorization server
introspection endpoint to be authenticated.

 require all requests to the token

MUST

9.  Privacy Considerations

The token introspection response can be used to transfer personal identifiable information (PII)
from the AS to the RS. The AS
transfer before any data is released to a particular RS. The details and determining of these
constraints vary by jurisdiction and are outside the scope of this document.

 conform to legal and jurisdictional constraints for the data

MUST

A commonly found way to establish the legal basis for releasing PII is by explicit user consent
gathered from the resource owner by the AS during the authorization flow.

It is also possible that the legal basis is established out of band, for example, in an explicit
contract or by the client gathering the resource owner's consent.

If the AS and the RS belong to the same legal entity (1st party scenario), there is potentially no
need for an explicit user consent, but the terms of service and policy of the respective service
provider

 be enforced at all times.

MUST

 ensure that the scope of the legal basis is enforced throughout the

MUST

In any case, the AS
whole process. The AS
scope value, it
receive based on the RS's identity and suitable token data, e.g., the scope value.

 authenticate the RS, and the AS

MUST

MUST

MUST

 retain the scope of the legal basis with the access token, e.g., in the

 determine the data an RS is allowed to

Implementers should be aware that a token introspection request lets the AS know when the
client (and potentially the user) is accessing the RS, which is also an indication of when the user
is using the client. If this implication is not acceptable, implementers
 use other means to
relay access token data, for example, by directly transferring the data needed by the RS within
the access token.

MUST

10.  IANA Considerations

10.1.  OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata Registration

The following client metadata definitions have been registered in the IANA "OAuth Dynamic
Client Registration Metadata" registry

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

 established by

[RFC7591]
:

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9701

JWT Response

January 2025

10.1.1.  Registry Contents

introspection_signed_response_alg

String value indicating the client's desired introspection response

Client Metadata Name:
Client Metadata Description:

signing algorithm

Change Controller:
Reference:

IETF
Section 6 of RFC 9701

introspection_encrypted_response_alg

String value specifying the desired introspection response content

Client Metadata Name:
Client Metadata Description:

key encryption algorithm (alg value)

Change Controller:
Reference:

IETF
Section 6 of RFC 9701

Client Metadata Name:
Client Metadata Description:

introspection_encrypted_response_enc

String value specifying the desired introspection response content

encryption algorithm (enc value)

Change Controller:
Reference:

IETF
Section 6 of RFC 9701

10.2.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registration

The following values have been registered in the IANA "OAuth Authorization Server Metadata"
registry

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

 established by

[RFC8414]
.

10.2.1.  Registry Contents

Metadata Name:
Metadata Description:

introspection_signing_alg_values_supported

JSON array containing a list of algorithms supported by the

authorization server for introspection response signing

Change Controller:
Reference:

IETF
Section 7 of RFC 9701

Metadata Name:
Metadata Description:

introspection_encryption_alg_values_supported

JSON array containing a list of algorithms supported by the

authorization server for introspection response content key encryption (alg value)

Change Controller:
Reference:

IETF
Section 7 of RFC 9701

Metadata Name:
Metadata Description:

introspection_encryption_enc_values_supported

JSON array containing a list of algorithms supported by the
authorization server for introspection response content encryption (enc value)

Change Controller:

IETF

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9701

JWT Response

January 2025

Reference: Section 7 of RFC 9701

10.3.  Media Type Registration

The "application/token-introspection+jwt" media type has been registered in the "Media Types"
registry
the content is a token introspection response in JWT format.

 in the manner described in

. It can be used to indicate that

[IANA.MediaTypes]

[RFC6838]

10.3.1.  Registry Contents

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

token-introspection+jwt

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

binary. A token introspection response is a JWT; JWT values are

encoded as a series of base64url-encoded values (with trailing '=' characters removed), some
of which may be the empty string, separated by period ('.') characters.

Security considerations:

See Section 8 of RFC 9701

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published specification:

Section 4 of RFC 9701

Applications that use this media type:

Applications that produce and consume OAuth Token

Introspection Responses in JWT format

Fragment identifier considerations:

N/A

Additional information:
Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh file type code(s):

N/A
N/A

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Torsten Lodderstedt (torsten@lodderstedt.net)

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

none

Author:

Torsten Lodderstedt (torsten@lodderstedt.net)

Change controller:

IETF

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9701

JWT Response

January 2025

10.4.  JWT Claim Registration

The "token_introspection" claim has been registered in the "JSON Web Token (JWT)" registry
[IANA.JWT]

 in the manner described in

[RFC7519]
.

10.4.1.  Registry Contents

token_introspection

Claim Name:
Claim Description:
Change Controller:
Reference:

Token introspection response
IETF
Section 5 of RFC 9701

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[IANA.JWT]

IANA "JSON Web Token (JWT) Claims" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/jwt>
,

,

.

[IANA.MediaTypes]

IANA "Media Types" <http://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types>

,

,

.

[IANA.OAuth.Token.Introspection]

IANA "OAuth Token Introspection Response" <https://

,

,

www.iana.org/assignments/oauth-parameters>

.

[OpenID.Registration]

Sakimura, N. Bradley, J.
,
Registration 1.0 incorporating errata set 1"
specs/openid-connect-registration-1_0.html>

, and

.

,

M. Jones "OpenID Connect Dynamic Client
<https://openid.net/

, November 2014,

[RFC2119]

[RFC6838]

[RFC7515]

[RFC7516]

[RFC7518]

[RFC7519]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Freed, N. Klensin, J.
,
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

T. Hansen "Media Type Specifications and Registration

, January 2013,

<https://

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC7515

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Signature (JWS)" RFC 7515
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>

, May 2015,

,

,

, and

,

Jones, M.
10.17487/RFC7516

 and

J. Hildebrand "JSON Web Encryption (JWE)" RFC 7516 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7516>

.

Jones, M. "JSON Web Algorithms (JWA)" RFC 7518 DOI 10.17487/RFC7518
2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7518>

,

,

,

.

, May

Jones, M. Bradley, J.
,
10.17487/RFC7519

, and

N. Sakimura "JSON Web Token (JWT)" RFC 7519 DOI

,

,

,

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>

.

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9701

JWT Response

January 2025

[RFC7591]

[RFC7662]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8414]

[RFC8725]

[RFC9325]

[RFC9700]

,

Richer, J., Ed. Jones, M. Bradley, J. Machulak, M.
, and
,
Dynamic Client Registration Protocol" RFC 7591 DOI 10.17487/RFC7591
,
2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7591>

P. Hunt "OAuth 2.0

,

,

,

.

, July

Richer, J., Ed. "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection" RFC 7662 DOI 10.17487/RFC7662
,
,
October 2015,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7662>

,
.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Jones, M. Sakimura, N.
Metadata" RFC 8414 DOI 10.17487/RFC8414
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8414>

, and

,

.

J. Bradley "OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server
, June 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

Sheffer, Y. Hardt, D.
,
BCP 225 RFC 8725 DOI 10.17487/RFC8725
,
editor.org/info/rfc8725>

, and

,

,

.

M. Jones "JSON Web Token Best Current Practices"
<https://www.rfc-
, February 2020,

,

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

Lodderstedt, T. Bradley, J. Labunets, A.
, and
OAuth 2.0 Security" BCP 240 RFC 9700 DOI 10.17487/RFC9700
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9700>

D. Fett "Best Current Practice for
, January 2025,

,

,

,

.

11.2.  Informative References

[IANA.OAuth.Parameters]

IANA "OAuth Parameters" <http://www.iana.org/assignments/

,

,
oauth-parameters>
.

Acknowledgements

,
We would like to thank
Justin Richer Takahiko Kawasaki Benjamin Kaduk Robert Wilton
, and
,
valuable feedback.

,
,

,

,

Petteri Stenius Neil Madden Filip Skokan Tony Nadalin Remco Schaar

,
Roman Danyliw

,
 for their

Authors' Addresses

Torsten Lodderstedt (
yes.com AG
Email:

torsten@lodderstedt.net

editor
)

Vladimir Dzhuvinov
Connect2id Ltd.
Email:

vladimir@connect2id.com

Lodderstedt & Dzhuvinov

Standards Track

Page 13

