Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9483
Standards Track
November 2023
2070-1721
H. Brockhaus
Siemens

D. von Oheimb
Siemens

S. Fries
Siemens

RFC 9483
Lightweight Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)
Profile

Abstract

This document aims at simple, interoperable, and automated PKI management operations
covering typical use cases of industrial and Internet of Things (IoT) scenarios. This is achieved by
profiling the Certificate Management Protocol (CMP), the related Certificate Request Message
Format (CRMF), and transfer based on HTTP or Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) in a
succinct but sufficiently detailed and self-contained way. To make secure certificate management
for simple scenarios and constrained devices as lightweight as possible, only the most crucial
types of operations and options are specified as mandatory. More specialized or complex use
cases are supported with optional features.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9483
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  How to Read This Document

1.2.  Conventions and Terminology

1.3.  Motivation for a Lightweight Profile of CMP

1.4.  Special Requirements of Industrial and IoT Scenarios

1.5.  Existing CMP Profiles

1.6.  Compatibility with Existing CMP Profiles

1.7.  Use of CMP in SZTP and BRSKI Environments

1.8.  Scope of This Document

1.9.  Structure of This Document

2.  Solution Architecture

3.  Generic Aspects of PKI Messages and PKI Management Operations

3.1.  General Description of the CMP Message Header

3.2.  General Description of the CMP Message Protection

3.3.  General Description of CMP Message ExtraCerts

3.4.  Generic PKI Management Operation Prerequisites

3.5.  Generic Validation of a PKI Message

3.6.  Error Handling

3.6.1.  Reporting Error Conditions Upstream

3.6.2.  Reporting Error Conditions Downstream

3.6.3.  Handling Error Conditions on Nested Messages Used for Batching

3.6.4.  PKIStatusInfo and Error Messages

4

5

5

6

7

8

8

10

10

11

11

13

14

16

16

17

18

19

19

20

20

21

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

4.  PKI Management Operations

4.1.  Enrolling End Entities

4.1.1.  Enrolling an End Entity to a New PKI

4.1.2.  Enrolling an End Entity to a Known PKI

4.1.3.  Updating a Valid Certificate

4.1.4.  Enrolling an End Entity Using a PKCS #10 Request

4.1.5.  Using MAC-Based Protection for Enrollment

4.1.6.  Adding Central Key Pair Generation to Enrollment

4.1.6.1.  Using the Key Transport Key Management Technique

4.1.6.2.  Using the Key Agreement Key Management Technique

4.1.6.3.  Using the Password-Based Key Management Technique

4.2.  Revoking a Certificate

4.3.  Support Messages

4.3.1.  Get CA Certificates

4.3.2.  Get Root CA Certificate Update

4.3.3.  Get Certificate Request Template

4.3.4.  CRL Update Retrieval

4.4.  Handling Delayed Delivery

5.  PKI Management Entity Operations

5.1.  Responding to Requests

5.1.1.  Responding to a Certificate Request

5.1.2.  Responding to a Confirmation Message

5.1.3.  Responding to a Revocation Request

5.1.4.  Responding to a Support Message

5.1.5.  Initiating Delayed Delivery

5.2.  Forwarding Messages

5.2.1.  Not Changing Protection

5.2.2.  Adding Protection and Batching of Messages

5.2.2.1.  Adding Protection to a Request Message

5.2.2.2.  Batching Messages

22

25

26

31

32

33

34

35

40

41

42

43

45

47

47

48

51

52

56

57

57

58

58

58

58

59

60

61

61

62

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

5.2.3.  Replacing Protection

5.2.3.1.  Not Changing Proof-of-Possession

5.2.3.2.  Using raVerified

5.3.  Acting on Behalf of Other PKI Entities

5.3.1.  Requesting a Certificate

5.3.2.  Revoking a Certificate

6.  CMP Message Transfer Mechanisms

6.1.  HTTP Transfer

6.2.  CoAP Transfer

6.3.  Piggybacking on Other Reliable Transfer

6.4.  Offline Transfer

6.4.1.  File-Based Transfer

6.4.2.  Other Asynchronous Transfer Protocols

7.  Conformance Requirements

7.1.  PKI Management Operations

7.2.  Message Transfer

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Example CertReqTemplate

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

63

64

65

65

66

66

67

67

69

71

71

71

71

72

72

74

75

76

77

77

78

80

83

83

1.  Introduction

This document specifies PKI management operations supporting machine-to-machine and IoT
use cases. Its focus is to maximize automation and interoperability between all involved PKI
entities, ranging from end entities (EEs) over any number of intermediate PKI management

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

,

Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)

 endpoints of certification authority (CA) systems. This profile makes use of the
CMP [RFC4210] [RFC9480] [RFC9481] Certificate Request

entities, such as registration authorities (RAs), to the
[RFC4210]
concepts and syntax specified in
Message Format (CRMF) [RFC4211] [RFC9045] Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) [RFC5652]
,
[RFC8933] HTTP transfer for CMP [RFC6712]
. CMP, CRMF,
, and
and CMS are feature-rich specifications, but most application scenarios use only a limited subset
of the same specified functionality. Additionally, the standards are not always precise enough on
how to interpret and implement the described concepts. Therefore, this document aims to tailor
the available options and specify how to use them in adequate detail to make the
implementation of interoperable automated certificate management as straightforward and
lightweight as possible.

CoAP transfer for CMP [RFC9482]

,

While this document was being developed, documents intended to obsolete RFC 4210
and RFC 6712
Updates [RFC9480]
.

 were posted, and they include the full set of changes described in

[HTTP-CMP]

[PKIX-CMP]
CMP

1.1.  How to Read This Document

This document has become longer than the authors would have liked it to be. Yet apart from
studying Section 3, which contains general requirements, the reader does not have to work
through the whole document. The guidance in Sections 1.9 and 7 should be used to figure out
which parts of Sections 4 to 6 are relevant for the target certificate management solution,
depending on the PKI management operations, their variants, and types of message transfer
needed.

Since conformity to this document can be achieved by implementing only the functionality
declared mandatory in Section 7, the profile can still be called lightweight because, in particular
for end entities, the mandatory-to-implement set of features is rather limited.

1.2.  Conventions and Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The term "PROHIBITED" is to be interpreted to mean that the respective ASN.1 field
be present or used.

SHALL NOT

Technical terminology is used in conformance with
IEEE 802.1AR [IEEE.802.1AR_2018]

. The following terminology is used:

[RFC4210] [RFC4211] [RFC5280]

,

,

, and

CA:

Certification authority, which issues certificates.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9483

RA:

LCMPP

November 2023

Registration authority, an optional PKI component to which a CA delegates certificate
management functions, such as end entity authentication and authorization checks for
incoming requests. An RA can also provide conversion between various certificate
management protocols and other protocols providing some operations related to
certificate management.

LRA:

Local registration authority, a specific form of RA with proximity to the end entities.

Note: For ease of reading, this document also uses the term "RA" for LRAs in all cases
where the difference is not relevant.

KGA:

Key generation authority, an optional system component, typically colocated with an RA
or CA, that offers key generation services to end entities.

EE:

End entity, typically a device or service that holds a public-private key pair for which it
manages a public key certificate. An identifier for the EE is given as the subject of its
certificate.

The following terminology is reused from

[RFC4210]

 as follows:

PKI management operation:

All CMP messages belonging to a single transaction. The
transaction is identified by the transactionID field of the message
headers.

PKI management entity:

A non-EE PKI entity, i.e., an RA or a CA.

PKI entity:

An EE or PKI management entity.

CMP messages are referred to by the names of PKIBody choices defined in
[RFC4210]

 and are further described in Section 4 of this document.

Section 5.1.2 of

The following terms are introduced in this document:

CMP protection key:

The private key used to sign a CMP message.

CMP protection certificate:

The certificate related to the CMP protection key. If the keyUsage
extension is present, it

 include digitalSignature.

MUST

1.3.  Motivation for a Lightweight Profile of CMP

CMP was standardized in 1999 and is implemented in several PKI products. In 2005, a completely
CMP [RFC4210]
reworked and enhanced version 2 of
followed by a document specifying a transfer mechanism for CMP messages using HTTP
[RFC6712]

 has been published,

CRMF [RFC4211]

 in 2012.

 and

CMP is a capable protocol and could be used more widely.
[RFC9480]
to a very wide range of scenarios; on the other hand, a full implementation supporting all
options is not realistic because this would take undue effort.

 offer a very large set of features and options. On one hand, this makes CMP applicable

CMP [RFC4210]

CMP Updates

 and

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

In order to reduce complexity, the set of mandatory PKI management operations and variants
required by this specification has been kept lean. This limits development efforts and minimizes
resource needs, which is particularly important for memory-constrained devices. To this end,
when there was design flexibility to either have necessary complexity on the EE or in the PKI
management entity, this profile chose to include it in the PKI management entities where
typically more computational resources are available. Additional recommended PKI
management operations and variants support some more complex scenarios that are considered
beneficial for environments with more specific demands or boundary conditions. The optional
PKI management operations support less common scenarios and requirements.

Moreover, many details of the Certificate Management Protocol have been left open or have not
been specified in full preciseness. The profiles specified in Appendices D and E of
define some more detailed PKI management operations. Yet the specific needs of highly
automated scenarios for machine-to-machine communication are not covered sufficiently.

[RFC4210]

Profiling is a way to reduce feature richness and complexity of standards to what is needed for
specific use cases. 3GPP and UNISIG already use profiling of CMP as a way to cope with these
challenges. To profile means to take advantage of the strengths of the given protocol while
explicitly narrowing down the options it provides to those needed for the purpose(s) at hand and
eliminating all identified ambiguities. In this way, the general aspects of the protocol are utilized
and only the special requirements of the target scenarios need to be dealt with using distinct
features the protocol offers.

Defining a profile for a new target environment takes high effort because the range of available
options needs to be well understood and the selected options need to be consistent with each
other and suitably cover the intended application scenario. Since most industrial PKI
management use cases typically have much in common, it is worth sharing this effort, which is
the aim of this document. Other standardization bodies can reference this document and further
tailor the PKI management operations to their needs to avoid coming up with individual profiles
from scratch.

1.4.  Special Requirements of Industrial and IoT Scenarios

The profiles specified in Appendices D and E of
managing certificates of human end entities. With the evolution of distributed systems and
client-server architectures, certificates for machines and applications on them have become
widely used. This trend has strengthened even more in emerging industrial and IoT scenarios.
CMP is sufficiently flexible to support them well.

 have been developed particularly for

[RFC4210]

Today's IT security architectures for industrial solutions typically use certificates for endpoint
authentication within protocols like IPsec, TLS, or Secure Shell (SSH). Therefore, the security of
these architectures highly relies upon the security and availability of the implemented certificate
management operations.

Due to increasing security and availability needs in operational technology, especially when used
for critical infrastructures and systems with a high number of certificates, a state-of-the-art
certificate management system must be constantly available and cost-efficient, which calls for

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

high automation and reliability. Consequently,
Cybersecurity" [NIST.CSWP.04162018]
verification, revocation, and audit of authorized devices, users, and processes involving identity
and credential management. According to commonly accepted best practices, such PKI
management operations are also required in

 refers to proper processes for issuance, management,

"Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure

 for security level 2 and higher.

[IEC.62443-3-3]

Further challenges in many industrial systems are network segmentation and asynchronous
communication. Also, PKI management entities like certification authorities (CAs) are not
typically deployed on-site but in a highly protected data center environment, e.g., operated
according to
certificates [ETSI-EN.319411-1]
architectures. CMP offers the required flexibility and functionality, namely authenticated self-
contained messages, efficient polling, and support for asynchronous message transfer while
retaining end-to-end authentication.

ETSI Policy and security requirements for Trust Service Providers issuing

. Certificate management must be able to cope with such network

1.5.  Existing CMP Profiles

[RFC4210]

As already stated,
operations in Appendices D and E of
user certificates and only partly address the specific needs of certificate management automation
for unattended devices or machine-to-machine application scenarios.

 contains profiles with mandatory and optional PKI management

. Those profiles focus on management of human

[RFC4210]

[RFC4210]

Both Appendices D and E of
an RA or CA. They do not address further profiling of RA-to-CA communication, which is typically
needed for full backend automation. All requirements regarding algorithm support for
Appendices D and E of
Section 7.1 of CMP Algorithms
[RFC9481]
.

 focus on PKI management operations between an EE and

 have been updated by

[RFC4210]

CMP [RFC4210]

3GPP makes use of
automatic management of IPsec certificates in 3G, LTE, and 5G backbone networks. Since 2010, a
dedicated CMP profile for initial certificate enrollment and certificate update operations between
EEs and RAs/CAs is specified in that document.

Technical Specification 33.310 [ETSI-3GPP.33.310]

 in its

 for

In 2015, UNISIG included a CMP profile for enrollment of TLS certificates in the Subset-137
specifying the
ETRAM/ETCS online key management for train control systems
[UNISIG.Subset-137]
.

Both standardization bodies tailor
[RFC6712]
and services.

 for highly automated and reliable PKI management operations for unattended devices

CMP [RFC4210] CRMF [RFC4211]
,

, and

HTTP transfer for CMP

1.6.  Compatibility with Existing CMP Profiles

The profile specified in this document is compatible with Appendices D and E of
the following exceptions:

[RFC4210]

, with

•

signature-based protection is the default protection; an initial PKI management operation
may also use protection based on the message authentication code (MAC),

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

•

certification of a second key pair within the same PKI management operation is not
supported,

•

[RFC4211], Section 4.1

proof-of-possession (POP) with the self-signature of the certReq containing the certTemplate
(according to
(deviations are possible for EEs when requesting central key generation, for RAs when using
raVerified, and if the newly generated keypair is technically not capable to generate digital
signatures),

, clause 3) is the recommended default POP method

•

confirmation of newly enrolled certificates may be omitted, and

•

all PKI management operations consist of request-response message pairs originating at the
EE, i.e., announcement messages (requiring a push model, a CMP server on the EE) are
excluded in favor of a lightweight implementation on the EE.

The profile specified in this document is compatible with the CMP profile for 3G, LTE, and 5G
network domain security and authentication framework

[ETSI-3GPP.33.310]

, except that:

•

protection of initial PKI management operations may be MAC-based,

•

the subject field is mandatory in certificate templates, and

•

confirmation of newly enrolled certificates may be omitted.

The profile specified in this document is compatible with the CMP profile for online key
management in rail networks as specified in

[UNISIG.Subset-137]

, except that:

•

A certificate enrollment request message consists of only one certificate request
(CertReqMsg).

• [RFC4210]

 requires that the messageTime is Greenwich Mean Time coded as

generalizedTime.

[UNISIG.Subset-137]

Note: As Table 5 of
be "UTC time", it is not clear if this means a coding as UTCTime or generalizedTime and if
time zones other than Greenwich Mean Time shall be allowed. Both time formats are
described in

 explicitly states that the messageTime is required to

Section 4.1.2.5 of [RFC5280]
.

•

The same type of protection is required to be used for all messages of one PKI management
operation. This means, in case the request message protection is MAC-based, the response,
certConf, and pkiConf messages must also have MAC-based protection.

•

Use of caPubs is not required but is typically allowed in combination with MAC-based
protected PKI management operations. On the other hand, Table 12 of
requires using caPubs.

[UNISIG.Subset-137]

Note: It remains unclear from UNISIG Subset-137 which certificate(s) for the caPubs field
should be used. For security reasons, it cannot be used for delivering the root CA certificate
needed to validate the signature-based protection of the given response message (as stated
indirectly also in Section 6.3.1.5.2 b of

[UNISIG.Subset-137]

).

•

This profile requires that the certConf message have one CertStatus element where the
statusInfo field is recommended.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

[UNISIG.Subset-137]

Note: In contrast, Table 18 of
CertStatus element where the statusInfo field must be absent. This precludes sending a
negative certConf message in case the EE rejects the newly enrolled certificate. This results in
violating the general rule that a certificate request transaction must include a certConf
message (moreover, since using implicitConfirm is not allowed there either).

 requires that the certConf message has one

1.7.  Use of CMP in SZTP and BRSKI Environments

Secure Zero Touch Provisioning (SZTP) [RFC8572]
In
Configuration Protocol (NETCONF) / YANG modules,
 offers a YANG module that
includes several types of certificate requests to obtain a public key certificate for a locally
generated key pair. Such messages are of the form ietf-ztp-types:cmp-csr from module ietf-ztp-csr
and offer both proof-of-possession and proof-of-identity. To allow PKI management entities that
use the module ietf-ztp-csr and also wish to comply with this profile, the ir, cr, kur, or p10cr
message
MUST
specified in Section 5.2.

 and other environments using Network
[SZTP-CSR]

 be formatted by the EE as described in Section 4.1, and it

 be forwarded, as

MAY

Bootstrapping Remote Secure Key Infrastructure (BRSKI) [RFC8995]

 environments,

"BRSKI-AE:

In
Alternative Enrollment Protocols in BRSKI" [BRSKI-AE]
employed enrollment protocols to allow alternatives to
[RFC7030]

. For the use of CMP, it requires adherence to this profile.

 describes a generalization regarding the
Enrollment over Secure Transport (EST)

1.8.  Scope of This Document

On one hand, this profile intends to reduce the flexibility of CMP to the generic needs of
automated certificate management of machine end entities. On the other hand, it offers a variety
of PKI management operations and options relevant for industrial use cases. Therefore, it is still
a framework that supports further profiling by those addressing a specific use case or scenario,
e.g., 3GPP/ETSI or UNISIG. There is room to further tailor this profile. This enables stricter
profiling to meet the concrete needs in application areas.

To minimize ambiguity and complexity through needless variety, this document specifies
exhaustive requirements for generating PKI management messages on the sender side. However,
it gives only minimal requirements on checks by the receiving side and how to handle error
cases.

Especially on the EE side, this profile aims at a lightweight implementation. This means that the
number of PKI management operation implementations are reduced to a reasonable minimum
to support typical certificate management use cases in industrial machine-to-machine
environments. On the EE side, only limited resources are expected, while on the side of the PKI
management entities, the profile accepts higher requirements.

For the sake of interoperability and robustness, implementations should, so long as security is
not affected, adhere to Postel's law: "Be conservative in what you do, be liberal in what you
accept from others" (often reworded as: "Be conservative in what you send, be liberal in what
you receive").

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Fields used in ASN.1 syntax in Sections 3, 4, or 5 are specified in
[RFC4211]
then the field
the absence of such a field and, if the field is present,

CMS [RFC5652] [RFC8933]

SHOULD NOT

, and

MUST

. When these sections do not explicitly discuss a field,

 be used by the sending entity. The receiving entity

MUST NOT

 require

CMP [RFC4210] [RFC9480] CRMF

,

 handle it gracefully.

1.9.  Structure of This Document

Section 2 introduces the general PKI architecture and approach to certificate management that is
assumed in this document.

Section 3 profiles the generic aspects of the PKI management operations specified in detail in
Sections 4 and 5 to minimize redundancy in the description and to ease implementation. This
covers the general structure and protection of messages, as well as generic prerequisites,
validation, and error handling.

Section 4 profiles the exchange of CMP messages between an EE and the PKI management entity.
There are various flavors of certificate enrollment requests, optionally with polling, central key
generation, revocation, and general support PKI management operations.

Section 5 profiles responding to requests, exchanges between PKI management entities, and
operations on behalf of other PKI entities. This may include delayed delivery of messages, which
involves polling for responses, and nesting of messages.

Section 6 outlines several mechanisms for CMP message transfer, including HTTP-based transfer
[RFC6712]
offline file-based transport.

 optionally using TLS, CoAP-based transfer

 optionally using DTLS, and

[RFC9482]

Section 7 defines which parts of the profile are mandatory, recommended, optional, or not
relevant to implement for which type of entity.

2.  Solution Architecture

To facilitate secure automatic certificate enrollment, the device hosting an EE is typically
equipped with a manufacturer-issued device certificate. Such a certificate is typically installed
during production and is meant to identify the device throughout its lifetime. This certificate can
be used to protect the initial enrollment of operational certificates after installation of the EE in
its operational environment. In contrast to the manufacturer-issued device certificate,
operational certificates are issued by the owner or operator of the device to identify the device or
one of its components for operational use, e.g., in a security protocol like IPsec, TLS, or SSH. In
IEEE 802.1AR [IEEE.802.1AR_2018]
, a manufacturer-issued device certificate is called an Initial
Device Identifier (IDevID) certificate and an operational certificate is called a Locally Significant
Device Identifier (LDevID) certificate.

Note: The owner or operator using the manufacturer-issued device certificate for authenticating
the device during initial enrollment of operational certificates
anchor provided by the manufacturer.

 trust the respective trust

MUST

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Note: According to
certificate, the corresponding private key, and the certificate chain.

IEEE 802.1AR [IEEE.802.1AR_2018]

, a DevID comprises the triple of the

All certificate management operations specified in this document follow the pull model, i.e., they
are initiated by an EE (or by an RA acting as an EE). The EE creates a CMP request message,
protects it using some asymmetric credential or shared secret information, and sends it to a PKI
management entity. This PKI management entity may be a CA or more typically an RA, which
checks the request and responds to it itself or forwards the request upstream to the next PKI
management entity. In case an RA changes the CMP request message header or body or wants to
demonstrate successful verification or authorization, it can apply a protection of its own. The
communication between an LRA and RA can be performed synchronously or asynchronously.
Asynchronous communication typically leads to delayed message delivery as described in
Section 4.4.

+-----+            +-----+                +-----+            +-----+
|     |            |     |                |     |            |     |
| EE  |<---------->| LRA |<-------------->| RA  |<---------->| CA  |
|     |            |     |                |     |            |     |
+-----+            +-----+                +-----+            +-----+

        synchronous        (a)synchronous       (a)synchronous
   +----connection----+------connection------+----connection----+

                                  operators        service partner
+---------on site---------+---back-end services--+---trust center--+

             <--- downstream <--- | ---> upstream --->

Figure 1: Certificate Management Architecture Example

In operational environments, the certificate management architecture can have multiple LRAs
bundling requests from multiple EEs at dedicated locations and one (or more than one) central
RA aggregating the requests from the LRAs. Every LRA in this scenario has shared secret
information (one per EE) for MAC-based protection or a CMP protection key and certificate,
allowing it to protect CMP messages it processes using its own credentials. The figure above
shows an architectural example with one LRA, RA, and CA. It is also possible not to have an RA or
LRA or that there is no CA with a CMP interface. Depending on the network infrastructure, the
message transfer between PKI management entities may be based on synchronous online
connections, asynchronous connections, or even offline (e.g., file-based) transfer.

Note: In contrast to the pull model used in this document, other specifications could use the
messages specified in this document to implement the push model. In this case, the EE is pushed
(triggered) by the PKI management entity to provide the CMP request; therefore, the EE acts as
the receiver, not initiating the interaction with the PKI. For example, when the device itself only
), support of
acts (as a server as described in
certificate enrollment in a push model is needed. While BRSKI-PRM currently utilizes its own
format for the exchanges, CMP in general and the messages specified in this profile offer all
required capabilities. Nevertheless, the message flow and state machine as described in Section 4
must be adapted to implement a push model.

BRSKI with Pledge in Responder Mode [BRSKI-PRM]

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Note: Third-party CAs not conforming to this document may implement other variants of CMP,
different standardized protocols, or even proprietary interfaces for certificate management. In
such cases, an RA needs to adapt the exchanged CMP messages to the flavor of certificate
management interaction required by such a nonconformant CA.

3.  Generic Aspects of PKI Messages and PKI Management
Operations

This section covers the generic aspects of the PKI management operations specified in Sections 4
and 5 as upfront general requirements to minimize redundancy in the description and to ease
implementation.

As described in

Section 5.1 of [RFC4210]

, all CMP messages have the following general structure:

+--------------------------------------------+
| PKIMessage                                 |
| +----------------------------------------+ |
| | header                                 | |
| +----------------------------------------+ |
| +----------------------------------------+ |
| | body                                   | |
| +----------------------------------------+ |
| +----------------------------------------+ |
| | protection (OPTIONAL)                  | |
| +----------------------------------------+ |
| +----------------------------------------+ |
| | extraCerts (OPTIONAL)                  | |
| +----------------------------------------+ |
+--------------------------------------------+

Figure 2: CMP Message Structure

The general contents of the message header, protection, and extraCerts fields are specified in the
following three subsections.

In case a specific PKI management operation needs different contents in the header, protection,
or extraCerts fields, the differences are described in the respective subsections of Sections 4 and
5.

The CMP message body contains the PKI management operation-specific information. It is
described in Sections 4 and 5.

Note: In the description of CMP messages, the presence of some fields is stated as
RECOMMENDED
field is present.

. The following text that states requirements on such a field applies only if the

OPTIONAL

 or

The generic prerequisites needed by the PKI entities in order to perform PKI management
operations are described in Section 3.4.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

The generic validation steps to be performed by PKI entities upon receiving a CMP message are
described in Section 3.5.

The generic aspects of handling and reporting errors are described in Section 3.6.

3.1.  General Description of the CMP Message Header

This section describes the generic header fields of all CMP messages.

Any fields or variations specific to PKI management operation are described in Sections 4 and 5.

header
  pvno                        REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 3 to indicate CMP v3 in all cases where EnvelopedData
    --   is supported and expected to be used in the current
    --   PKI management operation
    -- MUST be 3 to indicate CMP v3 in certConf messages when using
    --   the hashAlg field
    -- MUST be 2 to indicate CMP v2 in all other cases
    -- For details on version negotiation, see [RFC9480]
  sender                      REQUIRED
    -- Contains a name representing the originator, which also
    --   protects the message
    -- For signature-based protection, MUST be the subject field of
    --   the CMP protection certificate
    -- For MAC-based protection, MUST contain a name the PKI
    --   management entity can use to identify the shared secret
    --   information. This name MUST be placed in the commonName
    --   field of the directoryName choice.
    -- In a multihop scenario, the receiving entity cannot rely
    --   on the correctness of the sender field.
  recipient                   REQUIRED
    -- SHOULD be the name of the intended recipient; otherwise, the
    --   NULL-DN MUST be used
    -- In the first message of a PKI management operation, SHOULD be
    --   the subject DN of the CA the PKI management operation is
    --   requested from
    -- In all other messages, SHOULD contain the value of the sender
    --   field of the previous message in the same PKI management
    --   operation
    -- The recipient field shall be handled gracefully by the
    --   receiving entity, because in a multihop scenario, its
    --   correctness cannot be guaranteed.
  messageTime                 OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be present if the confirmWaitTime field is present
    -- MUST be the time at which the message was produced, if present
    -- MAY be set by a PKI management entity to provide the current
    --   time
    -- MAY be used by the end entity for time synchronization if the
    --   response was received within a short time frame
  protectionAlg               REQUIRED
    -- MUST be an algorithm identifier indicating the algorithm
    --   used for calculating the protection bits
    -- If it is a signature algorithm, its type MUST be
    --   MSG_SIG_ALG as specified in Section 3 of [RFC9481] and
    --   MUST be consistent with the subjectPublicKeyInfo field of

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

    --   the CMP protection certificate
    -- If it is a MAC algorithm, its type MUST be MSG_MAC_ALG, as
    --   specified in [RFC9481], Section 6.1
  senderKID                   RECOMMENDED
    -- For signature-based protection, MUST be used and contain the
    --   value of the SubjectKeyIdentifier if present in the CMP
    --   protection certificate
    -- For MAC-based protection, MUST be used and contain the same
    --   name as in the commonName field of the sender field
  transactionID               REQUIRED
    -- In the first message of a PKI management operation, MUST be
    --   128 bits of random data to minimize the probability of
    --   having the transactionID already in use at the server
    -- In all other messages, MUST be the value from the previous
    --   message in the same PKI management operation
  senderNonce                 REQUIRED
    -- MUST be cryptographically secure and fresh 128 random bits
  recipNonce                  RECOMMENDED
    -- If this is the first message of a transaction, MUST be absent
    -- If this is a delayed response message, MUST be present and
    --   contain the value of the senderNonce of the respective
    --   request message in the same transaction
    -- In all other messages, MUST be present and contain the value
    --   of the senderNonce of the previous message in the same
    --   transaction
  generalInfo                 OPTIONAL
    implicitConfirm           OPTIONAL
    -- RECOMMENDED in ir/cr/kur/p10cr messages,
    -- OPTIONAL in ip/cp/kup response messages, and
    -- PROHIBITED in other types of messages
    -- Added to request messages to request omission of the certConf
    --   message
    -- Added to response messages to grant omission of the certConf
    --   message
    -- See [RFC4210], Section 5.1.1.1.
      ImplicitConfirmValue   REQUIRED
    -- ImplicitConfirmValue MUST be NULL
    confirmWaitTime           OPTIONAL
    -- RECOMMENDED in ip/cp/kup messages if implicitConfirm is
    --   not included
    -- PROHIBITED if implicitConfirm is included
    -- See [RFC4210], Section 5.1.1.2.
      ConfirmWaitTimeValue    REQUIRED
    -- ConfirmWaitTimeValue MUST be a GeneralizedTime value
    --   specifying the point in time up to which the PKI management
    --   entity will wait for the certConf message.  The accepted
    --   length of the waiting period will vary by use case.
    certProfile               OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be present in ir/cr/kur/p10cr and in genm messages of type
    --   id-it-certReqTemplate
    -- MUST be omitted in all other messages
    -- See [RFC9480].
      CertProfileValue        REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one UTF8String element
    -- MUST contain the name of a certificate profile

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

3.2.  General Description of the CMP Message Protection

This section describes the generic protection field contents of all CMP messages. For signature-
based protection, which is the default protection mechanism for all CMP messages described in
this profile, the CMP protection key and CMP protection certificate are used. For MAC-based
protection, shared secret information is used as described in Section 4.1.5.

protection
    -- If present, the same kind of protection MUST be used for all
    --   messages of that PKI management operation.
    -- MUST be present, except if protection is not possible for
    --   error messages as described in Section 3.6.4
    -- For signature-based protection, MUST contain the signature
    --   calculated using the CMP protection key of the entity
    --   protecting the message
    -- For MAC-based protection, MUST contain a MAC calculated using
    --   the shared secret information
    -- The protection algorithm used MUST be given in the
    --   protectionAlg field.

The CMP message protection provides, if available, message origin authentication and integrity
protection for the header and body. The CMP message extraCerts field is not covered by this
protection.

Note: The extended key usages described in
for authorization of a sending PKI management entity.

Section 2.2 of CMP Updates [RFC9480]

 can be used

3.3.  General Description of CMP Message ExtraCerts

This section describes the generic extraCerts field of all CMP messages. Any specific requirements
on the extraCerts are specified in the respective PKI management operation.

extraCerts
    -- MUST be present for signature-based protection and contain the
    --   CMP protection certificate together with its chain for the
    --   first request and response message of a PKI management
    --   operation.  MAY be omitted in certConf, PKIConf, pollReq,
    --   and pollRep messages.  The first certificate in this field
    --   MUST be the CMP protection certificate followed by its
    --   chain, where each element should directly certify the one
    --   immediately preceding it.
    -- MUST be present in ip, cp, and kup messages and contain the
    --   chain of a newly issued certificate.
    -- Self-signed certificates should be omitted from extraCerts and
    --   MUST NOT be trusted based on their inclusion in any case

Note: One reason for adding a self-signed certificate to extraCerts is if it is the CMP protection
certificate or a successor root CA self-signed certificate as indicated in the HashOfRootKey
extension of the current root CA certificate; see

. Another reason for including self-

[RFC8649]

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

signed certificates in the extraCerts is, for instance, due to storage limitations. A receiving PKI
entity may not have the complete trust anchor information available but just a unique
identification of it and thus needs the full trust anchor information carried in a self-signed
certificate for further processing (see Section 9).

For maximum interoperability, all implementations
additional certificates and arbitrary orderings of the certificates.

SHOULD

 be prepared to handle potentially

3.4.  Generic PKI Management Operation Prerequisites

This subsection describes what is generally needed by the PKI entities to be able to perform PKI
management operations.

Identification of PKI entities:

•

For signature-based protection, each EE knows its own identity from the CMP protection
certificate; for MAC-based protection, it

 know its identity to fill the sender field.

MAY

•

Each EE
name of the addressed CA.

MAY

 know the intended recipient of its requests to fill the recipient field, e.g., the

Note: This name may be established using an enrollment voucher (as described in
[RFC8366]
configuration means.

), the issuer field from a CertReqTemplate response message content, or by other

Routing of CMP messages:

•

Each PKI entity sending messages upstream
messages to the next PKI management entity in case online transfer is used.

MUST

 know the address needed for transferring

Note: This address may depend on the recipient, the certificate profile, and the used transfer
mechanism.

Authentication of PKI entities:

•

Each PKI entity
it

MUST

MUST

 have credentials to authenticate itself. For signature-based protection,

 have a private key and the corresponding certificate along with its chain.

•

 be able to establish trust in the PKI it receives responses from. When

Each PKI entity
MUST
signature-based protection is used, it
information needed to perform path validation of CMP protection certificates used for
signature-based protection.

 have the trust anchor(s) and any certificate status

MUST

Note: A trust anchor is usually a root certificate of the PKI addressed by the requesting EE. It
may be established by configuration or in an out-of-band manner. For an EE, it may be
established using an enrollment voucher
a certificate response message.

 or in-band of CMP by the caPubs field in

[RFC8366]

Authorization of PKI management operations:

•

Each EE or RA
entity to perform the upstream PKI management operation.

MUST

 have sufficient information to be able to authorize the PKI management

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Note: This may be achieved, for example, by using the cmcRA extended key usage in server
certificates, by local configuration (such as specific name patterns for subject Distinguished
Name (DN) or Subject Alternative Name (SAN) portions that may identify an RA) and/or by
having a dedicated root CA usable only for authenticating PKI management entities.

•

Each PKI management entity
MUST
downstream PKI entity requesting the PKI management operation.

 have sufficient information to be able to authorize the

Note: For authorizing an RA, the same examples apply as above. The authorization of EEs
can be very specific to the application domain based on local PKI policy.

3.5.  Generic Validation of a PKI Message

This section describes generic validation steps of each PKI entity receiving a PKI request or
response message before any further processing or forwarding. If a PKI management entity
decides to terminate a PKI management operation because a check failed, it
negative response or an error message as described in Section 3.6. The PKIFailureInfo bits given
below in parentheses
Section 3.6.4; also see

 be used in the failInfo field of the PKIStatusInfo as described in

MAY
Appendix F of [RFC4210]
.

 send a

MUST

All PKI message header fields not mentioned in this section, like the recipient and generalInfo
fields,

 be handled gracefully upon receipt.

SHOULD

The following list describes the basic set of message input validation steps. Without these checks,
the protocol becomes dysfunctional.

•

The formal ASN.1 syntax of the whole message
CMP [RFC4210] [RFC9480] CRMF [RFC4211]
in
badDataFormat)

,

MUST

 be compliant with the definitions given

, and

CMS [RFC5652] [RFC8933]

. (failInfo:

•

The pvno

MUST

 be cmp2000(2) or cmp2021(3). (failInfo bit: unsupportedVersion)

•

The transactionID

MUST

 be present. (failInfo bit: badDataFormat)

•

The PKI message body type
entity and
MUST
by the given transactionID. (failInfo bit: badRequest)

 be one of the message types supported by the receiving PKI
 be allowed in the current state of the PKI management operation identified

MUST

The following list describes the set of message input validation steps required to ensure secure
protocol operation:

•

The senderNonce
badSenderNonce)

MUST

 be present and

MUST

 contain at least 128 bits of data. (failInfo bit:

•

Unless the PKI message is the first message of a PKI management operation,

MUST

 be present and

◦
the recipNonce
or equal the senderNonce of the most recent request message for which the response was
delayed, in case of delayed delivery as specified in Section 4.4. (failInfo bit:
badRecipientNonce)

 equal the senderNonce of the previous message

MUST

•

Messages without protection
Section 3.6.4.

MUST

 be rejected except for error messages as described in

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

•

The message protection
protection

MUST

 be rejected.

MUST

 be validated when present, and messages with an invalid

 identify the key material needed for verifying the message

MUST

MUST

 be signature-based except if MAC-based protection is used as

◦
The protection
described in Sections 4.1.5 and 4.1.6.3. (failInfo bit: wrongIntegrity)
◦
If present, the senderKID
protection. (failInfo bit: badMessageCheck)
If signature-based protection is used, the CMP protection certificate
◦
validated, including path validation using a trust anchor, and
MUST
according to local policies. If the keyUsage extension is present in the CMP protection
certificate, the digitalSignature bit
signerNotTrusted)
◦
The sender of a request message
PKI policies. (failInfo bit: notAuthorized)

MUST
 be authorized

MUST

MUST

 be set. (failInfo bit: badAlg, badMessageCheck, or

 be authorized to request the operation according to

 be successfully

[RFC5280] MUST

Note: The requirements for checking certificates given in
signature-based CMP message protection. Unless the message is a positive ip/cp/kup, where the
issuing CA certificate of the newly enrolled certificate is the same as the CMP protection
certificate of that message, certificate status checking
 be performed on the CMP
protection certificates. If the response message contains the caPubs field to transfer new trust
anchor information, the CMP protection is crucial and certificate status checking is
.
REQUIRED
For other cases, it
information is not available.

 be acceptable to omit certificate status checking when respective

 be followed for

SHOULD

MAY

Depending on local policies, one or more of the input validation checks described below need to
be implemented:

•

If signature-based protection is used, the sender field
protection certificate. (failInfo bit: badMessageCheck)

MUST

 match the subject of the CMP

•

If the messageTime is present and

◦
the receiving system has a reliable system time, the messageTime
current time of the receiving system, where the threshold will vary by use case. (failInfo
bit: badTime)
◦
the receiving system does not have a reliable system time, the messageTime
for time synchronization.

 be close to the

MUST

MAY

 be used

3.6.  Error Handling

This section describes how a PKI entity handles error conditions on messages it receives. Each
error condition should be logged appropriately to allow root-cause analysis of failure cases.

3.6.1.  Reporting Error Conditions Upstream

SHALL NOT

An EE
messages in the upstream direction either.

 send error messages. PKI management entities

SHALL NOT

 send error

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

In case an EE rejects a newly issued certificate contained in an ip, cp, or kup message and
implicit confirmation has not been granted, the EE
with "rejection" status and await the pkiConf response as described in Section 4.1.1.

 report this using a certConf message

MUST

On all other error conditions regarding response messages, the EE or PKI management entity
MUST
conditions include:

 regard the current PKI management operation as terminated with failure. The error

•

invalid response message header, body type, protection, or extraCerts, according to the
checks described in Section 3.5,

•

any issue detected with response message contents,

•

receipt of an error message from upstream,

•

timeout occurred while waiting for a response, and

•

rejection of a newly issued certificate while implicit confirmation has been granted.

Upstream PKI management entities will not receive any CMP message to learn that the PKI
management operation has been terminated. In case they expect a further message from the EE,
a connection interruption or timeout will occur. The value set for such timeouts will vary by use
case. Then they
failure and

 also regard the current PKI management operation as terminated with
 attempt to send an error message downstream.

MUST NOT

MUST

3.6.2.  Reporting Error Conditions Downstream

In case the PKI management entity detects an error condition, e.g., rejecting the request due to
policy decision, in the body of an ir, cr, p10cr, kur, or rr message received from downstream, it
 report the error in the specific response message, i.e., an ip, cp, kup, or rp with "rejection"
MUST
status, as described in Sections 4.1.1 and 4.2. This can also happen in case of polling.

In case the PKI management entity detects any other error condition on requests (including
pollReq, certConf, genm, and nested messages) received from downstream and on responses
received from upstream (such as invalid message header, body type, protection, or extraCerts,
according to the checks described in Section 3.5), it
an error message as described in Section 3.6.4.

 report them downstream in the form of

MUST

3.6.3.  Handling Error Conditions on Nested Messages Used for Batching

Batching of messages using nested messages as described in Section 5.2.2.2 requires special error
handling.

If the error condition is on an upstream nested message containing batched requests, it
NOT

 attempt to respond to the individual requests included in it but to the nested message itself.

MUST

In case a PKI management entity receives an error message in response to a nested message, it
must propagate the error by responding with an error message to each of the request messages
contained in the nested message.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

In case a PKI management entity detects an error condition on the downstream nested message
received in response to a nested message sent before and the body of the received nested
message still parses, it
described in Section 5.2.2.2. Otherwise, it
message to each of the requests contained in the nested message it sent originally.

 ignore this error condition and handle the included responses as

 propagate the error by responding with an error

MUST

MAY

3.6.4.  PKIStatusInfo and Error Messages

When sending any kind of negative response, including error messages, a PKI entity
indicate the error condition in the PKIStatusInfo structure of the respective message as described
below. Then it

 regard the current PKI management operation as terminated with failure.

MUST

MUST

The PKIStatusInfo structure is used to report errors. It may be part of various message types, in
particular, ip, cp, kup, certConf, and error. The PKIStatusInfo structure consists of the following
fields:

status:

Here, the PKIStatus value "rejection"

MUST
a PKI management entity indicates delayed delivery of a CMP response message to the EE
with an error message as described in Section 4.4, the status "waiting"

 be used in case an error was detected. When

 be used there.

MUST

statusString:

Here, any human-readable valid value for logging or to display via a user interface

should be added.

failInfo:

Here, the PKIFailureInfo bits

MAY

 be used in the way explained in

Appendix F of

[RFC4210]
. PKIFailureInfo bits regarding the validation described in Section 3.5 are
referenced there. The PKIFailureInfo bits referenced in Sections 5.1 and 6 are described here:

badCertId:

A kur, certConf, or rr message references an unknown certificate.

badPOP:

An ir/cr/kur/p10cr contains an invalid proof-of-possession.

certRevoked:

Revocation is requested for a certificate that is already revoked.

badCertTemplate:

The contents of a certificate request are not accepted, e.g., a field is

missing or has an unacceptable value or the given public key is already in use in some
other certificate (depending on policy).

transactionIdInUse:

This is sent by a PKI management entity in case the received request

contains a transactionID that is currently in use for another transaction. An EE receiving
such an error message should resend the request in a new transaction using a different
transactionID.

notAuthorized:
operation.

systemUnavail:
available.

The sender of a request message is not authorized for requesting the

This is sent by a PKI management entity in case a back-end system is not

systemFailure:

This is sent by a PKI management entity in case a back-end system is

currently not functioning correctly.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

An EE receiving a systemUnavail or systemFailure failInfo should resend the request in a new
transaction after some time.

Detailed Message Description:

Error Message -- error

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
    -- The message indicating the error that occurred
  error                       REQUIRED
    pKIStatusInfo             REQUIRED
      status                  REQUIRED
    -- MUST have the value "rejection"
      statusString            OPTIONAL
    -- This field should contain any human-readable text for
    --   debugging, for logging, or to display in a GUI
      failInfo                OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be present and contain the relevant PKIFailureInfo bits

protection                    RECOMMENDED
    -- As described in Section 3.2

extraCerts                    RECOMMENDED
    -- As described in Section 3.3

Protecting the error message may not be technically feasible if it is not clear which credential the
recipient will be able to use when validating this protection, e.g., in case the request message was
fundamentally broken. In these exceptional cases, the protection of the error message
omitted.

MAY

 be

4.  PKI Management Operations

This section focuses on the communication of an EE with the PKI management entity it directly
talks to. Depending on the network and PKI solution, this can be an RA or directly a CA. Handling
of a message by a PKI management entity is described in Section 5.

The PKI management operations specified in this section cover the following:

•

requesting a certificate with variations like initial enrollment, certificate updates, central key
generation, and MAC-based protection

•

revoking a certificate

•

support messages

•

polling for delayed response messages

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

These operations mainly specify the message body of the CMP messages and utilize the
specification of the message header, protection, and extraCerts, as specified in Section 3. The
messages are named by the respective field names in PKIBody, like ir, ip, cr, cp, etc.; see
5.1.2 of [RFC4210]
.

Section

The following diagram shows the EE state machine covering all PKI management operations
described in this section, including negative responses, error messages described in Section 3.6.4,
ip/cp/kup/error messages with status "waiting", and pollReq and pollRep messages as described
in Section 4.4.

On receiving messages from upstream, the EE
described in Section 3.5. In case an error occurs, the behavior is described in Section 3.6.

 perform the general validation checks

MUST

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

End Entity State Machine:

                         start
                           |
                           | send ir/cr/kur/p10cr/rr/genm
                           v
                 waiting for response
                           v
+--------------------------+--------------------------+
|                          |                          |
| receives ip/cp/kup with  | received ip/cp/kup/error | received
| status "accepted" or     | with status "waiting"    | rp/genp or
| "grantedWithMods"        |                          | ip/cp/kup/
|                          v                          | error
|             +-------> polling                       | with status
|             |            |                          | "rejection"
|             | received   | send                     |
|             | pollRep    | pollReq                  |
|             |            v                          |
|             |   waiting for response                |
|             |            v                          |
|             +------------+--------+                 |
|                          |        |                 |
|       received ip/cp/kup |        | received        |
|   with status "accepted" |        | rp/genp or      |
|     or "grantedWithMods" |        | ip/cp/kup/error |
|                          |        | with status     |
+---------->+<-------------+        | "rejection"     |
            v                       |                 |
+-----------+-----+                 |                 |
|                 |                 |                 |
| implicitConfirm | implicitConfirm |                 |
| granted         | not granted     |                 |
|                 |                 |                 |
|                 | send certConf   |                 |
|                 v                 |                 |
|        waiting for pkiConf*)      |                 |
|                 |                 |                 |
|                 | received        |                 |
|                 v pkiConf         v                 |
+---------------->+------->+<-------+<----------------+
                           |
                           v
                          end

*)

In case of a delayed delivery of pkiConf responses, the same polling mechanism is initiated as
for rp or genp messages by sending an error message with status "waiting".

 have the same
Note: All CMP messages belonging to the same PKI management operation
transactionID because the message receiver identifies the elements of the operation in this way.

MUST

This section is aligned with
[RFC9481]
.

CMP [RFC4210] CMP Updates [RFC9480]

,

, and

CMP Algorithms

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Guidelines as well as an algorithm use profile for this document are available in
[RFC9481]
.

CMP Algorithms

4.1.  Enrolling End Entities

There are various approaches for requesting a certificate from a PKI.

These approaches differ in the way the EE authenticates itself to the PKI, in the form of the
request being used, and how the key pair to be certified is generated. The authentication
mechanisms may be as follows:

•

using a certificate from an external PKI, e.g., a manufacturer-issued device certificate, and
the corresponding private key

•

using a private key and certificate issued from the same PKI that is addressed for requesting
a certificate

•

using the certificate to be updated and the corresponding private key

•

using shared secret information known to the EE and the PKI management entity

An EE requests a certificate indirectly or directly from a CA. When the PKI management entity
handles the request as described in Section 5.1.1 and responds with a message containing the
requested certificate, the EE
granted. The PKI management entity
respond with a confirmation, closing the PKI management operation.

 reply with a confirmation message unless implicitConfirm was
 then handle it as described in Section 5.1.2 and

MUST

MUST

The message sequences described in this section allow the EE to request certification of a locally
or centrally generated public-private key pair. The public key and the subject name identifying
the EE

 be present in the certTemplate of the certificate request message.

MUST

Note: If the EE does not know for which subject name to request the certificate, it can use the
subject name from the CMP protection certificate in case of signature-based protection or the
identifier of the shared secret in case of MAC-based protection.

Typically, the EE provides a signature-based proof-of-possession of the private key associated
[RFC4211], Section 4.1
with the public key contained in the certificate request, as defined by
,
clause 3. To this end, it is assumed that the private key can technically be used for signing. This is
the case for the most common algorithms RSA, ECDSA, and EdDSA, regardless of potentially
intended restrictions of the key usage.

Section 4 of [RFC4211]

Note:
key can be used for. In conformance with Section 8.1.5.1.1.2 of
generated private key may be used for self-signature, if technically possible, even if the keyUsage
extension requested in the certificate request prohibits generation of digital signatures.

 allows for providing proof-of-possession using any method that a
, the newly

[NIST.SP.800-57p1r5]

The requesting EE provides the binding of the proof-of-possession to its identity by signature-
based or MAC-based protection of the CMP request message containing that POP. An upstream
PKI management entity should verify whether this EE is authorized to obtain a certificate with
the requested subject and other fields and extensions.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

The proof-of-possession is provided by signing the certReq containing the certTemplate with the
subject name and public key. To bind this proof-of-possession to the proof-of-identity of the
requesting EE, the subject name in the certTemplate needs to identify the same entity as the
subject name in the CMP protection certificate or match the identifier used with MAC-based
protection.

Note: This binding may be lost if a PKI management entity reprotects this request message.

MAY

The EE
field in the PKIHeader of the certificate request message as described in Section 3.1.

 indicate the certificate profile to use in the certProfile extension of the generalInfo

In case the EE receives a CA certificate in the caPubs field for installation as a new trust anchor, it
 properly authenticate the message and authorize the sender as a trusted source of the new
MUST
trust anchor. This authorization is typically indicated using shared secret information for
protecting an Initialization Response (ip) message. Authorization can also be signature-based,
using a certificate issued by another PKI that is explicitly authorized for this purpose. A
 be accepted as a trust anchor if it is the root CA
certificate received in caPubs
certificate of the certificate used for protecting the message.

MUST NOT

4.1.1.  Enrolling an End Entity to a New PKI

This PKI management operation should be used by an EE to request a certificate from a new PKI
using an existing certificate from an external PKI, e.g., a manufacturer-issued IDevID certificate
[IEEE.802.1AR_2018]

, to authenticate itself to the new PKI.

Bootstrapping Remote Secure Key Infrastructure (BRSKI) [RFC8995]

Note: In
"BRSKI-AE: Alternative Enrollment Protocols in BRSKI" [BRSKI-AE]
regarding enrollment protocols alternative to
simpleenroll, BRSKI-AE uses this PKI management operation for bootstrapping LDevID
certificates.

. As replacement of EST

EST [RFC7030]

 describes a generalization

 environments,

Specific prerequisites augmenting the prerequisites in Section 3.4 are as follows:

•

The certificate of the EE
issued device certificate.

MUST

 have been enrolled by an external PKI, e.g., a manufacturer-

•

The PKI management entity

MUST

 have the trust anchor of the external PKI.

•

When using the generalInfo field certProfile, the EE
indicate the requested certificate profile.

MUST

 know the identifier needed to

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Message Flow:

Step# EE                                  PKI management entity
  1   format ir
  2                      ->   ir      ->
  3                                        handle or
                                             forward ir
  4                                        format or receive ip
  5                                        possibly grant
                                             implicitConfirm
  6                      <-   ip      <-
  7   handle ip

-----------------  if implicitConfirm not granted  -----------------

  8   format certConf
  9                      ->   certConf ->
 10                                        handle or
                                             forward certConf
 11                                        format or receive pkiConf
 12                      <-   pkiConf  <-
 13   handle pkiConf

For this PKI management operation, the EE
MUST
If more certificates are required, further requests
operations.

 include a sequence of one CertReqMsg in the ir.
 be sent using separate PKI management
MUST

MUST

 include the generalInfo field implicitConfirm in the header of the ir message as

The EE
described in Section 3.1, unless it requires certificate confirmation. This leaves the PKI
management entities the choice of whether or not the EE must send a certConf message upon
receiving a new certificate. Depending on the PKI policy and requirements for managing EE
certificates, it can be important for PKI management entities to learn if the EE accepted the new
certificate. In such cases, when responding with an ip message, the PKI management entity
 include the implicitConfirm extension. In case the EE included the generalInfo field
NOT
implicitConfirm in the request message and the PKI management entity does not need any
explicit confirmation from the EE, the PKI management entity
implicitConfirm in the response message. This prevents explicit certificate confirmation and
saves the overhead of a further message round trip. Otherwise, the PKI management entity
SHOULD

 include confirmWaitTime as described in Section 3.1.

 include the generalInfo field

MUST

MUST

If the EE did not request implicit confirmation or implicit confirmation was not granted by the
PKI management entity, certificate confirmation
successfully received the certificate, it
valid certConf message, the PKI management entity
 handle
PKI management entity does not receive the expected certConf message in time, it
this like a rejection by the EE. In case of rejection, depending on its policy, the PKI management
entity
MAY
internally.

 send a certConf message in due time. On receiving a
 respond with a pkiConf message. If the

 revoke the newly issued certificate, notify a monitoring system, or log the event

 be performed as follows. If the EE

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Note: Depending on PKI policy, a new certificate may be published by a PKI management entity,
and explicit confirmation may be required. In this case, it is advisable not to do the publication
until a positive certificate confirmation has been received. This way, the need to revoke the
certificate on negative confirmation can be avoided.

If the certificate request was rejected by the CA, the PKI management entity
MUST
message containing the status code "rejection" as described in Section 3.6, and the
certifiedKeyPair field
certConf message, and the PKI management operation

 be omitted. The EE

 be terminated.

MUST NOT

SHALL

MUST

 react to such an ip message with a

 return an ip

Detailed Message Description:

Initialization Request -- ir

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
    -- The request of the EE for a new certificate
  ir                          REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one CertReqMsg
    -- If more certificates are required, further PKI management
    --   operations needs to be initiated
    certReq                   REQUIRED
      certReqId               REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 0
      certTemplate            REQUIRED
        version               OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be 2 if supplied
        subject               REQUIRED
    -- The EE's identity MUST be carried in the subject field
    --   and/or the subjectAltName extension.
    -- If subject name is present only in the subjectAltName
    --   extension, then the subject field MUST be NULL-DN
        publicKey             OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be present if local key generation is used
    -- MAY be absent if central key generation is requested
          algorithm           OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be present if local key generation is used and MUST
    --   include the subject public key algorithm identifier
    -- MAY be present if central key generation is requested and,
    --   if present, informs the KGA of algorithm and parameter
    --   preferences regarding the to-be-generated key pair
          subjectPublicKey    REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the public key to be certified in case of local
    --   key generation
    -- MUST be a zero-length BIT STRING if central key generation
    --   is requested
        extensions            OPTIONAL
    -- MAY include end-entity-specific X.509 extensions of the
    --   requested certificate, like subject alternative name, key
    --   usage, and extended key usage
    -- The subjectAltName extension MUST be present if the EE subject

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

    --   name includes a subject alternative name.
    popo                      OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be present if local key generation is used
    -- MUST be absent if central key generation is requested
      signature               OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be used by an EE if the key can be used for signing, and
    --   if used, it MUST have the type POPOSigningKey
        poposkInput           PROHIBITED
    -- MUST NOT be used; it is not needed because subject and
    --   publicKey are both present in the certTemplate
        algorithmIdentifier   REQUIRED
    -- The signature algorithm MUST be consistent with the publicKey
    --   algorithm field of the certTemplate
        signature             REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the signature value computed over the DER-encoded
    --   certReq
      raVerified              OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be used by an RA after verifying the proof-of-possession
    --   provided by the EE

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2

extraCerts                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.3

Initialization Response -- ip

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
    -- The response of the CA to the request as appropriate
  ip                          REQUIRED
    caPubs                    OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be used if the certifiedKeyPair field is present
    -- If used, it MUST contain only a trust anchor, e.g., root
    --   certificate, of the certificate contained in certOrEncCert
    response                  REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one CertResponse
      certReqId              REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 0
      status                  REQUIRED
    -- PKIStatusInfo structure MUST be present
        status                REQUIRED
    -- positive values allowed: "accepted", "grantedWithMods"
    -- negative values allowed: "rejection"
    -- "waiting" only allowed with a polling use case as described
    --   in Section 4.4
        statusString          OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be any human-readable text for debugging, for logging, or
    --   to display in a GUI
        failInfo              OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be present if status is "rejection"
    -- MUST be absent if status is "accepted" or "grantedWithMods"

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

      certifiedKeyPair        OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be present if status is "accepted" or "grantedWithMods"
    -- MUST be absent if status is "rejection"
        certOrEncCert         REQUIRED
    -- MUST be present if status is "accepted" or "grantedWithMods"
          certificate         REQUIRED
    -- MUST be present when certifiedKeyPair is present
    -- MUST contain the newly enrolled X.509 certificate
        privateKey            OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be absent in case of local key generation or "rejection"
    -- MUST contain the encrypted private key in an EnvelopedData
    --   structure as specified in Section 4.1.6 in case the
    --   private key was generated centrally

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2

extraCerts                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.3
    -- MUST contain the chain of the certificate present in
    --   certOrEncCert
    -- Duplicate certificates MAY be omitted

Certificate Confirmation -- certConf

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
    -- The message of the EE sends a confirmation to the PKI
    --   management entity to accept or reject the issued
    --   certificates
  certConf                    REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one CertStatus
    CertStatus                REQUIRED
      certHash                REQUIRED
    -- The hash algorithm to use MUST be the hash algorithm indicated
    --   in the below hashAlg field.  If the hashAlg field is not
    --   set, it MUST be the hash algorithm defined by the algorithm
    --   identifier of the certificate signature or the dedicated
    --   hash algorithm defined in [RFC9481] for the used certificate
    --   signature algorithm.
      certReqId               REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 0
      statusInfo              OPTIONAL
    -- PKIStatusInfo structure should be present
    -- Omission indicates acceptance of the indicated certificate
        status                REQUIRED
    -- positive values allowed: "accepted"
    -- negative values allowed: "rejection"
        statusString          OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be any human-readable text for debugging, for logging, or
    --   to display in a GUI
        failInfo              OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be present if status is "rejection"

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

    -- MUST be absent if status is "accepted"
      hashAlg                 OPTIONAL
    -- The hash algorithm to use for calculating the above certHash
    -- If used, the pvno field in the header MUST be cmp2021 (3).
    --   For backward compatibility, use of this field is
    --   NOT RECOMMENDED if the hash algorithm to use can be
    --   identified by other means; see above.

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2
    -- MUST use the same credentials as in the first request message
    --   of this PKI management operation

extraCerts                    RECOMMENDED
    -- As described in Section 3.3
    -- MAY be omitted if the message size is critical and the PKI
    --   management entity caches the CMP protection certificate from
    --   the first request message of this PKI management operation

PKI Confirmation -- pkiConf

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
  pkiconf                     REQUIRED
    -- The content of this field MUST be NULL

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2
    -- MUST use the same credentials as in the first response
    --   message of this PKI management operation

extraCerts                    RECOMMENDED
    -- As described in Section 3.3
    -- MAY be omitted if the message size is critical and the EE has
    --   cached the CMP protection certificate from the first
    --   response message of this PKI management operation

4.1.2.  Enrolling an End Entity to a Known PKI

This PKI management operation should be used by an EE to request an additional certificate of
the same PKI it already has certificates from. The EE uses one of these existing certificates to
authenticate itself by signing its request messages using the respective private key.

Specific prerequisites augmenting the prerequisites in Section 3.4 are as follows:

•

The certificate used by the EE
certificate from.

MUST

 have been enrolled by the PKI it requests another

•

When using the generalInfo field certProfile, the EE
indicate the requested certificate profile.

MUST

 know the identifier needed to

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

The message sequence for this PKI management operation is identical to that given in Section
4.1.1, with the following changes:

1.

The body of the first request and response
be used.

SHOULD

 be cr and cp. Otherwise, ir and ip

MUST

Note: Since the difference between ir/ip and cr/cp is syntactically not essential, an ir/ip may
be used in this PKI management operation.

2.

The caPubs field in the certificate response message

MUST

 be absent.

4.1.3.  Updating a Valid Certificate

This PKI management operation should be used by an EE to request an update for one of its
certificates that is still valid. The EE uses the certificate it wishes to update as the CMP protection
certificate. Both for authenticating itself and for proving ownership of the certificate to be
updated, it signs the request messages with the corresponding private key.

Specific prerequisites augmenting the prerequisites in Section 3.4 are as follows:

•

The certificate the EE wishes to update
been issued by the addressed CA.

MUST NOT

 be expired or revoked and

MUST

 have

•

A new public-private key pair should be used.

•

When using the generalInfo field certProfile, the EE
indicate the requested certificate profile.

MUST

 know the identifier needed to

The message sequence for this PKI management operation is identical to that given in Section
4.1.1, with the following changes:

1.

The body of the first request and response

MUST

 be kur and kup, respectively.

2.

Protection of the kur

MUST

 be performed using the certificate to be updated.

3.

The subject field and/or the subjectAltName extension of the certTemplate
MUST
EE subject name of the existing certificate to be updated, without modifications.

 contain the

4.

The certTemplate
SHOULD
publicKey of the EE only.

 contain the subject and/or subjectAltName extension and

5.

The oldCertId control

MAY

 be used to make clear which certificate is to be updated.

6.

The caPubs field in the kup message

MUST

 be absent.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

As part of the certReq structure of the kur, the oldCertId control is added after the certTemplate
field.

    controls
      type                    RECOMMENDED
    -- MUST be the value id-regCtrl-oldCertID, if present
      value
        issuer                REQUIRED
        serialNumber          REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the issuer and serialNumber of the certificate
    --   to be updated

4.1.4.  Enrolling an End Entity Using a PKCS #10 Request

This PKI management operation can be used by an EE to request a certificate using the
[RFC2986]
variation of the PKI management operations specified in Sections 4.1.1 to 4.1.3.

 format to interoperate with CAs not supporting

CRMF [RFC4211]

. This offers a

PKCS #10

In this PKI management operation, the public key and all further certificate template data
be contained in the subjectPKInfo and other certificationRequestInfo fields of the PKCS #10
structure.

MUST

The prerequisites are the same as given in Section 4.1.2.

The message sequence for this PKI management operation is identical to that given in Sections
4.1.1 to 4.1.3, with the following changes:

1.

The body of the first request and response

MUST

 be p10cr and cp, respectively.

2.

The certReqId in the cp message

MUST

 be -1.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Detailed Message Description:

Certification Request -- p10cr

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
    -- The request of the EE for a new certificate using a PKCS #10
    --   certificate request
  p10cr                       REQUIRED
    certificationRequestInfo  REQUIRED
      version                 REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 0 to indicate PKCS #10 v1.7
      subject                 REQUIRED
    -- The EE subject name MUST be carried in the subject field
    --   and/or the subjectAltName extension.
    -- If subject name is present only in the subjectAltName
    --   extension, then the subject field MUST be NULL-DN
      subjectPKInfo           REQUIRED
        algorithm             REQUIRED
    -- MUST include the subject public key algorithm identifier
        subjectPublicKey      REQUIRED
    -- MUST include the public key to be certified
      attributes              OPTIONAL
    -- MAY include end-entity-specific X.509 extensions of the
    --   requested certificate like subject alternative name,
    --   key usage, and extended key usage
    -- The subjectAltName extension MUST be present if the EE
    --   subject name includes a subject alternative name.
    signatureAlgorithm        REQUIRED
    -- The signature algorithm MUST be consistent with the
    --   subjectPKInfo field.
    signature                 REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the self-signature for proof-of-possession

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2

extraCerts                    REQUIRED
    -- As described for the underlying PKI management operation

4.1.5.  Using MAC-Based Protection for Enrollment

This is a variant of the PKI management operations described in Sections 4.1.1, 4.1.2, and 4.1.4. It
should be used by an EE to request a certificate of a new PKI in case it does not have a certificate
to prove its identity to the target PKI but has some secret information shared with the PKI
management entity. Therefore, the request and response messages are MAC-protected using this
shared secret information. The distribution of this shared secret is out of scope for this
document. The PKI management entity checking the MAC-based protection
protection according to Section 5.2.3, as the next hop may not know the shared secret
information.

 replace this

MUST

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Note: The entropy of the shared secret information is crucial for the level of protection when
using MAC-based protection. Further guidance is available in the security considerations updated
by

CMP Updates [RFC9480]
.

Specific prerequisites augmenting the prerequisites in Section 3.4 are as follows:

•

Rather than using private keys, certificates, and trust anchors, the EE and the PKI
management entity

 share secret information.

MUST

Note: The shared secret information
technician during initial local configuration.

MUST

 be established out of band, e.g., by a service

•

When using the generalInfo field certProfile, the EE
indicate the requested certificate profile.

MUST

 know the identifier needed to

The message sequence for this PKI management operation is identical to that given in Sections
4.1.1, 4.1.2, and 4.1.4, with the following changes:

1.

The protection of all messages
messages do not contain CMP protection certificates and associated chains.

 be MAC-based. Therefore, extraCerts fields of all

MUST

2.

MUST

 contain a name the PKI management entity can use to identify the
 be placed in the
 contain the same

The sender field
shared secret information used for message protection. This name
commonName field of the directoryName choice. The senderKID
name as in the commonName field of the sender field. In case the sending entity does not yet
know for which name to request the certificate, it can use this commonName in the subject
field of the certTemplate.

MUST

MUST

Section 6 of CMP Algorithms [RFC9481]

See
algorithms (MSG_MAC_ALG) to use. Typically, parameters are part of the protectionAlg field, e.g.,
used for key derivation, like a salt and an iteration count. Such parameters should remain
constant for message protection throughout this PKI management operation to reduce the
computational overhead.

 for details on message authentication code

4.1.6.  Adding Central Key Pair Generation to Enrollment

This is a variant of the PKI management operations described in Sections 4.1.1 to 4.1.4 and the
variant described in Section 4.1.5. It needs to be used in case an EE is not able to generate its new
public-private key pair itself or central generation of the EE key material is preferred. Which PKI
management entity will act as Key Generation Authority (KGA) and perform the key generation is
a matter of the local implementation. This PKI management entity
containing the additional extended key usage extension id-kp-cmKGA in order to be accepted by
the EE as a legitimate key generation authority.

 use a certificate

MUST

Note: As described in Section 5.3.1, the KGA can use the PKI management operation described in
Section 4.1.2 to request the certificate for this key pair on behalf of the EE.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

When an EE requests central key generation for a certificate update using a kur message, the
KGA cannot use a kur message to request the certificate on behalf of the EE, as the old EE
credential is not available to the KGA for protecting this message. Therefore, if the EE uses the
PKI management operation described in Section 4.1.3, the KGA
 act as described in Section
4.1.2 to request the certificate for the newly generated key pair on behalf of the EE from the CA.

MUST

Generally speaking, it is strongly preferable to generate public-private key pairs locally at the EE.
This is advisable to make sure that the entity identified in the newly issued certificate is the only
entity that knows the private key.

Reasons for central key generation may include the following:

•

lack of sufficient initial entropy

Note: Good random numbers are not only needed for key generation but also for session
keys and nonces in any security protocol. Therefore, a decent security architecture should
anyways support good random number generation on the EE side or provide enough initial
entropy for the random number generator seed to guarantee good pseudorandom number
generation. Yet maybe this is not the case at the time of requesting an initial certificate
during manufacturing.

•

lack of computational resources, in particular, for RSA key generation

Note: Since key generation could be performed in advance to the certificate enrollment
communication, it is often not time critical.

Note: As mentioned in Section 2, central key generation may be required in a push model, where
the certificate response message is transferred by the PKI management entity to the EE without a
previous request message.

The EE requesting central key generation
or, in case it has a preference on the key type to be generated, provide this preference in the
algorithm sub-field and fill the subjectPublicKey sub-field with a zero-length BIT STRING. Both
variants indicate to the PKI management entity that a new key pair shall be generated centrally
on behalf of the EE.

 omit the publicKey field from the certTemplate

MUST

Section 2.7 of CMP Updates [RFC9480]

Note: As the protection of centrally generated keys in the response message has been extended to
EncryptedKey by
alternative to EncryptedValue. In
has been deprecated in favor of the EnvelopedData structure. Therefore, this profile requires
using EnvelopedData, as specified in
used in a PKI management operation, CMP v3
for the initial request message; see

. When EnvelopedData is to be
 be indicated in the message header already
Section 2.20 of CMP Updates [RFC9480]
.

, point 9, the use of EncryptedValue

, EnvelopedData is the preferred

CRMF [RFC4211], Section 2.1

Section 6 of CMS [RFC5652]

MUST

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

+----------------------------------+
| EnvelopedData                    |
| [RFC5652], Section 6             |
| +------------------------------+ |
| | SignedData                   | |
| | [RFC5652], Section 5         | |
| | +--------------------------+ | |
| | | AsymmetricKeyPackage     | | |
| | | [RFC5958]                | | |
| | | +----------------------+ | | |
| | | | private key          | | | |
| | | +----------------------+ | | |
| | +--------------------------+ | |
| +------------------------------+ |
+----------------------------------+

Figure 3: Encrypted Private Key Container

The PKI management entity delivers the private key in the privateKey field in the
certifiedKeyPair structure of the response message also containing the newly issued certificate.

The private key
[RFC5958]
.

MUST

 be provided as an AsymmetricKeyPackage structure as defined in

 and

MUST

MUST
[RFC8933]

Section 5 of CMS [RFC5652]

 be wrapped in a SignedData structure, as specified
, and signed by the KGA generating the key pair. The

This AsymmetricKeyPackage structure
in
 be performed using a private key related to a certificate asserting the extended
signature
key usage id-kp-cmKGA, as described in
, to demonstrate
authorization to generate key pairs on behalf of an EE. For response messages using signature-
based protection, the EE
structure and
usage in the signer certificate. For response messages using MAC-based protection, the EE
omit the validation as it may not be possible or meaningful to the EE. In this case, the EE
authorizes the KGA using the shard secret information.

 authorize the KGA considering any given id-kp-cmKGA extended key

 validate the signer certificate contained in the SignedData

Section 2.2 of CMP Updates [RFC9480]

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

The SignedData structure
Section 6 of CMS [RFC5652]
key.

MUST

 be wrapped in an EnvelopedData structure, as specified in
, encrypting it using a newly generated symmetric content-encryption

MUST

 be securely provided as part of the EnvelopedData structure to

This content-encryption key
the EE using one of three key management techniques. The choice of the key management
technique to be used by the PKI management entity depends on the authentication mechanism
the EE chose to protect the request message. See
on which key management technique to use.

Section 2.7 of CMP Updates [RFC9480]

 for details

•

Signature-based protection of the request message:

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

In this case, the choice depends on the type of public key in the CMP protection certificate
used by the EE in its request.

◦
The content-encryption key
technique (see Section 4.1.6.1) if the key type supports this.
◦
The content-encryption key
technique (see Section 4.1.6.2) if the key type supports this.

SHALL

SHALL

 be protected using the key transport key management

 be protected using the key agreement key management

•

MAC-based protection of the request message:

◦
The content-encryption key
management technique (see Section 4.1.6.3) if and only if the EE used MAC-based
protection for the request message.

 be protected using the password-based key

SHALL

Specific prerequisites augmenting those of the respective certificate enrollment PKI management
operations are as follows:

•

If signature-based protection is used, the EE
KGA using suitable information, which includes a trust anchor.

MUST

 be able to authenticate and authorize the

•

If MAC-based protection is used, the KGA
 also know the shared secret information to
MUST
protect the encrypted transport of the newly generated key pair. Consequently, the EE can
also authorize the KGA.

•

The PKI management entity
usage extension id-kp-cmKGA for signing the SignedData structure containing the private
key package.

 have a certificate containing the additional extended key

MUST

•

For encrypting the SignedData structure, a fresh content-encryption key to be used by the
symmetric encryption algorithm

 be generated with sufficient entropy.

MUST

Note: The security strength of the protection of the generated private key should be similar
or higher than the security strength of the generated private key.

Detailed Description of the privateKey Field:

        privateKey            REQUIRED
    -- MUST be an EnvelopedData structure, as specified in
    --   Section 6 of CMS [RFC5652]
          version             REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 2 for recipientInfo type KeyAgreeRecipientInfo and
    --   KeyTransRecipientInfo
    -- MUST be 0 for recipientInfo type PasswordRecipientInfo
          recipientInfos      REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one RecipientInfo, which MUST be
    --   ktri of type KeyTransRecipientInfo (see Section 4.1.6.1),
    --   kari of type KeyAgreeRecipientInfo (see Section 4.1.6.2), or
    --   pwri of type PasswordRecipientInfo (see Section 4.1.6.3)
          encryptedContentInfo
                              REQUIRED
            contentType       REQUIRED
    -- MUST be id-signedData
            contentEncryptionAlgorithm
                              REQUIRED

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

    -- MUST be the algorithm identifier of the algorithm used for
    --   content encryption
    -- The algorithm type MUST be PROT_SYM_ALG as specified in
    --   [RFC9481], Section 5
            encryptedContent  REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the SignedData structure, as specified in Section 5
    -- of CMS [RFC5652] and [RFC8933], in encrypted form
              version         REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 3
              digestAlgorithms
                              REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one AlgorithmIdentifier element
    -- MUST be the algorithm identifier of the digest algorithm
    --   used for generating the signature and match the signature
    --   algorithm specified in signatureAlgorithm; see [RFC8933]
              encapContentInfo
                              REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the content that is to be signed
                eContentType  REQUIRED
    -- MUST be id-ct-KP-aKeyPackage as specified in [RFC5958]
                eContent      REQUIRED
    -- MUST be of type AsymmetricKeyPackage and
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one OneAsymmetricKey element
                  version     REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 1 (indicating v2)
                  privateKeyAlgorithm
                              REQUIRED
    -- The privateKeyAlgorithm field MUST contain the algorithm
    --   identifier of the asymmetric key pair algorithm
                  privateKey  REQUIRED
                  publicKey   REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the public key corresponding to the private key
    --   for simplicity and consistency with v2 of OneAsymmetricKey
              certificates    REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the certificate for the private key used to sign
    --   the signedData content, together with its chain
    -- The first certificate in this field MUST be the KGA
    --   certificate used for protecting this content
    -- Self-signed certificates should not be included and MUST NOT
    --   be trusted based on their inclusion in any case
                signerInfos   REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one SignerInfo element
                version       REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 3
                sid           REQUIRED
                  subjectKeyIdentifier
                              REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the subjectKeyIdentifier of the KGA certificate
                digestAlgorithm
                              REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the same as in the digestAlgorithms field of
    --   encryptedContent
                signedAttrs   REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain an id-contentType attribute containing the value
    --   id-ct-KP-aKeyPackage
    -- MUST contain an id-messageDigest attribute containing the
    --   message digest of eContent
    -- MAY contain an id-signingTime attribute containing the time

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

    --   of a signature.  It SHOULD be omitted if the transactionTime
    --   field is not present in the PKIHeader.
    -- For details on the signed attributes, see Sections 5.3 and
    --   11 of CMS [RFC5652] and [RFC8933]
                signatureAlgorithm
                              REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the algorithm identifier of the signature algorithm
    --   used for calculation of the signature bits
    -- The signature algorithm type MUST be MSG_SIG_ALG, as
    --   specified in [RFC9481], Section 3, and MUST be consistent
    --   with the subjectPublicKeyInfo field of the KGA certificate
                signature     REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the digital signature of the encapContentInfo

As stated in Section 1.8, all fields of the ASN.1 syntax that are defined in
explicitly specified here

SHOULD NOT

 be used.

[RFC5652]

 but are not

4.1.6.1.  Using the Key Transport Key Management Technique

This variant can be applied in combination with the PKI management operations specified in
Sections 4.1.1 to 4.1.3 using signature-based protection of CMP messages. The EE certificate used
for the signature-based protection of the request message
 contain a public key supporting
key transport and allow for the key usage "keyEncipherment". The related key pair
MUST
for encipherment of the content-encryption key. For this key management technique, the
KeyTransRecipientInfo structure

 be used in the contentInfo field.

MUST

MUST

 be used

The KeyTransRecipientInfo structure included into the EnvelopedData structure is specified in
Section 6.2.1 of CMS [RFC5652]
.

Detailed Description of the KeyTransRecipientInfo Structure:

            ktri              REQUIRED
    -- MUST be KeyTransRecipientInfo as specified in Section 6.2.1
    --   of CMS [RFC5652]
              version         REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 2
              rid             REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the subjectKeyIdentifier of the CMP protection
    --   certificate, if available, in the rKeyId choice, and the
    --   subjectKeyIdentifier MUST equal the senderKID in the
    --   PKIHeader.
    -- If the CMP protection certificate does not contain a
    --   subjectKeyIdentifier, the issuerAndSerialNumber choice MUST
    --   be used.
              keyEncryptionAlgorithm
                              REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the algorithm identifier of the key transport
    --   algorithm.  The algorithm type MUST be KM_KT_ALG as
    --   specified in [RFC9481], Section 4.2
              encryptedKey    REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the encrypted content-encryption key

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

4.1.6.2.  Using the Key Agreement Key Management Technique

This variant can be applied in combination with the PKI management operations specified in
Sections 4.1.1 to 4.1.3, using signature-based protection of CMP messages. The EE certificate used
 contain a public key supporting
for the signature-based protection of the request message
key agreement and allow for the key usage "keyAgreement". The related key pair
 be used
for establishment of the content-encryption key. For this key management technique, the
KeyAgreeRecipientInfo structure

 be used in the contentInfo field.

MUST

MUST

MUST

The KeyAgreeRecipientInfo structure included into the EnvelopedData structure is specified in
Section 6.2.2 of CMS [RFC5652]
.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Detailed Description of the KeyAgreeRecipientInfo Structure:

            kari              REQUIRED
    -- MUST be KeyAgreeRecipientInfo as specified in Section
    --   6.2.2 of CMS [RFC5652]
              version         REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 3
              originator      REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the subjectKeyIdentifier of the CMP protection
    --   certificate, if available, in the subjectKeyIdentifier
    --   choice, and the subjectKeyIdentifier MUST equal the
    --   senderKID in the PKIHeader.
    -- If the CMP protection certificate does not contain a
    --   subjectKeyIdentifier, the issuerAndSerialNumber choice MUST
    --   be used.
              ukm             RECOMMENDED
    -- MUST be used when 1-Pass Elliptic Curve Menezes-Qu-Vanstone
    --   (ECMQV) is used; see [RFC5753]
    -- SHOULD be present to ensure uniqueness of the key
    --   encryption key
              keyEncryptionAlgorithm
                              REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the algorithm identifier of the key agreement
    --   algorithm
    -- The algorithm type MUST be KM_KA_ALG as specified in
    --   [RFC9481], Section 4.1
    -- The parameters field of the key agreement algorithm MUST
    --   contain the key wrap algorithm.  The algorithm type
    --   MUST be KM_KW_ALG as specified in [RFC9481], Section 4.3
              recipientEncryptedKeys
                              REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one RecipientEncryptedKey
                rid           REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the subjectKeyIdentifier of the CMP protection
    --   certificate, if available, in the rKeyId choice, and the
    --   subjectKeyIdentifier MUST equal the senderKID in the
    --   PKIHeader.
    -- If the CMP protection certificate does not contain a
    --   subjectKeyIdentifier, the issuerAndSerialNumber choice MUST
    --   be used
                  encryptedKey
                              REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the encrypted content-encryption key

4.1.6.3.  Using the Password-Based Key Management Technique

This variant can be applied in combination with the PKI management operation specified in
Section 4.1.5, using MAC-based protection of CMP messages. The shared secret information used
for the MAC-based protection
but with a different salt value applied in the key derivation algorithm. For this key management
technique, the PasswordRecipientInfo structure

 also be used for the encryption of the content-encryption key

 be used in the contentInfo field.

MUST

MUST

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Note: The entropy of the shared secret information is crucial for the level of protection when
using a password-based key management technique. For centrally generated key pairs, the
entropy of the shared secret information
centrally generated key pair. Further guidance is available in Section 9.

 be less than the security strength of the

SHALL NOT

The PasswordRecipientInfo structure included into the EnvelopedData structure is specified in
Section 6.2.4 of CMS [RFC5652]
.

Detailed Description of the PasswordRecipientInfo Structure:

            pwri              REQUIRED
    -- MUST be PasswordRecipientInfo as specified in
    --   Section 6.2.4 of CMS [RFC5652]
              version         REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 0
              keyDerivationAlgorithm
                              REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the algorithm identifier of the key derivation
    --   algorithm
    -- The algorithm type MUST be KM_KD_ALG as specified in
    --   [RFC9481], Section 4.4
              keyEncryptionAlgorithm
                              REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the algorithm identifier of the key wrap algorithm
    -- The algorithm type MUST be KM_KW_ALG as specified in
    --   [RFC9481], Section 4.3
              encryptedKey    REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the encrypted content-encryption key

4.2.  Revoking a Certificate

This PKI management operation should be used by an entity to request revocation of a
certificate. Here, the revocation request is used by an EE to revoke one of its own certificates.

MUST

The revocation request message
prove the authorization to revoke. The revocation request message is signature-protected using
this certificate. This requires that the EE still possesses the private key. If this is not the case, the
revocation has to be initiated by other means, e.g., revocation by the RA, as specified in Section
5.3.2.

 be signed using the certificate that is to be revoked to

An EE requests revoking a certificate of its own at the CA that issued this certificate. The PKI
management entity handles the request as described in Section 5.1.3, and responds with a
message that contains the status of the revocation from the CA.

The specific prerequisite augmenting the prerequisites in Section 3.4 is as follows:

•

The certificate the EE wishes to revoke is not yet expired or revoked.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Message Flow:

Step# EE                                  PKI management entity
 1   format rr
 2                      ->   rr      ->
 3                                        handle or forward rr
 4                                        format or receive rp
 5                      <-   rp      <-
 6   handle rp

For this PKI management operation, the EE
in the rr message body. In the case no generic error occurred, the response to the rr
rp message containing a single status field.

 include a sequence of one RevDetails structure
 be an

MUST

MUST

Detailed Message Description:

Revocation Request -- rr

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
    -- The request of the EE to revoke its certificate
  rr                          REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one element of type RevDetails
    -- If more revocations are desired, further PKI management
    --   operations need to be initiated
    certDetails               REQUIRED
    -- MUST be present and is of type CertTemplate
      serialNumber            REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the certificate serialNumber attribute of the
    --   certificate to be revoked
      issuer                  REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the issuer attribute of the certificate to be
    --   revoked
    crlEntryDetails           REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one reasonCode of type CRLReason
    --   (see [RFC5280], Section 5.3.1)
    -- If the reason for this revocation is not known or shall not
    --   be published, the reasonCode MUST be 0 (unspecified)
protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2 and using the private key related
    --   to the certificate to be revoked

extraCerts                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.3

Revocation Response -- rp

Field                         Value

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
    -- The response of the PKI management entity to the request as
    --   appropriate
  rp                          REQUIRED
    status                    REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one element of type PKIStatusInfo
      status                  REQUIRED
    -- positive value allowed: "accepted"
    -- negative value allowed: "rejection"
      statusString            OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be any human-readable text for debugging, for logging, or
    --   to display in a GUI
      failInfo                OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be present if the status is "rejection"
    -- MUST be absent if the status is "accepted"

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2

extraCerts                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.3

4.3.  Support Messages

The following support messages offer on-demand, in-band delivery of content relevant to the EE
provided by a PKI management entity. CMP general messages and general response are used for
this purpose. Depending on the environment, these requests may be answered by an RA or CA
(see also Section 5.1.4).

The general messages and general response messages contain InfoTypeAndValue structures. In
addition to those infoType values defined in
MAY
messages as needed in specific environments.

 be used to define new PKI management operations or new general-purpose support

CMP Updates [RFC9480]

[RFC4210]

 and

, further OIDs

The following contents are specified in this document:

•

Get CA certificates.

•

Get root CA certificate update.

•

Get certificate request template.

•

Get new Certificate Revocation Lists (CRLs).

The following message flow and contents are common to all general message (genm) and general
response (genp) messages.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Message Flow:

Step# EE                                   PKI management entity
 1   format genm
 2                      ->   genm    ->
 3                                        handle or forward genm
 4                                        format or receive genp
 5                      <-   genp    <-
 6   handle genp

Detailed Message Description:

General Message -- genm

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
    -- A request by the EE for information
  genm                        REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one element of type
    --   InfoTypeAndValue
    infoType                  REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the OID identifying one of the specific PKI
    --   management operations described below
    infoValue                 OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be as specified for the specific PKI management operation

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2

extraCerts                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.3

General Response -- genp

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
    -- The response of the PKI management entity providing
    --   information
  genp                        REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one element of type
    --   InfoTypeAndValue
    infoType                  REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the OID identifying the specific PKI management
    --   operation described below
    infoValue                 OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be as specified for the specific PKI management operation

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2

extraCerts                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.3

4.3.1.  Get CA Certificates

This PKI management operation can be used by an EE to request CA certificates from the PKI
management entity.

An EE requests CA certificates, e.g., for chain construction, from a PKI management entity by
Section 2.14 of CMP Updates
sending a general message with OID id-it-caCerts, as specified in
[RFC9480]
. The PKI management entity responds with a general response with the same OID that
either contains a SEQUENCE of certificates populated with the available intermediate and issuing
CA certificates or no content in case no CA certificate is available.

No specific prerequisites apply in addition to those specified in Section 3.4.

The message sequence for this PKI management operation is as given above, with the following
specific content:

1.

the infoType OID to use is id-it-caCerts

2.

the infoValue of the request

MUST

 be absent

3.

if present, the infoValue of the response

MUST

 contain a sequence of certificates

Detailed Description of the infoValue Field of genp:

      infoValue               OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be absent if no CA certificate is available
    -- MUST be present if CA certificates are available
    --   if present, MUST be a sequence of CMPCertificate

4.3.2.  Get Root CA Certificate Update

This PKI management operation can be used by an EE to request an updated root CA certificate
as described in

Section 4.4 of [RFC4210]
.

An EE requests an update of a root CA certificate from the PKI management entity by sending a
general message with OID id-it-rootCaCert. If needed for unique identification, the EE
include the old root CA certificate in the message body as specified in
Updates [RFC9480]
rootCaKeyUpdate that either contains the update of the root CA certificate consisting of up to
three certificates or no content in case no update is available.

. The PKI management entity responds with a general response with OID id-it-

Section 2.15 of CMP

MUST

Note: This mechanism may also be used to update trusted non-root certificates, e.g., directly
trusted intermediate or issuing CA certificates.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

The newWithNew certificate is the new root CA certificate and is
available. The newWithOld certificate is
because it is needed for the receiving entity trusting the old root CA certificate to gain trust in the
new root CA certificate. The oldWithNew certificate is
 because it is only needed in rare
scenarios where other entities may not already trust the old root CA.

REQUIRED
 to be present in the response message

 to be present if

OPTIONAL

REQUIRED

No specific prerequisites apply in addition to those specified in Section 3.4.

The message sequence for this PKI management operation is as given above, with the following
specific content:

1.

the infoType OID to use is id-it-rootCaCert in the request and id-it-rootCaKeyUpdate in the
response

2.

the infoValue of the request
for

SHOULD

 contain the root CA certificate the update is requested

3.

if present, the infoValue of the response

MUST

 be a RootCaKeyUpdateContent structure

Detailed Description of the infoValue Field of genm:

      infoValue               RECOMMENDED
    -- MUST contain the root CA certificate to be updated if needed
    --   for unique identification

Detailed Description of the infoValue Field of genp:

      infoValue               OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be absent if no update of the root CA certificate is
    --   available
    -- MUST be present if an update of the root CA certificate
    --   is available and MUST be of type RootCaKeyUpdateContent
        newWithNew            REQUIRED
    -- MUST be present if infoValue is present
    -- MUST contain the new root CA certificate
        newWithOld            REQUIRED
    -- MUST be present if infoValue is present
    -- MUST contain a certificate containing the new public
    --   root CA key signed with the old private root CA key
        oldWithNew            OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be present if infoValue is present
    -- MUST contain a certificate containing the old public
    --   root CA key signed with the new private root CA key

4.3.3.  Get Certificate Request Template

This PKI management operation can be used by an EE to request a template with parameters for
future certificate requests.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

MAY

. The EE

 indicate the certificate profile to use in the id-it-certProfile extension of

An EE requests certificate request parameters from the PKI management entity by sending a
general message with OID id-it-certReqTemplate as specified in
Section 2.16 of CMP Updates
[RFC9480]
the generalInfo field in the PKIHeader of the general message as described in Section 3.1. The PKI
management entity responds with a general response with the same OID that either contains
requirements on the certificate request template or no content in case no specific requirements
are imposed by the PKI. The CertReqTemplateValue contains requirements on certificate fields
and extensions in a certTemplate. Optionally, it contains a keySpec field containing requirements
on algorithms acceptable for key pair generation.

SHOULD

 follow the requirements from the received CertTemplate by including in the

The EE
certificate requests all the fields requested, taking over all the field values provided and filling in
any remaining fields values. The EE
extensions or their (sub)components. If deviating from the recommendations of the template, the
certificate request might be rejected.

 add further fields, name components, and

SHOULD NOT

MUST

" or "

MUST NOT

Note: We deliberately do not use "
case the rules given here are not sufficient for specific scenarios. The EE can populate the
certificate request as wanted and ignore any of the requirements contained in the
CertReqTemplateValue. On the other hand, a PKI management entity is free to ignore or replace
any parts of the content of the certificate request provided by the EE. The CertReqTemplate PKI
management operation offers means to ease a joint understanding of which fields and/or which
field values should be used. An example is provided in Appendix A.

" here in order to allow more flexibility in

In case a field of type Name, e.g., subject, is present in the CertTemplate but has the value NULL-
DN (i.e., has an empty list of relative distinguished name (RDN) components), the field
be included in the certificate request and filled with content provided by the EE. Similarly, in
case an X.509v3 extension is present but its extnValue is empty, this means that the extension
SHOULD
instance, a common name or serial number, is given but has an empty string value, the EE
SHOULD
SubjectAltName field) with empty values, the EE

 fill in a value. Similarly, in case an extension has subcomponents (e.g., an IP address in a
SHOULD

 be included and filled with content provided by the EE. In case a Name component, for

 fill in a value.

SHOULD

MUST

The EE
not understand or does not know suitable values to fill in.

 ignore (i.e., not include) empty fields, extensions, and subcomponents that it does

The publicKey field of type SubjectPublicKeyInfo in the CertTemplate of the
CertReqTemplateValue
stipulation on algorithms the EE may use for key generation, this
keySpec field as specified in

MUST
Section 2.16 of CMP Updates [RFC9480]
.

 be omitted. In case the PKI management entity wishes to make a
 be specified using the

MUST

The keySpec field, if present, specifies the public key types optionally with parameters and/or
RSA key lengths for which a certificate may be requested.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

The value of a keySpec element with the OID id-regCtrl-algId, as specified in
Updates [RFC9480] MUST
For Elliptic Curve (EC) keys, the curve information
respective standard documents.

Section 2.16 of CMP
 be of type AlgorithmIdentifier and give an algorithm other than RSA.

 be specified as described in the

MUST

,

The value of a keySpec element with the OID id-regCtrl-rsaKeyLen, as specified in
CMP Updates [RFC9480] MUST

 be a positive integer value and give an RSA key length.

,

Section 2.16 of

In the CertTemplate of the CertReqTemplateValue, the serialNumber, signingAlg, issuerUID, and
subjectUID fields

 be omitted.

MUST

The specific prerequisites augmenting the prerequisites in Section 3.4 is as follows:

•

When using the generalInfo field certProfile, the EE
indicate the requested certificate profile.

MUST

 know the identifier needed to

The message sequence for this PKI management operation is as given above, with the following
specific content:

1.

the infoType OID to use is id-it-certReqTemplate

2.

the id-it-certProfile generalInfo field in the header of the request
the requested certificate request template

MAY

 contain the name of

3.

the infoValue of the request

MUST

 be absent

4.

if present, the infoValue of the response
CertTemplate structure and an optional keySpec field

MUST

 be a CertReqTemplateValue containing a

Detailed Description of the infoValue Field of genp:

      InfoValue               OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be absent if no requirements are available
    -- MUST be present if the PKI management entity has any
    --   requirements on the contents of the certificate template
        certTemplate          REQUIRED
    -- MUST be present if infoValue is present
    -- MUST contain the required CertTemplate structure elements
    -- The SubjectPublicKeyInfo field MUST be absent
        keySpec               OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be absent if no requirements on the public key are
    --   available
    -- MUST be present if the PKI management entity has any
    --   requirements on the keys generated
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one AttributeTypeAndValue per
    --   supported algorithm with attribute id-regCtrl-algId or
    --   id-regCtrl-rsaKeyLen

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

4.3.4.  CRL Update Retrieval

This PKI management operation can be used by an EE to request a new CRL. If a CA offers
methods to access a CRL, it may include CRL distribution points or authority information access
extensions into the issued certificates as specified in
provisioning functionality as part of the PKI management operation.

. In addition, CMP offers CRL

[RFC5280]

An EE requests a CRL update from the PKI management entity by sending a general message
with OID id-it-crlStatusList. The EE
and, if available, the thisUpdate time of the most current CRL instance it already has, as specified
in
general response with OID id-it-crls.

 include the CRL source identifying the requested CRL

Section 2.17 of CMP Updates [RFC9480]

. The PKI management entity

 respond with a

MUST

MUST

The EE

MUST

 identify the requested CRL either by a CRL distribution point name or issuer name.

Note: CRL distribution point names can be obtained from a cRLDistributionPoints extension of a
certificate to be validated or from an issuingDistributionPoint extension of the CRL to be
updated. CRL issuer names can be obtained from the cRLDistributionPoints extension of a
certificate, from the issuer field of the authority key identifier extension of a certificate or CRL,
and from the issuer field of a certificate or CRL.

If a thisUpdate value was given, the PKI management entity
from the referenced source if this CRL is more recent than the given thisUpdate time. If no
thisUpdate value was given, it
In all other cases, the infoValue in the response message

 return the latest CRL available from the referenced source.

 return the latest CRL available

 be absent.

MUST

MUST

MUST

The PKI management entity should treat a CRL distribution point name as an internal pointer to
identify a CRL that is directly available at the PKI management entity. It is not intended as a way
to fetch an arbitrary CRL from an external location, as this location may be unavailable to that
PKI management entity.

In addition to the prerequisites specified in Section 3.4, the EE

MUST

 know which CRL to request.

Note: If the EE does not want to request a specific CRL, it
OID id-it-currentCrl as specified in

Section 5.3.19.6 of [RFC4210]
.

MAY

 instead use a general message with

The message sequence for this PKI management operation is as given above, with the following
specific content:

1.

the infoType OID to use is id-it-crlStatusList in the request and id-it-crls in the response

2.

the infoValue of the request
structure

MUST

 be present and contain a sequence of one CRLStatus

3.

if present, the infoValue of the response

MUST

 contain a sequence of one CRL

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Detailed Description of the infoValue Field of genm:

      infoValue               REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one CRLStatus element
        source                REQUIRED
    -- MUST contain the dpn choice of type DistributionPointName if
    --   the CRL distribution point name is available
    -- Otherwise, MUST contain the issuer choice identifying the CA
    --   that issues the CRL.  It MUST contain the issuer DN in the
    --   directoryName field of a GeneralName element.
        thisUpdate            OPTIONAL
    -- MUST contain the thisUpdate field of the latest CRL the EE
    --   has gotten from the issuer specified in the given dpn or
    --   issuer field
    -- MUST be omitted if the EE does not have any instance of the
    --   requested CRL

Detailed Description of the infoValue Field of genp:

      infoValue               OPTIONAL
    -- MUST be absent if no CRL to be returned is available
    -- MUST contain a sequence of one CRL update from the referenced
    --   source if a thisUpdate value was not given or a more recent
    --   CRL is available

4.4.  Handling Delayed Delivery

This is a variant of all PKI management operations described in this document. It is initiated in
case a PKI management entity cannot respond to a request message in a timely manner, typically
due to offline or asynchronous upstream communication or due to delays in handling the
request. The polling mechanism has been specified in
[RFC9480]
.

Section 5.3.22 of [RFC4210]

 and updated by

Depending on the PKI architecture, the entity initiating delayed delivery is not necessarily the
PKI management entity directly addressed by the EE.

When initiating delayed delivery of a message received from an EE, the PKI management entity
 respond with a message including the status "waiting". In response to an ir/cr/kur/p10cr
MUST
message, it must place the status "waiting" in an ip/cp/kup message and for responses to other
request message types in an error message. On receiving this response, the EE
transaction context the senderNonce of the preceding request message because this value will be
needed for checking the recipNonce of the final response to be received after polling. It sends a
poll request with certReqId 0 if referring to the CertResponse element contained in the ip/cp/kup
message, else -1 to refer to the whole message. In case the final response is not yet available, the
PKI management entity that initiated the delayed delivery
with the same certReqId. The included checkAfter time value indicates the minimum number of
seconds that should elapse before the EE sends a new pollReq message to the PKI management

 answer with a poll response

 store in its

MUST

MUST

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

entity. Polling earlier than indicated by the checkAfter value may increase the number of
message round trips. This is repeated until a final response is available or any party involved
gives up on the current PKI management operation, i.e., a timeout occurs.

When the PKI management entity that initiated delayed delivery can provide the final response
for the original request message of the EE, it
MUST
response, the EE can continue the current PKI management operation as usual.

 send this response to the EE. Using this

No specific prerequisites apply in addition to those of the respective PKI management operation.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Message Flow:

Step# EE                                  PKI management entity
 1   format request
       message
 2                  ->     request     ->
 3                                        handle or forward
                                            request
 4                                        format ip/cp/kup/error
                                            with status "waiting"
                                            response in case no
                                            immediate final response
                                            is available
 5                   <- ip/cp/kup/error <-
 6   handle
       ip/cp/kup/error
       with status
       "waiting"

--------------------------  start polling  --------------------------

 7   format pollReq
 8                     ->    pollReq   ->
 9                                        handle or forward pollReq
10                                        in case the final response
                                            for the original request
                                            is available, continue
                                            with step 14
                                          otherwise, format or
                                            receive pollRep with
                                            checkAfter value
11                     <-    pollRep   <-
12   handle pollRep
13   let checkAfter
       time elapse and
       continue with
       step 7

-----------------  end polling, continue as usual  ------------------

14                                        format or receive
                                            final response on
                                            the original request
15                     <-   response   <-
16   handle final
       response

Detailed Message Description:

Response with Status "waiting" -- ip/cp/kup/error

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

body
    -- As described for the respective PKI management operation, with
    --   the following adaptations:
      status                  REQUIRED -- in case of ip/cp/kup
      pKIStatusInfo           REQUIRED -- in case of error response
    -- PKIStatusInfo structure MUST be present
        status                REQUIRED
    -- MUST be status "waiting"
        statusString          OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be any human-readable text for debugging, for logging, or
    --   to display in a GUI
        failInfo              PROHIBITED

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2

extraCerts                    OPTIONAL
    -- As described in Section 3.3

Polling Request -- pollReq

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
    -- The message of the EE asking for the final response or for a
    --   time to check again
  pollReq                     REQUIRED
    certReqId                 REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 0 if referring to a CertResponse element, else -1

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2
    -- MUST use the same credentials as in the first request message
    --   of the PKI management operation

extraCerts                    RECOMMENDED
    -- As described in Section 3.3
    -- MAY be omitted if the message size is critical and the PKI
    --   management entity caches the CMP protection certificate from
    --   the first request message of the PKI management operation

Polling Response -- pollRep

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
    -- The message indicates the delay after which the EE SHOULD
    --   send another pollReq message for this transaction
  pollRep                     REQUIRED

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

    certReqId                 REQUIRED
    -- MUST be 0 if referring to a CertResponse element, else -1
    checkAfter                REQUIRED
    -- MUST be the time in seconds to elapse before a new pollReq
    --   should be sent
    reason                    OPTIONAL
    -- MAY be any human-readable text for debugging, for logging, or
    --   to display in a GUI

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2
    -- MUST use the same credentials as in the first response
    --   message of the PKI management operation

extraCerts                    RECOMMENDED
    -- As described in Section 3.3
    -- MAY be omitted if the message size is critical and the EE has
    --   cached the CMP protection certificate from the first
    --   response message of the PKI management operation

Final Response - Any Type of Response Message

Field                         Value

header
    -- MUST be the header, as described for the response message
    --   of the respective PKI management operation

body
    -- The response of the PKI management entity to the initial
    --   request, as described in the respective PKI management
    --   operation

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- MUST be as described for the response message of the
    --   respective PKI management operation

extraCerts                    REQUIRED
    -- MUST be as described for the response message of the
    --   respective PKI management operation

5.  PKI Management Entity Operations

This section focuses on request processing by a PKI management entity. Depending on the
network and PKI solution design, this can be an RA or CA, any of which may include protocol
conversion or central key generation (i.e., acting as a KGA).

A PKI management entity may directly respond to request messages from downstream and
report errors. In case the PKI management entity is an RA, it typically forwards the received
request messages upstream after checking them and forwards respective response messages
downstream. Besides responding to messages or forwarding them, a PKI management entity may

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

request or revoke certificates on behalf of EEs. A PKI management entity may also need to
manage its own certificates and thus act as an EE using the PKI management operations specified
in Section 4.

5.1.  Responding to Requests

The PKI management entity terminating the PKI management operation at CMP level
respond to all received requests by returning a related CMP response message or an error. Any
intermediate PKI management entity
policy.

 respond, depending on the PKI configuration and

MUST

MAY

In addition to the checks described in Section 3.5, the responding PKI management entity
check that a request that initiates a new PKI management operation does not use a transactionID
that is currently in use. The failInfo bit value to use is transactionIdInUse as described in Section
3.6.4. If any of these verification steps or any of the essential checks described in Section 3.5 and
in the following subsections fails, the PKI management entity
Section 3.6.

 proceed as described in

MUST

MUST

The responding PKI management entity
field of the response,
response, and

MUST

MUST

 use the same transactionID for the response.

 copy the senderNonce of the request to the recipNonce of the

MUST

 copy the sender field of the request to the recipient

5.1.1.  Responding to a Certificate Request

An ir/cr/kur/p10cr message is used to request a certificate as described in Section 4.1. The
responding PKI management entity
as described in Section 5.1.5.

 proceed as follows unless it initiates delayed delivery

MUST

MUST

MUST

 verify the presence and value of

 check the message body according to the applicable

The PKI management entity
requirements from Section 4.1. Possible failInfo bit values used for error reporting in case a
check failed include badCertId and badCertTemplate. It
the proof-of-possession (failInfo bit: badPOP) unless central key generation is requested. If a
signature-based proof-of-possession is present, the PKI management entity
local PKI policy, that the subject name in the certTemplate identifies the same entity as the
subject name in the CMP protection certificate or matches the identifier used with MAC-based
protection. In case this verification fails, the message
PKI management entity (failInfo bit: notAuthorized). If the special POP value "raVerified" is
given, the PKI management entity should check that the request message was signed using a
certificate containing the cmcRA extended key usage (failInfo bit: notAuthorized). The PKI
management entity should also perform any further checks on the certTemplate contents
(failInfo: badCertTemplate) according to any applicable PKI policy and certificate profile.

MUST

MUST

 have been protected by an authorized

 verify, based on

If the requested certificate is available, the PKI management entity
ip/cp/kup message as described in Section 4.1.

MUST

 respond with a positive

Note: If central key generation is performed by the responding PKI management entity, the
responding PKI management entity
 include the private key in encrypted form in the
response as specified in Section 4.1.6.

MUST

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

The prerequisites of the respective PKI management operation specified in Section 4.1 apply.

If the EE requested omission of the certConf message, the PKI management entity
as described in Section 4.1.1. Therefore, it
generalInfo field or including the confirmWaitTime field in the response header.

 grant this by including the implicitConfirm

MUST

MAY

 handle it

5.1.2.  Responding to a Confirmation Message

A PKI management entity
positive ip/cp/kup message not granting implicit confirmation. It should check the message body
according to the requirements given in Section 4.1.1 (failInfo bit: badCertId) and
described there.

 handle a certConf message if it has responded before with a

 react as

MUST

MUST

The prerequisites of the respective PKI management operation specified in Section 4.1 apply.

5.1.3.  Responding to a Revocation Request

An rr message is used to request revocation of a certificate. The responding PKI management
entity should check the message body according to the requirements in Section 4.2. It
sure that the referenced certificate exists (failInfo bit: badCertId), has been issued by the
addressed CA, and is not already expired or revoked (failInfo bit: certRevoked). On success, it
MUST

 respond with a positive rp message, as described in Section 4.2.

MUST

 make

No specific prerequisites apply in addition to those specified in Section 3.4.

5.1.4.  Responding to a Support Message

A genm message is used to retrieve extra content. The responding PKI management entity should
check the message body according to the applicable requirements in Section 4.3 and perform any
 respond with a genp message as
further checks depending on the PKI policy. On success, it
described there.

MUST

Note: The responding PKI management entity may generate the response from scratch or reuse
the contents of previous responses. Therefore, it may be worth caching the body of the response
message as long as the contained information is valid and current, such that further requests for
the same contents can be answered immediately.

No specific prerequisites apply in addition to those specified in Section 3.4.

5.1.5.  Initiating Delayed Delivery

This functional extension can be used by a PKI management entity in case the response to a
request takes longer than usual. In this case, the PKI management entity should completely
validate the request as usual and then start processing the request itself or forward it further
upstream as soon as possible. In the meantime, it
including the status "waiting" and handle subsequent polling as described in Section 4.4.

 respond with an ip/cp/kup/error message

MUST

Typically, as stated in Section 5.2.3, an intermediate PKI management entity should not change
the sender and recipient nonces even in case it modifies a request or a response message. In the
special case of delayed delivery initiated by an intermediate PKI management entity, there is an

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

exception. Between the EE and this PKI management entity, pollReq and pollRep messages are
exchanged handling the nonces as usual. Yet when the final response from upstream has arrived
at the PKI management entity, this response contains the recipNonce copied (as usual) from the
senderNonce in the original request message. The PKI management entity that initiated the
delayed delivery
the last received pollReq because the downstream entities, including the EE, might expect it in
this way. Yet the check specified in Section 3.5 allows alternate use of the senderNonce of the
original request.

 replace the recipNonce in the response message with the senderNonce of

MAY

No specific prerequisites apply in addition to those of the respective PKI management operation.

5.2.  Forwarding Messages

In case the PKI solution consists of intermediate PKI management entities (i.e., LRA or RA), each
CMP request message coming from an EE or any other downstream PKI management entity
 either be forwarded to the next (upstream) PKI management entity as described in this
MUST
section, or answered as described in Section 5.1. Any received response message or a locally
generated error message

 be forwarded to the next (downstream) PKI entity.

MUST

In addition to the checks described in Section 3.5, the forwarding PKI management entity
verify the proof-of-possession for ir/cr/kur/p10cr messages. If one of these verification
procedures fails, the RA proceeds as described in Section 3.6.

MAY

SHOULD NOT

 change the received message unless its role in the PKI
A PKI management entity
system requires it. This is because changes to the message header or body imply reprotection.
Changes to the protection breaks end-to-end authentication of the message source. Changes to
the certificate template in a certificate request breaks proof-of-possession. More details are
available in the following subsections. Concrete PKI system specifications may define when to do
so in more detail.

This is particularly relevant in the upstream communication of a request message.

Each forwarding PKI management entity has one or more functionalities. It may:

•

verify the identities of EEs and make authorization decisions for certification request
processing based on local PKI policy,

•

add or modify fields of certificate request messages,

•

replace a MAC-based protection with a signature-based protection that can also be verified
further upstream and vice versa,

•

double-check if the messages transferred back and forth are properly protected and well-
formed,

•

provide an authentic indication that it has performed all required checks,

•

initiate a delayed delivery due to delays transferring messages or handling requests, or

•

collect messages from multiple RAs and forward them jointly.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Note: PKI management entities forwarding messages may also store data from a message in a
database for later usage or audit purposes. They may also support traversal of a network
boundary.

The decision if a message should be forwarded is:

•

unchanged with the original protection,

•

unchanged with an additional protection, or

•

changed with an additional protection

depending on the PKI solution design and the associated security policy, e.g., as defined in the
certificate policy (CP) / certification practice statement (CPS) documents [RFC3647]
.

A PKI management entity

SHOULD

 add or

MAY

 replace a protection of a message if it

•

needs to securely indicate that it has done checks or validations on the message to one of the
next (upstream) PKI management entities or

•

needs to protect the message using a key and certificate from a different PKI.

If retaining end-to-end message authentication is required, an additional protection
added instead of replacing the original protection.

SHALL

 be

A PKI management entity

MUST

 replace a protection of a message if it

•

performs changes to the header or the body of the message or

•

needs to convert from or to a MAC-based protection.

This is particularly relevant in the upstream communication of certificate request messages.

Note that the message protection covers only the header and the body and not the extraCerts.
The PKI management entity
adaptations, e.g., to sort, add, or delete certificates to support subsequent PKI entities. This may
be particularly helpful to augment upstream messages with additional certificates or to reduce
the number of certificates in downstream messages when forwarding to constrained devices.

 change the extraCerts in any of the following message

MAY

5.2.1.  Not Changing Protection

This variant means that a PKI management entity forwards a CMP message without changing the
header, body, or protection. In this case, the PKI management entity acts more like a proxy, e.g.,
on a network boundary, implementing no specific RA-like security functionality that requires an
authentic indication to the PKI. Still, the PKI management entity might implement checks that
result in refusing to forward the request message and instead responding as specified in Section
3.6.

This variant of forwarding a message or the one described in Section 5.2.2.1
kur messages and for central key generation.

MUST

 be used for

No specific prerequisites apply in addition to those specified in Section 3.4.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 60

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

5.2.2.  Adding Protection and Batching of Messages

This variant of forwarding a message means that a PKI management entity adds another
protection to PKI management messages before forwarding them.

The nested message is a PKI management message containing a PKIMessages sequence as its
body, containing one or more CMP messages.

As specified in the updated
[RFC9480]
entity. Specific procedures are described in more detail in the following sections.

Section 2.6 of CMP Updates
), there are various use cases for adding another protection by a PKI management

Section 5.1.3.4 of [RFC4210]

 (also see

Detailed Message Description:

Nested Message - nested

Field                         Value

header
    -- As described in Section 3.1

body
    -- Container to provide additional protection to original
    --   messages and to bundle request messages or alternatively
    --   response messages
  PKIMessages                 REQUIRED
    -- MUST be a sequence of one or more CMP messages

protection                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.2, using the CMP protection key of
    --   the PKI management entity

extraCerts                    REQUIRED
    -- As described in Section 3.3

5.2.2.1.  Adding Protection to a Request Message

This variant means that a PKI management entity forwards a CMP message while authentically
indicating successful validation and approval of a request message without changing the original
message authentication.

By adding a protection using its own CMP protection key, the PKI management entity provides a
proof of verifying and approving the message, as described above. Thus, the PKI management
entity acts as an actual registration authority (RA), which implements important security
functionality of the PKI. Applying an additional protection is specifically relevant when
forwarding a message that requests a certificate update or central key generation. This is because
the original protection of the EE needs to be preserved while adding an indication of approval by
the PKI management entity.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 61

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

MUST

 copy the values of the senderNonce and transactionID header fields of the

The PKI management entity wrapping the original request message in a nested message
structure
original message to the respective header fields of the nested message and apply signature-based
protection. The additional signature serves as proof of verification and authorization by this PKI
management entity.

The PKI management entity receiving such a nested message that contains a single request
message
 validate the additional protection signature on the nested message and check the
authorization for the approval it implies. Other fields in the header of the nested message can be
ignored.

MUST

The PKI management entity responding to the request contained in the nested message sends the
response message as described in Section 5.1, without wrapping it in a nested message.

Note: When responding to the inner request message, it must be considered that the verification
and approval activity described in this section has already been performed by the PKI
management entity that protected the nested message.

Note: This form of nesting messages is characterized by the fact that the transactionID in the
header of the nested message is the same as the one used in the included message.

The specific prerequisite augmenting the prerequisites in Section 3.4 is as follows:

•

The PKI management entity
authorization to perform approval of the request according to the PKI policies.

 be able to validate the respective request and have the

MUST

Message Flow:

Step# PKI management entity               PKI management entity
 1   format nested
 2                      ->  nested   ->
 3                                        handle or forward nested
 4                                        format or receive response
 5                      <-  response <-
 6   forward response

5.2.2.2.  Batching Messages

MAY

 bundle any number of PKI management messages for batch

A PKI management entity
processing or to transfer a bulk of PKI management messages using the nested message
structure. In this use case, nested messages are used both on the upstream interface for
transferring request messages towards the next PKI management entity and on its downstream
interface for response messages.

This PKI management operation is typically used on the interface between an LRA and an RA to
bundle several messages for offline or asynchronous delivery. In this case, the LRA needs to
initiate delayed delivery, as described in Section 5.1.5. If the RA needs different routing
information per the nested PKI management message provided upstream, a suitable mechanism

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 62

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

may need to be implemented to ensure that the downstream delivery of the response is done to
the right requester. Since this mechanism strongly depends on the requirements of the target
architecture, it is out of scope of this document.

A nested message containing requests is generated locally at the PKI management entity. For the
upstream nested message, the PKI management entity acts as a protocol endpoint; therefore, a
fresh transactionID and a fresh senderNonce
An upstream nested message may contain request messages, e.g., ir, cr, p10cr, kur, pollReq,
certConf, rr, or genm. While building the upstream nested message, the PKI management entity
must store the sender, transactionID, and senderNonce fields of all bundled messages together
with the transactionID of the upstream nested message.

 be used in the header of the nested message.

MUST

MUST

MUST

 use the transactionID of the upstream nested message and return the senderNonce of the

 handle each of the included request messages as
 answer with a downstream nested message. This downstream nested message

Such an upstream nested message is sent to the next PKI management entity. The upstream PKI
management entity that unbundles it
usual. It
MUST
upstream nested message as the recipNonce of the downstream nested message. The
downstream nested message
 bundle all available individual response messages (e.g., ip, cp,
kup, pollRep, pkiConf, rp, genp, or error) for all original request messages of the upstream nested
message. While unbundling the downstream nested message, the former PKI management entity
must determine lost and unexpected responses based on the previously stored transactionIDs.
When it forwards the unbundled responses, any extra messages
missing response message
to inform the respective requester about the failed certificate management operation.

 be answered with an error message (failInfo bit: systemUnavail)

 be dropped, and any

MUST

MUST

MUST

Note: This form of nesting messages is characterized by the fact that the transactionID in the
header of the nested message is different to those used in the included messages.

The protection of the nested messages
approval of the bundled PKI request messages.

MUST NOT

 be regarded as an indication of verification or

No specific prerequisites apply in addition to those specified in Section 3.4.

Message Flow:

Step# PKI management entity               PKI management entity
 1   format nested
 2                      ->  nested   ->
 3                                        handle or forward nested
 4                                        format or receive nested
 5                      <-  nested   <-
 6   handle nested

5.2.3.  Replacing Protection

The following two alternatives can be used by any PKI management entity forwarding a CMP
message with or without changes while providing its own protection and, in this way, asserting
approval of the message.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 63

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

If retaining end-to-end message authentication is required, an additional protection
added instead of replacing the original protection.

SHALL

 be

By replacing the existing protection using its own CMP protection key, the PKI management
entity provides a proof of verifying and approving the message as described above. Thus, the PKI
management entity acts as an actual registration authority (RA), which implements important
security functionality of the PKI such as verifying the proof of requester identity and
authorization.

Note: By replacing the message protection, the binding of a signature-based proof-of-possession
to the proof-of-identity given by the original message protection gets lost. To enable the CA to
verify this binding, the original message can be provided in the origPKIMessage generalInfo
field.

Before replacing the existing protection with a new protection, the PKI management entity:

• MUST

 validate the protection of the received message,

•

should check the content of the message,

•

may do any modifications that it wants to perform, and

• MUST

 check that the sender of the original message, as authenticated by the message

protection, is authorized for the given operation.

•

for certificate requests,
proof-of-identity as described in Section 5.1.1.

MUST

 verify the binding of signature-based proof-of-possession to the

These message adaptations
their original protection using the key and certificate to be updated needs to be preserved.

 be applied to kur messages described in Section 4.1.3 since

MUST NOT

These message adaptations
Section 4.1.6 for central key generation since their original protection needs to be preserved up
to the KGA, which needs to use it for encrypting the new private key for the EE.

 be applied to certificate request messages described in

MUST NOT

In both the kur and central key generation cases, if a PKI management entity needs to state its
approval of the original request message, it
MUST
specified in Section 5.2.2.1.

 provide this using a nested message as

When an intermediate PKI management entity modifies a message, it
transactionID, the senderNonce, or the recipNonce, apart from the exception for the recipNonce
given in Section 5.1.5.

 change the

MUST NOT

5.2.3.1.  Not Changing Proof-of-Possession

This variant of forwarding a message means that a PKI management entity forwards a CMP
message with or without modifying the message header or body while preserving any included
proof-of-possession.

This variant is typically used when an RA replaces an existing MAC-based protection with its own
signature-based protection; because the upstream PKI management entity does not know the
respective shared secret information, replacing the protection is useful.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 64

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Note: A signature-based proof-of-possession of a certificate request will be broken if any field in
the certTemplate structure is changed.

In case the PKI management entity breaks an existing proof-of-possession, the message
adaptation described in Section 5.2.3.2 needs to be applied instead.

The specific prerequisite augmenting the prerequisites in Section 3.4 is as follows:

•

The PKI management entity
authorization to perform approval of the request according to the PKI policies.

 be able to validate the respective request and have the

MUST

5.2.3.2.  Using raVerified

This variant of forwarding a message needs to be used if a PKI management entity breaks any
included proof-of-possession in a certificate request message, for instance, because it forwards
an ir or cr message with modifications of the certTemplate, i.e., modification, addition, or
removal of fields.

The PKI management entity
message using the included public key. If successful, the PKI management entity
popo field value to raVerified.

 verify the proof-of-possession contained in the original

MUST

MUST

 change the

Specific prerequisites augmenting the prerequisites in Section 3.4 are as follows:

•

The PKI management entity
verifying it) with raVerified.

MUST

 be authorized to replace the proof-of-possession (after

•

The PKI management entity
authorization to perform approval of the request according to the PKI policies.

 be able to validate the respective request and have the

MUST

Detailed Description of the popo Field of the certReq Structure:

    popo
      raVerified              REQUIRED
    -- MUST have the value NULL and indicates that the PKI
    --   management entity verified the popo of the original message

5.3.  Acting on Behalf of Other PKI Entities

A PKI management entity may need to request a PKI management operation on behalf of another
PKI entity. In this case, the PKI management entity initiates the respective PKI management
operation as described in Section 4, acting in the role of the EE.

Note: The request message protection will not authenticate the EE, but it will authenticate the RA
acting on behalf of the EE.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 65

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

5.3.1.  Requesting a Certificate

A PKI management entity may use one of the PKI management operations described in Section
4.1 to request a certificate on behalf of another PKI entity. It either generates the key pair itself
and inserts the new public key in the subjectPublicKey field of the request certTemplate, or it
uses a certificate request received from downstream, e.g., by means of a different protocol. In the
latter case, it
CRMF [RFC4211] MUST
transformation from
PKI policy, that the subject name in the certTemplate identifies the EE.

 verify the received proof-of-possession if this proof breaks, e.g., due to

 also verify, based on local

PKCS #10 [RFC2986]

MUST

. It

 to

No specific prerequisites apply in addition to those specified in Section 4.1.

Note: An upstream PKI management entity will not be able to differentiate this PKI management
operation from the one described in Section 5.2.3 because, in both cases, the message is protected
by the PKI management entity.

The message sequence for this PKI management operation is identical to the respective PKI
management operation given in Section 4.1, with the following changes:

1.

The request messages
MUST
entity taking the role of the EE in this operation.

 be signed using the CMP protection key of the PKI management

2.

If inclusion of a proper proof-of-possession is not possible, the PKI management entity
verify the POP provided from downstream and use "raVerified" in its upstream request.

MUST

3.

The binding of the proof-of-possession to the proof-of-identity of the requesting EE cannot be
provided when acting on behalf of the EE.

5.3.2.  Revoking a Certificate

A PKI management entity may use the PKI management operation described in Section 4.2 to
revoke a certificate of another PKI entity. This revocation request message
PKI management entity using its own CMP protection key to prove to the PKI authorization to
revoke the certificate on behalf of that PKI entity.

MUST

 be signed by the

No specific prerequisites apply in addition to those specified in Section 4.2.

Note: An upstream PKI management entity will not be able to differentiate this PKI management
operation from the ones described in Section 5.2.3.

The message sequence for this PKI management operation is identical to that given in Section 4.2,
with the following changes:

1.

The rr message
acting on behalf of the EE in this operation.

MUST

 be signed using the CMP protection key of the PKI management entity

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 66

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

6.  CMP Message Transfer Mechanisms

CMP messages are designed to be self-contained, such that, in principle, any reliable transfer
mechanism can be used. EEs will typically support only one transfer mechanism. PKI
management entities
CMP messages on any other reliable transfer protocol
be used in case offline transfer is required.

 offer CoAP where required. Piggybacking of
MAY

 be used, and file-based transfer

 offer HTTP and

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

Independently of the means of transfer, it can happen that messages are lost or that a
communication partner does not respond. To prevent waiting indefinitely, each PKI entity that
sends CMP requests should use a configurable per-request timeout, and each PKI management
entity that handles CMP requests should use a configurable timeout in case a further request
message is to be expected from the client side within the same transaction. In this way, a hanging
transaction can be closed cleanly with an error as described in Section 3.6 (failInfo bit:
systemUnavail), and related resources (for instance, any cached extraCerts) can be freed.

Moreover, there are various situations where the delivery of messages gets delayed. For instance,
a serving PKI management entity might take longer than expected to form a response due to
administrative processes, resource constraints, or upstream message delivery delays. The
transport layer itself may cause delays, for instance, due to offline transport, network
segmentation, or intermittent network connectivity. Part of these issues can be detected and
handled at CMP level using pollReq and pollRep messages as described in Section 4.4, while
others are better handled at transfer level. Depending on the transfer protocol and system
architecture, solutions for handling delays at transfer level may be present and can be used for
CMP connections, for instance, connection reestablishment and message retransmission.

Note: Long timeout periods are helpful to maximize chances to handle minor delays at lower
layers without the need for polling.

Note: When using TCP and similar reliable connection-oriented transport protocols, which is
typical in conjunction with HTTP, there is the option to keep the connection alive over multiple
request-response message pairs. This may improve efficiency.

When conveying CMP messages in HTTP, CoAP, or MIME-based transfer protocols, the Internet
media type "application/pkixcmp"
CMP over HTTP [RFC6712]

 be set for transfer encoding as specified in

Section 2.3 of CMP over CoAP [RFC9482]
.

MUST

 and

Section 3.4 of

6.1.  HTTP Transfer

This transfer mechanism can be used by a PKI entity to transfer CMP messages over HTTP. If
HTTP transfer is used, the specifications described in
[RFC9480] MUST

 and updated by

 be followed.

[RFC6712]

CMP Updates

PKI management operations
known/cmp/p/<name>' as specified in
followed by an operation label depending on the type of PKI management operation.

Section 3.3 of CMP Updates [RFC9480]

 use a URI path consisting of '/.well-known/cmp' or '/.well-

SHOULD

MUST

. It

 be

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 67

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

PKI Management Operation

URI Path Segment

Details

Enrolling an End Entity to a New PKI

initialization

Enrolling an End Entity to a Known PKI

certification

Updating a Valid Certificate

keyupdate

Enrolling an End Entity Using a PKCS #10 Request

pkcs10

Section
4.1.1

Section
4.1.2

Section
4.1.3

Section
4.1.4

Revoking a Certificate

Get CA Certificates

revocation

Section 4.2

getcacerts

Get Root CA Certificate Update

getrootupdate

Get Certificate Request Template

getcertreqtemplate

CRL Update Retrieval

Batching Messages
Note: This path element is applicable only between PKI
management entities.

Table 1: HTTP URI Path Segment <operation>

If operation labels are used:

getcrls

nested

Section
4.3.1

Section
4.3.2

Section
4.3.3

Section
4.3.4

Section
5.2.2.2

•

independently of any variants used (see Sections 4.1.5, 4.1.6, and 4.4), the operation label
corresponding to the PKI management operation

 be used.

SHALL

•

any certConf or pollReq messages
PKI management operation.

SHALL

 be sent to the same endpoint as determined by the

•

when a single request message is nested as described in Section 5.2.2.1, the label to use
SHALL

 be the same as for the underlying PKI management operation.

By sending a request to its preferred endpoint, the PKI entity will recognize, via the HTTP
response status code, whether a configured URI is supported by the PKI management entity.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 68

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

In case a PKI management entity receives an unexpected HTTP status code from upstream, it
MUST
corresponding to the status code, e.g., systemFailure.

 respond downstream with an error message as described in Section 3.6, using a failInfo bit

For certificate management, the major security goal is integrity and data origin authentication.
For delivery of centrally generated keys, confidentiality is also a must. These goals are
sufficiently achieved by CMP itself, also in an end-to-end fashion.

If a second line of defense is required or general privacy concerns exist, TLS can be used to
provide confidentiality on a hop-by-hop basis. TLS should be used with certificate-based
authentication to further protect the HTTP transfer as described in
recommendations provided in

 should be followed.

[RFC9110]

[RFC9325]

. In addition, the

Note: The requirements for checking certificates given in
[RFC8446]
TLS certificates of all communication partners.

 must be followed for the TLS layer. Certificate status checking should be used for the

[RFC5280]

 and either

[RFC5246]

 or

TLS with mutual authentication based on shared secret information may be used in case no
suitable certificates for certificate-based authentication are available, e.g., a PKI management
operation with MAC-based protection is used.

Note: The entropy of the shared secret information is crucial for the level of protection available
using shard secret information-based TLS authentication. A pre-shared key (PSK) mechanism
may be used with shared secret information with an entropy of at least 128 bits. Otherwise, a
password-authenticated key exchange (PAKE) protocol is recommended.

Note: The provisioning of client certificates and PSKs is out of scope of this document.

6.2.  CoAP Transfer

This transfer mechanism can be used by a PKI entity to transfer CMP messages over
[RFC7252]
described in

, e.g., in constrained environments. If CoAP transfer is used, the specifications

CMP over CoAP [RFC9482] MUST

 be followed.

CoAP

PKI management operations
known/cmp/p/<name>' as specified in
followed by an operation label depending on the type of PKI management operation.

 use a URI path consisting of '/.well-known/cmp' or '/.well-
 be

Section 2.1 of CMP over CoAP [RFC9482]

SHOULD

MUST

. It

PKI Management Operation

Enrolling an End Entity to a New PKI

Enrolling an End Entity to a Known PKI

URI Path
Segment

ir

cr

Details

Section
4.1.1

Section
4.1.2

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 69

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

PKI Management Operation

Updating a Valid Certificate

Enrolling an End Entity Using a PKCS #10 Request

Revoking a Certificate

Get CA Certificates

Get Root CA Certificate Update

Get Certificate Request Template

CRL Update Retrieval

Batching Messages
Note: This path element is applicable only between PKI
management entities.

Table 2: CoAP URI Path Segment <operation>

If operation labels are used:

URI Path
Segment

kur

p10

rr

crts

rcu

att

crls

nest

Details

Section
4.1.3

Section
4.1.4

Section 4.2

Section
4.3.1

Section
4.3.2

Section
4.3.3

Section
4.3.4

Section
5.2.2.2

•

independently of any variants used (see Sections 4.1.5, 4.1.6, and 4.4), the operation label
corresponding to the PKI management operation

 be used.

SHALL

•

any certConf or pollReq messages
PKI management operation.

SHALL

 be sent to the same endpoint, as determined by the

•

when a single request message is nested as described in Section 5.2.2.1, the label to use
SHALL

 be the same as for the underlying PKI management operation.

By sending a request to its preferred endpoint, the PKI entity will recognize, via the CoAP
response status code, whether a configured URI is supported by the PKI management entity. The
CoAP-inherent discovery mechanisms

 also be used.

MAY

In case a PKI management entity receives an unexpected CoAP status code from upstream, it
MUST
corresponding to the status code, e.g., systemFailure.

 respond downstream with an error message, as described in Section 3.6, using a failInfo bit

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 70

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Like for HTTP transfer, to offer a second line of defense or to provide hop-by-hop privacy
protection, DTLS may be utilized as described in
the same boundary conditions (peer authentication, etc.) as those stated for TLS to protect HTTP
transfer in Section 6.1 apply to DTLS likewise.

CMP over CoAP [RFC9482]

. If DTLS is utilized,

Note: The provisioning of client certificates and PSKs is out of scope of this document.

6.3.  Piggybacking on Other Reliable Transfer

MAY

 also be transferred on some other reliable protocol, e.g., Extensible

CMP messages
Authentication Protocol (EAP) or Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT). Connection,
delay, and error handling mechanisms similar to those specified for HTTP in
be implemented.

[RFC6712]

 need to

A more detailed specification is out of scope of this document and would need to be given, for
instance, in the scope of the transfer protocol used.

6.4.  Offline Transfer

For transferring CMP messages between PKI entities, any mechanism that is able to store and
forward binary objects of sufficient length and with sufficient reliability while preserving the
order of messages for each transaction can be used.

The transfer mechanism should be able to indicate message loss, excessive delay, and possibly
 report an error as specified in
other transmission errors. In such cases, the PKI entities
Section 3.6, as far as possible.

MUST

6.4.1.  File-Based Transfer

MAY

 be transferred between PKI entities using file-based mechanisms, for

CMP messages
instance, when an EE is offline or a PKI management entity performs delayed delivery. Each file
 contain the ASN.1 DER encoding of one CMP message only, where the message may be
MUST
 be no extraneous header or trailer information in the file. The filename
nested. There
extension ".pki"

 be used.

MUST

MUST

6.4.2.  Other Asynchronous Transfer Protocols

Other asynchronous transfer protocols, e.g., email or website upload/download,
 transfer
CMP messages between PKI entities. A MIME wrapping is defined for those environments that
are MIME-native. The MIME wrapping is specified in

Section 3.1 of [RFC8551]
.

MAY

The ASN.1 DER encoding of the CMP messages
pkixcmp" content type and base64-encoded content transfer encoding, as specified in
of CMP over HTTP [RFC6712]
"content-disposition" statement. The filename extension ".pki"

 be included either in a "content-type" or a

 be transferred using the "application/

. A filename

 be used.

MUST

MUST

MUST

Section 3.4

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 71

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

7.  Conformance Requirements

This section defines which level of support for the various features specified in this profile is
required for each type of PKI entity.

7.1.  PKI Management Operations

The following table provides an overview of the PKI management operations specified in
Sections 4 and 5 and states whether support by conforming EE, RA, and CA implementations is
mandatory, recommended, optional, or not applicable. Variants amend or change behavior of
base PKI management operations and are therefore also included.

The PKI management operation specifications in Section 4 assume that either the RA or CA is the
PKI management entity that terminates the Certificate Management Protocol. If the RA
terminates CMP, it either responds directly as described in Section 5.1, or it forwards the
certificate management operation towards the CA not using CMP. Section 5.2 describes different
options of how an RA can forward a CMP message using CMP. Section 5.3 offers the option that an
RA operates on behalf on an EE and therefore takes the role of the EE in Section 4.

ID

PKI Management Operations and
Variants

EE

RA

CA

Generic

Generic Aspects of PKI Messages and PKI
Management Operations, Section 3

MUST

MUST

MUST

IR

CR

Enrolling an End Entity to a New PKI,
Section 4.1.1

MUST

MAY

MUST

Enrolling an End Entity to a Known PKI,
Section 4.1.2

MAY

MAY

MAY

KUR

Updating a Valid Certificate, Section 4.1.3

MUST

MAY

MUST

P10CR

MAC

Enrolling an End Entity Using a PKCS #10
Request, Section 4.1.4

MAY

MAY

MAY

Using MAC-Based Protection for Enrollment
(IR, CR, and P10CR if supported), Section
4.1.5

MAY

SHOULD
1)

MAY

CKeyGen

Adding Central Key Pair Generation to
Enrollment (IR, CR, KUR, and P10CR if
supported), Section 4.1.6

MAY

MAY

MAY

RR

Revoking a Certificate, Section 4.2

SHOULD

SHOULD
2)

SHOULD
3)

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 72

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

ID

PKI Management Operations and
Variants

EE

RA

CA

CACerts

Get CA Certificates, Section 4.3.1

MAY

MAY

RootUpd

Get Root CA Certificate Update, Section 4.3.2

MAY

MAY

ReqTempl

Get Certificate Request Template, Section
4.3.3

MAY

MAY

CRLUpd

CRL Update Retrieval, Section 4.3.4

MAY

MAY

Polling

Handling Delayed Delivery, Section 4.4

MAY

MAY

MAY

MAY

MAY

MAY

MAY

CertResp

Responding to a Certificate Request (IR, CR,
KUR, and P10CR if supported), Section 5.1.1

N/A

MAY

MUST

CertConf

Responding to a Confirmation Message,
Section 5.1.2

N/A

MAY

MUST

RevResp

GenResp

Responding to a Revocation Request,
Section 5.1.3

N/A

MAY

SHOULD

Responding to a Support Message (CACerts,
RootUpd, ReqTempl, CRLUpd if supported),
Section 5.1.4

N/A

MAY

MAY

InitPoll

Initiating Delayed Delivery, Section 5.1.5

FwdKeep

Forwarding Messages - Not Changing
Protection, Section 5.2.1

N/A

N/A

MAY

MAY

MUST

N/A

FwdAddS

Forwarding Messages - Adding Protection to
a Request Message, Section 5.2.2.1

N/A

MUST

MUST

FwdAddB

Forwarding Messages - Batching Messages,
Section 5.2.2.2

N/A

MAY

MAY

FwdReqKP

Forwarding Messages - Not Changing Proof-
of-Possession, Section 5.2.3.1

N/A

SHOULD
1)

N/A

FwdReqBP

Forwarding Messages - Using raVerified,
Section 5.2.3.2

N/A

MAY

MAY

CertROnB

Acting on Behalf of Other PKI Entities -
Requesting a Certificate, Section 5.3.1

N/A

MAY

N/A

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 73

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

ID

PKI Management Operations and
Variants

EE

RA

CA

RevROnB

Acting on Behalf of Other PKI Entities -
Revoking a Certificate, Section 5.3.2

N/A

SHOULD
2)

SHOULD
3)

Table 3: Level of Support for PKI Management Operations and Variants

1)

2)

3)

The RA should be able to change the CMP message protection from MAC-based to
signature-based protection; see Section 5.2.3.1.

The RA should be able to request certificate revocation on behalf of an EE (see Section
5.3.2), e.g., in order to handle incidents.

An alternative would be to perform revocation at the CA without using CMP, for instance,
using a local administration interface.

7.2.  Message Transfer

CMP does not have specific needs regarding message transfer, except that, for each request
message sent, eventually a sequence of one response message should be received. Therefore,
virtually any reliable transfer mechanism can be used, such as HTTP, CoAP, and file-based offline
transfer. Thus, this document does not require any specific transfer protocol to be supported by
conforming implementations.

On different links between PKI entities (e.g., EE-RA and RA-CA), different transfer mechanisms, as
specified in Section 6, may be used.

SHOULD

 be supported and CoAP

 be supported at all PKI entities for maximizing
HTTP
general interoperability at transfer level. Yet full flexibility is retained to choose whatever
transfer mechanism is suitable, for instance, for devices and system architectures with specific
constraints.

MAY

The following table lists the name and level of support specified for each transfer mechanism.

ID

Message Transfer Type

EE

RA

CA

HTTP

HTTP Transfer, Section 6.1

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

CoAP

CoAP Transfer, Section 6.2

MAY

MAY

MAY

Piggyb

Piggybacking on Other Reliable Transfer, Section
6.3

MAY

MAY

MAY

Offline

Offline Transfer, Section 6.4

MAY

MAY

MAY

Table 4: Level of Support for Message Transfer Types

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 74

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following content in the "CMP Well-Known URI Path Segments" registry
(see

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/cmp>

), as defined in

[RFC8615]
.

Path Segment

Description

Reference

initialization

certification

Enrolling an End Entity to a New PKI over
HTTP

RFC 9483, Section
4.1.1

Enrolling an End Entity to a Known PKI over
HTTP

RFC 9483, Section
4.1.2

keyupdate

Updating a Valid Certificate over HTTP

RFC 9483, Section
4.1.3

pkcs10

Enrolling an End Entity Using a PKCS #10
Request over HTTP

RFC 9483, Section
4.1.4

revocation

Revoking a Certificate over HTTP

RFC 9483, Section 4.2

getcacerts

Get CA Certificates over HTTP

getrootupdate

Get Root CA Certificate Update over HTTP

getcertreqtemplate

Get Certificate Request Template over HTTP

getcrls

CRL Update Retrieval over HTTP

nested

Batching Messages over HTTP

RFC 9483, Section
4.3.1

RFC 9483, Section
4.3.2

RFC 9483, Section
4.3.3

RFC 9483, Section
4.3.4

RFC 9483, Section
5.2.2.2

ir

cr

kur

Enrolling an End Entity to a New PKI over
CoAP

RFC 9483, Section
4.1.1

Enrolling an End Entity to a Known PKI over
CoAP

RFC 9483, Section
4.1.2

Updating a Valid Certificate over CoAP

RFC 9483, Section
4.1.3

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 75

p10

rr

crts

rcu

att

crls

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Path Segment

Description

Reference

Enrolling an End Entity Using a PKCS #10
Request over CoAP

RFC 9483, Section
4.1.4

Revoking a Certificate over CoAP

RFC 9483, Section 4.2

Get CA Certificates over CoAP

Get Root CA Certificate Update over CoAP

Get Certificate Request Template over CoAP

CRL Update Retrieval over CoAP

RFC 9483, Section
4.3.1

RFC 9483, Section
4.3.2

RFC 9483, Section
4.3.3

RFC 9483, Section
4.3.4

RFC 9483, Section
5.2.2.2

nest

Batching Messages over CoAP

Table 5: New "CMP Well-Known URI Path Segments" Registry Entries

9.  Security Considerations

The security considerations laid out in
CMP Updates [RFC9480]
CMP [RFC4210]
CMP Algorithms [RFC9481] CRMF [RFC4211] Algorithm Requirements Update [RFC9045] CMP
over HTTP [RFC6712]

,
CMP over CoAP [RFC9482]

 and updated by

 apply.

, and

,

,

,

MUST

Trust anchors for chain validations are often provided in the form of self-signed certificates. All
 be stored on the device with integrity protection. In some cases, a PKI entity
trust anchors
may not have sufficient storage for the complete certificates. In such cases, it may only store, e.g.,
a hash of each self-signed certificate and require receiving the certificate in the extraCerts field,
as described in Section 3.3. If such self-signed certificates are provided in-band in the messages,
they

 be verified using information from the trust store of the PKI entity.

MUST

For TLS using shared secret information-based authentication, both PSK and PAKE provide the
same amount of protection against a real-time authentication attack, which is directly the
amount of entropy in the shared secret. The difference between a pre-shared key (PSK) and a
password-authenticated key exchange (PAKE) protocol is in the level of long-term confidentiality
of the TLS messages against brute-force decryption, where a PSK-based cipher suite only
provides security according to the entropy of the shared secret, while a PAKE-based cipher suite
provides full security independent of the entropy of the shared secret.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 76

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2986]

[RFC4210]

[RFC4211]

[RFC5280]

[RFC5652]

[RFC5958]

[RFC6712]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8615]

[RFC8933]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Nystrom, M.
 and
Version 1.7" RFC 2986 DOI 10.17487/RFC2986
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2986>

.

B. Kaliski "PKCS #10: Certification Request Syntax Specification

,

, November 2000,

<https://

,

Adams, C. Farrell, S. Kause, T.
Infrastructure Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)" RFC 4210 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4210

T. Mononen "Internet X.509 Public Key
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4210>

, September 2005,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Schaad, J. "Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate Request Message
Format (CRMF)" RFC 4211 DOI 10.17487/RFC4211
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4211>

, September 2005,

<https://

,

.

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

Turner, S. "Asymmetric Key Packages" RFC 5958 DOI 10.17487/RFC5958
2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5958>

,

,

,

.

, August

 and

M. Peylo "Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure -- HTTP
Kause, T.
Transfer for the Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)" RFC 6712 DOI
10.17487/RFC6712

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6712>

, September 2012,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Nottingham, M. "Well-Known Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs)" RFC 8615
DOI 10.17487/RFC8615
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8615>

, May 2019,

,

,

,

,

Housley, R. "Update to the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) for Algorithm
<https://
Identifier Protection" RFC 8933 DOI 10.17487/RFC8933
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8933>

, October 2020,

,

.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 77

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

[RFC9045]

[RFC9110]

[RFC9325]

[RFC9480]

[RFC9481]

[RFC9482]

,

Housley, R. "Algorithm Requirements Update to the Internet X.509 Public Key
Infrastructure Certificate Request Message Format (CRMF)" RFC 9045 DOI
10.17487/RFC9045

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9045>

, June 2021,

,

.

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Brockhaus, H. von Oheimb, D.
,
(CMP) Updates" RFC 9480 DOI 10.17487/RFC9480
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9480>

, and

,

.

J. Gray "Certificate Management Protocol

,

, November 2023,

<https://

,

Brockhaus, H. Aschauer, H. Ounsworth, M.
Management Protocol (CMP) Algorithms" RFC 9481 DOI 10.17487/RFC9481
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9481>
November 2023,

J. Gray "Certificate

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

S. Tripathi, Ed. "Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)
Sahni, M., Ed.
Transfer for the Certificate Management Protocol" RFC 9482 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9482

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9482>

, November 2023,

,

,

,

.

10.2.  Informative References

[BRSKI-AE]

[BRSKI-PRM]

,

, and

von Oheimb, D. Fries, S.
Protocols in BRSKI" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-anima-brski-
,
ae-05
ae-05>

,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-anima-brski-
, 28 June 2023,

H. Brockhaus "BRSKI-AE: Alternative Enrollment

,

.

,

,

Fries, S. Werner, T. Lear, E.
Responder Mode (BRSKI-PRM)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-
anima-brski-prm-10
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
draft-ietf-anima-brski-prm-10>

M. Richardson "BRSKI with Pledge in

, 23 October 2023,

, and
,

,

,

.

[ETSI-3GPP.33.310]

3GPP "Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework (AF)"

,

, December 2020,

<http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/html-

,
3GPP TS 33.310 16.6.0
info/33310.htm>

.

[ETSI-EN.319411-1]

ETSI "Electronic Signatures and Infrastructures (ESI); Policy and security

,

requirements for Trust Service Providers issuing certificates; Part 1: General
requirements" V1.3.1 ETSI EN 319 411-1
, May 2021,
deliver/etsi_en/319400_319499/31941101/01.03.01_60/
en_31941101v010301p.pdf>

<https://www.etsi.org/

,

,

.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 78

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

[HTTP-CMP]

[IEC.62443-3-3]

,

,

J. Gray "Internet X.509
Brockhaus, H. von Oheimb, D. Ounsworth, M.
Public Key Infrastructure -- HTTP Transfer for the Certificate Management
Protocol (CMP)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-lamps-rfc6712bis-03
,
10 February 2023,
rfc6712bis-03>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lamps-

, and

,

,

,

.

,

IEC "Industrial communication networks - Network and system security - Part
3-3: System security requirements and security levels" IEC 62443-3-3:2013
August 2013,

,
<https://webstore.iec.ch/publication/7033>

,

.

[IEEE.802.1AR_2018]

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks - Secure

,

Device Identity" IEEE Std 802.1AR-2018 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2018.8423794
<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8423794>
August 2018,

.

,

,

,

[NIST.CSWP.04162018]

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Framework for

,

Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity" Version 1.1 DOI 10.6028/
NIST.CSWP.04162018
NIST.CSWP.04162018.pdf>

<http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/CSWP/

, April 2018,
.

,

,

[NIST.SP.800-57p1r5]

Barker, E. "Recommendation for Key Management: Part 1 - General" DOI

,

,

10.6028/NIST.SP.800-57pt1r5
800-57pt1r5>
.

, May 2020,

<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.

[PKIX-CMP]

[RFC3647]

[RFC5246]

[RFC5753]

[RFC7030]

[RFC7252]

,

Brockhaus, H. von Oheimb, D. Ounsworth, M.
Public Key Infrastructure -- Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-lamps-rfc4210bis-07
<https://
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lamps-rfc4210bis-07>

,
, 19 June 2023,

J. Gray "Internet X.509

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Chokhani, S. Ford, W. Sabett, R. Merrill, C.
,
Key Infrastructure Certificate Policy and Certification Practices Framework"
RFC 3647 DOI 10.17487/RFC3647
info/rfc3647>

S. Wu "Internet X.509 Public
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 2003,

, and

,

,

,

.

Dierks, T.
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
,
info/rfc5246>

E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
 and
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
,
.

, August 2008,

,

 and

D. Brown "Use of Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) Algorithms

Turner, S.
in Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" RFC 5753 DOI 10.17487/RFC5753
January 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5753>

,

,

,

,

.

,

Pritikin, M., Ed. Yee, P., Ed.
Transport" RFC 7030 DOI 10.17487/RFC7030
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7030>

, and

.

D. Harkins, Ed. "Enrollment over Secure
, October 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
,
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

,

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 79

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

[RFC8366]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8551]

[RFC8572]

[RFC8649]

[RFC8995]

[SZTP-CSR]

,

Watsen, K. Richardson, M. Pritikin, M.
Bootstrapping Protocols" RFC 8366 DOI 10.17487/RFC8366
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8366>

, and

,

.

,

,

T. Eckert "A Voucher Artifact for

,

, May 2018,

<https://

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Schaad, J. Ramsdell, B.
Extensions (S/MIME) Version 4.0 Message Specification" RFC 8551 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8551

S. Turner "Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8551>

, April 2019,

, and

,

,

,

.

Watsen, K. Farrer, I.
,
(SZTP)" RFC 8572 DOI 10.17487/RFC8572
editor.org/info/rfc8572>

, and

,

,

.

M. Abrahamsson "Secure Zero Touch Provisioning

,

, April 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

Housley, R. "Hash Of Root Key Certificate Extension" RFC 8649 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8649

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8649>

, August 2019,

,

,

.

,

Pritikin, M. Richardson, M. Eckert, T. Behringer, M.
"Bootstrapping Remote Secure Key Infrastructure (BRSKI)" RFC 8995 DOI
10.17487/RFC8995

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8995>

K. Watsen
,

, May 2021,

, and

,

,

,

.

, and

Watsen, K. Housley, R.
S. Turner "Conveying a Certificate Signing Request
,
(CSR) in a Secure Zero Touch Provisioning (SZTP) Bootstrapping Request" Work
in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-netconf-sztp-csr-14
<https://
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-netconf-sztp-csr-14>

, 2 March 2022,

,

,

,

.

[UNISIG.Subset-137]

UNISIG "ERTMS/ETCS On-line Key Management FFFIS" Subset-137,
,
, December 2015,

<https://www.era.europa.eu/system/files/2023-01/

,

V1.0.0
sos3_index083_-_subset-137_v100.pdf>

.

Appendix A.  Example CertReqTemplate

Suppose the server requires that the certTemplate contains:

•

the issuer field with a value to be filled in by the EE,

•

the subject field with a common name to be filled in by the EE and two organizational unit
fields with given values "myDept" and "myGroup",

•

the publicKey field contains an Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) key on curve secp256r1 or
an RSA public key of length 2048,

•

the subjectAltName extension with DNS name "www.myServer.com" and an IP address to be
filled in,

•

the keyUsage extension marked critical with the value digitalSignature and keyAgreement,
and

•

the extKeyUsage extension with values to be filled in by the EE.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 80

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

Then the infoValue with certTemplate and keySpec fields returned to the EE will be encoded as
follows:

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 81

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

SEQUENCE {
  SEQUENCE {
    [3] {
      SEQUENCE {}
      }
    [5] {
      SEQUENCE {
        SET {
          SEQUENCE {
            OBJECT IDENTIFIER commonName (2 5 4 3)
            UTF8String ""
            }
          }
        SET {
          SEQUENCE {
            OBJECT IDENTIFIER organizationalUnitName (2 5 4 11)
            UTF8String "myDept"
            }
          }
        SET {
          SEQUENCE {
            OBJECT IDENTIFIER organizationalUnitName (2 5 4 11)
            UTF8String "myGroup"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    [9] {
      SEQUENCE {
        OBJECT IDENTIFIER subjectAltName (2 5 29 17)
        OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
          SEQUENCE {
            [2] "www.myServer.com"
            [7] ""
            }
          }
        }
      SEQUENCE {
        OBJECT IDENTIFIER keyUsage (2 5 29 15)
        BOOLEAN TRUE
        OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
          BIT STRING 3 unused bits
            "10001"B
          }
        }
      SEQUENCE {
        OBJECT IDENTIFIER extKeyUsage (2 5 29 37)
        OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
          SEQUENCE {}
          }
        }
      }
    }
  SEQUENCE {
    SEQUENCE {
      OBJECT IDENTIFIER algId (1 3 6 1 5 5 7 5 1 11)
        SEQUENCE {

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 82

RFC 9483

LCMPP

November 2023

          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ecPublicKey (1 2 840 10045 2 1)
          OBJECT IDENTIFIER secp256r1 (1 2 840 10045 3 1 7)
          }
      }
    SEQUENCE {
      OBJECT IDENTIFIER rsaKeyLen (1 3 6 1 5 5 7 5 1 12)
      INTEGER 2048
      }
    }
  }

Acknowledgements

We thank the various reviewers of this document.

Authors' Addresses

Hendrik Brockhaus
Siemens
Werner-von-Siemens-Strasse 1
80333 Munich
Germany
Email:
URI:

 https://www.siemens.com

 hendrik.brockhaus@siemens.com

David von Oheimb
Siemens
Werner-von-Siemens-Strasse 1
80333 Munich
Germany
Email:
URI:

 https://www.siemens.com

 david.von.oheimb@siemens.com

Steffen Fries
Siemens AG
Werner-von-Siemens-Strasse 1
80333 Munich
Germany
Email:
URI:

 https://www.siemens.com

 steffen.fries@siemens.com

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 83

