Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9568
5798
Standards Track
April 2024
2070-1721
A. Lindem
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.

A. Dogra
Cisco Systems

RFC 9568
Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP) Version
3 for IPv4 and IPv6

Abstract

This document defines version 3 of the Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP) for IPv4 and
IPv6. It obsoletes RFC 5798, which previously specified VRRP (version 3). RFC 5798 obsoleted RFC
3768, which specified VRRP (version 2) for IPv4. VRRP specifies an election protocol that
dynamically assigns responsibility for a Virtual Router to one of the VRRP Routers on a LAN. The
VRRP Router controlling the IPv4 or IPv6 address(es) associated with a Virtual Router is called
the Active Router, and it forwards packets routed to these IPv4 or IPv6 addresses. Active Routers
are configured with virtual IPv4 or IPv6 addresses, and Backup Routers infer the address family
of the virtual addresses being advertised based on the IP protocol version. Within a VRRP Router,
the Virtual Routers in each of the IPv4 and IPv6 address families are independent of one another
and always treated as separate Virtual Router instances. The election process provides dynamic
failover in the forwarding responsibility should the Active Router become unavailable. For IPv4,
the advantage gained from using VRRP is a higher-availability default path without requiring
configuration of dynamic routing or router discovery protocols on every end-host. For IPv6, the
advantage gained from using VRRP for IPv6 is a quicker switchover to Backup Routers than can
be obtained with standard IPv6 Neighbor Discovery mechanisms.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9568
.

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Differences from RFC 5798

1.2.  A Note on Terminology

1.3.  IPv4

1.4.  IPv6

1.5.  Requirements Language

1.6.  Scope

1.7.  Definitions

2.  Required Features

2.1.  IPvX Address Backup

2.2.  Preferred Path Indication

2.3.  Minimization of Unnecessary Service Disruptions

2.4.  Efficient Operation over Extended LANs

2.5.  Sub-second Operation for IPv4 and IPv6

3.  VRRP Overview

4.  Sample VRRP Networks

4.1.  Sample VRRP Network 1

4.2.  Sample VRRP Network 2

5

5

6

6

7

7

7

7

9

9

9

9

9

10

10

11

11

13

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

5.  Protocol

5.1.  VRRP Packet Format

5.1.1.  IPv4 Field Descriptions

5.1.1.1.  Source Address

5.1.1.2.  Destination Address

5.1.1.3.  TTL

5.1.1.4.  Protocol

5.1.2.  IPv6 Field Descriptions

5.1.2.1.  Source Address

5.1.2.2.  Destination Address

5.1.2.3.  Hop Limit

5.1.2.4.  Next Header

5.2.  VRRP Field Descriptions

5.2.1.  Version

5.2.2.  Type

5.2.3.  Virtual Rtr ID (VRID)

5.2.4.  Priority

5.2.5.  IPvX Addr Count

5.2.6.  Reserve

5.2.7.  Maximum Advertisement Interval (Max Advertise Interval)

5.2.8.  Checksum

5.2.9.  IPvX Address(es)

6.  Protocol State Machine

6.1.  Parameters per Virtual Router

6.2.  Timers

6.3.  State Transition Diagram

6.4.  State Descriptions

6.4.1.  Initialize

6.4.2.  Backup

6.4.3.  Active

14

14

15

15

15

15

15

15

15

16

16

16

16

16

16

16

16

17

17

17

17

17

18

18

19

19

20

20

21

22

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

7.  Sending and Receiving VRRP Packets

7.1.  Receiving VRRP Packets

7.2.  Transmitting VRRP Packets

7.3.  Virtual Router MAC Address

7.4.  IPv6 Interface Identifiers

8.  Operational Issues

8.1.  IPv4

8.1.1.  ICMP Redirects

8.1.2.  Host ARP Requests

8.1.3.  Proxy ARP

8.2.  IPv6

8.2.1.  ICMPv6 Redirects

8.2.2.  ND Neighbor Solicitation

8.2.3.  Router Advertisements

8.2.4.  Unsolicited Neighbor Advertisements

8.3.  IPvX

8.3.1.  Potential Forwarding Loop

8.3.2.  Recommendations Regarding Setting Priority Values

8.4.  VRRPv3 and VRRPv2 Interoperation

8.4.1.  Assumptions

8.4.2.  VRRPv3 Support of VRRPv2 Interoperation

8.4.2.1.  Interoperation Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10. IANA Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

24

24

25

25

26

26

26

26

26

27

27

27

27

28

28

28

28

28

29

29

29

29

30

31

31

31

32

34

35

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

1.  Introduction

[RFC5798]

[RFC5798]

 obsoleted

, which previously specified VRRP (version 3).

, which specified VRRP (version 2) for IPv4. VRRP specifies an election protocol that

This document defines version 3 of the Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP) for IPv4 and
IPv6. It obsoletes
[RFC3768]
dynamically assigns responsibility for a Virtual Router (refer to Section 1.7) to one of the VRRP
Routers on a LAN. The VRRP Router controlling the IPv4 or IPv6 address(es) associated with a
Virtual Router is called the Active Router, and it forwards packets routed to these IPv4 or IPv6
addresses (except for packets addressed to these addresses as described in Section 8.3.1). VRRP
Active Routers are configured with virtual IPv4 or IPv6 addresses, and Backup Routers infer the
address family of the virtual addresses being advertised based on the IP protocol version. Within
a VRRP Router, the Virtual Routers in each of the IPv4 and IPv6 address families are independent
of one another and always treated as separate Virtual Router instances. The election process
provides dynamic failover in the forwarding responsibility should the Active Router become
unavailable.

VRRP provides a function similar to the proprietary protocols Hot Standby Router Protocol
(HSRP)

 and IP Standby Protocol

[RFC2281]

[IPSTB]
.

1.1.  Differences from RFC 5798

The following changes have been made from

[RFC5798]
:

1.

The VRRP terminology has been updated to conform to inclusive language guidelines for
IETF technologies. The IETF has designated the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) document "Guidance for NIST Staff on Using Inclusive Language in
Documentary Standards"

 for its inclusive language guidelines.

[NISTIR8366]

2.

The term for the VRRP Router assuming forwarding responsibility has been changed to
"Active Router" to be consistent with IETF inclusive terminology. Additionally, inconsistencies
in the terminology of
corrected. Additionally, the undesirable term for attracting and dropping unreachable
packets has been changed.

 for both "Active Router" and "Backup Router" were

[RFC5798]

3.

Errata pertaining to the state machines in Section 6 were corrected.

4.

The checksum calculation in Section 5.2.8 has been clarified to specify precisely what is
included and that it does not include the pseudo-header for IPv4.

5.

When a VRRP advertisement is received from a lower priority VRRP Router, the Active VRRP
Router will immediately send a VRRP advertisement to assure learning bridges will bridge
the packets to the correct Ethernet segment (refer to Section 6.4.3).

6.

Appendices describing operation over legacy technologies (Fiber Distributed Data Interface
(FDDI), Token Ring, and ATM LAN Emulation) were removed.

7.

A recommendation was added indicating that IPv6 Unsolicited Neighbor Advertisements
SHOULD

 be accepted by the Active and Backup Routers (Section 8.2.4).

8.

Checking that the Maximum Advertisement Intervals match is recommended, although this
will not result in the VRRP packet being dropped (Section 7.1).

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

9.

Miscellaneous editorial changes were made for readability.

10.

The IANA Considerations section was augmented to include all the IPv4/IPv6 multicast
address allocations and Ethernet Media Access Control (MAC) address allocations.

1.2.  A Note on Terminology

This document discusses both IPv4 and IPv6 operations, and with respect to the VRRP protocol,
many of the descriptions and procedures are common. In this document, it would be less verbose
to be able to refer to "IP" to mean either "IPv4 or IPv6". However, historically, the term "IP" often
refers to IPv4. For this reason, in this specification, the term "IPvX" (where X is 4 or 6) is
introduced to mean either "IPv4" or "IPv6". In this text, where the IP version matters, the
appropriate term is used, and the use of the term "IP" is avoided.

1.3.  IPv4

There are a number of methods that an IPv4 end-host can use to determine its first-hop router
for a particular IPv4 destination. These include running (or snooping) a dynamic routing
protocol such as Routing Information Protocol (RIP)
running an ICMP router discovery client
statically configured default route.

[RFC2328]
,
, or using a

 or OSPF version 2

, running DHCPv4

[RFC2131]

[RFC2453]

[RFC1256]

Running a dynamic routing protocol on every end-host may not be feasible for a number of
reasons, including administrative overhead, processing overhead, security issues, or the lack of
an implementation for a particular platform. Neighbor or router discovery protocols may
require active participation by all hosts on a network, requiring large timer values to reduce
protocol overhead associated with the protocol packet processing for each host. This can result in
a significant delay in the detection of an unreachable router, and such a delay may introduce
unacceptably long periods of unreachability for the default route.

The use of a manually configured default route (either via a static route or DHCPv4) is quite
popular since it minimizes configuration and processing overhead on the end-host and is
supported by virtually every IPv4 implementation. However, this creates a single point of failure.
Loss of the default router results in a catastrophic event, isolating all end-hosts that are unable to
detect an available alternate path.

The Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP) is designed to eliminate the single point of
failure inherent in a network utilizing default routing. VRRP specifies an election protocol that
dynamically assigns responsibility for a Virtual Router to one of the VRRP Routers on a LAN. The
VRRP Router controlling the IPv4 address(es) associated with a Virtual Router is called the Active
Router and forwards packets sent to these IPv4 addresses. The election process provides dynamic
failover of the forwarding responsibility should the Active Router become unavailable. Any of
the Virtual Router's IPv4 addresses on a LAN can then be used as the default first-hop router by
end-hosts. The advantage gained from using VRRP is a higher availability default path without
requiring configuration of dynamic routing or a router discovery protocol on every end-host.

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

1.4.  IPv6

IPv6 hosts on a LAN will usually learn about one or more default routers by receiving Router
. The Router
Advertisements sent using the IPv6 Neighbor Discovery (ND) protocol
Advertisements are periodically multicast at a rate such that the hosts can take more than 10
seconds to learn the default routers on a LAN. They are not sent frequently enough to rely on the
absence of the Router Advertisement to detect router failures.

[RFC4861]

The ND protocol includes a mechanism called Neighbor Unreachability Detection to detect the
failure of a neighbor node (router or host) or the forwarding path to a neighbor. This is done by
sending unicast ND Neighbor Solicitation messages to the neighbor node. To reduce the overhead
of sending Neighbor Solicitations, they are only sent to neighbors to which the node is actively
sending traffic and only after there has been no positive indication that the router is up for a
period of time. Using the default parameters in ND, it can take a host more than 10 seconds to
learn that a router is unreachable before it will switch to another default router. This delay
would be very noticeable to users and cause some transport protocol implementations to time
out.

While the Neighbor Unreachability Detection could be made quicker by configuring the timer
intervals to be more aggressive (note that the current lower limit for this is 5 seconds), this would
have the downside of significantly increasing the overhead of ND traffic, especially when there
are many hosts all trying to determine the reachability of one or more routers.

The Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol for IPv6 provides a much faster switchover to an
alternate default router than can be obtained using standard ND procedures. Using VRRP, a
Backup Router can take over for a failed default router in around three seconds (using VRRP
default parameters). This is done without any interaction with the hosts and a minimum amount
of VRRP traffic.

1.5.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.6.  Scope

The remainder of this document describes the features, design goals, and theory of operation of
VRRP. The message formats, protocol processing rules, and state machine that guarantee
convergence to a single Active Router are presented. Finally, operational issues related to MAC
address mapping, handling of ARP messages, generation of ICMP redirect messages, and security
issues are addressed.

1.7.  Definitions

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

VRRP Router

Virtual Router

A router running the Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol. It may
participate as one or more Virtual Routers.

An abstract object managed by VRRP that acts as a default router for
hosts on a shared LAN. It consists of a Virtual Router Identifier and
either a set of associated IPv4 addresses or a set of associated IPv6
addresses across a common LAN. A VRRP Router can serve as a Backup
Router for one or more Virtual Routers.

Virtual Router Identifier

An integer value (1-255) identifying an instance of a Virtual Router on

a LAN. Also referred by its acronym, VRID.

Virtual Router MAC Address

The multicast Ethernet MAC address used for VRRP advertisements

for a VRID. Refer to Section 7.3.

IP Address Owner

Primary IP Address

The VRRP Router that has the Virtual Router's IPvX address(es) as real
interface address(es). This is the router that, when up, will respond to
packets addressed to one of these IPvX addresses for ICMP pings, TCP
connection requests, etc.

In IPv4, an IPv4 address selected from the set of real interface
addresses. One possible selection algorithm is to always select the first
address. In IPv4, VRRP advertisements are always sent using the
primary IPv4 address as the source of the IPv4 packet. In IPv6, the link-
local address of the interface over which the packet is transmitted is
used.

Forwarding Responsibility

The responsibility for forwarding packets sent to the IPvX

Active Router

address(es) associated with the Virtual Router. This includes receiving
packets sent to the Virtual Router MAC address, forwarding these
packets based on the local Routing Information Base (RIB) / Forwarding
Information Base (FIB), answering ARP requests for the IPv4
address(es), and answering ND requests for the IPv6 address(es).

The VRRP Router that is assuming the responsibility of forwarding
packets sent to the IPvX address(es) associated with the Virtual Router,
answering ARP requests for the IPv4 address(es), and answering ND
requests for the IPv6 address(es). Note that if the IPvX address owner is
available, then it will always be the Active Router.

Backup Router(s)

The set of VRRP Routers available to assume forwarding responsibility
for a Virtual Router should the current Active Router fail.

Drop Route

A route installed in the Routing Information Base (RIB) that will result
in traffic with a destination address that matches the route to be
dropped.

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

2.  Required Features

This section describes the set of features that were considered mandatory and that guided the
design of VRRP.

2.1.  IPvX Address Backup

Backup of an IPvX address or addresses is the primary function of VRRP. When providing
election of an Active Router and the additional functionality described below, the protocol should
strive to:

•

minimize the duration of unreachability,

•

minimize the steady-state bandwidth overhead and processing complexity,

•

function over a wide variety of multiaccess LAN technologies capable of supporting IPvX
traffic,

•

allow multiple Virtual Routers on a network for load-balancing, and

•

support multiple logical IPvX subnets on a single LAN segment.

2.2.  Preferred Path Indication

A simple model of Active Router election among a set of redundant routers is to treat each router
with equal preference and claim victory after converging to any router as the Active Router.
However, there are likely to be many environments where there is a distinct preference (or
range of preferences) among the set of redundant routers. For example, this preference may be
based upon access link cost or speed, router performance or reliability, or other policy
considerations. The protocol should allow the expression of this relative path preference in an
intuitive manner and guarantee Active Router convergence to the most preferred Virtual Router
currently available.

2.3.  Minimization of Unnecessary Service Disruptions

Once Active Router election has been performed, any unnecessary transition between Active and
Backup Routers can result in a disruption of service. The protocol should ensure that, after Active
Router election, no state transition is triggered by any Backup Router of equal or lower
preference as long as the Active Router continues to function properly.

Some environments may find it beneficial to avoid the state transition triggered when a router
that is preferred over the current Active Router becomes available. It may be useful to support
an override of the immediate restoration to the preferred path.

2.4.  Efficient Operation over Extended LANs

Sending IPvX packets, i.e., sending either IPv4 or IPv6, on a multiaccess LAN requires mapping
from an IPvX address to a MAC address. The use of the Virtual Router MAC address in an
extended LAN employing learning bridges can have a significant effect on the bandwidth

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

overhead of packets sent to the Virtual Router. If the Virtual Router MAC address is never used as
the source address in a link-level frame, then the MAC address location is never learned,
resulting in flooding of all packets sent to the Virtual Router. To improve the efficiency in this
environment, the protocol should do the following:

1.

Use the Virtual Router MAC address as the source in a packet sent by the Active Router to
trigger MAC learning.

2.

Trigger a message immediately after transitioning to the Active Router to update MAC
learning.

3.

Trigger periodic messages from the Active Router to maintain the MAC address cache.

2.5.  Sub-second Operation for IPv4 and IPv6

Sub-second detection of Active Router failure is needed in both IPv4 and IPv6 environments.
Earlier work proposed that sub-second operation was for IPv6, and this specification leverages
that earlier approach for both IPv4 and IPv6.

One possible problematic scenario that may occur when using a small Advertisement_Interval
(refer to Section 6.1) is when a VRRP Router is generating more packets than it can transmit, and
a queue builds up on the VRRP Router. When this occurs, it is possible that packets being
transmitted onto the VRRP-protected LAN could see a larger queueing delay than the smallest
Advertisement_Interval. In this case, the Active_Down_Interval (refer to Section 6.1) may be
small enough that normal queuing delays might cause a Backup Router to conclude that the
Active Router is down and, hence, promote itself to Active Router. Very shortly afterwards, the
delayed VRRP packets from the original Active Router cause the VRRP Router to switch back to
Backup Router. Furthermore, this process can repeat many times per second, causing a
significant disruption of traffic. To mitigate this problem, giving VRRP packets priority on egress
interface queues should be considered. If the Active Router observes that this is occurring, it
SHOULD

 log the problem (subject to rate-limiting).

3.  VRRP Overview

VRRP specifies an election protocol to provide the Virtual Router function described earlier. All
protocol messaging is performed using either IPv4 or IPv6 multicast datagrams. Thus, the
protocol can operate over a variety of multiaccess LAN technologies supporting IPvX multicast.
Each link of a VRRP Virtual Router has a single well-known MAC address allocated to it. This
document currently only details the mapping to networks using an IEEE 802 48-bit MAC address.
The Virtual Router MAC address is used as the source in all periodic VRRP messages sent by the
Active Router to enable MAC learning by Layer 2 (L2) bridges on an extended LAN.

A Virtual Router is defined by its Virtual Router Identifier (VRID) and a set of either IPv4 or IPv6
address(es). A VRRP Router may associate a Virtual Router with its real address on an interface.
The scope of each Virtual Router is restricted to a single LAN. A VRRP Router may be configured
with additional Virtual Router mappings and priority for Virtual Routers it is willing to back up.
The mapping between the VRID and its IPvX address(es) must be coordinated among all VRRP
Routers on a LAN.

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

There is no restriction against reusing a VRID with a different address mapping on different
LANs, nor is there a restriction against using the same VRID number for a set of IPv4 addresses
and a set of IPv6 addresses. However, these are two different Virtual Routers.

To minimize network traffic, only the Active Router for each Virtual Router sends periodic VRRP
Advertisement messages. A Backup Router will not attempt to preempt the Active Router unless
the Backup Router has a higher priority. This eliminates service disruption unless a more
preferred path becomes available. It's also possible to administratively prohibit Active Router
preemption attempts. The only exception is that a VRRP Router will always become the Active
Router for any Virtual Router associated with address(es) it owns. If the Active Router becomes
unavailable, then the highest-priority Backup Router will transition to the Active Router after a
short delay, providing a controlled transition of Virtual Router responsibility with minimal
service interruption.

The VRRP protocol design provides rapid transition from the Backup Router to the Active Router
to minimize service interruption and incorporates optimizations that reduce protocol complexity
while guaranteeing controlled Active Router transition for typical operational scenarios. These
optimizations result in an election protocol with minimal runtime state requirements, minimal
active protocol states, and a single message type and sender. The typical operational scenarios
are defined to be two redundant routers and/or distinct path preferences for each router. A side
effect when these assumptions are violated, i.e., more than two redundant paths with equal
preference, is that duplicate packets may be forwarded for a brief period during Active Router
election. However, the typical scenario assumptions are likely to cover the vast majority of
deployments, loss of the Active Router is infrequent, and the expected duration for Active Router
election convergence is quite small (< 4 seconds when using the default Advertisement_Interval
and configurable to < 1/25 second). Thus, the VRRP optimizations represent significant
simplifications in the protocol design while incurring an insignificant probability of brief
network disruption.

4.  Sample VRRP Networks

4.1.  Sample VRRP Network 1

The following figure shows a simple network with two VRRP Routers implementing one Virtual
Router.

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

        +-----------+ +-----------+
        | Router-1  | | Router-2  |
        |(AR VRID=1)| |(BR VRID=1)|
        |           | |           |
VRID=1  +-----------+ +-----------+
IPvX A------>*            *<---------IPvX B
             |            |
             |            |
-------------+------------+--+-----------+-----------+-----------+
                             ^           ^           ^           ^
                             |           |           |           |
     Default Router          |           |           |           |
     IPvX Addresses ---> (IPvX A)    (IPvX A)    (IPvX A)    (IPvX A)
                             |           |           |           |
                    IPvX H1->*  IPvX H2->*  IPvX H3->*  IPvX H4->*
                          +--+--+     +--+--+     +--+--+     +--+--+
                          |  H1 |     |  H2 |     |  H3 |     |  H4 |
                          +-----+     +-----+     +--+--+     +--+--+
Legend:
      --+---+---+-- = Ethernet
                  H = Host computer
                 AR = Active Router
                 BR = Backup Router
                 *  =  IPvX Address: X is 4 everywhere in IPv4 case
                                     X is 6 everywhere in IPv6 case
                 (IPvX) = Default Router for hosts

Figure 1: Sample VRRP Network 1

In the IPv4 case, i.e., IPvX is IPv4 everywhere in the figure, each router is permanently assigned
an IPv4 address on the LAN interface (Router-1 is assigned IPv4 A and Router-2 is assigned IPv4
B), and each host installs a default route (learned through DHCPv4 or via a configured static
route) through one of the routers (in this example, they all use Router-1's IPv4 A).

In the IPv6 case, i.e., IPvX is IPv6 everywhere in the figure, each router has its own link-local IPv6
address on the LAN interface and a link-local IPv6 address per VRID that is shared with the other
routers that serve the same VRID. Each host learns a default route from Router Advertisements
through one of the routers (in this example, they all use Router-1's IPv6 Link-Local A).

In an IPv4 VRRP environment, each router supports reception and transmission for the exact
same IPv4 address. Router-1 is said to be the IPv4 address owner of IPv4 A, and Router-2 is the
IPv4 address owner of IPv4 B. A Virtual Router is then defined by associating a unique identifier
(the VRID) with the address owned by Router-1.

In an IPv6 VRRP environment, each router will support transmission and reception for the IPv6
addresses associated with the VRID. Router-1 is said to be the IPv6 address owner of IPv6 A, and
Router-2 is the IPv6 address owner of IPv6 B. A Virtual Router is then defined by associating a
unique identifier (the VRID) with the address owned by Router-1.

Finally, in both the IPv4 and IPv6 cases, the VRRP protocol manages Virtual Router failover to a
Backup Router.

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

The IPvX example above shows a Virtual Router configured to cover the IPvX address owned by
Router-1 (VRID=1, IPvX_Address=A). When VRRP is enabled on Router-1 for VRID=1, it will assert
itself as the Active Router, with priority = 255, since it is the IPvX address owner for the Virtual
Router IPvX address. When VRRP is enabled on Router-2 for VRID=1, it will transition to the
Backup Router, with priority = 100 (the default priority is 100), since it is not the IPvX address
owner. If Router-1 should fail, then the VRRP protocol will transition Router-2 to the Active
Router, temporarily taking over forwarding responsibility for IPvX A to provide uninterrupted
service to the hosts.

Note that in both cases in this example, IPvX B is not backed up and it is only used by Router-2 as
its interface address. In order to back up IPvX B, a second Virtual Router must be configured.
This is shown in the next section.

4.2.  Sample VRRP Network 2

The following figure shows a configuration with two Virtual Routers with the hosts splitting their
traffic between them.

        +-----------+  +-----------+
        |  Router-1 |  | Router-2  |
        |(AR VRID=1)|  |(BR VRID=1)|
        |(BR VRID=2)|  |(AR VRID=2)|
VRID=1  +-----------+  +-----------+  VRID=2
IPvX A ----->*             *<---------- IPvX B
             |             |
             |             |
   ----------+-------------+-+-----------+-----------+-----------+
                             ^           ^           ^           ^
                             |           |           |           |
     Default Router          |           |           |           |
     IPvX Addresses ---> (IPvX A)    (IPvX A)    (IPvX B)    (IPvX B)
                             |           |           |           |
                    IPvX H1->*  IPvX H2->*  IPvX H3->*  IPvX H4->*
                          +--+--+     +--+--+     +--+--+     +--+--+
                          |  H1 |     |  H2 |     |  H3 |     |  H4 |
                          +-----+     +-----+     +--+--+     +--+--+

 Legend:
      ---+---+---+--  =  Ethernet
                   H  =  Host computer
                  AR  =  Active Router
                  BR  =  Backup Router
                   *  =  IPvX Address: X is 4 everywhere in IPv4 case
                                       X is 6 everywhere in IPv6 case
              (IPvX)  =  Default Router for hosts

Figure 2: Sample VRRP Network 2

In the IPv4 example above, i.e., IPvX is IPv4 everywhere in the figure, half of the hosts have
configured a static default route through Router-1's IPv4 A, and half are using Router-2's IPv4 B.
The configuration of Virtual Router VRID=1 is exactly the same as in the first example (see

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

Section 4.1), and a second Virtual Router has been added to cover the IPv4 address owned by
Router-2 (VRID=2, IPv4_Address=B). In this case, Router-2 will assert itself as the Active Router for
VRID=2, while Router-1 will act as a Backup Router. This scenario demonstrates a deployment
providing load-splitting when both routers are available, while providing full redundancy for
robustness.

In the IPv6 example above, i.e., IPvX is IPv6 everywhere in the figure, half of the hosts are using a
default route through Router-1's IPv6 A, and half are using Router-2's IPv6 B. The configuration of
Virtual Router VRID=1 is exactly the same as in the first example (see Section 4.1), and a second
Virtual Router has been added to cover the IPv6 address owned by Router-2 (VRID=2,
IPv6_Address=B). In this case, Router-2 will assert itself as the Active Router for VRID=2, while
Router-1 will act as a Backup Router. This scenario demonstrates a deployment providing load-
splitting when both routers are available while providing full redundancy for robustness.

Note that the details of load-balancing are out of scope of this document. However, in a case
where the servers need different weights, it may not make sense to rely on Router
Advertisements alone to balance the host traffic between the routers

[RFC4311]
.

5.  Protocol

The purpose of the VRRP Advertisement is to communicate to all VRRP Routers the priority,
Maximum Advertisement Interval, and IPvX addresses of the Active Router associated with the
VRID.

When VRRP is protecting an IPv4 address, VRRP packets are sent encapsulated in IPv4 packets.
They are sent to the IPv4 multicast address assigned to VRRP.

When VRRP is protecting an IPv6 address, VRRP packets are sent encapsulated in IPv6 packets.
They are sent to the IPv6 multicast address assigned to VRRP.

5.1.  VRRP Packet Format

This section defines the format of the VRRP packet and the relevant fields in the IPvX header (in
conjunction with the address family).

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                    IPv4 Fields or IPv6 Fields                 |
 ...                                                             ...
 |                                                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |Version| Type  | Virtual Rtr ID|   Priority    |IPvX Addr Count|
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |Reserve| Max Advertise Interval|          Checksum             |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               |
 +                                                               +
 |                       IPvX Address(es)                        |
 +                                                               +
 +                                                               +
 +                                                               +
 +                                                               +
 |                                                               |
 +                                                               +
 |                                                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: IPv4/IPv6 VRRP Advertisement Packet Format

5.1.1.  IPv4 Field Descriptions

5.1.1.1.  Source Address

This is the primary IPv4 address of the interface from which the packet is being sent.

5.1.1.2.  Destination Address

The IPv4 multicast address as assigned by the IANA for VRRP is:

224.0.0.18

This is a link-local scope multicast address. Routers
destination address, regardless of its TTL.

MUST NOT

 forward a datagram with this

5.1.1.3.  TTL

The TTL
MUST

 discard the packet

[RFC5082]
.

MUST

 be set to 255. A VRRP Router receiving a packet with the TTL not equal to 255

5.1.1.4.  Protocol

The IPv4 protocol number assigned by the IANA for VRRP is 112 (decimal).

5.1.2.  IPv6 Field Descriptions

5.1.2.1.  Source Address

This is the IPv6 link-local address of the interface from which the packet is being sent.

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

5.1.2.2.  Destination Address

The IPv6 multicast address assigned by the IANA for VRRP is:

ff02:0:0:0:0:0:0:12

This is a link-local scope multicast address. Routers
destination address, regardless of its Hop Limit.

MUST NOT

 forward a datagram with this

5.1.2.3.  Hop Limit

The Hop Limit
to 255

MUST

 discard the packet

[RFC5082]
.

MUST

 be set to 255. A VRRP Router receiving a packet with the Hop Limit not equal

5.1.2.4.  Next Header

The IPv6 Next Header protocol assigned by the IANA for VRRP is 112 (decimal).

5.2.  VRRP Field Descriptions

5.2.1.  Version

The Version field specifies the VRRP protocol version of this packet. This document defines
version 3.

5.2.2.  Type

The Type field specifies the type of this VRRP packet. The only packet type defined in this version
of the protocol is:

1

- ADVERTISEMENT

A packet with unknown type

MUST

 be discarded.

5.2.3.  Virtual Rtr ID (VRID)

The Virtual Rtr ID field identifies the Virtual Router for which this packet is reporting status.

5.2.4.  Priority

The Priority field specifies sending the VRRP Router's priority for the Virtual Router. Higher
values indicate higher priority. This field is an 8-bit unsigned integer field.

The priority value for the VRRP Router that owns the IPvX address associated with the Virtual
Router

 be 255 (decimal).

MUST

VRRP Routers backing up a Virtual Router
default priority value for VRRP Routers backing up a Virtual Router is 100 (decimal). Refer to
Section 8.3.2 for recommendations on setting the priority.

 use priority values between 1-254 (decimal). The

MUST

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

The priority value zero (0) has special meaning, indicating that the current Active Router has
stopped participating in VRRP. This is used to trigger Backup Routers to quickly transition to the
Active Router without having to wait for the current Active_Down_Interval (refer to Section 6.1).

5.2.5.  IPvX Addr Count

The IPvX Addr Count field is the number of either IPv4 addresses or IPv6 addresses contained in
this VRRP advertisement. The minimum value is 1. If the received count is 0, the VRRP
advertisement

 be ignored.

MUST

5.2.6.  Reserve

The Reserve field

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and ignored on reception.

5.2.7.  Maximum Advertisement Interval (Max Advertise Interval)

The Max Advertise Interval is a 12-bit field that indicates the time interval (in centiseconds)
between advertisements. The default is 100 centiseconds (1 second).

Note that higher-priority Active Routers with slower transmission rates than their Backup
Routers are unstable. This is because lower-priority Backup Routers configured to faster rates
could join the LAN and decide they should be Active Routers before they have heard anything
from the higher-priority Active Router with a slower rate. When this happens, it is temporary,
i.e., once the lower-priority node does hear from the higher-priority Active Router, it will
relinquish Active Router status.

5.2.8.  Checksum

The Checksum field is used to detect data corruption in the VRRP message.

For both the IPv4 and IPv6 address families, the checksum is the 16-bit one's complement of the
one's complement sum of the VRRP message. For computing the checksum, the Checksum field is
set to zero. See

 for more details.

[RFC1071]

For the IPv4 address family, the checksum calculation only includes the VRRP message starting
with the Version field and ending after the last IPv4 address (refer to Section 5.2).

For the IPv6 address family, the checksum calculation also includes a prepended "pseudo-
header", as defined in
should be set to 112 (decimal) for VRRP.

. The Next Header field in the "pseudo-header"

Section 8.1 of [RFC8200]

5.2.9.  IPvX Address(es)

This refers to one or more IPvX addresses associated with the Virtual Router. The number of
addresses included is specified in the IPvX Addr Count field. These fields are used for
troubleshooting misconfigured routers. If more than one address is sent, it is recommended that
all routers be configured to send these addresses in the same order to simplify comparisons.

For IPv4 addresses, this refers to one or more IPv4 addresses that are backed up by the Virtual
Router.

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

For IPv6, the first address

MUST

 be the IPv6 link-local address associated with the Virtual Router.

This field contains either one or more IPv4 addresses or one or more IPv6 addresses. The address
family of the addresses, IPv4 or IPv6 but not both,
header address family.

 be the same as the VRRP packet's IPvX

MUST

6.  Protocol State Machine

6.1.  Parameters per Virtual Router

VRID

Priority

IPv4_Addresses

IPv6_Addresses

Virtual Router Identifier. Configurable value in the range 1-255
(decimal). There is no default.

Priority value to be used by this VRRP Router in Active Router
election for this Virtual Router. The value of 255 (decimal) is
reserved for the router that owns the IPvX address associated with
the Virtual Router. The value of 0 (zero) is reserved for the Active
Router to indicate it is relinquishing responsibility for the Virtual
Router. The range 1-254 (decimal) is available for VRRP Routers
backing up the Virtual Router. Higher values indicate higher
priorities. The default value is 100 (decimal).

One or more IPv4 addresses associated with this Virtual Router.
Configured list of addresses with no default.

One or more IPv6 addresses associated with this Virtual Router.
Configured list of addresses with no default. The first address
be the Link-Local address associated with the Virtual Router.

MUST

IPvX_Addresses

Refer to either the IPv4 or IPv6 address associated with this Virtual
Router (see IPv4_Addresses and IPv6_Addresses above).

Advertisement_Interval

Time interval between VRRP Advertisements (centiseconds) sent by
this Virtual Router. Default is 100 centiseconds (1 second).

Active_Adver_Interval

Advertisement interval contained in VRRP Advertisements received
from the Active Router (in centiseconds). This value is saved by
Virtual Routers in the Backup state and used to compute
Skew_Time (as specified in Section 8.3.2) and Active_Down_Interval.
The initial value is the same as Advertisement_Interval.

Skew_Time

Time to skew Active_Down_Interval in centiseconds. Calculated as:

(((256 - Priority) * Active_Adver_Interval) / 256)

Active_Down_Interval

Time interval for the Backup Router to declare the Active Router
down (centiseconds). Calculated as:

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

Preempt_Mode

Accept_Mode

(3 * Active_Adver_Interval) + Skew_Time

Controls whether a (starting or restarting) higher-priority Backup
Router preempts a lower-priority Active Router. Values are True to
allow preemption and False to prohibit preemption. Default is True.

Note: The exception is that the router that owns the IPvX address
associated with the Virtual Router always preempts, independent of
the setting of this flag.

Controls whether a Virtual Router in Active state will accept packets
addressed to the address owner's IPvX address as its own even if it
is not the IPvX address owner. The default is False. Deployments
that rely on, for example, pinging the address owner's IPvX address
may wish to configure Accept_Mode to True.

Note: IPv6 Neighbor Solicitations and Neighbor Advertisements
MUST NOT

 be dropped when Accept_Mode is False.

Virtual_Router_MAC_Address

The MAC address used for the source MAC address in VRRP
advertisements and advertised in ARP/ND messages as the MAC
address to use for IPvX_Addresses.

6.2.  Timers

Active_Down_Timer

Timer that fires when a VRRP Advertisement has not been received for
Active_Down_Interval (Backup Routers only).

Adver_Timer

Timer that fires to trigger transmission of a VRRP Advertisement based
on the Advertisement_Interval (Active Routers only).

6.3.  State Transition Diagram

                   +---------------+
        +--------->|               |<-------------+
        |          |  Initialize   |              |
        |   +------|               |----------+   |
        |   |      +---------------+          |   |
        |   |                                 |   |
        |   V                                 V   |
   +---------------+                       +---------------+
   |               |---------------------->|               |
   |    Active     |                       |    Backup     |
   |               |<----------------------|               |
   +---------------+                       +---------------+

Figure 4: State Transition Diagram

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

6.4.  State Descriptions

In the state descriptions below, the state names are identified by {state-name}, and the packets
are identified by all-uppercase characters.

A VRRP Router implements an instance of the state machine for each Virtual Router in which it is
participating.

6.4.1.  Initialize

The purpose of this state is to wait for a Startup event, that is, an implementation-defined
mechanism that initiates the protocol once it has been configured. The configuration mechanism
is out of scope for this specification.

If a Startup event is received, then:

•

If the Priority = 255, i.e., the router owns the IPvX address(es) associated with the Virtual
Router, then:

◦
Send an ADVERTISEMENT
◦
If the protected IPvX address is an IPv4 address, then:

▪
For each IPv4 address associated with the Virtual Router, broadcast a gratuitous ARP
message containing the Virtual Router MAC address and with the target link-layer
address set to the Virtual Router MAC address.

◦
else // IPv6

▪
For each IPv6 address associated with the Virtual Router, send an unsolicited ND
Neighbor Advertisement with the Router Flag (R) set, the Solicited Flag (S) clear, the
Override flag (O) set, the target address set to the IPv6 address of the Virtual Router, and
the target link-layer address set to the Virtual Router MAC address.

endif // was protected address IPv4?
◦
Set the Adver_Timer to Advertisement_Interval
◦
◦
Transition to the {Active} state

•

else // Router is not the address owner

Set the Active_Adver_Interval to Advertisement_Interval
◦
◦
Set the Active_Down_Timer to Active_Down_Interval
◦
Transition to the {Backup} state

•

endif // was priority 255?

endif // Startup event was received

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

6.4.2.  Backup

The purpose of the {Backup} state is to monitor the availability and state of the Active Router.
The Solicited-Node multicast address

 is referenced in the pseudocode below.

[RFC4291]

While in the {Backup} state, a VRRP Router

MUST

 do the following:

•

If the protected IPvX address is an IPv4 address, then:

◦  MUST NOT
It
Router.

 respond to ARP requests for the IPv4 address(es) associated with the Virtual

•

else // protected address is IPv6

 respond to ND Neighbor Solicitation messages for the IPv6 address(es)

◦  MUST NOT
It
associated with the Virtual Router.
◦  MUST NOT
It

 send ND Router Advertisement messages for the Virtual Router.

•

endif // was protected address IPv4?

•  MUST

It
Router MAC address.

 discard packets with a destination link-layer MAC address equal to the Virtual

•  MUST NOT

It
Router.

 accept packets addressed to the IPvX address(es) associated with the Virtual

•

If a Shutdown event is received, then:

Cancel the Active_Down_Timer
◦
◦
Transition to the {Initialize} state

•

endif // Shutdown event received

•

If the Active_Down_Timer fires, then:

◦
Send an ADVERTISEMENT
◦
If the protected IPvX address is an IPv4 address, then:

▪
For each IPv4 address associated with the Virtual Router, broadcast a gratuitous ARP
message containing the Virtual Router MAC address and with the target link-layer
address set to the Virtual Router MAC address.

◦
else // IPv6

▪
Compute and join the Solicited-Node multicast address
address(es) associated with the Virtual Router.
▪
For each IPv6 address associated with the Virtual Router, send an unsolicited ND
Neighbor Advertisement with the Router Flag (R) set, the Solicited Flag (S) clear, the
Override flag (O) set, the target address set to the IPv6 address of the Virtual Router, and
the target link-layer address set to the Virtual Router MAC address.

 for the IPv6

[RFC4291]

endif // was protected address IPv4?
◦
◦
Set the Adver_Timer to Advertisement_Interval

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

◦
Transition to the {Active} state

•

endif // Active_Down_Timer fired

•

If an ADVERTISEMENT is received, then:

◦
If the Priority in the ADVERTISEMENT is 0, then:

▪
Set the Active_Down_Timer to Skew_Time

◦
else // priority non-zero

▪
If Preempt_Mode is False, or if the Priority in the ADVERTISEMENT is greater than or
equal to the local Priority, then:

▪
Set the Active_Adver_Interval to the Max Advertise Interval contained in the
ADVERTISEMENT
Recompute the Skew_Time
▪
▪
Recompute the Active_Down_Interval
▪
Set the Active_Down_Timer to Active_Down_Interval

▪
else // preempt was true and priority was less than the local priority

▪
Discard the ADVERTISEMENT

▪
endif // preempt test

◦
endif // was priority 0?

•

endif // was advertisement received?

endwhile // {Backup} state

6.4.3.  Active

While in the {Active} state, the router functions as the forwarding router for the IPvX address(es)
associated with the Virtual Router.

Note that in the {Active} state, the Preempt_Mode Flag is not considered.

While in the {Active} state, a VRRP Router

MUST

 do the following:

•

If the protected IPvX address is an IPv4 address, then:

◦  MUST
It
Router.

 respond to ARP requests for the IPv4 address(es) associated with the Virtual

•

else // IPv6

 be a member of the Solicited-Node multicast address for the IPv6 address(es)

◦  MUST
It
associated with the Virtual Router.
◦  MUST
It
IPv6 address(es) associated with the Virtual Router.
◦  MUST
It

 send ND Router Advertisements for the Virtual Router.

 respond to ND Neighbor Solicitation messages (with the Router Flag (R) set) for the

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

◦
If Accept_Mode is False:

▪  MUST NOT
It

 drop IPv6 Neighbor Solicitations and Neighbor Advertisements.

•

endif // IPv4?

•  MUST

It
Router MAC address.

 forward packets with a destination link-layer MAC address equal to the Virtual

 accept packets addressed to the IPvX address(es) associated with the Virtual Router if

•  MUST

It
it is the IPvX address owner or if Accept_Mode is True. Otherwise, it
packets.

MUST NOT

 accept these

•

If a Shutdown event is received, then:

◦
Cancel the Adver_Timer
Send an ADVERTISEMENT with Priority = 0
◦
◦
Transition to the {Initialize} state

•

endif // shutdown received

•

If the Adver_Timer fires, then:

◦
Send an ADVERTISEMENT
◦
Reset the Adver_Timer to Advertisement_Interval

•

endif // advertisement timer fired

•

If an ADVERTISEMENT is received, then:

◦
If the Priority in the ADVERTISEMENT is 0, then:

▪
Send an ADVERTISEMENT
▪
Reset the Adver_Timer to Advertisement_Interval

◦
else // priority was non-zero

▪
If the Priority in the ADVERTISEMENT is greater than the local Priority or the Priority in
the ADVERTISEMENT is equal to the local Priority and the primary IPvX address of the
sender is greater than the local primary IPvX address (based on an unsigned integer
comparison of the IPvX addresses in network byte order), then:

▪
Cancel Adver_Timer
▪
Set the Active_Adver_Interval to the Max Advertise Interval contained in the
ADVERTISEMENT
▪
Recompute the Skew_Time
Recompute the Active_Down_Interval
▪
Set the Active_Down_Timer to Active_Down_Interval
▪
▪
Transition to the {Backup} state

▪
else // new Active Router logic

▪
Discard the ADVERTISEMENT

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

▪
Send an ADVERTISEMENT immediately to assert the {Active} state to the sending VRRP
Router and to update any learning bridges with the correct Active VRRP Router path.

▪
endif // new Active Router detected

◦
endif // was priority zero?

•

endif // advert received

endwhile // in {Active} state

Note: VRRP packets are transmitted with the Virtual Router MAC address as the source MAC
address to ensure that learning bridges correctly determine the LAN segment to which the
Virtual Router is attached.

7.  Sending and Receiving VRRP Packets

7.1.  Receiving VRRP Packets

The following functions must be performed when a VRRP packet is received:

•

If the received packet is an IPv4 packet, then:

◦  MUST
It

 verify that the IPv4 TTL is 255.

•

else // IPv6 VRRP packet received

◦  MUST
It

 verify that the IPv6 Hop Limit is 255.

•

endif

•  MUST

It

 verify that the VRRP version is 3.

•  MUST

It

 verify that the VRRP packet type is 1 (ADVERTISEMENT).

•  MUST

It
fields and the IPvX address).

 verify that the received packet contains the complete VRRP packet (including fixed

•  MUST

It

 verify the VRRP checksum.

•  MUST

It
not the IPvX address owner (Priority = 255 (decimal)).

 verify that the VRID is configured on the receiving interface and the local router is

If any one of the above checks fails, the receiver
(subject to rate-limiting), and

 discard the packet,
 indicate via network management that an error occurred.

SHOULD

 log the event

MUST

MAY

SHOULD

 also verify that the Max Advertise Interval in the received VRRP packet

A receiver
matches the Advertisement_Interval configured for the VRID. Instability can occur with differing
intervals (refer to Section 5.2.7). If this check fails, the receiver
rate-limiting) and

 log the event (subject to
 indicate via network management that a misconfiguration was detected.

SHOULD

MAY

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

 also verify that "IPvX Addr Count" and the list of IPvX address(es) match the IPvX

MAY

A receiver
address(es) configured for the VRID. If this check fails, the receiver
limiting) the event and
detected.

MAY

 indicate via network management that a misconfiguration was

SHOULD

 log (subject to rate-

7.2.  Transmitting VRRP Packets

The following operations

MUST

 be performed when transmitting a VRRP packet:

•

Fill in the VRRP packet fields with the appropriate Virtual Router configuration state

•

Compute the VRRP checksum

•

Set the source MAC address to the Virtual Router MAC address

•

If the protected address is an IPv4 address, then:

◦
Set the source IPv4 address to the interface's primary IPv4 address

•

else // IPv6

◦
Set the source IPv6 address to the interface's link-local IPv6 address

•

endif

•

Set the IPvX protocol to VRRP

•

Send the VRRP packet to the VRRP IPvX multicast group

Note: VRRP packets are transmitted with the Virtual Router MAC address as the source MAC
address to ensure that learning bridges correctly determine the LAN segment to which the
Virtual Router is attached.

7.3.  Virtual Router MAC Address

The Virtual Router MAC address associated with a Virtual Router is an IEEE 802 MAC address
[RFC9542]

 in the following format:

IPv4 case: 00-00-5E-00-01-{VRID} (in hex, in network byte order)

The first three octets are derived from the IANA's Organizationally Unique Identifier (OUI). The
next two octets (00-01) indicate the address block assigned to the VRRP protocol for the IPv4
protocol. {VRID} is the Virtual Router Identifier. This mapping provides for up to 255 IPv4 VRRP
Routers on a LAN.

IPv6 case: 00-00-5E-00-02-{VRID} (in hex, in network byte order)

The first three octets are derived from the IANA's OUI. The next two octets (00-02) indicate the
address block assigned to the VRRP protocol for the IPv6 protocol. {VRID} is the Virtual Router
Identifier. This mapping provides for up to 255 IPv6 VRRP Routers on a LAN.

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

7.4.  IPv6 Interface Identifiers

[RFC7217]

 specifies that

[RFC8064]
in IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC)
NOT
algorithms in

. The Virtual Router MAC
 be used for the Net_Iface parameter used in the Interface Identifier (IID) derivation

 be used as the default scheme for generating a stable address

[RFC8981]
.

[RFC7217]

[RFC4862]

MUST

 and

This VRRP specification describes how to advertise and resolve the VRRP Router's IPv6 link-local
address and other associated IPv6 addresses into the Virtual Router MAC address.

8.  Operational Issues

8.1.  IPv4

8.1.1.  ICMP Redirects

ICMP redirects can be used normally when VRRP is running among a group of routers. This
allows VRRP to be used in environments where the topology is not symmetric.

The IPv4 source address of an ICMP redirect should be the address that the end-host used when
making its next-hop routing decision. If a VRRP Router is acting as the Active Router for Virtual
Router(s) containing address(es) it does not own, then it must determine to which Virtual Router
the packet was sent when selecting the redirect source address. One method to deduce the
Virtual Router used is to examine the destination MAC address in the packet that triggered the
redirect.

It may be useful to disable redirects for specific cases where VRRP is being used to load-share
traffic among a number of routers in a symmetric topology.

8.1.2.  Host ARP Requests

When a host sends an ARP request for one of the Virtual Router IPv4 addresses, the Active Router
 respond to the ARP request with an ARP response that indicates the Virtual Router MAC
MUST
address for the Virtual Router. Note that the source address of the Ethernet frame of this ARP
response is the physical MAC address of the physical router. The Active Router
respond with its physical MAC address in the ARP response. This allows the host to always use
the same MAC address, regardless of the current Active Router.

MUST NOT

When a VRRP Router restarts or boots, it
SHOULD NOT
MAC address for an IPv4 address for which it is the IPv4 address owner (as defined in Section
1.7), and it should only send ARP messages that include Virtual Router MAC addresses.

 send any ARP messages using its physical

This entails the following:

•

When configuring an interface, Active Routers
containing the Virtual Router MAC address for each IPv4 address on that interface.

 broadcast a gratuitous ARP message

SHOULD

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

•

At system boot, when initializing interfaces for VRRP operation, gratuitous ARP messages
 be delayed until both the IPv4 address and the Virtual Router MAC address are
MUST
configured.

•

When, for example, Secure Shell (SSH) access to a particular VRRP Router is required, an
IPv4 address known to belong to that router

 be used.

SHOULD

8.1.3.  Proxy ARP

 advertise the Virtual
If Proxy ARP is to be used on a VRRP Router, then the VRRP Router
Router MAC address in the Proxy ARP message. Doing otherwise could cause hosts to learn the
real MAC address of the VRRP Router.

MUST

8.2.  IPv6

8.2.1.  ICMPv6 Redirects

ICMPv6 redirects can be used normally when VRRP is running among a group of routers
[RFC4443]
e.g., the VRRP Routers do not connect to the same destinations.

. This allows VRRP to be used in environments where the topology is not symmetric,

 be the address that the end-host used
The IPv6 source address of an ICMPv6 redirect
when making its next-hop routing decision. If a VRRP Router is acting as the Active Router for
Virtual Router(s) containing address(es) it does not own, then it has to determine to which
Virtual Router the packet was sent when selecting the redirect source address. A method to
deduce the Virtual Router used is to examine the destination MAC address in the packet that
triggered the redirect.

SHOULD

8.2.2.  ND Neighbor Solicitation

MUST

When a host sends an ND Neighbor Solicitation message for a Virtual Router IPv6 address, the
Active Router
MAC address for the Virtual Router. The Active Router
address. This allows the host to always use the same MAC address, regardless of the current
Active Router.

 respond to the ND Neighbor Solicitation message with the Virtual Router

 respond with its physical MAC

MUST NOT

When an Active Router sends an ND Neighbor Solicitation message for a host's IPv6 address, the
Active Router
source link-layer address option in the Neighbor Solicitation message. It
physical MAC address in the source link-layer address option.

 include the Virtual Router MAC address for the Virtual Router if it sends a

MUST NOT

 use its

MUST

When a VRRP Router restarts or boots, it
MAC address for the IPv6 address it owns and it should only send ND messages that include
Virtual Router MAC addresses.

 send any ND messages with its physical

SHOULD NOT

This entails the following:

•

When configuring an interface, Active Routers
Advertisement message containing the Virtual Router MAC address for the IPv6 address on
that interface.

 send an unsolicited ND Neighbor

SHOULD

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

•

At system boot, when initializing interfaces for VRRP operation, all ND Router
Advertisements, ND Neighbor Advertisements, and ND Neighbor Solicitation messages
be delayed until both the IPv6 address and the Virtual Router MAC address are configured.

MUST

Note that on a restarting Active Router where the VRRP protected address is an interface address,
i.e., the address owner, Duplicate Address Detection may fail, as the Backup Router
that it owns the address. One solution is to not run Duplicate Address Detection in this case.

 answer

MAY

8.2.3.  Router Advertisements

When a Backup VRRP Router has become the Active Router for a Virtual Router, it is responsible
for sending Router Advertisements for the Virtual Router, as specified in Section 6.4.3. The
 be configured to send the same Router Advertisement options as the
Backup Routers
address owner.

MUST

Router Advertisement options that advertise special services, e.g., Home Agent Information
Option, that are present in the address owner
the Backup Routers are prepared to assume these services in full and have a complete and
synchronized database for this service.

 be sent by the address owner unless

SHOULD NOT

8.2.4.  Unsolicited Neighbor Advertisements

A VRRP Router acting as either an IPv6 Active Router or Backup Router
Unsolicited Neighbor Advertisements and update the corresponding neighbor cache
Since these are sent to the IPv6 all-nodes multicast address (ff02::1)
routers multicast address (ff02::2), they will be received. Unsolicited Neighbor Advertisements
are sent both in the case where the link-level addresses change
neighbor discovery by first-hop routers
order for Unsolicited Neighbor Advertisements to update the corresponding neighbor cache.

. Additional configuration may be required in

 and for gratuitous

 or the IPv6 all-

[RFC4861]
.

[RFC4861]

[RFC4861]

[RFC9131]

SHOULD

 accept

8.3.  IPvX

8.3.1.  Potential Forwarding Loop

If it is not the address owner, a VRRP Router
address for which it becomes the Active Router. Forwarding these packets would result in
unnecessary traffic. Also, in the case of LANs that receive packets they transmit, this can result in
a forwarding loop that is only terminated when the IPvX TTL expires.

 forward packets addressed to the IPvX

SHOULD NOT

One mechanism for VRRP Routers to avoid these forwarding loops is to add/delete a host Drop
Route for each non-owned IPvX address when transitioning to/from the Active state.

8.3.2.  Recommendations Regarding Setting Priority Values

A priority value of 255 designates a particular router as the "IPvX address owner" for the VRID.
VRRP Routers with priority 255 will, as soon as they start up, preempt all lower-priority routers.
For a VRID, only a single VRRP Router on the link
multiple VRRP Routers advertising priority 255 are detected, the condition
(subject to rate-limiting). If no VRRP Router has this priority, and preemption is disabled, then no
preemption will occur.

 be configured with priority 255. If
 be logged

SHOULD

SHOULD

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

In order to avoid two or more Backup Routers simultaneously becoming Active Routers after the
previous Active Router fails or is shut down, all Virtual Routers
different priorities and with sufficient differences in the priorities so that lower priority Backup
Routers do not transition to the Active state before receiving an advertisement from the highest
priority Backup Router when it transitions to the Active Router. If multiple VRRP Routers
advertising the same priority are detected, this condition
rate-limiting).

 be logged as a warning (subject to

 be configured with

SHOULD

MAY

Since the Skew_Time is reduced as the priority is increased, faster convergence can be obtained
by using a higher priority for the preferred Backup Router. However, with multiple Backup
Routers, the priorities should have sufficient differences, as previously recommended.

8.4.  VRRPv3 and VRRPv2 Interoperation

8.4.1.  Assumptions

1.

VRRPv2 and VRRPv3 interoperation is optional.

2.

Mixing VRRPv2 and VRRPv3 should only be done when transitioning from VRRPv2 to
VRRPv3. Mixing the two versions should not be considered a permanent solution.

8.4.2.  VRRPv3 Support of VRRPv2 Interoperation

As mentioned above, this support is intended for upgrade scenarios and is
for permanent deployments.

NOT RECOMMENDED

An implementation
VRRPv2 and VRRPv3 advertisements.

MAY

 implement a configuration flag that tells it to listen for and send both

When a Virtual Router is configured this way and is the Active Router, it
the configured rate, even if it is sub-second.

MUST

 send both types at

When a Virtual Router is configured this way and is the Backup Router, it
on the rate advertised by the Active Router. In the case of a VRRPv2 Active Router, this means it
MUST

 translate the timeout value it receives (in seconds) into centiseconds. Also, a Backup Router

 time out based

MUST

 ignore VRRPv2 advertisements from the current Active Router if it is also receiving
 report when a VRRPv3 Active Router is not sending VRRPv2

SHOULD
VRRPv3 packets from it. It
packets, as this suggests they don't agree on whether they're supporting VRRPv2 interoperation.

MAY

8.4.2.1.  Interoperation Considerations

8.4.2.1.1.  Slow, High-Priority Active Routers

See also Section 5.2.7, "Maximum Advertisement Interval (Max Advertise Interval)".

The VRRPv2 Active Router interacting with a sub-second VRRPv3 Backup Router is the most
important example of this.

A VRRPv2 implementation
implementation with which it is interoperating if the VRRPv2 or VRRPv3 router's advertisement
rate is sub-second.

 be given a higher priority than a VRRPv2 or VRRPv3

SHOULD NOT

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

8.4.2.1.2.  Overwhelming VRRPv2 Backups

It seems possible that a VRRPv3 Active Router sending at centisecond rates could potentially
overwhelm a VRRPv2 Backup Router with potentially non-deterministic results.

In this upgrade case, a deployment should initially run the VRRPv3 Active Routers with lower
frequencies, e.g., 100 centiseconds, until the VRRPv2 routers are upgraded. Then, once the
deployment has verified that VRRPv3 is working properly, the VRRPv2 support may be disabled
and the desired sub-second rates may be configured.

9.  Security Considerations

VRRP for IPvX does not currently include any type of authentication. Earlier versions of the VRRP
specification included several types of authentication, ranging from no authentication to strong
authentication. Operational experience and further analysis determined that these did not
provide sufficient security to overcome the vulnerability of misconfigured secrets, causing
multiple Active Routers to be elected. Due to the nature of the VRRP protocol, even if VRRP
messages are cryptographically protected, it does not prevent hostile nodes from behaving as if
they are an Active Router, creating multiple Active Routers. Authentication of VRRP messages
could have prevented a hostile node from causing all properly functioning routers from going
into the Backup state. However, having multiple Active Routers can cause as much disruption as
no routers, which authentication cannot prevent. Also, even if a hostile node could not disrupt
VRRP, it can disrupt ARP/ND and create the same effect as having all routers go into the Backup
state.

Some L2 switches provide the capability to filter out, for example, ARP and/or ND messages from
end-hosts on a switch-port basis. This mechanism could also filter VRRP messages from switch
ports associated with end-hosts and can be considered for deployments with untrusted hosts.

It should be noted that these attacks are not worse and are a subset of the attacks that any node
attached to a LAN can do independently of VRRP. The kind of attacks a malicious node on a LAN
can perform include:

•

promiscuously receiving packets for any router's MAC address,

•

sending packets with the router's MAC address as the source MAC address in the L2 header
to tell the L2 switches to send packets addressed to the router to the malicious node instead
of the router,

•

sending redirects to tell hosts to send their traffic somewhere else,

•

sending unsolicited ND replies,

•

answering ND requests, etc.

All of these can be done independently of implementing VRRP. VRRP does not add to these
vulnerabilities, and most of these vulnerabilities are addressed independently, e.g., SEcure
Neighbor Discovery (SEND)

[RFC3971]
.

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

VRRP includes a mechanism (setting IPv4 TTL or IPv6 Hop Limit to 255 and checking the value on
receipt) that protects against VRRP packets being injected from another remote network
[RFC5082]

. This limits most vulnerabilities to attacks on the local network.

VRRP does not provide any confidentiality. Confidentiality is not necessary for the correct
operation of VRRP, and there is no information in the VRRP messages that must be kept secret
from other nodes on the LAN.

In the context of IPv6 operation, if SEND is deployed, VRRP is compatible with the "trust anchor"
[RFC3971]
and "trust anchor or CGA" modes of SEND
Active and Backup Routers the same prefix delegation in the certificates so that Active and
Backup Routers advertise the same set of subnet prefixes. However, the Active and Backup
Routers should have their own key pairs to avoid private key sharing.

. The SEND configuration needs to give the

Also in the context of IPv6 operation, it is
in

Section 2.3 of [RFC9099]

 be followed.

RECOMMENDED

 that the link-level security guidelines

10.  IANA Considerations

[RFC5798]
IANA has updated all IANA registry references to
document. The individual IANA references are listed below.

 to references to RFC 9568, i.e., this

The value 112 is assigned to VRRP in the "Assigned Internet Protocol Numbers" registry.

In the "Local Network Control Block (224.0.0.0 - 224.0.0.255 (224.0.0/24))" registry of the "IPv4
Multicast Address Space Registry"
224.0.0.18 for VRRP.

, IANA has assigned the IPv4 multicast address

[RFC5771]

In the "Link-Local Scope Multicast Addresses" registry of the "IPv6 Multicast Address Space
Registry"
ff02:0:0:0:0:0:0:12 for VRRP for IPv6.

, IANA has assigned the IPv6 link-local scope multicast address

[RFC3307]

In the "IANA MAC ADDRESS BLOCK" registry
unicast addresses as follows (in hexadecimal):

[RFC9542]

, IANA has assigned blocks of Ethernet

Addresses

Usage

Reference

00-01-00 to 00-01-FF

VRRP (Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol)

RFC 9568

00-02-00 to 00-02-FF

VRRP IPv6 (Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol IPv6)

RFC 9568

Table 1

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

[RFC2119]

[RFC3307]

[RFC4291]

[RFC4443]

[RFC4861]

[RFC5082]

[RFC5771]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

[RFC9542]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Haberman, B. "Allocation Guidelines for IPv6 Multicast Addresses" RFC 3307
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3307>
DOI 10.17487/RFC3307
.

, August 2002,

,

,

Hinden, R.
10.17487/RFC4291

S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>
.

,
, February 2006,

 and

,

, and

Conta, A. Deering, S.
,
(ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD 89 RFC
4443 DOI 10.17487/RFC4443
,
rfc4443>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

M. Gupta, Ed. "Internet Control Message Protocol

, March 2006,

,

,

.

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

.

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
,
<https://
, September 2007,

,

Gill, V. Heasley, J. Meyer, D. Savola, P., Ed.
TTL Security Mechanism (GTSM)" RFC 5082 DOI 10.17487/RFC5082
,
2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5082>

, and
,

,

,

.

C. Pignataro "The Generalized

,

, October

Cotton, M. Vegoda, L.
,
Address Assignments" BCP 51 RFC 5771 DOI 10.17487/RFC5771
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5771>
.

, and
,

D. Meyer "IANA Guidelines for IPv4 Multicast

,

,

, March 2010,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

.

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2017,

,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Abley, J.
Documentation Usage for IEEE 802 Parameters" BCP 141 RFC 9542 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9542>
10.17487/RFC9542
.

Y. Li "IANA Considerations and IETF Protocol and

, April 2024,

, and

,

,

,

,

11.2.  Informative References

[IPSTB]

[NISTIR8366]

Higginson, P.
Failover in IP Networks" Digital Technical Journal, Volume 9, Number 3

M. Shand "Development of Router Clusters to Provide Fast

 and

, 1997.

,

,

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Guidance for NIST Staff
on Using Inclusive Language in Documentary Standards," NISTIR 8366 DOI
10.6028/NIST.IR.8366

<https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8366>

, April 2021,

,
.

,

,

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

[RFC1071]

[RFC1256]

[RFC2131]

[RFC2281]

[RFC2328]

[RFC2338]

[RFC2453]

[RFC3768]

[RFC3971]

[RFC4311]

[RFC4862]

[RFC5798]

[RFC7217]

[RFC8064]

Braden, R. Borman, D.
,
RFC 1071 DOI 10.17487/RFC1071
info/rfc1071>

, and

,

.

C. Partridge "Computing the Internet checksum"

,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, September 1988,

Deering, S., Ed. "ICMP Router Discovery Messages" RFC 1256 DOI 10.17487/
RFC1256

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1256>

, September 1991,

,

,

,

.

Droms, R. "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol" RFC 2131 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2131

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2131>

,
, March 1997,

,

,

.

,

,

Li, T. Cole, B. Morton, P.
RFC 2281 DOI 10.17487/RFC2281
rfc2281>

, and

,
.

,

D. Li "Cisco Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP)"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 1998,

,

Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

,

,

.

, April 1998,

Knight, S. Weaver, D. Whipple, D. Hinden, R. Mitzel, D. Hunt, P. Higginson, P.
,
Shand, M.
, and
10.17487/RFC2338

,
A. Lindem "Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol" RFC 2338 DOI

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2338>

, April 1998,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Malkin, G. "RIP Version 2" STD 56 RFC 2453 DOI 10.17487/RFC2453
,
1998,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2453>

,

.

,

, November

Hinden, R., Ed. "Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP)" RFC 3768 DOI
10.17487/RFC3768

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3768>
.

, April 2004,

,

,

,

Arkko, J., Ed. Kempf, J. Zill, B.
(SEND)" RFC 3971 DOI 10.17487/RFC3971
editor.org/info/rfc3971>

, and

,

,

,

.

P. Nikander "SEcure Neighbor Discovery

,

, March 2005,

<https://www.rfc-

Hinden, R.
10.17487/RFC4311

 and

D. Thaler "IPv6 Host-to-Router Load Sharing" RFC 4311 DOI

,

,

,

, November 2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4311>

.

,

Thomson, S. Narten, T.
, and
Autoconfiguration" RFC 4862 DOI 10.17487/RFC4862
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4862>

T. Jinmei "IPv6 Stateless Address
,

,

,

.

, September 2007,

<https://

,

Nadas, S., Ed. "Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP) Version 3 for IPv4
and IPv6" RFC 5798 DOI 10.17487/RFC5798
editor.org/info/rfc5798>

<https://www.rfc-

, March 2010,

,

,

.

,

Gont, F. "A Method for Generating Semantically Opaque Interface Identifiers
with IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC)" RFC 7217 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7217>
10.17487/RFC7217

, April 2014,

,

,

.

,

Gont, F. Cooper, A. Thaler, D.
, and
Interface Identifiers" RFC 8064 DOI 10.17487/RFC8064
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8064>

,

,

,

.

W. Liu "Recommendation on Stable IPv6

, February 2017,

<https://

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

[RFC8981]

[RFC9099]

[RFC9131]

[VRRP-IPv6]

,

Gont, F. Krishnan, S. Narten, T.
for Stateless Address Autoconfiguration in IPv6" RFC 8981 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8981

R. Draves "Temporary Address Extensions
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8981>

, February 2021,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Vyncke, É. Chittimaneni, K. Kaeo, M.
Considerations for IPv6 Networks" RFC 9099 DOI 10.17487/RFC9099
,
2021,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9099>

E. Rey "Operational Security

, and

,

,

.

, August

,

Linkova, J. "Gratuitous Neighbor Discovery: Creating Neighbor Cache Entries on
First-Hop Routers" RFC 9131 DOI 10.17487/RFC9131
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9131>

, October 2021,

<https://

,

,

.

J. Cruz "Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol for IPv6" Work in

,

,

 and

Hinden, R.
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-vrrp-ipv6-spec-08
,
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-vrrp-ipv6-spec-08>

.

, 5 March 2007,

<https://

Acknowledgments

The IPv6 text in this specification is based on
D. Weaver D. Whipple R. Hinden D. Mitzel P. Hunt P. Higginson M. Shand
,
,

. The authors of

[RFC2338]

[RFC2338]
, and

 are
S. Knight
A. Lindem
.

,

,

,

,

,

[VRRP-IPv6]

The authors of
Deering Radia Perlman Danny Mitzel Mukesh Gupta Don Provan Mark Hollinger John Cruz
,
,
and

 would also like to thank
,

Erik Nordmark Thomas Narten Steve

 for their helpful suggestions.

Melissa Johnson

,
,

,
,

,

,

. The authors of that specification would
The IPv4 text in this specification is based on
like to thank
Glen Zorn Michael Lane Clark Bremer Hal Peterson Tony Li Barbara Denny Joel
,
,
Halpern Steve M. Bellovin Thomas Narten Rob Montgomery Rob Coltun Radia Perlman Russ
,
Housley Harald Alvestrand Ned Freed Ted Hardie Bert Wijnen Bill Fenner
 for
their comments and suggestions.

Alex Zinin

[RFC3768]

, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Steve Nadas
Thanks to
document that eventually became

[RFC5798]
.

 for his work merging/editing

[RFC3768]

 and

[VRRP-IPv6]

 into the

,

,

,

,

Stewart Bryant Sasha Vainshtein Pascal Thubert Alexander Okonnikov Ben Niven-
, and
Gyan Mishra Paul
,
 for discussions related to the removal of legacy technology appendices.
 and
Sasha Vainshtein

Thanks to
,
Jenkins Tim Chown Mališa Vučinić Russ White Donald Eastlake Dave Thaler Eric Kline
,
 for comments on the current document (RFC 9568). Thanks to
Vijay Gurbani
Jon Rosen
Congdon
, and
Dhruv Dhody
Thanks to
IANA section. Thanks to
validation. Thanks to
SLAAC.

 for comments and suggestions for improving the
 for recommending "Maximum Advertisement Interval"
 for discussions and updates related to IPv6

Donald Eastlake

Fernando Gont

Tim Chown

 and

,

,

,

,

Special thanks to
document (RFC 9568).

Quentin Armitage

 for a detailed review and extensive comments on the current

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9568

VRRP Version 3

April 2024

Authors' Addresses

Acee Lindem
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.
301 Midenhall Way
Cary NC 27513
United States of America
Email:

,

 acee.ietf@gmail.com

Aditya Dogra
Cisco Systems
Sarjapur Outer Ring Road
Bangalore 560103
Karnataka
India
Email:

 addogra@cisco.com

Lindem & Dogra

Standards Track

Page 35

