Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9894
Standards Track
January 2026
2070-1721

B. Cheng
MIT Lincoln Laboratory

D. Wiggins

L. Berger
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.

D. Eastlake 3rd, Ed.
Independent

RFC 9894
Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) Diffserv
Aware Credit Window Extension

Abstract

This document defines an extension to the Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) that enables
a Diffserv aware credit window scheme for destination-specific and shared flow control.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9894
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9894

DLEP DA Credit Extension

January 2026

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Key Words

2.  Extension Usage and Identification

3.  Management Considerations

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

6

The Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) is defined in
exchange of link-related control information between DLEP peers. DLEP peers consist of a
modem and a router. DLEP defines a base set of mechanisms as well as support for possible
extensions. This document defines one such extension.

[RFC8175]

. The protocol provides the

The DLEP specification does not include any flow control capability. Various flow control
techniques are theoretically possible with DLEP. This document defines a DLEP extension that
provides a Diffserv-based flow control mechanism for traffic sent from a router to a modem.
Flow control is provided using one or more logical "credit windows", each of which will typically
be supported by an associated virtual or physical queue. A router will use traffic flow
classification information provided by the modem to identify which traffic is associated with
each credit window. Credit windows may be shared or dedicated on a per-flow basis. See
[RFC9895]
2.3.1 of [RFC9892]
the Ethernet information takes precedence.

, when both Diffserv and Ethernet traffic classification are specified for a flow,

 for an Ethernet-based version of credit window flow control. As specified in

Section

This document uses the traffic classification and credit window flow control mechanisms
[RFC9893]
defined in
destinations and Differentiated Services Code Points (DSCPs)

 to provide credit-window-based flow control based on DLEP
[RFC2475]
. The defined mechanism

[RFC9892]

 and

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9894

DLEP DA Credit Extension

January 2026

allows for credit windows to be shared across traffic sent to multiple DLEP destinations and
DSCPs, or used exclusively for traffic sent to a particular destination and/or DSCP. The extension
also supports the "wildcard" matching of any DSCP.

The extension defined in this document is referred to as the "Diffserv Aware Credit Window" or,
more simply, the "DA Credit" extension. The reader should be familiar with both the traffic
classification and credit window flow control mechanisms defined in

[RFC9893]
.

[RFC9892]

 and

This document defines a new DLEP Extension Type value that is used to indicate support for the
extension. See Section 2.

1.1.  Key Words

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Extension Usage and Identification

. To indicate that the Diffserv Aware Credit Window Extension is to be
MUST

The extension defined in this document is built on the mechanisms and processing defined in
[RFC9893]
[RFC9892]
 and
used, an implementation
in the Extensions Supported Data Item (see
Data Item is sent and processed according to
use of the Diffserv Aware Credit Window Extension
the Diffserv Traffic Classification Sub-Data Item, and all related processing defined in
and

 include the Diffserv Aware Credit Window Extension Type value
). The Extensions Supported

 support all message types, Data Items,
[RFC9892]

. Any implementation that indicates the

Section 13.6 of [RFC8175]

[RFC9893]
.

[RFC8175]

MUST

The Diffserv Aware Credit Window Extension Type value is 6. See Section 5.

3.  Management Considerations

This section provides several network management guidelines for implementations supporting
the Diffserv Aware Credit Window Extension.

MUST

Section 13.6 of [RFC8175]

 be declared using the Extensions Supported

If this extension is supported, that support
Data Item (see
 be emitted by a DLEP participant unless such support was specified in the
MUST NOT
initialization message received from its peer. The use of the extension defined in this document
SHOULD
using a proprietary Command-Line Interface or by implementing a YANG module. The definition
of the YANG module is out of scope for this document.

 be configurable on both modems and routers. That configuration can be implemented

). Diffserv Aware Credit Window Extension Data Items

Modems

SHOULD

 support the configuration of mapping a DSCP to a credit window (queue).

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9894

DLEP DA Credit Extension

January 2026

Modems
to a router.

MAY

 support the configuration of the number of credit windows (queues) to advertise

Routers may have limits on the number of queues that they can support and limits on supported
credit window combinations. Per-destination queues might not be supported at all. When credit
window information provided by a modem exceeds the capabilities of a router, the router
 reset the
SHOULD
session and indicate that the extension is not supported. In either case, any mismatch in
capabilities
as user interface messages or error logging.

 be reported to the user via normal network management mechanisms, such

 use a subset of the provided credit windows. Alternatively, a router

SHOULD

MAY

In all cases, if credit windows are in use, traffic for which credits are not available
sent to the modem by the router.

MUST NOT

 be

4.  Security Considerations

This document defines a DLEP extension that uses DLEP mechanisms and the credit window
flow control mechanisms defined in
Considerations sections of those documents.

. See also the Security

[RFC9892]

[RFC9893]

 and

The defined extension is exposed to vulnerabilities similar to existing DLEP messages and
discussed in the Security Considerations section of
, such as an injected message
resizing a credit window to a value that results in a denial of service. The security mechanisms
documented in

 can be applied equally to the mechanism defined in this document.

[RFC8175]

[RFC8175]

) are provided. Note that wildcards may be convenient for matching a number of

Wildcards for matching Priority Code Point (PCP) and VLAN Identifier (VID) fields (see
[RFC9895]
packet flows but could inadvertently match unexpected flows or new flows that appear after the
wildcard matching has been set up. It is therefore
unless needed.

 that wildcards not be used

RECOMMENDED

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned the following code point in the "Extension Type Values" registry in the
"Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP) Parameters" registry group:

Code Description

6

Diffserv Aware Credit Window

Table 1: Extension Type Value

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9894

DLEP DA Credit Extension

January 2026

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8175]

[RFC9892]

[RFC9893]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Ratliff, S. Jury, S. Satterwhite, D. Taylor, R.
Exchange Protocol (DLEP)" RFC 8175 DOI 10.17487/RFC8175
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8175>

B. Berry "Dynamic Link
, June 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

<https://

,

Cheng, B. Wiggins, D. Berger, L.
Protocol (DLEP) Traffic Classification Data Item" RFC 9892 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9892

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9892>

D. Fedyk, Ed. "Dynamic Link Exchange

, January 2026,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Cheng, B. Wiggins, D. Ratliff, S. Berger, L.
,
Exchange Protocol (DLEP) Credit-Based Flow Control Messages and Data Items"
RFC 9893 DOI 10.17487/RFC9893
, January 2026,
rfc9893>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

E. Kinzie, Ed. "Dynamic Link
,

, and

,
.

,

6.2.  Informative References

[RFC2475]

[RFC9895]

,

Blake, S. Black, D. Carlson, M. Davies, E. Wang, Z.
Architecture for Differentiated Services" RFC 2475 DOI 10.17487/RFC2475
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2475>
December 1998,

W. Weiss "An

, and
,

,
,

,

,

,

.

,

Wiggins, D. Berger, L.
,
Protocol (DLEP) IEEE 802.1Q Aware Credit Window Extension" RFC 9895 DOI
10.17487/RFC9895

D. Eastlake 3rd, Ed. "Dynamic Link Exchange
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9895>

, January 2026,

, and

,

,

.

Acknowledgments

Many useful comments were received from contributors to the MANET Working Group, notably
Ronald in 't Velt
.

We had the honor of working too briefly with
contribution to the IETF and publication of the first and definitive open-source DLEP
implementation have been critical to the acceptance of DLEP. We mourn his passing on
November 26, 2023. We wish to recognize his guidance, leadership, and professional excellence.
We were fortunate to benefit from his leadership and friendship. He shall be missed.

 on this and related DLEP work. His

David Wiggins

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9894

DLEP DA Credit Extension

January 2026

Authors' Addresses

Bow-Nan Cheng
MIT Lincoln Laboratory
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
244 Wood Street
Lexington MA 02421-6426
United States of America
Email:
bcheng@ll.mit.edu

,

David Wiggins

Lou Berger
LabN Consulting, L.L.C.
Email:

lberger@labn.net

editor
)

Donald E. Eastlake 3rd (
Independent
2386 Panoramic Circle
Apopka FL 32703
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

+1-508-333-2270
d3e3e3@gmail.com

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

