Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9190
5216
Standards Track
February 2022
2070-1721
J. Preuß Mattsson
Ericsson

M. Sethi
Ericsson

RFC 9190
EAP-TLS 1.3: Using the Extensible Authentication
Protocol with TLS 1.3

Abstract

The Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP), deﬁned in RFC 3748, provides a standard
mechanism for support of multiple authentication methods. This document speciﬁes the use of
EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3 while remaining backwards compatible with existing implementations of
EAP-TLS. TLS 1.3 provides signiﬁcantly improved security and privacy, and reduced latency when
compared to earlier versions of TLS. EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3 (EAP-TLS 1.3) further improves security
and privacy by always providing forward secrecy, never disclosing the peer identity, and by
mandating use of revocation checking when compared to EAP-TLS with earlier versions of TLS.
This document also provides guidance on authentication, authorization, and resumption for EAP-
TLS in general (regardless of the underlying TLS version used). This document updates RFC 5216.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9190

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements and Terminology

2.  Protocol Overview

2.1.  Overview of the EAP-TLS Conversation

2.1.1.  Authentication

2.1.2.  Ticket Establishment

2.1.3.  Resumption

2.1.4.  Termination

2.1.5.  No Peer Authentication

2.1.6.  Hello Retry Request

2.1.7.  Identity

2.1.8.  Privacy

2.1.9.  Fragmentation

2.2.  Identity Veriﬁcation

2.3.  Key Hierarchy

2.4.  Parameter Negotiation and Compliance Requirements

2.5.  EAP State Machines

3.  Detailed Description of the EAP-TLS Protocol

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

5.1.  Security Claims

5.2.  Peer and Server Identities

5.3.  Certiﬁcate Validation

5.4.  Certiﬁcate Revocation

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

5.5.  Packet Modiﬁcation Attacks

5.6.  Authorization

5.7.  Resumption

5.8.  Privacy Considerations

5.9.  Pervasive Monitoring

5.10. Discovered Vulnerabilities

5.11. Cross-Protocol Attacks

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative references

Appendix A.  Updated References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC3748]

[RFC5216]

, provides a standard

The Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP), deﬁned in
mechanism for support of multiple authentication methods. EAP-TLS
 speciﬁes an EAP
authentication method with certiﬁcate-based mutual authentication utilizing the TLS handshake
protocol for cryptographic algorithms and protocol version negotiation and establishment of
shared secret keying material. EAP-TLS is widely supported for authentication and key
establishment in IEEE 802.11
networks using IEEE 802.1X
authentication in 3GPP 5G
methods such as Flexible Authentication via Secure Tunneling (EAP-FAST)
Transport Layer Security (EAP-TTLS)
(TEAP)
Authentication Protocol (PEAP)

, as well as vendor-speciﬁc EAP methods such as the Protected Extensible
, depend on TLS and EAP-TLS.

 (Wi-Fi) and IEEE 802.1AE
 and it's the default mechanism for certiﬁcate-based

, Tunneled
, the Tunnel Extensible Authentication Protocol

[IEEE-802.11]
[IEEE-802.1X]
[TS.33.501]

 networks. Many other EAP

 and MulteFire

[IEEE-802.1AE]

[MulteFire]

[RFC5281]

[RFC7170]

[RFC4851]

 (MACsec)

[PEAP]

[RFC8996]

[RFC5216]

[RFC5246]

[RFC2246]

 references TLS 1.0

 and TLS 1.1
. TLS 1.0 and 1.1 are formally deprecated and prohibited from being negotiated or
. Weaknesses found in TLS 1.2 as well as new requirements for security, privacy,
, which obsoletes TLS 1.2

EAP-TLS
1.2
used
and reduced latency have led to the speciﬁcation of TLS 1.3
[RFC5246]
a diﬀerent message ﬂow, diﬀerent handshake messages, diﬀerent key schedule, diﬀerent cipher

. TLS 1.3 is in large part a complete remodeling of the TLS handshake protocol including

 but can also work with TLS

[RFC4346]

[RFC8446]

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

suites, diﬀerent resumption mechanism, diﬀerent privacy protection, and diﬀerent record
padding. This means that signiﬁcant parts of the normative text in the previous EAP-TLS
speciﬁcation
resumption, privacy handling, and key derivation need to be appropriately addressed for EAP-
TLS with TLS 1.3.

 are not applicable to EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3. Therefore, aspects such as

[RFC5216]

[RFC5216]

 to deﬁne how to use EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3. When older TLS

This document updates
versions are negotiated, RFC 5216 applies to maintain backwards compatibility. However, this
document does provide additional guidance on authentication, authorization, and resumption
for EAP-TLS regardless of the underlying TLS version used. This document only describes
diﬀerences compared to
updated as speciﬁed in Appendix A. All message ﬂows are example message ﬂows speciﬁc to TLS
1.3 and do not apply to TLS 1.2. Since EAP-TLS couples the TLS handshake state machine with the
EAP state machine, it is possible that new versions of TLS will cause incompatibilities that
introduce failures or security issues if they are not carefully integrated into the EAP-TLS protocol.
Therefore, implementations
versions are explicitly enabled by the administrator.

 limit the maximum TLS version they use to 1.3, unless later

. When EAP-TLS is used with TLS 1.3, some references are

[RFC5216]

MUST

This document speciﬁes EAP-TLS 1.3 and does not specify how other TLS-based EAP methods use
TLS 1.3. The speciﬁcation for how other TLS-based EAP methods use TLS 1.3 is left to other
documents such as

[TLS-EAP-TYPES]

.

In addition to the improved security and privacy oﬀered by TLS 1.3, there are other signiﬁcant
beneﬁts of using EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3. Privacy, which in EAP-TLS means that no information
about the underlying peer identity is disclosed, is mandatory and achieved without any
additional round trips. Revocation checking is mandatory and simpliﬁed with Online Certiﬁcate
Status Protocol (OCSP) stapling, and TLS 1.3 introduces more possibilities to reduce fragmentation
when compared to earlier versions of TLS.

1.1.  Requirements and Terminology

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

Readers are expected to be familiar with the terms and concepts used in EAP-TLS
TLS
term EAP-TLS server is used for the entity acting as EAP server and TLS server.

. The term EAP-TLS peer is used for the entity acting as EAP peer and TLS client. The

[RFC5216]

[RFC8446]

 and

This document follows the terminology from
main secret and the exporter_master_secret is renamed to the exporter_secret.

[TLS-bis]

 where the master secret is renamed to the

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

2.  Protocol Overview

2.1.  Overview of the EAP-TLS Conversation

This section updates
discussion.

Section 2.1 of [RFC5216]

 by amending it in accordance with the following

If the TLS implementation correctly implements TLS version negotiation, EAP-TLS will
automatically leverage that capability. The EAP-TLS implementation needs to know which
version of TLS was negotiated to correctly support EAP-TLS 1.3 as well as to maintain backward
compatibility with EAP-TLS 1.2.

TLS 1.3 changes both the message ﬂow and the handshake messages compared to earlier versions
of TLS. Therefore, much of
 does not apply for TLS 1.3. Except for Sections
2.2 and 5.7, this update applies only when TLS 1.3 is negotiated. When TLS 1.2 is negotiated, then
[RFC5216]

Section 2.1 of [RFC5216]

 applies.

TLS 1.3 introduces several new handshake messages including HelloRetryRequest,
NewSessionTicket, and KeyUpdate. In general, these messages will be handled by the underlying
TLS libraries and are not visible to EAP-TLS; however, there are a few things to note:

•

The HelloRetryRequest is used by the server to reject the parameters oﬀered in the ClientHello
and suggest new parameters. When this message is encountered, it will increase the number
of round trips used by the protocol.

•

The NewSessionTicket message is used to convey resumption information and is covered in
Sections 2.1.2 and 2.1.3.

•

The KeyUpdate message is used to update the traﬃc keys used on a TLS connection. EAP-TLS
does not encrypt signiﬁcant amounts of data so this functionality is not needed.
Implementations
SHOULD NOT
automatically generate and process this message.

 send this message; however, some TLS libraries may

•

Early Data
MUST NOT
extension and clients

 be used in EAP-TLS. EAP-TLS servers
MUST NOT

MUST NOT
 send an EndOfEarlyData message.

 send an early_data

•

Post-handshake authentication
"post_handshake_auth" extension and Servers
authentication.

MUST NOT

 be used in EAP-TLS. Clients

 send a
 request post-handshake client

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

After receiving an EAP-Request packet with EAP-Type=EAP-TLS as described in
conversation will continue with the TLS handshake protocol encapsulated in the data ﬁelds of
EAP-Response and EAP-Request packets. When EAP-TLS is used with TLS version 1.3, the
formatting and processing of the TLS handshake
This update only lists additional and diﬀerent requirements, restrictions, and processing
compared to

 be done as speciﬁed in version 1.3 of TLS.

[RFC5216]

[RFC8446]

[RFC5216]

SHALL

 and

, the

.

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

2.1.1.  Authentication

This section updates
discussion.

Section 2.1.1 of [RFC5216]

 by amending it in accordance with the following

MUST

SHOULD

[RFC8446]

SHALL NOT

 require the EAP-TLS peer to

 be used except for resumption. The

 authenticate with a certiﬁcate and

The EAP-TLS server
authenticate with a certiﬁcate. Certiﬁcates can be of any type supported by TLS including raw
public keys. Pre-Shared Key (PSK) authentication
full handshake in EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3 always provides forward secrecy by exchange of
ephemeral "key_share" extensions in the ClientHello and ServerHello (e.g., containing Ephemeral
Elliptic Curve Diﬃe-Hellman (ECDHE) public keys). SessionID is deprecated in TLS 1.3; see
Sections 4.1.2 and 4.1.3 of
. TLS 1.3 introduced early application data that like all
application data (other than the protected success indication described below) is not used in EAP-
TLS; see
Resumption is handled as described in Section 2.1.3. As a protected success indication
the EAP-TLS server always sends TLS application data 0x00; see Section 2.5. Note that a TLS
implementation
MAY
the application data
 therefore be sent before a NewSessionTicket. TLS application data 0x00
is therefore to be interpreted as success after the EAP-Request that contains TLS application data
0x00. After the EAP-TLS server has sent an EAP-Request containing the TLS application data 0x00
and received an EAP-Response packet of EAP-Type=EAP-TLS and no data, the EAP-TLS server
sends EAP-Success.

 not allow the EAP-TLS layer to control in which order things are sent and
MAY

 for additional information on the "early_data" extension.

Section 4.2.10 of [RFC8446]

[RFC3748]

,

Figure 1 shows an example message ﬂow for a successful EAP-TLS full handshake with mutual
authentication (and neither HelloRetryRequest nor post-handshake messages are sent).

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

 EAP-TLS Peer                                      EAP-TLS Server

                                                      EAP-Request/
                             <--------                   Identity
 EAP-Response/
 Identity (Privacy-Friendly) -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <--------                 (TLS Start)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS ClientHello)            -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                                                 (TLS ServerHello,
                                          TLS EncryptedExtensions,
                                           TLS CertificateRequest,
                                                  TLS Certificate,
                                            TLS CertificateVerify,
                             <--------               TLS Finished)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS Certificate,
 TLS CertificateVerify,
 TLS Finished)               -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <-------- (TLS Application Data 0x00)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS            -------->
                             <--------                EAP-Success

Figure 1: EAP-TLS Mutual Authentication

2.1.2.  Ticket Establishment

This is a new section when compared to

[RFC5216]

.

MUST

 send one or

To enable resumption when using EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3, the EAP-TLS server
more post-handshake NewSessionTicket messages (each associated with a PSK, a PSK identity, a
ticket lifetime, and other parameters) in the initial authentication. Note that TLS 1.3
limits the ticket lifetime to a maximum of 604800 seconds (7 days) and EAP-TLS servers
respect this upper limit when issuing tickets. The NewSessionTicket is sent after the EAP-TLS
server has received the client Finished message in the initial authentication. The
NewSessionTicket can be sent in the same ﬂight as the TLS server Finished or later. The PSK
associated with the ticket depends on the client Finished and cannot be pre-computed (so as to be
sent in the same ﬂight as the TLS server Finished) in handshakes with client authentication. The
NewSessionTicket message
extension is received, then it
NewSessionTickets will likely be needed in EAP-TLS than in the usual HTTPS connection scenario.
In most cases, a single NewSessionTicket will be suﬃcient. A mechanism by which clients can
specify the desired number of tickets needed for future connections is deﬁned in
REQUESTS]

 include an "early_data" extension. If the "early_data"
 be ignored. Servers should take into account that fewer

[RFC8446]
MUST

MUST NOT

[TICKET-

MUST

.

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

Figure 2 shows an example message ﬂow for a successful EAP-TLS full handshake with mutual
authentication and ticket establishment of a single ticket.

 EAP-TLS Peer                                      EAP-TLS Server

                                                      EAP-Request/
                             <--------                   Identity
 EAP-Response/
 Identity (Privacy-Friendly) -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <--------                 (TLS Start)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS ClientHello)            -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                                                 (TLS ServerHello,
                                          TLS EncryptedExtensions,
                                           TLS CertificateRequest,
                                                  TLS Certificate,
                                            TLS CertificateVerify,
                             <--------               TLS Finished)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS Certificate,
 TLS CertificateVerify,
 TLS Finished)               -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                                            (TLS NewSessionTicket,
                             <-------- (TLS Application Data 0x00)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS            -------->
                             <--------                EAP-Success

Figure 2: EAP-TLS Ticket Establishment

2.1.3.  Resumption

This section updates
discussion.

Section 2.1.2 of [RFC5216]

 by amending it in accordance with the following

EAP-TLS is typically used with client authentication and typically fragments the TLS ﬂights into a
large number of EAP-requests and EAP-responses. Resumption signiﬁcantly reduces the number
of round trips and enables the EAP-TLS server to omit database lookups needed during a full
handshake with client authentication. TLS 1.3 replaces the session resumption mechanisms in
earlier versions of TLS with a new PSK exchange. When EAP-TLS is used with TLS version 1.3, EAP-
TLS

 use a resumption mechanism compatible with version 1.3 of TLS.

SHALL

For TLS 1.3, resumption is described in
NewSessionTicket message from the EAP-TLS server, the client can use the PSK identity associated
with the ticket to negotiate the use of the associated PSK. If the EAP-TLS server accepts it, then the

. If the client has received a

Section 2.2 of [RFC8446]

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

 that the EAP-TLS peer use resumption if it has a valid ticket that has not been used

resumed session has been deemed to be authenticated and securely associated with the prior
authentication or resumption. It is up to the EAP-TLS peer to use resumption, but it is
RECOMMENDED
before. It is left to the EAP-TLS server whether to accept resumption, but it is
 that
the EAP-TLS server accept resumption if the ticket that was issued is still valid. However, the EAP-
TLS server
 choose to require a full handshake. In the case a full handshake is required, the
negotiation proceeds as if the session was a new authentication, and the resumption attempt is
ignored. The requirements of Sections 2.1.1 and 2.1.2 then apply in their entirety. As described in
Appendix C.4 of [RFC8446]
connections. EAP-TLS peers and EAP-TLS servers
in

, reuse of a ticket allows passive observers to correlate diﬀerent

 follow the client tracking preventions

Appendix C.4 of [RFC8446]

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

MAY

.

RECOMMENDED

 to use Network Access Identiﬁers (NAIs) with the same realm during

 to use the same NAI in the resumption as was used in the original full handshake

It is
resumption and the original full handshake. This requirement allows EAP packets to be routed to
the same destination as the original full handshake. If this recommendation is not followed,
resumption is likely impossible. When NAI reuse can be done without privacy implications, it is
RECOMMENDED
[RFC7542]
speciﬁc information to associate a user's resumption attempt with the original full handshake.
However, reusing the NAI P2ZIM2F+OEVAO21nNWg2bVpgNnU=@realm enables an on-path
attacker to associate a resumption attempt with the original full handshake. The TLS PSK identity
is typically derived by the TLS implementation and may be an opaque blob without a routable
realm. The TLS PSK identity on its own is therefore unsuitable as an NAI in the Identity Response.

. For example, the NAI @realm can safely be reused since it does not provide any

Figure 3 shows an example message ﬂow for a subsequent successful EAP-TLS resumption
handshake where both sides authenticate via a PSK provisioned via an earlier NewSessionTicket
and where the server provisions a single new ticket.

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

 EAP-TLS Peer                                      EAP-TLS Server

                                                      EAP-Request/
                             <--------                   Identity
 EAP-Response/
 Identity (Privacy-Friendly) -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <--------                 (TLS Start)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS ClientHello
 + pre_shared_key)           -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                                                 (TLS ServerHello,
                                          TLS EncryptedExtensions,
                             <--------               TLS Finished,
                                             TLS NewSessionTicket)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS Finished)               -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <-------- (TLS Application Data 0x00)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS            -------->
                             <--------                EAP-Success

Figure 3: EAP-TLS Resumption

SHOULD

Section 2.2 of [RFC8446]

As speciﬁed in
 supply a "key_share" extension
, the EAP-TLS peer
when attempting resumption, which allows the EAP-TLS server to potentially decline resumption
and fall back to a full handshake. If the EAP-TLS peer did not supply a "key_share" extension when
attempting resumption, the EAP-TLS server needs to send a HelloRetryRequest to signal that
additional information is needed to complete the handshake, and the EAP-TLS peer needs to send
a second ClientHello containing that information. Providing a "key_share" and using the
"psk_dhe_ke" pre-shared key exchange mode is also important in order to limit the impact of a
key compromise. When using "psk_dhe_ke", TLS 1.3 provides forward secrecy meaning that
compromise of the PSK used for resumption does not compromise any earlier connections. The
"psk_dh_ke" key exchange mode
 be used for resumption unless the deployment has a local
requirement to allow conﬁguration of other mechanisms.

MUST

2.1.4.  Termination

This section updates
discussion.

Section 2.1.3 of [RFC5216]

 by amending it in accordance with the following

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

TLS 1.3 changes both the message ﬂow and the handshake messages compared to earlier versions
of TLS. Therefore, some normative text in
 does not apply for TLS 1.3. The
two paragraphs below replace the corresponding paragraphs in
EAP-TLS is used with TLS 1.3. The other paragraphs in
exception that SessionID is deprecated.

Section 2.1.3 of [RFC5216]

Section 2.1.3 of [RFC5216]

Section 2.1.3 of [RFC5216]

 still apply with the

 when

If the EAP-TLS peer authenticates successfully, the EAP-TLS server
packet with EAP-Type=EAP-TLS containing TLS records conforming to the version of TLS used.
The message ﬂow ends with a protected success indication from the EAP-TLS server, followed
by an EAP-Response packet of EAP-Type=EAP-TLS and no data from the EAP-TLS peer, followed
by EAP-Success from the server.

 send an EAP-Request

MUST

If the EAP-TLS server authenticates successfully, the EAP-TLS peer
message with EAP-Type=EAP-TLS containing TLS records conforming to the version of TLS
used.

 send an EAP-Response

MUST

Figures 4, 5, and 6 illustrate message ﬂows in several cases where the EAP-TLS peer or EAP-TLS
server sends a TLS Error alert message. In earlier versions of TLS, error alerts could be warnings
or fatal. In TLS 1.3, error alerts are always fatal and the only alerts sent at warning level are
"close_notify" and "user_canceled", both of which indicate that the connection is not going to
continue normally; see

[RFC8446]

.

[RFC8446]

, error alerts are not mandatory to send after a fatal error condition. Failure

In TLS 1.3
to send TLS Error alerts means that the peer or server would have no way of determining what
went wrong. EAP-TLS 1.3 strengthens this requirement. Whenever an implementation encounters
 send an appropriate TLS Error alert.
a fatal error condition, it

MUST

Figure 4 shows an example message ﬂow where the EAP-TLS server rejects the ClientHello with an
error alert. The EAP-TLS server can also partly reject the ClientHello with a HelloRetryRequest;
see Section 2.1.6.

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

 EAP-TLS Peer                                      EAP-TLS Server

                                                      EAP-Request/
                             <--------                   Identity
 EAP-Response/
 Identity (Privacy-Friendly) -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <--------                 (TLS Start)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS ClientHello)            -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <--------           (TLS Error Alert)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS            -------->
                             <--------                EAP-Failure

Figure 4: EAP-TLS Server Rejection of ClientHello

Figure 5 shows an example message ﬂow where EAP-TLS server authentication is unsuccessful
and the EAP-TLS peer sends a TLS Error alert.

 EAP-TLS Peer                                      EAP-TLS Server

                                                      EAP-Request/
                             <--------                   Identity
 EAP-Response/
 Identity (Privacy-Friendly) -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <--------                 (TLS Start)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS ClientHello)            -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                                                 (TLS ServerHello,
                                          TLS EncryptedExtensions,
                                           TLS CertificateRequest,
                                                  TLS Certificate,
                                            TLS CertificateVerify,
                             <--------               TLS Finished)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS Error Alert)
                             -------->
                             <--------               EAP-Failure

Figure 5: EAP-TLS Unsuccessful EAP-TLS Server Authentication

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

Figure 6 shows an example message ﬂow where the EAP-TLS server authenticates to the EAP-TLS
peer successfully, but the EAP-TLS peer fails to authenticate to the EAP-TLS server and the server
sends a TLS Error alert.

 EAP-TLS Peer                                      EAP-TLS Server

                                                      EAP-Request/
                             <--------                   Identity
 EAP-Response/
 Identity (Privacy-Friendly) -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <--------                 (TLS Start)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS ClientHello)            -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                                                 (TLS ServerHello,
                                          TLS EncryptedExtensions,
                                           TLS CertificateRequest,
                                                  TLS Certificate,
                                            TLS CertificateVerify,
                             <--------               TLS Finished)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS Certificate,
 TLS CertificateVerify,
 TLS Finished)               -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <--------           (TLS Error Alert)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS            -------->
                             <--------                EAP-Failure

Figure 6: EAP-TLS Unsuccessful Client Authentication

2.1.5.  No Peer Authentication

This is a new section when compared to

[RFC5216]

.

Figure 7 shows an example message ﬂow for a successful EAP-TLS full handshake without peer
authentication (e.g., emergency services, as described in

[RFC7406]

).

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

 EAP-TLS Peer                                      EAP-TLS Server

                                                      EAP-Request/
                             <--------                   Identity
 EAP-Response/
 Identity (Privacy-Friendly) -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <--------                 (TLS Start)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS ClientHello)            -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                                                 (TLS ServerHello,
                                          TLS EncryptedExtensions,
                                                  TLS Certificate,
                                            TLS CertificateVerify,
                             <--------               TLS Finished)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS Finished)               -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <-------- (TLS Application Data 0x00)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS            -------->
                             <--------                EAP-Success

Figure 7: EAP-TLS without Peer Authentication

2.1.6.  Hello Retry Request

This is a new section when compared to

[RFC5216]

.

[RFC8446]

, EAP-TLS servers can send a HelloRetryRequest message in

As deﬁned in TLS 1.3
response to a ClientHello if the EAP-TLS server ﬁnds an acceptable set of parameters but the
initial ClientHello does not contain all the needed information to continue the handshake. One
use case is if the EAP-TLS server does not support the groups in the "key_share" extension (or there
is no "key_share" extension) but supports one of the groups in the "supported_groups" extension.
In this case, the client should send a new ClientHello with a "key_share" that the EAP-TLS server
supports.

Figure 8 shows an example message ﬂow for a successful EAP-TLS full handshake with mutual
authentication and HelloRetryRequest. Note the extra round trip as a result of the
HelloRetryRequest.

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

 EAP-TLS Peer                                      EAP-TLS Server

                                                      EAP-Request/
                             <--------                   Identity
 EAP-Response/
 Identity (Privacy-Friendly) -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <--------                 (TLS Start)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS ClientHello)            -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                                           (TLS HelloRetryRequest)
                             <--------
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS ClientHello)            -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                                                 (TLS ServerHello,
                                          TLS EncryptedExtensions,
                                           TLS CertificateRequest,
                                                  TLS Certificate,
                                            TLS CertificateVerify,
                                                     TLS Finished)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
(TLS Certificate,
 TLS CertificateVerify,
 TLS Finished)               -------->
                                                      EAP-Request/
                                                 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS
                             <-------- (TLS Application Data 0x00)
 EAP-Response/
 EAP-Type=EAP-TLS            -------->
                             <--------                EAP-Success

Figure 8: EAP-TLS with Hello Retry Request

2.1.7.  Identity

This is a new section when compared to

[RFC5216]

.

[RFC7542]

RECOMMENDED

NOT RECOMMENDED

 to use anonymous NAIs

 as they are not routable and should only be considered in local

It is
are routable and privacy-friendly. While opaque blobs are allowed by
are
deployments where the EAP-TLS peer, EAP authenticator, and EAP-TLS server all belong to the
same network. Many client certiﬁcates contain an identity such as an email address, which is
already in NAI format. When the client certiﬁcate contains an NAI as subject name or alternative
subject name, an anonymous NAI
SHOULD
2.1.8. More details on identities are described in Sections 2.1.3, 2.1.8, 2.2, and 5.8.

 in the Identity Response as such identities
[RFC3748]

 be derived from the NAI in the certiﬁcate; see Section

, such identities

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

2.1.8.  Privacy

This section updates
discussion.

Section 2.1.4 of [RFC5216]

 by amending it in accordance with the following

EAP-TLS 1.3 signiﬁcantly improves privacy when compared to earlier versions of EAP-TLS. EAP-
TLS 1.3 forbids cipher suites without conﬁdentiality, which means that TLS 1.3 is always
encrypting large parts of the TLS handshake including the certiﬁcate messages.

Section 2.4 of [RFC7542]

MUST
). A client supporting TLS 1.3

EAP-TLS peer and server implementations supporting TLS 1.3
Access Identiﬁers (NAIs) (
username (or any other permanent identiﬁers) in cleartext in the Identity Response (or any
message used instead of the Identity Response). Following
the username (i.e., the NAI is @realm), but other constructions such as a ﬁxed username (e.g.,
anonymous@realm) or an encrypted username (e.g.,
xCZINCPTK5+7y81CrSYbPg+RKPE3OTrYLn4AQc4AC2U=@realm) are allowed. Note that the NAI
MUST

 be a UTF-8 string as deﬁned by the grammar in

 support anonymous Network
 send its
MUST NOT

Section 2.2 of [RFC7542]

RECOMMENDED

[RFC7542]

 to omit

, it is

.

The HelloRequest message used for privacy in EAP-TLS 1.2 does not exist in TLS 1.3 but as the
certiﬁcate messages in TLS 1.3 are encrypted, there is no need to send an empty certiﬁcate_list
and perform a second handshake for privacy (as needed by EAP-TLS with earlier versions of TLS).
When EAP-TLS is used with TLS version 1.3, the EAP-TLS peer and EAP-TLS server
 follow the
processing speciﬁed by version 1.3 of TLS. This means that the EAP-TLS peer only sends an empty
certiﬁcate_list if it does not have an appropriate certiﬁcate to send, and the EAP-TLS server
MAY
treat an empty certiﬁcate_list as a terminal condition.

SHALL

EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3 is always used with privacy. This does not add any extra round trips and the
message ﬂow with privacy is just the normal message ﬂow as shown in Figure 1.

2.1.9.  Fragmentation

This section updates
discussion.

Section 2.1.5 of [RFC5216]

 by amending it in accordance with the following

Including ContentType (1 byte), ProtocolVersion (2 bytes), and length (2 bytes) headers, a single
TLS record may be up to 16645 octets in length. EAP-TLS fragmentation support is provided
through addition of a ﬂags octet within the EAP-Response and EAP-Request packets, as well as a
(conditional) TLS Message Length ﬁeld of four octets. Implementations
unfragmented messages, but they
bit set.

 accept unfragmented messages with and without the L

MUST NOT

 set the L bit in

MUST

Some EAP implementations and access networks may limit the number of EAP packet exchanges
that can be handled. To avoid fragmentation, it is
peer, EAP-TLS server, and trust anchor certiﬁcates small and the length of the certiﬁcate chains
short. In addition, it is
 to use mechanisms that reduce the sizes of Certiﬁcate
messages. For a detailed discussion on reducing message sizes to prevent fragmentation, see
[RFC9191]

 to keep the sizes of EAP-TLS

RECOMMENDED

RECOMMENDED

.

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

2.2.  Identity Veriﬁcation

This section replaces
section is relevant for EAP-TLS in general (regardless of the underlying TLS version used).

 with the following discussion. The guidance in this

Section 2.2 of [RFC5216]

The EAP peer identity provided in the EAP-Response/Identity is not authenticated by EAP-TLS.
Unauthenticated information
 examine the identity presented in
authorization. The authenticator and the EAP-TLS server
EAP-Response/Identity for purposes such as routing and EAP method selection. EAP-TLS servers
 reject conversations if the identity does not match their policy. Note that this also applies to
MAY
resumption; see Sections 2.1.3, 5.6, and 5.7.

 be used for accounting purposes or to give

MUST NOT

MAY

SHOULD

 allow for the

The EAP server identity in the TLS server certiﬁcate is typically a fully qualiﬁed domain name
(FQDN) in the SubjectAltName (SAN) extension. Since EAP-TLS deployments may use more than
one EAP server, each with a diﬀerent certiﬁcate, EAP peer implementations
conﬁguration of one or more trusted root certiﬁcates (CA certiﬁcate) to authenticate the server
certiﬁcate and one or more server names to match against the SubjectAltName (SAN) extension
in the server certiﬁcate. If any of the conﬁgured names match any of the names in the SAN
extension, then the name check passes. To simplify name matching, an EAP-TLS deployment can
assign a name to represent an authorized EAP server and EAP Server certiﬁcates can include this
name in the list of SANs for each certiﬁcate that represents an EAP-TLS server. If server name
matching is not used, then it degrades the conﬁdence that the EAP server with which it is
interacting is authoritative for the given network. If name matching is not used with a public root
CA, then eﬀectively any server can obtain a certiﬁcate that will be trusted for EAP authentication
by the peer. While this guidance to verify domain names is new, and was not mentioned in
, it has been widely implemented in EAP-TLS peers. As such, it is believed that this
[RFC5216]
section contains minimal new interoperability or implementation requirements on EAP-TLS
peers and can be applied to earlier versions of TLS.

RECOMMENDED

. For example, the eduroam federation
 provides a Conﬁguration Assistant Tool (CAT) to automate the conﬁguration process.

The process of conﬁguring a root CA certiﬁcate and a server name is non-trivial; therefore,
automated methods of provisioning are
[RFC7593]
In the absence of a trusted root CA certiﬁcate (user conﬁgured or system-wide), EAP peers
implement a trust on ﬁrst use (TOFU) mechanism where the peer trusts and stores the server
certiﬁcate during the ﬁrst connection attempt. The EAP peer ensures that the server presents the
same stored certiﬁcate on subsequent interactions. Use of a TOFU mechanism does not allow for
the server certiﬁcate to change without out-of-band validation of the certiﬁcate and is therefore
not suitable for many deployments including ones where multiple EAP servers are deployed for
high availability. TOFU mechanisms increase the susceptibility to traﬃc interception attacks and
should only be used if there are adequate controls in place to mitigate this risk.

MAY

2.3.  Key Hierarchy

This section updates
discussion.

Section 2.3 of [RFC5216]

 by replacing it in accordance with the following

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

TLS 1.3 replaces the TLS pseudorandom function (PRF) used in earlier versions of TLS with the
HMAC-based Key Derivation Function (HKDF) and completely changes the key schedule. The key
 are therefore not correct when EAP-TLS is used with
hierarchies shown in
Section 7.1 of [RFC8446]
TLS version 1.3. For TLS 1.3 the key schedule is described in

Section 2.3 of [RFC5216]

.

When EAP-TLS is used with TLS version 1.3, the Key_Material and Method-Id
from the exporter_secret using the TLS exporter interface
Section 7.5 of [RFC8446]
For EAP-TLS, the Type ﬁeld has value 0x0D.

). Type is the value of the EAP Type ﬁeld deﬁned in

[RFC5705]

SHALL

 be derived

 (for TLS 1.3, this is deﬁned in
.

Section 2 of [RFC3748]

Type = 0x0D
Key_Material = TLS-Exporter("EXPORTER_EAP_TLS_Key_Material",
                            Type, 128)
Method-Id    = TLS-Exporter("EXPORTER_EAP_TLS_Method-Id",
                            Type, 64)
Session-Id   = Type || Method-Id

The MSK and EMSK are derived from the Key_Material in the same manner as with EAP-TLS
[RFC5216], Section 2.3
. The deﬁnitions are repeated below for simplicity:

MSK          = Key_Material(0, 63)
EMSK         = Key_Material(64, 127)

Other TLS-based EAP methods can use the TLS exporter in a similar fashion; see

[TLS-EAP-TYPES]

.

 deprecates the use of an Initialization Vector (IV). Thus, RECV-IV and SEND-IV are not

[RFC5247]
exported in EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3. As noted in
dependent manner. EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3 exports the MSK and does not specify how it is used by
lower layers.

, lower layers use the MSK in a lower-layer-

[RFC5247]

MUST

 use the length values given above. While in TLS 1.2 and earlier
Note that the key derivation
it was possible to truncate the output by requesting less data from the TLS-Exporter function, this
practice is not possible with TLS 1.3. If an implementation intends to use only a part of the output
of the TLS-Exporter function, then it
part. Failure to do so will result in incorrect values being calculated for the above keying material.

 ask for the full output and then only use the desired

MUST

By using the TLS exporter, EAP-TLS can use any TLS 1.3 implementation that provides a public API
for the exporter. Note that when TLS 1.2 is used with the EAP-TLS exporter
the same key material as in EAP-TLS

 it generates

[RFC5705]

[RFC5216]

.

2.4.  Parameter Negotiation and Compliance Requirements

This section updates
discussion.

Section 2.4 of [RFC5216]

 by amending it in accordance with the following

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

TLS 1.3 cipher suites are deﬁned diﬀerently than in earlier versions of TLS (see
[RFC8446]
when EAP-TLS is used with TLS version 1.3.

), and the cipher suites discussed in

Section 2.4 of [RFC5216]

Appendix B.4 of
 can therefore not be used

When EAP-TLS is used with TLS version 1.3, the EAP-TLS peers and EAP-TLS servers
with the compliance requirements (mandatory-to-implement cipher suites, signature algorithms,
key exchange algorithms, extensions, etc.) deﬁned in
. In EAP-TLS with TLS
1.3, only cipher suites with conﬁdentiality

Section 9 of [RFC8446]

 be supported.

 comply

SHALL

MUST

While EAP-TLS does not protect any application data except for the 0x00 byte that serves as
protected success indication, the negotiated cipher suites and algorithms
data as done in other TLS-based EAP methods.

MAY

 be used to secure

2.5.  EAP State Machines

This is a new section when compared to
proposed state machine for EAP.

[RFC5216]

 and only applies to TLS 1.3.

[RFC4137]

 oﬀers a

[RFC8446]

 introduces post-handshake messages. These post-handshake messages use the

TLS 1.3
handshake content type and can be sent after the main handshake. Examples of post-handshake
messages are NewSessionTicket, which is used for resumption and KeyUpdate, which is not useful
and not expected in EAP-TLS. After sending TLS Finished, the EAP-TLS server may send any
number of post-handshake messages in one or more EAP-Requests.

To provide a protected success result indication and to decrease the uncertainty for the EAP-TLS
peer, the following procedure

 be followed:

MUST

When an EAP-TLS server has successfully processed the TLS client Finished and sent its last
handshake message (Finished or a post-handshake message), it sends an encrypted TLS record
with application data 0x00. The encrypted TLS record with application data 0x00 is a protected
success result indication, as deﬁned in
. After sending an EAP-Request that contains the
protected success result indication, the EAP-TLS server must not send any more EAP-Requests and
may only send an EAP-Success. The EAP-TLS server
 send an encrypted TLS record with
application data 0x00 before it has successfully processed the client Finished and sent its last
handshake message.

[RFC3748]

MUST NOT

SHOULD

 be considered a failure result indication, as deﬁned in

TLS Error alerts
Implementations following
after sending or receiving an error alert. After sending or receiving a TLS Error alert, the EAP-TLS
server may only send an EAP-Failure. Protected TLS Error alerts are protected failure result
indications, and unprotected TLS Error alerts are not.

 set the alternate indication of failure variable altReject

[RFC4137]

[RFC3748]

.

The keying material can be derived after the TLS server Finished has been sent or received.
Implementations following
variables.

 can then set the eapKeyData and aaaEapKeyData

[RFC4137]

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

The keying material can be made available to lower layers and the authenticator after the
authenticated success result indication has been sent or received. Implementations following
[RFC4137]

 can set the eapKeyAvailable and aaaEapKeyAvailable variables.

3.  Detailed Description of the EAP-TLS Protocol

There are no updates to

Section 3 of [RFC5216]

.

4.  IANA Considerations

This section provides guidance to the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) regarding
registration of values related to EAP-TLS 1.3 in accordance with

[RFC8126]

.

Per this document, IANA has added the following labels to the "TLS Exporter Labels" registry
deﬁned by
. These labels are used in derivation of Key_Material and Method-Id as
[RFC5705]
deﬁned in Section 2.3:

Value

DTLS-OK

Recommended Note

EXPORTER_EAP_TLS_Key_Material

EXPORTER_EAP_TLS_Method-Id

Table 1: TLS Exporter Labels

N

N

Y

Y

5.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of TLS 1.3

[RFC8446]

 apply to EAP-TLS 1.3.

5.1.  Security Claims

Using EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3 does not change the security claims for EAP-TLS as given in
of [RFC5216]
to the notes given in

. However, it strengthens several of the claims as described in the following updates

Section 5.1 of [RFC5216]

Section 5.1

.

[1] Mutual authentication:

By mandating revocation checking of certiﬁcates, the

authentication in EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3 is stronger as authentication with revoked certiﬁcates
will always fail.

[2] Conﬁdentiality:

The TLS 1.3 handshake oﬀers much better conﬁdentiality than earlier

versions of TLS. EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3 mandates use of cipher suites that ensure
conﬁdentiality. TLS 1.3 also encrypts certiﬁcates and some of the extensions. When using
EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3, the use of privacy is mandatory and does not cause any additional
round trips.

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

[3] Cryptographic strength:

TLS 1.3 only deﬁnes strong algorithms without major weaknesses
and EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3 always provides forward secrecy; see
. Weak algorithms
such as 3DES, CBC mode, RC4, SHA-1, MD5, P-192, and RSA-1024 have not been registered for
use in TLS 1.3.

[RFC8446]

[4] Cryptographic negotiation:

The TLS layer handles the negotiation of cryptographic
parameters. When EAP-TLS is used with TLS 1.3, EAP-TLS inherits the cryptographic
negotiation of the AEAD algorithm, HKDF hash algorithm, key exchange groups, and
signature algorithm; see

Section 4.1.1 of [RFC8446]

.

5.2.  Peer and Server Identities

No updates to
identities.

Section 5.2 of [RFC5216]

. Note that Section 2.2 has additional discussion on

5.3.  Certiﬁcate Validation

Section 5.3 of [RFC5216]
No updates to
certiﬁcate validation can be found in

. In addition to
[RFC6125]

.

Section 5.3 of [RFC5216]

, guidance on server

5.4.  Certiﬁcate Revocation

This section updates
discussion.

Section 5.4 of [RFC5216]

 by amending it in accordance with the following

There are a number of reasons (e.g., key compromise, CA compromise, privilege withdrawn, etc.)
why EAP-TLS peer, EAP-TLS server, or sub-CA certiﬁcates have to be revoked before their expiry
date. Revocation of the EAP-TLS server's certiﬁcate is complicated by the fact that the EAP-TLS
peer may not have Internet connectivity until authentication completes.

MUST

When EAP-TLS is used with TLS 1.3, the revocation status of all the certiﬁcates in the certiﬁcate
 be checked (except the trust anchor). An implementation may use the Certiﬁcate
chains
Revocation List (CRL), Online Certiﬁcate Status Protocol (OSCP), or other standardized/
proprietary methods for revocation checking. Examples of proprietary methods are non-
standard formats for distribution of revocation lists as well as certiﬁcates with very short
lifetime.

MUST

 and

. It is

RECOMMENDED

Section 4.4.2.1 of [RFC8446]

 implement Certiﬁcate Status Requests (OCSP stapling) as
 that EAP-TLS peers and

EAP-TLS servers supporting TLS 1.3
[RFC6066]
speciﬁed in
EAP-TLS servers use OCSP stapling for verifying the status of the EAP-TLS server's certiﬁcate
chain. When an EAP-TLS peer uses Certiﬁcate Status Requests to check the revocation status of
the EAP-TLS server's certiﬁcate chain, it
 treat a CertiﬁcateEntry (but not the trust anchor)
MUST
without a valid CertiﬁcateStatus extension as invalid and abort the handshake with an
appropriate alert. The OCSP status handling in TLS 1.3 is diﬀerent from earlier versions of TLS; see
Section 4.4.2.1 of [RFC8446]
containing the associated certiﬁcate instead of a separate CertiﬁcateStatus message as in
[RFC6066]
(except the trust anchor).

. This enables sending OCSP information for all certiﬁcates in the certiﬁcate chain

. In TLS 1.3, the OCSP information is carried in the CertiﬁcateEntry

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

To enable revocation checking in situations where EAP-TLS peers do not implement or use OCSP
stapling, and where network connectivity is not available prior to authentication completion,
EAP-TLS peer implementations
authentication completes and network connectivity is available. An EAP peer implementation
SHOULD NOT
server certiﬁcate after receiving network connectivity. An EAP peer
to verify the revocation status of the server certiﬁcate. An EAP peer
traﬃc before revocation checking for the server certiﬁcate is complete.

 trust the network (and any services) until it has veriﬁed the revocation status of the
 use a secure transport
 send any other

 also support checking for certiﬁcate revocation after

SHOULD NOT

MUST

MUST

5.5.  Packet Modiﬁcation Attacks

This section updates
discussion.

Section 5.5 of [RFC5216]

 by amending it in accordance with the following

 and

[RFC3748]

Section 5.5 of [RFC5216]

As described in
, the only information that is integrity and
replay protected in EAP-TLS are the parts of the TLS Data that TLS protects. All other information
in the EAP-TLS message exchange including EAP-Request and EAP-Response headers, the identity
in the Identity Response, EAP-TLS packet header ﬁelds, Type, Flags, EAP-Success, and EAP-Failure
can be modiﬁed, spoofed, or replayed.

Protected TLS Error alerts are protected failure result indications and enable the EAP-TLS peer
and EAP-TLS server to determine that the failure result was not spoofed by an attacker. Protected
failure result indications provide integrity and replay protection but
Protected failure results do not signiﬁcantly improve availability as TLS 1.3 treats most
malformed data as a fatal error.

 be unauthenticated.

MAY

5.6.  Authorization

This is a new section when compared to
EAP-TLS in general (regardless of the underlying TLS version used).

[RFC5216]

. The guidance in this section is relevant for

 take care to limit network access appropriately for unauthenticated peers, and

EAP servers will usually require the EAP peer to provide a valid certiﬁcate and will fail the
connection if one is not provided. Some deployments may permit no peer authentication for
some or all connections. When peer authentication is not used, EAP-TLS server implementations
MUST
implementations
granted more privilege than was intended for the original session. An example of limiting
network access would be to invoke a vendor's walled garden or quarantine network
functionality.

 use resumption with caution to ensure that a resumed session is not

MUST

, or the Protocol for Carrying Authentication for Network Access (PANA)

[RFC6733]
. The encapsulating protocols can also provide additional, non-EAP information to an

EAP-TLS is typically encapsulated in other protocols such as PPP
Diameter
[RFC5191]
EAP-TLS server. This information can include, but is not limited to, information about the
authenticator, information about the EAP-TLS peer, or information about the protocol layers
above or below EAP (MAC addresses, IP addresses, port numbers, Wi-Fi Service Set Identiﬁers

[RFC2865]

[RFC1661]

, RADIUS

,

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

(SSIDs), etc.). EAP-TLS servers implementing EAP-TLS inside those protocols can make policy
decisions and enforce authorization based on a combination of information from the EAP-TLS
exchange and non-EAP information.

As noted in Section 2.2, the identity presented in EAP-Response/Identity is not authenticated by
EAP-TLS and is therefore trivial for an attacker to forge, modify, or replay. Authorization and
accounting
the PSK identity and cached data provisioned for resumption as described in Section 5.7. Note
Section 4 of [RFC7542]
that the requirements for Network Access Identiﬁers (NAIs) speciﬁed in
still apply and

 be based on authenticated information such as information in the certiﬁcate or

 be followed.

MUST

MUST

MAY

EAP-TLS servers
encapsulating protocol, for example if the MAC address of the authenticator does not match the
expected policy.

 reject conversations based on non-EAP information provided by the

In addition to allowing conﬁguration of one or more trusted root certiﬁcates (CA certiﬁcate) to
authenticate the server certiﬁcate and one or more server names to match against the
SubjectAltName (SAN) extension, EAP peer implementations
 allow binding the conﬁgured
acceptable SAN to a speciﬁc CA (or CAs) that should have issued the server certiﬁcate to prevent
attacks from rogue or compromised CAs.

MAY

5.7.  Resumption

This is a new section when compared to
EAP-TLS in general (regardless of the underlying TLS version used).

[RFC5216]

. The guidance in this section is relevant for

There are a number of security issues related to resumption that are not described in
.
[RFC5216]
The problems, guidelines, and requirements in this section therefore apply to EAP-TLS when it is
used with any version of TLS.

When resumption occurs, it is based on cached information at the TLS layer. To perform
resumption securely, the EAP-TLS peer and EAP-TLS server need to be able to securely retrieve
authorization information such as certiﬁcate chains from the initial full handshake. This
document uses the term "cached data" to describe such information. Authorization during
resumption
MAY
perform fresh revocation checks on the cached certiﬁcate data. Any security policies for
authorization
since the initial full handshake and the authorizations of the other party may have been reduced.
If the cached revocation data is not suﬃciently current, the EAP-TLS peer or EAP-TLS server
MAY
force a full TLS handshake.

 be followed also for resumption. The certiﬁcates may have been revoked

 be based on such cached data. The EAP-TLS peer and EAP-TLS server

MUST

MUST

There are two ways to retrieve the cached data from the original full handshake. The ﬁrst method
is that the EAP-TLS server and client cache the information locally. The cached information is
identiﬁed by an identiﬁer. For TLS versions before 1.3, the identiﬁer can be the session ID; for TLS
1.3, the identiﬁer is the PSK identity. The second method for retrieving cached information is via
, where the EAP-TLS server avoids storing information locally and instead
[RFC5077]
encapsulates the information into a ticket that is sent to the client for storage. This ticket is

[RFC8446]

 or

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

encrypted using a key that only the EAP-TLS server knows. Note that the client still needs to cache
the original handshake information locally and will obtain it while determining the session ID or
PSK identity to use for resumption. However, the EAP-TLS server is able to decrypt the ticket or
PSK to obtain the original handshake information.

The EAP-TLS server or EAP client
allow authorization decisions to be made during resumption. If cached data cannot be retrieved
securely, resumption

 cache data during the initial full handshake suﬃcient to

MUST NOT

 be done.

MUST

The above requirements also apply if the EAP-TLS server expects some system to perform
accounting for the session. Since accounting must be tied to an authenticated identity, and
resumption does not supply such an identity, accounting is impossible without access to cached
data. Therefore, systems that expect to perform accounting for the session
identiﬁer that can be used in subsequent accounting.

 cache an

SHOULD

[RFC8446]

, EAP-TLS peers

As suggested in
MUST NOT
associated cached data) for longer than 604800 seconds (7 days) regardless of the PSK or ticket
lifetime. The EAP-TLS peer
MAY
also be removed on the EAP-TLS server or EAP-TLS peer if any certiﬁcate in the certiﬁcate chain
has been revoked or has expired. In all such cases, an attempt at resumption results in a full TLS
handshake instead.

 delete them earlier based on local policy. The cached data

 store resumption PSKs or tickets (and

MAY

Information from the EAP-TLS exchange (e.g., the identity provided in EAP-Response/Identity) as
well as non-EAP information (e.g., IP addresses) may change between the initial full handshake
and resumption. This change creates a "time-of-check time-of-use" (TOCTOU) security
vulnerability. A malicious or compromised user could supply one set of data during the initial
authentication, and a diﬀerent set of data during resumption, potentially allowing them to obtain
access that they should not have.

If any authorization, accounting, or policy decisions were made with information that has
changed between the initial full handshake and resumption, and if change may lead to a diﬀerent
 that authorization, accounting,
decision, such decisions
and policy decisions are reevaluated based on the information given in the resumption. EAP-TLS
servers
 reject resumption where the information supplied during resumption does not
match the information supplied during the original authentication. If a safe decision is not
possible, EAP-TLS servers

 reject the resumption and continue with a full handshake.

 be reevaluated. It is

RECOMMENDED

SHOULD

MUST

MAY

Sections 2.2 and 4.2.11 of

[RFC8446]

 provide security considerations for TLS 1.3 resumption.

5.8.  Privacy Considerations

This is a new section when compared to

[RFC5216]

.

TLS 1.3 oﬀers much better privacy than earlier versions of TLS as discussed in Section 2.1.8. In this
section, we only discuss the privacy properties of EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3. For privacy properties of
TLS 1.3 itself, see

[RFC8446]

.

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

EAP-TLS sends the standard TLS 1.3 handshake messages encapsulated in EAP packets.
Additionally, the EAP-TLS peer sends an identity in the ﬁrst EAP-Response. The other ﬁelds in the
EAP-TLS Request and the EAP-TLS Response packets do not contain any cleartext privacy-
sensitive information.

Tracking of users by eavesdropping on Identity Responses or certiﬁcates is a well-known
problem in many EAP methods. When EAP-TLS is used with TLS 1.3, all certiﬁcates are encrypted,
and the username part of the Identity Response is not revealed (e.g., using anonymous NAIs).
Note that even though all certiﬁcates are encrypted, the server's identity is only protected against
passive attackers while the client's identity is protected against both passive and active attackers.
As with other EAP methods, even when privacy-friendly identiﬁers or EAP tunneling is used, the
domain name (i.e., the realm) in the NAI is still typically visible. How much privacy-sensitive
information the domain name leaks is highly dependent on how many other users are using the
same domain name in the particular access network. If all EAP-TLS peers have the same domain,
no additional information is leaked. If a domain name is used by a small subset of the EAP-TLS
peers, it may aid an attacker in tracking or identifying the user.

Without padding, information about the size of the client certiﬁcate is leaked from the size of the
EAP-TLS packets. The EAP-TLS packets sizes may therefore leak information that can be used to
track or identify the user. If all client certiﬁcates have the same length, no information is leaked.
EAP-TLS peers
leakage of certiﬁcate sizes.

 use record padding; see

Section 5.4 of [RFC8446]

 to reduce information

SHOULD

MUST

If anonymous NAIs are not used, the privacy-friendly identiﬁers need to be generated with care.
The identities
 be generated in a cryptographically secure way so that it is computationally
infeasible for an attacker to diﬀerentiate two identities belonging to the same user from two
identities belonging to diﬀerent users in the same realm. This can be achieved, for instance, by
using random or pseudo-random usernames such as random byte strings or ciphertexts and only
using the pseudo-random usernames a single time. Note that the privacy-friendly usernames also
MUST NOT
privacy-friendly usernames
multiple diﬀerent authentications.

 include substrings that can be used to relate the identity to a speciﬁc user. Similarly,

 be formed by a ﬁxed mapping that stays the same across

MUST NOT

An EAP-TLS peer with a policy allowing communication with EAP-TLS servers supporting only TLS
1.2 without privacy and with a static RSA key exchange is vulnerable to disclosure of the EAP-TLS
peer username. An active attacker can in this case make the EAP-TLS peer believe that an EAP-
TLS server supporting TLS 1.3 only supports TLS 1.2 without privacy. The attacker can simply
impersonate the EAP-TLS server and negotiate TLS 1.2 with static RSA key exchange and send a
TLS alert message when the EAP-TLS peer tries to use privacy by sending an empty certiﬁcate
message. Since the attacker (impersonating the EAP-TLS server) does not provide a proof-of-
possession of the private key until the Finished message when a static RSA key exchange is used,
an EAP-TLS peer may inadvertently disclose its identity (username) to an attacker. Therefore, it is
RECOMMENDED
suites without privacy. This implies that an EAP-TLS peer
authentication attempt if a TLS 1.2 EAP-TLS server sends an EAP-TLS/Request with a TLS alert
message in response to an empty certiﬁcate message from the peer.

 for EAP-TLS peers to not use EAP-TLS with TLS 1.2 and static RSA-based cipher

 continue the EAP

SHOULD NOT

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

5.9.  Pervasive Monitoring

This is a new section when compared to

[RFC5216]

.

Pervasive monitoring refers to widespread surveillance of users. In the context of EAP-TLS,
pervasive monitoring attacks can target EAP-TLS peer devices for tracking them (and their users)
when they join a network. By encrypting more information, mandating the use of privacy, and
always providing forward secrecy, EAP-TLS with TLS 1.3 oﬀers much better protection against
pervasive monitoring. In addition to the privacy attacks discussed above, surveillance on a large
scale may enable tracking of a user over a wide geographical area and across diﬀerent access
networks. Using information from EAP-TLS together with information gathered from other
protocols increases the risk of identifying individual users.

In TLS 1.3, the post-handshake key update mechanism provides forward secrecy for the traﬃc
secrets. EAP-TLS 1.3 does not provide a similar mechanism for MSK and EMSK. Implementation
using the exported MSK and EMSK can achieve forward secrecy by frequently deriving new keys
in a similar way as described in

Section 7.2 of [RFC8446]

.

5.10.  Discovered Vulnerabilities

This is a new section when compared to

[RFC5216]

.

 summarizes the attacks that were known at the time of publishing, and BCP 195

Over the years, there have been several serious attacks on earlier versions of Transport Layer
Security (TLS), including attacks on its most commonly used ciphers and modes of operation.
[RFC7457]
 provides recommendations and requirements for improving the security of
[RFC7525] [RFC8996]
deployed services that use TLS. However, many of the attacks are less serious for EAP-TLS as EAP-
TLS only uses the TLS handshake and does not protect any application data. EAP-TLS
implementations
follow new EAP- and TLS-related security guidance and requirements such as
[RFC9155]

 mitigate known attacks. EAP-TLS implementations need to monitor and

[RFC8447]

 and

MUST

.

5.11.  Cross-Protocol Attacks

This is a new section when compared to

[RFC5216]

.

Allowing the same certiﬁcate to be used in multiple protocols can potentially allow an attacker to
authenticate via one protocol and then "resume" that session in another protocol. Section 2.2
suggests that certiﬁcates typically have one or more FQDNs in the SAN extension. However, those
ﬁelds are for EAP validation only and do not indicate that the certiﬁcates are suitable for use with
HTTPS or other protocols on the named host.

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

Section 2.1.3 suggests that authorization rules should be reapplied on resumption but does not
mandate this behavior. As a result, this cross-protocol resumption could allow the attacker to
bypass authorization policies and to obtain undesired access to secured systems. Along with
making sure that appropriate authorization information is available and used during
resumption, using diﬀerent certiﬁcates and resumption caches for diﬀerent protocols is
RECOMMENDED

 to help keep diﬀerent protocol usages separate.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3748]

[RFC5216]

[RFC5280]

[RFC5705]

[RFC6066]

[RFC6960]

[RFC7542]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Aboba, B. Blunk, L. Vollbrecht, J. Carlson, J.
,
,
Authentication Protocol (EAP)" RFC 3748 DOI 10.17487/RFC3748
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3748>

, and

,

,

H. Levkowetz, Ed. "Extensible

,

, June 2004,

,
Simon, D. Aboba, B.
,
5216 DOI 10.17487/RFC5216
.
rfc5216>

, and

R. Hurst "The EAP-TLS Authentication Protocol" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, March 2008,

,

,

,
W. Polk "Internet
Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL)
Proﬁle" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
.
info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "Keying Material Exporters for Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
,
5705 DOI 10.17487/RFC5705
.
rfc5705>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2010,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
,
,
Deﬁnitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
.
editor.org/info/rfc6066>

, January 2011,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Santesson, S. Myers, M. Ankney, R. Malpani, A. Galperin, S.
,
509 Internet Public Key Infrastructure Online Certiﬁcate Status Protocol - OCSP"
,
RFC 6960 DOI 10.17487/RFC6960
.
rfc6960>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

C. Adams "X.

, June 2013,

, and

,

,

,

DeKok, A. "The Network Access Identiﬁer" RFC 7542 DOI 10.17487/RFC7542
2015,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7542>

,

,

,

, May

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

[RFC8446]

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>
.

, August 2018,

,

6.2.  Informative references

[IEEE-802.11]

[IEEE-802.1AE]

[IEEE-802.1X]

[MulteFire]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Information technology-Telecommunications and
information exchange between systems Local and metropolitan area networks-
Speciﬁc requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and
Physical Layer (PHY) Speciﬁcations" IEEE Std. 802.11-2020 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.
2016.7786995

.
<https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2016.7786995>

, February 2021,

,

,

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks -- Media Access
Control (MAC) Security" IEEE Std. 802.1AE-2018 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.
2018.8585421

.
<https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2018.8585421>

, December 2018,

,

,

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks--Port-Based
Network Access Control" IEEE Std. 802.1X-2020 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.
2020.9018454

.
<https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2020.9018454>

, February 2020,

,

,

MulteFire Alliance "MulteFire Release 1.1 Speciﬁcation"

,

, 2019.

[PEAP]

Microsoft Corporation "[MS-PEAP]: Protected Extensible Authentication
Protocol (PEAP)"

,
, June 2021.

[RFC1661]

[RFC2246]

[RFC2560]

[RFC2865]

[RFC3280]

[RFC4137]

[RFC4282]

,
Simpson, W., Ed. "The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)" STD 51 RFC 1661 DOI
10.17487/RFC1661

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1661>

, July 1994,

,

,

Dierks, T.
RFC2246

 and
, January 1999,

,

C. Allen "The TLS Protocol Version 1.0" RFC 2246 DOI 10.17487/

,

,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2246>

,

Myers, M. Ankney, R. Malpani, A. Galperin, S.
C. Adams "X.509 Internet
,
Public Key Infrastructure Online Certiﬁcate Status Protocol - OCSP" RFC 2560
DOI 10.17487/RFC2560

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2560>

, June 1999,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Rigney, C. Willens, S. Rubens, A.
In User Service (RADIUS)" RFC 2865 DOI 10.17487/RFC2865
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2865>

W. Simpson "Remote Authentication Dial
<https://

, and
,

, June 2000,

,

,

,

,

Housley, R. Polk, W. Ford, W.
Infrastructure Certiﬁcate and Certiﬁcate Revocation List (CRL) Proﬁle" RFC
3280 DOI 10.17487/RFC3280

D. Solo "Internet X.509 Public Key

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3280>

, April 2002,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

Vollbrecht, J. Eronen, P. Petroni, N.
Y. Ohba "State Machines for Extensible
Authentication Protocol (EAP) Peer and Authenticator" RFC 4137 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4137

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4137>

, August 2005,

, and

,

,

,

,

Aboba, B. Beadles, M. Arkko, J.
RFC 4282 DOI 10.17487/RFC4282
.
info/rfc4282>

,
,

,

, and
, December 2005,

,

,
P. Eronen "The Network Access Identiﬁer"

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

[RFC4346]

[RFC4851]

[RFC5077]

[RFC5191]

[RFC5246]

[RFC5247]

[RFC5281]

[RFC6125]

[RFC6733]

[RFC7170]

[RFC7406]

Dierks, T.
1.1" RFC 4346 DOI 10.17487/RFC4346
,
.
rfc4346>

E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
 and
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, April 2006,

,

,

Cam-Winget, N. McGrew, D. Salowey, J.
Authentication via Secure Tunneling Extensible Authentication Protocol Method
,
,
(EAP-FAST)" RFC 4851 DOI 10.17487/RFC4851
.
editor.org/info/rfc4851>

H. Zhou "The Flexible

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2007,

, and

,

,

,

Salowey, J. Zhou, H. Eronen, P.
H. Tschofenig "Transport Layer Security
(TLS) Session Resumption without Server-Side State" RFC 5077 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5077

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5077>

, January 2008,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,
Forsberg, D. Ohba, Y., Ed. Patil, B. Tschofenig, H.
Carrying Authentication for Network Access (PANA)" RFC 5191 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5191

, and
A. Yegin "Protocol for
,
,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5191>

, May 2008,

,

,

 and
Dierks, T.
E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
,
,
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
.
info/rfc5246>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, August 2008,

,

,
Aboba, B. Simon, D.
,
,
Key Management Framework" RFC 5247 DOI 10.17487/RFC5247
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5247>

P. Eronen "Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
, August 2008,

, and

,

 and

S. Blake-Wilson "Extensible Authentication Protocol Tunneled
,

Funk, P.
Transport Layer Security Authenticated Protocol Version 0 (EAP-TTLSv0)" RFC
,
5281 DOI 10.17487/RFC5281
.
rfc5281>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2008,

,

,

 and

J. Hodges "Representation and Veriﬁcation of Domain-Based

Saint-Andre, P.
Application Service Identity within Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using X.
509 (PKIX) Certiﬁcates in the Context of Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
,
6125 DOI 10.17487/RFC6125
.
rfc6125>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

,
Fajardo, V., Ed. Arkko, J. Loughney, J.
,
RFC 6733 DOI 10.17487/RFC6733
.
rfc6733>

,

, and
, October 2012,

,
G. Zorn, Ed. "Diameter Base Protocol"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Zhou, H. Cam-Winget, N. Salowey, J.
Authentication Protocol (TEAP) Version 1" RFC 7170 DOI 10.17487/RFC7170
2014,

S. Hanna "Tunnel Extensible
,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7170>

, and

,

,

,

, May

,

Schulzrinne, H. McCann, S. Bajko, G. Tschofenig, H.
"Extensions to the Emergency Services Architecture for Dealing With
,
Unauthenticated and Unauthorized Devices" RFC 7406 DOI 10.17487/RFC7406
December 2014,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7406>

,
D. Kroeselberg

, and

,

,

,

,

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

[RFC7457]

[RFC7525]

[RFC7593]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8447]

[RFC8996]

[RFC9155]

[RFC9191]

P. Saint-Andre "Summarizing Known Attacks on
Sheﬀer, Y. Holz, R.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram TLS (DTLS)" RFC 7457 DOI
10.17487/RFC7457

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7457>
.

, February 2015,

, and

,

,

,

, and

P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of

Sheﬀer, Y. Holz, R.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
,
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc7525>
.

, May 2015,

,

,

,

,

Wierenga, K. Winter, S.
, and
Network Roaming" RFC 7593 DOI 10.17487/RFC7593
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7593>

T. Wolniewicz "The eduroam Architecture for
,

, September 2015,

,

,

<https://

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

Salowey, J.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8447

,
S. Turner "IANA Registry Updates for TLS and DTLS" RFC 8447
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8447>

, August 2018,

 and

,

,

Moriarty, K.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8996

,
S. Farrell "Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1" BCP 195 RFC 8996
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8996>

, March 2021,

 and

,

,

,

,

Velvindron, L. Moriarty, K.
,
Signature Hashes in TLS 1.2 and DTLS 1.2" RFC 9155 DOI 10.17487/RFC9155
December 2021,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9155>

A. Ghedini "Deprecating MD5 and SHA-1
,

, and

,

,

,

Sethi, M. Preuß Mattsson, J.
S. Turner "Handling Large Certiﬁcates and
Long Certiﬁcate Chains in TLS-Based EAP Methods" RFC 9191 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9191

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9191>

, February 2022,

, and

,

,

,

[TICKET-REQUESTS]

Pauly, T. Schinazi, D.

,

, and

C. A. Wood "TLS Ticket Requests" Work in

,

,

,

Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-ticketrequests-07
.
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-ticketrequests-07>

, 3 December 2020,

[TLS-bis]

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-tls-rfc8446bis-03
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-tls-rfc8446bis-03>

,
<https://

, 25 October 2021,

,

[TLS-EAP-TYPES]

DeKok, A. "TLS-based EAP types and TLS 1.3" Work in Progress Internet-

,

,

,

Draft, draft-ietf-emu-tls-eap-types-04
<https://
.
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-emu-tls-eap-types-04>

, 21 January 2022,

[TS.33.501]

,
3GPP "Security architecture and procedures for 5G system" Release 17  TS
, January 2022.
33.501

,

,

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9190

EAP-TLS 1.3

February 2022

Appendix A.  Updated References

The following references in
TLS 1.3.

[RFC5216]

 are updated as speciﬁed below when EAP-TLS is used with

•

All references to

[RFC2560]

 are updated to refer to

[RFC6960]

.

•

All references to
[RFC3280]

[RFC3280]
 are updated to refer to

•

All references to
[RFC4282]

[RFC4282]
 are updated to refer to

 are updated to refer to

[RFC5280]

. References to

Section 4.2.1.13 of

Section 4.2.1.12 of [RFC5280]

.

 are updated to refer to

[RFC7542]

. References to

Section 2.1 of

Section 2.2 of [RFC7542]

.

Acknowledgments

,
The authors want to thank
Benjamin Kaduk Jouni Malinen Oleg Pekar Eric Rescorla Jim Schaad Joseph Salowey Martin
,
Thomson Vesa Torvinen Hannes Tschofenig
, and
suggestions on this document. Special thanks to the Document Shepherd

Bernard Aboba Jari Arkko Terry Burton Alan DeKok Ari Keränen

,
Heikki Vatiainen

 for comments and

Joseph Salowey

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Contributors

Alan DeKok

, FreeRADIUS

Authors' Addresses

John Preuß Mattsson
Ericsson
SE-
Sweden
Email:

164 40 Kista

 john.mattsson@ericsson.com

Mohit Sethi
Ericsson
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 mohit@iki.ﬁ

Preuß Mattsson & Sethi

Standards Track

Page 31

