Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9673
8200
Standards Track
October 2024
2070-1721
R. Hinden
Check Point Software

G. Fairhurst
University of Aberdeen

RFC 9673
IPv6 Hop-by-Hop Options Processing Procedures

Abstract

This document specifies procedures for processing IPv6 Hop-by-Hop options in IPv6 routers and
hosts. It modifies the procedures specified in the IPv6 Protocol Specification (RFC 8200) to make
processing of the IPv6 Hop-by-Hop Options header practical with the goal of making IPv6 Hop-
by-Hop options useful to deploy and use at IPv6 routers and hosts. This document updates RFC
8200.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9673
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Terminology

4.  Background

5.  Hop-by-Hop Header Processing Procedures

5.1.  Processing the Extension Header Carrying Hop-by-Hop Options

5.1.1.  Configuration Enabling Hop-by-Hop Header Processing

5.2.  Hop-by-Hop Options Processing

5.2.1.  Router Alert Option

5.2.2.  Configuration of Hop-by-Hop Options Processing

6.  Defining New Hop-by-Hop Options

6.1.  Example of Robust Usage

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  Normative References

10. Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

6

6

7

7

9

10

10

11

12

12

13

13

15

15

This document specifies procedures for processing IPv6 Hop-by-Hop options in IPv6 routers and
 to make
hosts. It modifies the procedures specified in the IPv6 Protocol Specification
processing of the IPv6 Hop-by-Hop Options header practical with the goal of making IPv6 Hop-
by-Hop options useful to deploy and use at IPv6 routers and hosts.

[RFC8200]

An IPv6 packet includes Hop-by-Hop options by including a Hop-by-Hop Options header. The
current list of defined Hop-by-Hop options can be found at
document is to set the minimum requirements for router processing of Hop-by-Hop options. It
also discusses how Hop-by-Hop options are used by hosts. This document does not propose a
specific bound to the number or size of Hop-by-Hop options that ought to be processed.

. The focus for this

[IANA-HBH]

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

This document updates

[RFC8200]
.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Terminology

This document uses the following loosely defined terms:

Forwarding Plane:

IPv6 routers exchange user or applications data through the Forwarding

Plane. Routers process fields contained in IPv6 packet headers. However, they do not process
information contained in packet payloads.

Control Plane:

IPv6 routers exchange control information through the Control Plane. The

Control Plane processes the management and routing information exchanged with other
routers.

Fast Path:

A path through a router that is optimized for forwarding packets. The Fast Path might
be supported by Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs), a Network Processor (NP), or
other special purpose hardware. This is the typical processing path within a router taken by
the Forwarding Plane.

Slow Path:

A path through a router that is capable of general purpose processing and is not

optimized for any particular function. This processing path is used for packets that require
special processing or that differ from assumptions made in Fast Path heuristics or to process
router control protocols used by the Control Plane.

Full Forwarding Rate:

The rate at which a router can forward packets without adversely

impacting the aggregate forwarding rate. For example, a router could process packets with
Hop-by-Hop options at a rate that allows it to maintain the full speed on its outgoing
interfaces, which is sometimes called "wire speed".

Source:

The node originating the packet.

[RFC6192]

 is an example of how designs can separate Control Plane and Forwarding Plane

NOTE:
functions. The separation between hardware and software processing described in
does not apply to all router architectures. However, a router that performs all or most processing
in software might still incur more processing cost when providing special processing for Hop-by-
Hop options.

[RFC6398]

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

4.  Background

In early versions of the IPv6 protocol specification
were required to be processed by all nodes: routers and hosts. This proved to not be practical in
current high speed routers, as observed in
high-performance routers will either ignore it or assign packets containing it to a slow processing
path". The reasons behind this include the following:

: "it is to be expected that

Section 2.2 of [RFC7045]

, Hop-by-Hop options

[RFC1883] [RFC2460]

•

The inability to process Hop-by-Hop options at the Full Forwarding Rate can result in issues.
In some cases, Hop-by-Hop options would be sent to the control/management components
that run on the Slow Path. This could degrade a router's performance and also its ability to
process critical control traffic, both of which could be exploited as a Denial-of-Service (DoS)
attack against the router.

•

If a subset of packets within a flow includes Hop-by-Hop options, it could lead to an
increased number of reordered packets and greater reordering distances for packets
delivered to the destination. Such reordering could occur if the Hop-by-Hop Options header
is included only in some packets or if a specific Hop-by-Hop option results in different
processing for some of the packets within the flow. Significant reordering of packets within a
flow can negatively impact the performance of upper-layer protocols and should therefore
be avoided.

•

Packets could include multiple Hop-by-Hop options. Too many options could make the
previous issues worse by increasing the resources required to process them. The total size of
the options determines the number of header bytes that might need to be processed.
Measurements
public Internet is currently higher for packets that include Options that result in a short total
Extension Header (EH) Chain size (i.e., less than 40 bytes).

 show that the probability of successful transmission across the

[Cus23a]

[RFC6564]
incorporated into

 specifies a uniform format for new IPv6 Extension Headers, and this update was

Section 4.8 of [RFC8200]

 (note that

[RFC8200]

 obsoleted

[RFC2460]

).

When the IPv6 protocol specification was updated and published in July 2017 as
procedures relating to Hop-by-Hop options were specified (paragraphs 5 and 6 of
[RFC8200]

) as follows:

[RFC8200]
Section 4 of

, the

The Hop-by-Hop Options header is not inserted or deleted, but may be examined or
processed by any node along a packet's delivery path, until the packet reaches the node
(or each of the set of nodes, in the case of multicast) identified in the Destination
Address field of the IPv6 header. The Hop-by-Hop Options header, when present, must
immediately follow the IPv6 header. Its presence is indicated by the value zero in the
Next Header field of the IPv6 header.

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

[RFC2460]

 required that all nodes must examine and process the Hop-by-
NOTE: While
Hop Options header, it is now expected that nodes along a packet's delivery path only
examine and process the Hop-by-Hop Options header if explicitly configured to do so.

The changes meant that an implementation complied with the IPv6 protocol specification even if
it did not process Hop-by-Hop options and that routers were expected to add configuration
information to control whether they process the Hop-by-Hop Options header. In practice, routers
may include configuration options to control which Hop-by-Hop options they will process.

The text regarding the processing of Hop-by-Hop options in
change the processing of these options. It documented how they were being used in the Internet
at the time RFC 8200 was published (see
publishing the IPv6 protocol specification as an IETF Standard.

). This was a constraint on

Appendix B of [RFC8200]

 was not intended to

[RFC8200]

The main issues remain:

•

Routers can be configured to drop transit packets containing Hop-by-Hop Options that
require processing by a processor that implements the Control Plane. This could be done to
protect against a DoS attack on the router

[RFC9098] [RFC9288]

.

•

IPv6 packets that include a Hop-by-Hop Options header are dropped by some Internet paths.
A survey in 2015 reported a high loss rate in transit Autonomous Systems (ASes) for packets
that include Hop-by-Hop options
that include Extension Headers are discussed in
confirm this to still be the case for many types of network paths

. The operational implications of IPv6 packets
. Measurements taken in 2023
.

[RFC7872]

[RFC9098]

[Cus23b]

•

Allowing multiple Hop-by-Hop options in a single packet in some cases consumes more
router resources to process these packets. It also adds complexity to the number of
permutations that might need to be processed/configured.

•

Including larger or multiple Hop-by-Hop options in a Hop-by-Hop Options header increases
the number of bytes that need to be processed in forwarding, which in some designs can
impact the cost of processing a packet, and in turn could increase the probability of drop
[RFC7872]
all the header bytes required to successfully process an access control list operating on fields
after the Hop-by-Hop Options header.

. A larger Extension Header could also reduce the probability of a router locating

•

Any option that can be used to force packets into the processor that implements the router's
Control Plane can be exploited as a DoS attack on a transit router by saturating the resources
needed for router management protocols (routing protocols, network management
protocols, etc.), which could cause adverse router operation. This is an issue for the Router
Alert Option
discussed in
resources by a specific packet and/or by using per-function rate-limiters for packets
processed by the Control Plane.

, which intentionally forwards packets to the Control Plane as
. This impact could be mitigated by limiting the use of Control Plane

[RFC2711]
[RFC6398]

Section 3 of [RFC6398]

 includes a summary of processing the IP Router Alert Option:

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

In a nutshell, the IP Router Alert Option does not provide a convenient universal
mechanism to accurately and reliably distinguish between IP Router Alert packets of
interest and unwanted IP Router Alert packets. This, in turn, creates a security concern
when the IP Router Alert Option is used, because, short of appropriate router-
implementation-specific mechanisms, the router slow path is at risk of being flooded by
unwanted traffic.

This is an example of the need to limit the resources that can be consumed when a particular
function is executed and to avoid consuming Control Plane resources where support for a
function has not been configured.

There has been research that has discussed the general problem with dropping packets
containing IPv6 Extension Headers, including the Hop-by-Hop Options header. For example,
[Hendriks]
 states that "Dropping all packets that contain Extension Headers is a bad practice"
and that "The share of traffic containing more than one EH however, is very small. For the design
of hardware able to handle the dynamic nature of EHs, we therefore recommend to support at
least one EH". Operational aspects of the topics discussed in this section are further discussed in
[HBH]
.

"Transmission and Processing of IPv6 Extension Headers"
nodes should process Extension Headers. This document is generally consistent with
and addresses an issue that was raised for discussion when
by
consequently clarifies the description in
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]
.

 as described in the next section and

. This document updates

Section 2.2 of [RFC7045]

[RFC8200]

[RFC7045]

[RFC2460]

[RFC8200]

 clarifies how intermediate
[RFC7045]

 was updated and replaced

, using the language of BCP 14

This document defines a set of procedures for the Hop-by-Hop Options header that are intended
to make the processing of Hop-by-Hop options practical in modern routers. The common cases
are that some Hop-by-Hop options will be processed across the Internet, while others will only be
processed within a limited domain
that network segment that relies on one or more Hop-by-Hop options).

 (e.g., where a specific service is made available in

[RFC8799]

5.  Hop-by-Hop Header Processing Procedures

[RFC8200]
This section describes several changes to
Hop-by-Hop options Extension Header, and Section 5.2 describes the processing of individual
Hop-by-Hop options. These sections update the text in paragraph 6 of
as noted in Section 5.2, modify

. Section 5.1 describes the processing of the

Section 4.2 of [RFC8200]
.

Section 4 of [RFC8200]

 and,

5.1.  Processing the Extension Header Carrying Hop-by-Hop Options

When a packet includes one or more Extension Headers, the Next Header field of the IPv6
Header identifies the type of Extension Header. It does not identify the transport protocol.

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

The Extension Header used to carry Hop-by-Hop options is defined in
and is identified by a Next Header value of 0 in the IPv6 header.
this Hop-by-Hop Options header to appear immediately after the IPv6 header.
requires that a Hop-by-Hop Options header only appear at most once in a packet.

Section 4.1 of [RFC8200]
[RFC8200]

Section 4.3 of [RFC8200]

 requires
 also

The Hop-by-Hop Options header as defined in
options.

[RFC8200]

 can contain one or more Hop-by-Hop

Routers that process the Hop-by-Hop Options header
this document. Exceptions to this
with a Hop-by-Hop Options header to protect downstream devices that do not comply with this
specification (see

 include routers that are configured to drop packets

 do so using the method defined in

[RFC9288]

SHOULD

SHOULD

).

MUST

Even if a router does not process the Hop-by-Hop Options header (for example, when based on
configuration), it
after the Hop-by-Hop Options header. A router
an Extension Header carrying Hop-by-Hop options. A configuration could control whether
normal processing skips any or all of the Hop-by-Hop options carried in the Hop-by-Hop Options
header.

 forward the packet normally based on the remaining Extension Header(s)
 drop a packet solely because it contains

MUST NOT

It is expected that the Hop-by-Hop Options header will be processed by the destination(s). Hosts
 process the Hop-by-Hop Options header in received packets. A constrained host is an
SHOULD
example of a node that does not process the Hop-by-Hop Options header. If a destination does
not process the Hop-by-Hop Options header, it
normally.

 process the remainder of the packet

MUST

5.1.1.  Configuration Enabling Hop-by-Hop Header Processing

Section 4 of [RFC8200]
local configuration. The text is:

 allows a router to control its processing of IPv6 Hop-by-Hop options by

[RFC2460]

NOTE: While
Hop Options header, it is now expected that nodes along the path only examine and
process the Hop-by-Hop Options header if explicitly configured to do so.

 required that all nodes must examine and process the Hop-by-

This document clarifies that a configuration could control whether processing skips any specific
Hop-by-Hop options carried in the Hop- by-Hop Options header. A router that does not process
the contents of the Hop-by-Hop Options header does not process any of the Option Types
contained in the Hop-by-Hop Options header.

5.2.  Hop-by-Hop Options Processing

A Source creating packets with a Hop-by-Hop Options header
robust to network nodes selectively processing only some of the Hop-by-Hop options that are
included in the packet or that forward packets without the option(s) being processed (see Section
6.1). A Source

, based on local configuration, allow only one Hop-by-Hop option to be

 use a method that is

SHOULD

MAY

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

included in a packet, or it could allow more than one Hop-by-Hop option but limit their size to
increase the likelihood of successful transfer across a network path. Because some routers might
only process one or a limited number of options in the Hop-by-Hop Options header, Sources are
motivated to order the placement of Hop-by-Hop options within the Hop-by-Hop Options header
in decreasing order of importance for their processing by nodes on the path.

A router configuration needs to avoid vulnerabilities that arise when it cannot process the first
Hop-by-Hop option at the Full Forwarding Rate. Therefore, a router
 be configured
to process the first Hop-by-Hop option if this adversely impacts the aggregate forwarding rate. A
router
these also do not adversely impact the aggregate forwarding rate.

 process additional Hop-by-Hop options, if configured to do so, providing that

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

 behave in the same way specified for an unrecognized Option Type when the action bits

If a router is unable to process a specific Hop-by-Hop option (or is not configured to do so), it
SHOULD
are set to "00", and it
Hop-by-Hop Options header. This field specifies the length of the Options Header in 8-octet units.
After skipping an option, the router continues processing the remaining options in the header.
Skipped options do not need to be verified.

 skip the remaining options using the "Hdr Ext Len" field in the

SHOULD

The Router Alert Option
that the packet needs additional processing, which is usually done in the Control Plane; see
Section 5.2.1.

 is an exception to this because it is designed to tell a router

[RFC2711]

Section 4.2 of [RFC8200]
highest-order 2 bits specify the action that must be taken if the processing IPv6 node does not
recognize the Option Type. The text is:

 defines the Option Type identifiers as internally encoded such that their

   00 - skip over this option and continue processing the header.

   01 - discard the packet.

   10 - discard the packet and, regardless of whether or not the
        packet's Destination Address was a multicast address,
        send an ICMP Parameter Problem, Code 2, message to the
        packet's Source Address, pointing to the unrecognized
        Option Type.

   11 - discard the packet and, only if the packet's Destination
        Address was not a multicast address, send an ICMP Parameter
        Problem, Code 2, message to the packet's Source Address,
        pointing to the unrecognized Option Type.

This document modifies this behavior for the "01", "10", and "11" action bits so that if a router is
unable to process a specific Hop-by-Hop option (or is not configured to do so), it
 behave
in the same way specified for an unrecognized Option Type when the action bits are set to "00". It
also modifies the behavior for values "10" and "11" in the case where the packet is discarded and
the node
Source Address, pointing to the unrecognized Option Type.

 send an ICMP Parameter Problem, Code 2

, message to the packet's

[RFC4443]

SHOULD

MAY

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

The modified text for values "01", "10", and "11" is:

   01 - MAY discard the packet, if so configured. Nodes should not
        rely on routers dropping these unrecognized Option Types.

   10 - MAY discard the packet, if so configured, regardless of
        whether or not the packet's Destination Address was a
        multicast address. If the packet was discarded, an ICMP
        Parameter Problem, Code 2, message MAY be sent to the
        packet's Source Address, pointing to the unrecognized
        Option Type.

   11 - MAY discard the packet, if so configured. If the packet
        was discarded and the packet's Destination Address was
        not a multicast address, an ICMP Parameter Problem,
        Code 2, message MAY be sent to the packet's Source
        Address, pointing to the unrecognized Option Type.

When an ICMP Parameter Problem, Code 2, message is delivered to the Source, it indicates that at
least one node on the path has failed to recognize the option
message incurs additional router processing. Reception of this message is not guaranteed;
routers might be unable to be configured so that they do not generate these messages, and they
are not always forwarded to the Source. The motivation here is to loosen the requirement to
send an ICMPv6 Parameter Problem message when a router forwards a packet without
processing the list of all options.

. Generating any ICMP

[RFC4443]

5.2.1.  Router Alert Option

The purpose of the Router Alert Option
additional processing in the Control Plane.

[RFC2711]

 is to tell a router that the packet needs

The Router Alert Option includes a two-octet Value field that describes the protocol that is carried
in the packet. The current specified values can be found in the "IPv6 Router Alert Option Values"
IANA registry

[IANA-RA]
.

DISCUSSION

The function of a Router Alert Option can result in the processing that this specification is
proposing to eliminate, that is, instructing a router to process the packet in the Control Plane.
This processing causes concerns, which are discussed in Section 4. One approach would be to
deprecate this, because current usage beyond the local network appears to be limited, and
packets containing Hop-by-Hop options are frequently dropped. Deprecation would allow
current implementations to continue, and its use could be phased out over time.

The Router Alert Option could potentially be used with new functions that have to be
processed in the Control Plane. Keeping this as the single exception for processing in the
Control Plane with the restrictions that follow is a reasonable compromise to allow future
flexibility. These restrictions are compatible with

Section 5 of [RFC6398]
.

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

As noted in
configuration option to simply ignore the presence of 'IP Router Alert' in IPv4 and IPv6 packets."

, "Implementations of the IP Router Alert Option

[RFC6398]

 offer the

SHOULD

A node that is configured to process a Router Alert Option
infrastructure attack that could result from processing in the Control Plane. This might include
some combination of an access control list to only permit access from trusted nodes, rate limiting
of processing, or other methods

 protect itself from an

[RFC6398]
.

MUST

[RFC2711]

, the top two bits of the Option Type for the Router Alert Option are

As specified in
always set to "00", indicating that the node should skip over this option as if it does not recognize
the Option Type and continue processing the header. An implementation that does recognize the
Router Alert Option
 verify that the Router Alert Option contains a protocol, as indicated
by the Value field in the Router Alert Option, that is configured as a protocol of interest to that
[RFC6398]
router. A verified packet
.
Otherwise, the router implementation
and forwarding rules.

 be sent to the Control Plane for further processing

 forward this packet subject to all normal policies

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

5.2.2.  Configuration of Hop-by-Hop Options Processing

A router can be configured to process a specific Option. The set of enabled options
configurable by the operator of the router.

SHOULD

 be

A possible approach to implementing this is to maintain a lookup table based on an Option Type
of the IPv6 options that can be processed at the Full Forwarding Rate. This would allow a router
to quickly determine if an option is supported and can be processed. If the option is not
supported, then the router processes the option as described in Section 5.1 of this document.

The actions of the lookup table should be configurable by the operator of the router.

6.  Defining New Hop-by-Hop Options

This section updates

Section 4.8 of [RFC8200]
.

Any future new IPv6 Hop-by-Hop options should be designed to be processed at the Full
Forwarding Rate and should have the following characteristics:

•

New Hop-by-Hop options should be designed to ensure the router can process the options at
the Full Forwarding Rate. That is, they should be simple to process.

•

New Hop-by-Hop options should be defined with the Action type (highest-order 2 bits of the
Option Type) set to "00", which enables skipping over this option and continuing with the
processing of the header if a router does not recognize the option.

•

The size of Hop-by-Hop options should not extend beyond what can be expected to be
executed at the Full Forwarding Rate. A larger Hop-by-Hop Options header can increase the
likelihood that a packet will be dropped

[Cus23b]

.

•

New Hop-by-Hop options should be designed with the expectation that a router might be
configured to only process a subset of Hop-by-Hop options (e.g., the first option) in the Hop-
by-Hop Options header.

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

•

The design of protocols that use new Hop-by-Hop options should consider that a router may
drop packets containing the new Hop-by-Hop option.

If a new Hop-by-Hop option does not meet these criteria, its specification must include a detailed
explanation why that is the case and show that there is a reasonable expectation that the option
can still proceed at the Full Forwarding Rate. This is consistent with [RFC6564]. This is consistent
with

[RFC6564]
.

The general issue of robust operation of packets with new Hop-by-Hop options is described in
Section 6.1.

6.1.  Example of Robust Usage

Recent measurement surveys (e.g.,
can cause the packets to be dropped by some Internet paths. In a limited domain, routers can be
configured or updated to provide support for any required Hop-by-Hop options.

) show that packets that include Extension Headers

[Cus23a]

The primary motivation of this document is to make it more practical to use Hop-by-Hop options
beyond such a limited domain, with the expectation that applications can improve the quality of
or add new features to their offered service when the path successfully forwards packets with
the required Hop-by-Hop options and otherwise refrains from using these options. The focus is
on incremental deployability. A protocol feature (such as using Hop-by-Hop options) is
incrementally deployable if early adopters gain some benefit on the paths being used, even
though other paths do not support the protocol feature. A Source ought to order the Hop-by-Hop
options that are carried in the Hop-by-Hop Options header in decreasing order of importance for
processing by nodes on the path.

Methods can be developed that do not rely upon all routers to implement a specific Hop-by-Hop
option (e.g.,
) and that are robust when the current path drops packets that contain a
Hop-by-Hop option (e.g.,

[RFC9098]

[RFC9268]

).

For example, an application can be designed to first send a test packet that includes the required
option or combination of options and then send other packets without including the option. The
application does not send additional packets that include this option (or set of options) until the
test packet(s) is acknowledged. The need for potential loss recovery when a path drops these test
packets can be avoided by choosing packets that do not carry application data that needs to be
reliably delivered.

Since the set of nodes forming a path can change with time, this discovery process ought to be
repeated from time to time. The process of sending packets both with and without a specific
header to discover whether a path can support a specific header is sometimes called "racing".
Transport protocol racing is explained in
described in

, and A/B protocol feature testing is

[TAPS-ARCH]

[Tram17]
.

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

7.  IANA Considerations

This document updates the processing of Hop-by-Hop options. IANA has added this document as
an additional reference for the "Destination Options and Hop-by-Hop Options" registry in the
"Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Parameters" registry group

[IANA-HBH]
.

8.  Security Considerations

Security issues caused by including IPv6 Hop-by-Hop options are well known and have been
documented in several places, including
main issue, as noted in Section 4, is that any mechanism that can be used to force packets into the
router's Control Plane or Slow Path can be exploited as a DoS attack on a router by saturating the
resources needed for router management (routing protocols, network management protocols,
etc.), and this can cause the router to fail or perform suboptimally.

[RFC6398] [RFC6192] [RFC7045]

[RFC9098]

, and

. The

,

,

While Hop-by-Hop options are not required to be processed in the Control Plane, the Router Alert
Option is the one exception that is designed to be processed in the Control Plane.

[RFC9098]

Some IPv6 nodes implement features that access more of the protocol information than a typical
IPv6 router (e.g.,
). Examples are nodes that provide DoS mitigation, firewall/access
control, traffic engineering, or traffic normalization. These nodes could be configured to drop
packets when they are unable to access and process all Extension Headers or are unable to locate
and process the higher-layer packet information. This document provides guidance on the
requirements concerning Hop-by-Hop options.

Finally, this document notes that Internet protocol processing needs to be robust for malformed/
malicious protocol fields. For example, a packet with an excessive number of options could
consume significant resources; inclusion of a large Extension Header could potentially cause an
on-path router to be unable to utilize hardware optimizations to process later headers (e.g., to
perform equal cost multipath forwarding or port filtering). This requirement is not specific to
Hop-by-Hop options. It is important that implementations fail gracefully when a malformed or
malicious Hop-by-Hop option is encountered.

This document changes how the Hop-by-Hop Options header is processed, which significantly
reduces the attack surface. These changes include the following:

•

A router configuration needs to avoid vulnerabilities that arise when it cannot process a
Hop-by-Hop option at the Full Forwarding Rate; therefore, it
process the Hop-by-Hop option if it adversely impacts the aggregate forwarding rate. Instead,
it
action bits are set to "00", as specified in Section 5.2.

 behave in the same way specified for an unrecognized Option Type when the

 be configured to

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

•

This document adds criteria for the Router Alert Option (Section 5.2.1) to allow control over
how it is processed and describes how a node configured to support these options must
protect itself from attacks by using the Router Alert Option.

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

•

This document sets the expectation that if a packet includes a Hop-by-Hop Options header,
the packet will be forwarded across the network path.

•

MAY

 include a single Hop-by-Hop option (based on local configuration) or

A Source
configured to include more Hop-by-Hop options. The configuration of intermediate nodes
determines whether a node processes any of these options, and if so, which ones and how
many.

MAY

 be

•

This document adds guidance for the design of any future new Hop-by-Hop option that
reduces the computational requirements and encourages a limit to their size.

The intent of this document is to highlight that these changes significantly reduce the security
issues relating to processing the IPv6 Hop-by-Hop Options header and enable Hop-by-Hop
options to be safely used in the Internet.

9.  Normative References

[IANA-HBH]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

,

IANA "Destination Options and Hop-by-Hop Options" <https://www.iana.org/
assignments/ipv6-parameters/>

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

.

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2017,

,

,

10.  Informative References

[Cus23a]

[Cus23b]

[HBH]

 and

Custura, A.
Edition" IEPG Meeting: IETF 116
ietf116/eh.pdf>
.

,

,

G. Fairhurst "Internet Measurements: IPv6 Extension Header

, March 2023,

<http://www.iepg.org/2023-03-26-

,

,

Custura, A. Secchi, R. Boswell, E.
IPv6?" Computer Communications, vol. 214, pp. 90-99 DOI 10.1016/j.comcom.
,
2023.10.006
<https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0140366423003705>

G. Fairhurst "Is it possible to extend

, January 2024,

, and

.

,

,

,

,

Peng, S. Li, Z. Xie, C. Qin, Z.
,
Processing of the Hop-by-Hop Options Header" Work in Progress Internet-
Draft, draft-ietf-v6ops-hbh-10
doc/html/draft-ietf-v6ops-hbh-10>

,
, 16 February 2024,

G. S. Mishra "Operational Issues with

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/

, and

,

,

.

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

[Hendriks]

[IANA-RA]

[RFC1883]

[RFC2460]

[RFC2711]

[RFC4443]

[RFC6192]

[RFC6398]

[RFC6564]

[RFC7045]

[RFC7872]

[RFC8799]

,

Hendriks, L. Velan, P. Schmidt, RO. Boer, P.
,
,
behind IPv6 Extension Headers" 2017 Network Traffic Measurement and
Analysis Conference (TMA) DOI 10.23919/TMA.2017.8002912
<http://dl.ifip.org/db/conf/tma/tma2017/tma2017_paper22.pdf>

, and

, August 2017,

A. Aiko "Threats and Surprises

,

,

,

.

,

IANA "IPv6 Router Alert Option Values" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/
ipv6-routeralert-values/>

,

.

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" RFC

,

,

, December 1995,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" RFC

,

,

, December 1998,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Deering, S.
 and
1883 DOI 10.17487/RFC1883
,
rfc1883>

.

Deering, S.
 and
2460 DOI 10.17487/RFC2460
,
rfc2460>

.

Partridge, C.
RFC2711

 and

A. Jackson "IPv6 Router Alert Option" RFC 2711 DOI 10.17487/

,

,

, October 1999,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2711>

,
.

, and

Conta, A. Deering, S.
,
(ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD 89 RFC
4443 DOI 10.17487/RFC4443
,
rfc4443>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

M. Gupta, Ed. "Internet Control Message Protocol

, March 2006,

,

,

.

,

Dugal, D. Pignataro, C.
, and
6192 DOI 10.17487/RFC6192
,
rfc6192>

.

,

R. Dunn "Protecting the Router Control Plane" RFC
, March 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Le Faucheur, F., Ed. "IP Router Alert Considerations and Usage" BCP 168 RFC
6398 DOI 10.17487/RFC6398
,
rfc6398>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2011,

,

,

,

.

,

Krishnan, S. Woodyatt, J. Kline, E. Hoagland, J.
,
Format for IPv6 Extension Headers" RFC 6564 DOI 10.17487/RFC6564
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6564>
2012,
.

, and

M. Bhatia "A Uniform
,

, April

,

,

 and

Carpenter, B.
Headers" RFC 7045 DOI 10.17487/RFC7045
editor.org/info/rfc7045>

,

,

,

.

S. Jiang "Transmission and Processing of IPv6 Extension

, December 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Gont, F. Linkova, J. Chown, T.
Packets with IPv6 Extension Headers in the Real World" RFC 7872 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7872>
10.17487/RFC7872

W. Liu "Observations on the Dropping of
,

, June 2016,

, and

.

,

,

,

Carpenter, B.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8799

 and

B. Liu "Limited Domains and Internet Protocols" RFC 8799

,

,

,

, July 2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8799>

.

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

[RFC9098]

[RFC9268]

[RFC9288]

[TAPS-ARCH]

[Tram17]

,

,

Gont, F. Hilliard, N. Doering, G. Kumari, W. Huston, G.
"Operational Implications of IPv6 Packets with Extension Headers" RFC 9098
DOI 10.17487/RFC9098
rfc9098>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2021,

W. Liu
,
,

, and

,

,

.

,

 and

Hinden, R.
,
9268 DOI 10.17487/RFC9268
,
, August 2022,
rfc9268>

.

G. Fairhurst "IPv6 Minimum Path MTU Hop-by-Hop Option" RFC

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

 and

W. Liu "Recommendations on the Filtering of IPv6 Packets

Gont, F.
Containing IPv6 Extension Headers at Transit Routers" RFC 9288 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9288

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9288>

, August 2022,

,
.

,

,

,

Pauly, T., Ed. Trammell, B., Ed. Brunstrom, A. Fairhurst, G.
C. Perkins
,
"Architecture and Requirements for Transport Services" Work in Progress
,
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-taps-arch-19
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-taps-arch-19>

,
<https://
, 9 November 2023,

, and

,

,

.

,

,

Trammell, B. Kühlewind, M. De Vaere, P. Learmonth, I.
, and
"Tracking Transport-Layer Evolution with PATHspider" ANRW '17: Proceedings
,
of the 2017 Applied Networking Research Workshop DOI
10.1145/3106328.3106336
final16.pdf>
.

<https://irtf.org/anrw/2017/anrw17-

G. Fairhurst

, July 2017,

,

,

,

Acknowledgments

,
,

Helpful comments were received from
Herbert Cheng Li Éric Vyncke Greg Mirsky Xiao Min Fernando Gont Darren Dukes Peng
,
Shuping Dave Thaler Ana Custura Tim Winters Jingrong Xie Lorenzo Colitti Toerless Eckert
Suresh Krishnan Mikael Abrahamsson Adrian Farrel Jie Dong Jen Linkova Erik Kline
other members of the 6MAN Working Group.

Brian Carpenter Ron Bonica Ole Troan Mike Heard Tom
,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Robert M. Hinden
Check Point Software
100 Oracle Parkway, Suite 800
Redwood City CA 94065
,
United States of America
Email:

bob.hinden@gmail.com

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9673

HBH Options Processing

October 2024

Godred Fairhurst
University of Aberdeen
School of Engineering
Fraser Noble Building
Aberdeen
AB24 3UE
United Kingdom
Email:

gorry@erg.abdn.ac.uk

Hinden & Fairhurst

Standards Track

Page 16

