Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9266
5801, 5802, 5929, 7677
Standards Track
July 2022
2070-1721
S. Whited

RFC 9266
Channel Bindings for TLS 1.3

Abstract

This document deﬁnes a channel binding type, tls-exporter, that is compatible with TLS 1.3 in
accordance with RFC 5056, "On the Use of Channel Bindings to Secure Channels". Furthermore, it
updates the default channel binding to the new binding for versions of TLS greater than 1.2. This
document updates RFCs 5801, 5802, 5929, and 7677.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9266
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Whited

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9266

Channel Bindings for TLS 1.3

July 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Conventions and Terminology

2.  The 'tls-exporter' Channel Binding Type

3.  TLS 1.3 with SCRAM or GSS-API over SASL

4.  Security Considerations

4.1.  Uniqueness of Channel Bindings

4.2.  Use with Legacy TLS

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  Registration of Channel Binding Type

5.2.  Registration of Channel Binding TLS Exporter Label

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

[RFC5929]

[RFC7627]

[TRIPLE-HANDSHAKE]

 was found to be susceptible to the

. While TLS 1.3 uses a complete transcript hash akin to the

The "tls-unique" channel binding type deﬁned in
"triple handshake vulnerability"
extension deﬁned in
extended master secret procedures, the safety of channel bindings with TLS 1.3 was not analyzed
as part of the core protocol work, so the speciﬁcation of channel bindings for TLS 1.3 was
 notes the lack of channel bindings for TLS 1.3; this document
deferred.
deﬁnes such channel bindings and ﬁlls that gap. Furthermore, this document updates
[RFC5929]
by adding an additional unique channel binding type, "tls-exporter", that replaces some usage of
"tls-unique".

 without the extended master secret

Appendix C.5 of [RFC8446]

1.1.  Conventions and Terminology

Throughout this document, the acronym "EKM" is used to refer to "Exported Keying Material" as
deﬁned in

[RFC5705]

.

Whited

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9266

Channel Bindings for TLS 1.3

July 2022

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  The 'tls-exporter' Channel Binding Type

Channel binding mechanisms are not useful until TLS implementations expose the required data.
To facilitate this, "tls-exporter" uses Exported Keying Material (EKM), which is already widely
exposed by TLS implementations. The EKM is obtained using the keying material exporters for
TLS, as deﬁned in

, by supplying the following inputs:

Section 7.5 of [RFC8446]

[RFC5705]

 and

Label:

The ASCII string "EXPORTER-Channel-Binding" with no terminating NUL.

Context value:

Zero-length string.

Length:

32 bytes.

This channel binding mechanism is deﬁned only when the TLS handshake results in unique
master secrets. This is true of TLS versions prior to 1.3 when the extended master secret extension
of

 is in use, and it is always true for TLS 1.3 (see

Appendix D of [RFC8446]

[RFC7627]

).

3.  TLS 1.3 with SCRAM or GSS-API over SASL

The speciﬁcations for Salted Challenge Response Authentication Mechanism (SCRAM)
[RFC7677]
 and Generic Security Service Application Program Interface (GSS-API) over Simple
 deﬁne "tls-unique" as the default channel
Authentication and Security Layer (SASL)
[RFC5801]
binding to use over TLS. As "tls-unique" is not deﬁned for TLS 1.3 (and greater), this document
updates
 to use "tls-exporter" as the default channel binding
over TLS 1.3 (and greater). Note that this document does not change the default channel binding
, which is still "tls-unique" (also note that RFC 5246
for SCRAM mechanisms over TLS 1.2
has been obsoleted by RFC 8446).

,
[RFC5801] [RFC5802]

[RFC7677]

[RFC5246]

[RFC5802]

, and

Additionally, this document updates the aforementioned documents to make "tls-exporter" the
mandatory-to-implement channel binding if any channel bindings are implemented for TLS 1.3.
Implementations that support channel binding over TLS 1.3

 implement "tls-exporter".

MUST

4.  Security Considerations

The channel binding type deﬁned in this document is constructed so that disclosure of the
channel binding data does not leak secret information about the TLS channel and does not aﬀect
the security of the TLS channel.

The derived data
[RFC5056]
protect privileged information.

MUST NOT

. In particular, implementations

MUST NOT

 use channel binding as a secret key to

 be used for any purpose other than channel bindings as described in

Whited

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9266

Channel Bindings for TLS 1.3

July 2022

The Security Considerations sections of
document.

[RFC5056] [RFC5705]
,

, and

[RFC8446]

 apply to this

4.1.  Uniqueness of Channel Bindings

The deﬁnition of channel bindings in
as being one that is unique to the channel endpoints and unique over time, that is, a value that is
unique to a speciﬁc instance of the lower-layer security protocol. When TLS is the lower-layer
security protocol, as for the channel binding type deﬁned in this document, this concept of
uniqueness corresponds to uniquely identifying the speciﬁc TLS connection.

 deﬁnes the concept of a "unique" channel binding

[RFC5056]

However, a stronger form of uniqueness is possible, which would entail uniquely identifying not
just the lower-layer protocol but also the upper-layer application or authentication protocol that
is consuming the channel binding. The distinction is relevant only when there are multiple
instances of an authentication protocol, or multiple distinct authentication protocols, that run
atop the same lower-layer protocol. Such a situation is rare; most consumers of channel bindings
establish an instance of the lower-layer secure protocol, run a single application or
authentication protocol as the upper-layer protocol, then terminate both upper and lower-layer
protocols. In this situation, the stronger form of uniqueness is trivially achieved, given that the
channel binding value is unique in the sense of

[RFC5056]

.

[RFC5056]

; it does not achieve the stronger uniqueness per the upper-layer protocol

The channel binding type deﬁned by this document provides only the weaker type of uniqueness,
as per
instance described above. This stronger form of uniqueness would be useful in that it provides
protection against cross-protocol attacks for the multiple authentication protocols running over
the same instance of the lower-layer protocol, and it provides protection against replay attacks
that seek to replay a message from one instance of an authentication protocol in a diﬀerent
instance of the same authentication protocol, again running over the same instance of the lower-
layer protocol. Both of these properties are highly desirable when performing formal analysis of
upper-layer protocols; if these properties are not provided, such formal analysis is essentially
impossible. In some cases, one or both of these properties may already be provided by speciﬁc
upper-layer protocols, but that is dependent on the mechanism(s) in question, and formal
analysis requires that the property is provided in a generic manner across all potential upper-
layer protocols that exist or might exist in the future.

Accordingly, applications that make use of the channel binding type deﬁned in this document
MUST NOT
given TLS connection. Such applications
conclusion of the upper-layer protocol.

 use the channel binding for more than one authentication mechanism instance on a

 immediately close the TLS connection after the

MUST

4.2.  Use with Legacy TLS

While it is possible to use this channel binding mechanism with TLS versions below 1.3, extra
precaution must be taken to ensure that the chosen cipher suites always result in unique master
secrets. For more information, see
[RFC5705]
[RFC8446]

 (TLS 1.3 always provides unique master secrets, as discussed in
).

 and the Security Considerations section of
Appendix D of

[RFC7627]

Whited

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9266

Channel Bindings for TLS 1.3

July 2022

When TLS renegotiation is enabled on a connection, the "tls-exporter" channel binding type is not
deﬁned for that connection, and implementations

 support it.

MUST NOT

In general, users wishing to take advantage of channel binding should upgrade to TLS 1.3 or later.

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  Registration of Channel Binding Type

IANA has registered tls-exporter in the "Channel-Binding Types" registry:

Channel-binding unique preﬁx:

tls-exporter

Channel-binding type:

unique

Channel type:

TLS

[RFC8446]

Published speciﬁcation:

RFC 9266

Channel-binding is secret:

no

Description:

The EKM value obtained from the current TLS connection.

Intended usage:

COMMON

Person and email address to contact for further information:

Sam Whited

<sam@samwhited.com>

Owner/Change controller name and email address:

IESG

Expert reviewer name and contact information:

IETF KITTEN WG <kitten@ietf.org> or IETF TLS

WG <tls@ietf.org>

Note:

See the published speciﬁcation for advice on the applicability of this channel binding type.

5.2.  Registration of Channel Binding TLS Exporter Label

IANA has added the following registration in the "TLS Exporter Labels" registry under the
"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Parameters" registry:

Value:

EXPORTER-Channel-Binding

DTLS-OK:

Y

Recommended:

Y

Reference:

RFC 9266

Whited

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9266

Channel Bindings for TLS 1.3

July 2022

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5056]

[RFC5705]

[RFC5801]

[RFC5802]

[RFC5929]

[RFC7677]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Williams, N. "On the Use of Channel Bindings to Secure Channels" RFC 5056 DOI
10.17487/RFC5056

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5056>

, November 2007,

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "Keying Material Exporters for Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
,
5705 DOI 10.17487/RFC5705
.
rfc5705>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2010,

,

 and

N. Williams "Using Generic Security Service Application

Josefsson, S.
Program Interface (GSS-API) Mechanisms in Simple Authentication and Security
, July
Layer (SASL): The GS2 Mechanism Family" RFC 5801 DOI 10.17487/RFC5801
2010,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5801>

,

,

,

,

Newman, C. Menon-Sen, A. Melnikov, A.
,
Response Authentication Mechanism (SCRAM) SASL and GSS-API Mechanisms"
,
RFC 5802 DOI 10.17487/RFC5802
.
rfc5802>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

N. Williams "Salted Challenge

, July 2010,

, and

,

,

Altman, J. Williams, N.
10.17487/RFC5929

, and
, July 2010,

,

,

L. Zhu "Channel Bindings for TLS" RFC 5929 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5929>

,

,

,

Hansen, T. "SCRAM-SHA-256 and SCRAM-SHA-256-PLUS Simple Authentication
,
and Security Layer (SASL) Mechanisms" RFC 7677 DOI 10.17487/RFC7677
November 2015,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7677>

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,
,
Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

6.2.  Informative References

[RFC5246]

Dierks, T.
E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
 and
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
,
,
.
info/rfc5246>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, August 2008,

,

Whited

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9266

Channel Bindings for TLS 1.3

July 2022

[RFC7627]

,

,
M. Ray
Bhargavan, K., Ed. Delignat-Lavaud, A. Pironti, A. Langley, A.
"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Session Hash and Extended Master Secret
,
,
Extension" RFC 7627 DOI 10.17487/RFC7627
editor.org/info/rfc7627>
.

, September 2015,

, and

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

[TRIPLE-HANDSHAKE]

Bhargavan, K. Delignat-Lavaud, A. Fournet, C. Pironti, A.
"Triple Handshakes Considered Harmful: Breaking and Fixing Authentication
over TLS"

<https://www.mitls.org/pages/attacks/3SHAKE>
.

, March 2014,

, and

,

,

,

P. Strub
,

Author's Address

,

Sam Whited
Atlanta GA
United States of America
Email:
URI:

 sam@samwhited.com
 https://blog.samwhited.com/

Whited

Standards Track

Page 7

