Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9525
6125
Standards Track
November 2023
2070-1721
P. Saint-Andre
Independent

R. Salz
Akamai Technologies

RFC 9525
Service Identity in TLS

Abstract

Many application technologies enable secure communication between two entities by means of
Transport Layer Security (TLS) with Internet Public Key Infrastructure using X.509 (PKIX)
certificates. This document specifies procedures for representing and verifying the identity of
application services in such interactions.

This document obsoletes RFC 6125.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9525
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Motivation

1.2.  Applicability

1.3.  Overview of Recommendations

1.4.  Scope

1.4.1.  In Scope

1.4.2.  Out of Scope

1.5.  Terminology

2.  Identifying Application Services

3.  Designing Application Protocols

4.  Representing Server Identity

4.1.  Rules

4.2.  Examples

5.  Requesting Server Certificates

6.  Verifying Service Identity

6.1.  Constructing a List of Reference Identifiers

6.1.1.  Rules

6.1.2.  Examples

6.2.  Preparing to Seek a Match

6.3.  Matching the DNS Domain Name Portion

6.4.  Matching an IP Address Portion

6.5.  Matching the Application Service Type Portion

6.6.  Outcome

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Wildcard Certificates

7.2.  Uniform Resource Identifiers

3

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

7

8

9

9

10

10

11

11

11

13

13

14

15

15

16

17

17

17

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

7.3.  Internationalized Domain Names

7.4.  IP Addresses

7.5.  Multiple Presented Identifiers

7.6.  Multiple Reference Identifiers

7.7.  Certificate Trust

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Changes from RFC 6125

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Motivation

18

18

18

19

19

19

19

19

20

23

24

24

24

[TLS] [DTLS]
,

 being a notable example), it has some notion of the server's identity (e.g., "the website at

The visible face of the Internet largely consists of services that employ a client-server
architecture in which a client communicates with an application service. When a client
communicates with an application service using
[QUIC]
(
bigcompany.example") while attempting to establish secure communication. Likewise, during
TLS negotiation, the server presents its notion of the service's identity in the form of a public key
certificate that was issued by a certification authority (CA) in the context of the Internet Public
Key Infrastructure using X.509
"reference identity" and the server's "presented identity"; more formal definitions are given
later. A client needs to verify that the server's presented identity matches its reference identity so
it can deterministically and automatically authenticate the communication.

. Informally, we can think of these identities as the client's

, or a protocol built on those

[PKIX]

This document defines procedures for how clients perform this verification. It therefore defines
requirements on other parties, such as the certification authorities that issue certificates, the
service administrators requesting them, and the protocol designers defining interactions
between clients and servers.

This document obsoletes RFC 6125
under Appendix A.

[VERIFY]

. Changes from RFC 6125

[VERIFY]

 are described

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

1.2.  Applicability

This document does not supersede the rules for certificate issuance or validation specified by
[PKIX]
. That document also governs any certificate-related topic on which this document is silent.
This includes certificate syntax, extensions such as name constraints or extended key usage, and
handling of certification paths.

This document addresses only name forms in the leaf "end entity" server certificate. It does not
address the name forms in the chain of certificates used to validate a certificate, nor does it
create or check the validity of such a chain. In order to ensure proper authentication,
applications need to verify the entire certification path.

1.3.  Overview of Recommendations

The previous version of this specification,
many IETF standards and tried to generalize best practices (see
details).

[VERIFY]

, surveyed the then-current practice from

Appendix A of [VERIFY]

 for

This document takes the lessons learned since then and codifies them. The following is a
summary of the rules, which are described at greater length in the remainder of this document:

•

Only check DNS domain names via the subjectAltName extension designed for that purpose:
dNSName.

•

Allow use of even more specific subjectAltName extensions where appropriate such as
uniformResourceIdentifier, iPAddress, and the otherName form SRVName.

•

Wildcard support is now the default in certificates. Constrain wildcard certificates so that the
wildcard can only be the complete left-most label of a domain name.

•

Do not include or check strings that look like domain names in the subject's Common Name.

1.4.  Scope

1.4.1.  In Scope

This document applies only to service identities that are used in TLS or DTLS and that are
included in PKIX certificates.

With regard to TLS and DTLS, these security protocols are used to protect data exchanged over a
wide variety of application protocols, which use both the TLS or DTLS handshake protocol and
the TLS or DTLS record layer, either directly or through a profile as in Network Time Security
[NTS]
transport protocols; at present, the most prominent example is QUIC
specified here are intended to apply to all protocols in this extended TLS "family".

. The TLS handshake protocol can also be used with different record layers to define secure

. The rules

[RFC9000]

With regard to PKIX certificates, the primary usage is in the context of the public key
infrastructure described in
Named Entities (DANE)
certificates structured via

 or specific encodings thereof such as

 sometimes use certificates based on PKIX (more precisely,

. In addition, technologies such as DNS-Based Authentication of

), at least in certain

[DANE]

[X.690]

[X.509]

[PKIX]

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

[TLS-SUBCERTS]

modes. Alternatively, a TLS peer could issue delegated credentials that are based on a CA-issued
certificate, as in
through its inclusion in the relevant certificate. The rules specified here are intended to apply
whenever service identities are included in X.509 certificates or credentials that are derived
from such certificates.

. In both cases, a TLS client could learn of a service identity

1.4.2.  Out of Scope

The following topics are out of scope for this specification:

•

Security protocols other than those described above.

•

Keys or certificates employed outside the context of PKIX-based systems.

•

Client or end-user identities. Other than as described above, certificates representing client
identities (e.g., rfc822Name) are beyond the scope of this document.

•

Identification of servers using other than a domain name, an IP address, or an SRV service
 only to the extent that
name. This document discusses Uniform Resource Identifiers
they are expressed in certificates. Other aspects of a service such as a specific resource (the
URI "path" component) or parameters (the URI "query" component) are the responsibility of
specific protocols or URI schemes.

[URI]

•

Certification authority policies. This includes items such as the following:

).

[ACME]

◦
How to certify or validate fully qualified domain names (FQDNs) and application service
types (see
◦
What types or "classes" of certificates to issue and whether to apply different policies for
them.
◦
How to certify or validate other kinds of information that might be included in a certificate
(e.g., organization name).

•

Resolution of DNS domain names. Although the process whereby a client resolves the DNS
domain name of an application service can involve several steps, for the purposes of this
specification, the only relevant consideration is that the client needs to verify the identity of
the entity with which it will communicate once the resolution process is complete. Thus, the
resolution process itself is out of scope for this specification.

•

User interface issues. In general, such issues are properly the responsibility of client
software developers and standards development organizations dedicated to particular
application technologies (for example, see

[WSC-UI]

).

1.5.  Terminology

Because many concepts related to "identity" are often too vague to be actionable in application
protocols, we define a set of more concrete terms for use in this specification.

application service:

A service on the Internet that enables clients to connect for the purpose of

retrieving or uploading information, communicating with other entities, or connecting to a
broader network of services.

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

application service provider:

An entity that hosts or deploys an application service.

application service type:

A formal identifier for the application protocol used to provide a

particular kind of application service at a domain. This often appears as a URI scheme
DNS SRV Service
identifier.

, or an Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN)

[DNS-SRV]

[ALPN]

[URI]

, a

identifier:

A particular instance of an identifier type that is either presented by a server in a

certificate or referenced by a client for matching purposes.

identifier type:

A formally defined category of identifier that can be included in a certificate

and therefore be used for matching purposes. For conciseness and convenience, we define the
following identifier types of interest:

DNS-ID:

A subjectAltName entry of type dNSName as defined in

[PKIX]

.

IP-ID:

A subjectAltName entry of type iPAddress as defined in

[PKIX]

.

SRV-ID:

A subjectAltName entry of type otherName whose name form is SRVName as

defined in

[SRVNAME]

.

URI-ID:

A subjectAltName entry of type uniformResourceIdentifier as defined in

[PKIX]

. See

further discussion in Section 7.2.

PKIX:

The short name for the Internet Public Key Infrastructure using X.509 defined in
That document provides a profile of the X.509v3 certificate specifications and X.509v2
certificate revocation list (CRL) specifications for use on the Internet.

[PKIX]
.

presented identifier:

An identifier presented by a server to a client within a PKIX certificate

when the client attempts to establish secure communication with the server. The certificate
can include one or more presented identifiers of different types, and if the server hosts more
than one domain, then the certificate might present distinct identifiers for each domain.

reference identifier:

An identifier expected by the client when examining presented identifiers.

It is constructed from the source domain and, optionally, an application service type.

Relative Distinguished Name (RDN):

An ASN.1-based construction that is itself a building-block

component of Distinguished Names. See

[LDAP-DN], Section 2
.

source domain:

The FQDN that a client expects an application service to present in the

certificate. This is typically input by a human user, configured into a client, or provided by
reference such as a URL. The combination of a source domain and, optionally, an application
service type enables a client to construct one or more reference identifiers. This specification
covers FQDNs. Use of any names that are not fully qualified is out of scope and may result in
unexpected or undefined behavior.

subjectAltName entry:

An identifier placed in a subjectAltName extension.

subjectAltName extension:

A standard PKIX extension enabling identifiers of various types to

be bound to the certificate subject.

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

subjectName: The name of a PKIX certificate's subject, encoded in a certificate's subject field

(see

[PKIX], Section 4.1.2.6

).

TLS uses the words "client" and "server", where the client is the entity that initiates the
connection. In many cases, this is consistent with common practice, such as a browser
connecting to a web origin. For the sake of clarity, and to follow the usage in
 and related
specifications, we will continue to use the terms client and server in this document. However,
these are TLS-layer roles, and the application protocol could support the TLS server making
requests to the TLS client after the TLS handshake; there is no requirement that the roles at the
application layer match the TLS layer.

[TLS]

Security-related terms used in this document, but not defined here or in
understood in the sense defined in
"identity", "trust", "validate", and "verify".

[SECTERMS]

. Such terms include "attack", "authentication",

[PKIX]

, should be

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Identifying Application Services

This document assumes that an application service is identified by a DNS domain name (e.g.,
bigcompany.example), an IP address (IPv4 or IPv6), or an identifier that contains additional
supplementary information. Supplementary information is limited to the application service
type as expressed in a DNS SRV record (e.g., "the IMAP server at isp.example" for
"_imap.isp.example") or a URI.

In a DNS-ID -- and in the DNS domain name portion of an SRV-ID or URI-ID -- any characters
outside the range described in
represented as A-labels

[US-ASCII]
[IDNA-DEFS]
.

 are prohibited, and internationalized domain labels are

An IP address is either a 4-octet IPv4 address
. The
identifier might need to be converted from a textual representation to obtain this value.

 or a 16-octet IPv6 address

[IPv4]

[IPv6]

From the perspective of the application client or user, some identifiers are direct because they
are provided directly by a human user. This includes runtime input, prior configuration, or
explicit acceptance of a client communication attempt. Other names are indirect because they are
automatically resolved by the application based on user input, such as a target name resolved
from a source name using DNS SRV or the records described in
most for certificate consumption, specifically verification as discussed in this document.

. The distinction matters

[NAPTR]

From the perspective of the application service, some identifiers are unrestricted because they
can be used in any type of service, such as a single certificate being used for both the HTTP and
IMAP services at the host "bigcompany.example". Other identifiers are restricted because they
can only be used for one type of service, such as a special-purpose certificate that can only be
used for an IMAP service. This distinction matters most for certificate issuance.

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

The four identifier types can be categorized as follows:

•

A DNS-ID is direct and unrestricted.

•

An IP-ID is direct and unrestricted.

•

An SRV-ID is typically indirect but can be direct, and it is restricted.

•

A URI-ID is direct and restricted.

It is important to keep these distinctions in mind because best practices for the deployment and
[ALPACA]
use of the identifiers differ. Note that cross-protocol attacks such as those described in
are possible when two different protocol services use the same certificate. This can be addressed
by using restricted identifiers or deploying services so that they do not share certificates. Protocol
 specify which identifiers are mandatory to implement and
specifications
operational guidance when necessary.

 provide

SHOULD

MUST

The Common Name RDN
(it is essentially free-form text) and therefore suffers from ambiguities in interpretation.

 be used to identify a service because it is not strongly typed

MUST NOT

For similar reasons, other RDNs within the subjectName

MUST NOT

 be used to identify a service.

An IP address that is the result of a DNS query is indirect. Use of IP-IDs that are indirect is out of
scope for this document.

The IETF continues to define methods for looking up information needed to make connections to
network services. One recent example is service binding via the "SVCB" and "HTTPS" DNS
resource record (RR) types. This document does not define any identity representation or
verification procedures that are specific to SVCB-compatible records, because the use of such
records during connection establishment does not currently alter any of the PKIX validation
requirements specified herein or in any other relevant specification. For example, the PKIX
validation rules for
resource records defined in
 or
information. However, it is possible that future SVCB mapping documents could specify altered
PKIX rules for new use cases.

 do not change when the client uses the DNS

 to look up connection

[SVCB-FOR-HTTPS]

[DNS-OVER-TLS]

[SVCB-FOR-DNS]

[HTTP]

 and

3.  Designing Application Protocols

This section defines how protocol designers should reference this document, which would
typically be a normative reference in their specification.

A specification

MAY

 choose to allow only one of the identifier types defined here.

If the technology does not use DNS SRV records to resolve the DNS domain names of application
services, then the specification
supported. Note that many existing application technologies use DNS SRV records to resolve the
DNS domain names of application services, but they do not rely on representations of those
records in PKIX certificates by means of SRV-IDs as defined in

 state that SRV-ID as defined in this document is not

[SRVNAME]
.

MUST

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

If the technology does not use URIs to identify application services, then the specification
state that URI-ID as defined in this document is not supported. Note that many existing
application technologies use URIs to identify application services, but they do not rely on
representation of those URIs in PKIX certificates by means of URI-IDs.

MUST

MAY

A technology
then the specification
supported.

 disallow the use of the wildcard character in presented identifiers. If it does so,

MUST

 state that wildcard certificates as defined in this document are not

A protocol can allow the use of an IP address in place of a DNS name. This might use the same
field without distinguishing the type of identifier as, for example, in the "host" components of a
URI. In this case, applications need to be aware that the textual representation of an IPv4 address
is a valid DNS name. The two types can be distinguished by first testing if the identifier is a valid
IPv4 address, as is done by the "first-match-wins" algorithm in

Section 3.2.2 of [URI]
.

4.  Representing Server Identity

This section provides instructions for issuers of certificates.

4.1.  Rules

When a certification authority issues a certificate based on the FQDN at which the application
service provider will provide the relevant application, the following rules apply to the
representation of application service identities. Note that some of these rules are cumulative and
can interact in important ways that are illustrated later in this document.

1.

The certificate

MUST

 include at least one identifier.

2.

SHOULD

The certificate
mandatory because it is legitimate for a certificate to include only an SRV-ID or URI-ID so as
to scope its use to a particular application type.

 include a DNS-ID as a baseline for interoperability. This is not

3.

If the service using the certificate deploys a technology for which the relevant specification
stipulates that certificates should include identifiers of type SRV-ID (e.g., this is true of the
Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP) as described in
certificate
unless the certificate is meant to be scoped to only the protocol in question.

 include an SRV-ID. This identifier type could supplement the DNS-ID,

), then the

SHOULD

[XMPP]

4.

[SIP]

 as specified by

If the service using the certificate deploys a technology for which the relevant specification
stipulates that certificates should include identifiers of type URI-ID (e.g., this is true of the
Session Initiation Protocol
SHOULD
include a URI-ID. The scheme
service type, and the "host" component
protocol specification
 specify which URI schemes are acceptable in URI-IDs contained
in PKIX certificates used for the application protocol (e.g., sip but not sips or tel for SIP as
described in
). Typically, this identifier type would supplement the DNS-ID, unless
the certificate is meant to be scoped to only the protocol in question.

 be that of the protocol associated with the application
 be the FQDN of the service. The application

), then the certificate

[SIP-CERTS]

[SIP-SIPS]

MUST

MUST

MUST

5.

The certificate
explained in Section 7.5.

MAY

 contain more than one DNS-ID, SRV-ID, URI-ID, or IP-ID as further

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

6.

MAY

 include other application-specific identifiers for compatibility with a

The certificate
deployed base, especially identifiers for types that were defined before publication of
[SRVNAME]
out of scope for this specification.

 or for which SRV service names or URI schemes do not exist. Such identifiers are

4.2.  Examples

Consider a simple website at <www.bigcompany.example>, which is not discoverable via DNS SRV
lookups. Because HTTP does not specify the use of URIs in server certificates, a certificate for this
service might include only a DNS-ID of <www.bigcompany.example>.

Consider another website, which is reachable by a fixed IP address of 2001:db8::5c. If the two
sites refer to the same web service, then the certificate might also include this value in an IP-ID to
allow clients to use the fixed IP address as a reference identity.

Consider an IMAP-accessible email server at the host mail.isp.example servicing email
addresses of the form user@isp.example and discoverable via DNS SRV lookups on the
application service name of isp.example. A certificate for this service might include SRV-IDs of
_imap.isp.example and _imaps.isp.example (see
isp.example and mail.isp.example.

) along with DNS-IDs of

[EMAIL-SRV]

Consider a SIP-accessible voice-over-IP (VoIP) server at the host voice.college.example
servicing SIP addresses of the form user@voice.college.example and identified by a URI of
<sip:voice.college.example>. A certificate for this service would include a URI-ID of
<sip:voice.college.example> (see
voice.college.example.

) along with a DNS-ID of

[SIP-CERTS]

Consider an XMPP-compatible instant messaging (IM) server at the host messenger.example that
services IM addresses of the form user@messenger.example and that is discoverable via DNS
SRV lookups on the messenger.example domain. A certificate for this service might include SRV-
[XMPP]
IDs of _xmpp-client.messenger.example and _xmpp-server.messenger.example (see
),
as well as a DNS-ID of messenger.example.

5.  Requesting Server Certificates

This section provides instructions for service providers regarding the information to include in
certificate signing requests (CSRs). In general, service providers
 request certificates that
include all the identifier types that are required or recommended for the application service type
that will be secured using the certificate to be issued.

SHOULD

A service provider
single service; see Section 7.5.

SHOULD

 request certificates with as few identifiers as necessary to identify a

 request a certificate that includes DNS-ID or IP-ID values that identify that service or, if

If the certificate will be used for only a single type of application service, the service provider
SHOULD
appropriate for the application service type, SRV-ID or URI-ID values that limit the deployment
scope of the certificate to only the defined application service type.

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

If the certificate might be used for any type of application service, the service provider
request a certificate that includes only DNS-IDs or IP-IDs. Again, because of multiprotocol attacks,
this practice is discouraged; it can be mitigated by deploying only one service on a host.

SHOULD

If a service provider offers multiple application service types and wishes to limit the applicability
of certificates using SRV-IDs or URI-IDs, it
 request that multiple certificates rather than a
SHOULD
single certificate containing multiple SRV-IDs or URI-IDs each identify a different application
service type. This rule does not apply to application service type "bundles" that identify distinct
access methods to the same underlying application such as an email application with access
methods denoted by the application service types of imap, imaps, pop3, pop3s, and submission as
described in

[EMAIL-SRV]
.

6.  Verifying Service Identity

At a high level, the client verifies the application service's identity by performing the following
actions:

1.

The client constructs a list of reference identifiers it would find acceptable based on the
source domain and, if applicable, the type of service to which the client is connecting.

2.

The server provides its presented identifiers in the form of a PKIX certificate.

3.

The client checks each of its reference identifiers against the server's presented identifiers
for the purpose of finding a match. When checking a reference identifier against a presented
identifier, the client matches the source domain of the identifiers and, optionally, their
application service type.

Naturally, in addition to checking identifiers, a client should perform further checks, such as
expiration and revocation, to ensure that the server is authorized to provide the requested
service. Because such checking is not a matter of verifying the application service identity
presented in a certificate, methods for doing so are out of scope for this document.

6.1.  Constructing a List of Reference Identifiers

6.1.1.  Rules

The client
of the identifiers presented by the server.

MUST

 construct a list of acceptable reference identifiers and

MUST

 do so independently

The inputs used by the client to construct its list of reference identifiers might be a URI that a
user has typed into an interface (e.g., an HTTPS URL for a website), configured account
information (e.g., the domain name of a host for retrieving email, which might be different from
the DNS domain name portion of a username), a hyperlink in a web page that triggers a browser
to retrieve a media object or script, or some other combination of information that can yield a
source domain and an application service type.

This document does not precisely define how reference identifiers are generated. Defining
reference identifiers is the responsibility of applications or protocols that use this document.
Because the security of a system that uses this document will depend on how reference

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

identifiers are generated, great care should be taken in this process. For example, a protocol or
application could specify that the application service type is obtained through a one-to-one
mapping of URI schemes to service types or that the protocol or application supports only a
restricted set of URI schemes. Similarly, it could specify that a domain name or an IP address
taken as input to the reference identifier must be obtained in a secure context such as a
hyperlink embedded in a web page that was delivered over an authenticated and encrypted
channel (for instance, see

 with regard to the web platform).

[SECURE-CONTEXTS]

Naturally, if the inputs themselves are invalid or corrupt (e.g., a user has clicked a hyperlink
provided by a malicious entity in a phishing attack), then the client might end up communicating
with an unexpected application service.

During the course of processing, a client might be exposed to identifiers that look like, but are
not, reference identifiers. For example, DNS resolution that starts at a DNS-ID reference identifier
might produce intermediate domain names that need to be further resolved. Unless an
application defines a process for authenticating intermediate identifiers in a way that then
allows them to be used as a reference identifier (for example, see
values are not reference identifiers and
treating intermediate domain names as reference identifiers removes DNS and DNS resolution
from the attack surface.

 be treated as such. In the DNS case, not

), any intermediate

[SMTP-TLS]

MUST NOT

As one example of the process of generating a reference identifier, from the user input of the URI
<sip:alice@voice.college.example>, a client could derive the application service type sip from the
URI scheme and parse the domain name college.example from the "host" component.

Using the combination of one or more FQDNs or IP addresses, plus optionally an application
service type, the client
 construct its list of reference identifiers in accordance with the
following rules:

MUST

•

If a server for the application service type is typically associated with a URI for security
purposes (i.e., a formal protocol document specifies the use of URIs in server certificates), the
reference identifier

 be a URI-ID.

SHOULD

•

If a server for the application service type is typically discovered by means of DNS SRV
records, the reference identifier

 be an SRV-ID.

SHOULD

•

If the reference identifier is an IP address, the reference identifier is an IP-ID.

•

In the absence of more specific identifiers, the reference identifier is a DNS-ID. A reference
identifier of type DNS-ID can be directly constructed from an FQDN that is (a) contained in or
securely derived from the inputs or (b) explicitly associated with the source domain by
means of user configuration.

Which identifier types a client includes in its list of reference identifiers, and their priority, is a
matter of local policy. For example, a client that is built to connect only to a particular kind of
service might be configured to accept as valid only certificates that include an SRV-ID for that
application service type. By contrast, a more lenient client, even if built to connect only to a
particular kind of service, might include SRV-IDs, DNS-IDs, and IP-IDs in its list of reference
identifiers.

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

6.1.2.  Examples

The following examples are for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to be
comprehensive.

1.

A web browser that is connecting via HTTPS to the website at <https://
www.bigcompany.example/> would have a single reference identifier: a DNS-ID of
www.bigcompany.example.

2.

A web browser connecting to <https://192.0.2.107/> would have a single IP-ID reference
identifier of 192.0.2.107. Likewise, if connecting to <https://[2001:db8::abcd]>, it would
have a single IP-ID reference identifier of 2001:db8::abcd.

3.

A mail user agent that is connecting via IMAPS to the email service at isp.example (resolved
as mail.isp.example) might have three reference identifiers: an SRV-ID of
_imaps.isp.example (see
) and DNS-IDs of isp.example and
 would probably
mail.isp.example. An email user agent that does not support
be explicitly configured to connect to mail.isp.example, whereas an SRV-aware user agent
would derive isp.example from an email address of the form user@isp.example but might
also accept mail.isp.example as the DNS domain name portion of reference identifiers for
the service.

[EMAIL-SRV]

[EMAIL-SRV]

4.

A VoIP user agent that is connecting via SIP to the voice service at voice.college.example
might have only one reference identifier: a URI-ID of sip:voice.college.example (see
CERTS]

).

[SIP-

5.

An IM client that is connecting via XMPP to the IM service at messenger.example might have
three reference identifiers: an SRV-ID of _xmpp-client.messenger.example (see
), a
DNS-ID of messenger.example, and an XMPP-specific XmppAddr of messenger.example (see
[XMPP]

[XMPP]

).

In all these cases, presented identifiers that do not match the reference identifier(s) would be
rejected; for instance:

•

With regard to the first example, a DNS-ID of web.bigcompany.example would be rejected
because the DNS domain name portion does not match www.bigcompany.example.

•

With regard to the third example, a URI-ID of <sip:www.college.example> would be rejected
because the DNS domain name portion does not match "voice.college.example", and a DNS-
ID of "voice.college.example" would be rejected because it lacks the appropriate application
service type portion (i.e., it does not specify a "sip:" URI).

6.2.  Preparing to Seek a Match

Once the client has constructed its list of reference identifiers and has received the server's
presented identifiers, the client checks its reference identifiers against the presented identifiers
for the purpose of finding a match. The search fails if the client exhausts its list of reference
identifiers without finding a match. The search succeeds if any presented identifier matches one
of the reference identifiers, at which point the client

 stop the search.

SHOULD

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

Before applying the comparison rules provided in the following sections, the client might need to
split the reference identifier into components. Each reference identifier produces either a
domain name or an IP address and optionally an application service type as follows:

•

A DNS-ID reference identifier
no application service type.

MUST

 be used directly as the DNS domain name, and there is

•

An IP-ID reference identifier
subjectAltName, with no partial (e.g., network-level) matching. There is no application
service type.

 exactly match the value of an iPAddress entry in

MUST

•

For an SRV-ID reference identifier, the DNS domain name portion is the Name and the
application service type portion is the Service. For example, an SRV-ID of
_imaps.isp.example has a DNS domain name portion of isp.example and an application
service type portion of imaps, which maps to the IMAP application protocol as explained in
[EMAIL-SRV]

.

•

For a reference identifier of type URI-ID, the DNS domain name portion is the "reg-name"
part of the "host" component and the application service type portion is the scheme, as
defined above. Matching only the "reg-name" rule from
name validation (Section 6.3) to DNS domain names or non-IP hostnames. A URI that
contains an IP address might be matched against an IP-ID in place of a URI-ID by some
lenient clients. This document does not describe how a URI that contains no "host"
component can be matched. Note that extraction of the "reg-name" might necessitate
normalization of the URI (as explained in
). For example, a URI-ID of
<sip:voice.college.example> would be split into a DNS domain name portion of
voice.college.example and an application service type of sip (associated with an
application protocol of SIP as explained in

Section 6 of [URI]

 limits the additional domain

[SIP-CERTS]

[URI]

).

If the reference identifier produces a domain name, the client
Section 6.3. If the reference identifier produces an IP address, the client
address; see Section 6.4. If an application service type is present, it
MUST
type; see Section 6.5.

MUST

 match the DNS name; see

 match the IP
MUST
 also match the service

6.3.  Matching the DNS Domain Name Portion

This section describes how the client must determine if the presented DNS name matches the
reference DNS name. The rules differ depending on whether the domain to be checked is an
internationalized domain name, as defined in Section 2, or not. For clients that support presented
identifiers containing the wildcard character "*", this section also specifies a supplemental rule
for such "wildcard certificates". This section uses the description of labels and domain names in
[DNS-CONCEPTS]
.

If the DNS domain name portion of a reference identifier is not an internationalized domain
Section 3.5 of
name (i.e., an FQDN that conforms to "preferred name syntax" as described in
[DNS-CONCEPTS]
MUST
comparison, as clarified by

 be performed by comparing the set of domain name labels using a case-insensitive ASCII

), then the matching of the reference identifier against the presented identifier

. For example, WWW.BigCompany.Example would be lower-

[DNS-CASE]

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

cased to www.bigcompany.example for comparison purposes. Each label
the names to be considered a match, except as supplemented by the rule about checking
wildcard labels in presented identifiers given below.

MUST

 match in order for

MUST

 convert any U-labels

If the DNS domain name portion of a reference identifier is an internationalized domain name,
[IDNA-DEFS]
then the client
checking the domain name or comparing it with others. In accordance with
labels
 be compared as case-insensitive ASCII. Each label
domain names to be considered to match, except as supplemented by the rule about checking
wildcard labels in presented identifiers given below.

 in the domain name to A-labels before
, A-

[IDNA-PROTO]
 match in order for the

MUST

MUST

If the technology specification supports wildcards in presented identifiers, then the client
MUST
match the reference identifier against a presented identifier whose DNS domain name portion
contains the wildcard character "*" in a label, provided these requirements are met:

1.

There is only one wildcard character.

2.

The wildcard character appears only as the complete content of the left-most label.

If the requirements are not met, the presented identifier is invalid and

MUST

 be ignored.

A wildcard in a presented identifier can only match one label in a reference identifier. This
specification covers only wildcard characters in presented identifiers, not wildcard characters in
reference identifiers or in DNS domain names more generally. Therefore, the use of wildcard
characters as described herein is not to be confused with DNS wildcard matching, where the "*"
label always matches at least one whole label and sometimes more; see
4.3.3

[DNS-CONCEPTS], Section
[DNS-WILDCARDS], Section 2.1.3
.

. In particular, it also deviates from

[DNS-WILDCARDS]

 and

For information regarding the security characteristics of wildcard certificates, see Section 7.1.

6.4.  Matching an IP Address Portion

Matching of an IP-ID is based on an octet-for-octet comparison of the bytes of the reference
identity with the bytes contained in the iPAddress subjectAltName.

For an IP address that appears in a URI-ID, the "host" component of both the reference identity
and the presented identifier must match. These are parsed as either an "IPv6address" (following
[URI], Section 3.2.2
). If the resulting octets are equal, the IP
address matches.

) or an "IPv4address" (following

[IPv4]

This document does not specify how an SRV-ID reference identity can include an IP address, as
[SRVNAME]

 only defines string names, not octet identifiers such as an IP address.

6.5.  Matching the Application Service Type Portion

The rules for matching the application service type depend on whether the identifier is an SRV-ID
or a URI-ID.

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

These identifiers provide an application service type portion to be checked, but that portion is
combined only with the DNS domain name portion of the SRV-ID or URI-ID itself. Consider the
example of a messaging client that has two reference identifiers: (1) an SRV-ID of _xmpp-
client.messenger.example and (2) a DNS-ID of app.example. The client
combination of (a) an application service type of xmpp-client and (b) a DNS domain name of
messenger.example as well as (2) a DNS domain name of app.example. However, the client
MUST NOT
domain name of app.example because it does not have an SRV-ID of _xmpp-client.app.example
in its list of reference identifiers.

 check the combination of an application service type of xmpp-client and a DNS

 check (1) the

MUST

If the identifier is an SRV-ID, then the application service name
insensitive manner, in accordance with
is part of the service name in DNS SRV records and in SRV-IDs.

[DNS-SRV]

. Note that per

MUST

 be matched in a case-

[SRVNAME]

, the underscore "_"

If the identifier is a URI-ID, then the scheme name portion
manner, in accordance with
name and the rest of the URI and thus does not need to be included in any comparison.

. Note that the colon ":" is a separator between the scheme

 be matched in a case-insensitive

[URI]

MUST

6.6.  Outcome

If the client has found a presented identifier that matches a reference identifier, then the service
identity check has succeeded. In this case, the client
 use the matched reference identifier as
the validated identity of the application service.

MUST

If the client does not find a presented identifier matching any of the reference identifiers, then
the client

 proceed as follows.

MUST

If the client is an automated application, then it
with a bad certificate error and log the error appropriately. The application
configuration setting to disable this behavior, but it
default.

MUST NOT

SHOULD

MAY
 disable this security control by

 provide a

 terminate the communication attempt

If the client is one that is directly controlled by a human user, then it
the identity mismatch and automatically terminate the communication attempt with a bad
certificate error in order to prevent users from inadvertently bypassing security protections in
hostile situations. Such clients
acceptance despite the identity mismatch. Although this behavior can be appropriate in certain
specialized circumstances, it needs to be handled with extreme caution, for example by first
encouraging even an advanced user to terminate the communication attempt and, if they choose
to proceed anyway, by forcing the user to view the entire certification path before proceeding.

 give advanced users the option of proceeding with

 inform the user of

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

 also present the user with the ability to accept the presented certificate as

The application
valid for subsequent connections. Such ad hoc "pinning"
to just the pinned certificate. Local policy that statically enforces a given certificate for a given
peer
 be made available only as prior configuration rather than a just-in-time override
for a failed connection.

 restrict future connections

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Wildcard Certificates

Wildcard certificates automatically vouch for any single-label hostnames within their domain,
but not multiple levels of domains. This can be convenient for administrators but also poses the
risk of vouching for rogue or buggy hosts. For example, see
91) and

 (beginning at slide

[Defeating-SSL]

 (slides 38-40).

[HTTPSbytes]

As specified in Section 6.3, restricting the presented identifiers in certificates to only one
wildcard character (e.g., "*.bigcompany.example" but not "*.*.bigcompany.example") and
restricting the use of wildcards to only the left-most domain label can help to mitigate certain
aspects of the attack described in

[Defeating-SSL]
.

That same attack also relies on the initial use of a cleartext HTTP connection, which is hijacked
by an active on-path attacker and subsequently upgraded to HTTPS. In order to mitigate such an
attack, administrators and software developers are advised to follow the strict TLS guidelines
provided in

[TLS-REC], Section 3.2
.

Because the attack described in
attack, web browsers and applications are advised to follow best practices to prevent XSS attacks;
for example, see
(OWASP).

, which was published by the Open Web Application Security Project

 relies on an underlying cross-site scripting (XSS)

[HTTPSbytes]

[XSS]

Protection against a wildcard that identifies a public suffix
*.com, is beyond the scope of this document.

[Public-Suffix]

, such as *.co.uk or

As noted in Section 3, application protocols can disallow the use of wildcard certificates entirely
as a more foolproof mitigation.

7.2.  Uniform Resource Identifiers

. For the purposes of this specification, the URI-ID

The URI-ID type is a subjectAltName entry of type uniformResourceIdentifier as defined in
[PKIX]
"host" component that matches the "reg-name" rule; if the entry does not include both, it is not a
valid URI-ID and
 be ignored. Any other components are ignored because only the "scheme"
and "host" components are used for certificate matching as specified under Section 6.

 include both a "scheme" and a

MUST

MUST

The quoted component names in the previous paragraph represent the associated
productions from the IETF Proposed Standard for Uniform Resource Identifiers
the reader should be aware that some applications (e.g., web browsers) might instead conform to
the Uniform Resource Locator (URL) specification maintained by the WHATWG
expected that differences between the URI and URL specifications would manifest themselves in
certificate matching.

. Although

, it is not

[ABNF]

[URL]

[URI]

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

7.3.  Internationalized Domain Names

This document specifies only matching between reference identifiers and presented identifiers,
not the visual presentation of domain names. Specifically, the matching of internationalized
domain names is performed on A-labels only (Section 6.3). The limited scope of this specification
likely mitigates potential confusion caused by the use of visually similar characters in domain
names (for example, as described in
); in any
case, such concerns are a matter for application-level protocols and user interfaces, not the
matching of certificates.

Section 4.4 of [IDNA-DEFS] [UTS-36]

[UTS-39]

, and

,

7.4.  IP Addresses

The TLS Server Name Indication (SNI) extension only conveys domain names. Therefore, a client
with an IP-ID reference identity cannot present any information about its reference identity
when connecting to a server. Servers that wish to present an IP-ID therefore need to present this
identity when a connection is made without SNI.

The textual representation of an IPv4 address might be misinterpreted as a valid FQDN in some
contexts. This can result in different security treatment that might cause different components of
a system to classify the value differently, which might lead to vulnerabilities. Consider a system
in which one component enforces a security rule that is conditional on the type of identifier but
misclassifies an IP address as an FQDN, whereas a second component correctly classifies the
identifier but incorrectly assumes that rules regarding IP addresses have been enforced by the
first component. As a result, the system as a whole might behave in an insecure manner.
Consistent classification of identifiers avoids this problem.

See also Section 3, particularly the last paragraph.

7.5.  Multiple Presented Identifiers

A given application service might be addressed by multiple DNS domain names for a variety of
reasons, and a given deployment might service multiple domains or protocols. TLS extensions
such as the Server Name Indication (SNI), as discussed in
discussed in
protocol to the server, which it can then use to select the most appropriate certificate.

, and ALPN, as
, provide a way for the application to indicate the desired identifier and

[TLS-EXT], Section 3

[ALPN]

This specification allows multiple DNS-IDs, IP-IDs, SRV-IDs, or URI-IDs in a certificate. As a result,
an application service can use the same certificate for multiple hostnames, such as when a client
does not support the TLS SNI extension, or for multiple protocols, such as SMTP and HTTP, on a
single hostname. Note that the set of names in a certificate is the set of names that could be
affected by a compromise of any other server named in the set: the strength of any server in the
set of names is determined by the weakest of those servers that offer the names.

The way to mitigate this risk is to limit the number of names that any server can speak for and to
ensure that all servers in the set have a strong minimum configuration as described in
[TLS-REC],
Section 3.9
.

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

7.6.  Multiple Reference Identifiers

 describes a mechanism to allow CA certificates to be constrained in the set of

This specification describes how a client may construct multiple acceptable reference identifiers
and may match any of those reference identifiers with the set of presented identifiers.
Section 4.2.1.10
presented identifiers that they may include within server certificates. However, these constraints
only apply to the explicitly enumerated name forms. For example, a CA that is only name-
constrained for DNS-IDs is not constrained for SRV-IDs and URI-IDs, unless those name forms are
also explicitly included within the name constraints extension.

[PKIX],

A client that constructs multiple reference identifiers of different types, such as both DNS-IDs and
SRV-IDs as described in Section 6.1.1,
certificates are appropriately constrained. This
agreement with the issuing CA or
 be enforced by the client requiring that if one form of
presented identifier is constrained, such as a dNSName name constraint for DNS-IDs, then all
other forms of acceptable reference identities are also constrained, such as requiring a
uniformResourceIndicator name constraint for URI-IDs.

 take care to ensure that CAs issuing such

 take the form of local policy through

SHOULD

MAY

MAY

7.7.  Certificate Trust

This document assumes that if a client trusts a given CA, it trusts all certificates issued by that CA.
The certificate checking process does not include additional checks for bad behavior by the hosts
identified with such certificates, for instance, rogue servers or buggy applications. Any additional
checks (e.g., checking the server name against trusted block lists) are the responsibility of the
application protocol or the client itself.

8.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[DNS-CONCEPTS]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034

,

,

,

,

DOI 10.17487/RFC1034
rfc1034>

.

, November 1987,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

[DNS-SRV]

,

Gulbrandsen, A. Vixie, P.
L. Esibov "A DNS RR for specifying the location of
, and
services (DNS SRV)" RFC 2782 DOI 10.17487/RFC2782
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2782>

, February 2000,

<https://

,

,

.

[DNS-WILDCARDS]

Lewis, E. "The Role of Wildcards in the Domain Name System" RFC 4592

,

,

,

DOI 10.17487/RFC4592

, July 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4592>

.

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

[IDNA-DEFS]

[IDNA-PROTO]

[IPv4]

[IPv6]

[LDAP-DN]

[PKIX]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[SRVNAME]

[TLS-REC]

[URI]

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Definitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

,

,

.

,

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names in Applications (IDNA): Protocol"
RFC 5891 DOI 10.17487/RFC5891
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, August 2010,
rfc5891>

,
.

,

,

Postel, J. "Internet Protocol" STD 5 RFC 791 DOI 10.17487/RFC0791
1981,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc791>

,

,

.

, September

Hinden, R.
10.17487/RFC4291

S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>
.

,
, February 2006,

 and

,

,

Zeilenga, K., Ed. "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP): String
Representation of Distinguished Names" RFC 4514 DOI 10.17487/RFC4514
2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4514>

,

,

.

, June

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Santesson, S. "Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Subject Alternative
Name for Expression of Service Name" RFC 4985 DOI 10.17487/RFC4985
2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4985>

,

,

.

, August

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

.

,

,

,

,

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

, January 2005,

9.2.  Informative References

[ABNF]

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

,

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

.

, January 2008,

<https://

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

[ACME]

[ALPACA]

[ALPN]

[DANE]

[Defeating-SSL]

[DNS-CASE]

,

J. Kasten "Automatic
Barnes, R. Hoffman-Andrews, J. McCarney, D.
Certificate Management Environment (ACME)" RFC 8555 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8555

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8555>

, March 2019,

, and
,

,

,

,

.

,

,
, and

Brinkmann, M. Dresen, C. Merget, R. Poddebniak, D. Müller, J. Somorovsky, J.
Schwenk, J.
S. Schinzel "ALPACA: Application Layer Protocol Confusion -
Analyzing and Mitigating Cracks in TLS Authentication" 30th USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 21)
<https://alpaca-attack.com/
ALPACA.pdf>

, September 2021,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Friedl, S. Popov, A. Langley, A.
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension" RFC 7301 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7301

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7301>
.

E. Stephan "Transport Layer Security (TLS)

, July 2014,

, and

,

,

,

 and

J. Schlyter "The DNS-Based Authentication of Named Entities

Hoffman, P.
(DANE) Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol: TLSA" RFC 6698 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6698

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6698>

, August 2012,

,
.

,

,

Marlinspike, M. "New Tricks for Defeating SSL in Practice" Black Hat DC

,

,

,

February 2009,
BlackHat-DC-09-Marlinspike-Defeating-SSL.pdf>

<https://www.blackhat.com/presentations/bh-dc-09/Marlinspike/
.

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Domain Name System (DNS) Case Insensitivity Clarification"
,
RFC 4343 DOI 10.17487/RFC4343
rfc4343>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2006,

,
.

,

[DNS-OVER-TLS]

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.

,

,

,

,

P. Hoffman

,

"Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

.

, and
,

[DTLS]

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

[EMAIL-SRV]

Daboo, C. "Use of SRV Records for Locating Email Submission/Access Services"
,
RFC 6186 DOI 10.17487/RFC6186
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 2011,
rfc6186>

,
,
.

[HTTP]

[HTTPSbytes]

[NAPTR]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

R. Hansen "HTTPS Can Byte Me" Black Hat Briefings

,

,

, November

<https://media.blackhat.com/bh-ad-10/Hansen/Blackhat-AD-2010-Hansen-

 and

Sokol, J.
2010,
Sokol-HTTPS-Can-Byte-Me-slides.pdf>

.

,

Mealling, M. "Dynamic Delegation Discovery System (DDDS) Part Three: The
Domain Name System (DNS) Database" RFC 3403 DOI 10.17487/RFC3403
October 2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3403>

,

,

,

.

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

[NTS]

[Public-Suffix]

[QUIC]

[RFC9000]

[SECTERMS]

,

Franke, D. Sibold, D. Teichel, K. Dansarie, M.
Security for the Network Time Protocol" RFC 8915 DOI 10.17487/RFC8915
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8915>
September 2020,

R. Sundblad "Network Time
, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

.

Mozilla Foundation "Public Suffix List" <https://publicsuffix.org>

,

,

.

Thomson, M., Ed.
10.17487/RFC9001

 and
, May 2021,

S. Turner, Ed. "Using TLS to Secure QUIC" RFC 9001 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9001>

,

,

,

.

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Secure Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9000>

 and
,

,

.

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and

,

, May 2021,

<https://

Shirey, R. "Internet Security Glossary, Version 2" FYI 36 RFC 4949 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC4949

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4949>

, August 2007,

,

,

,

.

[SECURE-CONTEXTS]

West, M. "Secure Contexts" W3C Candidate Recommendation Draft

,
<https://www.w3.org/TR/secure-contexts/>
September 2021,

.

,

,

[SIP]

[SIP-CERTS]

[SIP-SIPS]

[SMTP-TLS]

,

Rosenberg, J. Schulzrinne, H. Camarillo, G. Johnston, A. Peterson, J. Sparks, R.
Handley, M.
, and
10.17487/RFC3261

,
E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
,
, June 2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

Gurbani, V. Lawrence, S.
, and
,
Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 5922 DOI 10.17487/RFC5922
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5922>

,

,

.

A. Jeffrey "Domain Certificates in the Session

, June 2010,

<https://

,

Audet, F. "The Use of the SIPS URI Scheme in the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP)" RFC 5630 DOI 10.17487/RFC5630
editor.org/info/rfc5630>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2009,

,

,

.

Fenton, J. "SMTP Require TLS Option" RFC 8689 DOI 10.17487/RFC8689
November 2019,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8689>

.

,

,

,

[SVCB-FOR-DNS]

Schwartz, B. "Service Binding Mapping for DNS Servers" RFC 9461 DOI

,

,

,

10.17487/RFC9461

, November 2023,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9461>

.

[SVCB-FOR-HTTPS]

Schwartz, B. Bishop, M.
,

E. Nygren "Service Binding and Parameter
Specification via the DNS (SVCB and HTTPS Resource Records)" RFC 9460 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9460>
10.17487/RFC9460
.

, November 2023,

, and

,

,

,

[TLS]

[TLS-EXT]

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. "Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
Definitions" RFC 6066 DOI 10.17487/RFC6066
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6066>

, January 2011,

.

<https://www.rfc-

[TLS-SUBCERTS]

,

Barnes, R. Iyengar, S. Sullivan, N.

,
TLS and DTLS" RFC 9345 DOI 10.17487/RFC9345
,
editor.org/info/rfc9345>
.

, and

,

,
, July 2023,

E. Rescorla "Delegated Credentials for

<https://www.rfc-

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

[URL]

[US-ASCII]

[UTS-36]

[UTS-39]

[VERIFY]

[WSC-UI]

[X.509]

[X.690]

[XMPP]

[XSS]

van Kesteren, A. "URL" WHATWG Living Standard
url.spec.whatwg.org/>

,

.

,

, September 2023,

<https://

American National Standards Institute "Coded Character Sets - 7-bit American
,
Standard Code for Information Interchange (7-Bit ASCII)" ANSI INCITS 4-1986
(R2007)

, June 2007.

,

 and

Davis, M.
Unicode Technical Report #36
tr36/>

.

M. Suignard "Unicode Security Considerations" Revision 15

,

,
<https://unicode.org/reports/

,

, September 2014,

M. Suignard "Unicode Security Mechanisms" Version 15.1.0,

,

,

Davis, M.
Revision 28 Unicode Technical Standard #39
unicode.org/reports/tr39/>

 and
,

.

, September 2023,

<https://

,

 and

J. Hodges "Representation and Verification of Domain-Based

Saint-Andre, P.
Application Service Identity within Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using X.
509 (PKIX) Certificates in the Context of Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC
6125 DOI 10.17487/RFC6125
,
rfc6125>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

,

.

 and

Saldhana, A.
W3C Recommendation REC-wsc-ui-20100812
TR/2010/REC-wsc-ui-20100812/>

,

.

T. Roessler "Web Security Context: User Interface Guidelines"

, August 2010,

,
<https://www.w3.org/

,

ITU-T "Information Technology - Open Systems Interconnection - The Directory:
Public-key and attribute certificate frameworks" ISO/IEC 9594-8 ITU-T
Recommendation X.509

, October 2019.

,

,

,

ITU-T "Information Technology - ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ISO/IEC 8825-1:2021 (E) ITU-T Recommendation X.690
February 2021.

,

,

,

,

Saint-Andre, P. "Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP): Core" RFC
6120 DOI 10.17487/RFC6120
,
rfc6120>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2011,

,

.

Kirsten, S., et al. "Cross Site Scripting (XSS)" OWASP Foundation
owasp.org/www-community/attacks/xss/>

,

,

.

, 2020,

<https://

Appendix A.  Changes from RFC 6125

This document revises and obsoletes
since it was published. The major changes, in no particular order, include:

[VERIFY]

 based on the decade of experience and changes

•

The only legal place for a certificate wildcard is as the complete left-most label in a domain
name.

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

•

The server identity can only be expressed in the subjectAltNames extension; it is no longer
valid to use the commonName RDN, known as CN-ID in

[VERIFY]

.

•

Detailed discussion of pinning (configuring use of a certificate that doesn't match the criteria
in this document) has been removed and replaced with two paragraphs in Section 6.6.

•

The sections detailing different target audiences and which sections to read (first) have been
removed.

•

References to the X.500 directory, the survey of prior art, and the sample text in Appendix A
have been removed.

•

All references have been updated to the latest versions.

•

The TLS SNI extension is no longer new; it is commonplace.

•

Additional text on multiple identifiers, and their security considerations, has been added.

•

IP-ID reference identifiers have been added. This builds on the definition in
4.3.5

.

[HTTP], Section

•

The document title has been shortened because the previous title was difficult to cite.

Acknowledgements

We gratefully acknowledge everyone who contributed to the previous version of this
specification
this specification to Markdown so that we could more easily use
template software.

Martin Thomson's

Carsten Bormann

. Thanks also to

[VERIFY]

 for converting the previous version of

 i-d-

,

In addition to discussions within the UTA Working Group, the following people provided official
reviews or especially significant feedback:
Eggert Patrik Fältström Jim Fenton Olle Johansson John Klensin Murray Kucherawy Warren
Kumari John Mattson Alexey Melnikov Derrell Piper Maria Ines Robles Rob Sayre Yaron
Sheffer Ryan Sleevi Brian Smith Petr Špaček Orie Steele Martin Thomson Joe Touch Éric
,
,
Vyncke Paul Wouters

Corey Bonnell Roman Danyliw Viktor Dukhovni Lars

,
Qin Wu
.

, and

,
,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

A few descriptive sentences were borrowed from

[TLS-REC]
.

Contributors

Jeff Hodges
acknowledge his essential contributions to this work.

 coauthored the previous version of this specification

[VERIFY]

. The authors gratefully

Martin Thomson

 contributed the text on the handling of IP-IDs.

Authors' Addresses

Peter Saint-Andre
Independent
United States of America
Email:

 stpeter@stpeter.im

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9525

Service Identity in TLS

November 2023

Rich Salz
Akamai Technologies
United States of America
Email:

 rsalz@akamai.com

Saint-Andre & Salz

Standards Track

Page 25

