Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9489
Standards Track
November 2023
2070-1721
P. Jain
Cisco

A. Sajassi
Cisco

S. Salam
Cisco

S. Boutros
Ciena

G. Mirsky
Ericsson

RFC 9489
Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping Mechanisms for
EVPN and Provider Backbone Bridging EVPN (PBB-
EVPN)

Abstract

Label Switched Path (LSP) Ping is a widely deployed Operations, Administration, and
Maintenance (OAM) mechanism in MPLS networks. This document describes mechanisms for
detecting data plane failures using LSP Ping in MPLS-based Ethernet VPN (EVPN) and Provider
Backbone Bridging EVPN (PBB-EVPN) networks.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9489
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Specification of Requirements

3.  Terminology

4.  Target FEC Stack Sub-TLVs

4.1.  EVPN MAC/IP Sub-TLV

4.2.  EVPN Inclusive Multicast Sub-TLV

4.3.  EVPN Ethernet Auto-Discovery (A-D) Sub-TLV

4.3.1.  Ethernet Tag Value

4.3.2.  Per-ES EVPN Auto-Discovery Route with Different RDs

4.3.3.  EVPN VPWS

4.4.  EVPN IP Prefix Sub-TLV

5.  Encapsulation of OAM Ping Packets

6.  Operations

6.1.  Unicast Data Plane Connectivity Checks

6.2.  Inclusive Multicast Data Plane Connectivity Checks

6.2.1.  Ingress Replication

6.2.2.  Using P2MP P-Tree

6.2.3.  Controlling Echo Responses When Using P2MP P-Tree

6.3.  EVPN Aliasing Data Plane Connectivity Check

6.4.  EVPN IP Prefix (RT-5) Data Plane Connectivity Check

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Sub-TLV Type

8.2.  New Return Codes

9.  Normative References

Acknowledgments

3

3

3

4

4

6

7

8

8

9

9

10

10

10

12

12

12

13

14

14

14

15

15

15

16

17

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

Authors' Addresses

17

1.  Introduction

 describes MPLS-based EVPN technology. An EVPN comprises one or more Customer

[RFC7432]
Edge devices (CEs) connected to one or more Provider Edge devices (PEs). The PEs provide Layer
2 (L2) EVPN among the CE(s) over the MPLS core infrastructure. In EVPN networks, the PEs
advertise the Media Access Control (MAC) addresses learned from the locally connected CE(s),
along with the MPLS label, to remote PE(s) in the control plane using multiprotocol BGP
[RFC4760]
traffic to and from multihomed CE(s).

. EVPN enables multihoming of CE(s) connected to multiple PEs and load balancing of

 describes the use of Provider Backbone Bridging EVPN. PBB-EVPN maintains the

[RFC7623]
Customer MAC (C-MAC) learning in the data plane and only advertises Backbone MAC (B-MAC)
addresses in a control plane using BGP.

[RFC8029]

[RFC6425]

Procedures for simple and efficient mechanisms to detect data plane failures using LSP Ping in
. The basic idea for the LSP Ping
 and
MPLS networks are well defined in
mechanism is to send an MPLS Echo Request packet along the same data path as data packets
belonging to the same Forwarding Equivalent Class (FEC). The Echo Request packet carries the
. Once the Echo Request packet reaches
FEC being verified in the Target FEC Stack TLV
the end of the MPLS path, it is sent to the control plane of the egress PE. The Echo Request packet
contains sufficient information to verify the correctness of data plane operations and validate
the data plane against the control plane. The egress PE sends the results of the validation in an
Echo Reply packet to the originating PE of the Echo Request packet.

[RFC8029]

This document defines procedures to detect data plane failures using LSP Ping in MPLS networks
deploying EVPN and PBB-EVPN. This document defines four new sub-TLVs for the Target FEC
Stack TLV with the purpose of identifying the FEC on the egress PE.

2.  Specification of Requirements

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Terminology

A-D:

Auto-Discovery

B-MAC:

Backbone MAC

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

BUM:

Broadcast, Unknown Unicast, and Multicast

CE:

Customer Edge device

C-MAC:

Customer MAC

DF:

Designated Forwarder

ES:

Ethernet Segment

ESI:

Ethernet Segment Identifier

EVI:

EVPN Instance Identifier that globally identifies the EVPN Instance

EVPN:

Ethernet Virtual Private Network

FEC:

Forwarding Equivalent Class

G-ACh:

Generic Associated Channel

GAL:

G-ACh Label

MAC-VRF:

A Virtual Routing and Forwarding table for MAC addresses on a PE

ND:

Neighbor Discovery

OAM:

Operations, Administration, and Maintenance

P2MP:

Point-to-Multipoint

PBB-EVPN:

Provider Backbone Bridging EVPN

PE:

Provider Edge device

VPWS:

Virtual Private Wire Service

4.  Target FEC Stack Sub-TLVs

This document introduces four new Target FEC Stack sub-TLVs that are included in the MPLS
Echo Request packet. The Echo Request packets are used for connectivity checks in the data
plane in EVPN and PBB-EVPN networks. The Target FEC Stack sub-TLVs
that an identifier for a given EVPN is programmed at the target node.

 be used to validate

MAY

4.1.  EVPN MAC/IP Sub-TLV

The EVPN MAC/IP sub-TLV identifies the target MAC, MAC/IP binding for ARP/ND, or IP address
for an EVI under test at an egress PE. This sub-TLV is included in the Echo Request sent by an
EVPN/PBB-EVPN PE to a peer PE.

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

Section 7.2 of [RFC7432]

The fields of the EVPN MAC/IP sub-TLV are derived from the MAC/IP Advertisement route defined
in
 and have the format shown in Figure 1. The fields of the EVPN MAC/IP
sub-TLV should be set according to the following, which is consistent with
[RFC7623]
:

[RFC7432]

 and

•

The Ethernet Tag ID field can be 0 or a valid VLAN ID for EVPN VLAN-aware bundle service
[RFC7432]
.

. For PBB-EVPN, the value of this field is always 0 as per

Section 5.2 of [RFC7623]

•

The Ethernet Segment Identifier field is a 10-octet field. For EVPN, it is set to 0 for a single-
homed ES or to a valid ESI ID for a multihomed ES. For PBB-EVPN, the Ethernet Segment
Identifier field must be set to either 0 (for single-homed segments or multihomed segments
with per-I-SID load balancing) or to MAX-ESI (for multihomed segments with per-flow load
balancing) as described in

Section 5.2 of [RFC7623]

.

•

The MAC Addr Len field specifies the MAC length in bits. Only 48-bit MAC addresses are
supported as this document follows the MAC address length supported by

[RFC7432]

.

•

The MAC Address field is set to the 6-octet MAC address.

•

The IP Address field is optional. When the IP Address field is not present, the IP Addr Len
field is set to 0. When the IP Address field is present, the IP Addr Len field is in bits and is set
to either 32 for IPv4 addresses or 128 for IPv6 addresses.

•

The Must Be Zero fields are set to 0. The receiving PE should ignore the Must Be Zero fields.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Route Distinguisher                        |
|                        (8 octets)                             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     Ethernet Tag ID                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               Ethernet Segment Identifier                     |
|                     (10 octets)                               |
+                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               | Must Be Zero  |  MAC Addr Len |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                MAC Address                                    |
+                 (6 octets)    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               | Must Be Zero  |  IP Addr Len  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                IP Address (0, 4 or 16 octets)                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: EVPN MAC/IP Sub-TLV Format

The MPLS Echo Request is sent by the ingress PE using the EVPN MPLS label(s) associated with
the MAC/IP Advertisement route announced by the egress PE and the MPLS transport label(s) to
reach the egress PE.

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

In EVPN, the MAC/IP Advertisement route has multiple uses and is used for the following cases:

•

This route with only a MAC address and MPLS Label1 is used for populating MAC-VRF and
performing MAC forwarding.

•

This route with MAC and IP addresses and only MPLS Label1 is used for populating both
MAC-VRF and ARP/ND tables (for ARP suppression) as well as for performing MAC
forwarding.

•

This route with MAC and IP addresses and both MPLS Label1 and Label2 is used for
populating MAC-VRF and IP-VRF tables as well as for both MAC and IP forwarding in the case
of symmetric Integrated Routing and Bridging (IRB).

When an MPLS Echo Request is sent by an ingress PE, the contents of the Echo Request and the
egress PE mode of operation (i.e., IRB mode or L2 mode) along with EVPN MPLS label of the
packet determine which of the three cases above this Echo Request is for. When the egress PE
receives the EVPN MAC/IP sub-TLV containing only the MAC address, the egress PE validates the
MAC state and forwarding. When the egress PE receives the EVPN MAC/IP sub-TLV containing
both MAC and IP addresses and if the EVPN label points to a MAC-VRF, then the egress PE
validates the MAC state and forwarding. If the egress PE is not configured in symmetric IRB
mode, it also validates ARP/ND state. However, if the EVPN label points to an IP-VRF, then the
egress PE validates IP state and forwarding. Any other combinations (e.g., the egress PE receiving
the EVPN MAC/IP sub-TLV containing only the MAC address but with the EVPN label pointing to
an IP-VRF) should be considered invalid, and the egress PE should send an Echo Reply with the
appropriate Return Code to the ingress PE.

4.2.  EVPN Inclusive Multicast Sub-TLV

The fields of the EVPN Inclusive Multicast sub-TLV are based on the EVPN Inclusive Multicast Tag
route defined in
. This TLV is included in the Echo Request sent to the
EVPN peer PE by the originator of the request to verify the multicast connectivity state on the
peer PE(s) in EVPN and PBB-EVPN networks.

Section 7.3 of [RFC7432]

The EVPN Inclusive Multicast sub-TLV has the format shown in Figure 2. The fields of this sub-
TLV should be set according to the following, which is consistent with

[RFC7432]

[RFC7623]
:

 and

•

The Route Distinguisher (RD) field is a 10-octet field and is set to the RD of the MAC-VRF on
the peer PE.

•

For EVPN, the Ethernet Tag ID field can be set to 0 or a valid VLAN ID for EVPN VLAN-aware
bundle service
. For PBB-EVPN, the value of this field is set to the Service Instance
Identifier (I-SID) value as per

Section 5.3 of [RFC7623]

[RFC7432]

.

•

The IP Addr Len field specifies the length of the Originating Router's IP Addr field in bits and
is set to either 32 for IPv4 addresses or 128 for IPv6 addresses.

•

The Originating Router's IP Addr field is set to the IPv4 or IPv6 address of the peer PE.

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Route Distinguisher                        |
|                        (8 octets)                             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     Ethernet Tag ID                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| IP Addr Len |                                                 |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                                                 |
~               Originating Router's IP Addr                    ~
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: EVPN Inclusive Multicast Sub-TLV Format

BUM traffic can be sent using ingress replication or P2MP P-tree in EVPN and PBB-EVPN
networks. When using ingress replication, the Echo Request is sent using a label stack of
[Transport label, Inclusive Multicast label] to each egress PE participating in EVPN or PBB-EVPN.
The Inclusive Multicast label is the downstream-assigned label announced by the egress PE to
which the Echo Request is being sent. The Inclusive Multicast label is the inner label in the MPLS
label stack.

When using P2MP P-tree in EVPN or PBB-EVPN, the Echo Request is sent using a P2MP P-tree
transport label for the Inclusive P-tree arrangement or using a label stack of [P2MP P-tree
Transport label, upstream-assigned EVPN Inclusive Multicast label] for the Aggregate Inclusive
P2MP P-tree arrangement as described in Section 6.

In an EVPN network, to emulate traffic coming from a multihomed site, an additional EVPN
Ethernet A-D sub-TLV in the Target FEC Stack TLV and an ESI Split Horizon Group MPLS label as
the bottom label are also included in the Echo Request packet. When using P2MP P-tree, the ESI
Split Horizon Group MPLS label is upstream assigned. Please see Section 6.2.2 for operations
using P2MP P-trees.

4.3.  EVPN Ethernet Auto-Discovery (A-D) Sub-TLV

The fields in the EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV are based on the EVPN Ethernet A-D route
advertisement defined in
to EVPN.

Section 7.1 of [RFC7432]

. The EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV only applies

The EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV has the format shown in Figure 3. The fields of this sub-TLV
should be set according to the following, which is consistent with

[RFC7432]
:

•

The Route Distinguisher (RD) field is a 10-octet field and is set to the RD of the MAC-VRF on
the peer PE. Please see Section 4.3.2 for the case when a per-ES A-D route is announced with
different RDs.

•

The Ethernet Tag ID field can be 0, MAX-ET, or a valid VLAN ID as described in Section 4.3.1.

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

•

The Ethernet Segment Identifier field is a 10-octet field and is set to 0 for a single-homed ES
or to a valid ESI ID for a multihomed ES.

•

The Must Be Zero field is set to 0. The receiving PE should ignore the Must Be Zero field.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Route Distinguisher                        |
|                        (8 octets)                             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     Ethernet Tag ID                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               Ethernet Segment Identifier                     |
|                     (10 octets)                               |
+                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               |      Must Be Zero             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: EVPN Ethernet A-D Sub-TLV Format

4.3.1.  Ethernet Tag Value

MAY

The EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV can be sent in the context of per-ES or per-EVI. When an
operator performs a connectivity check for the BUM L2 service, an Echo Request packet is sent
 contain the EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV to emulate traffic coming from a multihomed
and
site. In this case, the EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV is added in the per-ES context. When an Echo
Request packet is sent for the connectivity check for EVPN Aliasing state, the context for the
EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV is per-EVI.

The Ethernet Tag field value in the EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV
context:

MUST

 be set according to the

•

For the per-ES context, the Ethernet Tag field in the sub-TLV
MAX-ET value

[RFC7432]

.

MUST

 be set to the reserved

•

For the per-EVI context, the Ethernet Tag field in the sub-TLV
reserved value.

MUST

 be set to the non-

4.3.2.  Per-ES EVPN Auto-Discovery Route with Different RDs

 specifies that a per-ES EVPN A-D route for a given multihomed ES may

Section 8.2 of [RFC7432]
be advertised more than once with different RD values because many EVIs may be associated
with the same ES and Route Targets for all these EVIs may not fit in a single BGP Update message.
In this case, the RD value used in the EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV
 be the RD value received
for the EVI in the per-ES EVPN A-D route.

MUST

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

4.3.3.  EVPN VPWS

LSP Ping can also be used to detect data plane failures for the EVPN VPWS described in
[RFC8214]
. The Echo Request packet carries the EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV with fields populated
from the EVPN Ethernet A-D per-EVI route announced by the egress PE for the EVPN VPWS under
test. The Echo Request is sent by the ingress PE using the EVPN MPLS label associated with the
EVPN Ethernet A-D route announced by the egress PE and the MPLS transport label(s) to reach
the egress PE.

The egress PE processes the Echo Request packet and performs checks for the EVPN Ethernet A-D
sub-TLV present in the Target FEC Stack TLV as described in
[RFC8029]
responds according to processing rules in
Request is for the EVPN VPWS instance as EVI (identified by the RD) for EVPN VPWS is different
from EVI assigned for EVPN. The egress PE will use the information from the EVPN Ethernet A-D
sub-TLV in the Target FEC Stack TLV and validate the VLAN state for the EVPN VPWS under test.
For the success case, the egress PE will reply with Return Code 3 ("Replying router is an egress for
the FEC at stack-depth <RSC>").

Section 4.4 of [RFC8029]
. The egress PE can identify that the Echo

 and

4.4.  EVPN IP Prefix Sub-TLV

The EVPN IP Prefix sub-TLV identifies the IP prefix for an EVI under test at a peer PE.

The EVPN IP Prefix sub-TLV fields are derived from the IP Prefix route (RT-5) advertisement
defined in

. This sub-TLV only applies to EVPN.

[RFC9136]

The EVPN IP Prefix sub-TLV has the format shown in Figure 4. The total length (not shown) of
this sub-TLV
are carried). The IP prefix and gateway IP address
Section 3.1 of [RFC9136]
.
described in

 be either 32 bytes (if IPv4 addresses are carried) or 56 bytes (if IPv6 addresses

 be from the same IP address family, as

MUST

MUST

The fields of the EVPN IP Prefix sub-TLV should be set according to the following, which is
consistent with

[RFC9136]
:

•

The Route Distinguisher (RD) field is a 10-octet field and is set to the RD of the IP-VRF on the
peer PE.

•

The Ethernet Tag ID field can be 0 or a valid VLAN ID for EVPN VLAN-aware bundle service
[RFC7432]

.

•

The Ethernet Segment Identifier field is a 10-octet field and is set to a valid ESI ID if the ESI is
used as an Overlay Index as per
Identifier field is set to 0.

. Otherwise, the Ethernet Segment

Section 3.1 of [RFC9136]

•

The IP Prefix Len field specifies the number of bits in the IP Prefix field. It is set to a value
between 0 and 32 for IPv4 or between 0 to 128 for IPv6.

•

The IP Prefix field is set to a 4-octet IPv4 address (with trailing 0 bits to make 32 bits in all) or
a 16-octet IPv6 address (with trailing 0 bits to make 128 bits in all). The address family of this
field is inferred from the sub-TLV length field, as discussed above.

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

•

The Gateway (GW) IP Address field is set to a 4-octet IPv4 address or a 16-octet IPv6 address
if it's used as an Overlay Index for the IP prefixes. If the GW IP Address is not being used, it
must be set to 0 as described in
. The address family of this field is
inferred from the sub-TLV length field, as discussed above.

Section 3.1 of [RFC9136]

•

The Must Be Zero field is set to 0. The receiving PE should ignore the Must Be Zero field.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                    Route Distinguisher                        |
|                        (8 octets)                             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     Ethernet Tag ID                           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|               Ethernet Segment Identifier                     |
|                     (10 octets)                               |
+                               +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               | Must Be Zero  | IP Prefix Len |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~                 IP Prefix  (4 or 16 octets)                   ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
~                GW IP Address (4 or 16 octets)                 ~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: EVPN IP Prefix Sub-TLV Format

The MPLS Echo Request is sent by the ingress PE using the EVPN MPLS label(s) associated with
the IP Prefix route announced by the egress PE and the MPLS transport label(s) to reach the
egress PE.

5.  Encapsulation of OAM Ping Packets

The MPLS Echo Request IP/UDP packets
label(s) followed by the GAL
, which is the bottommost label. The GAL is followed by a
G-ACh header carrying the IPv4(0x0021) or IPv6(0x0057) Channel Type. The code points for IPv4
and IPv6 channels are defined in the "Generic Associated Channel (G-ACh) Parameters" IANA
registry.

 be encapsulated with the Transport and EVPN

[RFC5586]

MUST

6.  Operations

6.1.  Unicast Data Plane Connectivity Checks

Figure 5 is an example of a PBB-EVPN network. CE1 is dual-homed to PE1 and PE2. Assume that
PE1 announced a MAC route with RD 192.0.2.1:00 and B-MAC 00-AA-00-BB-00-CC and with MPLS
label 16001 for EVI 10. Similarly, PE2 announced a MAC route with RD 203.0.113.2:00 and B-MAC
00-AA-00-BB-00-CC and with MPLS label 16002.

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

On PE3, when an operator performs a connectivity check for the B-MAC address 00-AA-00-BB-00-
CC on PE1, the operator initiates an LSP Ping request with the Target FEC Stack TLV containing
the EVPN MAC/IP sub-TLV in the Echo Request packet. The Echo Request packet is sent with the
{Transport label(s) to reach PE1, EVPN label = 16001, GAL} MPLS label stack and IP ACH Channel
header. Once the Echo Request packet reaches PE1, PE1 will use the GAL and the IP ACH Channel
header to determine if the packet is an IPv4 or IPv6 OAM packet. The PE1 will process the packet
and perform checks for the EVPN MAC/IP sub-TLV present in the Target FEC Stack TLV as
described in

 and respond according to the processing rules in

Section 4.4 of [RFC8029]

[RFC8029]
.

                  +-----------------+
                  |                 |
                  |                 |
+----+ AC1  +-----+                 +-----+     +----+
| CE1|------|     |                 | PE3 |-----| CE2|
+----+\     | PE1 |     IP/MPLS     |     |     +----+
       \    +-----+     Network     +-----+
        \         |                 |
      AC2\  +-----+                 |
          \ |     |                 |
           \| PE2 |                 |
            +-----+                 |
                  |                 |
                  +-----------------+

  <-802.1Q->  <------PBB over MPLS------>  <-802.1Q->

Figure 5: PBB-EVPN Network

Similarly, on PE3, when an operator performs a connectivity check for the B-MAC address 00-
AA-00-BB-00-CC on PE2, the operator initiates an LSP Ping request with the Target FEC Stack TLV
containing the EVPN MAC/IP sub-TLV in the Echo Request packet. The Echo Request packet is sent
with the {MPLS Transport label(s) to reach PE2, EVPN label = 16002, GAL} MPLS label stack and
IP ACH Channel header.

LSP Ping operations for unicast data plane connectivity checks in EVPN are similar to those
described above for PBB-EVPN, except that the checks are for C-MAC addresses instead of B-MAC
addresses.

In EVPN networks, an operator can also perform a MAC state test using an aliasing label for the
MAC to verify the MAC state on the egress multihoming PE that did not learn the MAC from the
multihomed CE on a local ESI but has announced Ethernet A-D per-EVI and per-ESI routes for the
ESI. This is due to the fact that MAC state on multihoming PEs that did not learn the MAC locally
get created from EVPN MAC/IP route advertisement from the multihoming PE that has learned
the CE's MAC address locally.

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

6.2.  Inclusive Multicast Data Plane Connectivity Checks

6.2.1.  Ingress Replication

Assume PE1 announced an Inclusive Multicast route for EVI 10, with RD 192.0.2.1:00, Ethernet
Tag (ISID 10), PMSI tunnel attribute Tunnel type set to ingress replication, and downstream-
assigned Inclusive Multicast MPLS label 17001. Similarly, PE2 announced an Inclusive Multicast
route for EVI 10, with RD 203.0.113.2:00, Ethernet Tag (ISID 10), PMSI tunnel attribute Tunnel
type set to ingress replication, and downstream-assigned Inclusive Multicast MPLS label 17002.

Given CE1 is dual-homed to PE1 and PE2, assume that PE1 is the DF for ISID 10 for the port
corresponding to the ESI 11aa.22bb.33cc. 44dd.5500.

When an operator at PE3 initiates a connectivity check for the Inclusive Multicast on PE1, the
operator initiates an LSP Ping request with the Target FEC Stack TLV containing the EVPN
Inclusive Multicast sub-TLV in the Echo Request packet. The Echo Request packet is sent with the
{Transport label(s) to reach PE1, EVPN Inclusive Multicast label = 17001, GAL} MPLS label stack
and IP ACH Channel header. Once the Echo Request packet reaches PE1, PE1 will use the GAL and
the IP ACH Channel header to determine if the packet is an IPv4 or IPv6 OAM packet. The packet
will have the EVPN Inclusive Multicast label. PE1 will process the packet and perform checks for
the EVPN Inclusive Multicast sub-TLV present in the Target FEC Stack TLV as described in
Section
4.4 of [RFC8029]
case, PE1 will reply with Return Code 3 ("Replying router is an egress for the FEC at stack-depth
<RSC>").

 and respond according to the processing rules in

. For the success

[RFC8029]

Similarly, an operator at PE3 may initiate an LSP Ping to PE2 with the Target FEC Stack TLV
containing the EVPN Inclusive Multicast sub-TLV in the Echo Request packet. The Echo Request
packet is sent with the {Transport label(s) to reach PE2, EVPN Inclusive Multicast label = 17002,
GAL} MPLS label stack and IP ACH Channel header. Once the Echo Request packet reaches PE2,
PE2 will use the GAL and the IP ACH Channel header to determine if the packet is an IPv4 or IPv6
OAM packet. The processing on PE2 will be similar to that on PE1 as described above. For the
success case, PE2 will reply with Return Code 3 ("Replying router is an egress for the FEC at stack-
depth <RSC>") as per

[RFC8029]
.

In an Echo Request packet for EVPN, a combination of an EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV and the
associated MPLS Split Horizon label, immediately preceding the GAL in the MPLS label stack,
may be used to emulate traffic coming from a multihomed site. The Split Horizon label is used by
leaf PE(s) attached to the same multihomed site to prevent forwarding of packets back to the
multihomed site. If the behavior on a leaf PE is to not forward the packet to the multihomed site
on the ESI identified by the EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV because of Split Horizon filtering, the PE
will reply with Return Code 37 (see Section 8) and drop the BUM packets on the ES corresponding
to the ESI received in the EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV because of the Split Horizon Group
filtering.

6.2.2.  Using P2MP P-Tree

Both Inclusive P-tree and Aggregate Inclusive P-tree can be used in EVPN or PBB-EVPN networks.

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

When using an Inclusive P-tree arrangement, the P2MP P-tree transport label itself is used to
identify the L2 service associated with the Inclusive Multicast route. This L2 service could be a
Customer Bridge or a Provider Backbone Bridge.

For an Inclusive P-tree arrangement, when an operator performs a connectivity check for the
multicast L2 service, the operator initiates an LSP Ping request with the Target FEC Stack TLV
containing the EVPN Inclusive Multicast sub-TLV in the Echo Request packet. The Echo Request
packet is sent over P2MP LSP with the {P2MP P-tree Transport label, GAL} MPLS label stack and
IP ACH Channel header.

When using an Aggregate Inclusive P-tree arrangement, a PE announces an upstream-assigned
MPLS label along with the P-tree ID, so both the P2MP P-tree MPLS transport label and the
upstream MPLS label can be used to identify the L2 service.

For an Aggregate Inclusive P-tree arrangement, when an operator performs a connectivity check
for the multicast L2 service, the operator initiates an LSP Ping request with the Target FEC Stack
TLV containing the EVPN Inclusive Multicast sub-TLV in the Echo Request packet. The Echo
Request packet is sent over P2MP LSP using the IP-ACH Control channel with the {P2MP P-tree
Transport label, EVPN upstream-assigned Multicast label, GAL} MPLS label stack and IP ACH
Channel header.

The leaf PE(s) of the P2MP P-tree will process the packet and perform checks for the EVPN
Inclusive Multicast sub-TLV present in the Target FEC Stack TLV as described in
[RFC8029]
leaf PE will reply with Return Code 3 ("Replying router is an egress for the FEC at stack-depth
<RSC>").

 and respond according to the processing rules in

Section 4.4 of

. For the success case, the

[RFC8029]

In an Echo Request packet for EVPN, a combination of an EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV and the
associated MPLS Split Horizon label, immediately preceding the GAL in the MPLS label stack,
may be used to emulate traffic coming from a multihomed site. When using P2MP P-tree, the
Split Horizon label is upstream assigned and is received by all the leaf PEs of the P2MP P-tree.
The Split Horizon label is used by leaf PE(s) attached to the same multihomed site so that packets
will not be forwarded back to the multihomed site. If the behavior on a leaf PE is to not forward
the packet to the multihomed site on the ESI in the EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV because of Split
Horizon filtering, the PE will reply with Return Code 37 (see Section 8) and drop the BUM packets
on the ES corresponding to the ESI received in the EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV because of the
Split Horizon Group filtering. If the leaf PE does not have the ESI identified in the EVPN Ethernet
A-D sub-TLV, the PE
forwarded because there is no ES corresponding to the ESI received in the EVPN Ethernet A-D
sub-TLV.

 reply with Return Code 38 (see Section 8), and the BUM packets are

MAY

6.2.3.  Controlling Echo Responses When Using P2MP P-Tree

[RFC6425]

The procedures described in
TLV) and limiting the Echo Reply to a single egress node (P2MP Responder Identifier TLV with
either the IPv4 Node Address P2MP Responder sub-TLV or the IPv6 Node Address P2MP
Responder sub-TLV) can be applied to LSP Ping in EVPN and PBB-EVPN when using P2MP P-trees
for BUM traffic.

 for preventing congestion of Echo Responses (Echo Jitter

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

6.3.  EVPN Aliasing Data Plane Connectivity Check

Assume PE1 announced an Ethernet A-D per-EVI route with the ESI set to CE1 system ID and
MPLS label 19001. Additionally, assume PE2 announced an Ethernet A-D per-EVI route with the
ESI set to CE1 system ID and MPLS label 19002.

At PE3, when an operator performs a connectivity check for the aliasing aspect of the EVPN
Ethernet A-D route on PE1, the operator initiates an LSP Ping request with the Target FEC Stack
TLV containing the EVPN Ethernet A-D sub-TLV in the Echo Request packet. The Echo Request
packet is sent with the {Transport label(s) to reach PE1, EVPN Ethernet A-D label 19001, GAL}
MPLS label stack and IP ACH Channel header.

When PE1 receives the packet, it will process the packet and perform checks for the EVPN
Ethernet A-D sub-TLV present in the Target FEC Stack TLV as described in
[RFC8029]

 and respond according to the processing rules in

Section 4.4 of

[RFC8029]
.

6.4.  EVPN IP Prefix (RT-5) Data Plane Connectivity Check

Assume PE1 in Figure 5 announced an IP Prefix route (RT-5) with an IP prefix reachable behind
CE1 and MPLS label 20001. When an operator on PE3 performs a connectivity check for the IP
prefix on PE1, the operator initiates an LSP Ping request with the Target FEC Stack TLV
containing the EVPN IP Prefix sub-TLV in the Echo Request packet. The Echo Request packet is
sent with the {Transport label(s) to reach PE1, EVPN IP Prefix label 20001 } MPLS label stack.

When PE1 receives the packet, it will process the packet and perform checks for the EVPN IP
Prefix sub-TLV present in the Target FEC Stack TLV as described in
respond according to the processing rules in

Section 4.4 of [RFC8029]

[RFC8029]
.

 and

7.  Security Considerations

This document does not introduce any new security considerations beyond those that apply in
[RFC7432] [RFC7623]
,
[RFC8029]
 apply to this document and need to be considered. As described in
security considerations are:

. Furthermore, the security considerations discussed in

[RFC8029]

[RFC6425]

, these

, and

•

A Denial-of-Service (DoS) attack by sending MPLS Echo Requests/Replies to Label Switching
Routers (LSRs) and thereby increasing their workload.

•

Obfuscating the state of the MPLS data plane liveness by spoofing, hijacking, replaying, or
otherwise tampering with MPLS Echo Requests and Replies.

•

Obtaining information about the network through an unauthorized source using an LSP
Ping.

There are mitigations described in
Ping procedures described in this document; thus, this document doesn't require additional
security considerations beyond the ones described in

. The same mitigations can be applied to the LSP

[RFC8029]
.

[RFC8029]

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

This document does not introduce any new privacy concerns because these TLVs contain the
same information that are present in data packets and EVPN routes.

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Sub-TLV Type

This document defines four new sub-TLV types to be included in the Target FEC Stack TLV (TLV
types 1, 16, and 21)
networks.

 in Echo Request and Echo Reply messages in EVPN and PBB-EVPN

[RFC9041]

IANA has assigned the following values from the "Standards Action" (0-16383) range in the "Sub-
TLVs for TLV Types 1, 16, and 21" subregistry within the "TLVs" registry of the "Multiprotocol
Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters" name space.

Sub-Type

Sub-TLV Name

EVPN MAC/IP

Reference

RFC 9489

EVPN Inclusive Multicast

RFC 9489

EVPN Ethernet Auto-Discovery

RFC 9489

EVPN IP Prefix

RFC 9489

42

43

44

45

Table 1

8.2.  New Return Codes

 defines values for the Return Code field of Echo Reply messages. This document

[RFC8029]
defines two new Return Codes that
response to an Echo Request message in EVPN and PBB-EVPN networks.

 be included in the Echo Reply message by a PE in

SHOULD

IANA has assigned the following values in the "Return Codes" registry of the "Multiprotocol Label
Switching (MPLS) Label Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters" name space.

Replying router is egress for the FEC at the stack depth. In addition,
the BUM packets are dropped on the ES corresponding to the ESI
received in the EVPN Ethernet Auto-Discovery sub-TLV because of the
Split Horizon Group filtering.

Replying router is egress for the FEC at the stack depth. In addition,
the BUM packets are forwarded because there is no ES corresponding
to the ESI received in the EVPN Ethernet Auto-Discovery sub-TLV.

RFC 9489

Reference

RFC 9489

Value Meaning

37

38

Table 2

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

9.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4760]

[RFC5586]

[RFC6425]

[RFC7432]

[RFC7623]

[RFC8029]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8214]

[RFC9041]

[RFC9136]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
,
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>

, and

,

,

.

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Bocci, M., Ed. Vigoureux, M., Ed.
Channel" RFC 5586 DOI 10.17487/RFC5586
editor.org/info/rfc5586>

, and

,

,

.

S. Bryant, Ed. "MPLS Generic Associated

,

, June 2009,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Saxena, S., Ed. Swallow, G. Ali, Z. Farrel, A. Yasukawa, S.
"Detecting Data-Plane Failures in Point-to-Multipoint MPLS - Extensions to LSP
Ping" RFC 6425 DOI 10.17487/RFC6425
editor.org/info/rfc6425>

, November 2011,

<https://www.rfc-

T. Nadeau

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Aggarwal, R. Bitar, N. Isaac, A. Uttaro, J. Drake, J.
Henderickx "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN" RFC 7432 DOI 10.17487/RFC7432
February 2015,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7432>
.

, and

,
,

W.

,

,

,

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Salam, S. Bitar, N. Isaac, A.
Backbone Bridging Combined with Ethernet VPN (PBB-EVPN)" RFC 7623 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7623>
10.17487/RFC7623

W. Henderickx "Provider
,

, September 2015,

, and

,
,

,

,

.

,

Kompella, K. Swallow, G. Pignataro, C., Ed. Kumar, N. Aldrin, S.
,
"Detecting Multiprotocol Label Switched (MPLS) Data-Plane Failures" RFC 8029
DOI 10.17487/RFC8029
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8029>

M. Chen
, and
,

, March 2017,

,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Boutros, S. Sajassi, A. Salam, S. Drake, J.
Service Support in Ethernet VPN" RFC 8214 DOI 10.17487/RFC8214
,
2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8214>

, and
,

,

,

.

J. Rabadan "Virtual Private Wire

,

, August

,

Andersson, L. Chen, M. Pignataro, C.
, and
Switched Paths (LSPs) Ping Parameters IANA Registry" RFC 9041 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9041>
RFC9041

T. Saad "Updating the MPLS Label

, July 2021,

,

,

,

,

.

,

A. Sajassi "IP Prefix
,
Rabadan, J., Ed. Henderickx, W. Drake, J. Lin, W.
Advertisement in Ethernet VPN (EVPN)" RFC 9136 DOI 10.17487/RFC9136
,
October 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9136>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9489

LSP Ping for EVPN and PBB-EVPN

November 2023

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank
Guichard Lars Eggert John Scudder Éric Vyncke Warren Kumari Patrice Brissette
Hao

Loa Andersson Alexander Vainshtein Ron Sdayoor Jim
,
, and

 for their valuable comments.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Weiguo

Authors' Addresses

Parag Jain
Cisco
Canada
Email:

 paragj@cisco.com

Ali Sajassi
Cisco
United States of America
Email:
 sajassi@cisco.com

Samer Salam
Cisco
Canada
Email:

 ssalam@cisco.com

Sami Boutros
Ciena
United States of America
Email:

 sboutros@ciena.com

Greg Mirsky
Ericsson
United States of America
Email:

 gregimirsky@gmail.com

Jain, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

