Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9277
Standards Track
August 2022
2070-1721
M. Richardson
Sandelman Software Works

C. Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI

RFC 9277
On Stable Storage for Items in Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR)

Abstract

This document defines a stored ("file") format for Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)
data items that is friendly to common systems that recognize file types, such as the Unix file(1)
command.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9277
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

1.2.  Requirements for a Magic Number

2.  Protocol

2.1.  The CBOR-Protocol-Specific Tag

2.2.  Enveloping Method: CBOR Tag Wrapped

2.2.1.  Example

2.3.  Enveloping Method: Labeled CBOR Sequence

2.3.1.  Example

3.  Security Considerations

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  Labeled CBOR Sequence Tag

4.2.  CBOR-Labeled Non-CBOR Data Tag

4.3.  CBOR Tags for CoAP Content-Format Numbers

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

5.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Advice to Protocol Designer

A.1.  Is the on-wire format new?

A.2.  Can many items be trivially concatenated?

A.3.  Are there tags at the start?

Appendix B.  CBOR Tags for CoAP Content Formats

B.1.  Content-Format Tag Examples

Appendix C.  Example from Openswan

Appendix D.  Using CBOR Labels for Non-CBOR Data

D.1.  Content-Format Tag Examples

Acknowledgements

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Since very early in computing, operating systems have sought ways to mark which files could be
processed by which programs. In Unix, everything is a stream of bytes; identifying the contents
of a stream of bytes became a heuristic activity.

For instance, the Unix file(1) command, which has existed since 1973
identify many file formats based upon the contents of the file for decades.

[FILE]

, has been able to

Many systems (Linux, macOS, Windows) will select the correct application based upon the file
contents if the system cannot determine it by other means. For instance, in classical Mac OS, a
resource fork was maintained separately from the file data that included file type information;
this way, the OS ideally never needed to know anything about the file data contents to determine
the media type.

Many other systems do this by using file extensions. Many common Web servers derive the
media-type information from file extensions.

Having a media type associated with the file contents can avoid some of the brittleness of this
approach. When files become disconnected from their type information, such as when
attempting to do forensics on a damaged system, being able to identify the type of information
stored in a file can become very important.

A common way to identify the type of a file from its contents is to place a "magic number" at the
start of the file contents
number is asked for, if available, as is a file extension.

. In the media type registration template

[RFC6838]

, a magic

[MAGIC]

A challenge for the file(1) command is often that it can be confused by recognizing the overall
encoding but not the content being encoded. For instance, an Android Package Kit APK (as used
to transfer and store an application) may be identified as a ZIP file. Additionally, both OpenOffice
and MSOffice files are ZIP files of XML files; the identification may stop at identifying them as ZIP
files.

As CBOR becomes a more and more common encoding for a wide variety of artifacts, identifying
them as just "CBOR" is probably not sufficient. This document provides a way to encode a magic
number into the beginning of a CBOR format file. As a CBOR format may use a single CBOR data
, two possible methods of enveloping data are
item or a CBOR sequence of data items
presented; a CBOR Protocol designer will specify one. (A CBOR Protocol is a specification that
uses CBOR as its encoding.)

[RFC8742]

This document also gives advice to designers of CBOR Protocols on choosing one of these
mechanisms for identifying their contents. This advice is informative.

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

A third method is also proposed by which a CBOR format tag is prepended to identify non-CBOR
files. Further information on this method appears in Appendix D because it is not about
identifying media types containing CBOR-encoded data items. This includes a simple way to
derive a magic number for content-formats as defined in
, even if the file is not in
CBOR form.

[RFC7252]

Examples of CBOR Protocols currently under development include Concise Software
Identification Tags
Encryption (COSE) itself
CBOR as C509 as described in

 and Entity Attestation Tokens

[C509-CERT]

[RFC8152]

[CoSWID]

 is considered infrastructure. The encoding of public keys in

 would benefit from being an identified CBOR Protocol.

. CBOR Object Signing and

[EAT]

A major inspiration for this document is observing the disarray in certain ASN.1-based systems
where most files are Privacy-Enhanced Mail (PEM) encoded; these files are all identified by the
extension "pem", which confounds public keys, private keys, certificate requests, and S/MIME
content.

While the envelopes defined in this specification add information to how data conforming to
CBOR Protocols are stored in files, there is no requirement that either type of envelope be
transferred on the wire. However, there are some protocols that may benefit from having such a
magic number on the wire if they are presently using a different (legacy) encoding scheme. The
presence of the identifiable magic sequence can be used to signal that a CBOR Protocol is being
used as opposed to a legacy scheme.

1.1.  Terminology

Byte is a synonym for octet. The term "byte string" refers to the data item defined in

[STD94]
.

The term "file" is understood to stand in a general way for a stored representation that is
somewhat detached from the original context of usage of that representation; its usage in this
document encompasses similar units of storage that may have different identification schemes
such as partitions or media blocks.

The term "diagnostic notation" refers to the human-readable notation for CBOR data items
defined in

Appendix G of [RFC8610]
.

Section 8 of [STD94]

 and

The term "CDDL" (Concise Data Definition Language) refers to the language defined in

[RFC8610]
.

The function TN(ct) is defined in Appendix B.

1.2.  Requirements for a Magic Number

Ideally, a magic number is a fingerprint that is unique to a specific CBOR Protocol, is present in
the first few (small multiple of 4) bytes of the file and does not change when the contents change,
and does not depend upon the length of the file.

Less ideal solutions have a pattern that needs to be matched, but in which some bytes need to be
ignored. While the Unix file(1) command can be told to ignore certain bytes, this can lead to
ambiguities.

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

2.  Protocol

This section presents two enveloping methods. Both use CBOR tags in a way that results in a
deterministic first 8 to 12 bytes. The Protocol designer determines which one to use; see
Appendix A for some guidance.

2.1.  The CBOR-Protocol-Specific Tag

In both enveloping methods, CBOR Protocol designers need to obtain a CBOR tag for each kind of
object that they might store in files. As there are more than 4 billion available 4-byte tags, there
should be little issue in allocating a few to each available CBOR Protocol.

The IANA policy for 4-byte CBOR tags is First Come First Served
interaction (e.g., via Web or email) with IANA is required. The interaction includes filling in the
Section 9.2 of [STD94]
small template provided in
specification (RFC 9277) alongside the Description of semantics is suggested.

. In the template, a reference to this

 so only a simple

[RFC8126]

Allocation of the CBOR tag needs to be initiated by the designer of the CBOR Protocol, who can
provide a proposed tag number. In order to be in the 4-byte range, and so that there are no
leading zero bytes in the 4-byte encoding of the tag number, the value needs to be in the range
0x01000000 (decimal 16777216) to 0xFFFFFFFF (decimal 4294967295) inclusive. It is further
suggested to avoid values that have an embedded zero byte in the 4 bytes of their binary
representation (such as 0x12003456), as these may confuse implementations that treat the magic
number as a C string.

The use of a sequence of four ASCII
encouraged, but not required (there may be reasons to encode other information into the tag; see
Appendix B for an example). For instance, Appendix C uses "OPSN", which translates to the tag
number 1330664270 registered for it.

 codes which are mnemonic to the protocol is

[RFC20]

[IANA.CORE-PARAMETERS]

, the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) defines the "CoAP

In
Content-Formats" registry to assign Content-Format Numbers (
Content Types in a specific Content Coding. For CBOR data items that form a representation that
is already described by such a Content-Format Number, a tag number has proactively been
allocated in Section 4.3 (see Appendix B for details and examples).

Section 12.3 of [RFC7252]

) to

2.2.  Enveloping Method: CBOR Tag Wrapped

The CBOR Tag Wrapped method is appropriate for use with CBOR Protocols that encode a single
CBOR data item. This data item is enveloped into two nested tags:

The outer tag is a self-described CBOR tag, 55799, as described in

Section 3.4.6 of [STD94]
.

The tag content of the outer tag is a second CBOR tag whose tag number has been allocated to
describe the specific Protocol involved, as discussed in Section 2.1. The tag content of this inner
tag is the single CBOR data item.

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

This method wraps the CBOR data item as CBOR tags usually do. Applications that need to send
the stored CBOR data item across a constrained network may wish to remove the two tags if the
type is understood from the protocol context, e.g., from a CoAP Content-Format Option (
Section
5.10.3 of [RFC7252]
). Therefore, a CBOR Protocol specification may pick the specific cases where
the CBOR Tag Wrapped enveloping method is to be used. For instance, it might specify its use for
storing the representation in a local file or for Web access, but not within protocol messages that
already provide the necessary context.

2.2.1.  Example

To construct an example without registering a new tag, we use the Content-Format ID assigned
for application/senml+cbor (112)
[IANA.CORE-PARAMETERS]

 of the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry

[RFC8428]

).

Using the technique described in Appendix B, this translates into the tag TN(112) = 1668546929.

With this tag, the SenML-CBOR pack [{0: "current", 6: 3, 2: 1.5}] would be enveloped as
follows (in diagnostic notation):

55799(1668546929([{0: "current", 6: 3, 2: 1.5}]))

Or in hex:

d9 d9f7                       # tag(55799)
   da 63740171                # tag(1668546929)
      81                      # array(1)
         a3                   # map(3)
            00                # unsigned(0)
            67                # text(7)
               63757272656e74 # "current"
            06                # unsigned(6)
            03                # unsigned(3)
            02                # unsigned(2)
            f9 3e00           # primitive(15872)

At the representation level, the unique fingerprint for application/senml+cbor is composed of
the 8 bytes d9d9f7da63740171 hex, after which the unadorned CBOR data (81... for the SenML
data) is appended.

2.3.  Enveloping Method: Labeled CBOR Sequence

The Labeled CBOR Sequence method is appropriate for use with CBOR Sequences as described in
[RFC8742]
.

This method prepends a newly constructed, separate data item to the CBOR Sequence, the label.

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

The label is a nesting of two tags, similar to but distinct from the CBOR Tag Wrapped methods,
with an inner tag content of a constant byte string. The total length of the label is 12 bytes.

1.

The outer tag is the self-described CBOR Sequence tag, 55800.

2.

The inner tag is a CBOR tag from the First Come First Served space that uniquely identifies
the CBOR Protocol. As with the CBOR Tag Wrapped method, the use of a 4-byte tag that
encodes without zero bytes is encouraged.

3.

The tag content is a 3-byte CBOR byte string containing 0x42_4f_52 ('BOR' in diagnostic
notation).

The outer tag in the label identifies the file as being a CBOR Sequence and does so with all the
desirable properties explained in
conflict with any known file types, and it is not valid Unicode in any Unicode encoding.

. Specifically, it does not appear to

Section 3.4.6 of [STD94]

The inner tag in the label identifies which CBOR Protocol is used, as described above.

The inner tag content is a constant byte string that is represented as 0x43_42_4f_52, the ASCII
characters "CBOR", which is the CBOR-encoded data item for the 3-byte string 0x42_4f_52 ('BOR'
in diagnostic notation).

The actual CBOR Protocol data then follows as the next data item(s) in the CBOR Sequence,
without a need for any further specific tag. The use of a CBOR Sequence allows the application to
trivially remove the first item with the two tags.

Should this file be reviewed by a human (directly in an editor or in a hexdump display), it will
include the ASCII characters "CBOR" prominently. This value is also included simply because the
inner nested tag needs to tag something.

2.3.1.  Example

To construct an example without registering a new tag, we use ID 272 as assigned for
application/missing-blocks+cbor-seq of the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry

[RFC9177]
.

Using the technique described in Appendix B, this translates into the tag TN(272) = 1668547090.

This is a somewhat contrived example, as this is not a media type that is likely to be committed to
storage. Nonetheless, with this tag, missing blocks list 0, 8, 15 would be enveloped as (in
diagnostic notation):

55800(1668547090('BOR')),
0,
8,
15

Or in hex:

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

# CBOR sequence with 4 elements
d9 d9f8         # tag(55800)
   da 63740212  # tag(1668547090)
      43        # bytes(3)
         424f52 # "BOR"
00 # unsigned(0)
08 # unsigned(8)
0f # unsigned(15)

At the representation level, the unique fingerprint for application/missing-blocks+cbor-seq
is composed of the 8 bytes d9d9f8da63740212 hex, after which the unadorned CBOR sequence
(00... for the missing block list given) is appended.

3.  Security Considerations

This document provides a way to identify CBOR Protocol objects. Clearly identifying CBOR
contents in files may have a variety of impacts.

The most obvious is that it may allow malware to identify interesting stored objects, and then
exfiltrate or corrupt them.

Protective applications (that check data) cannot rely on the applications they try to protect (that
use the data) to make exactly the same decisions in recognizing file formats. (This is an instance
of a check versus use issue.) For example, end-point assessment technologies should not solely
rely on the labeling approaches described in this document to decide whether to inspect a given
file. Similarly, depending on operating system configurations and related properties of the
execution environment, the labeling might influence the default application used to process a file
in a way that may not be predicted by a protective application.

4.  IANA Considerations

These IANA considerations are entirely about CBOR tags in the "Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) Tags" registry

[IANA.CBOR-TAGS]
.

Section 4.1 documents the allocation for a CBOR tag to be used in a CBOR sequence to identify the
sequence (an example for using this tag is found in Appendix C). Section 4.2 documents the
allocation for a CBOR tag to be used in the CBOR-Labeled Non-CBOR Data Enveloping Method
(Appendix D, which also shows examples). Section 4.3 allocates a CBOR tag for each actual or
potential CoAP Content-Format number (examples are in Appendix B).

4.1.  Labeled CBOR Sequence Tag

IANA has allocated tag 55800 for the Labeled CBOR Sequence Enveloping Method from the "CBOR
Tags" registry. IANA has updated this tag registration to point to this document.

This tag is from the First Come First Served area.

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

The value has been picked to have properties similar to the 55799 tag (

Section 3.4.6 of [STD94]

).

The hexadecimal representation of the encoded tag head is 0xd9_d9_f8.

This is not valid UTF-8: the first 0xd9 introduces a 3-byte sequence in UTF-8, but the 0xd9 as the
second value is not a valid second byte for UTF-8.

This is not valid UTF-16: the byte sequence 0xd9d9 (in either endian order) puts this value into
the UTF-16 high-half zone, which would signal that this is a 32-bit Unicode value. However, the
following 16-bit big-endian value 0xf8_xx is not a valid second sequence according to
On a little-endian system, it would be necessary to examine the fourth byte to determine if it is
valid. That next byte is determined by the subsequent encoding, and
already determined that no valid CBOR encodings result in valid UTF-16.

Section 3.4.6 of [STD94]

[RFC2781]
.

 has

Data Item:

tagged byte string

Semantics:

indicates that the file contains CBOR Sequences

4.2.  CBOR-Labeled Non-CBOR Data Tag

IANA has allocated tag 55801 for the CBOR-Labeled Non-CBOR Data Enveloping Method
(Appendix D) from the "CBOR Tags" registry. IANA updated this tag registration to point to this
document.

This tag is from the First Come First Served area.

The value has been picked to have properties similar to the 55799 tag (

Section 3.4.6 of [STD94]

).

The hexadecimal representation of the encoded tag head is 0xd9_d9_f9.

This is not valid UTF-8: the first 0xd9 introduces a 3-byte sequence in UTF-8, but the 0xd9 as the
second value is not a valid second byte for UTF-8.

This is not valid UTF-16: the byte sequence 0xd9d9 (in either endian order) puts this value into
the UTF-16 high-half zone, which would signal that this is a 32-bit Unicode value. However, the
following 16-bit big-endian value 0xf9_xx is not a valid second sequence according to
On a little-endian system, it would be necessary to examine the fourth byte to determine if it is
valid. That next byte is determined by the subsequent encoding, and
already determined that no valid CBOR encodings result in valid UTF-16.

Section 3.4.6 of [STD94]

[RFC2781]
.

 has

Data Item:

tagged byte string

Semantics:

indicates that the file starts with a CBOR-Labeled Non-CBOR Data label.

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

4.3.  CBOR Tags for CoAP Content-Format Numbers

IANA allocated the tag numbers 1668546817 (0x63740101) to 1668612095 (0x6374ffff) as follows:

Data Item:

byte string or any CBOR data item (see Appendix B)

Semantics:

the representation of content-format ct < 65025 is indicated by tag number
TN(ct) = 0x63740101 + (ct / 255) * 256 + ct % 255

Reference:

RFC 9277

The "CoAP Content-Formats" registry
[RFC7252]
.

[IANA.CORE-PARAMETERS]

 is defined in

Section 12.3 of

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

[C]

[RFC8742]

[STD94]

International Organization for Standardization "Information technology --
Programming languages -- C" ISO/IEC 9899:2018, Fourth Edition
, June 2018,
<https://www.iso.org/standard/74528.html>

.

,

,

,

Bormann, C. "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Sequences" RFC
8742 DOI 10.17487/RFC8742
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc8742>

, February 2020,

,

.

Bormann, C.
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
editor.org/info/std94>

P. Hoffman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
 and
<https://www.rfc-
,

, December 2020,

,

,

.

,

5.2.  Informative References

[C509-CERT]

[CoSWID]

,

Mattsson, J. P. Selander, G. Raza, S. Höglund, J.
Encoded X.509 Certificates (C509 Certificates)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
,
draft-ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert-04
doc/html/draft-ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert-04>

,
,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/

M. Furuhed "CBOR

, 10 July 2022,

, and

.

,

,

,

Birkholz, H. Fitzgerald-McKay, J. Schmidt, C.
Software Identification Tags" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-sacm-
coswid-22
coswid-22>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-sacm-

D. Waltermire "Concise

, 20 July 2022,

, and
,

,

,

,

.

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

[EAT]

[FILE]

Lundblade, L. Mandyam, G.
,
, and
(EAT)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-rats-eat-14
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-rats-eat-14>

,

,

.

J. O'Donoghue "The Entity Attestation Token

,

, 10 July 2022,

Wikipedia "file (command)"
, 2 July 2022,
title=File_(command)&oldid=1096086462>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
.

,

[IANA.CBOR-TAGS]

IANA "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Tags" <https://
.

www.iana.org/assignments/cbor-tags>

,

,

[IANA.CORE-PARAMETERS]

IANA "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters"

,

,

[MAGIC]

[RFC20]

[RFC2781]

[RFC6838]

[RFC7252]

[RFC8017]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8152]

[RFC8428]

[RFC8610]

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/core-parameters>

.

Bell Labs "archive (library) file format" Unix Programmer's Manual, First
,
Edition: File Formats
www/man51.pdf#page=4>

,
<https://www.bell-labs.com/usr/dmr/
, 3 November 1971,

.

Cerf, V. "ASCII format for network interchange" STD 80 RFC 20 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC0020

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc20>

, October 1969,

,
.

,

,

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC2781

 and

,
, February 2000,

F. Yergeau "UTF-16, an encoding of ISO 10646" RFC 2781 DOI

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2781>

.

Freed, N. Klensin, J.
,
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

T. Hansen "Media Type Specifications and Registration

, January 2013,

<https://

Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
,
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Moriarty, K., Ed. Kaliski, B. Jonsson, J.
Cryptography Specifications Version 2.2" RFC 8017 DOI 10.17487/RFC8017
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8017>
November 2016,

A. Rusch "PKCS #1: RSA

, and
,

,

,

,

.

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE)" RFC 8152 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8152>
10.17487/RFC8152
.

, July 2017,

,

,

,

,

Jennings, C. Shelby, Z. Arkko, J. Keranen, A.
,
,
,
Measurement Lists (SenML)" RFC 8428 DOI 10.17487/RFC8428
, August 2018,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8428>

C. Bormann "Sensor

, and

,

.

, and

Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
,
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Definition Language

, June 2019,

,

,

.

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

[RFC9110]

[RFC9177]

[X.690]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

 and

Boucadair, M.
Wise Transfer Options Supporting Robust Transmission" RFC 9177 DOI
10.17487/RFC9177

J. Shallow "Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) Block-

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9177>

, March 2022,

,

,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information technology - ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690 ISO/IEC 8825-1
2021,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690>

,

,

.

, February

Appendix A.  Advice to Protocol Designer

This document introduces a choice between wrapping a single CBOR data item into a pair of
identifying CBOR tags or prepending an identifying encoded CBOR data item (which, in turn,
contains a pair of identifying CBOR tags) to a CBOR Sequence (which might be a single data item).

Which should a protocol designer use?

In this discussion, one assumes that there is an object stored in a file, perhaps specified by a
system operator in a configuration file.

For example: a private key used in COSE operations, a public key/certificate in C509
or CBOR format, a recorded sensor reading stored for later transmission, or a COVID-19
vaccination certificate that needs to be displayed in QR code form.

[C509-CERT]

Both the Labeled CBOR Sequence and the wrapped tag can be trivially removed by an application
before sending the CBOR content out on the wire.

The Labeled CBOR Sequence can be slightly easier to remove as, in most cases, CBOR parsers will
return it as a unit and then return the actual CBOR item, which could be anything at all and
could include CBOR tags that do need to be sent on the wire.

On the other hand, having the Labeled CBOR Sequence in the file requires that all programs that
expect to examine that file be able to skip what appears to be a CBOR item with two tags nested
around a 3-byte byte string. The 3-byte entry is not of the format the program would normally
have processed, so it may be a surprise. On the other hand, CBOR parsers are generally tolerant
of tags that appear: many of them will process extra tags, making unknown tags available as
meta information. A program that is not expecting those tags may just ignore them.

As an example of where there was a problem with previous security systems, "PEM" format
certificate files grew to be able to contain multiple certificates by simple concatenation. The
PKCS1 format
certificate objects, but only when in PEM format. Annoyingly, when in binary DER format (
690]
most programs as they did not expect to read more than one item in the file.

[X.
, which like CBOR is self-delimiting), concatenation of certificates was not compatible with

 could also contain a private key object followed by one or more

[RFC8017]

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

The use of CBOR Tag Wrapped format is easier to retrofit to an existing format with existing and
unchangeable stored format for a single CBOR data item. This new sequence of tags is expected
to be trivially ignored by many existing programs when reading CBOR from files or similar units
of storage, even if the program only supports decoding a single data item (and not a CBOR
sequence). But, a naive program might also then transmit the additional tags across the network.
Removing the CBOR Tag Wrapped format requires knowledge of the two tags involved. Other
tags present might be needed.

For a representation matching a specific media-type that is carried in a CBOR byte string, the byte
string head will already have to be removed for use as such a representation, so it should be easy
to remove the enclosing tag heads as well. This is of particular interest with the predefined tags
provided in Appendix B for media types with CoAP Content-Format numbers.

Some considerations in the form of survey questions follow.

A.1.  Is the on-wire format new?

If the on-wire format is new, then it could be specified with the CBOR Tag Wrapped format if the
extra 8 bytes are not a problem. The stored format is then identical to the on-wire format.

If the 8 bytes are a problem on the wire (and they often are if CBOR is being considered), then the
Labeled CBOR Sequence format should be adopted for the stored format.

A.2.  Can many items be trivially concatenated?

If the programs that read the contents of the file already expect to process all of the CBOR data
items in the file (not just the first), then the Labeled CBOR Sequence format may be easily
retrofitted.

The programs involved may throw errors or warnings on the Labeled CBOR Sequence if they
have not yet been updated, but this may not be a problem.

There are situations where multiple objects may be concatenated into a single file. If each object
is preceded by a Labeled CBOR Sequence label, then there may be multiple such labels in the file.

A protocol based on CBOR Sequences may specify that Labeled CBOR Sequence labels can occur
within a CBOR Sequence, possibly even to switch to data items following in the sequence that are
of a different type.

If the CBOR-Sequence-based protocol does not define the semantics for or at least tolerate
embedded labels, care must be taken when concatenating Labeled CBOR Sequences to remove
the label from all but the first part.

As an example from legacy PEM-encoded PKIX certificates, many programs accept a
series of PKIX certificates in a single file in order to set up a certificate chain. The file
would contain not just the End-Entity (EE) certificate, but also any subordinate
certification authorities (CAs) needed to validate the EE. This mechanism actually

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

only works for PEM-encoded certificates, and not DER-encoded certificates. One of
the reasons for this specification is to make sure that CBOR-encoded certificates do
not suffer from this problem.

As an example of mixing of types, some TLS server programs also can accept both
their PEM-encoded private key and their PEM-encoded certificate in the same file.

If only one item is ever expected in the file, the use of the Labeled CBOR Sequence may present
an implementation hurdle to programs that previously just read a single data item and used it.

A.3.  Are there tags at the start?

If the Protocol expects to use other tags at its top level, then the use of the CBOR Tag Wrapped
format may be easy to explain at the same place in the protocol description.

Appendix B.  CBOR Tags for CoAP Content Formats

Section 5.10.3 of [RFC7252]
unsigned integer that identifies a specific content type (media type plus (optionally) parameters),
optionally together with a content coding (see

 defines the concept of a Content-Format, which is a short, 16-bit

Section 8.4.1 of [RFC9110]

).

Outside of a transfer protocol that indicates the Content-Format for a representation, it may be
necessary to identify the Content-Format of the representation when it is stored in a file, in
firmware, or when debugging.

This specification allocates CBOR tag numbers 1668546817 (0x63740101) to 1668612095
(0x6374FFFF) for the tagging of representations of specific content formats.

Using tags from this range, a byte string that is to be interpreted as a representation of Content-
Format number ct, with ct < 65025 (255*255), can be identified by enclosing it in a tag with tag
number TN(ct) where:

TN(ct) = 0x63740101 + (ct / 255) * 256 + ct % 255.

(where +, *, / and % stand for integer addition, multiplication, division, and remainder as in the
programming language C

[C]

.)

This formula avoids the use of zero bytes in the representation of the tag number.

Note that no tag numbers are assigned for Content-Format numbers in the following
range:

65025 ≤ ct ≤ 65535

(This range is in the range reserved for Experimental Use
of [RFC7252]
. The overlap of 25 code points between this experimental range with
the range this appendix defines tag numbers for can be used for experiments that
want to employ a tag number.)

[RFC8126]

Section 12.3

 by

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

Exceptionally, when used immediately as tag content of one of the tags 55799, 55800, or 55801,
the tag content is as follows:

Tag 55799 (Section 2.2):

One of:

1.

The CBOR data item within the representation (without byte-string wrapping). This only
works for Content-Formats that are represented by a single CBOR data item in identity
content-coding.

2.

The data items in the CBOR sequence within the representation, without byte string
wrapping, but wrapped in a CBOR array. This works for Content-Formats that are
represented by a CBOR sequence in identity content-coding.

Tags 55800 (Section 2.3) or 55801 (Appendix D):

the byte string 'BOR', signifying that the

representation of the given content-format follows in the file, in the way defined for these
tags.

B.1.  Content-Format Tag Examples

The "CoAP Content-Formats" registry
can be used as examples:

[IANA.CORE-PARAMETERS]

 defines content formats that

•

As discussed in Section 2.2.1, Content-Format ID 112 represents the application/senml+cbor
media type (no parameters). The corresponding tag number is TN(112) = 1668546929.

The following CDDL snippet can be used to identify application/senml+cbor representations:

senml-cbor = #6.1668546929(bstr)

Note that a byte string is used as the type of the tag content because a media type
representation in general can be any byte string.

•

Content-Format ID 272 represents the application/missing-blocks+cbor-seq media type,
which is a CBOR sequence

[RFC9177]
.

The corresponding tag number is TN(272) = 1668547090.

The following CDDL snippet can be used to identify application/missing-blocks+cbor-seq
representations as embedded in a CBOR byte string:

missing-blocks = #6.1668547090(bstr)

Appendix C.  Example from Openswan

The Openswan IPsec project has a daemon ("pluto") and two control programs ("addconn" and
"whack"). They communicate via a Unix-domain socket, over which a C-structure containing
pointers to strings is serialized using a bespoke mechanism. This is normally not a problem as
the structure is compiled by the same compiler; but when there are upgrades, it is possible for

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

the daemon and the control programs to get out of sync by the bespoke serialization. As a result,
there are extra compensations to deal with shutting the daemon down. During testing, it is
sometimes the case that upgrades are backed out.

In addition, when doing unit testing, the easiest way to load policy is to use the normal policy-
reading process, but that is not normally loaded in the daemon. Instead, the IPC that is normally
sent across the wire is compiled, serialized, and placed in a file. The above magic number is
included in the file and on the IPC in order to distinguish the "shutdown" command CBOR
operation.

In order to reduce the problems due to serialization, the serialization is being changed to CBOR.
Additionally, this change allows the IPC to be described by CDDL and any implementation
language to be used that can encode CBOR.

IANA has allocated the tag 1330664270 or 0x4f_50_53_4e for this purpose. As a result, each file
and each IPC is prefixed with a CBOR Sequence tag.

In diagnostic notation:

55800(1330664270(h'424F52'))

Or in hex:

d9 d9f8         # tag(55800)
   da 4f50534e  # tag(1330664270)
      43        # bytes(3)
         424f52 # "BOR"

Appendix D.  Using CBOR Labels for Non-CBOR Data

The CBOR-Labeled Non-CBOR data method is appropriate for adding a magic number to a Non-
CBOR data format, particularly one that can be described by a Content-Format tag (Appendix B).

This method prepends a CBOR data item to the Non-CBOR data; this data item is called the
"header" and, similar to the Labeled CBOR-Sequence label, consists of two nested tags around a
constant byte string for a total of 12 bytes.

1.

The outer tag is the CBOR-Labeled Non-CBOR Data tag, 55801.

2.

The inner tag is a CBOR tag from the First Come First Served space that uniquely identifies
the CBOR Protocol. As with CBOR Tag Wrapped, the use of a 4-byte tag is encouraged that
encodes without zero bytes.

3.

The tag content is a 3-byte CBOR byte string containing 0x42_4F_52 ('BOR' in diagnostic
notation).

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

The outer tag in the label identifies the file as being prefixed by a Non-CBOR data label and does
so with all the desirable properties explained in
. Specifically, it does not
appear to conflict with any known file types, and it is not valid Unicode in any Unicode encoding.

Section 3.4.6 of [STD94]

The inner tag in the label identifies which Non-CBOR Protocol is used.

The inner tag content is a constant byte string that is represented as 0x43_42_4f_52, the ASCII
characters "CBOR", which is the CBOR-encoded data item for the 3-byte string 0x42_4f_52 ('BOR'
in diagnostic notation).

The actual Non-CBOR Protocol data then follow directly appended to the CBOR representation of
the header. This allows the application to trivially remove the header item with the two nested
tags and the byte string.

As with the Labeled CBOR Sequence {#sequences}, this choice of the tag content places the ASCII
characters "CBOR" prominently into the header.

D.1.  Content-Format Tag Examples

The "CoAP Content-Formats" registry
can be used as examples:

[IANA.CORE-PARAMETERS]

 defines content formats that

•

Content-Format ID 432 represents the application/td+json media type (no parameters).

The corresponding tag number is TN(432) = 1668547250.

The following CDDL snippet can be used to identify a CBOR-Labeled Non-CBOR data for
application/td+json representations:

td-json-header = #6.55801(#6.1668547250('BOR'))

•

Content-Format 11050 represents the application/json media type in deflate content-coding.

The corresponding tag number is TN(11050) = 1668557910.

The following CDDL snippet can be used to identify a CBOR-Labeled Non-CBOR data for
application/json representations compressed in deflate content-coding:

json-deflate-header = #6.55801(#6.1668557910('BOR'))

Acknowledgements

The CBOR WG brainstormed this protocol on January 20, 2021 via a number of productive email
exchanges on the mailing list.

Contributors

Josef 'Jeff' Sipek
Email:

 jeffpc@josefsipek.net

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9277

cbor-file-magic

August 2022

Authors' Addresses

Michael Richardson
Sandelman Software Works
Email:

 mcr+ietf@sandelman.ca

Carsten Bormann
Universität Bremen TZI
Postfach 330440
D-28359 Bremen
Germany
Phone:
Email:

 +49-421-218-63921
 cabo@tzi.org

Richardson & Bormann

Standards Track

Page 18

