Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9627
Standards Track
March 2025
2070-1721
J. Lennox
8x8 / Jitsi

J. Uberti
OpenAI

D. Hong
Google

S. Holmer
Google

M. Flodman
Google

RFC 9627
The Layer Refresh Request (LRR) RTCP Feedback
Message

Abstract

This memo describes the RTCP Payload-Specific Feedback Message Layer Refresh Request (LRR),
which can be used to request a state refresh of one or more substreams of a layered media
stream. This document also defines its use with several RTP payloads for scalable media formats.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9627
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9627

LRR RTCP Feedback

March 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Terminology

2.1.  Terminology

3.  Layer Refresh Request

3.1.  Message Format

3.2.  Semantics

4.  Usage with Specific Codecs

4.1.  H.264 SVC

4.2.  VP8

4.3.  H.265

5.  Usage with Different Scalability Transmission Mechanisms

6.  SDP Definitions

7.  Security Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

5

5

7

7

7

8

9

10

10

11

11

11

11

12

13

RTCP [RFC3550] Payload-Specific Feedback Message [RFC4585]

This memo describes an
Refresh Request" (LRR), which is designed to allow a receiver of a layered media stream to
request that one or more of its substreams be refreshed. The stream can then be decoded by an
endpoint that previously was not receiving those layers, without requiring that the entire stream
be refreshed (as it would be if the receiver sent a
[RFC8082]

Full Intra Request (FIR) [RFC5104]

; see also

 "Layer

).

The feedback message is applicable to both temporally and spatially scaled streams and to both
single-stream and multi-stream scalability modes.

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9627

LRR RTCP Feedback

March 2025

2.  Conventions and Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.1.  Terminology

A "layer refresh point" is a point in a scalable stream after which a decoder, which previously
had been able to decode only some (possibly none) of the available layers of stream, is able to
decode a greater number of the layers.

For spatial (or quality) layers, in normal encoding, a subpicture can depend both on earlier
pictures of that spatial layer and also on lower-layer pictures of the current picture. However, a
layer refresh typically requires that a spatial-layer picture be encoded in a way that references
only the lower-layer subpictures of the current picture, not any earlier pictures of that spatial
layer. Additionally, the encoder must promise that no earlier pictures of that spatial layer will be
used as reference in the future.

However, even in a layer refresh, layers other than the ones being refreshed may still maintain
dependency on earlier content of the stream. This is the difference between a layer refresh and a
FIR [RFC5104]
that actually need to be refreshed at any given time.

. This minimizes the coding overhead of refresh to only those parts of the stream

The spatial-layer refresh of an enhancement layer is shown below. The "<--" indicates a coding
dependency.

     ... <--  S1  <--  S1       S1  <--  S1  <-- ...
               |        |        |        |
              \/       \/       \/       \/
     ... <--  S0  <--  S0  <--  S0  <--  S0  <-- ...

               1        2        3        4

Figure 1: Refresh of a Spatial Enhancement Layer

In Figure 1, frame 3 is a layer refresh point for spatial layer S1; a decoder that had previously
only been decoding spatial layer S0 would be able to decode layer S1 starting at frame 3.

The spatial-layer refresh of a base layer is shown below. The "<--" indicates a coding dependency.

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9627

LRR RTCP Feedback

March 2025

     ... <--  S1  <--  S1  <--  S1  <--  S1  <-- ...
               |        |        |        |
              \/       \/       \/       \/
     ... <--  S0  <--  S0       S0  <--  S0  <-- ...

               1        2        3        4

Figure 2: Refresh of a Spatial Base Layer

In Figure 2, frame 3 is a layer refresh point for spatial layer S0; a decoder that had previously
not been decoding the stream at all could decode layer S0 starting at frame 3.

For temporal layers, while normal encoding allows frames to depend on earlier frames of the
same temporal layer, layer refresh requires that the layer be "temporally nested", i.e., use as
reference only earlier frames of a lower temporal layer, not any earlier frames of this temporal
layer and promise that no future frames of this temporal layer will reference frames of this
temporal layer before the refresh point. In many cases, the temporal structure of the stream will
mean that all frames are temporally nested; in this case, decoders will have no need to send LRR
messages for the stream.

The temporal layer refresh is shown below. The "<--" indicates a coding dependency.

        ...  <----- T1  <------ T1          T1  <------ ...
                   /           /           /
                 |_          |_          |_
     ... <--  T0  <------ T0  <------ T0  <------ T0  <--- ...

               1     2     3     4     5     6     7

Figure 3: Refresh of a Temporal Layer

In Figure 3, frame 6 is a layer refresh point for temporal layer T1; a decoder that had previously
only been decoding temporal layer T0 would be able to decode layer T1 starting at frame 6.

An inherently temporally nested stream is shown below. The "<--" indicates a coding dependency.

                    T1          T1          T1
                   /           /           /
                 |_          |_          |_
     ... <--  T0  <------ T0  <------ T0  <------ T0  <--- ...

               1     2     3     4     5     6     7

Figure 4: An Inherently Temporally Nested Stream

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9627

LRR RTCP Feedback

March 2025

In Figure 4, the stream is temporally nested in its ordinary structure; a decoder receiving layer
T0 can begin decoding layer T1 at any point.

A "layer index" is a numeric label for a specific spatial and temporal layer of a scalable stream. It
consists of both a "temporal-layer ID" identifying the temporal layer and a "layer ID" identifying
the spatial or quality layer. The details of how layers of a scalable stream are labeled are codec
specific. Details for several codecs are defined in Section 4.

3.  Layer Refresh Request

A layer refresh frame can be requested by sending a Layer Refresh Request (LRR), which is an
RTCP [RFC3550] payload-specific feedback message [RFC4585]
 asking the encoder to encode a
frame that makes it possible to upgrade to a higher layer. The LRR contains one or two tuples,
indicating the temporal and spatial layer the decoder wants to upgrade to and (optionally) the
currently highest temporal and spatial layer the decoder can decode.

The specific format of the tuples, and the mechanism by which a receiver recognizes a refresh
frame, is codec dependent. Usage for several codecs is discussed in Section 4.

The design of LRR follows the FIR model (
reliability, and use in multipoint conferences.

Section 3.5.1 of [RFC5104]

) for its retransmission,

The LRR message is identified by RTCP packet type value PT=PSFB and FMT=10. The Feedback
 contain one or more LRR entries. Each entry applies to a
Control Information (FCI) field
different media sender, identified by its Synchronization Source (SSRC).

MUST

3.1.  Message Format

The FCI for the Layer Refresh Request consists of one or more FCI entries, the content of which is
depicted in Figure 5. The length of the LRR feedback message
 be set to 2+3*N 32-bit words,
where N is the number of FCI entries.

MUST

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                              SSRC                             |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | Seq nr.       |C| Payload Type| Reserved                      |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   | RES     | TTID| TLID          | RES     | CTID| CLID          |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: Layer Refresh Request FCI Format

Synchronization Source (SSRC) (32 bits):

The SSRC value of the media sender that is requested to send a layer refresh point.

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9627

LRR RTCP Feedback

March 2025

Seq nr. (8 bits):

The command sequence number. The sequence number space is unique for each pairing of
the SSRC of command source and the SSRC of the command target. The sequence number
SHALL
repetition

 be increased by 1 for each new command (modulo 256, so the value after 255 is 0). A

 increase the sequence number. The initial value is arbitrary.

SHALL NOT

C (1 bit):

A flag bit indicating whether the Current Temporal-layer ID (CTID) and Current Layer ID
(CLID) fields are present in the FCI. If this bit is 0, the sender of the LRR message is requesting
refresh of all layers up to and including the target layer.

Payload Type (7 bits):

The RTP payload type for which the LRR is being requested. This gives the context in which
the target layer index is to be interpreted.

Reserved (RES) (three separate fields of 16 bits / 5 bits / 5 bits):

All bits

SHALL

 be set to zero by the sender and

SHALL

 be ignored on reception.

Target Temporal-layer ID (TTID) (3 bits):

The temporal-layer ID of the target layer for which the receiver wishes a refresh point.

Target Layer ID (TLID) (8 bits):

The layer ID of the target spatial or quality layer for which the receiver wishes a refresh
point. Its format is dependent on the payload type field.

Current Temporal-layer ID (CTID) (3 bits):

If C is 1, the ID of the current temporal layer being decoded by the receiver. This message is
not requesting refresh of layers at or below this layer. If C is 0, this field
by the sender and

 be ignored on reception.

 be set to zero

SHALL

SHALL

Current Layer ID (CLID) (8 bits):

If C is 1, the layer ID of the current spatial or quality layer being decoded by the receiver. This
 be
message is not requesting refresh of layers at or below this layer. If C is 0, this field
set to zero by the sender and

 be ignored on reception.

SHALL

SHALL

MUST NOT

When C is 1, TTID
one of either TTID or TLID
MUST
target layer index <TTID, TLID>
CLID>. A sender
simultaneously.

MAY

 be less than CTID, and TLID

 be less than CLID; at least
MUST NOT
 be greater than CTID or CLID, respectively. That is to say, the
 be a layer upgrade from the current layer index <CTID,
MUST

 request an upgrade in both temporal and spatial or quality layers

A receiver receiving an LRR feedback packet that does not satisfy the requirements of the
previous paragraph, i.e., one where the C bit is present but the TTID is less than the CTID or the
TLID is less than the CLID,

 discard the request.

MUST

Note: The syntax of the TTID, TLID, CTID, and CLID fields match, by design, the TID
and LID fields in

[RFC9626]
.

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9627

LRR RTCP Feedback

March 2025

3.2.  Semantics

Within the common packet header for feedback messages (as defined in
[RFC4585]
media source" is not used and
LRR command applies are in the corresponding FCI entries. An LRR message
MAY
requests to multiple media senders, using one FCI entry per target media sender.

), the "SSRC of packet sender" field indicates the source of the request, and the "SSRC of
 be set to zero. The SSRCs of the media senders to which the

Section 6.1 of

 contain

SHALL

Upon reception of an LRR, the encoder
soon as possible.

MUST

 send a decoder refresh point (see Section 2.1) as

MUST

The sender
described in
refreshing frames, this may restrict a sender's ability to send a layer refresh point quickly.

 respect bandwidth limits provided by the application of congestion control, as

. As layer refresh points will often be larger than non-

Section 5 of [RFC5104]

MUST NOT

 be sent as a reaction to picture losses due to packet loss or corruption; it is

An LRR
RECOMMENDED
used only in situations where there is an explicit change in a decoder's behavior: for example,
when a receiver will start decoding a layer that it previously had been discarding.

a PLI (Picture Loss Indication) [RFC4585]

 instead. An LRR

SHOULD

 to use

 be

4.  Usage with Specific Codecs

In order for an LRR to be used with a scalable codec, the format of the temporal and layer ID
fields (for both the target and current layer indices) needs to be specified for that codec's RTP
packetization. New RTP packetization specifications for scalable codecs
is done. (The
it is used with the Video Frame Marking RTP Header Extension described in
syntax

 define how this
, for instance, has done so.) If the payload also specifies how

 be defined in the same manner as the TID and LID fields in that header.

VP9 payload [RFC9628]

[RFC9626]

SHOULD

MUST

, the

4.1.  H.264 SVC

H.264 SVC [RFC6190]

 defines temporal, dependency (spatial), and quality scalability modes.

            +---------------+---------------+
            |0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|
            +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
            | RES     | TID |R|  DID  | QID |
            +---------------+---------------+

Figure 6: H.264 SVC Layer Index Fields Format

Figure 6 shows the format of the layer index fields for H.264 SVC streams. The "R" and "RES"
fields
[RFC6190]

 for details on the dependency_id (DID), quality_id (QID), and temporal_id (TID) fields.

 be set to zero on transmission and ignored on reception. See

Section 1.1.3 of

MUST

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9627

LRR RTCP Feedback

March 2025

A dependency or quality layer refresh of a given layer in H.264 SVC can be identified by the I bit
(idr_flag) in the extended Network Abstraction Layer (NAL) unit header, present in NAL unit
types 14 (prefix NAL unit) and 20 (coded scalable slice). Layer refresh of the base layer can also
be identified by its NAL unit type of its coded slices, which is "5" rather than "1". A dependency
or quality layer refresh is complete once this bit has been seen on all the appropriate layers (in
decoding order) above the current layer index (if any, or beginning from the base layer if not)
through the target layer index.

Note that as the I bit in a Payload Content Scalability Information (PACSI) header is set if the
corresponding bit is set in any of the aggregated NAL units it describes; thus, it is not sufficient
to identify layer refresh when NAL units of multiple dependency or quality layers are
aggregated.

In H.264 SVC, temporal layer refresh information can be determined from various Supplemental
Encoding Information (SEI) messages in the bitstream.

Whether an H.264 SVC stream is scalably nested can be determined from the Scalability
Information SEI message's temporal_id_nesting flag. If this flag is set in a stream's currently
applicable Scalability Information SEI, receivers
that stream, as every frame is implicitly a temporal layer refresh point. (The Scalability
Information SEI message may also be available in the signaling negotiation of H.264 SVC as the
sprop-scalability-info parameter.)

 send temporal LRR messages for

SHOULD NOT

If a stream's temporal_id_nesting flag is not set, the Temporal Level Switching Point SEI message
identifies temporal layer switching points. A temporal layer refresh is satisfied when this SEI
message is present in a frame with the target layer index, if the message's delta_frame_num
refers to a frame with the requested current layer index. (Alternately, temporal layer refresh can
also be satisfied by a complete state refresh, such as an Instantaneous Decoding Refresh (IDR).)
Senders that support receiving an LRR for streams that are not temporally nested
 insert
Temporal Level Switching Point SEI messages as appropriate.

MUST

4.2.  VP8

VP8 RTP payload format [RFC7741]

 defines temporal scalability modes. It does not support

The
spatial scalability.

            +---------------+---------------+
            |0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|
            +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
            | RES     | TID | RES           |
            +---------------+---------------+

Figure 7: VP8 Layer Index Field Format

Figure 7 shows the format of the layer index field for VP8 streams. The "RES" fields
to zero on transmission and be ignored on reception. See
the TID field.

Section 4.2 of [RFC7741]

MUST

 be set
 for details on

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9627

LRR RTCP Feedback

March 2025

A VP8 layer refresh point can be identified by the presence of the Y bit (see
payload header. When this bit is set, this and all subsequent frames depend only on the current
base temporal layer. On receipt of an LRR for a VP8 stream, a sender that supports LRRs
encode the stream so it can set the Y bit in a packet whose temporal layer is at or below the
target layer index.

[RFC7741]

MUST

) in the VP8

Note that in VP8, not every layer switch point can be identified by the Y bit since the Y bit
implies layer switch of all layers, not just the layer in which it is sent. Thus, the use of an LRR
with VP8 can result in some inefficiency in transmission. However, this is not expected to be a
major issue for temporal structures in normal use.

4.3.  H.265

The initial version of the
 defines temporal scalability, with
protocol elements reserved for spatial or other scalability modes (which are expected to be
defined in a future version of the specification).

H.265 payload format [RFC7798]

            +---------------+---------------+
            |0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|
            +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
            | RES     | TID |RES| layer ID  |
            +---------------+---------------+

Figure 8: H.265 Layer Index Fields Format

Figure 8 shows the format of the layer index field for H.265 streams. The "RES" fields
to zero on transmission and ignored on reception. See
the layer ID and TID fields.

Section 1.1.4 of [RFC7798]

MUST
 for details on

 be set

H.265 streams signal whether they are temporally nested by using the
vps_temporal_id_nesting_flag in the Video Parameter Set (VPS) and the
sps_temporal_id_nesting_flag in the Sequence Parameter Set (SPS). If this flag is set in a stream's
currently applicable VPS or SPS, receivers
stream, as every frame is implicitly a temporal layer refresh point.

 send temporal LRR messages for that

SHOULD NOT

If a stream's sps_temporal_id_nesting_flag is not set, the NAL unit types 2 to 5 inclusively identify
temporal layer switching points. A layer refresh to any higher target temporal layer is satisfied
when a NAL unit type of 4 or 5 with TID equal to 1 more than current TID is seen. Alternatively,
layer refresh to a target temporal layer can be incrementally satisfied with a NAL unit type of 2
or 3. In this case, given current TID = TO and target TID = TN, layer refresh to TN is satisfied
when a NAL unit type of 2 or 3 is seen for TID = T1, then TID = T2, all the way up to TID = TN
(note that TN and TO refer to nonce variables in this instance). During this incremental process,
layer refresh to TN can be completely satisfied as soon as a NAL unit type of 2 or 3 is seen.

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9627

LRR RTCP Feedback

March 2025

Of course, temporal layer refresh can also be satisfied whenever any Intra-Random Access Point
(IRAP) NAL unit type (with values 16-23, inclusively) is seen. An IRAP picture is similar to an IDR
picture in H.264 (NAL unit type of 5 in H.264) where decoding of the picture can start without
any older pictures.

In the (future) H.265 payloads that support spatial scalability, a spatial-layer refresh of a specific
layer can be identified by NAL units with the requested layer ID and NAL unit types between 16
and 21, inclusive. A dependency or quality layer refresh is complete once NAL units of this type
have been seen on all the appropriate layers (in decoding order) above the current layer index
(if any, or beginning from the base layer if not) through the target layer index.

5.  Usage with Different Scalability Transmission Mechanisms

Several different mechanisms are defined for how scalable streams can be transmitted in RTP.
Section 3.7 of "A Taxonomy of Semantics and Mechanisms for Real-Time Transport Protocol
(RTP) Sources" [RFC7656]
Transport (SRST), Multiple RTP streams on a Single media Transport (MRST), and Multiple RTP
streams on Multiple media Transports (MRMT).

 defines three mechanisms: Single RTP stream on a Single media

The LRR message is applicable to all these mechanisms. For MRST and MRMT mechanisms, the
"media source" field of the LRR FCI is set to the SSRC of the RTP stream containing the layer
indicated by the Current Layer Index (if "C" is 1) or the stream containing the base encoded
stream (if "C" is 0). For MRMT, the LRR message is sent on the RTP session on which this stream is
sent. On receipt, the sender
in decode order.

 refresh all the layers requested in the stream, simultaneously

MUST

6.  SDP Definitions

Section 7 of [RFC5104]
 defines Session Description Protocol (SDP) procedures for indicating and
negotiating support for Codec Control Messages (CCM) in SDP. This document extends this with a
new codec control command, "lrr", which indicates support of the LRR.

Figure 9 gives a formal
extension, extending the grammar defined in

[RFC5104]
.

Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) [RFC5234]

 showing this grammar

rtcp-fb-ccm-param =/ SP "lrr"    ; Layer Refresh Request

Figure 9: Syntax of the "lrr" CCM

The Offer-Answer considerations defined in

Section 7.2 of [RFC5104]

 apply.

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9627

LRR RTCP Feedback

March 2025

7.  Security Considerations

All the security considerations of
as well. Additionally, media senders receiving LRR feedback packets
payload types and layer indices they are receiving are valid for the stream they are currently
sending, and discard the requests if not.

FIR feedback packets [RFC5104]

 validate that the

 apply to LRR feedback packets

MUST

8.  IANA Considerations

This document defines a new entry to the "Codec Control Messages" registry of the "Session
Description Protocol (SDP) Parameters" registry group, according to the following data:

Value Name:
Long Name:
Usable with:
Mux:
Reference:

lrr
Layer Refresh Request Command
ccm
IDENTICAL-PER-PT
RFC 9627

This document also defines a new entry to the "FMT Values for PSFB Payload Types" registry of
the "Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) Parameters" registry group, according to the following
data:

LRR

Name:
Long Name:
10
Value:
Reference:

Layer Refresh Request Command

RFC 9627

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3550]

[RFC4585]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Schulzrinne, H. Casner, S. Frederick, R.
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
, and
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

,

.

,

,

,

,

,

,

Ott, J. Wenger, S. Sato, N. Burmeister, C.
J. Rey "Extended RTP Profile for
Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" RFC
4585 DOI 10.17487/RFC4585
,
rfc4585>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2006,

, and

,

,

.

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9627

LRR RTCP Feedback

March 2025

[RFC5104]

[RFC5234]

[RFC6190]

[RFC7741]

[RFC7798]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9626]

,

Wenger, S. Chandra, U. Westerlund, M.
Messages in the RTP Audio-Visual Profile with Feedback (AVPF)" RFC 5104 DOI
10.17487/RFC5104

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5104>

B. Burman "Codec Control

, February 2008,

, and

,

,

.

,

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

.

,

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

,

, January 2008,

<https://

,

Wenger, S. Wang, Y.-K. Schierl, T.
, and
Scalable Video Coding" RFC 6190 DOI 10.17487/RFC6190
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6190>
.

,
,

A. Eleftheriadis "RTP Payload Format for

,

, May 2011,

<https://

,

Westin, P. Lundin, H. Glover, M. Uberti, J.
,
,
Format for VP8 Video" RFC 7741 DOI 10.17487/RFC7741
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7741>
.

, and

,

F. Galligan "RTP Payload

,

, March 2016,

<https://

,

Wang, Y.-K. Sanchez, Y. Schierl, T. Wenger, S.
,
Payload Format for High Efficiency Video Coding (HEVC)" RFC 7798 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7798>
10.17487/RFC7798

M. M. Hannuksela "RTP

, March 2016,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Zanaty, M. Berger, E.
, and
,
Extension" RFC 9626 DOI 10.17487/RFC9626
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9626>

,

.

S. Nandakumar "Video Frame Marking RTP Header
, March 2025,

<https://www.rfc-

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC7656]

[RFC8082]

[RFC9628]

,

,

Lennox, J. Gross, K. Nandakumar, S. Salgueiro, G.
B. Burman, Ed. "A
,
Taxonomy of Semantics and Mechanisms for Real-Time Transport Protocol
<https://
(RTP) Sources" RFC 7656 DOI 10.17487/RFC7656
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7656>

, November 2015,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Wenger, S. Lennox, J. Burman, B.
Messages in the RTP Audio-Visual Profile with Feedback with Layered Codecs"
,
RFC 8082 DOI 10.17487/RFC8082
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 2017,
rfc8082>

M. Westerlund "Using Codec Control

, and

,
.

,

,

Uberti, J. Holmer, S. Flodman, M. Hong, D.
,
Format for VP9 Video" RFC 9628 DOI 10.17487/RFC9628
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9628>
.

, and

,

,

J. Lennox "RTP Payload

,

, March 2025,

<https://

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9627

LRR RTCP Feedback

March 2025

Authors' Addresses

Jonathan Lennox
8x8, Inc. / Jitsi
Jersey City NJ 07302
,
United States of America
Email:

jonathan.lennox@8x8.com

Danny Hong
Google, Inc.
315 Hudson St.
New York NY 10013
,
United States of America
Email:

dannyhong@google.com

Justin Uberti
OpenAI
1455 3rd St
San Francisco CA 94158
United States of America
Email:

justin@uberti.name

,

Stefan Holmer
Google, Inc.
Kungsbron 2
SE-111 22 Stockholm
Sweden
Email:

holmer@google.com

Magnus Flodman
Google, Inc.
Kungsbron 2
SE-111 22 Stockholm
Sweden
Email:

mflodman@google.com

Lennox, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

