Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9709
Standards Track
January 2025
2070-1721
R. Housley
Vigil Security

RFC 9709
Encryption Key Derivation in the Cryptographic
Message Syntax (CMS) Using HKDF with SHA-256

Abstract

This document specifies the derivation of the content-encryption key or the content-
authenticated-encryption key in the Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) using the HMAC-based
Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation Function (HKDF) with SHA-256. The use of this mechanism
provides protection against an attacker that manipulates the content-encryption algorithm
identifier or the content-authenticated-encryption algorithm identifier.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9709
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Housley

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9709

Encryption Key Derivation in CMS

January 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  ASN.1

1.2.  Terminology

1.3.  Cryptographic Algorithm Agility Considerations

2.  Use of HKDF with SHA-256 to Derive Encryption Keys

3.  The id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 Algorithm Identifier

4.  SMIMECapabilities Attribute Conventions

5.  Use of HKDF with SHA-256 with CMS

5.1.  Enveloped-Data Content Type

5.2.  Encrypted-Data Content Type

5.3.  Authenticated-Enveloped-Data Content Type

6.  Security Considerations

7.  Privacy Considerations

8.  Operational Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

Appendix B.  CMS_CEK_HKDF_SHA256 Function Examples

B.1.  CMS_CEK_HKDF_SHA256 with AES-128-GCM

B.2.  CMS_CEK_HKDF_SHA256 with AES-128-CBC

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

6

6

6

7

8

9

9

9

10

10

10

11

12

12

13

13

13

Housley

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9709

Encryption Key Derivation in CMS

January 2025

1.  Introduction

This document specifies the derivation of the content-encryption key for the Cryptographic
Message Syntax (CMS) enveloped-data content type
[RFC5652]
CMS encrypted-data content type
authenticated-enveloped-data content type

, the content-encryption key for the
, or the content-authenticated-encryption key for the
[RFC5083]
.

[RFC5652]

The use of this mechanism provides protection against an attacker that manipulates the content-
encryption algorithm identifier or the content-authenticated-encryption algorithm identifier.
Johannes Roth and Falko Strenzke presented such an attack at IETF 118

[RS2023]

, where:

1.

The attacker intercepts a CMS authenticated-enveloped-data content
[RFC5084]
.
either AES-CCM or AES-GCM

[RFC5083]

 that uses

The attacker turns the intercepted content into a "garbage" CMS enveloped-data content
2.
Section 6 of [RFC5652]
(
) that is composed of AES-CBC guess blocks.

3.

The attacker sends the "garbage" message to the victim, and the victim reveals the result of
the decryption to the attacker.

4.

If any of the transformed plaintext blocks match the guess for that block, then the attacker
learns the plaintext for that block.

With highly structured messages, one block can reveal the only sensitive part of the original
message.

This attack is thwarted if the encryption key depends upon the delivery of the unmodified
algorithm identifier.

The mitigation for this attack has three parts:

1.

Potential recipients include the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier (with no
parameters) in S/MIME Capabilities to indicate support for this mitigation.

2.

As a flag to the recipient that this mitigation is being used, carry the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256
algorithm identifier as the contentEncryptionAlgorithm in the EncryptedContentInfo
structure. This structure is used in the enveloped-data content type, the encrypted-data
content type, and the authenticated-enveloped-data content type. The parameters field of the
id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier identifies the content-encryption algorithm or the
content-authenticated-encryption algorithm and any associated parameters.

3.

Perform encryption with a derived content-encryption key or content-authenticated-
encryption key:

      CEK' = HKDF(CEK, AlgorithmIdentifier)

Housley

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9709

Encryption Key Derivation in CMS

January 2025

1.1.  ASN.1

CMS values are generated using ASN.1
Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)

[X680]
[X690]
.

, using the Basic Encoding Rules (BER) and the

1.2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.3.  Cryptographic Algorithm Agility Considerations

There is no provision for key derivation functions other than HKDF, and there is no provision for
hash functions other than SHA-256. If there is ever a need to support another key derivation
function or another hash function, it will be very straightforward to assign a new object
identifier. At this point, keeping the design very simple seems most important.

2.  Use of HKDF with SHA-256 to Derive Encryption Keys

 to derive output keying material (OKM) from input keying material (IKM). HKDF is

The mitigation uses the HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation Function (HKDF)
[RFC5869]
used with the SHA-256 hash function
AlgorithmIdentifier as the optional info input value. The encoded value includes the ASN.1 tag
for SEQUENCE (0x30), the length, and the value. This AlgorithmIdentifier is carried as the
parameter to the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier. If an attacker were to change the
originator-provided AlgorithmIdentifier, then the recipient will derive a different content-
encryption key or content-authenticated-encryption key.

. The derivation includes the DER-encoded

[FIPS180]

The CMS_CEK_HKDF_SHA256 function uses the HKDF-Extract and HKDF-Expand functions to
derive the OKM from the IKM:

Inputs:
IKM
info

Output:
OKM

input keying material
DER-encoded AlgorithmIdentifier

output keying material (same size as IKM)

The output OKM is calculated as follows:

Housley

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9709

Encryption Key Derivation in CMS

January 2025

   OKM_SIZE = len(IKM)  /* length in octets */
   IF OKM_SIZE > 8160 THEN raise error

   salt = "The Cryptographic Message Syntax"
   PRK = HKDF-Extract(salt, IKM)

   OKM = HKDF-Expand(PRK, info, OKM_SIZE)

3.  The id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 Algorithm Identifier

The id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier indicates that the CMS_CEK_HKDF_SHA256
function defined in Section 2 is used to derive the content-encryption key or the content-
authenticated-encryption key.

The following object identifier identifies the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm:

   id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1)
      member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9)
      id-smime(16) alg(3) 31 }

The id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 parameters field has an ASN.1 type of AlgorithmIdentifier.

Using the conventions from
as:

[RFC5911]

, the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier is defined

  ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier ::=
    AlgorithmIdentifier{CONTENT-ENCRYPTION, { ... } }

  cea-CEKHKDFSHA256 CONTENT-ENCRYPTION ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256
    PARAMS TYPE ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier ARE required
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 } }

4.  SMIMECapabilities Attribute Conventions

The SMIMECapabilities attribute is defined in
announces the set of cryptographic functions it supports using the SMIMECapabilities attribute.

Section 2.5.2 of [RFC8551]

. An S/MIME client

If an S/MIME client supports the mechanism in this document, the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 object
identifier
encoding

 be included in the set of cryptographic functions. The parameter with this

 be absent.

SHOULD

MUST

The encoding for id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256, in hexadecimal, is:

   30 0d 06 0b 2a 86 48 86 f7 0d 01 09 10 03 1f

Housley

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9709

Encryption Key Derivation in CMS

January 2025

5.  Use of HKDF with SHA-256 with CMS

This section describes the originator and recipient processing to implement this mitigation for
each of the CMS encrypting content types.

5.1.  Enveloped-Data Content Type

The fourth step of constructing an enveloped-data content type is repeated below from
of [RFC5652]
:

Section 6

4.

The content is encrypted with the content-encryption key. Content encryption may
require that the content be padded to a multiple of some block size; see Section 6.3.

To implement this mitigation, the originator expands this step as follows:

•

Include the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier in the
contentEncryptionAlgorithm.algorithm field of the EncryptedContentInfo structure, and set
the contentEncryptionAlgorithm.parameters field to the AlgorithmIdentifier for the content-
encryption algorithm that will be used to encrypt the content, including both the algorithm
and optional parameters.

•

Derive the new content-encryption key (CEK') from the original content-encryption key (CEK)
and the ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier, which is carried in the
contentEncryptionAlgorithm.parameters field:

CEK' = CMS_CEK_HKDF_SHA256(CEK, ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier)

•

The content is encrypted with the new content-encryption key (CEK'). Content encryption
may require that the content be padded to a multiple of some block size; see
Section 6.3 of
[RFC5652]

.

The presence of the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier in the
contentEncryptionAlgorithm.algorithm field of the EncryptedContentInfo structure tells the
recipient to derive the new content-encryption key (CEK') as shown above, and then use it for
decryption of the EncryptedContent. If the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier is not
present in the contentEncryptionAlgorithm.algorithm field of the EncryptedContentInfo
structure, then the recipient uses the original content-encryption key (CEK) for decryption of the
EncryptedContent.

5.2.  Encrypted-Data Content Type

As specified in

Section 8 of [RFC5652]

, the content-encryption key is managed by other means.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9709

Encryption Key Derivation in CMS

January 2025

To implement this mitigation, the originator performs the following:

•

Include the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier in the
contentEncryptionAlgorithm.algorithm field of the EncryptedContentInfo structure, and set
the contentEncryptionAlgorithm.parameters field to the AlgorithmIdentifier for the content-
encryption algorithm that will be used to encrypt the content, including both the algorithm
and optional parameters.

•

Derive the new content-encryption key (CEK') from the original content-encryption key (CEK)
and the ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier, which is carried in the
contentEncryptionAlgorithm.parameters field:

CEK' = CMS_CEK_HKDF_SHA256(CEK, ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier)

•

The content is encrypted with the new content-encryption key (CEK'). Content encryption
Section 6.3 of
may require that the content be padded to a multiple of some block size; see
[RFC5652]

.

The presence of the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier in the
contentEncryptionAlgorithm.algorithm field of the EncryptedContentInfo structure tells the
recipient to derive the new content-encryption key (CEK') as shown above, and then use it for
decryption of the EncryptedContent. If the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier is not
present in the contentEncryptionAlgorithm.algorithm field of the EncryptedContentInfo
structure, then the recipient uses the original content-encryption key (CEK) for decryption of the
EncryptedContent.

5.3.  Authenticated-Enveloped-Data Content Type

The fifth step of constructing an authenticated-enveloped-data content type is repeated below
from

Section 2 of [RFC5083]
:

5.

The attributes collected in step 4 are authenticated and the CMS content is
authenticated and encrypted with the content- authenticated-encryption key. If the
authenticated encryption algorithm requires either the additional authenticated
data (AAD) or the content to be padded to a multiple of some block size, then the
padding is added as described in Section 6.3 of [CMS].

Note that [CMS] refers to
text in Section 6.3 was unchanged in RFC 5652.

[RFC3852]

, which has been obsoleted by

[RFC5652]

, but the

To implement this mitigation, the originator expands this step as follows:

•

Include the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier in the
contentEncryptionAlgorithm.algorithm field of the EncryptedContentInfo structure, and set
the contentEncryptionAlgorithm.parameters field to the AlgorithmIdentifier for the content-

Housley

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9709

Encryption Key Derivation in CMS

January 2025

authenticated-encryption algorithm that will be used for authenticated encryption of the
content, including both the algorithm and optional parameters.

•

Derive the new content-authenticated-encryption key (CEK') from the original content-
authenticated-encryption key (CEK) and the ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier:

CEK' = CMS_CEK_HKDF_SHA256(CEK, ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier)

•

The attributes collected in step 4 are authenticated and the CMS content is authenticated and
encrypted with the new content-authenticated-encryption key (CEK'). If the authenticated
encryption algorithm requires either the additional authenticated data (AAD) or the content
to be padded to a multiple of some block size, then the padding is added as described in
Section 6.3 of [RFC5652]

.

The presence of the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier in the
contentEncryptionAlgorithm.algorithm field of the EncryptedContentInfo structure tells the
recipient to derive the new content-authenticated-encryption key (CEK') as shown above, and
then use it for authenticated decryption of the EncryptedContent and the authentication of the
AAD. If the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier is not present in the
contentEncryptionAlgorithm.algorithm field of the EncryptedContentInfo structure, then the
recipient uses the original content-authenticated-encryption (CEK) for decryption and
authentication of the EncryptedContent and the authentication of the AAD.

6.  Security Considerations

This mitigation always uses HKDF with SHA-256. One KDF algorithm was selected to avoid the
need for negotiation. In the future, if a weakness is found in the KDF algorithm, a new attribute
will need to be assigned for use with an alternative KDF algorithm.

If the attacker removes the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 object identifier from the
contentEncryptionAlgorithm.algorithm field of the EncryptedContentInfo structure prior to
delivery to the recipient, then the recipient will not attempt to derive CEK', which will deny the
recipient access to the content but will not assist the attacker in recovering the plaintext content.

If the attacker changes contentEncryptionAlgorithm.parameters field of the
EncryptedContentInfo structure prior to delivery to the recipient, then the recipient will derive a
different CEK', which will not assist the attacker in recovering the plaintext content. Providing
the object identifier as an input to the key derivation function is sufficient to mitigate the attack
described in
, but this mitigation includes both the object identifier and the parameters
to protect against some yet-to-be-discovered attack that only manipulates the parameters.

[RS2023]

MUST

 protect the content-encryption keys and content-authenticated-

Implementations
encryption keys, including the CEK and CEK'. Compromise of a content-encryption key may result
in disclosure of the associated encrypted content. Compromise of a content-authenticated-
encryption key may result in disclosure of the associated encrypted content or allow
modification of the authenticated content and the AAD.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9709

Encryption Key Derivation in CMS

January 2025

MUST

 randomly generate content-encryption keys and content-authenticated-

Implementations
encryption keys. Using an inadequate pseudorandom number generator (PRNG) to generate
cryptographic keys can result in little or no security. An attacker may find it much easier to
reproduce the PRNG environment that produced the keys and then search the resulting small set
of possibilities, rather than brute-force searching the whole key space. The generation of quality
random numbers is difficult.

 offers important guidance on this topic.

[RFC4086]

7.  Privacy Considerations

If the message-digest attribute is included in the AuthAttributes, then the attribute value will
contain the unencrypted one-way hash value of the plaintext of the content. Disclosure of this
hash value enables content tracking, and it can be used to determine if the content matches one
or more candidates. For these reasons, the AuthAttributes
digest attribute.

 contain the message-

SHOULD NOT

8.  Operational Considerations

CMS is often used to provide encryption in messaging environments, where various forms of
unsolicited messages (such as spam and phishing) represent a significant volume of unwanted
traffic. Mitigation strategies for unwanted message traffic involve analysis of plaintext message
content. When recipients accept unsolicited encrypted messages, they become even more
vulnerable to unwanted traffic since many mitigation strategies will be unable to access the
plaintext message content. Therefore, software that receives messages that have been encrypted
using CMS ought to provide alternate mechanisms to handle the unwanted message traffic. One
approach that does not require disclosure of keying material to a server is to reject or discard
encrypted messages unless they purport to come from a member of a previously approved
originator list.

9.  IANA Considerations

For the ASN.1 module in Appendix A of this document, IANA has assigned the following object
identifier (OID) in the "SMI Security for S/MIME Module Identifier (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)"
registry:

Decimal Description

References

80

id-mod-CMS-CEK-HKDF-SHA256-2023

RFC 9709

Table 1

IANA has allocated the id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 algorithm identifier as specified in Section 3 in the
"SMI Security for S/MIME Algorithms (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.3)" registry as follows:

Housley

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9709

Encryption Key Derivation in CMS

January 2025

Decimal Description

References

31

id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256

RFC 9709

Table 2

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[FIPS180]

[RFC2119]

[RFC5083]

[RFC5652]

[RFC5869]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8551]

[X680]

[X690]

National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) "Secure Hash Standard
(SHS)" FIPS PUB 180-4 DOI 10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4
nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf>

, August 2015,
.

<https://

,

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) Authenticated-Enveloped-
Data Content Type" RFC 5083 DOI 10.17487/RFC5083
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5083>

, November 2007,

,

,

.

<https://

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

Krawczyk, H.
Function (HKDF)" RFC 5869 DOI 10.17487/RFC5869
editor.org/info/rfc5869>

P. Eronen "HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation
 and
,

, May 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

,
,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Schaad, J. Ramsdell, B.
Extensions (S/MIME) Version 4.0 Message Specification" RFC 8551 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8551

S. Turner "Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8551>

, April 2019,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information technology -- Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):
Specification of basic notation" ITU-T Recommendation X.680 ISO/IEC
8824-1:2021

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.680>

, February 2021,

,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information technology -- ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690 ISO/IEC 8825-1-2021
February 2021,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.690>

,
.

,

,

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC3852]

Housley

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9709

Encryption Key Derivation in CMS

January 2025

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" RFC 3852 DOI 10.17487/
RFC3852

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3852>
.

, July 2004,

,

,

[RFC4086]

[RFC5084]

[RFC5911]

[RS2023]

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Schiller, J.
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, and
,

,

,

.

S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for

,

, June 2005,

<https://

,

Housley, R. "Using AES-CCM and AES-GCM Authenticated Encryption in the
Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" RFC 5084 DOI 10.17487/RFC5084
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5084>
November 2007,

,

,

.

J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for Cryptographic Message

 and

Hoffman, P.
Syntax (CMS) and S/MIME" RFC 5911 DOI 10.17487/RFC5911
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5911>

, June 2010,

.

,

,

,

<https://

Roth, J.
 and
Proceedings
materials/slides-118-lamps-attack-against-aead-in-cms>

F. Strenzke "AEAD-to-CBC Downgrade Attacks on CMS" IETF 118
, 8 November 2023,

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/118/

,

,

.

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Module

This ASN.1 module builds upon the conventions established in

[RFC5911]
.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9709

Encryption Key Derivation in CMS

January 2025

<CODE BEGINS>
CMS-CEK-HKDF-SHA256-Module-2023
  { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9)
    id-smime(16) id-mod(0) id-mod-CMS-CEK-HKDF-SHA256-2023(80) }

DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::= BEGIN

EXPORTS ALL;

IMPORTS
  AlgorithmIdentifier{}, CONTENT-ENCRYPTION, SMIME-CAPS
  FROM AlgorithmInformation-2009 -- in RFC 5911
    { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
      security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
      id-mod-algorithmInformation-02(58) } ;

--
-- CEK-HKDF-SHA256 Algorithm
--

id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1) member-body(2)
    us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9) id-smime(16) alg(3) 31 }

ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier ::=
    AlgorithmIdentifier{CONTENT-ENCRYPTION, { ... } }

cea-CEKHKDFSHA256 CONTENT-ENCRYPTION ::= {
    IDENTIFIER id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256
    PARAMS TYPE ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier ARE required
    SMIME-CAPS { IDENTIFIED BY id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 } }

--
-- S/MIME Capability for CEK-HKDF-SHA256 Algorithm
--

SMimeCaps SMIME-CAPS ::= { cap-CMSCEKHKDFSHA256, ... }

cap-CMSCEKHKDFSHA256 SMIME-CAPS ::=
    { -- No value -- IDENTIFIED BY id-alg-cek-hkdf-sha256 }

END

<CODE ENDS>

Appendix B.  CMS_CEK_HKDF_SHA256 Function Examples

This appendix provides two test vectors for the CMS_CEK_HKDF_SHA256 function.

B.1.  CMS_CEK_HKDF_SHA256 with AES-128-GCM

This test vector includes an AlgorithmIdentifier for AES-128-GCM.

Housley

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9709

Encryption Key Derivation in CMS

January 2025

IKM = c702e7d0a9e064b09ba55245fb733cf3

The AES-128-GCM AlgorithmIdentifier:
 algorithm=2.16.840.1.101.3.4.1.6
 parameters=GCMParameters:
  aes-nonce=0x5c79058ba2f43447639d29e2
  aes-ICVlen is omitted; it indicates the DEFAULT of 12

DER-encoded AlgorithmIdentifier:
  301b0609608648016503040106300e040c5c79058ba2f43447639d29e2

OKM = 2124ffb29fac4e0fbbc7d5d87492bff3

B.2.  CMS_CEK_HKDF_SHA256 with AES-128-CBC

This test vector uses includes an AlgorithmIdentifier for AES-128-CBC.

IKM = c702e7d0a9e064b09ba55245fb733cf3

The AES-128-CBC AlgorithmIdentifier:
 algorithm=2.16.840.1.101.3.4.1.2
 parameters=AES-IV=0x651f722ffd512c52fe072e507d72b377

DER-encoded AlgorithmIdentifier:
  301d06096086480165030401020410651f722ffd512c52fe072e507d72b377

OKM = 9cd102c52f1e19ece8729b35bfeceb50

Acknowledgements

Thanks to
comments.

Mike Ounsworth Carl Wallace

,

, and

Joe Mandel

 their careful review and constructive

Author's Address

Russ Housley
Vigil Security, LLC
Herndon VA
,
United States of America
Email:

housley@vigilsec.com

Housley

Standards Track

Page 13

