Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9039
Standards Track
June 2021
2070-1721
J. Arkko
Ericsson

C. Jennings
Cisco

Z. Shelby
Edge Impulse

RFC 9039
Uniform Resource Names for Device Identiﬁers

Abstract

This document describes a new Uniform Resource Name (URN) namespace for hardware device
identiﬁers. A general representation of device identity can be useful in many applications, such
as in sensor data streams and storage or in equipment inventories. A URN-based representation
can be passed along in applications that need the information.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9039

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  DEV URN Deﬁnition

3.1.  Purpose

3.2.  Syntax

3.2.1.  Character Case and URN-Equivalence

3.3.  Assignment

3.4.  Security and Privacy

3.5.  Interoperability

3.6.  Resolution

3.7.  Documentation

3.8.  Additional Information

3.9.  Revision Information

4.  DEV URN Subtypes

4.1.  MAC Addresses

4.2.  1-Wire Device Identiﬁers

4.3.  Organization-Deﬁned Identiﬁers

4.4.  Organization Serial Numbers

4.5.  Organization Product and Serial Numbers

4.6.  Future Subtypes

5.  Examples

6.  Security Considerations

6.1.  Privacy

6.2.  Validity

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document describes a new Uniform Resource Name (URN)
hardware device identiﬁers. A general representation of device identity can be useful in many
applications, such as in sensor data streams and storage or in equipment inventories
[RFC8428] [CoRE-RD]

 namespace for

[RFC8141]

[RFC7252]

.

A URN-based representation can be passed along in applications that need the information. It ﬁts
particularly well for protocols mechanisms that are designed to carry URNs
[RFC7230] [RFC7540]
. Finally, URNs can also be easily carried and stored in formats such as XML
[RFC3261] [RFC7252]
. Using URNs in these formats is
, or SenML
[W3C.REC-xml-19980210]
[RFC8428]
often preferable as they are universally recognized and self-describing and therefore avoid the
need to agree to interpret an octet string as a speciﬁc form of a Media Access Control (MAC)
address, for instance. Passing URNs may consume additional bytes compared to, for instance,
passing 4-byte binary IPv4 addresses, but the former oﬀers some ﬂexibility in return.

[RFC8259]

, JSON

[RFC6920]

This document deﬁnes identiﬁer URN types for situations where no such convenient type already
 deﬁnes International
exists. For instance,
Mobile station Equipment Identity (IMEI) identiﬁers for use with 3GPP cellular systems, and
 deﬁnes Mobile Equipment Identity (MEID) identiﬁers for use with 3GPP2 cellular
[RFC8464]
systems. Those URN types should be employed when such identiﬁers are transported; this
document does not redeﬁne these identiﬁers in any way.

 deﬁnes cryptographic identiﬁers,

[RFC7254]

Universally Unique Identiﬁer (UUID) URNs
[RFC4122]
device identiﬁers and already support MAC addresses as one type of identiﬁer. However, UUIDs
can be inconvenient in environments where it is important that the identiﬁers be as simple as
possible and where additional requirements on stable storage, real-time clocks, and identiﬁer
length can be prohibitive. Often, UUID-based identiﬁers are preferred for general purpose uses
instead of the MAC-based device URNs deﬁned in this document. The device URNs are
recommended for constrained environments.

 are another alternative way to represent

Future device identiﬁer types can extend the device URN type deﬁned in this document (see
Section 7), or they can deﬁne their own URNs.

Note that long-term stable unique identiﬁers are problematic for privacy reasons and should be
used with care as described in

[RFC7721]

.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

The rest of this document is organized as follows. Section 3 deﬁnes the "DEV" URN type, and
Section 4 deﬁnes subtypes for IEEE MAC-48, EUI-48 and EUI-64 addresses, and 1-Wire device
identiﬁers. Section 5 gives examples. Section 6 discusses the security and privacy considerations
of the new URN type. Finally, Section 7 speciﬁes the IANA registration for the new URN type and
sets requirements for subtype allocations within this type.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  DEV URN Deﬁnition

Namespace Identiﬁer:

"dev"

Version:

1

Date:

2020-06-24

Registrant:

IETF and the CORE Working Group. Should the working group cease to exist,
discussion should be directed to the Applications and Real-Time Area or general IETF
discussion forums, or the IESG.

3.1.  Purpose

The DEV URNs identify devices with device-speciﬁc identiﬁers such as network card hardware
addresses. DEV URNs are scoped to be globally applicable (see
) and, in
general, enable systems to use these identiﬁers from multiple sources in an interoperable
manner. Note that in some deployments, ensuring uniqueness requires care if manual or local
assignment mechanisms are used, as discussed in Section 3.3.

[RFC8141], Section 6.4.1

Some typical DEV URN applications include equipment inventories and smart object systems.

DEV URNs can be used in various ways in applications, software systems, and network
components, in tasks ranging from discovery (for instance, when discovering 1-Wire network
devices or detecting MAC-addressable devices on a LAN) to intrusion detection systems and
simple catalogues of system information.

While it is possible to implement resolution systems for speciﬁc applications or network
locations, DEV URNs are typically not used in a way that requires resolution beyond direct
observation of the relevant identiﬁer ﬁelds in local link communication. However, it is often
useful to be able to pass device identiﬁer information in generic URN ﬁelds in databases or
protocol ﬁelds, which makes the use of URNs for this purpose convenient.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

The DEV URN namespace complements existing namespaces such as those involving IMEI or
UUID identiﬁers. DEV URNs are expected to be a part of the IETF-provided basic URN types,
covering identiﬁers that have previously not been possible to use in URNs.

3.2.  Syntax

The identiﬁer is expressed in ASCII characters and has a hierarchical structure as follows:

devurn = "urn:dev:" body componentpart
body = macbody / owbody / orgbody / osbody / opsbody / otherbody
macbody = %s"mac:" hexstring
owbody = %s"ow:" hexstring
orgbody = %s"org:" posnumber "-" identifier *( ":" identifier )
osbody = %s"os:" posnumber "-" serial *( ":" identifier )
opsbody = %s"ops:" posnumber "-" product "-" serial
          *( ":" identifier )
otherbody = subtype ":" identifier *( ":" identifier )
subtype = LALPHA *(DIGIT / LALPHA)
identifier = 1*devunreserved
identifiernodash = 1*devunreservednodash
product = identifiernodash
serial = identifier
componentpart = *( "_" identifier )
devunreservednodash = ALPHA / DIGIT / "."
devunreserved = devunreservednodash / "-"
hexstring = 1*(hexdigit hexdigit)
hexdigit = DIGIT / "a" / "b" / "c" / "d" / "e" / "f"
posnumber = NZDIGIT *DIGIT
ALPHA =  %x41-5A / %x61-7A
LALPHA =  %x41-5A
NZDIGIT = %x31-39
DIGIT =  %x30-39

The above syntax is represented in Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF) as deﬁned in
[RFC5234]
[RFC5234]

 and
, exactly as deﬁned there.

. The syntax also copies the DIGIT and ALPHA rules originally deﬁned in

[RFC7405]

The device identiﬁer namespace includes ﬁve subtypes (see Section 4), and more may be deﬁned
in the future as speciﬁed in Section 7.

The optional underscore-separated components at the end of the DEV URN depict individual
aspects of a device. The speciﬁc strings and their semantics are up to the designers of the device
but could be used to refer to speciﬁc interfaces or functions within the device.

With the exception of the MAC address and 1-Wire DEV URNs, each DEV URN may also contain
optional colon-separated identiﬁers. These are provided for extensibility.

There are no special character encoding rules or considerations for conforming with the URN
syntax beyond those applicable for URNs in general
are carried (e.g., inside JSON
[RFC8428], Section 4.5.1

). Due to the SenML rules in
[RFC8428]
, it is not desirable to use percent-encoding in DEV URNs, and the

 or the context where these URNs

 or SenML

[RFC8259]

[RFC8141]

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

subtypes deﬁned in this speciﬁcation do not really beneﬁt from percent-encoding. However, this
speciﬁcation does not deviate from the general syntax of URNs or their processing and
normalization rules as speciﬁed in

.
[RFC8141]

[RFC3986]

 and

DEV URNs do not use r-, q-, or f-components as deﬁned in

.
[RFC8141]

Speciﬁc subtypes of DEV URNs may be validated through mechanisms discussed in Section 4.

The string representation of the device identiﬁer URN is fully compatible with the URN syntax.

3.2.1.  Character Case and URN-Equivalence

[RFC8141], Section 3.1

The DEV URN syntax allows both uppercase and lowercase characters. The URN-equivalence of
, i.e., two URNs are URN-equivalent if their
the DEV URNs is deﬁned per
assigned-name portions are octet-by-octet equal after applying case normalization to the URI
scheme ("urn") and namespace identiﬁer ("dev"). The rest of the DEV URN is compared in a case-
sensitive manner. It should be noted that URN-equivalence matching merely quickly shows that
two URNs are deﬁnitely the same for the purposes of caching and other similar uses. Two DEV
URNs may still refer to the same entity and may not be found to be URN-equivalent according to
the
Section 2.3
hexadecimal digits.

), and a MAC address could be represented either with uppercase or lowercase

 deﬁnition. For instance, in ABNF, strings are case insensitive (see

[RFC5234],

[RFC8141]

Character case is not otherwise signiﬁcant for the DEV URN subtypes deﬁned in this document.
However, future subtypes might include identiﬁers that use encodings such as base64, which
encodes strings in a larger variety of characters and might even encode binary data.

To facilitate equivalence checks, it is
 that implementations always use lowercase
letters where they have a choice in case, unless there is a reason otherwise. (Such a reason might
be, for instance, the use of a subtype that requires the use of both uppercase and lowercase
letters.)

RECOMMENDED

3.3.  Assignment

The process for identiﬁer assignment is dependent on the used subtype and is documented in the
speciﬁc subsection under Section 4.

Device identiﬁers are generally expected to identify a unique device, barring the accidental issue
of multiple devices with the same identiﬁers. In many cases, device identiﬁers can also be
changed by users or are sometimes assigned in an algorithmic or local fashion. Any potential
conﬂicts arising from such assignments are not something that the DEV URNs as such manage;
they simply are there to refer to a particular identiﬁer. And, of course, a single device may (and
often does) have multiple identiﬁers, e.g., identiﬁers associated with diﬀerent link technologies it
supports.

The DEV URN type
persistent (with some limits, as discussed above).

SHOULD

 only be used for hardware-based identiﬁers that are expected to be

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

3.4.  Security and Privacy

As discussed in Section 6, care must be taken in the use of device-identiﬁer-based identiﬁers due
to their nature as long-term identiﬁers that are not normally changeable. Leakage of these
identiﬁers outside systems where their use is justiﬁed should be controlled.

3.5.  Interoperability

There are no speciﬁc interoperability concerns.

3.6.  Resolution

The device identiﬁers are not expected to be globally resolvable. No identiﬁer resolution system
is expected. Systems may perform local matching of identiﬁers to previously seen identiﬁers or
conﬁgured information, however.

3.7.  Documentation

See RFC 9039.

3.8.  Additional Information

See Section 1 for a discussion of related namespaces.

3.9.  Revision Information

This is the ﬁrst version of this registration.

4.  DEV URN Subtypes

4.1.  MAC Addresses

DEV URNs of the "mac" subtype are based on the EUI-64 identiﬁer
device with a built-in 64-bit EUI-64. The EUI-64 is formed from 24 or 36 bits of organization
identiﬁer followed by 40 or 28 bits of device-speciﬁc extension identiﬁer assigned by that
organization.

[IEEE.EUI64]

 derived from a

In the DEV URN "mac" subtype, the hexstring is simply the full EUI-64 identiﬁer represented as a
hexadecimal string. It is always exactly 16 characters long.

MAC-48 and EUI-48 identiﬁers are also supported by the same DEV URN subtype. To convert a
MAC-48 address to an EUI-64 identiﬁer, the Organizationally Unique Identiﬁer (OUI) of the
MAC-48 address (the ﬁrst three octets) becomes the organization identiﬁer of the EUI-64 (the ﬁrst
three octets). The fourth and ﬁfth octets of the EUI are set to the ﬁxed value 0xﬀﬀ (hexadecimal).
The last three octets of the MAC-48 address become the last three octets of the EUI-64. The same
process is used to convert an EUI-48 identiﬁer, but the ﬁxed value 0xﬀfe is used instead.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

Identiﬁer assignment for all of these identiﬁers rests within the IEEE Registration Authority.

Note that where randomized MAC addresses are used, the resulting DEV URNs cannot be
expected to have uniqueness, as discussed in Section 3.3.

4.2.  1-Wire Device Identiﬁers

The 1-Wire system is a device communications bus system designed by Dallas Semiconductor
Corporation. (1-Wire is a registered trademark.) 1-Wire devices are identiﬁed by a 64-bit
identiﬁer that consists of an 8-bit family code, a 48-bit identiﬁer unique within a family, and an 8-
bit Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) code

[OW]

.

In DEV URNs with the "ow" subtype, the hexstring is a representation of the full 64-bit identiﬁer
as a hexadecimal string. It is always exactly 16 characters long. Note that the last two characters
represent the 8-bit CRC code. Implementations

 check the validity of this code.

MAY

Family code and identiﬁer assignment for all 1-Wire devices rests with the manufacturers.

4.3.  Organization-Deﬁned Identiﬁers

Device identiﬁers that have only a meaning within an organization can also be used to represent
vendor-speciﬁc or experimental identiﬁers or identiﬁers designed for use within the context of
an organization.

[RFC2578]
Organizations are identiﬁed by their Private Enterprise Number (PEN)
numbers can be obtained from IANA. Current PEN assignments can be viewed at
www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers/>
.
<https://pen.iana.org/pen/PenApplication.page>

. These
<https://
, and new assignments are requested at

Note that when included in an "org" DEV URN, the number cannot be zero or have leading
zeroes, as the ABNF requires the number to start with a non-zero digit.

4.4.  Organization Serial Numbers

The "os" subtype speciﬁes an organization and serial number. Organizations are identiﬁed by
their PEN. As with the organization-deﬁned identiﬁers (Section 4.3), PEN number assignments
are maintained by IANA, and assignments for new organizations can be made easily.

Historical note: The "os" subtype was originally deﬁned in the Open Mobile Alliance
"Lightweight Machine to Machine" standard
here to collect all syntaxes associated with DEV URNs in one place. At the same time,
the syntax of this subtype was changed to avoid the possibility of characters that are
not allowed in the SenML Name ﬁeld (see

 but has been incorporated

[RFC8428], Section 4.5.1

[LwM2M]

).

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

Organization serial number DEV URNs consist of the PEN number and the serial number. As with
other DEV URNs, for carrying additional information and extensibility, optional colon-separated
identiﬁers and underscore-separated components may also be included. The serial numbers
themselves are deﬁned by the organization, and this speciﬁcation does not specify how they are
allocated.

Organizations are also encouraged to select serial number formats that avoid the possibility of
ambiguity in the form of leading zeroes or otherwise.

4.5.  Organization Product and Serial Numbers

The DEV URN "ops" subtype was originally deﬁned in the LwM2M standard but has been
incorporated here to collect all syntaxes associated with DEV URNs in one place. The "ops"
subtype speciﬁes an organization, product class, and a serial number. Organizations are
identiﬁed by their PEN. Again, as with the organization-deﬁned identiﬁers (Section 4.3), PEN
number assignments are maintained by IANA.

Historical note: As with the "os" subtype, the "ops" subtype was originally deﬁned in
the Open Mobile Alliance "Lightweight Machine to Machine" standard

[LwM2M]
.

Organization product and serial number DEV URNs consist of the PEN number, product class,
and the serial number. As with other DEV URNs, for carrying additional information and
extensibility, optional colon-separated identiﬁers and underscore-separated components may
also be included. Both the product class and serial numbers themselves are deﬁned by the
organization, and this speciﬁcation does not specify how they are allocated.

Organizations are also encouraged to select product and serial number formats that avoid
possibility for ambiguity.

4.6.  Future Subtypes

Additional subtypes may be deﬁned in future speciﬁcations. See Section 7.

The DEV URN "example" subtype is reserved for use in examples. It has no speciﬁc requirements
beyond those expressed by the ABNF in Section 3.2.

5.  Examples

The following provides some examples of DEV URNs:

URN

Description

urn:dev:mac:0024beﬀﬀ804ﬀ1

The MAC-48 address of 0024be804ﬀ1,
converted to EUI-64 format

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9039

URN

urn:dev:mac:0024beﬀfe804ﬀ1

DEV URN

June 2021

Description

The EUI-48 address of 0024be804ﬀ1,
converted to EUI-64 format

urn:dev:mac:acde48234567019f

The EUI-64 address of acde48234567019f

urn:dev:ow:10e2073a01080063

A 1-Wire temperature sensor

urn:dev:ow:264437f5000000ed_humidity

The humidity part of a multi-sensor device

urn:dev:ow:264437f5000000ed_temperature

The temperature part of a multi-sensor device

urn:dev:org:32473-foo

urn:dev:os:32473-123456

An organization-speciﬁc URN in the example
organization 32473 in

[RFC5612]

Device 123456 in the example organization in
[RFC5612]

urn:dev:os:32473-12-34-56

A serial number with dashes in it

urn:dev:ops:32473-Refrigerator-5002

Refrigerator serial number 5002 in the
example organization in

[RFC5612]

urn:dev:example:new-1-2-3_comp

An example of something that is not deﬁned
today, and is not one of the mac, ow, os, or ops
subtypes

Table 1

The DEV URNs themselves can then appear in various contexts. A simple example of this is the
use of DEV URNs in SenML data. This example from
 shows a measurement from a 1-
Wire temperature gauge encoded in the JSON syntax:

[RFC8428]

   [
     {"n":"urn:dev:ow:10e2073a01080063","u":"Cel","v":23.1}
   ]

6.  Security Considerations

MUST

 preserve such limitations and behaviors associated with the device identiﬁers. In

On most devices, the user can display device identiﬁers. Depending on circumstances, device
identiﬁers may or may not be modiﬁed or tampered with by the user. An implementation of the
DEV URN
particular, a device identiﬁer that is intended to be immutable should not become mutable as a
part of implementing the DEV URN type. More generally, nothing in this document should be
construed to override what the relevant device speciﬁcations have already said about the
identiﬁers.

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

6.1.  Privacy

Other devices in the same network may or may not be able to identify the device. For instance,
on an Ethernet network, the MAC address of a device is visible to all other devices.

DEV URNs often represent long-term stable unique identiﬁers for devices. Such identiﬁers may
have privacy and security implications because they may enable correlating information about a
speciﬁc device over a long period of time, location tracking, and device-speciﬁc vulnerability
exploitation
Therefore, these identiﬁers need to be used with care, and special care should be taken to avoid
leaking identiﬁers outside of the system that is intended to use them.

. Also, in some systems, there is no easy way to change the identiﬁer.

[RFC7721]

6.2.  Validity

Information about identiﬁers may have signiﬁcant eﬀects in some applications. For instance, in
many sensor systems, the identiﬁer information is used for deciding how to use the data carried
in a measurement report. In some other systems, identiﬁers may be used in policy decisions.

It is important that systems be designed to take into account the possibility of devices reporting
incorrect identiﬁers (either accidentally or maliciously) and the manipulation of identiﬁers in
communications by illegitimate entities. Integrity protection of communications or data objects,
the use of trusted devices, and various management practices can help address these issues.

Similar to the advice in

[RFC4122], Section 6

: Do not assume that DEV URNs are hard to guess.

7.  IANA Considerations

Per this document, IANA has registered a new URN namespace for "dev", as described in Section
3.

IANA has created a "DEV URN Subtypes" registry under "Device Identiﬁcation". The initial values
in this registry are as follows:

Subtype Description

Reference

mac

MAC Addresses

RFC 9039, Section 4.1

ow

org

os

ops

1-Wire Device Identiﬁers

RFC 9039, Section 4.2

Organization-Deﬁned Identiﬁers

RFC 9039, Section 4.3

Organization Serial Numbers

RFC 9039, Section 4.4

Organization Product and Serial Numbers

RFC 9039, Section 4.5

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

Subtype Description

Reference

example

Reserved for examples

RFC 9039, Section 4.6

Table 2

Additional subtypes for DEV URNs can be deﬁned through Speciﬁcation Required or IESG
Approval
type of device identiﬁer that is deﬁned in a stable fashion and has a publicly available
speciﬁcation.

. These allocations are appropriate when there is a new namespace of some

[RFC8126]

Note that the organization (Section 4.3) device identiﬁers can also be used in some cases, at least
as a temporary measure. It is preferable, however, that long-term usage of a broadly employed
device identiﬁer be registered with IETF rather than used through the organization device
identiﬁer type.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[IEEE.EUI64]

[OW]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2578]

[RFC3986]

[RFC5234]

[RFC8126]

,

IEEE "Guidelines for Use of Extended Unique Identiﬁer (EUI), Organizationally
Unique Identiﬁer (OUI), and Company ID (CID)"
standards.ieee.org/content/dam/ieee-standards/standards/web/documents/
tutorials/eui.pdf>

, August 2017,

<https://

.

,

Maxim "Guide to 1-Wire Communication"
www.maximintegrated.com/en/design/technical-documents/
tutorials/1/1796.html>

, June 2008,

.

<https://

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

McCloghrie, K., Ed. Perkins, D., Ed.
Management Information Version 2 (SMIv2)" STD 58 RFC 2578 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2578

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2578>

J. Schoenwaelder, Ed. "Structure of

, April 1999,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

,

.

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):

, January 2005,

 and
Crocker, D., Ed.
,
,
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations:

, January 2008,

<https://

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

.

,

,

, June

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

[RFC8141]

[RFC8174]

Saint-Andre, P.
10.17487/RFC8141

 and

,
, April 2017,

J. Klensin "Uniform Resource Names (URNs)" RFC 8141 DOI

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8141>

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

8.2.  Informative References

[CoRE-RD]

[LwM2M]

[RFC3261]

[RFC4122]

[RFC5612]

[RFC6920]

[RFC7230]

[RFC7252]

[RFC7254]

,

Amsüss, C., Ed. Shelby, Z. Koster, M. Bormann, C.
,
Resource Directory" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-core-resource-
,
directory-28
resource-directory-28>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-core-

,
, 7 March 2021,

P. van der Stok "CoRE

, and

,

,

.

,
Alliance, O. M. "OMA Lightweight Machine to Machine Requirements" OMA
, January 2019,
Standard Candidate Version 1.2
www.openmobilealliance.org/release/LightweightM2M/V1_2-20190124-C/OMA-
RD-LightweightM2M-V1_2-20190124-C.pdf>

<https://

,

.

,

Rosenberg, J. Schulzrinne, H. Camarillo, G. Johnston, A. Peterson, J. Sparks, R.
, and
Handley, M.
10.17487/RFC3261

,
,
E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
, June 2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

,

, and
Leach, P. Mealling, M.
,
,
Namespace" RFC 4122 DOI 10.17487/RFC4122
editor.org/info/rfc4122>

,

.

R. Salz "A Universally Unique IDentiﬁer (UUID) URN

, July 2005,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Eronen, P.
,
5612 DOI 10.17487/RFC5612
rfc5612>

.

D. Harrington "Enterprise Number for Documentation Use" RFC

,
, August 2009,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Farrell, S. Kutscher, D. Dannewitz, C. Ohlman, B. Keranen, A.
Baker "Naming Things with Hashes" RFC 6920 DOI 10.17487/RFC6920
2013,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6920>

, and

,
,

,
.

,

,

P. Hallam-
, April

 and

Fielding, R., Ed.
,
Message Syntax and Routing" RFC 7230 DOI 10.17487/RFC7230
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7230>

J. Reschke, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
, June 2014,

,

,

.

,
Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,
Montemurro, M., Ed. Allen, A. McDonald, D.
Resource Name Namespace for the Global System for Mobile Communications
Association (GSMA) and the International Mobile station Equipment Identity
,
(IMEI)" RFC 7254 DOI 10.17487/RFC7254
info/rfc7254>

,
P. Gosden "A Uniform

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, May 2014,

, and

.

,

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

[RFC7405]

[RFC7540]

[RFC7721]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8428]

[RFC8464]

Kyzivat, P. "Case-Sensitive String Support in ABNF" RFC 7405 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7405

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7405>

, December 2014,

,

,

,

.

,

Belshe, M. Peon, R.
, and
2 (HTTP/2)" RFC 7540 DOI 10.17487/RFC7540
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc7540>

,

.

M. Thomson, Ed. "Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version

, May 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Cooper, A. Gont, F.
,
Address Generation Mechanisms" RFC 7721 DOI 10.17487/RFC7721
,
2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7721>

D. Thaler "Security and Privacy Considerations for IPv6

, March

, and

,

.

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

,

,
,
,
Jennings, C. Shelby, Z. Arkko, J. Keranen, A.
, August 2018,
,
Measurement Lists (SenML)" RFC 8428 DOI 10.17487/RFC8428
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8428>

C. Bormann "Sensor

, and

,

.

,

Atarius, R. "A URN Namespace for Device Identity and Mobile Equipment
,
Identity (MEID)" RFC 8464 DOI 10.17487/RFC8464
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8464>

, September 2018,

.

,

<https://

[W3C.REC-xml-19980210]

Sperberg-McQueen, C. Bray, T.

,

, and

J. Paoli "Extensible Markup

,

,
Language (XML) 1.0" W3C Recommendation
www.w3.org/TR/1998/REC-xml-19980210>

.

, February 1998,

<http://

Acknowledgments

,

,

,

,

Ari Keränen Stephen Farrell Christer Holmberg Peter Saint-
The authors would like to thank
,
Andre Wouter Cloetens Jaime Jimenez Joseph Knapp Padmakumar Subramani Mert Ocak
,
Hannes Tschofenig Jim Schaad Thomas Fossati Carsten Bormann Marco Tiloca Barry Leiba
,
Amanda Baber Juha Hakala Dale Worley Warren Kumari Benjamin Kaduk Brian Weis John
,
Klensin Dave Thaler Russ Housley Dan Romascanu Éric Vyncke Roman Danyliw
Muhanna
like to note prior documents that focused on speciﬁc device identiﬁers, such as
.
[RFC8464]

 for their feedback and interesting discussions in this problem space. We would also
 and

[RFC7254]

,
Ahmad

,
,
,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Jari Arkko
Ericsson
FI-
Finland
Email:

02420 Jorvas

 jari.arkko@piuha.net

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9039

DEV URN

June 2021

Cullen Jennings
Cisco
170 West Tasman Drive
San Jose CA 95134
,
United States of America
 +1 408 421-9990
Phone:
 ﬂuﬀy@iii.ca
Email:

Zach Shelby
Edge Impulse
3031 Tisch Way
San Jose CA 95128
,
United States of America
Email:

 zach@edgeimpulse.com

Arkko, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

