Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9005
Standards Track
March 2021
2070-1721

S. Litkowski
Cisco Systems, Inc.

S. Sivabalan
Ciena

J. Tantsura
Juniper Networks

J. Hardwick
Metaswitch Networks

李呈 C. Li
 (
华为技术有限公司 Huawei Technologies

 (

)

)

RFC 9005
Path Computation Element Communication Protocol
(PCEP) Extension for Associating Policies and Label
Switched Paths (LSPs)

Abstract

This document introduces a simple mechanism to associate policies with a group of Label
Switched Paths (LSPs) via an extension to the Path Computation Element Communication
Protocol (PCEP). The extension allows a PCEP speaker to advertise to a PCEP peer that a
particular LSP belongs to a particular Policy Association Group (PAG).

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9005

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Terminology

3.  Motivation

3.1.  Policy-Based Constraints

4.  Overview

5.  Policy Association Group

5.1.  POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  ASSOCIATION Object Type Indicators

7.2.  PCEP TLV Type Indicators

7.3.  PCEP Errors

8.  Manageability Considerations

8.1.  Control of Function and Policy

8.2.  Information and Data Models

8.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

8.4.  Verifying Correct Operations

8.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

8.6.  Impact on Network Operations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

Appendix A.  Example of Policy Parameters

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

 describes the Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP), which

[RFC5440]
enables the communication between a Path Computation Client (PCC) and a Path Control
Element (PCE) or between two PCEs based on the PCE architecture
 provides
.
[RFC4655] [RFC5394]
additional details on policy within the PCE architecture and also provides context for the support
of PCE policy.

) describes a set of extensions to PCEP to enable active control of Multiprotocol Label

"Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE"
(
[RFC8231]
Switching Traﬃc Engineering (MPLS-TE) and Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) tunnels.
describes the setup and teardown of PCE-initiated LSPs under the active stateful PCE model
without the need for local conﬁguration on the PCC, thus allowing for a dynamic network.
Currently, the LSPs can either be signaled via Resource Reservation Protocol Traﬃc Engineering
(RSVP-TE) or segment routed as speciﬁed in

[RFC8281]

[RFC8664]

.

 introduces a generic mechanism to create a grouping of LSPs that can then be used to

[RFC8697]
deﬁne associations between a set of LSPs and a set of attributes (such as conﬁguration
parameters or behaviors) and is equally applicable to stateful PCE (active and passive modes)
and stateless PCE.

This document speciﬁes a PCEP extension to associate one or more LSPs with policies using the
generic association mechanism.

A PCEP speaker may want to inﬂuence the PCEP peer with respect to path selection and other
policies. This document describes a PCEP extension to associate policies by creating a Policy
Association Group (PAG) and encoding this association in PCEP messages. The speciﬁcation is
applicable to both stateful and stateless PCEP sessions.

Note that the actual policy deﬁnition and the associated parameters are out of scope of this
document.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

2.  Terminology

The following terminology is used in this document.

Association parameters:

As described in

[RFC8697]

, the combination of the mandatory ﬁelds

Association Type, Association ID, and Association Source in the ASSOCIATION object uniquely
identiﬁes the association group. If the optional TLVs -- Global Association Source or Extended
Association ID -- are included, then they are included in combination with mandatory ﬁelds to
uniquely identify the association group.

Association information:

As described in

[RFC8697]

, the ASSOCIATION object could include

other optional TLVs based on the Association Types that provide "information" related to the
association.

LSR:

Label Switching Router

MPLS:

Multiprotocol Label Switching

PAG:

Policy Association Group

PAT:

Policy Association Type

PCC:

Path Computation Client; any client application requesting a path computation to be

performed by a Path Computation Element.

PCE:

Path Computation Element; an entity (component, application, or network node) that is

capable of computing a network path or route based on a network graph and applying
computational constraints.

PCEP:

Path Computation Element Communication Protocol

3.  Motivation

Paths computed using PCE can be subjected to various policies at both the PCE and the PCC. For
example, in a centralized TE scenario, network operators may instantiate LSPs and specify
policies for traﬃc accounting, path monitoring, telemetry, etc., for some LSPs via the stateful PCE.
Similarly, a PCC could request a user-speciﬁc or service-speciﬁc policy to be applied at the PCE,
such as a constraints relaxation policy, to meet optimal QoS and resiliency levels.

PCEP speakers can use the generic mechanism of
policy, without the need to know the details of such a policy. This simpliﬁes network operations,
avoids frequent software upgrades, and provides the ability to introduce new policies more
quickly.

 to associate a set of LSPs with a

[RFC8697]

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

                                                         PAG Y
                                          {Service-Specific Policy
                                                    for constraint
            Monitor LSP                                relaxation}
                 |                                          |
                 | PAG X                    PCReq/PCRpt     |
                 V {Monitor LSP}            {PAG Y}         V
              +-----+                   ----------------> +-----+
   _ _ _ _ _ _| PCE |                  |                  | PCE |
  |           +-----+                  |      ----------> +-----+
  | PCInitiate/PCUpd                   |     |    PCReq/PCRpt
  |{PAG X}                             |     |    {PAG Y}
  |                                    |     |
  |              .-----.               |     |         .-----.
  |             (       )              |  +----+      (       )
  |         .--(         )--.          |  |PCC1|--.--(         )--.
  V        (                 )         |  +----+ (                 )
+---+     (                   )        |        (                   )
|PCC|----(   (G)MPLS network    )   +----+     ( (G)MPLS network   )
+---+     (                   )     |PCC2|------(                   )
PAG X      (                 )      +----+       (                 )
{Monitor    '--(         )--'                     '--(         )--'
LSP}            (       )                             (       )
                 '-----'                               '-----'

Case 1: Policy requested by PCE        Case 2: Policy requested by
        and enforced by PCC                    PCC and enforced by
                                               PCE

Figure 1: Sample Use Cases for Carrying Policies over PCEP

3.1.  Policy-Based Constraints

In the context of a policy-enabled path computation framework
, path computation
policies may be applied at a PCC, a PCE, or both. A Label Switching Router (LSR) with a policy-
enabled PCC can receive:

[RFC5394]

•

A service request via signaling, including over a Network-Network Interface (NNI) or User-
Network Interface (UNI) reference point.

•

A conﬁguration request over a management interface to establish a service.

The PCC may apply user-speciﬁc or service-speciﬁc policies to decide how the path selection
process should be constrained -- that is, which constraints, diversities, optimization criteria, and
constraint-relaxation strategies should be applied to increase the likelihood that the service LSP
(s) will be successfully established and will provide the necessary QoS and resilience against
network failures. The user-speciﬁc or service-speciﬁc policies are applied to the PCC and are then
.
passed to the PCE along with the path computation request in the form of constraints

[RFC5394]

The PCEP speaker can use the generic mechanism as per
user-speciﬁc or service-speciﬁc policies. This would simplify the path computation message
exchanges in PCEP.

[RFC8697]

 to associate a set of LSPs with

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

4.  Overview

[RFC8697]

, LSPs are associated with other LSPs with which they interact by adding them

As per
to a common association group. Grouping can also be used to deﬁne the association between
LSPs and the policies associated with them. As described in
uniquely identiﬁed by the combination of the following ﬁelds in the ASSOCIATION object:
Association Type, Association ID, Association Source, and (if present) Global Association Source
or Extended Association ID. This document deﬁnes a new Association Type called "Policy
Association" with value 3 based on the generic ASSOCIATION object. This new Association Type is
called "Policy Association Type" (PAT).

, the association group is

[RFC8697]

 speciﬁes the mechanism for the capability advertisement of the Association Types

[RFC8697]
supported by a PCEP speaker by deﬁning an ASSOC-Type-List TLV to be carried within an OPEN
object. This capability exchange for the PAT
MUST
Thus, the PCEP speaker
same from the PCEP peer before using the PAG in PCEP messages.

 include the PAT in the ASSOC-Type-List TLV and

 be done before using the Policy Association.

 receive the

MUST

MUST

The Policy Association Type (3) is operator conﬁgured (as speciﬁed in
association is created by the operator manually on the PCEP peers, and an LSP belonging to this
association is conveyed via PCEP messages to the PCEP peer. There is no need to convey an
explicit Operator-conﬁgured Association Range, which could only serve to artiﬁcially limit the
available Association IDs. Thus, for the Policy Association Type, the Operator-conﬁgured
Association Range

 be ignored if received.

 be set and

[RFC8697]

MUST NOT

), i.e., the

MUST

A PAG can have one or more LSPs. The association parameters including Association Identiﬁer,
Policy Association Type (PAT), as well as the Association Source IP address are manually
conﬁgured by the operator and are used to identify the PAG as described in
Global Association Source and Extended Association ID

 also be included.

[RFC8697]

. The

MAY

Section 6.4 of [RFC8697]

As per the processing rules speciﬁed in
support this Policy Association Type, it would return a PCEP error (PCErr) message with Error-
Type 26 "Association Error" and Error-value 1 "Association type is not supported". The PAG and
the policy
procedures. All further processing is as per
PAG in a PCEP message and the Policy Association information is not conﬁgured, it
 return a
PCErr message with Error-Type 26 "Association Error" and Error-value 4 "Association unknown".

 be conﬁgured on the PCEP peers as per the operator-conﬁgured association

. If a PCE speaker receives a

, if a PCEP speaker does not

Section 6.4 of [RFC8697]

MUST

MUST

Associating a particular LSP with multiple policy groups is allowed from a protocol perspective;
however, there is no assurance that the PCEP speaker will be able to apply multiple policies. If a
PCEP speaker does not support handling of multiple policies for an LSP, it
 add the LSP
into the association group and
Error-value 7 "Cannot join the association group".

 return a PCErr with Error-Type 26 "Association Error" and

MUST NOT

MUST

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

5.  Policy Association Group

Association groups and their memberships are deﬁned using the ASSOCIATION object deﬁned in
[RFC8697]
"Association type" indicating the type of the association group. This document adds a new
Association Type, Policy Association Type (PAT).

. Two object types for IPv4 and IPv6 are deﬁned. The ASSOCIATION object includes

PAG may carry optional TLVs including but not limited to:

POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV:

Used to communicate opaque information useful to applying the policy, described in Section
5.1.

VENDOR-INFORMATION-TLV:

Used to communicate arbitrary vendor-speciﬁc behavioral information, described in
[RFC7470]

.

5.1.  POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV

The ASSOCIATION object (for PAT) can carry an optional POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV with opaque
information that is needed to apply the policy at the PCEP peer. In some cases, to apply a PCE
policy successfully, it is required to also associate some policy parameters that need to be
evaluated. This TLV is used to carry those policy parameters. The TLV could include one or more
policy-related parameters. The encoding format and the order
 be known to the PCEP peers;
this could be done during the conﬁguration of the policy (and its association parameters) for the
PAG. The TLV format is as per the format of the PCEP TLVs, as deﬁned in
Figure 2. Only one POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV can be carried, and only the ﬁrst occurrence is
processed. Any others

 and shown in

 be ignored.

[RFC5440]

MUST

MUST

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |         Type=48               |          Length               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                                                               |
   //                     Policy Parameters                       //
   |                                                               |
   +---------------------------------------------------------------+

Figure 2: The POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV Format

The POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV type is 48, and it has a variable length. The Value ﬁeld is variable
and padded to a 4-byte alignment; padding is not included in the Length ﬁeld. The PCEP peer
implementation needs to be aware of the encoding format, order, and meaning of the policy
parameters well in advance based on the policy. Note that from the protocol point of view, this

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

data is opaque and can be used to carry parameters in any format understood by the PCEP peers
and associated with the policy. The exact use of this TLV is beyond the scope of this document.
Examples are included for illustration purposes in Appendix A.

MUST

If the PCEP peer is unaware of the policy parameters associated with the policy and it receives
the POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV, it
 reject the PCEP message and send a PCErr message with
Error-Type 26 "Association Error" and Error-value 12 "Not expecting policy parameters". Further,
if at least one parameter in the POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV received by the PCEP speaker is
considered unacceptable in the context of the associated policy (e.g., out of range value, badly
encoded value, etc.), the PCEP speaker
with Error-Type 26 "Association Error" and Error-value 13 "Unacceptable policy parameters".

 reject the PCEP message and send a PCErr message

MUST

Note that the vendor-speciﬁc behavioral information is encoded in the VENDOR-INFORMATION-
TLV, which can be used along with this TLV.

6.  Security Considerations

,

,

, and

[RFC8697]

[RFC5440]

. Further, as described in

[RFC8697] [RFC8231] [RFC5394]

The security considerations described in
to the extensions described in this document as well. In particular, a malicious PCEP speaker
could be spoofed and used as an attack vector by creating spurious Policy Associations as
described in
are inconsistent with those of the legitimate LSPs of the group and, thus, cause problems in the
handling of the policy for the legitimate LSPs. It should be noted that Policy Association could
provide an adversary with the opportunity to eavesdrop on the relationship between the LSPs.
 suggests that the implementations and operators use indirect values as a way to hide
[RFC8697]
any sensitive business relationships. Thus, securing the PCEP session using Transport Layer
Security (TLS)
[RFC7525]

, as per the recommendations and best current practices in BCP 195

, a spurious LSP can have policies that

RECOMMENDED

[RFC8253]

[RFC8697]

 apply

, is

.

Further, extra care needs to be taken by the implementation with respect to the POLICY-
PARAMETERS-TLV while decoding, verifying, and applying these policy variables. This TLV
parsing could be exploited by an attacker; thus, extra care must be taken while conﬁguring a
Policy Association that uses the POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV and making sure that the data is easy
to parse and verify before use. Ensuring agreement among all relevant PCEP peers as to the
format and layout of the policy parameters information is key for correct operations. Note that
the parser for POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV is particularly sensitive since it is opaque to PCEP and
can be used to convey data with many diﬀerent internal structures/formats. The choice of
decoder is dependent on the additional metadata associated with the policy; thus, additional risk
of using a wrong decoder and getting garbage results is incurred. Using standard and well-
known policy formats could help alleviate those risks.

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  ASSOCIATION Object Type Indicators

This document deﬁnes a new Association Type in the subregistry "ASSOCIATION Type Field" of
the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry that was originally deﬁned in
[RFC8697]
.

Value Name

Reference

3

Policy Association

RFC 9005

Table 1

7.2.  PCEP TLV Type Indicators

The following TLV Type Indicator value has been registered within the "PCEP TLV Type
Indicators" subregistry of the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry.

Value Description

Reference

48

POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV

RFC 9005

Table 2

7.3.  PCEP Errors

This document deﬁnes new Error-values for Error-Type 26 "Association Error" deﬁned in
[RFC8697]
Values" subregistry of the "Path Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) Numbers" registry as
follows:

. IANA has allocated new error values within the "PCEP-ERROR Object Error Types and

Error-Type Meaning

Error-value

26

Association Error

Reference

[RFC8697]

12: Not expecting policy parameters

RFC 9005

13: Unacceptable policy parameters

RFC 9005

Table 3

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

8.  Manageability Considerations

8.1.  Control of Function and Policy

MUST

An operator
them with the LSPs. They
 also allow conﬁguration to related policy parameters and provide
information on the encoding format and order to parse the associated POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV.

 be allowed to conﬁgure the Policy Associations at PCEP peers and associate

MAY

8.2.  Information and Data Models

[RFC7420]

 describes the PCEP MIB; there are no new MIB objects for this document.

The PCEP YANG module is deﬁned in
deﬁned in

[RFC8697]

; thus, it supports the Policy Association Groups.

[PCE-PCEP-YANG]

. That module supports associations as

An implementation
implementation
set of LSPs in the PAG.

SHOULD

 allow the operator to view the PAG conﬁgured. Further

SHOULD

 allow one to view associations reported by each peer and the current

8.3.  Liveness Detection and Monitoring

The mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new liveness detection and
.
monitoring requirements in addition to those already listed in
[RFC8231]

[RFC5440]

 and

8.4.  Verifying Correct Operations

Verifying the correct operation of a policy can be performed by monitoring various parameters
as described in
 provide information
on failed path computation due to applying policy and log error events, e.g., parsing failure for a
POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV.

. A PCEP implementation

[RFC8231]

[RFC5440]

SHOULD

 and

8.5.  Requirements on Other Protocols

The mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not imply any new requirements on other
protocols.

8.6.  Impact on Network Operations

The mechanisms deﬁned in this document do not have any impact on network operations in
addition to those already listed in

,
[RFC5440] [RFC8231]

[RFC8281]

, and

.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

[RFC5440]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8231]

[RFC8253]

[RFC8697]

 and

Vasseur, JP., Ed.
,
Communication Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 5440 DOI 10.17487/RFC5440
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5440>

JL. Le Roux, Ed. "Path Computation Element (PCE)

,

,

.

, March 2009,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Medved, J.
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Stateful PCE" RFC 8231 DOI
10.17487/RFC8231

R. Varga "Path Computation Element

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8231>

, September 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Lopez, D. Gonzalez de Dios, O. Wu, Q.
Provide a Secure Transport for the Path Computation Element Communication
,
Protocol (PCEP)" RFC 8253 DOI 10.17487/RFC8253
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8253>

D. Dhody "PCEPS: Usage of TLS to

, October 2017,

<https://

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,
,

,
Minei, I. Crabbe, E. Sivabalan, S. Ananthakrishnan, H. Dhody, D.
Tanaka "Path Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions
for Establishing Relationships between Sets of Label Switched Paths (LSPs)" RFC
,
8697 DOI 10.17487/RFC8697
rfc8697>

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2020,

, and

Y.

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[PCE-PCEP-YANG]

Dhody, D., Ed. Hardwick, J. Beeram, V.

,

,

, and

J. Tantsura "A YANG Data Model

,

for Path Computation Element Communications Protocol (PCEP)" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-16
tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-pce-pcep-yang-16>

, 22 February 2021,

,

,

.

<https://

[RFC4655]

[RFC5394]

[RFC5905]

,

Farrel, A. Vasseur, J.-P.
,
Architecture" RFC 4655 DOI 10.17487/RFC4655
.
editor.org/info/rfc4655>

, and

,

,

J. Ash "A Path Computation Element (PCE)-Based

, August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,
Bryskin, I. Papadimitriou, D. Berger, L.
Computation Framework" RFC 5394 DOI 10.17487/RFC5394
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5394>

, and

,

,

,

.

J. Ash "Policy-Enabled Path

, December 2008,

,

, and
Mills, D. Martin, J., Ed. Burbank, J.
W. Kasch "Network Time Protocol
Version 4: Protocol and Algorithms Speciﬁcation" RFC 5905 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5905

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5905>

, June 2010,

,
,

,

,

.

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

[RFC7420]

[RFC7470]

[RFC7525]

[RFC8281]

[RFC8664]

,

,

J. Hardwick "Path Computation
Koushik, A. Stephan, E. Zhao, Q. King, D.
Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Management Information Base (MIB)
Module" RFC 7420 DOI 10.17487/RFC7420
editor.org/info/rfc7420>

, December 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,

,

,

,

.

 and

A. Farrel "Conveying Vendor-Speciﬁc Constraints in the Path

Zhang, F.
Computation Element Communication Protocol" RFC 7470 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7470

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7470>

, March 2015,

,

,

,

.

,

, and

P. Saint-Andre "Recommendations for Secure Use of

Sheﬀer, Y. Holz, R.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 7525 DOI 10.17487/RFC7525
editor.org/info/rfc7525>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2015,

.

,

,

,

,

,

Crabbe, E. Minei, I. Sivabalan, S.
R. Varga "Path Computation Element
Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for PCE-Initiated LSP Setup in a
Stateful PCE Model" RFC 8281 DOI 10.17487/RFC8281
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8281>

, December 2017,

, and

,

,

,

.

<https://

,

,

Sivabalan, S. Filsﬁls, C. Tantsura, J. Henderickx, W.
Computation Element Communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions for Segment
Routing" RFC 8664 DOI 10.17487/RFC8664
editor.org/info/rfc8664>

J. Hardwick "Path

, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,

,

.

,

,

Appendix A.  Example of Policy Parameters

An example could be a monitoring and telemetry policy, P1, that is dependent on a proﬁle
(GOLD/SILVER/BRONZE) as set by the operator. The PCEP peers need to be aware of policy P1
(and its associated characteristics) in advance as well the fact that the policy parameter will
encode the proﬁle of a type string in the POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV. As an example, LSP1 could
encode the PAG with the POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV using the string "GOLD".

The following is another example where the path computation at the PCE could be dependent on
when the LSP was conﬁgured at the PCC. For such a policy, P2, the timestamp can be encoded in
the POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV, and the exact encoding could be the 64-bit timestamp format as
deﬁned in

[RFC5905]

.

While the above example has a single ﬁeld in the POLICY-PARAMETERS-TLV, it is possible to
include multiple ﬁelds, but the exact order, encoding format, and meanings need to be known in
advance at the PCEP peers.

Acknowledgments

We would like to acknowledge and thank
,
, and
Lopez Rob Shakir
motivation.

Clarence Filsﬁls

Santiago Alvarez Zafar Ali Luis Tomotaki Victor

,

,

,

 for working on earlier draft versions with similar

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

[RFC8697]
Special thanks to the authors of
Aijun Wang Peng Shuping
,
would like to thank

. This document borrowed some of its text. The authors

, and

Gyan Mishra

 for their useful comments.

Thanks to
Brungard

Hariharan Ananthakrishnan
 for providing comments and being the responsible AD for this document.

 for shepherding this document. Thanks to

Deborah

Thanks to

Nic Leymann

 for the RTGDIR review.

Thanks to

Benjamin Kaduk

 and

Murray Kucherawy

 for their comments during the IESG review.

Contributors

The following individuals have contributed extensively:

Mahendra Singh Negi
RtBrick Inc
N-17L, 18th Cross Rd, HSR Layout
Bangalore 560102
Karnataka
India
Email:

 mahend.ietf@gmail.com

Dhruv Dhody
Huawei Technologies
Divyashree Techno Park, Whiteﬁeld
Bangalore 560066
Karnataka
India
Email:

 dhruv.ietf@gmail.com

The following individuals have contributed text that was incorporated:

Qin Wu
Huawei Technologies
101 Software Avenue, Yuhua District
Nanjing
Jiangsu 210012
,
China
Email:

 sunseawq@huawei.com

Xian Zhang
Huawei Technologies
Bantian, Longgang District
Shenzhen
518129
China
Email:

 zhang.xian@huawei.com

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

Udayasree Palle
Email:

 udayasreereddy@gmail.com

Mike Koldychev
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Canada
Email:

 mkoldych@cisco.com

Authors' Addresses

Stephane Litkowski
Cisco Systems, Inc.
11 Rue Camille Desmoulins
92130 Issy-les-Moulineaux
France
Email:

 slitkows@cisco.com

Siva Sivabalan
Ciena
385 Terry Fox Drive
Kanata Ontario K2K 0L1
Canada
Email:

 msiva282@gmail.com

Jeﬀ Tantsura
Juniper Networks
Email:

 jeﬀtant.ietf@gmail.com

Jonathan Hardwick
Metaswitch Networks
33 Genotin Road
Enﬁeld
United Kingdom
Email:

 Jonathan.Hardwick@metaswitch.com

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9005

PCEP Extensions for Policy Association

March 2021

Cheng Li
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Campus, No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

 c.l@huawei.com

Additional contact information:

李呈
中国
100095
 北京
华为北研所
华为技术有限公司

Litkowski, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

