Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9352
7370
Standards Track
February 2023
2070-1721
P. Psenak,
 Ed.
Cisco Systems

C. Filsfils
Cisco Systems

A. Bashandy
Cisco Systems

B. Decraene
Orange

Z. Hu
Huawei Technologies

RFC 9352
IS-IS Extensions to Support Segment Routing over
the IPv6 Data Plane

Abstract

The Segment Routing (SR) architecture allows a flexible definition of the end-to-end path by
encoding it as a sequence of topological elements called "segments". It can be implemented over
the MPLS or the IPv6 data plane. This document describes the IS-IS extensions required to
support SR over the IPv6 data plane.

This document updates RFC 7370 by modifying an existing registry.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9352
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV

3.  Advertising Supported Algorithms

4.  Advertising Maximum SRv6 SID Depths

4.1.  Maximum Segments Left MSD Type

4.2.  Maximum End Pop MSD Type

4.3.  Maximum H.Encaps MSD Type

4.4.  Maximum End D MSD Type

5.  SRv6 SIDs and Reachability

6.  Advertising Anycast Property

7.  Advertising Locators and End SIDs

7.1.  SRv6 Locator TLV Format

7.2.  SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV

8.  Advertising SRv6 Adjacency SIDs

8.1.  SRv6 End.X SID Sub-TLV

8.2.  SRv6 LAN End.X SID Sub-TLV

9.  SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV

10. Advertising Endpoint Behaviors

11. IANA Considerations

11.1.  SRv6 Locator TLV

11.1.1.  SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV

11.1.2.  IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability Registry

11.2.  SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

11.3.  IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for the SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Registry

11.4.  SRv6 End.X SID and SRv6 LAN End.X SID Sub-TLVs

11.5.  MSD Types

11.6.  IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID Sub-TLVs Registry

11.7.  Prefix Attribute Flags Sub-TLV

11.8.  IS-IS SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Flags Registry

11.9.  IS-IS SRv6 Locator TLV Flags Registry

11.10. IS-IS SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV Flags Registry

11.11. IS-IS SRv6 Adjacency SID Sub-TLVs Flags Registry

12. Security Considerations

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

With Segment Routing (SR)
instructions, which are called segments.

[RFC8402]

, a node steers a packet through an ordered list of

Segments are identified through Segment Identifiers (SIDs).

SR can be directly instantiated on the IPv6 data plane through the use of the Segment Routing
. SRv6 refers to this SR instantiation on the IPv6 data plane.
Header (SRH) defined in

[RFC8754]

 is central to SRv6. It describes how any behavior
The network programming paradigm
can be bound to a SID and how any network program can be expressed as a combination of SIDs.

[RFC8986]

This document specifies IS-IS extensions that allow the IS-IS protocol to encode some of these
SIDs and their behaviors.

Familiarity with the network programming paradigm
extensions specified in this document.

[RFC8986]

 is necessary to understand the

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

The new SRv6 Locator top-level TLV announces SRv6 Locators -- a form of summary address for
the set of topology-/algorithm-specific SIDs instantiated at the node.

The SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV announces the ability to support SRv6.

Several new sub-TLVs are defined to advertise various SRv6 Maximum SID Depths (MSDs).

The SRv6 End SID sub-TLV, the SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLV, and the SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLV are
used to advertise which SIDs are instantiated at a node and what Endpoint behavior is bound to
each instantiated SID.

This document updates

[RFC7370]

 by modifying an existing registry (Section 11.1.2).

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV

A node indicates that it supports the SR Segment Endpoint Node functionality as specified in
[RFC8754]
 by advertising a new SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV of the Router Capability TLV
[RFC7981]
.

The SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV may contain optional sub-sub-TLVs. No sub-sub-TLVs are currently
defined.

The SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type        |     Length    |            Flags              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   optional sub-sub-TLVs...

Type:

25. Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of

[ISO10589]

.

Length:

Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of

[ISO10589]

. The length value is 2 + length of sub-

sub-TLVs.

Flags:

2 octets. The following flags are defined:

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

 0                   1
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| |O|       Reserved            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

O-flag:

If set, the router supports use of the O-bit in the SRH, as defined in

[RFC9259]
.

The remaining bits, including bit 0, are reserved for future use. They
zero on transmission and

 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

MUST

 be set to

3.  Advertising Supported Algorithms

An SRv6-capable router indicates one or more supported algorithms by advertising the Segment
Routing Algorithm sub-TLV, as defined in

[RFC8667]
.

4.  Advertising Maximum SRv6 SID Depths

[RFC8491]
Node MSDs are advertised in a sub-TLV of the Router Capability TLV
advertised in a sub-TLV of TLVs 22, 23, 25, 141, 222, and 223.

 defines the means to advertise node-/link-specific values for MSDs of various types.
. Link MSDs are

[RFC7981]

This document defines the relevant SRv6 MSDs and requests MSD type assignments in the "IGP
MSD-Types" registry created by

[RFC8491]
.

4.1.  Maximum Segments Left MSD Type

The Maximum Segments Left MSD Type signals the maximum value of the "Segments Left" field
[RFC8754]
 in the SRH of a received packet before applying the Endpoint behavior associated with
a SID.

SRH Max Segments Left Type: 41

If no value is advertised, the supported value is 0.

4.2.  Maximum End Pop MSD Type

The Maximum End Pop MSD Type signals the maximum number of SIDs in the SRH to which the
router can apply "Penultimate Segment Pop (PSP) of the SRH" or "Ultimate Segment Pop (USP) of
the SRH" behavior, as defined in "Flavors" (

Section 4.16 of [RFC8986]

).

SRH Max End Pop Type: 42

If the advertised value is zero or no value is advertised, then the router cannot apply PSP or
USP flavors.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

4.3.  Maximum H.Encaps MSD Type

The Maximum H.Encaps MSD Type signals the maximum number of SIDs that can be added to
the segment list of an SRH as part of the "H.Encaps" behavior, as defined in

[RFC8986]
.

SRH Max H.encaps Type: 44

If the advertised value is zero or no value is advertised, then the headend can apply an SR
Policy that only contains one segment without inserting any SRH header.

A non-zero SRH Max H.encaps MSD indicates that the headend can insert an SRH up to the
advertised number of SIDs.

4.4.  Maximum End D MSD Type

The Maximum End D MSD Type specifies the maximum number of SIDs present in an SRH when
[RFC8986]
performing decapsulation. As specified in
, the permitted SID types include, but are not
limited to, End.DX6, End.DT4, End.DT46, End with USD, and End.X with USD.

SRH Max End D Type: 45

If the advertised value is zero or no value is advertised, then the router cannot apply any
behavior that results in decapsulation and forwarding of the inner packet if the outer IPv6
header contains an SRH.

5.  SRv6 SIDs and Reachability

As discussed in
function, and argument parts.

[RFC8986]

, an SRv6 Segment Identifier (SID) is 128 bits and consists of locator,

A node is provisioned with topology-/algorithm-specific locators for each of the topology/
algorithm pairs supported by that node. Each locator is a covering prefix for all SIDs provisioned
on that node that have the matching topology/algorithm.

MUST

 be advertised in the SRv6 Locator TLV (see Section 7.1). Forwarding entries for the

Locators
locators advertised in the SRv6 Locator TLV
receiving SRv6-capable routers when the associated topology/algorithm is supported by the
receiving node. The processing of the prefix advertised in the SRv6 Locator TLV, the calculation
of its reachability, and the installation in the forwarding plane follows the process defined for the
Prefix Reachability TLV 236

 be installed in the forwarding plane of

 or TLV 237

[RFC5120]
.

[RFC5308]

MUST

Locators associated with algorithms 0 and 1 (for all supported topologies)
advertised in a Prefix Reachability TLV (236 or 237) so that legacy routers (i.e., routers that do not
support SRv6) will install a forwarding entry for algorithms 0 and 1 SRv6 traffic.

 also be

SHOULD

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

In cases where the same prefix with the same prefix length, Multi-Topology Identifier (MTID),
and algorithm is received in both a Prefix Reachability TLV and an SRv6 Locator TLV, the Prefix
Reachability advertisement
 be preferred when installing entries in the forwarding plane.
This is to prevent inconsistent forwarding entries between SRv6-capable and SRv6-incapable
routers. Such preference of Prefix Reachability advertisement does not have any impact on the
rest of the data advertised in the SRv6 Locator TLV.

MUST

Locators associated with Flexible Algorithms (see
advertised in Prefix Reachability TLVs (236 or 237). Advertising the Flexible Algorithm locator in
a regular Prefix Reachability TLV (236 or 237) would make the forwarding for it follow the
algorithm 0 path.

Section 4 of [RFC9350] SHOULD NOT

 be

)

SRv6 SIDs are advertised as sub-TLVs in the SRv6 Locator TLV, except for SRv6 SIDs that are
associated with a specific neighbor/link and are therefore advertised as sub-TLVs in TLVs 22, 23,
25, 141, 222, and 223.

SRv6 SIDs received from other nodes are not directly routable and
forwarding plane. Reachability to SRv6 SIDs depends upon the existence of a covering locator.

 be installed in the

MUST NOT

Adherence to the rules defined in this section will ensure that SRv6 SIDs associated with a
supported topology/algorithm pair will be forwarded correctly, while SRv6 SIDs associated with
an unsupported topology/algorithm pair will be dropped. NOTE: The drop behavior depends on
the absence of a default/summary route covering a given locator.

In order for forwarding to work correctly, the locator associated with SRv6 SID advertisements
must be the longest match prefix installed in the forwarding plane for those SIDs. In order to
ensure correct forwarding, network operators should take steps to make sure that this
requirement is not compromised. For example, the following situations should be avoided:

•

Another locator associated with a different topology/algorithm is the longest match.

•

Another prefix advertisement (i.e., from TLV 236 or 237) is the longest match.

6.  Advertising Anycast Property

Both prefixes and SRv6 Locators may be configured as anycast; as such, the same value can be
advertised by multiple routers. It is useful for other routers to know that the advertisement is for
an anycast identifier.

A new flag in the Prefix Attribute Flags sub-TLV
property:

[RFC7794]

 is defined to advertise the anycast

Bit #:
Name:

4

Anycast Flag (A-flag)

When the prefix/SRv6 Locator is configured as anycast, the A-flag
flag

 be clear.

MUST

SHOULD

 be set. Otherwise, this

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

The A-flag

MUST

 be preserved when the advertisement is leaked between levels.

The A-flag and the N-flag
prefix/SRv6 Locator advertisement, the receiving routers

MUST NOT

 both be set. If both the N-flag and the A-flag are set in the

MUST

 ignore the N-flag.

The same prefix/SRv6 Locator can be advertised by multiple routers. If at least one of them sets
the A-flag in its advertisement, the prefix/SRv6 Locator

 be considered as anycast.

SHOULD

A prefix/SRv6 Locator that is advertised by a single node and without an A-flag
considered node specific.

MUST

 be

All the nodes advertising the same anycast locator
under that anycast locator. Failure to do so may result in traffic being dropped or misrouted.

 instantiate the exact same set of SIDs

MUST

SHOULD

The Prefix Attribute Flags sub-TLV can be carried in the SRv6 Locator TLV as well as the Prefix
Reachability TLVs. When a router originates both the Prefix Reachability TLV and the SRv6
Locator TLV for a given prefix, it
both TLVs and use the same flags. However, unlike TLVs 236
flag in the Prefix Attributes Flags sub-TLV is valid when sent in the SRv6 Locator TLV. When
included in the Locator TLV, the state of the X-flag in the Prefix Attributes Flags sub-TLV
match the setting of the embedded "X-bit" in any advertisement for the same prefix in TLVs 236
[RFC5308]
advertised in the Locator TLV and in the Prefix Reachability TLV, the ones advertised in the
Prefix Reachability TLV

 advertise the Prefix Attribute Flags sub-TLV, if used, in
, the X-

. In case of any inconsistency between the Prefix Attribute Flags

 be preferred.

[RFC5308]

[RFC5120]

[RFC5120]

 and 237

 and 237

MUST

MUST

7.  Advertising Locators and End SIDs

The SRv6 Locator TLV is introduced to advertise SRv6 Locators and End SIDs associated with
each locator.

This new TLV shares the sub-TLV space defined for TLVs 135, 235, 236, and 237.

7.1.  SRv6 Locator TLV Format

The SRv6 Locator TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type        |     Length    |R|R|R|R|    MTID               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                   Locator Entries . . .                       |

Type:

27. Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of

[ISO10589]

.

Length:

Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of

[ISO10589]

. The length value is variable.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9352

R Bits:

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

Reserved for future use. They

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored

on receipt.

MTID:

Multi-Topology Identifier, as defined in

[RFC5120]

. Note that the value 0 is legal.

The SRv6 Locator TLV is followed by one or more locator entries of the form:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          Metric                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Flags       |  Algorithm    |  Loc Size     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
//              Locator (continued, variable)                  //
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|  Sub-TLV-len  |         Sub-TLVs (variable) . . .             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Metric:

4 octets, as described in

Section 4 of [RFC5305]

.

Flags:

1 octet. The following flags are defined:

 0
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|D|    Reserved |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

D-flag: "up/down bit" as described in

Section 4.1 of [RFC5305]

.

The remaining bits are reserved for future use. They
and

 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

MUST

 be set to zero on transmission

Algorithm:

Loc-Size:

1 octet, as defined in the "IGP Algorithm Types" registry

[RFC8665]

.

1 octet. Number of bits in the SRv6 Locator field, which

MUST

 be from the range

(1-128). The entire TLV

MUST

 be ignored if the Loc-Size is outside this range.

Locator:

1-16 octets. This field encodes the advertised SRv6 Locator. The SRv6 Locator is

encoded in the minimal number of octets for the given number of bits. Trailing bits
set to zero and ignored when received.

MUST

 be

Sub-TLV-length:

1 octet. Number of octets used by sub-TLVs.

Optional Sub-TLVs:

Supported sub-TLVs are specified in Section 11.1.2. Any sub-TLV that is not

allowed in the SRv6 Locator TLV

MUST

 be ignored.

The Prefix Attribute Flags sub-TLV

[RFC7794] SHOULD

 be included in the Locator TLV.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

The Prefix Attribute Flags sub-TLV
upwards in the hierarchy or originated as a result of the redistribution from another protocol or
another IS-IS instance. If the Prefix Attribute Flags sub-TLV is not included in these cases,
receivers will be unable to determine the correct source of the advertisement. The receivers will
be unable to detect the violation.

 be included in the Locator TLV when it is leaked

MUST

7.2.  SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV

The SRv6 End SID sub-TLV is introduced to advertise SRv6 SIDs with Endpoint behaviors that do
not require a particular neighbor in order to be correctly applied. SRv6 SIDs associated with a
neighbor are advertised using the sub-TLVs defined in Section 8.

Supported behavior values, together with parent TLVs in which they are advertised, are specified
in Section 10 of this document. Please note that not all behaviors defined in
defined in this document, e.g., End.T is not.

[RFC8986]

 are

This new sub-TLV is advertised in the SRv6 Locator TLV defined in the previous section. SRv6 End
SIDs inherit the topology/algorithm from the parent locator.

The SRv6 End SID sub-TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    Type       |     Length    |    Flags      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       Endpoint Behavior       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (128 bits) . . .                                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Sub-sub-TLV-len|         Sub-sub-TLVs (variable) . . .         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Type:

5. Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of

[ISO10589]

.

Length:

Flags:

Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of

[ISO10589]

. The length value is variable.

1 octet. No flags are currently defined. All bits are reserved for future use. They

MUST

 be

set to zero on transmission and

MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

Endpoint Behavior:

2 octets, as defined in

[RFC8986]

. Supported behavior values for this sub-

TLV are defined in Section 10 of this document. Unsupported or unrecognized behavior
values are ignored by the receiver.

SID:

16 octets. This field encodes the advertised SRv6 SID.

Sub-sub-TLV-length:

1 octet. Number of octets used by sub-sub-TLVs.

Optional Sub-sub-TLVs:

Supported sub-sub-TLVs are specified in Section 11.6. Any sub-sub-TLV

that is not allowed in the SRv6 End SID sub-TLV

MUST

 be ignored.

The SRv6 End SID
allocated from the associated locator

MUST

MUST

 be ignored.

 be allocated from its associated locator. SRv6 End SIDs that are not

MAY

Multiple SRv6 End SIDs
 be associated with the same locator. In cases where the number of
SRv6 End SID sub-TLVs exceeds the capacity of a single TLV, multiple Locator TLVs for the same
locator
If this restriction is not met, all TLVs for that MTID/Locator

 be advertised. For a given MTID/Locator, the algorithm

MUST
 be ignored.

 be the same in all TLVs.

MUST

MAY

8.  Advertising SRv6 Adjacency SIDs

Certain SRv6 Endpoint behaviors

[RFC8986]

 are associated with a particular adjacency.

This document defines two new sub-TLVs of TLVs 22, 23, 25, 141, 222, and 223 -- namely "SRv6
End.X SID sub-TLVs" and "SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLVs".

IS-IS neighbor advertisements are topology specific but not algorithm specific. SIDs advertised in
SRv6 End.X SID and SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLVs therefore inherit the topology from the
associated neighbor advertisement, but the algorithm is specified in the individual SID.

All SIDs advertised in SRv6 End.X SID and SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLVs
Locator with matching topology and algorithm that are advertised by the same node in an SRv6
Locator TLV. SIDs that do not meet this requirement
advertising these SIDs is also advertising its corresponding Locator with the algorithm that will
be used for computing paths destined to the SID.

 be ignored. This ensures that the node

 be a subnet of a

MUST

MUST

8.1.  SRv6 End.X SID Sub-TLV

This sub-TLV is used to advertise an SRv6 SID associated with a point-to-point adjacency. Multiple
 be associated with the same adjacency.
SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLVs

MAY

The SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLV has the following format:

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type        |     Length    |   Flags       |   Algorithm   |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Weight      |        Endpoint Behavior      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (128 bits) . . .                                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Sub-sub-tlv-len|         Sub-sub-TLVs (variable) . . .         |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Type: 43.

Length:

Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of

[ISO10589]

.

Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of

[ISO10589]

. The length value is variable.

Flags:

1 octet.

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|B|S|P|Reserved |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

B-Flag:

Backup flag. If set, the SID is eligible for protection, e.g., using IP Fast Reroute

(IPFRR)

[RFC5286]

, as described in

[RFC8355]

.

S-Flag:

Set flag. When set, the S-flag indicates that the SID refers to a set of adjacencies

(and therefore

MAY

 be assigned to other adjacencies as well).

P-Flag:

Persistent flag. When set, the P-flag indicates that the SID is persistently allocated,

i.e., the SID value remains consistent across router restart and/or interface flap.

Reserved bits:
received.

Reserved bits

MUST

 be zero when originated and

MUST

 be ignored when

Algorithm:

1 octet, as defined in the "IGP Algorithm Types" registry

[RFC8665]

.

Weight:

1 octet. The value represents the weight of the SID for the purpose of load balancing.

The use of the weight is defined in [RFC8402].

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

Endpoint Behavior:

2 octets, as defined in

[RFC8986]

. Supported behavior values for this sub-

TLV are defined in Section 10 of this document. Unsupported or unrecognized behavior
values are ignored by the receiver.

SID:

16 octets. This field encodes the advertised SRv6 SID.

Sub-sub-TLV-length:

1 octet. Number of octets used by sub-sub- TLVs.

Optional Sub-sub-TLVs:

that is not allowed in SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLV

Supported sub-sub-TLVs are specified in Section 11.6. Any sub-sub-TLV
 be ignored.

MUST

Note that multiple TLVs for the same neighbor may be required in order to advertise all the SRv6
SIDs associated with that neighbor.

8.2.  SRv6 LAN End.X SID Sub-TLV

This sub-TLV is used to advertise an SRv6 SID associated with a LAN adjacency. Since the parent
TLV is advertising an adjacency to the Designated Intermediate System (DIS) for the LAN, it is
necessary to include the System-ID of the physical neighbor on the LAN with which the SRv6 SID
is associated. Given that many neighbors may exist on a given LAN, multiple SRv6 LAN END.X
SID sub-TLVs may be associated with the same LAN. Note that multiple TLVs for the same DIS
neighbor may be required in order to advertise all the SRv6 SIDs associated with that neighbor.

The SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLV has the following format:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type        |     Length    |                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                               |
|             Neighbor System-ID (ID length octets)             |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Flags       |   Algorithm   |   Weight      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       Endpoint Behavior       |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (128 bits) . . .                                          |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| SID (cont . . .)                                              |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|Sub-sub-TLV-len|      Sub-sub-TLVs (variable) . . .            |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Type:

44. Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of

[ISO10589]

.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9352

Length:

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of

[ISO10589]

. The length value is variable.

Neighbor System-ID:

Flags:

1 octet.

IS-IS System-ID of length "ID Length", as defined in

[ISO10589]

.

 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|B|S|P|Reserved |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The B-, S-, and P-flags are as described in Section 8.1. Reserved bits
 be ignored when received.
originated and

MUST

MUST

 be zero when

Algorithm:

1 octet, as defined in the "IGP Algorithm Types" registry

[RFC8665]

.

Weight:

1 octet. The value represents the weight of the SID for the purpose of load balancing.

The use of the weight is defined in [RFC8402].

Endpoint Behavior:

2 octets, as defined in

[RFC8986]

. Supported behavior values for this sub-

TLV are defined in Section 10 of this document. Unsupported or unrecognized behavior
values are ignored by the receiver.

SID:

16 octets. This field encodes the advertised SRv6 SID.

Sub-sub-TLV-length:

1 octet. Number of octets used by sub-sub- TLVs.

Optional Sub-sub-TLVs:

Supported sub-sub-TLVs are specified in Section 11.6. Any sub-sub-TLV

that is not allowed in SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLV

MUST

 be ignored.

Note that multiple TLVs for the same neighbor, on the same LAN, may be required in order to
advertise all the SRv6 SIDs associated with that neighbor.

9.  SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV

The SRv6 SID Structure sub-sub-TLV is an optional sub-sub-TLV of:

•

SRv6 End SID sub-TLV (Section 7.2)

•

SRv6 End.X SID sub-TLV (Section 8.1)

•

SRv6 LAN End.X SID sub-TLV (Section 8.2)

The SRv6 SID Structure sub-sub-TLV is used to advertise the structure of the SRv6 SID, as defined
in

. It has the following format:

[RFC8986]

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      Type     |    Length     |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|    LB Length  |  LN Length    | Fun. Length   |  Arg. Length  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

where:

Type:

1. Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of

[ISO10589]

.

Length:

Single octet, as defined in Section 9 of

[ISO10589]

. The length value is 4 octets.

LB Length:

1 octet. SRv6 SID Locator Block length in bits.

LN Length:

1 octet. SRv6 SID Locator Node length in bits.

Fun. Length:

1 octet. SRv6 SID Function length in bits.

Arg. Length:

1 octet. SRv6 SID Arguments length in bits.

The IS-IS SRv6 SID Structure sub-sub-TLV
If it appears more than once in its parent sub-TLV, the parent sub-TLV
receiver.

MUST NOT

 appear more than once in its parent sub-TLV.

MUST

 be ignored by the

The sum of all four sizes advertised in the IS-IS SRv6 SID Structure sub-sub-TLV
 be less
than or equal to 128 bits. If the sum of all four sizes advertised in the IS-IS SRv6 SID Structure
sub-sub-TLV is larger than 128 bits, the parent sub-TLV

 be ignored by the receiver.

MUST

MUST

The SRv6 SID Structure sub-sub-TLV is intended for informational use by the control and
management planes. It
) for
forwarding packets. As an example, this information could be used for the following:

 be used at a transit node (as defined in

[RFC8754]

MUST NOT

•

validation of SRv6 SIDs being instantiated in the network and advertised via IS-IS. These can
be learned by controllers via Border Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS) and then be
monitored for conformance to the SRv6 SID allocation scheme chosen by the operator, as
described in

Section 3.2 of [RFC8986]

.

•

verification and automation for securing the SRv6 domain by provisioning filtering rules at
SR domain boundaries, as described in

Section 5 of [RFC8754]

.

The details of these potential applications are outside the scope of this document.

10.  Advertising Endpoint Behaviors

Endpoint behaviors are defined in
defined in the "SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors" registry defined in
advertised, it
NOT

 be advertised in the TLV(s) marked with "N" in the table below.

[RFC8986]

MUST

. The codepoints for the Endpoint behaviors are

[RFC8986]

. If a behavior is

 only be advertised in the TLV(s) marked with "Y" in the table below and

MUST

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

Endpoint Behavior

Endpoint Behavior
Codepoint

End
SID

End.X
SID

Lan End.X
SID

End (PSP, USP, USD)

1-4, 28-31

End.X (PSP, USP,
USD)

5-8, 32-35

End.DX6

End.DX4

End.DT6

End.DT4

End.DT46

16

17

18

19

20

Table 1: Endpoint Behaviors

11.  IANA Considerations

Y

N

N

N

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

Y

N

N

N

N

Y

Y

Y

N

N

N

This document requests allocation for the following TLVs, sub-TLVs, and sub-sub-TLVs by
updating the existing registries and defining new registries under the "IS-IS TLV Codepoints"
grouping.

11.1.  SRv6 Locator TLV

The SRv6 Locator TLV shares sub-TLV space with TLVs advertising prefix reachability. IANA has
updated the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability" registry initially defined in
[RFC7370]
to include the SRv6 Locator TLV (27).

 by adding this document as a reference and updating the description of that registry

This document makes the following registration in the "IS-IS Top-Level TLV Codepoints" registry:

Value Name

IIH LSP

SNP

Purge

27

SRv6 Locator

n

y

n

n

Table 2: IS-IS Top-Level TLV Codepoints Registry

11.1.1.  SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV

This document makes the following registration:

Type Description

27

135

235

236

237

Reference

5

SRv6 End SID

y

n

n

n

n

RFC 9352, Section 7.2

Table 3: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability Registry

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

11.1.2.  IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability Registry

IANA has updated the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability" registry to
include a column for the SRv6 Locator TLV (27) as shown below:

Type Description

27

135

235

236

237

1

2

3

4

6

11

12

32

32-bit Administrative Tag Sub-TLV

64-bit Administrative Tag Sub-TLV

Prefix Segment Identifier

Prefix Attribute Flags

Flexible Algorithm Prefix Metric (FAPM)

IPv4 Source Router ID

IPv6 Source Router ID

BIER Info

y

y

n

y

n

y

y

n

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

Table 4: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Prefix Reachability Registry

11.2.  SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV

This document makes the following registration in the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router
CAPABILITY TLV" registry:

Value Description

Reference

25

SRv6 Capabilities

RFC 9352, Section 2

Table 5: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for IS-IS Router CAPABILITY
TLV Registry

11.3.  IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for the SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV" registry under the "IS-IS
TLV Codepoints" grouping for the assignment of sub-TLV types for the SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV
specified in this document (Section 2). This registry defines sub-sub-TLVs for the SRv6
Capabilities sub-TLV (25) advertised in the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY TLV (242).

The registration procedure is "Expert Review", as defined in
designated experts is provided in
except for the reserved type 0.

[RFC7370]

[RFC8126]

. Guidance for the

. No sub-sub-TLVs are defined by this document,

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

Value

Description

Reference

0

Reserved

RFC 9532

1-255

Unassigned

Table 6: IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6
Capabilities Sub-TLV Registry

11.4.  SRv6 End.X SID and SRv6 LAN End.X SID Sub-TLVs

This document makes the following registrations in the "IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising
Neighbor Information" registry:

Type Description

22

23

25

141

222

223

Reference

43

44

SRv6 End.X SID

SRv6 LAN End.X SID

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

y

RFC 9352, Section 8.1

RFC 9352, Section 8.2

Table 7: IS-IS Sub-TLVs for TLVs Advertising Neighbor Information Registry

11.5.  MSD Types

This document makes the following registrations in the "IGP MSD-Types" registry:

Value Name

Reference

41

42

44

45

SRH Max SL

RFC 9352

SRH Max End Pop

RFC 9352

SRH Max H.encaps

RFC 9352

SRH Max End D

RFC 9352

Table 8: IGP MSD-Types

11.6.  IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID Sub-TLVs Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID Sub-TLVs" registry under the "IS-IS TLV
Codepoints" grouping to assign sub-TLV types for the SID sub-TLVs specified in this document
(Sections 7.2, 8.1, and 8.2).

This registry defines sub-sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID sub-TLVs. This includes the following sub-TLVs:

•

SRv6 End SID (5) (Advertised in SRv6 Locator TLV (27))

•

SRv6 End.X SID (43) (Advertised in TLVs advertising neighbor information)

•

SRv6 LAN End.X SID (44) (Advertised in TLVs advertising neighbor information)

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

The registration procedure is "Expert Review", as defined in
designated experts is provided in
document:

[RFC7370]

[RFC8126]
. Guidance for the
. The following assignments are made by this

Type

Description

5

43

44

Reference

0

1

Reserved

RFC 9352

SRv6 SID Structure

y

y

y

RFC 9352

2-255

Unassigned

Table 9: IS-IS Sub-Sub-TLVs for SRv6 SID Sub-TLVs Registry

11.7.  Prefix Attribute Flags Sub-TLV

This document adds a new bit in the "IS-IS Bit Values for Prefix Attribute Flags Sub-TLV" registry:

Bit # Name

Reference

4

Anycast Flag (A-flag)

RFC 9352, Section 6

Table 10: IS-IS Bit Values for Prefix Attribute Flags Sub-
TLV Registry

11.8.  IS-IS SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Flags Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Flags" registry under the "IS-IS TLV
Codepoints" grouping to assign bits 0 to 15 in the Flags field of the IS-IS SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV
specified in this document (Section 2). This registry defines bit values advertised in the Flags field
of the SRv6 Capabilities sub-TLV (25). This sub-TLV is advertised in the IS-IS Router CAPABILITY
TLV (242).

The registration procedure is "Expert Review", as defined in
designated experts is provided in
document:

[RFC7370]

[RFC8126]
. Guidance for the
. The following assignments are made by this

Type Description

Reference

0

1

Unassigned

O-flag

RFC 9352, Section 2

2-15

Unassigned

Table 11: IS-IS SRv6 Capabilities Sub-TLV Flags
Registry

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

11.9.  IS-IS SRv6 Locator TLV Flags Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS SRv6 Locator TLV Flags" registry under the "IS-IS TLV Codepoints"
grouping to assign bits 0 to 7 in the Flags field of the SRv6 Locator TLV specified in this document
(Section 7.1). This registry defines bit values advertised in the Flags field of the SRv6 Locator TLV
(27).

The registration procedure is "Expert Review", as defined in
designated experts is provided in
document:

[RFC7370]

[RFC8126]
. Guidance for the
. The following assignments are made by this

Value Description

Reference

0

D-flag

RFC 9352, Section 7.1

1-7

Unassigned

Table 12: IS-IS SRv6 Locator TLV Flags Registry

11.10.  IS-IS SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV Flags Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV Flags" registry under the "IS-IS TLV
Codepoints" grouping to assign bits 0 to 7 in the Flags field of the IS-IS SRv6 End SID sub-TLV
specified in this document (Section 7.2). This registry defines bit values advertised in the Flags
field of the SRv6 End SID sub-TLV (5), which is advertised in the SRv6 Locator TLV (27).

The registration procedure is "Expert Review", as defined in
designated experts is provided in

[RFC8126]
. Guidance for the
. No assignments are made by this document.

[RFC7370]

Value

0-7

Description

Unassigned

Table 13: IS-IS SRv6 End SID Sub-TLV Flags
Registry

11.11.  IS-IS SRv6 Adjacency SID Sub-TLVs Flags Registry

IANA has created the "IS-IS SRv6 Adjacency SID Sub-TLVs Flags" registry under the "IS-IS TLV
Codepoints" grouping to assign bits 0 to 7 in the Flags field of the IS-IS SRv6 End.X SID and LAN
End.X SID sub-TLVs (Sections 8.1 and 8.2).

This registry defines bit values advertised in the Flags field of SRv6 SID sub-TLVs associated with
adjacencies. These sub-TLVs are advertised in TLVs advertising neighbor information. The list of
sub-TLVs includes:

•

SRv6 End.X SID (43)

•

SRv6 LAN End.X SID (44)

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

The registration procedure is "Expert Review", as defined in
designated experts is provided in
document:

[RFC7370]

[RFC8126]
. Guidance for the
. The following assignments are made by this

Value Description

Reference

0

1

2

B-flag

S-flag

P-flag

RFC 9352, Section 8.1

RFC 9352, Section 8.1

RFC 9352, Section 8.1

3-7

Unassigned

Table 14: IS-IS SRv6 Adjacency SID Sub-TLVs Flags
Registry

12.  Security Considerations

Security concerns for IS-IS are addressed in
deployed under a single administrative domain, there can be deployments where potential
attackers have access to one or more networks in the IS-IS routing domain. In these deployments,
the stronger authentication mechanisms defined in the aforementioned documents
used.

[ISO10589] [RFC5304]
,

. While IS-IS is

[RFC5310]

SHOULD

, and

 be

This document describes the IS-IS extensions required to support SR over an IPv6 data plane. The
security considerations for SR are discussed in
Programming concept and specifies the main SR behaviors to enable the creation of
interoperable overlays; the security considerations from that document apply too.

 defines the SRv6 Network

[RFC8402] [RFC8986]
.

The advertisement for an incorrect MSD value may have negative consequences; see
for additional considerations.

[RFC8491]

Security concerns associated with the setting of the O-flag are described in

[RFC9259]
.

Security concerns associated with the usage of Flexible Algorithms are described in

[RFC9350]

).

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[ISO10589]

,

ISO "Information technology - Telecommunications and information exchange
between systems - Intermediate System to Intermediate System intra-domain
routeing information exchange protocol for use in conjunction with the protocol
for providing the connectionless-mode network service (ISO 8473)" Second
Edition ISO/IEC 10589:2002

, November 2002.

,

,

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

[RFC2119]

[RFC5120]

[RFC5305]

[RFC5308]

[RFC7370]

[RFC7794]

[RFC7981]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8402]

[RFC8491]

[RFC8665]

[RFC8667]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Przygienda, T. Shen, N.
Intermediate System to Intermediate Systems (IS-ISs)" RFC 5120 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5120

N. Sheth "M-ISIS: Multi Topology (MT) Routing in

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5120>

, February 2008,

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

Li, T.
,
10.17487/RFC5305

H. Smit "IS-IS Extensions for Traffic Engineering" RFC 5305 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5305>

, October 2008,

,

,

.

Hopps, C. "Routing IPv6 with IS-IS" RFC 5308 DOI 10.17487/RFC5308
2008,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5308>

,

,

.

, October

Ginsberg, L. "Updates to the IS-IS TLV Codepoints Registry" RFC 7370 DOI
10.17487/RFC7370

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7370>

, September 2014,

,

,

,

.

,

Ginsberg, L., Ed. Decraene, B. Previdi, S. Xu, X.
Attributes for Extended IPv4 and IPv6 Reachability" RFC 7794 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7794

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7794>

U. Chunduri "IS-IS Prefix
,

, March 2016,

, and
,

,

,

.

Ginsberg, L. Previdi, S.
,
, and
Information" RFC 7981 DOI 10.17487/RFC7981
,
editor.org/info/rfc7981>
.

,

,

M. Chen "IS-IS Extensions for Advertising Router

, October 2016,

<https://www.rfc-

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

,

.

, and

R.
, July

,

Tantsura, J. Chunduri, U. Aldrin, S.
, and
Depth (MSD) Using IS-IS" RFC 8491 DOI 10.17487/RFC8491
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8491>

,
,

,

.

L. Ginsberg "Signaling Maximum SID

, November 2018,

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Filsfils, C. Gredler, H. Shakir, R. Henderickx, W.
,
,
and
10.17487/RFC8665

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8665>

J. Tantsura "OSPF Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC 8665 DOI

, December 2019,

,

,

.

,

,

,

,

B.
Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L., Ed. Filsfils, C. Bashandy, A. Gredler, H.
Decraene "IS-IS Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC 8667 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8667

,
, December 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8667>

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

[RFC8754]

[RFC8986]

[RFC9259]

[RFC9350]

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Dukes, D., Ed. Previdi, S. Leddy, J. Matsushima, S.
"IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)" RFC 8754 DOI 10.17487/RFC8754
2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8754>

, and

,
,

,

,

,

.

D. Voyer
,
, March

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Camarillo, P., Ed. Leddy, J. Voyer, D. Matsushima, S.
"Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) Network Programming" RFC 8986 DOI
10.17487/RFC8986

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8986>

, February 2021,

, and
,

Z. Li

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Ali, Z. Filsfils, C. Matsushima, S. Voyer, D.
Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) in Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)"
RFC 9259 DOI 10.17487/RFC9259
, June 2022,
rfc9259>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

M. Chen "Operations,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Psenak, P., Ed. Hegde, S. Filsfils, C. Talaulikar, K.
,
Algorithm" RFC 9350 DOI 10.17487/RFC9350
,
,
editor.org/rfc/rfc9350>
.

,

, and

A. Gulko "IGP Flexible

,

, February 2023,

<https://www.rfc-

13.2.  Informative References

[RFC5286]

[RFC5304]

[RFC5310]

[RFC8355]

 and

Atlas, A., Ed.
Alternates" RFC 5286 DOI 10.17487/RFC5286
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc5286>

A. Zinin, Ed. "Basic Specification for IP Fast Reroute: Loop-Free
<https://www.rfc-

, September 2008,

,

.

 and

Li, T.
10.17487/RFC5304

R. Atkinson "IS-IS Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5304 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5304>

, October 2008,

,

,

,

.

,

Bhatia, M. Manral, V. Li, T. Atkinson, R. White, R.
,
Cryptographic Authentication" RFC 5310 DOI 10.17487/RFC5310
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5310>
.

, and

,

,

M. Fanto "IS-IS Generic

,
, February 2009,

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Decraene, B.
in Source Packet Routing in Networking (SPRING) Networks" RFC 8355 DOI
10.17487/RFC8355

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8355>

R. Shakir "Resiliency Use Cases

, March 2018,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

Thanks to

Christian Hopps

 for his review comments and shepherd work.

Thanks to

Alvaro Retana

 and

John Scudder

 for AD review and comments.

Contributors

The following people gave a substantial contribution to the content of this document and should
be considered coauthors:

Stefano Previdi
Huawei Technologies
Email:

 stefano@previdi.net

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

Paul Wells
Cisco Systems
Saint Paul Minnesota
,
United States of America
Email:

 pauwells@cisco.com

Daniel Voyer
Email:

 daniel.voyer@bell.ca

Satoru Matsushima
Email:

 satoru.matsushima@g.softbank.co.jp

Bart Peirens
Email:

 bart.peirens@proximus.com

Hani Elmalky
Email:

 hani.elmalky@ericsson.com

Prem Jonnalagadda
Email:

 prem@barefootnetworks.com

Milad Sharif
Email:

 msharif@barefootnetworks.com

Robert Hanzl
Cisco Systems
Millenium Plaza Building, V Celnici 10, Prague 1
Prague
Czech Republic
Email:

 rhanzl@cisco.com

Ketan Talaulikar
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

 ketant@cisco.com

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Peter Psenak (
Cisco Systems
Pribinova Street 10
81109 Bratislava
Slovakia
Email:

 ppsenak@cisco.com

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9352

IS-IS SRv6 Extensions

February 2023

Clarence Filsfils
Cisco Systems
Brussels
Belgium
Email:

 cfilsfil@cisco.com

Ahmed Bashandy
Cisco Systems
Milpitas
United States of America
Email:

,

 bashandy@cisco.com

Bruno Decraene
Orange
Chatillon
France
Email:

 bruno.decraene@orange.com

Zhibo Hu
Huawei Technologies
Email:

 huzhibo@huawei.com

Psenak, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

