Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9555
6350
Standards Track
May 2024
2070-1721
M. Loffredo
IIT-CNR/Registro.it

R. Stepanek
Fastmail

RFC 9555
JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

Abstract

This document defines how to convert contact information between the JSContact and vCard
data formats. It defines conversion rules for every JSContact and vCard element registered at
IANA at the time of publication. It also defines new JSContact properties as well as vCard
properties and parameters, to support converting arbitrary or unknown JSContact and vCard
elements.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9555
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF Contributions published or
made publicly available before November 10, 2008. The person(s) controlling the copyright in
some of this material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow modifications of
such material outside the IETF Standards Process. Without obtaining an adequate license from
the person(s) controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modified
outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may not be created outside the
IETF Standards Process, except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into
languages other than English.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Motivation

1.2.  Notational Conventions

1.3.  ABNF Notations

2.  Converting vCard to JSContact

2.1.  General Rules

2.1.1.  The Card uid Property

2.1.2.  Choosing Identifiers

2.2.  vCard Value Data Types

2.2.1.  BOOLEAN

2.2.2.  DATE, TIME, DATE-TIME, DATE-AND-OR-TIME, and TIMESTAMP

2.2.3.  INTEGER

2.2.4.  FLOAT

2.2.5.  LANGUAGE-TAG

2.2.6.  TEXT

2.2.7.  URI

2.2.8.  UTC-OFFSET

2.3.  vCard Parameters

2.3.1.  ALTID

2.3.2.  AUTHOR

2.3.3.  AUTHOR-NAME

2.3.4.  CALSCALE

6

6

6

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

7

8

8

8

8

8

8

8

9

9

9

9

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.3.5.  CC

2.3.6.  CREATED

2.3.7.  DERIVED

2.3.8.  GEO

2.3.9.  GROUP

2.3.10. INDEX

2.3.11. LANGUAGE

2.3.12. LABEL

2.3.13. LEVEL

2.3.14. MEDIATYPE

2.3.15. PHONETIC

2.3.16. PID

2.3.17. PREF

2.3.18. PROP-ID

2.3.19. SCRIPT

2.3.20. SERVICE-TYPE

2.3.21. SORT-AS

2.3.22. TYPE

2.3.23. TZ

2.3.24. USERNAME

2.3.25. VALUE

2.4.  General Properties

2.4.1.  BEGIN and END

2.4.2.  KIND

2.4.3.  SOURCE

2.4.4.  XML

2.5.  Identification Properties

2.5.1.  ANNIVERSARY, BDAY, BIRTHPLACE, DEATHDATE, and DEATHPLACE

2.5.2.  FN

2.5.3.  GENDER

9

9

9

9

9

10

10

12

12

12

12

13

13

14

14

14

14

14

15

15

15

15

15

15

15

16

16

16

17

18

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.5.4.  GRAMGENDER and PRONOUNS

2.5.5.  N

2.5.6.  NICKNAME

2.5.7.  PHOTO

2.6.  Delivery Addressing Properties

2.6.1.  ADR

2.7.  Communications Properties

2.7.1.  EMAIL

2.7.2.  IMPP

2.7.3.  LANG

2.7.4.  LANGUAGE

2.7.5.  SOCIALPROFILE

2.7.6.  TEL

2.8.  Geographical Properties

2.8.1.  GEO

2.8.2.  TZ

2.8.3.  Combining Geographical Properties

2.9.  Organizational Properties

2.9.1.  CONTACT-URI

2.9.2.  LOGO

2.9.3.  MEMBER

2.9.4.  ORG

2.9.5.  RELATED

2.9.6.  TITLE and ROLE

2.10. Personal Information Properties

2.10.1.  EXPERTISE

2.10.2.  HOBBY

2.10.3.  INTEREST

2.10.4.  ORG-DIRECTORY

18

19

20

20

21

21

24

24

24

25

25

26

26

27

27

27

28

28

28

29

29

30

30

31

32

32

33

34

34

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.11. Explanatory Properties

2.11.1.  CATEGORIES

2.11.2.  CLIENTPIDMAP

2.11.3.  CREATED

2.11.4.  NOTE

2.11.5.  PRODID

2.11.6.  REV

2.11.7.  SOUND

2.11.8.  UID

2.11.9.  URL

2.11.10. VERSION

2.11.11. X-ABLabel

2.12. Security Properties

2.12.1.  KEY

2.13. Calendar Properties

2.13.1.  CALADRURI

2.13.2.  CALURI

2.13.3.  FBURL

2.14. Extended Properties and Parameters

2.15. New JSContact Properties

2.15.1.  vCardProps

2.15.2.  vCardParams

2.15.3.  vCardName

3.  Converting JSContact to vCard

3.1.  Conversion Rules

3.1.1.  Converting Unknown Properties

3.2.  New vCard Properties

3.2.1.  JSPROP

3.3.  New vCard Parameters

3.3.1.  JSCOMPS

35

35

35

36

36

36

37

37

37

38

38

38

39

39

39

39

40

40

41

41

41

42

42

43

43

43

44

44

45

45

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

3.3.2.  JSPTR

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  New vCard Property

5.2.  New vCard Parameter

5.3.  New JSContact Properties

5.4.  New JSContact Type

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Reverse Rules of Converting a vCard to a JSContact Card

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Motivation

48

49

49

49

49

50

50

50

50

51

52

59

60

The JSContact data model and format
vCard standard

[RFC6350]

 and jCard format

[RFC9553]

[RFC7095]
.

 aims to be an alternative to the widely used

While applications might prefer JSContact to exchange contact card data with other systems, they
are likely to interoperate with services and clients that only support vCard or jCard. Similarly,
existing contact data providers and consumers already using vCard or jCard might also want to
represent their contact data in JSContact.

To achieve this, this document defines standard rules to convert contact data between JSContact
and vCard (and consequently jCard).

1.2.  Notational Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

1.3.  ABNF Notations

The ABNF definitions in this document use the notations of
this document are defined in either
VCHAR, ALPHA, and DIGIT) or

[RFC5234]
[RFC6350]
.

[RFC5234]

. ABNF rules not defined in

 (such as the ABNF for CRLF, WSP, DQUOTE,

2.  Converting vCard to JSContact

This section contains the conversion rules from the vCard to the JSContact Card. It follows the
same structure as vCard v4
including those described in "vCard Format Extension for JSContact"
to the appropriate subsections.

. Properties and parameters of vCard extension RFCs,

[RFC9554]

[RFC6350]

, have been added

2.1.  General Rules

2.1.1.  The Card uid Property

The UID property (
property (
without a UID property
value
this is implementation-specific.

SHOULD

MUST

Section 6.7.6 of [RFC6350]

) in vCard is optional, but the Card object's uid

Section 2.1.9 of [RFC9553]

) is mandatory. Implementations that convert a vCard

 generate a unique identifier as value for the uid property. This

 be the same when converting the same vCard multiple times, but how to achieve

2.1.2.  Choosing Identifiers

Section 1.4.1 of [RFC9553]

Multivalued properties in JSContact are typically represented as a JSON object where the object
) and the object values are the converted vCard
keys are of the Id type (
property. In the absence of the PROP-ID parameter (see Section 2.3.18), implementations are free
to choose any identifier as key for such entries. Whatever identifier generation scheme
implementations use, they
Id type in
keys in the Card object or only unique within one JSON object.

. For example, this could be an incrementing number across all identifier

 generate values that are valid according to the definition of the

[RFC9553]

MUST

2.2.  vCard Value Data Types

2.2.1.  BOOLEAN

The BOOLEAN type (
1.3.2 of [RFC9553]

).

Section 4.4 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the JSContact Boolean type (

Section

2.2.2.  DATE, TIME, DATE-TIME, DATE-AND-OR-TIME, and TIMESTAMP

The TIMESTAMP type (
of [RFC9553]
Section 2.8.1 of [RFC9553]
(

).

Section 4.3.5 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the UTCDateTime type (

Section 1.4.5

), except for anniversaries. For anniversaries, it converts to the Timestamp type

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

The DATE type (
[RFC9553]
(but not both).

Section 4.3.1 of [RFC6350]

) converts to a PartialDate object (

Section 2.8.1 of

) when used for an anniversary, unless the DATE value only contains a month or a day

The following temporal types do not convert to a JSContact datetime type. Instead, vCard
properties or parameters having such value types convert as defined in Section 2.15.

•

TIME (

Section 4.3.2 of [RFC6350]

)

•

DATE-TIME (

Section 4.3.3 of [RFC6350]

)

•

DATE-AND-OR-TIME (

Section 4.3.4 of [RFC6350]

)

•

DATE type values that only define a month or day (but not both)

2.2.3.  INTEGER

The INTEGER type (
Section 1.4.2 of [RFC9553]
(

).

Section 4.5 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the JSContact Int and UnsignedInt types

2.2.4.  FLOAT

The FLOAT type (
[RFC9553]

).

Section 4.6 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the JSContact Number type (

Section 1.3.2 of

2.2.5.  LANGUAGE-TAG

The LANGUAGE-TAG type (
1.3.2 of [RFC9553]

). The value

Section 4.8 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the JSContact String type (

Section

MUST

 be a language tag as defined in

[RFC5646]
.

2.2.6.  TEXT

The TEXT type (
[RFC9553]

).

Section 4.1 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the JSContact String type (

Section 1.3.2 of

2.2.7.  URI

The URI type (
[RFC9553]

Section 4.2 of [RFC6350]
MUST

). The value

 be a URI as defined in

Section 3 of [RFC3986]

) converts to the JSContact String type (

Section 1.3.2 of

2.2.8.  UTC-OFFSET

Section 4.7 of [RFC6350]

The UTC-OFFSET type (
IANA Time Zone Database entry name (see Section 2.8.2) or does not convert to any JSContact
type. For the latter, vCard properties or parameters having such values convert as defined in
Section 2.15.

) either converts to a String value containing an

2.3.  vCard Parameters

This section contains the conversion rules for vCard parameters. A rule typically applies only for
specific vCard properties. To convert a vCard parameter on an arbitrary vCard property, see
Section 2.15.2.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.3.1.  ALTID

Section 5.4 of [RFC6350]

The ALTID parameter (
) does not convert to an IANA-registered property
in JSContact, but several conversion rules make use of this parameter to combine multiple vCard
properties into a single JSContact object instance. For an example of this, see Section 2.6.1. To
preserve the verbatim value of the ALTID parameter, set the JSContact properties defined in
Section 2.15.

2.3.2.  AUTHOR

The AUTHOR parameter (
object's uri property (
object's author property (

Section 2.8.3 of [RFC9553]

).

Section 4.1 of [RFC9554]

Section 2.8.3 of [RFC9553]

) on a NOTE property converts to the Author
). That Author object is set as the value of the Note

2.3.3.  AUTHOR-NAME

The AUTHOR-NAME parameter (
Author object's name property (
of the Note object's author property.

Section 4.2 of [RFC9554]
Section 2.8.3 of [RFC9553]

) on a NOTE property converts to the
). That Author object is set as the value

2.3.4.  CALSCALE

The CALSCALE parameter (
ANNIVERSARY property converts to the PartialDate object's calendarScale property (
of [RFC9553]

) set on a BDAY, DEATHDATE, or

Section 5.8 of [RFC6350]

).

Section 2.8.1

2.3.5.  CC

The CC parameter (
countryCode property (

Section 2.5.1.1 of [RFC9553]

).

Section 3.1 of [RFC8605]

) on an ADR property converts to the Address object's

2.3.6.  CREATED

The CREATED parameter (
object's created property (

Section 4.3 of [RFC9554]
Section 2.8.3 of [RFC9553]

).

) on a NOTE property converts to the Note

2.3.7.  DERIVED

The DERIVED parameter (
parameter is set to "true" on a vCard property, then implementations
that property.

Section 4.4 of [RFC9554]

) does not convert to JSContact. If the DERIVED
 choose not to convert

MAY

2.3.8.  GEO

The GEO parameter (
object's coordinates property (

Section 2.5.1.1 of [RFC9553]

).

Section 5.10 of [RFC6350]

) set on an ADR property converts to the Address

2.3.9.  GROUP

The GROUP parameter (
for use in jCard and

Section 7.1 of [RFC7095]
 be set in a vCard.

MUST NOT

) does not convert to JSContact. It exclusively is

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

Preserving the exact group name when converting from vCard to JSContact and back to vCard is
not necessary. Any group identifiers will do, as long as the resulting vCard groups its properties
equally to the original vCard. Implementations that still wish to preserve the exact property
group name of a vCard property
vCardProps or vCardParams as defined in Section 2.15.

 set the jCard "group" parameter in the JSContact properties

MAY

item1.TEL;VALUE=uri:tel:+1-555-555-5555

"phones": {
  "p1": {
    "number": "tel:+1-555-555-5555",
    "vCardParams" : {
     "group" : "item1"
    }
  }
}

Figure 1: Example of How to Preserve the Group Name in vCardParams during Conversion

item2.X-FOO:bar

"vCardProps": [
  ["x-foo", {
    "group": "item2"
  }, "unknown", "bar"]
]

Figure 2: Example of How to Preserve the Group Name in vCardProps during Conversion

2.3.10.  INDEX

The INDEX parameter (
ORG-DIRECTORY properties converts to the PersonalInfo (
Directory (

Section 2.6.2 of [RFC9553]

Section 3.1 of [RFC6715]

) objects' listAs property.

) set on the EXPERTISE, HOBBY, INTEREST, and
Section 2.8.4 of [RFC9553]

) and

2.3.11.  LANGUAGE

The LANGUAGE parameter (
localizations property (
parameter is set on. The value of the LANGUAGE parameter defines the language tag key in the
localizations property.

) converts to an entry in the Card object's

) for that vCard property on which this

Section 2.7.1 of [RFC9553]

Section 5.1 of [RFC6350]

This specification does not define a single standard conversion rule for how to convert the
property values. Instead, building the localizations value is implementation-specific.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

Two options to populate the localizations property are:

•

One Patch per Property: For each vCard property with a LANGUAGE parameter, set the
complete path in the PatchObject to the JSContact property that the vCard property converts
to. The value of the patch is the converted property value. This is simple to process and
adequate if the vCard only contains a few properties with the LANGUAGE parameter.

•

Bundle Patches by Parent: If a PatchObject contains multiple paths that have the same parent
paths, then it might be possible to combine these patches into one patch that patches the
parent property. This is possible if the property in the Card is patched in its entirety.

Generally, localizations only localize properties that are present in the non-localized version of
this Card. Figure 3 illustrates this.

FN;LANGUAGE=EN:John Doe
TITLE;ALTID=1;LANGUAGE=EN:Boss
TITLE;ALTID=1;LANGUAGE=fr:Patron

"language": "en",
"name": {
  "full": "John Doe"
},
"titles": {
  "t1": {
    "name": "Boss"
  }
},
"localizations": {
  "fr": {
    "titles/t1/name": "Patron"
  }
}

Figure 3: LANGUAGE Conversion Example: One Dominant Language

As a special case, if one or more vCard properties of the same type do not have the LANGUAGE
parameter set, add them to the non-localized Card. Convert any with LANGUAGE parameters to
the localizations property. Figure 4 illustrates this.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

FN:John Doe
TITLE;ALTID=1:Boss
TITLE;ALTID=1;LANGUAGE=fr:Patron

"name": {
  "full": "John Doe"
},
"titles": {
  "t1": {
    "name": "Boss"
  }
},
"localizations": {
  "fr": {
    "titles/t1/name": "Patron"
  }
}

Figure 4: LANGUAGE Conversion Example: Property without Language

2.3.12.  LABEL

The LABEL parameter (
object's full property (

Section 6.3.1 of [RFC6350]
Section 2.5.1.1 of [RFC9553]

) on an ADR property converts to the Address
).

2.3.13.  LEVEL

The LEVEL parameter (
property (
values convert as follows:

Section 3.2 of [RFC6715]

) converts to the PersonalInfo object's level

Section 2.8.4 of [RFC9553]

). If this parameter is set on the EXPERTISE property, then its

•

"beginner" converts to "low";

•

"average" converts to "medium"; and

•

"expert" converts to "high".

In all other cases, the values convert verbatim, but lowercase
value.

MUST

 be used for the JSContact

2.3.14.  MEDIATYPE

The MEDIATYPE parameter (
mediaType property (

Section 1.4.4 of [RFC9553]

).

Section 5.7 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the Resource object's

2.3.15.  PHONETIC

The PHONETIC parameter (
[RFC9553]
parameter value is "script", in which case the phoneticSystem property is not set.

Section 4.6 of [RFC9554]
Section 2.5.1 of [RFC9553]

) converts to the Name (
) objects' phoneticSystem property unless the

) and Address (

Section 2.2.1 of

The value of the SCRIPT parameter converts to the phoneticScript property (see Section 2.3.19).

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

The related N or ADR property is defined by the vCard ALTID parameter. The conversion rules
for the
convert to JSContact.

 properties define how the vCard components

ADR (Section 2.6.1)

N (Section 2.5.5)

 and

The component values of the property on which the PHONETIC parameter is set convert to the
respective NameComponent or AddressComponent objects' phonetic properties.

If more than one property has the PHONETIC parameter set and relates to the same property,
then they convert to the Card object's localizations property according to their LANGUAGE
parameter values as outlined in Section 2.3.11.

LANGUAGE=zh-Hant
N;ALTID=1;LANGUAGE=zh-Hant:孫;中山;文,逸仙;;
N;ALTID=1;PHONETIC=jyut;
  SCRIPT=Latn;LANGUAGE=yue:syun1;zung1saan1;man4,jat6sin1;;

"language": "zh-Hant",
"name": {
  "components": [
    { "kind": "surname", "value": "孫" },
    { "kind": "given", "value": "中山" },
    { "kind": "given2", "value": "文" },
    { "kind": "given2", "value": "逸仙" }
  ]
},
"localizations": {
  "yue": {
    "name/phoneticSystem": "jyut",
    "name/phoneticScript": "Latn",
    "name/components/0/phonetic": "syun1",
    "name/components/1/phonetic": "zung1saan1",
    "name/components/2/phonetic": "man4",
    "name/components/3/phonetic": "jat6sin1"
  }
}

Figure 5: PHONETIC Conversion Example

2.3.16.  PID

The PID parameter (
2.15.2.

Section 5.5 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the vCardParams property; see Section

2.3.17.  PREF

The PREF parameter (
JSContact object.

Section 5.3 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the pref property of the derived

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.3.18.  PROP-ID

The PROP-ID parameter (
JSContact object.

Section 4.7 of [RFC9554]

) converts to the Id-typed key of the derived

TEL;PROP-ID=PHONE-A;VALUE=uri;PREF=1;TYPE="voice,home"
  :tel:+1-555-555-5555;ext=5555
TEL;PROP-ID=PHONE-B;VALUE=uri;TYPE=home
  :tel:+33-01-23-45-67

"phones": {
  "PHONE-A": {
    "contexts": { "private": true },
    "features": { "voice": true },
    "number": "tel:+1-555-555-5555;ext=5555",
    "pref": 1
  },
  "PHONE-B": {
    "contexts": { "private": true },
    "number": "tel:+33-01-23-45-67"
  }
}

Figure 6: PROP-ID Conversion Example

2.3.19.  SCRIPT

The SCRIPT parameter (
[RFC9553]
) or Address (

Section 4.8 of [RFC9554]
Section 2.5.1 of [RFC9553]

) converts to the Name (

Section 2.2.1 of

) objects' phoneticScript property.

Also see Section 2.3.15.

2.3.20.  SERVICE-TYPE

The SERVICE-TYPE parameter (
service property (

Section 4.9 of [RFC9554]
).

Section 2.3.2 of [RFC9553]

) converts to the OnlineService object's

2.3.21.  SORT-AS

The SORT-AS parameter (
OrgUnit objects' sortAs properties.

Section 5.9 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the Name, Organization, and

2.3.22.  TYPE

The TYPE parameter (
kind property, as defined in later sections. If not otherwise specified, the vCard "home" and
"work" parameter values convert to the JSContact "private" and "work" contexts, respectively.

) converts to either the contexts property or the

Section 5.6 of [RFC6350]

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.3.23.  TZ

The TZ parameter (
object's timeZone property (
property in Section 2.8.2.

Section 5.11 of [RFC6350]

Section 2.5.1.1 of [RFC9553]

) on an ADR property converts to the Address
). Also see the conversion of the TZ

2.3.24.  USERNAME

The USERNAME parameter (
property (

Section 2.3.2 of [RFC9553]

).

Section 4.10 of [RFC9554]

) converts to the OnlineService object's user

2.3.25.  VALUE

The VALUE parameter (
in JSContact. To preserve properties with experimental values, see Sections 2.15.1 and 2.15.2.

) does not convert to an IANA-registered property

Section 5.2 of [RFC6350]

2.4.  General Properties

2.4.1.  BEGIN and END

The BEGIN and END properties do not convert to IANA-registered properties in JSContact.

2.4.2.  KIND

The KIND property (
values are those described in
[RFC6473]

[RFC6869]
.

 and

Section 6.1.4 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the kind property (Figure 7). Allowed

Section 6.1.4 of [RFC6350]

 and extended with the values declared in

KIND:individual

"kind": "individual"

Figure 7: KIND Conversion Example

2.4.3.  SOURCE

The SOURCE property (
[RFC9553]
property is set to "entry". The uri property is set to the SOURCE property value.

) in the Card object's directories property (Figure 8). The Directory object's kind

) converts to a Directory object (

Section 6.1.3 of [RFC6350]

Section 2.6.2 of

The PREF and MEDIATYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

SOURCE:https://dir.example.com/addrbook/jdoe/Jean%20Dupont.vcf

"directories": {
   "ENTRY-1": {
     "kind": "entry",
     "uri": "https://dir.example.com/addrbook/jdoe/Jean%20Dupont.vcf"
   }
}

Figure 8: SOURCE Conversion Example

2.4.4.  XML

The XML property (
2.15.1.

Section 6.1.5 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the vCardProps property; see Section

2.5.  Identification Properties

2.5.1.  ANNIVERSARY, BDAY, BIRTHPLACE, DEATHDATE, and DEATHPLACE

The following properties all convert to Anniversary objects in the Card object's anniversaries
property (Figure 9):

•

ANNIVERSARY (

Section 6.2.6 of [RFC6350]

)

•

BDAY (

Section 6.2.5 of [RFC6350]

)

•

BIRTHPLACE (

Section 2.1 of [RFC6474]

)

•

DEATHDATE (

Section 2.3 of [RFC6474]

)

•

DEATHPLACE (

Section 2.2 of [RFC6474]

)

BDAY and BIRTHPLACE convert to an Anniversary object (
date and place properties set. The kind property is set to "birth".

Section 2.8.1 of [RFC9553]

) having the

DEATHDATE and DEATHPLACE convert to an Anniversary object having the date and place
properties set. The Anniversary object's kind property is set to "death".

ANNIVERSARY converts to the Anniversary object's date property. The Anniversary object's kind
property is set to "wedding".

If the BIRTHPLACE or DEATHPLACE property value is of type URI using the "geo:" URI scheme,
then it converts to the Address object's coordinates property. If the value type is TEXT, then it
converts to the Address object's full property. Otherwise, it converts to the vCardProps property;
see Section 2.15.1.

The ALTID and LANGUAGE parameters of both the BIRTHPLACE and DEATHPLACE properties
convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

BDAY:19531015T231000Z
BIRTHPLACE:
 123 Main Street\nAny Town, CA 91921-1234\nU.S.A.
DEATHDATE:19960415
DEATHPLACE:
 5 Court Street\nNew England, ND 58647\nU.S.A.
ANNIVERSARY:19860201

"anniversaries": {
  "ANNIVERSARY-1" : {
    "kind": "birth",
    "date": {
      "@type": "Timestamp",
      "utc": "1953-10-15T23:10:00Z"
    },
    "place": {
      "full":
         "123 Main Street\nAny Town, CA 91921-1234\nU.S.A."
    }
  },
  "ANNIVERSARY-2" : {
    "kind": "death",
    "date": {
      "year": 1996,
      "month": 4,
      "year": 15
    },
    "place": {
      "full": "5 Court Street\nNew England, ND 58647\nU.S.A."
    }
  },
  "ANNIVERSARY-3" : {
    "kind": "wedding",
    "date": {
      "year": 1986,
      "month": 2,
      "day": 1
    }
  }
}

Figure 9: ANNIVERSARY, BDAY, BIRTHPLACE, DEATHDATE, and DEATHPLACE Conversion
Example

2.5.2.  FN

Section 6.2.1 of [RFC6350]

The FN property (
10). If the LANGUAGE parameter is set, then the FN property converts as outlined in Section
2.3.11. In the unexpected case where the vCard contains more than one FN property without the
LANGUAGE parameter, convert the FN property that has the least parameters. If multiple such
FN properties are present, choose any of them. All other FN properties convert to the
(Section 2.15.1)

) converts to the Name object's full property (Figure

 property.

vCardProps

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

FN:John Q. Public, Esq.

"name": {
  "full": "John Q. Public, Esq."
}

Figure 10: FN Conversion Example

2.5.3.  GENDER

Section 6.2.7 of [RFC6350]

The GENDER property (
property in JSContact. To convert this property, see Section 2.15.1. Alternatively, the Card object's
speakToAs property defines how to address and refer to an individual represented by the Card,
as do the newly defined vCard GRAMGENDER and PRONOUNS properties of

) does not convert to an IANA-registered

[RFC9554]
.

2.5.4.  GRAMGENDER and PRONOUNS

The GRAMGENDER property (
grammaticalGender property (Figure 11).

Section 3.2 of [RFC9554]

) converts to the SpeakToAs object's

The PRONOUNS property (
property (Figure 11).

Section 3.4 of [RFC9554]

) converts to the SpeakToAs object's pronouns

GRAMGENDER:NEUTER
PRONOUNS;PREF=2:they/them
PRONOUNS;PREF=1:xe/xir

"speakToAs": {
  "grammaticalGender": "neuter",
  "pronouns": {
    "PRONOUNS-1": {
      "pronouns": "they/them",
      "pref": 2
    },
    "PRONOUNS-2": {
      "pronouns": "xe/xir",
      "pref": 1
    }
  }
}

Figure 11: GRAMGENDER and PRONOUNS Conversion Example

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.5.5.  N

Section 6.2.2 of [RFC6350]

Section 2.2.1 of [RFC9553]
The N property (
)
in the Card object's name property. Each component in the N property structured value converts
to a NameComponent in the Name object's components property. The following table shows this
relation:

) converts to a Name object (

N component

NameComponent
kind

Remarks

To vCard: add any "surname2" NameComponent to
the Family name component, after all "surname"
values.
From vCard: ignore any value that also occurs in
the Secondary surname component.

To vCard: add any "generation" NameComponent to
the Honorific suffix component.
From vCard: ignore any value that also occurs in
the Generation component.

Family name

surname

Given name

given

Additional
name

Honorific
prefix

Honorific
suffix

given2

title

credential

Secondary
surname

surname2

Generation

generation

Table 1: N Components Conversion

JSCOMPS (Section 3.3.1)

If the
 parameter is set, then the Name object's isOrdered property value
is "true", and the defaultSeparator property and any "separator" NameComponent objects are set
according to the parameter value. The order in the components property
order of the JSCOMPS parameter value.

 adhere to the

MUST

If the JSCOMPS parameter is not set, then the Name object's isOrdered property value is "false",
and the defaultSeparator property
MUST NOT
follow the order of values in the N structured value when read from left to right.

 be set. The order in the components property

MUST

If the SORT-AS parameter is set, then its structured value converts to the Name object's sortAs
property according to Table 1. An empty or non-existent component value indicates that no sort
is defined for this kind.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

N;SORT-AS="Stevenson,John Philip":
 Stevenson;John;Philip,Paul;Dr.;Jr.,M.D.,A.C.P.;;Jr.

"name": {
  "components":[
    { "kind": "surname", "value": "Stevenson" },
    { "kind": "given", "value": "John" },
    { "kind": "given2", "value": "Philip" },
    { "kind": "given2", "value": "Paul" },
    { "kind": "title", "value": "Dr." },
    { "kind": "credential", "value": "M.D." },
    { "kind": "credential", "value": "A.C.P." },
    { "kind": "generation", "value": "Jr." }
  ],
  "sortAs": {
    "surname": "Stevenson",
    "given": "John Philip"
  }
}

Figure 12: N Conversion Example

See Section 3.3.1 for examples of using the JSCOMPS parameter for vCard-structured property
values.

2.5.6.  NICKNAME

The NICKNAME property (
of [RFC9553]
NICKNAME property value.

Section 2.2.2
) in the Card object's nicknames property (Figure 13). The name property is set to the

) converts to a Nickname object (

Section 6.2.3 of [RFC6350]

The PREF and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

NICKNAME:Johnny

"nicknames": {
   "NICK-1": {
    "name": "Johnny"
   }
}

Figure 13: NICKNAME Conversion Example

2.5.7.  PHOTO

The PHOTO property (
[RFC9553]
set to "photo" and the uri property is set to the PHOTO value.

Section 6.2.4 of [RFC6350]

) in the Card object's media property (Figure 14). The Media object's kind property is

) converts to a Media object (

Section 2.6.4 of

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

The PREF and MEDIATYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

PHOTO:https://www.example.com/pub/photos/jqpublic.gif

"media": {
   "PHOTO-1": {
     "kind": "photo",
     "uri": "https://www.example.com/pub/photos/jqpublic.gif"
   }
}

Figure 14: PHOTO Conversion Example

2.6.  Delivery Addressing Properties

2.6.1.  ADR

The ADR property (
[RFC9553]
property value converts to an AddressComponent in the Address object's components property.

) in the Card object's addresses property. Each component in the ADR-structured

) converts to an Address object (

Section 6.3.1 of [RFC6350]

Section 2.5.1.1 of

[RFC9554]
new components, even if all their values are the empty string.

 defines new components for the ADR property. Implementations

SHOULD

 set these

The following table shows how the ADR component and AddressComponent kind relate:

ADR
component

AddressComponent
kind

Remarks

post office
box

postOfficeBox

 recommends that this component not be

[RFC6350]
set, but this is now disputable given the new
components. Instead, set this component and use
[RFC9554]
.
the new ADR value format defined in

extended
address

apartment

To vCard: set the values of the following
components:
room

•

•

floor

•

apartment

•

building

From vCard: ignore if the ADR structured value is of
[RFC9554]
the format defined in
. Otherwise, convert
to "apartment".

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

ADR
component

AddressComponent
kind

Remarks

street
address

name

To vCard: set the values of the following
components:
number

•

•

name

•

block

•

direction

•

landmark

•

subdistrict

•

district

From vCard: ignore if the ADR structured value is of
[RFC9554]
. Otherwise, convert
the format defined in
to "name".

locality

locality

region

region

postal code

postcode

apartment

apartment

Defined in

[RFC9554]
.

block

block

Defined in

[RFC9554]
.

building

building

Defined in

[RFC9554]
.

direction

direction

Defined in

[RFC9554]
.

district

district

Defined in

[RFC9554]
.

floor

floor

Defined in

[RFC9554]
.

landmark

landmark

Defined in

[RFC9554]
.

room

room

Defined in

[RFC9554]
.

street
number

number

Defined in

[RFC9554]
.

subdistrict

subdistrict

Defined in

[RFC9554]
.

Table 2: ADR Components Conversion

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

JSCOMPS (Section 3.3.1)

If the
value is "true", and the defaultSeparator property and any separator name components are set
according to the parameter value. The order in the components property
order of the JSCOMPS parameter value.

 parameter is set, then the Address object's isOrdered property

 adhere to the

MUST

If the JSCOMPS parameter is not set, then the Address object's isOrdered property value is "false",
and the defaultSeparator property
MUST
follow the order of values in the ADR structured value when read from left to right.

 be set. The order in the components property

MUST NOT

The LABEL parameter converts to the Address object's full property.

The GEO parameter converts to the Address object's coordinates property.

The TZ parameter converts to the Address object's timeZone property.

The CC parameter converts to the Address object's countryCode property.

The PREF and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3. The ADR-
specific values of the TYPE parameter defined in Sections 5.1 and 5.2 of
corresponding entries of the contexts property as defined in

Section 2.5.1 of [RFC9553]
.

[RFC9554]

 convert to the

The ALTID and LANGUAGE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.
Each possible language-dependent alternative converts to an entry of the PatchObject where the
key references the full property.

ADR;TYPE=work;CC=US:
 ;;54321 Oak St;Reston;VA;20190;USA;;;;54321;Oak St;;;;;;

"addresses": {
  "ADDR-1" : {
    "contexts": { "work": true },
    "components": [
      { "kind": "number", "value": "54321" },
      { "kind": "name", "value": "Oak St" },
      { "kind": "locality", "value": "Reston" },
      { "kind": "region", "value": "VA" },
      { "kind": "postcode", "value": "20190" },
      { "kind": "country", "value": "USA" }
    ],
    "countryCode": "US"
  }
}

Figure 15: ADR Conversion Example

See Section 3.3.1 for examples of using the JSCOMPS parameter for vCard-structured property
values.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.7.  Communications Properties

2.7.1.  EMAIL

The EMAIL property (
2.3.1 of [RFC9553]
address property is set to the EMAIL value.

Section 6.4.2 of [RFC6350]

Section
) in the Card object's emails property (Figure 16). The EmailAddress object's

) converts to an EmailAddress object (

The PREF and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

EMAIL;TYPE=work:jqpublic@xyz.example.com
EMAIL;PREF=1:jane_doe@example.com

"emails": {
  "EMAIL-1": {
    "contexts": { "work": true },
    "address": "jqpublic@xyz.example.com"
  },
  "EMAIL-2": {
    "address": "jane_doe@example.com",
    "pref": 1
  }
}

Figure 16: EMAIL Conversion Example

2.7.2.  IMPP

The IMPP property (
of [RFC9553]
is set to "impp", and the uri property is set to the IMPP value.

Section 2.3.2
) in the Card object's onlineServices property (Figure 17). The vCardName property

) converts to an OnlineService object (

Section 6.4.3 of [RFC6350]

The SERVICE-TYPE, USERNAME, PREF, and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules
defined in Section 2.3.

IMPP;PREF=1:xmpp:alice@example.com

"onlineServices": {
  "OS-1": {
    "uri": "xmpp:alice@example.com",
    "pref": 1,
    "vCardName": "impp"
  }
}

Figure 17: IMPP Conversion Example

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.7.3.  LANG

The LANG property (
of [RFC9553]
value converts to the LanguagePref object's language property value.

Section 2.3.4
) in the Card object's preferredLanguages property (Figure 18). The LANG property

) converts to a LanguagePref object (

Section 6.4.4 of [RFC6350]

The PREF and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

LANG;TYPE=work;PREF=1:en
LANG;TYPE=work;PREF=2:fr
LANG;TYPE=home:fr

"preferredLanguages": {
  "LANG-1": {
    "language": "en",
    "contexts": { "work": true },
    "pref": 1
  },
  "LANG-2": {
    "language": "fr",
    "contexts": { "work": true },
    "pref": 2
  },
  "LANG-3": {
    "language": "fr",
    "contexts": { "private": true }
  }
}

Figure 18: LANG Conversion Example

2.7.4.  LANGUAGE

The LANGUAGE property (
property (Figure 19).

Section 3.3 of [RFC9554]

) converts to the Card object's language

LANGUAGE:de-AT

"language": "de-AT"

Figure 19: LANGUAGE Conversion Example

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.7.5.  SOCIALPROFILE

Section 3.5 of [RFC9554]

The SOCIALPROFILE property (
Section 2.3.2 of [RFC9553]
(
vCardName property is set to "socialprofile", or it can be omitted. If the SOCIALPROFILE property
value is of type URI, then the OnlineService object's uri property is set; otherwise, the user
property is set.

) in the Card object's onlineServices property (Figure 20). The

) converts to an OnlineService object

The SERVICE-TYPE, USERNAME, PREF, and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules
defined in Section 2.3.

SOCIALPROFILE;SERVICE-TYPE=Mastodon:https://example.com/@foo

"onlineServices": {
  ...
  "OS-1": {
    "service": "Mastodon",
    "uri": "https://example.com/@foo"
  }
}

Figure 20: SOCIALPROFILE Conversion Example

2.7.6.  TEL

The TEL property (
[RFC9553]

) in the Card object's phones property (Figure 21).

Section 6.4.1 of [RFC6350]

) converts to a Phone object (

Section 2.3.3 of

The TEL-specific values of the TYPE parameter convert to the features property keys as outlined
in Table 3. Note that
default Phone features property is absent by default. Accordingly, an implementation
only set the Phone object's features property if the TEL property actually has a TEL-specific TYPE
parameter set.

 defines the default type to be "voice", but the

Section 6.4.1 of [RFC6350]

SHOULD

TYPE value

Phone feature

cell

fax

mobile

fax

main-number

main-number

pager

text

pager

text

textphone

textphone

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

TYPE value

Phone feature

video

voice

video

voice

Table 3: TEL TYPE Conversion

The value of the TEL property converts to the Phone object's number property.

The PREF and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

TEL;VALUE=uri;PREF=1;TYPE="voice,home":tel:+1-555-555-5555;ext=5555
TEL;VALUE=uri;TYPE=home:tel:+33-01-23-45-67

"phones": {
  "PHONE-1": {
    "contexts": { "private": true },
    "features": { "voice": true },
    "number": "tel:+1-555-555-5555;ext=5555",
    "pref": 1
  },
  "PHONE-2": {
    "contexts": { "private": true },
    "number": "tel:+33-01-23-45-67"
  }
}

Figure 21: TEL Conversion Example

2.8.  Geographical Properties

2.8.1.  GEO

The GEO property (
property (
instance to convert to.

Section 6.5.2 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the Address object's coordinates

Section 2.5.1 of [RFC9553]

). Also see Section 2.8.3 to determine which Address object

2.8.2.  TZ

The TZ property (
[RFC9553]

Section 6.5.1 of [RFC6350]
) in the Card object's addresses property.

) converts an Address object (

Section 2.5.1 of

A value of type TEXT converts to the Address object's timeZone property.

A value of type UTC-OFFSET converts to the Address object's timeZone property if the offset has
zero minutes and the hour offset is between -12 and +14, both inclusively. Note that:

•

If the hour offset is zero, use the time zone name "Etc/UTC".

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

•

Otherwise, construct the time zone name with "Etc/GMT" suffixed with the string
representation of the reversed sign hour offset, including the sign but excluding leading
zeros and minutes. For example, the UTC offset value "-0500" converts to "Etc/GMT+5".

For such property values, also see Section 2.8.3 to determine which Address object instance to
convert to.

Any other value of type UTC-OFFSET or URI does not convert to an IANA-registered property in
JSContact. To convert such property, see Section 2.15.1.

2.8.3.  Combining Geographical Properties

In vCard, the properties ADR, GEO, and TZ occur independently of each other. In JSContact, they
all convert to properties of an Address object. It is implementation-specific if these vCard
properties convert to separate address instances in JSContact or if some or all of them convert to
the same address. That being said, implementations
address for the following cases:

 convert the properties to the same

MUST

•

The GROUP parameter values of the properties match.

•

The GROUP parameters are not set, but they are set on any other ADR, GEO, and TZ
properties.

2.9.  Organizational Properties

2.9.1.  CONTACT-URI

The CONTACT-URI property (
[RFC9553]
"contact" and the uri property is set to the CONTACT-URI property value.

Section 2.1 of [RFC8605]

) in the Card object's links property (Figure 22). The Link object's kind property is set to

) converts to a Link object (

Section 2.6.3 of

The PREF and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

CONTACT-URI;PREF=1:mailto:contact@example.com

"links": {
  "CONTACT-1": {
    "kind": "contact",
    "uri": "mailto:contact@example.com",
    "pref": 1
  }
}

Figure 22: CONTACT-URI Conversion Example

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.9.2.  LOGO

The LOGO property (
[RFC9553]
set to "logo" and the uri property is set to the LOGO property value.

Section 6.6.3 of [RFC6350]

) in the Card object's media property (Figure 23). The Media object's kind property is

) converts to a Media object (

Section 2.6.4 of

The PREF and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

LOGO:https://www.example.com/pub/logos/abccorp.jpg

"media": {
  "LOGO-1": {
    "kind": "logo",
    "uri": "https://www.example.com/pub/logos/abccorp.jpg"
  }
}

Figure 23: LOGO Conversion Example

2.9.3.  MEMBER

The MEMBER property (
property (Figure 24). Each MEMBER property value is a key in the members property. The PREF
parameter (

) converts to the Card object's members

) does not convert to JSContact.

Section 6.6.5 of [RFC6350]

Section 5.3 of [RFC6350]

KIND:group
FN:The Doe family
MEMBER:urn:uuid:03a0e51f-d1aa-4385-8a53-e29025acd8af
MEMBER:urn:uuid:b8767877-b4a1-4c70-9acc-505d3819e519

"kind": "group",
"name": {
  "full": "The Doe family"
},
"uid": "urn:uuid:ab4310aa-fa43-11e9-8f0b-362b9e155667",
"members": {
  "urn:uuid:03a0e51f-d1aa-4385-8a53-e29025acd8af": true,
  "urn:uuid:b8767877-b4a1-4c70-9acc-505d3819e519": true
}

Figure 24: Group Example

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.9.4.  ORG

Section 6.6.4 of [RFC6350]

The ORG property (
[RFC9553]
) in the Card object's organizations property (Figure 25). The Organization object's
name property is set to the ORG property organizational name component. The Organization
object's units property is an array of OrgUnit objects that each contain an organizational unit
name component value of the ORG property value.

) converts to an Organization object (

Section 2.2.3 of

Implementations
name. In this case, the first component of the ORG value
ORG:;DepartmentA).

MAY

 allow representation of organizational units without the organizational

MUST

 be an empty string (e.g.,

The ALTID and LANGUAGE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

The first item of the comma-separated SORT-AS parameter value converts to the sortAs property
of the Organization object. The subsequent items convert to the sortAs property of the
corresponding OrgUnit object.

The TYPE parameter converts according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

ORG;SORT-AS="ABC":ABC\, Inc.;North American Division;Marketing

"organizations": {
  "ORG-1": {
    "name": "ABC, Inc.",
    "units":[
      { "name": "North American Division" },
      { "name": "Marketing" }
    ],
    "sortAs": "ABC"
  }
}

Figure 25: ORG Conversion Example

2.9.5.  RELATED

Section 6.6.6 of [RFC6350]

The RELATED property (
property (Figure 26). The property value converts to the key in the relatedTo property. The TYPE
parameters convert to the Relation object's relation property (
other parameters convert as defined in Section 2.15.2.

) converts to the Card object's relatedTo

Section 2.1.8 of [RFC9553]

). Any

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

RELATED;TYPE=friend:urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6
RELATED;TYPE=contact:https://example.com/directory/john.vcf
RELATED;VALUE=text:Please contact my deputy John for any inquiries.

"relatedTo" : {
  "urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6" : {
    "relation" : {
      "friend" : true
    }
  },
  "https://example.com/directory/john.vcf" : {
    "relation" : {
      "contact" : true
    }
  },
  "Please contact my deputy John for any inquiries." : {
    "relation" : { }
  }
}

Figure 26: RELATED Conversion Example

2.9.6.  TITLE and ROLE

Section 6.6.1 of [RFC6350]

The TITLE (
to a Title object (
Title object's kind property is set to "title" or "role" for the TITLE and ROLE vCard properties,
respectively. The name property is set to the vCard property value.

) in the Card object's titles property (Figure 27). The

Section 6.6.2 of [RFC6350]

Section 2.2.5 of [RFC9553]

) and ROLE (

) properties convert

The value of the organizationId property can be derived if the TITLE or ROLE property is a
member of a vCard property group and if exactly one other ORG property is also a part of that
group.

The ALTID and LANGUAGE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

TITLE:Research Scientist
group1.ROLE:Project Leader
group1.ORG:ABC, Inc.

"titles": {
  "TITLE-1": {
    "kind": "title",
    "name": "Research Scientist"
  },
  "TITLE-2": {
    "kind": "role",
    "name": "Project Leader",
    "organizationId": "ORG-1"
  }
},
"organizations": {
  "ORG-1": {
    "name": "ABC, Inc."
  }
}

Figure 27: TITLE and ROLE Conversion Example

2.10.  Personal Information Properties

2.10.1.  EXPERTISE

The EXPERTISE property (
2.8.4 of [RFC9553]
object's kind property is set to "expertise".

Section 2.1 of [RFC6715]

) converts to a PersonalInfo object (

Section

) in the Card object's personalInfo property (Figure 28). The PersonalInfo

The INDEX and LEVEL parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

EXPERTISE;LEVEL=beginner;INDEX=2:Chinese literature
EXPERTISE;INDEX=1;LEVEL=expert:chemistry

"personalInfo": {
  "PERSINFO-1" : {
    "kind": "expertise",
    "value": "Chinese literature",
     "level": "low",
     "listAs": 2
  },
  "PERSINFO-2" : {
    "kind": "expertise",
    "value": "chemistry",
    "level": "high",
    "listAs": 1
  }
}

Figure 28: EXPERTISE Conversion Example

2.10.2.  HOBBY

The HOBBY property (
[RFC9553]
property is set to "hobby".

Section 2.8.4 of
) in the Card object's personalInfo property (Figure 29). The PersonalInfo object's kind

) converts to a PersonalInfo object (

Section 2.2 of [RFC6715]

The INDEX and LEVEL parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

HOBBY;INDEX=1;LEVEL=high:reading
HOBBY;INDEX=2;LEVEL=high:sewing

"personalInfo": {
  "PERSINFO-1" : {
    "kind": "hobby",
    "value": "reading",
    "level": "high",
    "listAs": 1
  },
  "PERSINFO-2" : {
    "kind": "hobby",
    "value": "sewing",
    "level": "high",
    "listAs": 2
  }
}

Figure 29: HOBBY Conversion Example

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.10.3.  INTEREST

The INTEREST property (
of [RFC9553]
kind property is set to "interest".

Section 2.3 of [RFC6715]

) converts to a PersonalInfo object (

Section 2.8.4

) in the Card object's personalInfo property (Figure 30). The PersonalInfo object's

The INDEX and LEVEL parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

INTEREST;INDEX=1;LEVEL=medium:r&b music
INTEREST;INDEX=2;LEVEL=high:rock&roll music

"personalInfo": {
  "PERSINFO-1" : {
    "kind": "interest",
    "value": "r&b music",
    "level": "medium",
    "listAs": 1
  },
  "PERSINFO-2" : {
    "kind": "interest",
    "value": "rock&roll music",
    "level": "high",
    "listAs": 2
  }
}

Figure 30: INTEREST Conversion Example

2.10.4.  ORG-DIRECTORY

The ORG-DIRECTORY property (
Section 2.6.2 of [RFC9553]
(
object's kind property is set to "directory". The uri property is set to the ORG-DIRECTORY
property value.

) in the Card object's directories property (Figure 31). The Directory

Section 2.4 of [RFC6715] [RFC6715]

 converts to a Directory object

)

The INDEX, PREF, and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

ORG-DIRECTORY;INDEX=1:https://directory.mycompany.example.com
ORG-DIRECTORY;PREF=1:ldap://ldap.tech.example/o=Tech,ou=Engineering

"directories": {
  "DIRECTORY-1": {
    "kind": "directory",
    "uri": "https://directory.mycompany.example.com",
    "listAs": 1
  },
  "DIRECTORY-2": {
    "kind": "directory",
    "uri": "ldap://ldap.tech.example/o=Tech,ou=Engineering",
    "pref": 1
  }
}

Figure 31: ORG-DIRECTORY Conversion Example

2.11.  Explanatory Properties

2.11.1.  CATEGORIES

The CATEGORIES property (
) converts to a set of entries of the Card
object's keywords property (Figure 32). The keys are the comma-separated text values of the
CATEGORIES property.

Section 6.7.1 of [RFC6350]

In this case, the PREF parameter does not have a JSContact counterpart; however, the
implementors

 insert the entries by order of preference.

MAY

CATEGORIES:internet,IETF,Industry,Information Technology

"keywords": {
  "internet": true,
  "IETF": true,
  "Industry": true,
  "Information Technology": true
}

Figure 32: CATEGORIES Conversion Example

2.11.2.  CLIENTPIDMAP

The CLIENTPIDMAP property (
2.15.1)

 property.

Section 6.7.7 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the

vCardProps (Section

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.11.3.  CREATED

The CREATED property (
(Figure 33).

Section 3.1 of [RFC9554]

) converts to the Card object's created property

CREATED:19940930T143510Z

"created": "1994-09-30T14:35:10Z"

Figure 33: CREATED Conversion Example

2.11.4.  NOTE

The NOTE property (
[RFC9553]

Section 6.7.2 of [RFC6350]
) in the Card object's notes property (Figure 34).

) converts to a Note object (

Section 2.8.3 of

The ALTID and LANGUAGE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

NOTE;CREATED=20221123T150132Z;AUTHOR-NAME="John":
  Office hours are from 0800 to 1715 EST\, Mon-Fri.

"notes": {
  "NOTE-1" : {
     "note": "Office hours are from 0800 to 1715 EST, Mon-Fri.",
     "created": "2022-11-23T15:01:32Z",
     "author": {
       "name": "John"
     }
  }
}

Figure 34: NOTE Conversion Example

2.11.5.  PRODID

The PRODID property (
(Figure 35).

Section 6.7.3 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the Card object's prodId property

PRODID:ACME Contacts App version 1.23.5

"prodId": "ACME Contacts App version 1.23.5"

Figure 35: PRODID Conversion Example

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.11.6.  REV

The REV property (
(Figure 36).

Section 6.7.4 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the Card object's updated property

REV:19951031T222710Z

"updated": "1995-10-31T22:27:10Z"

Figure 36: REV Conversion Example

2.11.7.  SOUND

The SOUND property (
[RFC9553]
set to "sound" and the uri property is set to the SOUND value.

Section 6.7.5 of [RFC6350]

) in the Card object's media property (Figure 37). The Media object's kind property is

) converts to a Media object (

Section 2.6.4 of

The PREF and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

SOUND:CID:JOHNQPUBLIC.19960229T080000.xyzMail@example.com

"media": {
  ...
  "SOUND-1": {
    "kind": "sound",
    "uri": "CID:JOHNQPUBLIC.19960229T080000.xyzMail@example.com"
  }
}

Figure 37: SOUND Conversion Example

2.11.8.  UID

The UID property (
38).

Section 6.7.6 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the Card object's uid property (Figure

UID:urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6

"uid": "urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6"

Figure 38: UID Conversion Example

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.11.9.  URL

The URL property (
[RFC9553]
the URL value.

Section 6.7.8 of [RFC6350]

) converts to a Link object (

Section 2.6.3 of

) in the Card object's links property (Figure 39). The Link object's uri property is set to

The PREF and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

URL:https://example.org/restaurant.french/~chezchic.html

"links": {
  "LINK-1": {
    "uri": "https://example.org/restaurant.french/~chezchic.html"
  }
}

Figure 39: URL Conversion Example

2.11.10.  VERSION

The VERSION property (
property.

Section 6.7.9 of [RFC6350]

) converts to the

vCardProps (Section 2.15.1)

2.11.11.  X-ABLabel

The X-ABLabel property is experimental but widely in use in existing vCard data. It converts to
the label property of a JSContact object. The X-ABLabel property is preceded by a vCard property
group name, and the label converts to the JSContact object, which was converted from a vCard
property of the same group.

The group name is not preserved; implementations are free to choose any unique group name
when converting back to vCard. For an example on how to preserve the group name, see Section
2.3.9.

item1.TEL;VALUE=uri:tel:+1-555-555-5555
item1.X-ABLabel:foo

"phones": {
  "p1": {
    "number": "tel:+1-555-555-5555",
    "label": "foo"
  }
}

Figure 40: X-ABLabel Conversion Example

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.12.  Security Properties

2.12.1.  KEY

The KEY property (
[RFC9553]
property is set to the KEY property value.

Section 6.8.1 of [RFC6350]

) in the Card object's cryptoKeys property (Figure 41). The CryptoKey object's uri

) converts to a CryptoKey object (

Section 2.6.1 of

The PREF and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

KEY:https://www.example.com/keys/jdoe.cer

"cryptoKeys": {
  "KEY-1": {
    "uri": "https://www.example.com/keys/jdoe.cer"
  }
}

Figure 41: KEY Conversion Example

2.13.  Calendar Properties

2.13.1.  CALADRURI

The CALADRURI property (
Section 2.4.2 of [RFC9553]
(
SchedulingAddress object's uri property is set to the CALADRURI value.

Section 6.9.2 of [RFC6350]
) converts to a SchedulingAddress object
) in the Card object's schedulingAddresses property (Figure 42). The

The PREF parameter (
2.3.

Section 5.3 of [RFC6350]

) converts according to the rules defined in Section

CALADRURI;PREF=1:mailto:janedoe@example.com
CALADRURI:https://example.com/calendar/jdoe

"schedulingAddresses": {
  "SCHEDULING-1": {
    "uri": "mailto:janedoe@example.com",
    "pref": 1
  },
  "SCHEDULING-2": {
    "uri": "https://example.com/calendar/jdoe"
  }
}

Figure 42: CALADRURI Conversion Example

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

2.13.2.  CALURI

The CALURI property (
[RFC9553]
property is set to "calendar" and the uri property is set to the CALURI value.

) in the Card object's calendars property (Figure 43). The Calendar object's kind

) converts to a Calendar object (

Section 6.9.3 of [RFC6350]

Section 2.4.1 of

The PREF and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

CALURI;PREF=1:https://cal.example.com/calA
CALURI;MEDIATYPE=text/calendar:https://ftp.example.com/calA.ics

"calendars": {
  "CAL-1": {
    "kind": "calendar",
    "uri": "https://cal.example.com/calA",
    "pref": 1
  },
  "CAL-2": {
    "kind": "calendar",
    "uri": "https://ftp.example.com/calA.ics",
    "mediaType": "text/calendar"
  }
}

Figure 43: CALURI Conversion Example

2.13.3.  FBURL

The FBURL property (
[RFC9553]
property is set to "freeBusy" and the uri property is set to the FBURL value.

) in the Card object's calendars property (Figure 44). The Calendar object's kind

) converts to a Calendar object (

Section 6.9.1 of [RFC6350]

Section 2.4.1 of

The PREF and TYPE parameters convert according to the rules defined in Section 2.3.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

FBURL;PREF=1:https://www.example.com/busy/janedoe
FBURL;MEDIATYPE=text/calendar:https://example.com/busy/project-a.ifb

"calendars": {
  "FBURL-1": {
    "kind": "freeBusy",
    "uri": "https://www.example.com/busy/janedoe",
    "pref": 1
  },
  "FBURL-2": {
    "kind": "freeBusy",
    "uri": "https://example.com/busy/project-a.ifb",
    "mediaType": "text/calendar"
  }
}

Figure 44: FBURL Conversion Example

2.14.  Extended Properties and Parameters

Extended properties and parameters convert as specified in Section 2.15.

2.15.  New JSContact Properties

vCards may contain properties or parameters for which no IANA-registered JSContact property is
defined. For example, a vCard may contain properties and parameters of which the semantics or
purposes are unknown to the implementation; see

Section 6.10 of [RFC6350]
.

This section defines JSContact properties by which such vCard properties and parameters
represented in JSContact. Implementations
MAY
more appropriate.

MAY
 choose to convert differently if they deem that

 be

2.15.1.  vCardProps

vCardProps: JCardProp[] (optional).

Contains vCard properties that are set in the vCard

represented by this JSContact object. The JCardProp type denotes a jCard-encoded vCard
property as defined in

Section 3.3 of [RFC7095]

.

Example:

This illustrates how to convert a vCard extension property:

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

item1.X-FOO;X-BAR=Hello:World!

"vCardProps": [
  ["x-foo", {
    "x-bar": "Hello",
    "group": "item1"
  }, "unknown", "World!"]
]

Figure 45: JSContact vCardProps Example

2.15.2.  vCardParams

vCardParams: String[String|String[]] (optional).

Contains vCard parameters that are set on the

vCard property represented by this JSContact object. The value
containing vCard property parameters as defined in
represents a parameter of the vCard property that converts to the JSContact object.

Section 3.3 of [RFC7095]

 be a JSON object

MUST

. Each entry

Example:

This illustrates how to convert a vCard extension parameter:

EMAIL;X-FOO=Bar:jane_doe@example.com

"emails": {
  "email1": {
    "address": "jane_doe@example.com",
    "vCardParams": {
      "x-foo": "Bar"
    }
  }
}

Figure 46: JSContact vCardParams Example

2.15.3.  vCardName

vCardName: String (optional).

Contains the name of the vCard element that is represented by

this JSContact object. For example, this allows to preserve the name of a vCard property when
multiple vCard properties convert the same JSContact type. The case-insensitive value
be valid according to the "name" ABNF defined in

Section 3.3 of [RFC6350]

MUST

.

Example:

Both vCard IMPP and SOCIALPROFILE convert to an OnlineService object (

Section

2.3.2 of [RFC9553]
source element was IMPP as follows:

) in JSContact. The vCardName property value indicates that the vCard

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

IMPP:xmpp:alice@example.com

"onlineServices": {
  "os1": {
    "uri": "xmpp:alice@example.com",
    "vCardName": "impp"
  },
}

Figure 47: JSContact vCardName Example

3.  Converting JSContact to vCard

3.1.  Conversion Rules

A Card object converts to vCard by applying the reverse rules of converting vCard to JSContact. In
addition to those listed in Appendix A, the following rules apply:

•

Multivalued JSContact properties convert to separate instances of their equivalent vCard
property, and each of the PROP-ID parameters
converted value (see Section 2.3.18).

 be set to the Id-typed key of the

MUST

•

The full property of the name property in JSContact is optional, but the FN property is
mandatory in vCard. The following rules apply:

MUST

 use its value for the

◦
If the Name object's full property is set, then implementations
vCard FN property.
◦
If the Name object's full property is not set, then implementations
name from the Name object's components property values. If the isOrdered property is
"true", then this can be done by concatenating the name component values. Otherwise, or
alternatively, an implementation can choose any other heuristic to generate the full name
from its components such as
 set the DERIVED
parameter on the FN property.
◦
Otherwise, the FN property

 be set to the empty value.

[CLDRPersonName]

. Implementations

 derive the full

SHOULD

MUST

MUST

•

Vendor-specific and unknown properties convert to vCard as outlined in Section 3.1.1.

3.1.1.  Converting Unknown Properties

JSContact objects may contain properties for which no IANA-registered vCard property is
defined. For example, a JSContact object may contain vendor-specific properties of which the
semantics or purpose are unknown.

This specification defines the new
vCard parameter by which such JSContact properties
Implementations

MAY
 choose to convert differently if they deem that more appropriate.

 be represented in vCard.

JSPROP (Section 3.2.1)

 vCard property and

MAY

JSPTR (Section 3.3.2)

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

3.2.  New vCard Properties

3.2.1.  JSPROP

Property name:

JSPROP

Purpose:

Represents a JSContact property in vCard.

Value type:

TEXT; also see "Format definition" below for value restrictions.

Conformance:

Can be specified multiple times in a vCard.

Property parameters:

 be set for this property. Other IANA-
registered and experimental property parameters can be specified on this property.

The JSPTR parameter

MUST

Description:

This property converts an arbitrary JSContact property from and to vCard. The

vCard property value is the JSON-encoded value of the JSContact property, represented as a
TEXT value. The format of the JSON value
MUST
Section 2 of [RFC8259]
whitespace as defined in
the JSContact property within the Card.

 be compact, e.g., without insignificant
. The value of the JSPTR parameter points to

The root of the JSON pointer is always the Card object that this vCard converts to, irrespective
if the JSON pointer starts with the SOLIDUS (U+002F) character. The pointer
reference into an array.

MUST NOT

All JSPROP properties in a vCard together form a PatchObject as defined in
value of its JSPTR parameter corresponds to a key in the PatchObject; the value of the JSPROP
property corresponds to the value for that key. When converting from vCard to JSContact, the
PatchObject
converted. The PatchObject
PatchObject

 only be applied after all other vCard properties have already been

 be valid, including the restriction that an invalid

MUST
 be applied.

[RFC9553]

MUST NOT

MUST

. The

Format definition:

This property is defined by the following notation:

jsprop = "JSPROP" jsprop-param ":" TEXT

jsprop-param  = *(
            ; The following are REQUIRED and MUST NOT
            ; occur more than once
            ( ";" jsptr-param ) /    ; see next section
            ( ";" "VALUE" "=" "TEXT")
            ;
            ; The following is OPTIONAL
            ; and MAY occur more than once.
            ;
            (";" other-param)
            ;
            )

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

Example(s):

This illustrates how to convert a property at the top level in a Card object that is

unknown to the implementation.

"someUnknownProperty": true

JSPROP;JSPTR="someUnknownProperty":true

Figure 48: Unknown Property Example

This illustrates how to convert a vendor-specific property at the top level of a Card object.
Note the required use of quoted string for the JSPTR value, which allows the path to include
the COLON (U+003A) character.

"example.com:foo": {
  "bar": 1234
}

JSPROP;JSPTR="example.com:foo":{"bar":1234}

Figure 49: Vendor-Specific Property Conversion Example

This illustrates how to convert a vendor-specific property at a nested level in a Card object
using a path relative to the Card object. Although not recommended, the property name
includes the SOLIDUS (U+002F) character, which requires escaping in the JSON pointer.

"phones": {
  "phone1": {
    "number": "tel:+33-01-23-45-67",
    "example.com:foo/bar": "tux hux"
  }
}

TEL:tel:+33-01-23-45-67
JSPROP;JSPTR="phones/phone1/example.com:foo~1bar":
 "tux hux"

Figure 50: Nested Vendor-Specific Property Example with a Path Relative to Card

3.3.  New vCard Parameters

3.3.1.  JSCOMPS

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

Parameter name:

JSCOMPS

Purpose:

Defines the order and separators for the elements of a structured property value.

Description:

The JSCOMPS parameter value facilitates converting name and address

components between JSContact and vCard. It preserves the order of the components of the
JSContact property and contains the verbatim values of separator components.

If this parameter is set and its value is valid (see later), then implementations
isOrdered property of the Name or Address object to "true". Otherwise, they
isOrdered property value to "false".

MUST

 set the

MUST

 set the

The JSCOMPS parameter value is a structured type value. Its value
parameter value consists of a sequence of entries, separated by the SEMICOLON character
(U+003B). The first entry defines the value of the defaultSeparator property. If it is the empty
string, then no default separator is defined. Otherwise, the first entry
entry. All following entries processed in order result in an ordered list of JSContact
components and

 be one of the following two kinds:

 be quoted. The

 be a separator

MUST

MUST

MUST

1.

A positional. This refers to a component value in the vCard structured value. A position
consists of the numeric index of a component in the structured value, optionally followed
by a COMMA (U+002C) character and the non-zero index of a value within that
component. The zero index selects the first component or value, respectively. The second
index is zero by default, in which case it
MUST

 be omitted (as well as the leading COMMA).

The resulting JSContact component is formed by determining its kind by the position in
the vCard structured value. The component value is the verbatim value of the vCard
component. Figures 51 and 52 illustrate this by example.

2.

A separator. This contains the verbatim value of a separator component. It starts with the
LATIN SMALL LETTER S (U+0073) character, followed by the COMMA (U+002C) character,
followed by zero or more "param-value" characters (see
), where
 be escaped according
the COMMA (U+002C) and SEMICOLON (U+003B) characters
to the rules defined in

. Figure 53 illustrates this by example.

Section 3.3 of [RFC6350]

Section 3.4 of [RFC6350]

MUST

The resulting JSContact component is formed by setting its kind to "separator" and its
value to the verbatim value of the entry.

A JSCOMPS parameter value is valid if and only if:

•

All indexes in the positional entries refer to an existing component value in the vCard
property value.

•

The count of positional entries equals the count of deduplicated component values.
Deduplication is required because some values may occur in both their designated and
backwards-compatible components in the vCard property value:

◦
A value that occurs in both the N property secondary surname component and the
family name component only counts once.
◦
A value that occurs in both the N property generation component and the honorific
suffix component only counts once.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

◦
A value in the ADR property street address component does not count if the ADR
property value contains a value in one of the new components defined in
◦
All other values count once each.

[RFC9554]

.

Format definition:

jscomps-param      = "JSCOMPS" "=" DQUOTE [jscomps-entry-sep ] ";"
                                   jscomps-entrylist DQUOTE

jscomps-entrylist  = jscomps-entry *(";" jscomps-entry)
jscomps-entry      = jscomps-entry-pos / jscomps-entry-sep
jscomps-entry-pos  = 1*DIGIT [ "," 1*DIGIT ]
jscomps-entry-sep  = "s" "," jscomps-entry-verb
jscomps-entry-verb = *QSAFE-CHAR ; encode according to RFC 6868

Example(s):

The following example demonstrates the use of positional entries for the name

"Jane Doe". The given name is ordered before the surname. No secondary index is required
for either positional because both are zero.

"name": {
  "components": [
    { "kind": "given", "value": "Jane" },
    { "kind": "surname", "value": "Doe" }
  ],
  "isOrdered": true
}

N;JSCOMPS=";1;0":Doe;Jane;;;;;;
FN;DERIVED=TRUE:Jane Doe

Figure 51: Example of a Secondary Positional Index

The following example demonstrates a secondary positional index. The "Jr." generation
marker only counts once because it occurs in both the designated generation component and
the backwards-compatible honorific suffixes component.

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

"name": {
  "components": [
    { "kind": "given", "value": "John" },
    { "kind": "given2", "value": "Philip" },
    { "kind": "given2", "value": "Paul" },
    { "kind": "surname", "value": "Stevenson" },
    { "kind": "generation", "value": "Jr." },
    { "kind": "credential", "value": "M.D." }
  ],
  "isOrdered": true
}

N;JSCOMPS=";1;2;2,1;0;6;4,1":
 Stevenson;John;Philip,Paul;;Jr.,M.D.;;Jr.

Figure 52: Example of Positional Entries

The following example demonstrates the use of separator entries for the (shortened for
brevity) address "54321 Oak St, Reston". The first entry defines the default separator to be ", ".
The second and fourth positional entries are separated with the separator value " ". For
backwards compatibility, the street address component of the ADR property contains both the
street number and name, but it is not referred to in the JSCOMPS parameter and does not
contribute to the count of values.

"addresses": {
  "a1": {
    "components": [
      { "kind": "number", "value": "54321" },
      { "kind": "separator", "value": " " },
      { "kind": "name", "value": "Oak St" },
      { "kind": "locality", "value": "Reston" }
    ],
    "defaultSeparator": ", ",
    "isOrdered": true
  }
}

ADR;JSCOMPS="s,\, ;11;s, ;10;3":
 ;;54321 Oak St;Reston;;;;;;;Oak St;54321;;;;;;

Figure 53: Example of Separator Entries

3.3.2.  JSPTR

Parameter name:

JSPTR

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

Purpose:

This parameter is set on a

JSPROP (Section 3.2.1)

 property. Its value is a JSON pointer

[RFC6901]

 that points to the JSContact property that has the value of the JSPROP property.

Description:

This parameter has a single value that
[RFC6901]
. Note that the value
[RFC6350]
.

MUST

MUST

 be a valid JSON pointer as defined in

 be quoted according to the "param-value" ABNF in

Format definition:

jsptr-param  = "JSPTR" "=" param-value
             ; also see param-value in RFC 6350, Section 3.3

Example(s):

This illustrates a simple example. For further examples, see Section 3.2.1.

JSPROP;JSPTR="example.com:foo":"bar"

4.  Security Considerations

This specification defines how to convert between the JSContact and vCard formats. The security
considerations for parsing and formatting such data apply and are outlined in
[RFC9553]

Section 9 of [RFC6350]
.

Section 4 of

 and

5.  IANA Considerations

5.1.  New vCard Property

IANA has added the following entry to the "vCard Properties" registry, as defined in
of [RFC6350]
.

Section 10.3.1

Namespace

Property

Reference

JSPROP

RFC 9555, Section 3.2.1

Table 4: New vCard Property

5.2.  New vCard Parameter

IANA has added the following entry to the "vCard Parameters" registry, as defined in
10.3.2 of [RFC6350]
.

Section

Namespace

Parameter

Reference

JSPTR

RFC 9555, Section 3.3.2

Table 5: New vCard Parameter

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

5.3.  New JSContact Properties

IANA has added the following entries to the "JSContact Properties" registry. Note that the Since
Version is 1.0, the Until Version is not set, and the Change Controller is IETF for all of these
properties.

Property
Name

Property Type

vCardName

String

Property
Context

Any JSContact
object

Intended
Usage

common

Reference/
Description

RFC 9555, Section
2.15.3

vCardParams

String[String|
String[]]

Any JSContact
object

common

RFC 9555, Section
2.15.2

vCardProps

JCardProp[]

Card

common

RFC 9555, Section
2.15.1

Table 6: JSContact Properties Registry

5.4.  New JSContact Type

IANA has added the following entry to the "JSContact Types" registry. Note that the Since Version
is 1.0, the Until Version is not set, and the Change Controller is IETF for this type.

Type Name

Intended Usage

Reference/Description

JCardProp

common

RFC 9555, Section 2.15.1

Table 7: JSContact Types Registry

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

[RFC5234]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

.

,

,

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

,

, January 2005,

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

,

, January 2008,

<https://

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

[RFC5646]

[RFC6350]

[RFC6473]

[RFC6474]

[RFC6715]

[RFC6869]

[RFC6901]

[RFC7095]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8259]

[RFC9553]

[RFC9554]

 and

Phillips, A., Ed.
5646 DOI 10.17487/RFC5646
,
rfc5646>

.

M. Davis, Ed. "Tags for Identifying Languages" BCP 47 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2009,

,

,

,

Perreault, S. "vCard Format Specification" RFC 6350 DOI 10.17487/RFC6350
,
August 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6350>

,

.

,

Saint-Andre, P. "vCard KIND:application" RFC 6473 DOI 10.17487/RFC6473
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6473>
December 2011,

,

,

.

,

 and
,

Li, K.
Death" RFC 6474 DOI 10.17487/RFC6474
editor.org/info/rfc6474>

,

.

B. Leiba "vCard Format Extensions: Place of Birth, Place and Date of

,

, December 2011,

<https://www.rfc-

,

, and

Cauchie, D. Leiba, B.
Extensions Defined by the Open Mobile Alliance (OMA) Converged Address Book
(CAB) Group" RFC 6715 DOI 10.17487/RFC6715
,
editor.org/info/rfc6715>
.

K. Li "vCard Format Extensions: Representing vCard

<https://www.rfc-

, August 2012,

,

,

Salgueiro, G. Clarke, J.
10.17487/RFC6869

,

, February 2013,

P. Saint-Andre "vCard KIND:device" RFC 6869 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6869>

,

,

.

, and

,

Bryan, P., Ed. Zyp, K.
M. Nottingham, Ed. "JavaScript Object Notation
, and
(JSON) Pointer" RFC 6901 DOI 10.17487/RFC6901
,
editor.org/info/rfc6901>
.

, April 2013,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

Kewisch, P. "jCard: The JSON Format for vCard" RFC 7095 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7095

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7095>

, January 2014,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

, December 2017,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

Stepanek, R.
Data" RFC 9553 DOI 10.17487/RFC9553
,
info/rfc9553>

 and
,

.

M. Loffredo "JSContact: A JSON Representation of Contact
, May 2024,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Stepanek, R.
 and
9554 DOI 10.17487/RFC9554
,
rfc9554>

.

M. Loffredo "vCard Format Extensions for JSContact" RFC

,
, May 2024,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

6.2.  Informative References

[CLDRPersonName]

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

,

Davis, M. Edberg, P. Gillam, R. Kolisnychenko, A. McKenna, M.
,
committee members "Unicode Locale Data Markup Language (LDML) Part 8:
Person Names" Unicode Technical Standard #35 Version 44.1
<https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr35/tr35-personNames.html>

, July 2023,

, and

,
,

,

,

.

,

other CLDR

[RFC8605]

[vOBJECT]

 and

R. Carney "vCard Format Extensions: ICANN Extensions for
Hollenbeck, S.
the Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP)" RFC 8605 DOI 10.17487/RFC8605
May 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8605>

,

,

,

.

,

, and

Tse, R. Tam, P.
,
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-calconnect-vobject-i18n-00
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-calconnect-vobject-i18n-00>

,
, 8 June 2018,
.

M. Douglass "vObject Internationalization" Work in

,

,

<https://

Appendix A.  Reverse Rules of Converting a vCard to a
JSContact Card

Table 8 lists the relevant document sections for each JSContact type and property.

JSContact Type

Property Name

Relevant Section(s)

Address

Address

Address

Address

Address

Address

Address

Address

Address

Address

Address

Address

Address

Address

@type

not applicable

components

Sections 2.6.1 and 3.3.1

contexts

Section 2.3.22

coordinates

Sections 2.3.8 and 2.8.1

country

Section 2.6.1

countryCode

Section 2.6.1

defaultSeparator

Sections 2.6.1 and 3.3.1

full

Section 2.6.1

isOrdered

Sections 2.6.1 and 3.3.1

locality

Section 2.6.1

phoneticScript

Sections 2.3.15 and 2.3.19

phoneticSystem

Section 2.3.15

postcode

Section 2.6.1

pref

Section 2.3.17

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

JSContact Type

Property Name

Relevant Section(s)

Address

Address

region

Section 2.6.1

timeZone

Sections 2.3.23 and 2.8.2

AddressComponent

phonetic

Section 2.3.15

Anniversary

@type

not applicable

Anniversary

Anniversary

Anniversary

Author

Author

Author

Calendar

Calendar

Calendar

Calendar

Calendar

Calendar

Calendar

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

date

kind

place

@type

name

uri

@type

Section 2.5.1

Section 2.5.1

Section 2.5.1

not applicable

Section 2.3.3

Section 2.3.2

not applicable

contexts

Section 2.3.22

kind

label

Sections 2.13.2 and 2.13.3

Section 2.11.11

mediaType

Section 2.3.14

pref

uri

@type

Section 2.3.17

Sections 2.13.2 and 2.13.3

not applicable

@version

not applicable

addresses

Section 2.6.1

anniversaries

Section 2.5.1

calendars

Sections 2.13.2 and 2.13.3

created

Section 2.11.3

directories

Sections 2.4.3 and 2.10.4

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

JSContact Type

Property Name

Relevant Section(s)

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

Card

emails

Section 2.7.1

keywords

Section 2.11.1

kind

Section 2.4.2

language

Section 2.7.4

links

Sections 2.9.1 and 2.11.9

localizations

Section 2.3.11

media

Sections 2.5.7, 2.9.2, and 2.11.7

members

Section 2.9.3

name

Section 2.5.5

nicknames

Section 2.5.6

notes

Section 2.11.4

onlineServices

Section 2.7.2

organizations

Section 2.9.4

personalInfo

Sections 2.10.1, 2.10.2, and 2.10.3

phones

Section 2.7.6

preferredLanguages

Section 2.7.3

prodId

Section 2.11.5

relatedTo

Section 2.9.5

schedulingAddresses

Section 2.13.1

speakToAs

Section 2.5.4

titles

uid

Section 2.9.6

Section 2.11.8

updated

Section 2.11.6

CryptoKey

@type

not applicable

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

JSContact Type

Property Name

Relevant Section(s)

CryptoKey

contexts

Section 2.3.22

CryptoKey

CryptoKey

kind

label

not applicable

Section 2.11.11

CryptoKey

mediaType

Section 2.3.14

CryptoKey

CryptoKey

pref

uri

Section 2.3.17

Section 2.12.1

Directory

@type

not applicable

Directory

contexts

Section 2.3.22

Directory

Directory

Directory

kind

label

listAs

Sections 2.4.3 and 2.10.4

Section 2.11.11

Section 2.3.10

Directory

mediaType

Section 2.3.14

Directory

Directory

pref

uri

Section 2.3.17

Sections 2.4.3 and 2.10.4

EmailAddress

@type

not applicable

EmailAddress

address

Section 2.7.1

EmailAddress

contexts

Section 2.3.22

EmailAddress

EmailAddress

label

pref

Section 2.11.11

Section 2.3.17

LanguagePref

@type

not applicable

LanguagePref

contexts

Section 2.3.22

LanguagePref

pref

Section 2.3.17

Link

Link

@type

contexts

not applicable

Section 2.3.22

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

JSContact Type

Property Name

Relevant Section(s)

Link

Link

Link

Link

Link

Media

Media

Media

Media

Media

Media

Media

Name

Name

Name

Name

Name

Name

Name

Name

kind

label

Section 2.9.1

Section 2.11.11

mediaType

Section 2.3.14

pref

uri

@type

contexts

kind

label

Section 2.3.17

Sections 2.9.1 and 2.11.9

not applicable

Section 2.3.22

Sections 2.5.7, 2.9.2, and 2.11.7

Section 2.11.11

mediaType

Section 2.3.14

pref

uri

@type

Section 2.3.17

Sections 2.5.7, 2.9.2, and 2.11.7

not applicable

components

Sections 2.5.5 and 3.3.1

defaultSeparator

Sections 2.5.5 and 3.3.1

full

Section 2.5.2

phoneticScript

Sections 2.3.15 and 2.3.19

phoneticSystem

Section 2.3.15

isOrdered

Sections 2.5.5 and 3.3.1

sortAs

Section 2.3.21

NameComponent

@type

not applicable

NameComponent

kind

Section 2.5.5

NameComponent

phonetic

Section 2.3.15

NameComponent

value

Section 2.5.5

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

JSContact Type

Property Name

Relevant Section(s)

Nickname

@type

not applicable

Nickname

contexts

Section 2.3.22

Nickname

Nickname

Note

Note

Note

Note

name

pref

@type

author

created

note

Section 2.5.5

Section 2.3.17

not applicable

Sections 2.3.2 and 2.3.3

Section 2.3.6

Section 2.11.4

OnlineService

@type

not applicable

OnlineService

contexts

Section 2.3.22

OnlineService

OnlineService

label

pref

Section 2.11.11

Section 2.3.17

OnlineService

service

Section 2.3.20

OnlineService

OnlineService

OrgUnit

OrgUnit

OrgUnit

Organization

uri

user

@type

name

sortAs

@type

Sections 2.7.2 and 2.7.5

Section 2.3.24

not applicable

Section 2.9.4

Section 2.3.21

not applicable

Organization

contexts

Section 2.3.22

Organization

name

Section 2.9.4

Organization

sortAs

Section 2.3.21

Organization

units

Section 2.9.4

PartialDate

@type

not applicable

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

JSContact Type

Property Name

Relevant Section(s)

PartialDate

calendarScale

Section 2.3.4

PartialDate

day

Section 2.2.2

PartialDate

month

Section 2.2.2

PartialDate

PatchObject

PersonalInfo

PersonalInfo

PersonalInfo

PersonalInfo

PersonalInfo

Phone

Phone

Phone

Phone

Phone

Phone

Pronouns

year

@type

@type

kind

listAs

level

value

@type

contexts

features

label

number

pref

@type

Section 2.2.2

not applicable

not applicable

Sections 2.10.1, 2.10.2, and 2.10.3

Section 2.3.10

Section 2.3.13

Sections 2.10.1, 2.10.2, and 2.10.3

not applicable

Section 2.3.22

Section 2.7.6

Section 2.11.11

Section 2.7.6

Section 2.3.17

not applicable

Pronouns

contexts

Section 2.3.22

Pronouns

pref

Section 2.3.17

Pronouns

pronouns

Section 2.5.4

Relation

Relation

Resource

@type

relation

@type

not applicable

Section 2.9.5

not applicable

SchedulingAddress @type

not applicable

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

JSContact Type

Property Name

Relevant Section(s)

SchedulingAddress

contexts

Section 2.3.22

SchedulingAddress

label

Section 2.11.11

SchedulingAddress

pref

Section 2.3.17

SchedulingAddress

uri

Section 2.13.1

SpeakToAs

@type

not applicable

SpeakToAs

grammaticalGender

Section 2.5.4

SpeakToAs

pronouns

Section 2.5.4

AddressComponent @type

not applicable

AddressComponent

kind

AddressComponent

value

Section 2.6.1

Section 2.6.1

Timestamp

@type

not applicable

Timestamp

utc

Section 2.2.2

Title

Title

Title

Title

@type

kind

name

not applicable

Section 2.9.6

Section 2.9.6

organizationId

Section 2.9.6

Table 8: Conversion Rules for JSContact Types and Properties

Acknowledgements

The definition and examples of the
parameters are based on the initial draft version of

PHONETIC (Section 2.3.15)
 and
[vOBJECT]
.

SCRIPT (Section 2.3.19)

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 9555

JSContact: Converting from and to vCard

May 2024

Authors' Addresses

Mario Loffredo
IIT-CNR/Registro.it
Via Moruzzi, 1
56124 Pisa
Italy
Email:
URI:

 mario.loffredo@iit.cnr.it

 https://www.iit.cnr.it

Robert Stepanek
Fastmail
PO Box 234
Collins St. West
Melbourne VIC 8007
Australia
Email:
URI:

 rsto@fastmailteam.com
 https://www.fastmail.com

Loffredo & Stepanek

Standards Track

Page 60

