Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9384
Standards Track
March 2023
2070-1721
J. Haas
Juniper Networks

RFC 9384
A BGP Cease NOTIFICATION Subcode for
Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)

Abstract

The Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) protocol (RFC 5880) is used to detect loss of
connectivity between two forwarding engines, typically with low latency. BFD is leveraged by
routing protocols, including the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP), to bring down routing protocol
connections more quickly than the original protocol timers.

This document defines a subcode for the BGP Cease NOTIFICATION message (Section 6.7 of RFC
4271) for use when a BGP connection is being closed due to a BFD session going down.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9384
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Haas

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9384

BGP Cease NOTIFICATION Subcode for BFD

March 2023

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  BFD Cease NOTIFICATION Subcode

4.  Operational Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

The Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD) protocol
connectivity between two forwarding engines, typically with low latency. BFD is utilized as a
service for various clients, including routing protocols, to provide an advisory mechanism for
those clients to take appropriate actions when a BFD session goes down
typically used by the clients to trigger closure of their connections more quickly than the original
protocol timers might allow.

 is used to detect loss of

[RFC5880]

[RFC5882]

. This is

[RFC4271]
Border Gateway Protocol version 4 (BGP-4)
Timer expiration when the speaker does not receive a BGP message within the negotiated Hold
Time interval. As per Sections 4.2 and 4.4 of
least three seconds, unless KEEPALIVE processing has been disabled by negotiating the
distinguished Hold Time of zero.

, the minimum Hold Time interval is at

 terminates its connections upon Hold

[RFC4271]

If a BGP speaker desires to have its connections terminate more quickly than the negotiated BGP
Hold Timer can accommodate upon loss of connectivity with a neighbor, the BFD protocol can be
relied upon by BGP speakers to supply that faster detection. When the BFD session state changes
to Down, the BGP speaker terminates the connection with a Cease NOTIFICATION message sent
to the neighbor, if possible, and then closes the TCP connection for the session.

Haas

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9384

BGP Cease NOTIFICATION Subcode for BFD

March 2023

This document defines a subcode, "BFD Down", to be sent with the Cease NOTIFICATION message
that indicates the reason for this type of connection termination.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  BFD Cease NOTIFICATION Subcode

The value 10 has been allocated by IANA for the "BFD Down" Cease NOTIFICATION message
subcode.

When a BGP connection is terminated due to a BFD session going into the Down state, the BGP
speaker
subcode "BFD Down".

 send a NOTIFICATION message with the error code "Cease" and the error

SHOULD

4.  Operational Considerations

A BFD session may go into the Down state when there is only a partial loss of connectivity
between two BGP speakers. Operators using BFD for their BGP connections make choices
regarding what BFD timers are used based upon a variety of criteria -- for example, stability vs.
fast failure.

In the event of a BGP connection being terminated due to a "BFD Down" event from partial loss
of connectivity as detected by BFD, the remote BGP speaker might be able to receive a BGP Cease
NOTIFICATION message with the "BFD Down" subcode. The receiving BGP speaker will then have
an understanding that the connection is being terminated because of a BFD-detected issue and
not an issue with the BGP speaker.

When there is a total loss of connectivity between two BGP speakers, it may not have been
possible for the Cease NOTIFICATION message to have been sent. Even so, BGP speakers
SHOULD
provide this reason as part of their operational state. Examples include bgpPeerLastError per the
BGP MIB

 and "last-error" per

[BGP-YANG]
.

[RFC4273]

[RFC8538]

When the procedures in
and "Hard Reset" subcode are required, and the BGP connection is being terminated because BFD
has gone into the Down state, the "BFD Down" subcode
Reset's data portion of the NOTIFICATION message.

 for sending a NOTIFICATION message with a "Cease" code

 be encapsulated in the Hard

SHOULD

Haas

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9384

BGP Cease NOTIFICATION Subcode for BFD

March 2023

5.  Security Considerations

[RFC4486]

, this document defines a subcode for the BGP Cease NOTIFICATION message

Similar to
that provides information to aid network operators in correlating network events and
diagnosing BGP peering issues. This subcode is purely informational and has no impact on the
, Sections 6.6 and 6.7.
BGP Finite State Machine beyond that already documented by

[RFC4271]

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned the value 10 from the "BGP Cease NOTIFICATION message subcodes" registry ,
with the name "BFD Down" and a reference to this document.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4271]

[RFC5880]

[RFC5882]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8538]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4

<https://www.rfc-

Katz, D.
 and
10.17487/RFC5880

D. Ward "Bidirectional Forwarding Detection (BFD)" RFC 5880 DOI

,

,

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5880>

.

D. Ward "Generic Application of Bidirectional Forwarding

 and

Katz, D.
Detection (BFD)" RFC 5882 DOI 10.17487/RFC5882
editor.org/info/rfc5882>
.

,

,

,

, June 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Patel, K. Fernando, R. Scudder, J.
BGP Graceful Restart" RFC 8538 DOI 10.17487/RFC8538
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8538>

, and

,
,

.

,

J. Haas "Notification Message Support for

, March 2019,

<https://

7.2.  Informative References

[BGP-YANG]

Jethanandani, M. Patel, K. Hares, S.
,
, and
Gateway Protocol (BGP-4)" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-idr-bgp-
model-16
model-16>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-idr-bgp-

J. Haas "YANG Model for Border

, 1 March 2023,

,
,

,

,

.

Haas

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9384

BGP Cease NOTIFICATION Subcode for BFD

March 2023

[RFC4273]

[RFC4486]

Haas, J., Ed.
 and
4273 DOI 10.17487/RFC4273
,
rfc4273>

.

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "Definitions of Managed Objects for BGP-4" RFC

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Chen, E.
,
 and
DOI 10.17487/RFC4486

V. Gillet "Subcodes for BGP Cease Notification Message" RFC 4486

,

,

, April 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4486>

.

Acknowledgments

Thanks to

Jeff Tantsura

 and

Dale Carder

 for their comments on this document.

Mohamed Boucadair
document.

 provided feedback as part of the Routing Directorate review of this

Bruno Rijsman

In 2006,
 had written a proposal that was substantively similar to this document:
draft-rijsman-bfd-down-subcode. That draft did not progress in the Inter-Domain Routing (IDR)
Working Group at that time. The author of this document was unaware of
when creating this proposal.

's prior work

Bruno

Author's Address

Jeffrey Haas
Juniper Networks
Email:

 jhaas@juniper.net

Haas

Standards Track

Page 5

