Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9875
Standards Track
October 2025
2070-1721
M. Nottingham
Cloudflare

RFC 9875
HTTP Cache Groups

Abstract

This specification introduces a means of describing the relationships between stored responses
in HTTP caches, grouping them by associating a stored response with one or more strings.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9875
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9875

HTTP Cache Groups

October 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Notational Conventions

2.  The Cache-Groups Response Header Field

2.1.  Identifying Grouped Responses

2.2.  Cache Behaviour

2.2.1.  Invalidation

3.  The Cache-Group-Invalidation Response Header Field

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

5

5

6

6

6

[HTTP-CACHING]

HTTP caching
one stored response does not affect that of others. This granularity can make caching more
efficient -- for example, when a page is composed of many assets that have different
requirements for caching.

 operates at the granularity of a single resource; the freshness of

However, there are also cases where the relationship between stored responses could be used to
improve cache efficiency.

For example, it is often necessary to invalidate a set of related resources. This might be because
a state-changing request has side effects on other resources, or it might be purely for
administrative convenience (e.g., "invalidate this part of the site"). Grouping responses together
provides a dedicated way to express these relationships, instead of relying on things like URL
structure.

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9875

HTTP Cache Groups

October 2025

In addition to sharing invalidation events, the relationships indicated by grouping can also be
used by caches to optimise their operation (e.g., to inform the operation of cache eviction
algorithms).

Section 2 introduces a means of describing the relationships between stored responses in HTTP
caches, by associating those responses with one or more groups that reflect those relationships.
It also describes how caches can use that information to apply invalidation events to members
of a group.

Section 3 introduces one new source of such events: an HTTP response header field that allows a
state-changing response to trigger a group invalidation.

These mechanisms operate within a single cache, across the stored responses associated with a
single origin server (see Section 2.1). They do not address the issues of synchronising state
between multiple caches (e.g., in a hierarchy or mesh), nor do they facilitate association of
stored responses from disparate origins.

1.1.  Notational Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This specification uses the following terminology from
Parameter.

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

: List, String, and

2.  The Cache-Groups Response Header Field

The Cache-Groups response header field is a List of Strings (Sections 3.1 and 3.3.3 of
[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]
response belongs to. These Strings are opaque -- while they might have some meaning to the
server that creates them, the cache does not have any insight into their structure or content
(beyond uniquely identifying a group).

). Each member of the List is a value that identifies a group that the

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/javascript
Cache-Control: max-age=3600
Cache-Groups: "scripts"

The ordering of members is not significant. Unrecognised Parameters are to be ignored.

Implementations
characters in each member. Note that generic limitations on HTTP field lengths may constrain
the size of this field value in practice.

 support at least 32 groups in a field value, with up to at least 32

MUST

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9875

HTTP Cache Groups

October 2025

2.1.  Identifying Grouped Responses

Two responses stored in the same cache are considered to belong to the same group when all of
the following conditions are met:

1.

They both contain a Cache-Groups response header field that contains the same String (in
any position in the List), when compared character-by-character (case sensitive).

2.

They both share the same URI origin (per

Section 4.3.1 of [HTTP]

).

2.2.  Cache Behaviour

2.2.1.  Invalidation

A cache that invalidates a stored response
MAY
groups (per Section 2.1) with that response. Note that further grouped invalidations are not
triggered by a grouped invalidation; i.e., this mechanism does not cascade.

 invalidate any stored responses that share

Cache extensions can explicitly strengthen the requirement above. For example, a targeted
cache control header field
invalidate such responses.

 might specify that caches processing it are required to

[TARGETED]

3.  The Cache-Group-Invalidation Response Header Field

The Cache-Group-Invalidation response header field is a List of Strings (Sections 3.1 and 3.3.3 of
[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]
response invalidates, per Section 2.2.1.

). Each member of the List is a value that identifies a group that the

For example, following a POST request that has side effects on two cache groups, the
corresponding response could indicate that stored responses associated with either or both of
those groups should be invalidated with:

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Cache-Group-Invalidation: "eurovision-results", "australia"

The Cache-Group-Invalidation header field
a safe method (e.g., GET; see

Section 9.2.1 of [HTTP]

MUST

).

 be ignored on responses to requests that have

A cache that receives a Cache-Group-Invalidation header field on a response to an unsafe request
 invalidate any stored responses that share groups (per Section 2.1) with any of the listed
MAY
groups.

Cache extensions can explicitly strengthen the requirement above. For example, a targeted
cache control header field
respect the Cache-Group-Invalidation signal.

 might specify that caches processing it are required to

[TARGETED]

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9875

HTTP Cache Groups

October 2025

The ordering of members is not significant. Unrecognised Parameters are to be ignored.

Implementations
characters in each member. Note that generic limitations on HTTP field lengths may constrain
the size of this field value in practice.

 support at least 32 groups in a field value, with up to at least 32

MUST

4.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added the following entries to the "Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Field Name
Registry":

Cache-Groups

Field Name:
Status:
Reference:

permanent

RFC 9875

Cache-Group-Invalidation

Field Name:
Status:
Reference:

permanent

RFC 9875

5.  Security Considerations

This mechanism allows resources that share an origin to invalidate each other. Because of this,
origins that represent multiple parties (sometimes referred to as "shared hosting") might allow
one party to group its resources with those of others or to send signals that have side effects
upon them.

Shared hosts that wish to mitigate these risks can control access to the header fields defined in
this specification.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[HTTP]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

[HTTP-CACHING]

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
,
STD 98 RFC 9111 DOI 10.17487/RFC9111
,
info/rfc9111>

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Caching"
,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9875

HTTP Cache Groups

October 2025

[RFC8174]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

[STRUCTURED-FIELDS]

Nottingham, M.

 and

P. Kamp "Structured Field Values for HTTP" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2024,

,

,

9651 DOI 10.17487/RFC9651
,
rfc9651>

.

6.2.  Informative References

[TARGETED]

Ludin, S. Nottingham, M.
DOI 10.17487/RFC9213

, and
, June 2022,

Y. Wu "Targeted HTTP Cache Control" RFC 9213
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9213>

,

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgements

Thanks to

Stephen Ludin

 for his review and suggestions.

Author's Address

Mark Nottingham
Cloudflare
Melbourne
Australia
Email:
URI:

mnot@mnot.net
https://www.mnot.net/

Nottingham

Standards Track

Page 6

