Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9674
8182
Standards Track
December 2024
2070-1721
J. Snijders
Fastly

RFC 9674
Same-Origin Policy for the RPKI Repository Delta
Protocol (RRDP)

Abstract

This document describes a Same-Origin Policy (SOP) requirement for Resource Public Key
Infrastructure (RPKI) Repository Delta Protocol (RRDP) servers and clients. Application of a SOP
in RRDP client/server communication isolates resources such as Delta and Snapshot files from
different Repository Servers, reducing possible attack vectors. This document updates RFC 8182.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9674
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Snijders

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9674

RRDP Same-Origin Policy

December 2024

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Implications of Cross-Origin Resource Requests in RRDP

3.  Changes to RFC 8182

3.1.  New Requirements for RRDP Repository Servers

3.2.  New Requirements for Relying Parties Using RRDP

4.  Deployability in the Internet's Current RPKI

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

3

3

4

4

4

4

4

5

5

5

This document specifies a Same-Origin Policy (SOP) requirement for RPKI Repository Delta
Protocol (RRDP) servers and clients. The SOP concept is a security mechanism to restrict how a
document loaded from one origin can cause interaction with resources from another origin. See
[RFC6454]
server communication isolates resources such as Delta and Snapshot files from different
Repository Servers, reducing possible attack vectors. Another way to avoid undesirable
implications (as described in Section 2) would be for a future version of RRDP to use relative
URIs instead of absolute URIs. This document updates

 for an overview of the concept of an "origin". Application of a SOP in RRDP client/

[RFC8182]
.

Snijders

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9674

RRDP Same-Origin Policy

December 2024

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Implications of Cross-Origin Resource Requests in RRDP

The first RRDP specification did not explicitly disallow 'cross-origin' URI references from the
Section 3.5.3 of [RFC8182]
Update Notification file (
Snapshot (
) files, and it was silent on the topic of HTTP Redirection
Section 15.4 of [RFC9110]
(

Section 3.5.1 of [RFC8182]

Section 3.5.2 of [RFC8182]

) towards Delta (

).

) and

The implication of cross-origin references in Update Notification files is that one Repository
Server can reference RRDP resources on another Repository Server and in doing so
inappropriately increase the resource consumption for both RRDP clients and the referenced
Repository Server. An adversary could also employ cross-origin HTTP Redirects towards other
Repository Servers, causing similar undesirable behavior.

3.  Changes to RFC 8182

To overcome the issue described in Section 2, RRDP Repository Servers and Clients
Same-Origin Policy to both the URIs referenced in an Update Notification File and any HTTP
Redirects.

MUST

 apply a

3.1.  New Requirements for RRDP Repository Servers

The following checklist items are added to

Section 3.5.1.3 of [RFC8182]
:

NEW

•

The "uri" attribute in the snapshot element and optional delta elements
part of the same origin (i.e., represent the same principal), meaning referenced URIs
MUST
File specified in the referring RRDP SIA AccessDescription.

 have the same scheme, host, and port as the URI for the Update Notification

MUST

 be

•

The Repository Server
 respond with HTTP Redirects towards locations
with an origin different from the origin of the Update Notification File specified in
the referring RRDP SIA AccessDescription.

MUST NOT

3.2.  New Requirements for Relying Parties Using RRDP

The following adds to

Section 3.4.1 of [RFC8182]
:

Snijders

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9674

NEW

RRDP Same-Origin Policy

December 2024

•

MUST

 verify whether the "uri" attributes in the Update

The Relying Party
Notification File are of the same origin as the Update Notification File itself. If this
verification fails, the file
 be rejected and RRDP cannot be used; see Section
3.4.5 for considerations. Implementations
referrals are detected.

 log a message when cross-origin

SHOULD

MUST

•

MUST NOT

 follow HTTP Redirection that results from attempts to

The Relying Party
download Update Notification, Delta, and Snapshot files if the target origin is
different from the origin of the Update Notification File specified in the referring
RRDP SIA AccessDescription. If this verification fails, the RRDP session
rejected and RRDP cannot be used; see Section 3.4.5 for considerations.
Implementations

 log a message when cross-origin redirects are detected.

SHOULD

MUST

 be

4.  Deployability in the Internet's Current RPKI

[rpkiviews]

 archives for the period from April to September 2024, only one RRDP

Analyzing the
server (reached following the Trust Anchor Locators (TALs) of the five Regional Internet
Registries) employed a same-origin HTTP redirect. In the period October 2021 - October 2024 no
RRDP Repository Servers were observed that employed cross-origin URIs in Update Notification
Files.

This means that imposing a requirement for the application of a Same-Origin Policy does not
cause any existing commonly used RRDP Repository Server operations to become non-compliant.

5.  Security Considerations

This document addresses an oversight in the original RRDP specification: Cross-origin requests
are detrimental as they allow one repository operator to increase resource consumption for
other repository operators and RRDP clients.

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Snijders

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9674

RRDP Same-Origin Policy

December 2024

[RFC6454]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8182]

[RFC9110]

Barth, A. "The Web Origin Concept" RFC 6454 DOI 10.17487/RFC6454
,
December 2011,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6454>

,

.

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Bruijnzeels, T. Muravskiy, O. Weber, B.
,
Delta Protocol (RRDP)" RFC 8182 DOI 10.17487/RFC8182
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8182>
.

, and

,

,

R. Austein "The RPKI Repository
, July 2017,

<https://

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[rpkiviews]

Snijders, J. "rpkiviews" <https://www.rpkiviews.org>

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

,

The author wishes to thank
Kock Martin Hoffmann
, and
implementation work. The author wishes to thank
Comstedt Dan Harkins Erik Kline Roman Danyliw

,
 for their helpful feedback, comments, and
Keyur Patel Meral Shirazipour Niclas
, and

,
Éric Vyncke

Theo Buehler Claudio Jeker Alberto Leiva Tim Bruijnzeels Ties de

Mikhail Puzanov

 for their review.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Author's Address

Job Snijders
Fastly
Amsterdam
Netherlands
Email:

job@fastly.com

Snijders

Standards Track

Page 5

