Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9125
Standards Track
August 2021
2070-1721

A. Farrel
Old Dog Consulting

J. Drake
Juniper Networks

E. Rosen
Juniper Networks

K. Patel
Arrcus, Inc.

L. Jalil
Verizon

RFC 9125
Gateway Auto-Discovery and Route Advertisement
for Site Interconnection Using Segment Routing

Abstract

Data centers are attached to the Internet or a backbone network by gateway routers. One data
center typically has more than one gateway for commercial, load-balancing, and resiliency
reasons. Other sites, such as access networks, also need to be connected across backbone
networks through gateways.

This document deﬁnes a mechanism using the BGP Tunnel Encapsulation attribute to allow data
center gateway routers to advertise routes to the preﬁxes reachable in the site, including
advertising them on behalf of other gateways at the same site. This allows segment routing to be
used to identify multiple paths across the Internet or backbone network between diﬀerent
gateways. The paths can be selected for load-balancing, resilience, and quality purposes.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9125

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9125

SR DC Gateways

August 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Site Gateway Auto-Discovery

4.  Relationship to BGP - Link State and Egress Peer Engineering

5.  Advertising a Site Route Externally

6.  Encapsulation

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  Manageability Considerations

9.1.  Relationship to Route Target Constraint

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Data centers (DCs) are critical components of the infrastructure used by network operators to
provide services to their customers. DCs (sites) are interconnected by a backbone network, which
consists of any number of private networks and/or the Internet. DCs are attached to the
backbone network by routers that are gateways (GWs). One DC typically has more than one GW
for various reasons including commercial preferences, load balancing, or resiliency against
connection or device failure.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9125

SR DC Gateways

August 2021

[RFC8402]

) is a protocol mechanism that can be used within a DC as well
Segment Routing (SR) (
as for steering traﬃc that ﬂows between two DC sites. In order for a source site (also known as
an ingress site) that uses SR to load-balance the ﬂows it sends to a destination site (also known as
an egress site), it needs to know the complete set of entry nodes (i.e., GWs) for that egress DC
from the backbone network connecting the two DCs. Note that it is assumed that the connected
set of DC sites and the border nodes in the backbone network on the paths that connect the DC
sites are part of the same SR BGP - Link State (LS) instance (see
traﬃc engineering using SR may be used for these ﬂows.

[RFC9086]

[RFC7752]

) so that

 and

Other sites, such as access networks, also need to be connected across backbone networks
through gateways. For illustrative purposes, consider the ingress and egress sites shown in
Figure 1 as separate Autonomous Systems (ASes) (noting that the sites could be implemented as
part of the ASes to which they are attached, or as separate ASes). The various ASes that provide
connectivity between the ingress and egress sites could each be constructed diﬀerently and use
diﬀerent technologies such as IP; MPLS using global table routing information from BGP; MPLS
IP VPN; SR-MPLS IP VPN; or SRv6 IP VPN. That is, the ingress and egress sites can be connected by
tunnels across a variety of technologies. This document describes how SR Segment Identiﬁers
(SIDs) are used to identify the paths between the ingress and egress sites.

The solution described in this document is agnostic as to whether the transit ASes do or do not
have SR capabilities. The solution uses SR to stitch together path segments between GWs and
through the Autonomous System Border Routers (ASBRs). Thus, there is a requirement that the
GWs and ASBRs are SR capable. The solution supports the SR path being extended into the
ingress and egress sites if they are SR capable.

[SR-INTERCONNECT]

The solution deﬁned in this document can be seen in the broader context of site interconnection
in
. That document shows how other existing protocol elements may be
combined with the solution deﬁned in this document to provide a full system, but it is not a
necessary reference for understanding this document.

Suppose that there are two gateways, GW1 and GW2 as shown in Figure 1, for a given egress site
and that they each advertise a route to preﬁx X, which is located within the egress site with each
setting itself as next hop. One might think that the GWs for X could be inferred from the routes'
next-hop ﬁelds, but typically it is not the case that both routes get distributed across the
backbone: rather only the best route, as selected by BGP, is distributed. This precludes load-
balancing ﬂows across both GWs.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9125

SR DC Gateways

August 2021

      -----------------                    ---------------------
     | Ingress         |                  | Egress     ------   |
     | Site            |                  | Site      |Prefix|  |
     |                 |                  |           |   X  |  |
     |                 |                  |            ------   |
     |       --        |                  |   ---          ---  |
     |      |GW|       |                  |  |GW1|        |GW2| |
      -------++--------                    ----+-----------+-+--
             | \                               |          /  |
             |  \                              |         /   |
             |  -+-------------        --------+--------+--  |
             | ||ASBR|     ----|      |----  |ASBR| |ASBR| | |
             | | ----     |ASBR+------+ASBR|  ----   ----  | |
             | |           ----|      |----                | |
             | |               |      |                    | |
             | |           ----|      |----                | |
             | | AS1      |ASBR+------+ASBR|           AS2 | |
             | |           ----|      |----                | |
             |  ---------------        --------------------  |
           --+-----------------------------------------------+--
          | |ASBR|                                       |ASBR| |
          |  ----               AS3                       ----  |
          |                                                     |
           -----------------------------------------------------

Figure 1: Example Site Interconnection

The obvious solution to this problem is to use the BGP feature that allows the advertisement of
multiple paths in BGP (known as Add-Paths) (
advertised by BGP. However, even if this is done, the identity of the GWs will be lost as soon as
the routes get distributed through an ASBR that will set itself to be the next hop. And if there are
multiple ASes in the backbone, not only will the next hop change several times, but the Add-Paths
technique will experience scaling issues. This all means that the Add-Paths approach is
eﬀectively limited to sites connected over a single AS.

) to ensure that all routes to X get

[RFC7911]

This document deﬁnes a solution that overcomes this limitation and works equally well with a
backbone constructed from one or more ASes using the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute
(
[RFC9012]

) as follows:

When a GW to a given site advertises a route to a preﬁx X within that site, it will include a
Tunnel Encapsulation attribute that contains the union of the Tunnel Encapsulation
attributes advertised by each of the GWs to that site, including itself.

In other words, each route advertised by a GW identiﬁes all of the GWs to the same site (see
Section 3 for a discussion of how GWs discover each other), i.e., the Tunnel Encapsulation
attribute advertised by each GW contains multiple Tunnel TLVs, one or more from each active
GW, and each Tunnel TLV will contain a Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV that identiﬁes the GW
for that Tunnel TLV. Therefore, even if only one of the routes is distributed to other ASes, it will
not matter how many times the next hop changes, as the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute will
remain unchanged.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9125

SR DC Gateways

August 2021

To put this in the context of Figure 1, GW1 and GW2 discover each other as gateways for the
egress site. Both GW1 and GW2 advertise themselves as having routes to preﬁx X. Furthermore,
GW1 includes a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute, which is the union of its Tunnel Encapsulation
attribute and GW2's Tunnel Encapsulation attribute. Similarly, GW2 includes a Tunnel
Encapsulation attribute, which is the union of its Tunnel Encapsulation attribute and GW1's
Tunnel Encapsulation attribute. The gateway in the ingress site can now see all possible paths to
X in the egress site regardless of which route is propagated to it, and it can choose one or balance
traﬃc ﬂows as it sees ﬁt.

2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Site Gateway Auto-Discovery

To allow a given site's GWs to auto-discover each other and to coordinate their operations, the
following procedures are implemented:

•

[RFC4360] MUST
)
MUST

A route target (
below), and its value
constructing a route target are detailed in
x02 route target be used.

 be attached to each GW's auto-discovery route (deﬁned

 be set to a value that indicates the site identiﬁer. The rules for

[RFC4360]

. It is

RECOMMENDED

 that a Type x00 or

•

Site identiﬁers are set through conﬁguration. The site identiﬁers
GWs to the site (i.e., the same identiﬁer is used by all GWs to the same site) and
unique across all sites that are connected (i.e., across all GWs to all sites that are
interconnected).

MUST

 be the same across all
MUST

 be

•

MUST

 construct an import ﬁltering rule to import any route that carries a route

Each GW
target with the same site identiﬁer that the GW itself uses. This means that only these GWs
will import those routes, and that all GWs to the same site will import each other's routes
and will learn (auto-discover) the current set of active GWs for the site.

The auto-discovery route that each GW advertises consists of the following:

•

IPv4 or IPv6 Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) (
the GW's loopback addresses (that is, with an AFI/SAFI pair that is one of the following: IPv4/
NLRI used for unicast forwarding (1/1); IPv6/NLRI used for unicast forwarding (2/1); IPv4/
NLRI with MPLS Labels (1/4); or IPv6/NLRI with MPLS Labels (2/4)).

) containing one of

[RFC4760]

•

A Tunnel Encapsulation attribute (
information encoded in one or more Tunnel TLVs.

[RFC9012]

) containing the GW's encapsulation

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9125

SR DC Gateways

August 2021

To avoid the side eﬀect of applying the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute to any packet that is
addressed to the GW itself, the address advertised for auto-discovery
loopback address than is advertised for packets directed to the gateway itself.

 be a diﬀerent

MUST

As described in Section 1, each GW will include a Tunnel Encapsulation attribute with the GW
encapsulation information for each of the site's active GWs (including itself) in every route
advertised externally to that site. As the current set of active GWs changes (due to the addition of
a new GW or the failure/removal of an existing GW), each externally advertised route will be re-
advertised with a new Tunnel Encapsulation attribute, which reﬂects the current set of active
GWs.

If a gateway becomes disconnected from the backbone network, or if the site operator decides to
 withdraw the advertisements described above. This
terminate the gateway's activity, it
means that remote gateways at other sites will stop seeing advertisements from or about this
gateway. Note that if the routing within a site is broken (for example, such that there is a route
from one GW to another but not in the reverse direction), then it is possible that incoming traﬃc
will be routed to the wrong GW to reach the destination preﬁx; in this degraded network
situation, traﬃc may be dropped.

MUST

Note that if a GW is (mis)conﬁgured with a diﬀerent site identiﬁer from the other GWs to the
same site, then it will not be auto-discovered by the other GWs (and will not auto-discover the
other GWs). This would result in a GW for another site receiving only the Tunnel Encapsulation
attribute included in the BGP best route, i.e., the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute of the
(mis)conﬁgured GW or that of the other GWs.

4.  Relationship to BGP - Link State and Egress Peer
Engineering

When a remote GW receives a route to a preﬁx X, it uses the Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLVs in
the containing Tunnel Encapsulation attribute to identify the GWs through which X can be
reached. It uses this information to compute SR Traﬃc Engineering (SR TE) paths across the
backbone network looking at the information advertised to it in SR BGP - Link State (BGP-LS)
[RFC9085]
(
can be used to supplement the information advertised in BGP-LS.

) and correlated using the site identity. SR Egress Peer Engineering (EPE) (

[RFC9086]

)

5.  Advertising a Site Route Externally

When a packet destined for preﬁx X is sent on an SR TE path to a GW for the site containing X
(that is, the packet is sent in the ingress site on an SR TE path that describes the whole path
including those parts that are within the egress site), it needs to carry the receiving GW's SID for
X such that this SID becomes the next SID that is due to be processed before the GW completes its
processing of the packet. To achieve this, each Tunnel TLV in the Tunnel Encapsulation attribute
contains a Preﬁx-SID sub-TLV (

[RFC9012]

) for X.

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9125

SR DC Gateways

August 2021

[RFC9012]

, the Preﬁx-SID sub-TLV is only for IPv4/IPV6 Labeled Unicast routes, so

As deﬁned in
the solution described in this document only applies to routes of those types. If the use of the
Preﬁx-SID sub-TLV for routes of other types is deﬁned in the future, further documents will be
needed to describe their use for site interconnection consistent with this document.

Alternatively, if MPLS SR is in use and if the GWs for a given egress site are conﬁgured to allow
GWs at remote ingress sites to perform SR TE through that egress site for a preﬁx X, then each
GW to the egress site computes an SR TE path through the egress site to X and places each in an
MPLS Label Stack sub-TLV (

) in the SR Tunnel TLV for that GW.

[RFC9012]

Please refer to
constructed in this case and how the advertisements would work.

Section 7 of [SR-INTERCONNECT]

 for worked examples of how the SID stack is

6.  Encapsulation

If a site is conﬁgured to allow remote GWs to send packets to the site in the site's native
encapsulation, then each GW to the site will also include multiple instances of a Tunnel TLV for
that native encapsulation in externally advertised routes: one for each GW. Each Tunnel TLV
contains a Tunnel Egress Endpoint sub-TLV with the address of the GW that the Tunnel TLV
identiﬁes. A remote GW may then encapsulate a packet according to the rules deﬁned via the
sub-TLVs included in each of the Tunnel TLVs.

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA maintains the "BGP Tunnel Encapsulation Attribute Tunnel Types" registry in the "Border
Gateway Protocol (BGP) Tunnel Encapsulation" registry.

IANA had previously assigned the value 17 from this subregistry for "SR Tunnel", referencing this
document as an Internet-Draft. At that time, the assignment policy for this range of the registry
was "First Come First Served"

[RFC8126]

.

IANA has marked that assignment as deprecated. IANA may reclaim that codepoint at such a
time that the registry is depleted.

8.  Security Considerations

From a protocol point of view, the mechanisms described in this document can leverage the
security mechanisms already deﬁned for BGP. Further discussion of security considerations for
BGP may be found in the BGP speciﬁcation itself (
(
[RFC4272]
sessions is found in
authentication issues.

). The original discussion of the use of the TCP MD5 signature option to protect BGP

 includes an analysis of BGP keying and

) and in the security analysis for BGP

[RFC4271]

[RFC5925]

[RFC6952]

, while

The mechanisms described in this document involve sharing routing or reachability information
between sites, which may mean disclosing information that is normally contained within a site.
So it needs to be understood that normal security paradigms based on the boundaries of sites are

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9125

SR DC Gateways

August 2021

weakened and interception of BGP messages may result in information being disclosed to third
parties. Discussion of these issues with respect to VPNs can be found in
[RFC7926]
information between sites.

 describes many of the issues associated with the exchange of topology or TE

[RFC4364]

, while

Particular exposures resulting from this work include:

•

Gateways to a site will know about all other gateways to the same site. This feature applies
within a site, so it is not a substantial exposure, but it does mean that if the BGP exchanges
within a site can be snooped or if a gateway can be subverted, then an attacker may learn
the full set of gateways to a site. This would facilitate more eﬀective attacks on that site.

•

The existence of multiple gateways to a site becomes more visible across the backbone and
even into remote sites. This means that an attacker is able to prepare a more comprehensive
attack than exists when only the locally attached backbone network (e.g., the AS that hosts
the site) can see all of the gateways to a site. For example, a Denial-of-Service attack on a
single GW is mitigated by the existence of other GWs, but if the attacker knows about all the
gateways, then the whole set can be attacked at once.

•

A node in a site that does not have external BGP peering (i.e., is not really a site gateway and
cannot speak BGP into the backbone network) may be able to get itself advertised as a
gateway by letting other genuine gateways discover it (by speaking BGP to them within the
site), so it may get those genuine gateways to advertise it as a gateway into the backbone
network. This would allow the malicious node to attract traﬃc without having to have
secure BGP peerings with out-of-site nodes.

•

An external party intercepting BGP messages anywhere between sites may learn
information about the functioning of the sites and the locations of endpoints. While this is
not necessarily a signiﬁcant security or privacy risk, it is possible that the disclosure of this
information could be used by an attacker.

•

If it is possible to modify a BGP message within the backbone, it may be possible to spoof the
existence of a gateway. This could cause traﬃc to be attracted to a speciﬁc node and might
result in traﬃc not being delivered.

All of the issues in the list above could cause disruption to site interconnection, but they are not
new protocol vulnerabilities so much as new exposures of information that
against using existing protocol mechanisms such as securing the TCP sessions over which the
BGP messages ﬂow. Furthermore, it is a general observation that if these attacks are possible,
then it is highly likely that far more signiﬁcant attacks can be made on the routing system. It
should be noted that BGP peerings are not discovered but always arise from explicit
conﬁguration.

SHOULD

 be protected

Given that the gateways and ASBRs are connected by tunnels that may run across parts of the
network that are not trusted, data center operators using the approach set out in this network
MUST
Additionally, due consideration
any traﬃc that uses a public or untrusted network for transport.

 consider using gateway-to-gateway encryption to protect the data center traﬃc.

 be given to encrypting end-to-end traﬃc as it would be for

MUST

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9125

SR DC Gateways

August 2021

9.  Manageability Considerations

The principal conﬁguration item added by this solution is the allocation of a site identiﬁer. The
same identiﬁer
diﬀerent identiﬁer. This requires coordination, probably through a central management agent.

 be assigned to every GW to the same site, and each site

 have a

MUST

MUST

It should be noted that BGP peerings are not discovered but always arise from explicit
conﬁguration. This is no diﬀerent from any other BGP operation.

The site identiﬁers that are conﬁgured and carried in route targets (see Section 3) are an
important feature to ensure that all of the gateways to a site discover each other. Therefore, it is
important that this value is not misconﬁgured since that would result in the gateways not
discovering each other and not advertising each other.

9.1.  Relationship to Route Target Constraint

 suggests that route reﬂectors use "Cooperative Route Filtering", which was renamed

In order to limit the VPN routing information that is maintained at a given route reﬂector,
[RFC4364]
"Outbound Route Filtering" and deﬁned in
mechanism to include support for multiple autonomous systems and asymmetric VPN topologies
such as hub-and-spoke. The mechanism in RFC 4684 is known as Route Target Constraint (RTC).

 deﬁnes an extension to that

.
[RFC5291] [RFC4684]

An operator would not normally conﬁgure RTC by default for any AFI/SAFI combination and
would only enable it after careful consideration. When using the mechanisms deﬁned in this
document, the operator should carefully consider the eﬀects of ﬁltering routes. In some cases,
this may be desirable, and in others, it could limit the eﬀectiveness of the procedures.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4271]

[RFC4360]

[RFC4760]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4

<https://www.rfc-

,
Sangli, S. Tappan, D.
,
RFC 4360 DOI 10.17487/RFC4360
info/rfc4360>

, and

.

,
Y. Rekhter "BGP Extended Communities Attribute"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, February 2006,

,

,

,
Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>

, and

,

,

.

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9125

SR DC Gateways

August 2021

[RFC5925]

[RFC7752]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9012]

,

Touch, J. Mankin, A.
DOI 10.17487/RFC5925

, and

R. Bonica "The TCP Authentication Option" RFC 5925

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5925>

, June 2010,

,

.

,

,

Gredler, H., Ed. Medved, J. Previdi, S. Farrel, A.
Distribution of Link-State and Traﬃc Engineering (TE) Information Using BGP"
,
RFC 7752 DOI 10.17487/RFC7752
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 2016,
rfc7752>

S. Ray "North-Bound

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Patel, K. Van de Velde, G. Sangli, S.
Encapsulation Attribute" RFC 9012 DOI 10.17487/RFC9012
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9012>

, and
,

,
,

.

,

J. Scudder "The BGP Tunnel

, April 2021,

<https://

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC4272]

[RFC4364]

[RFC4684]

[RFC5291]

[RFC6952]

[RFC7911]

[RFC7926]

Murphy, S. "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis" RFC 4272 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4272

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>

, January 2006,

.

,

,

,

 and

Rosen, E.
4364 DOI 10.17487/RFC4364
,
rfc4364>

,

.

Y. Rekhter "BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2006,

,

,

,

,
Marques, P. Bonica, R. Fang, L. Martini, L. Raszuk, R. Patel, K.
"Constrained Route Distribution for Border Gateway Protocol/MultiProtocol
Label Switching (BGP/MPLS) Internet Protocol (IP) Virtual Private Networks
<https://www.rfc-
(VPNs)" RFC 4684 DOI 10.17487/RFC4684
editor.org/info/rfc4684>

, November 2006,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,
J. Guichard

 and

Chen, E.
,
5291 DOI 10.17487/RFC5291
rfc5291>

,

.

Y. Rekhter "Outbound Route Filtering Capability for BGP-4" RFC

,

, August 2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
Jethanandani, M. Patel, K.
L. Zheng "Analysis of BGP, LDP, PCEP, and MSDP
Issues According to the Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (KARP)
,
Design Guide" RFC 6952 DOI 10.17487/RFC6952
.
editor.org/info/rfc6952>

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2013,

, and

,

,

Walton, D. Retana, A. Chen, E.
in BGP" RFC 7911 DOI 10.17487/RFC7911
info/rfc7911>

, and

,

,

,

.

J. Scudder "Advertisement of Multiple Paths
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,
, July 2016,

,

,

,
X. Zhang
Farrel, A., Ed. Drake, J. Bitar, N. Swallow, G. Ceccarelli, D.
"Problem Statement and Architecture for Information Exchange between
Interconnected Traﬃc-Engineered Networks" BCP 206 RFC 7926 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7926>
RFC7926

, July 2016,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9125

SR DC Gateways

August 2021

[RFC8126]

[RFC8402]

[RFC9085]

[RFC9086]

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

.

,

,

,

, June

,

Filsﬁls, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

.

,

,

,

, and

R.
, July

,

Previdi, S. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Filsﬁls, C. Gredler, H.
Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS) Extensions for Segment Routing" RFC
,
9085 DOI 10.17487/RFC9085
rfc9085>

,
M. Chen "Border
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2021,

, and

,

,

.

,

Previdi, S. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Filsﬁls, C. Patel, K. Ray, S.
Gateway Protocol - Link State (BGP-LS) Extensions for Segment Routing BGP
Egress Peer Engineering" RFC 9086 DOI 10.17487/RFC9086
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9086>

, August 2021,

,
J. Dong "Border

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

[SR-INTERCONNECT]

Farrel, A.

 and

J. Drake "Interconnection of Segment Routing Sites -

,

,
Problem Statement and Solution Landscape" Work in Progress Internet-Draft,
draft-farrel-spring-sr-domain-interconnect-06
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-farrel-spring-sr-domain-interconnect-06>

,
<https://

, 19 May 2021,

.

Acknowledgements

,

Thanks to
Daniel Migault
provided a helpful GenArt review, and
comments during IESG review.

 for review comments, and to

Bruno Rijsman Stephane Litkowski Boris Hassanov Linda Dunbar Ravi Singh

,

,

,

Robert Raszuk

 for useful discussions.

John Scudder

 and

Benjamin Kaduk

 made helpful

, and
Gyan Mishra

Authors' Addresses

Adrian Farrel
Old Dog Consulting
Email:

 adrian@olddog.co.uk

John Drake
Juniper Networks
Email:

 jdrake@juniper.net

Eric Rosen
Juniper Networks
Email:

 erosen52@gmail.com

Keyur Patel
Arrcus, Inc.
Email:

 keyur@arrcus.com

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9125

SR DC Gateways

August 2021

Luay Jalil
Verizon
Email:

 luay.jalil@verizon.com

Farrel, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

