Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9034
Standards Track
June 2021
2070-1721

L. Thomas
C-DAC

S. Anamalamudi
SRM University-AP

S.V.R. Anand
Indian Institute of Science

M. Hegde
Indian Institute of Science

C. Perkins
Lupin Lodge

RFC 9034
Packet Delivery Deadline Time in the Routing
Header for IPv6 over Low‑Power Wireless Personal
Area Networks (6LoWPANs)

Abstract

This document speciﬁes a new type for the 6LoWPAN routing header containing the deadline
time for data packets, designed for use over constrained networks. The deadline time enables
forwarding and scheduling decisions for time-critical machine-to-machine (M2M) applications
running on Internet-enabled devices that operate within time-synchronized networks. This
document also speciﬁes a representation for the deadline time values in such networks.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9034

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  6LoRHE Generic Format

4.  Deadline-6LoRHE

5.  Deadline-6LoRHE Format

6.  Deadline-6LoRHE in Three Network Scenarios

6.1.  Scenario 1: Endpoints in the Same DODAG (N1)

6.2.  Scenario 2: Endpoints in Networks with Dissimilar L2 Technologies

6.3.  Scenario 3: Packet Transmission across Diﬀerent DODAGs (N1 to N2)

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Synchronization Aspects

9.  Security Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Modular Arithmetic Considerations

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

1.  Introduction

Low-Power and Lossy Networks (LLNs) are likely to be deployed for real-time industrial
applications requiring end-to-end delay guarantees
. A Deterministic Network
("DetNet") typically requires some data packets to reach their receivers within strict time bounds.
Intermediate nodes use the deadline information to make appropriate packet forwarding and
scheduling decisions to meet the time bounds.

[RFC8578]

[RFC8138]

[RFC6554]

This document speciﬁes a new type for the Elective 6LoWPAN Routing Header (6LoRHE),
Deadline-6LoRHE, so that the deadline time (i.e., the time of latest acceptable delivery) of data
 speciﬁes the 6LoWPAN Routing Header
packets can be included within the 6LoRHE.
(6LoRH), compression schemes for RPL (Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks)
source routing
encapsulation. This document also speciﬁes the handling of the deadline time when packets
traverse time-synchronized networks operating in diﬀerent time zones or distinct reference
clocks. Time-synchronization techniques are outside the scope of this document. There are a
number of standards available for this purpose, including IEEE 1588
, IEEE
802.1AS
[IEEE.802.15.4]

, IEEE 802.15.4-2015 Time-Slotted Channel Hopping (TSCH)

, header compression of RPL packet information

[IEEE.802.1AS.2011]

[IEEE.1588.2008]

, and more.

[RFC6553]

, and IP-in-IP

The Deadline-6LoRHE can be used in any time-synchronized 6LoWPAN network. A 6TiSCH (IPv6
over the TSCH mode of IEEE 802.15.4) network is used to describe the implementation of the
Deadline-6LoRHE, but this does not preclude its use in scenarios other than 6TiSCH. For instance,
there is a growing interest in using 6LoWPAN over a Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) mesh network
[6LO-BLEMESH]
synchronization is being explored by the Bluetooth community. There are also cases under
consideration in Wi-SUN

 in industrial IoT (Internet of Things)

[PHY-SPEC] [Wi-SUN]

[IEEE-BLE-MESH]

. BLE mesh time

.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses the terminology deﬁned in

[RFC6550]

 and

[RFC9030]
.

3.  6LoRHE Generic Format

Note: this section is not normative and is included for convenience. The generic header format of
the 6LoRHE is speciﬁed in

. Figure 1 illustrates the 6LoRHE generic format.

[RFC8138]

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

   0                   1
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-        ...              -+
  |1|0|1| Length  |      Type     |        Options            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-        ...              -+
                                   <---    length         --->

Figure 1: 6LoRHE Format

Length:

Length of the 6LoRHE expressed in bytes, excluding the ﬁrst 2 bytes. This enables a

node to skip a 6LoRHE if the Type is not recognized or supported.

Type (variable length):

Type of the 6LoRHE (see Section 7).

4.  Deadline-6LoRHE

[RFC8138]

 that provides the Deadline Time (DT)

The Deadline-6LoRHE (see Figure 3) is a 6LoRHE
for an IPv6 datagram in a compressed form. Along with the DT, the header can include the
Origination Time Delta (OTD) packet, which contains the time when the packet was enqueued for
transmission (expressed as a value to be subtracted from DT); this enables a close estimate of the
total delay incurred by a packet. The OTD ﬁeld is initialized by the sender based on the current
time at the outgoing network interface through which the packet is forwarded. Since the OTD is a
delta, the length of the OTD ﬁeld (i.e., OTL) will require fewer bits than the length of the DT ﬁeld
(i.e., DTL).

The DT ﬁeld contains the value of the deadline time for the packet -- in other words, the time by
which the application expects the packet to be delivered to the receiver.

packet_deadline_time = packet_origination_time + max_delay

In order to support delay-sensitive, deterministic applications, all nodes within the network
should process the Deadline-6LoRHE. The DT and OTD packets are represented in time units
determined by a scaling parameter in the Routing Header. The Network ASN (Absolute Slot
Number) can be used as a time unit in a time-slotted synchronized network (for instance, a
6TiSCH network, where global time is maintained in the units of slot lengths of a certain
resolution).

The delay experienced by packets in the network is a useful metric for network diagnostics and
performance monitoring. Whenever a packet crosses into a network using a diﬀerent reference
clock, the DT ﬁeld is updated to represent the same deadline time, but expressed using the
reference clock of the interface into the new network. Then the origination time is the same as
the current time when the packet is transmitted into the new network, minus the delay already
experienced by the packet, say 'current_dly'. In this way, within the newly entered network, the
packet will appear to have originated 'current_dly' time units earlier with respect to the
reference clock of the new network.

new_network_origin_time = time_now_in_new_network - current_dly

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

The following example illustrates these calculations when a packet travels between three
networks, each in a diﬀerent time zone (TZ). 'x' can be 1, 2, or 3. Suppose that the deadline time
as measured in TZ1 is 1050, and the origination time is 50. Suppose that the diﬀerence between
TZ2 and TZ1 is 900, and the diﬀerence between TZ2 and TZ3 is 3600. In the ﬁgure, OT is the
origination time as measured in the current time zone, and is equal to DT - OTD, that is, DT - 1000.
Figure 2 uses the following abbreviations:

TxA:

Time of arrival of packet in the network 'x'

TxD:

Departure time of packet from the network 'x'

dlyx:

Delay experienced by the packet in the previous network(s)

TZx:

The time zone of network 'x'

            TZ1                      TZ2                    TZ3
  T1A=50|                 |                             |
        |----  dly1=50    |                             |
        |     \           |                             |
        |      \          |                             |
        |       \ T1D=100 |T2A=1000                     |
        |        -------->|-----           dly2=450     |
        |                 |     \                       |
        |                 |      \                      |
        |                 |       \          T2D=1400   | T3A=5000
        |                 |         ------------------->|---------->
        |                 |                             |
        v                 v                             v

   dly0 = 0          dly1 = T1D-OT1      dly2 = T2D-OT2
                          = 100-50            = 1400 - 950
                          = 50                = 450

   OT1 = T1A-dly0     OT2 = T2A-dly1     OT3 = T3A-dly2
       = 50               = 1000-50          = 5000 - 450
                          = 950              = 4550

Figure 2: Deadline Time Update Example

There are multiple ways that a packet can be delayed, including queuing delay, Media Access
Control (MAC) layer contention delay, serialization delay, and propagation delay. Sometimes
there are processing delays as well. For the purpose of determining whether or not the deadline
has already passed, these various delays are not distinguished.

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

5.  Deadline-6LoRHE Format

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |1|0|1| Length  |  6LoRH Type   |D| TU|  DTL  | OTL | BinaryPt  |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |      DT (variable length)     | OTD(variable length)(optional)|
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: Deadline-6LoRHE Format

Length (5 bits):
octets.

Length represents the total length of the Deadline-6LoRHE Type measured in

6LoRH Type:

7 (See Section 7.)

D ﬂag (1 bit):

The 'D' ﬂag, set by the sender, qualiﬁes the action to be taken when a 6LoWPAN

Router (6LR) detects that the deadline time has elapsed.

If 'D' bit is 1, then the 6LR

MUST

 drop the packet if the deadline time is elapsed.

If 'D' bit is 0, the packet
NOT in a situation of constrained resource, and if there are reasons to suspect that
downstream nodes might ﬁnd it useful (delay measurements, interpolations, etc.).

 be forwarded on an exception basis, if the forwarding node is

MAY

TU (2 bits):

Indicates the time units for DT and OTD ﬁelds. The encodings for the DT and OTD

ﬁelds use the same time units and precision.

00
01
10
11

Time represented in seconds and fractional seconds
Reserved
Network ASN
Reserved

DTL (4 bits):

Length of the DT ﬁeld as an unsigned 4-bit integer, encoding the length of the ﬁeld

in hex digits, minus one.

OTL (3 bits):

Length of the OTD ﬁeld as an unsigned 3-bit integer, encoding the length of the

ﬁeld in hex digits. If OTL == 0, the OTD ﬁeld is not present. The value of OTL
the value of DTL plus one.

MUST NOT

 exceed

For example, DTL = 0b0000 means the DT ﬁeld in the 6LoRHE is 1 hex digit (4 bits) long. OTL =
0b111 means the OTD ﬁeld is 7 hex digits (28 bits) long.

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

BinaryPt (6 bits):

If zero, the number of bits of the integer part the DT is equal to the number of

bits of the fractional part of the DT. If nonzero, the BinaryPt is a (2's complement) signed
integer determining the position of the binary point within the value for the DT. This allows
BinaryPt to be within the range [-32,31].

•

If BinaryPt value is positive, then the number of bits for the integer part of the DT is
increased by the value of BinaryPt, and the number of bits for the fractional part of the
DT is correspondingly reduced. This increases the range of DT.

•

If BinaryPt value is negative, then the number of bits for the integer part of the DT is
decreased by the value of BinaryPt, and the number of bits for the fractional part of the
DT is correspondingly increased. This increases the precision of the fractional seconds
part of DT.

DT Value (4..64 bits):

An unsigned integer of DTL+1 hex digits giving the DT value.

OTD Value (4..28 bits):

If present, an unsigned integer of OTL hex digits giving the origination

time as a negative oﬀset from the DT value.

Whenever a sender initiates the IP datagram, it includes the Deadline-6LoRHE along with other
6LoRH information. For information about the time-synchronization requirements between
sender and receiver, see Section 8.

For the chosen time unit, a compressed time representation is available as follows. First, the
application on the originating node determines how many time bits are needed to represent the
diﬀerence between the time at which the packet is launched and the deadline time, including the
representation of fractional time units. That number of bits (say, N_bits) determines DTL as
follows:

DTL = ((N_bits - 1) / 4)

The number of bits determined by DTL allows the counting of any number of fractional time
units in the range of interest determined by DT and the OT. Denote this number of fractional time
units to be Epoch_Range(DTL) (i.e., Epoch_Range is a function of DTL):

Epoch_Range(DTL) = 24*(DTL+1)

Each point of time between OT and DT is represented by a time unit and a fractional time unit; in
this section, this combined representation is called a rational time unit (RTU). 1 RTU measures
the smallest fractional time that can be represented between two points of time in the epoch (i.e.,
within the range of interest).

DT - OT cannot exceed 24*(DTL+1) == 16DTL+1. A low value of DTL leads to a small Epoch_Range; if
DTL = 0, there will only be 16 RTUs within the Epoch_Range (i.e., Epoch_Range(DTL) = 161) for
any TU. The values that can be represented in the current epoch are in the range [0,
(Epoch_Range(DTL) - 1)].

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

Assuming wraparound does not occur, OT is represented by the value (OT mod Epoch_Range),
and DT is represented by the value (DT mod Epoch_Range). All arithmetic is to be performed
modulo (Epoch_Range(DTL)), yielding only positive values for DT - OT.

In order to allow ﬁne-grained control over the setting of the deadline time, the ﬁelds for DT and
OTD use fractional seconds. This is done by specifying a binary point, which allocates some of the
bits for fractional times. Thus, all such fractions are restricted to be negative powers of 2. Each
point of time between OT and DT is then represented by a time unit (either seconds or ASNs) and
a fractional time unit.

Let OT_abs, DT_abs, and CT_abs denote the true (absolute) values (on the synchronized timelines)
for OT, DT, and current time. Let N be the number of bits to be used to represent the integer parts
of OT_abs, DT_abs, and CT_abs:

N = {4*(DTL+1)/2} + BinaryPt

The originating node has to pick a segment size (2^N) so that DT_abs - OT_abs < 2^N, and so that
intermediate network nodes can detect whether or not CT_abs > DT_abs.

Given a value for N, the value for DT is represented in the deadline-time format by DT = (DT_abs
mod 2^N). DT is typically represented as a positive value (even though negative modular values
make sense). Also, let OT = OT_abs mod 2^N and CT = CT_abs mod 2^N, where both OT and CT are
also considered as non-negative values.

When the packet is launched by the originating node, CT_abs == OT_abs and CT == OT. Given a
particular value for N, then in order for downstream nodes to detect whether or not the deadline
has expired (i.e., whether DT_abs > CT_abs), the following is required:

Assumption 1: DT_abs - OT_abs < 2^N.

Otherwise the ambiguity inherent in the modulus arithmetic yielding OT and DT will cause
failure: one cannot measure time diﬀerences greater than 2^N using numbers in a time segment
of length less than 2^N.

Under Assumption 1, downstream nodes must eﬀectively check whether or not their current
time is later than the DT -- but the value of the DT has to be inferred from the value of DT in the
6LoRHE, which is a number less than 2^N. This inference cannot be expected to reliably succeed
unless Assumption 1 is valid, which means that the originating node has to be careful to pick
proper values for DTL and for BinaryPt.

Since OT is not necessarily provided in the 6loRHE, there may be a danger of ambiguity. Surely,
when DT = CT, the deadline time is expiring and the packet should be dropped. However, what if
an intermediate node measures that CT = DT+1? Was the packet launched a short time before
arrival at the intermediate node, or has the current time wrapped around so that CT_abs -
OT_abs > 2^N?

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

In order to solve this problem, a safety margin has to be provided, in addition to requiring that
DT_abs - OT_abs < 2^N. The value of this safety margin is proportional to 2^N and is determined
by a new parameter, called the "SAFETY_FACTOR". Then, for safety the originating node MUST
further ensure that (DT_abs - OT_abs) < 2^N*(1-SAFETY_FACTOR).

Each intermediate node that receives the packet with the Deadline-6LoRHE must determine
whether ((CT - DT) mod 2^N) > SAFETY_FACTOR*2^N. If this test condition is not satisﬁed, the
deadline time has expired. See Appendix A for more explanation about the test condition. All
nodes that receive a packet with a Deadline-6LoRHE included MUST use the same value for the
SAFETY_FACTOR. The SAFETY_FACTOR is to be chosen so that a packet with the Deadline-6LoRHE
included will be tested against the current time at least once during every subinterval of length
SAFETY_FACTOR*2^N. In this way, it can be guaranteed that the packet will be tested often
enough to make sure it can be dropped whenever CT_abs > DT_abs. The value of SAFETY_FACTOR
is speciﬁed in this document to be 20%.

Example: Consider a 6TiSCH network with time-slot length of 10 ms. Let the time units be
ASNs (TU == (binary)0b10). Let the current ASN when the packet is originated be 54400, and
the maximum allowable delay (max_delay) for the packet delivery be 1 second from the
packet origination, then:

deadline_time = packet_origination_time + max_delay

= 0xD480 + 0x64 (Network ASNs)

= 0xD4E4 (Network ASNs)

Then, the Deadline-6LoRHE encoding with nonzero OTL is:

DTL = 3, OTL = 2, TU = 0b10, BinaryPt = 8, DT = 0xD4E4, OTD = 0x64

6.  Deadline-6LoRHE in Three Network Scenarios

In this section, the Deadline-6LoRHE operation is described for three network scenarios. Figure 4
depicts a constrained time-synchronized LLN that has two subnets, N1 and N2, connected
through 6LoWPAN Border Routers (6LBRs)
and T2.

 with diﬀerent reference clock times, T1

[RFC8929]

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

                       +-------------------+
                       | Time-Synchronized |
                       |      Network      |
                       +---------+---------+
                                 |
                                 |
                                 |
                  +--------------+--------------+
                  |                             |
               +-----+                       +-----+
               |     | Backbone              |     | Backbone
          o    |     | router                |     | router
               +-----+                       +-----+
          o                  o               o
              o    o   o               o  o   o  o   o  o
         o      LLN    o                 o  LLN   o  o
            o   o    o      o             o o o     o  o
      6LoWPAN Network (subnet N1)   6LoWPAN Network (subnet N2)

Figure 4: Intra-Network Time Zone Scenario

6.1.  Scenario 1: Endpoints in the Same DODAG (N1)

In Scenario 1, shown in Figure 5, the Sender 'S' has an IP datagram to be routed to a Receiver 'R'
within the same Destination-Oriented Directed Acyclic Graph (DODAG). For the route segment
from the sender to the 6LBR, the sender includes a Deadline-6LoRHE by encoding the deadline
time contained in the packet. Subsequently, each 6LR will perform hop-by-hop routing to
forward the packet towards the 6LBR. Once the 6LBR receives the IP datagram, it sends the
packet downstream towards 'R'.

In the case of a network running in RPL non-storing mode, the 6LBR generates an IPv6-in-IPv6
encapsulated packet when sending the packet downwards to the receiver
. The 6LBR
copies the Deadline-6LoRHE from the sender-originated IP header to the outer IP header. The
Deadline-6LoRHE contained in the inner IP header is removed.

[RFC9008]

                           +-------+
                ^          | 6LBR  |       |
                |          |       |       |
                |          +-------+       |
        Upward  |         /      /| \      | Downward
        routing |      (F)      / |  \     | routing
                |     /  \    (C) |  (D)   |
                |    /    \    |  | / |\   |
                |  (A)    (B)  : (E)  : R  |
                |  /|\     | \   / \       |
                | S : :    : :  :  :       v

Figure 5: Endpoints within the Same DODAG (Subnet N1)

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

At the tunnel endpoint of the encapsulation, the Deadline-6LoRHE is copied back from the outer
header to inner header, and the inner IP packet is delivered to 'R'.

6.2.  Scenario 2: Endpoints in Networks with Dissimilar L2 Technologies

In Scenario 2, shown in Figure 6, the Sender 'S' (belonging to DODAG 1) has an IP datagram to be
routed to a Receiver 'R' over a time-synchronized IPv6 network. For the route segment from 'S' to
6LBR, 'S' includes a Deadline-6LoRHE. Subsequently, each 6LR will perform hop-by-hop routing
to forward the packet towards the 6LBR. Once the deadline time information reaches the 6LBR,
the packet will be encoded according to the mechanism prescribed in the other time-
synchronized network depicted as "Time-Synchronized Network" in Figure 6. The speciﬁc data
encapsulation mechanisms followed in the new network are beyond the scope of this document.

                           +----------------+
                           | Time-          |
                           | Synchronized   |------R
                           | Network        |
                           +----------------+
                                   |
                                   |
                         ----------+-----------
                  ^                |
                  |            +---+---+
                  |            | 6LBR  |
         Upward   |            |       |
         routing  |            +------++
                  |        (F)/      /| \
                  |       /  \      / |  \
                  |      /    \   (C) |  (D)
                  |    (A)    (B)  |  | / |\
                  |    /|\     |\  : (E)  : :
                  |   S : :    : :   / \
                                    :   :

Figure 6: Packet Transmission in Dissimilar L2 Technologies or Internet

For instance, the IP datagram could be routed to another time-synchronized, deterministic
network using the mechanism speciﬁed in In-situ Operations, Administration, and Maintenance
(IOAM)
measurement of the current time in the new network.

, and then the deadline time would be updated according to the

[IOAM-DATA]

6.3.  Scenario 3: Packet Transmission across Diﬀerent DODAGs (N1 to N2)

Consider the scenario depicted in Figure 7, in which the Sender 'S' (belonging to DODAG 1) has an
IP datagram to be sent to Receiver 'R' belonging to another DODAG (DODAG 2). The operation of
this scenario can be decomposed into a combination of Scenarios 1 and 2. For the route segment
from 'S' to 6LBR1, 'S' includes the Deadline-6LoRHE. Subsequently, each 6LR will perform hop-by-
hop operations to forward the packet towards 6LBR1. Once the IP datagram reaches 6LBR1 of
DODAG1, 6LBR1 applies the same rule as described in Scenario 2 while routing the packet to
6LBR2 over a (likely) time-synchronized wired backhaul. The wired side of 6LBR2 can be mapped

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

to the receiver of Scenario 2. Once the packet reaches 6LBR2, it updates the Deadline-6LoRHE by
adding or subtracting the diﬀerence of time of DODAG2 and sends the packet downstream
towards 'R'.

                 Time-Synchronized Network
               -+---------------------------+-
                |                           |
   DODAG1   +---+---+                   +---+---+   DODAG2
            | 6LBR1 |                   | 6LBR2 |
            |       |                   |       |
            +-------+                   +-------+
        (F)/      /| \              (F)/      /| \
       /  \      / |  \            /  \      / |  \
      /    \   (C) |  (D)         /    \   (C) |  (D)
    (A)    (B)  |  | / |\       (A)    (B)  |  |   |\
    /|\     |\  : (E)  : :      /|\     |\  : (E)  : :
   S : :    : :   / \          : : :    : :   / \
                 :   :                       :   R
Network N1, time zone T1      Network N2, time zone T2

Figure 7: Packet Transmission in Diﬀerent DODAGs (N1 to N2)

Consider an example of a 6TiSCH network in which S in DODAG1 generates the packet at ASN
20000 to R in DODAG2. Let the maximum allowable delay be 1 second. The time-slot length in
DODAG1 and DODAG2 is assumed to be 10 ms. Once the deadline time is encoded in
Deadline-6LoRHE, the packet is forwarded to 6LBR1 of DODAG1. Suppose the packet reaches
6LBR1 of DODAG1 at ASN 20030.

current_time = ASN at 6LBR * slot_length_value

remaining_time = deadline_time - current_time

= ((packet_origination_time + max_delay) - current time)

= (20000 + 100) - 20030

= 30 (in Network ASNs)

= 30 * 103 milliseconds

Once the deadline time information reaches 6LBR2, the packet will be encoded according to the
mechanism prescribed in the other time-synchronized network.

7.  IANA Considerations

This document deﬁnes a new Elective 6LoWPAN Routing Header Type, and IANA has assigned
the value 7 from the 6LoWPAN Dispatch Page 1 number space for this purpose.

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

Value Description

Reference

7

Deadline-6LoRHE

RFC 9034

Table 1: Entry in the "Elective 6LoWPAN
Routing Header Type" Registry

8.  Synchronization Aspects

The document supports time representation of the deadline and origination times carried in the
packets traversing networks of diﬀerent time zones having diﬀerent time-synchronization
mechanisms. For instance, in a 6TiSCH network where the time is maintained as ASN time slots,
the time synchronization is achieved through beaconing among the nodes as described in
[RFC7554]
an external reference clock from an NTP server. The speciﬁcation of the time-synchronization
method that needs to be followed by a network is beyond the scope of the document.

. There could be 6lo networks that employ NTP where the nodes are synchronized with

The number of hex digits chosen to represent DT, and the portion of that ﬁeld allocated to
represent the integer number of seconds, determines the meaning of t0, i.e., the meaning of DT
== 0 in the chosen representation. If DTL == 0, then there are only 4 bits that can be used to count
the time units, so that DT == 0 can never be more than 16 time units (or fractional time units) in
the past. This then requires that the time synchronization between sender and receiver has to be
tighter than 16 units. If the binary point were moved so that all the bits were used for fractional
time units (e.g., fractional seconds or fractional ASNs), the time-synchronization requirement
would be correspondingly tighter.

A 4-bit ﬁeld for DT allows up to 16 hex digits, which is 64 bits. That is enough to represent the
NTP 64-bit timestamp format
establishing deadline times. Unless the binary point is moved, this is enough to represent time
since year 1900.

, which is more than enough for the purposes of

[RFC5905]

For example, suppose that DTL = 0b0000 and the DT bits are split evenly; then we can count up to
3.75 seconds by quarter-seconds.

If DTL = 3 and the DT bits are again split evenly, then we can count up to 256 seconds (in steps of
1/256 of a second).

In all cases, t0 is deﬁned as speciﬁed in Section 5.

t0 = [current_time - (current_time mod (24*(DTL+1)))]

regardless of the choice of TU.

For TU = 0b00, the time units are seconds. With DTL == 15, and BinaryPt == 0, the epoch is (by
default) January 1, 1900, at 00:00 UTC. The resolution is then 2-32 seconds, which is the maximum
possible. This time format wraps around every 232 seconds, which is roughly 136 years.

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

For TU = 0b10, the time units are ASNs. The start time is relative, and updated by a mechanism
that is out of scope for this document. With 10 ms slots, DTL = 15, and BinaryPt == 0, it would take
over a year for the ASN to wrap around. Typically, the number of hex digits allocated for TU =
0b10 would be less than 15.

9.  Security Considerations

[RFC6553]
 apply. Using a compressed format as opposed to the full inline format is logically

The security considerations of
(Section 5)
equivalent and does not create an opening for a new threat when compared to
[RFC6553]

[RFC4944] (Section 13) [RFC6282] (Section 6)
,

[RFC6550]

,

.
[RFC6554]

, and

, and

The protocol elements speciﬁed in this document are designed to work in controlled operational
environments (e.g., industrial process control and automation). In order to avoid misuse of the
deadline information that could potentially result in a Denial of Service (DoS) attack, proper
functioning of this deadline time mechanism requires the provisioning and management of
network resources for supporting traﬃc ﬂows with deadlines, performance monitoring, and
admission control policy enforcement. The network provisioning can be done either centrally or
in a distributed fashion. For example, tracks in a 6TiSCH network could be established by a
centralized Path Computation Element (PCE), as described in the 6TiSCH architecture

.
[RFC9030]

The security considerations of DetNet architecture
document as well, as follows. To secure the request and control of resources allocated for tracks,
authentication and authorization can be used for each device and network controller devices. In
the case of distributed control protocols, security is expected to be provided by the security
properties of the protocols in use.

[RFC8655] (Section 5)

 mostly apply to this

The identiﬁcation of deadline-bearing ﬂows on a per-ﬂow basis may provide attackers with
additional information about the data ﬂows compared to networks that do not include per-ﬂow
identiﬁcation. The security implications of disclosing that additional information deserve
consideration when implementing this deadline speciﬁcation.

Because of the requirement of precise time synchronization, the accuracy, availability, and
integrity of time synchronization is of critical importance. Extensive discussion of this topic can
be found in

.
[RFC7384]

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

[RFC4944]

[RFC5905]

[RFC6282]

[RFC6550]

[RFC6553]

[RFC6554]

[RFC7384]

[RFC7554]

[RFC8138]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8655]

,

Montenegro, G. Kushalnagar, N. Hui, J.
Packets over IEEE 802.15.4 Networks" RFC 4944 DOI 10.17487/RFC4944
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4944>
September 2007,

D. Culler "Transmission of IPv6

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

, and
W. Kasch "Network Time Protocol
Mills, D. Martin, J., Ed. Burbank, J.
Version 4: Protocol and Algorithms Speciﬁcation" RFC 5905 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5905

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5905>

, June 2010,

,
,

,

,

.

 and

Hui, J., Ed.
802.15.4-Based Networks" RFC 6282 DOI 10.17487/RFC6282
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6282>

P. Thubert "Compression Format for IPv6 Datagrams over IEEE
, September 2011,

,
,

,

.

,

,
Winter, T., Ed. Thubert, P., Ed. Brandt, A. Hui, J. Kelsey, R. Levis, P. Pister, K.
,
Struik, R. Vasseur, JP.
R. Alexander "RPL: IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-
Power and Lossy Networks" RFC 6550 DOI 10.17487/RFC6550
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6550>

, March 2012,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

Hui, J.
JP. Vasseur "The Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy
Networks (RPL) Option for Carrying RPL Information in Data-Plane Datagrams"
, March 2012,
RFC 6553 DOI 10.17487/RFC6553
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc6553>

,
.

,

,

,

Hui, J. Vasseur, JP. Culler, D.
Routes with the Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL)"
RFC 6554 DOI 10.17487/RFC6554
rfc6554>

V. Manral "An IPv6 Routing Header for Source

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2012,

, and

,
.

,

,

,
Mizrahi, T. "Security Requirements of Time Protocols in Packet Switched
,
,
Networks" RFC 7384 DOI 10.17487/RFC7384
editor.org/info/rfc7384>

, October 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

.

,

Watteyne, T., Ed. Palattella, M.
,
Channel Hopping (TSCH) in the Internet of Things (IoT): Problem Statement"
, May 2015,
RFC 7554 DOI 10.17487/RFC7554
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc7554>

L. Grieco "Using IEEE 802.15.4e Time-Slotted

, and

,
.

,

,

R. Cragie "IPv6 over Low-Power
Thubert, P., Ed. Bormann, C. Toutain, L.
,
Wireless Personal Area Network (6LoWPAN) Routing Header" RFC 8138 DOI
10.17487/RFC8138

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8138>

, April 2017,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

.

,

,

,

Finn, N. Thubert, P. Varga, B.
,
,
Architecture" RFC 8655 DOI 10.17487/RFC8655
.
editor.org/info/rfc8655>

, and

,

,

J. Farkas "Deterministic Networking

, October 2019,

<https://www.rfc-

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

[RFC9030]

,

Thubert, P., Ed. "An Architecture for IPv6 over the Time-Slotted Channel
Hopping Mode of IEEE 802.15.4 (6TiSCH)" RFC 9030 DOI 10.17487/RFC9030
2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9030>

,

,

.

, May

10.2.  Informative References

[6LO-BLEMESH]

Gomez, C. Darroudi, S. M. Savolainen, T.

,

,

, and

M. Spoerk "IPv6 Mesh over

BLUETOOTH(R) Low Energy using IPSP" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
,
ietf-6lo-blemesh-10
blemesh-10>

<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-6lo-

, 22 April 2021,

.

,
,

[IEEE-BLE-MESH]

Leonardi, L. Patti, G.

,

, and

L. Lo Bello "Multi-Hop Real-Time

,

Communications Over Bluetooth Low Energy Industrial Wireless Mesh
,
Networks" IEEE Access, Vol 6, pp. 26505-26519 DOI 10.1109/
ACCESS.2018.2834479

, May 2018,

.
<https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2834479>

,

[IEEE.1588.2008]

IEEE "IEEE Standard for a Precision Clock Synchronization Protocol for

,

Networked Measurement and Control Systems" DOI 10.1109/
IEEESTD.2008.4579760
IEEESTD.2008.4579760>

<https://doi.org/10.1109/

, July 2008,

.

,

[IEEE.802.15.4]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Low-Rate Wireless Networks" IEEE Standard
802.15.4-2015 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2016.7460875
<https://
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7460875>

,
, April 2016,

,

.

[IEEE.802.1AS.2011]

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks - Timing

,

[IOAM-DATA]

[PHY-SPEC]

[RFC8578]

[RFC8929]

[RFC9008]

and Synchronization for Time-Sensitive Applications in Bridged Local Area
,
Networks" IEEE Std 802.1AS-2011 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2011.5741898
2011,

<https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2011.5741898>

,

.

, March

,
Brockners, F., Ed. Bhandari, S., Ed.
OAM" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ippm-ioam-data-12
February 2021,

, 21
.
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-ippm-ioam-data-12>

T. Mizrahi, Ed. "Data Fields for In-situ

, and

,

,

,

Wi-SUN Alliance "Wi-SUN PHY Speciﬁcation V1.0"
sun.org>

.

,

, March 2016,

<http://wi-

,
Grossman, E., Ed. "Deterministic Networking Use Cases" RFC 8578 DOI
.
, May 2019,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8578>
10.17487/RFC8578

,

,

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Perkins, C.E.
,
8929 DOI 10.17487/RFC8929
rfc8929>

.

, and
, November 2020,

E. Levy-Abegnoli "IPv6 Backbone Router" RFC

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Robles, M.I. Richardson, M.
Header for Source Routes, and IPv6-in-IPv6 Encapsulation in the RPL Data
,
Plane" RFC 9008 DOI 10.17487/RFC9008
info/rfc9008>

P. Thubert "Using RPI Option Type, Routing

, April 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, and

,

,

.

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

[Wi-SUN]

,

,

R. Okumura
Harada, H. Mizutani, K. Fujiwara, J. Mochizuki, K. Obata, K.
,
"IEEE 802.15.4g Based Wi-SUN Communication Systems" IEICE Transactions on
Communications Volume E100.B, Issue 7, pp. 1032-1043 DOI 10.1587/
transcom.2016SCI0002
transcom.2016SCI0002>

<https://doi.org/10.1587/

, January 2017,

, and

,
,

,

,

.

,

Appendix A.  Modular Arithmetic Considerations

Graphically, one might visualize the timeline as follows:

           OT_abs        CT_abs        DT_abs
      -------|-------------|-------------|------------------>

Figure 8: Absolute Timeline Representation

In Figure 8, the value of CT_abs is envisioned as traveling to the right as time progresses, getting
farther away from OT_abs and getting closer to DT_abs. The timeline is considered to be
subdivided into time subintervals [i,j] starting and ending at absolute times equal to k*(2^N), for
integer values of k. Let I_k = k*(2^N) and I_(k+1) = (k+1)*2^N. Intervals starting at I_k and I_(k+1)
may occur at various placements in the above timeline. Even though OT_abs is always less than
DT_abs, it could be that DT < OT because of the way that DT and OT are represented within the
range [0, 2^N) and similarly for CT_abs and CT compared to OT and DT.

Representing the above situation in time segments of length 2^N (and values OT, CT, DT) results
in several cases where the deadline time has not elapsed:

1) OT < CT < DT

(e.g., I_k < OT_abs < CT_abs < DT_abs < I_(k+1) )

2) DT < OT < CT

(e.g., I_k < OT_abs < CT_abs < I_(k+1) < DT_abs )

3) CT < DT < OT

(e.g., I_k < OT_abs < I_(k+1) < CT_abs < DT_abs )

In the following cases, the deadline time has elapsed and the packet should be dropped.

4) DT < CT < OT

5) OT < DT < CT

6) CT < OT < DT

Again in Figure 8, consider CT_abs as time moving away from OT_abs and towards DT_abs. For
times CT_abs before the expiration of the deadline time, we also have CT_abs - OT_abs == CT - OT
mod 2^N and similarly for DT_abs - CT_abs.

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

As time proceeds, DT_abs - CT_abs gets smaller. When the deadline time expires, DT_abs - CT_abs
begins to grow negative. A proper selection for SAFETY_FACTOR allows it to go slightly negative
but for an intermediate point to detect that it has gone negative. Note that in modular arithmetic,
"slightly negative" means exactly the same as "almost as large as the modulus (i.e., 2^N)". Now
consider the test condition ((CT - DT) mod 2^N) > SAFETY_FACTOR*2^N.

(DT_abs - OT_abs) < 2^N*(1-SAFETY_FACTOR) satisﬁes the test condition when CT_abs == OT_abs
(i.e., when the packet is launched). In modular arithmetic, 2^N*(1-SAFETY_FACTOR) == 2^N -
2^N*SAFETY_FACTOR == -2^N*(SAFETY_FACTOR). Then DT_abs - OT_abs < -2^N*(1-
SAFETY_FACTOR). Inverting the inequality, OT_abs - DT_abs > 2^N*(1-SAFETY_FACTOR), and thus
at launch CT_abs - DT_abs > 2^N*(1-SAFETY_FACTOR).

As CT_abs grows larger, CT_abs - DT_abs gets LARGER in (non-negative) modular arithmetic until
the time at which CT_ABS == DT_ABS, and suddenly CT_ABS - DT_abs becomes zero. Also
suddenly, the test condition is no longer fulﬁlled.

As CT_abs grows still larger, CT_abs > DT_abs, and we need to detect this condition as soon as
possible. Requiring the SAFETY_FACTOR enables this detection until CT_abs exceeds DT_abs by
an amount equal to SAFETY_FACTOR*2^N.

A note about "inverting the inequality". Observe that a < b implies that -a > -b on the real number
line. Also, (a - b) == -(b - a). These facts hold also for modular arithmetic.

During the times prior to the expiration of the deadline, for Safe = 2^N*SAFETY_FACTOR we
have:

(DT_abs - 2^N) < OT_abs < CT_abs < DT_abs < DT_abs+Safe

Naturally, DT_abs - 2^N == DT_abs mod 2^N == DT.

Again considering Figure 8, it is easy to see that {CT_abs - (DT_abs - 2^N)} gets larger and larger
until the time at which CT_abs = DT_abs, which is the ﬁrst time at which CT - DT == 0 mod 2^N. As
CT_abs increases past the deadline time, 0 < CT_abs - DT_abs < Safe. In this range, any
intermediate node can detect that the deadline has expired. As CT_abs increases past DT_abs
+Safe, it is no longer possible for an intermediate node to determine with certainty whether or
not the deadline time has expired. These statements also apply when reduced to modular
arithmetic in the modulus 2^N.

In particular, the test condition no longer allows detection of deadline expiration when the
current time becomes later than (DT_abs+Safe). In order to maintain correctness even for packets
that are forwarded after expiration (i.e., the 'D' ﬂag), N has to be chosen to be so large that the
test condition will not fail -- i.e., that in all scenarios of interest, the packet will be dropped before
the current time becomes equal to DT_abs+2^N*SAFETY_FACTOR.

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9034

6lo Delivery Deadline Time

June 2021

Acknowledgments

Pascal Thubert
 for suggesting the idea and encouraging the work. Thanks to
The authors thank
Shwetha Bhandari
's suggestions, which were instrumental in extending the timing information
to heterogeneous networks. The authors acknowledge the 6TiSCH WG members for their inputs
Jerry Daniel Dan Frost
on the mailing list. Special thanks to
 (Routing Directorate),
Kaufman
,
Anita Varghese
support and valuable feedback.

Seema Kumar Tal Mizrahi Avinash Mohan Shalu Rajendran
 (General Area Review Team (Gen-ART) review) for their

 (Security Directorate),
Dale Worley

Charlie

, and

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Lijo Thomas
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing
Vellayambalam
Trivandrum 695033
India
Email:

 lijo@cdac.in

Satish Anamalamudi
SRM University-AP
Amaravati Campus
Amaravati, Andhra Pradesh 522 502
India
Email:

 satishnaidu80@gmail.com

S.V.R. Anand
Indian Institute of Science
Bangalore 560012
India
Email:

 anandsvr@iisc.ac.in

Malati Hegde
Indian Institute of Science
Bangalore 560012
India
Email:

 malati@iisc.ac.in

Charles E. Perkins
Lupin Lodge
20600 Aldercroft Heights Rd.
Los Gatos CA 95033
,
United States of America
Email:

 charliep@computer.org

Thomas, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

