Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9619
1035
Standards Track
July 2024
2070-1721
R. Bellis
ISC

J. Abley
Cloudflare

RFC 9619
In the DNS, QDCOUNT Is (Usually) One

Abstract

This document updates RFC 1035 by constraining the allowed value of the QDCOUNT parameter
in DNS messages with OPCODE = 0 (QUERY) to a maximum of one, and it specifies the required
behavior when values that are not allowed are encountered.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9619
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Bellis & Abley

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9619

In the DNS, QDCOUNT Is (Usually) One

July 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology Used in This Document

3.  QDCOUNT Is (Usually) One

4.  Updates to RFC 1035

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Guidance for the Use of QDCOUNT in the DNS Specification

A.1.  OPCODE = 0 (QUERY) and 1 (IQUERY)

A.2.  OPCODE = 4 (NOTIFY)

A.3.  OPCODE = 5 (UPDATE)

A.4.  OPCODE = 6 (DNS Stateful Operations, DSO)

A.5.  Conclusion

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

3

3

4

4

4

5

5

6

6

6

6

6

7

The DNS protocol
header whose value is specified to mean the number of questions in the Question section of a
DNS message.

 includes a parameter QDCOUNT in the DNS message

[RFC1034] [RFC1035]

In a general sense, it seems perfectly plausible for the QDCOUNT parameter, an unsigned 16-bit
value, to take a considerable range of values. However, in the specific case of messages that
encode DNS queries and responses (messages with OPCODE = 0), there are other limitations
inherent in the protocol that constrain values of QDCOUNT to be either 0 or 1. In particular,
several parameters specified for DNS response messages such as AA and RCODE have no defined
meaning when the message contains multiple queries as there is no way to signal which question
those parameters relate to.

Bellis & Abley

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9619

In the DNS, QDCOUNT Is (Usually) One

July 2024

In this document, we briefly survey the existing written DNS specification; provide a description
of the semantic and practical requirements for DNS queries that naturally constrain the
allowable values of QDCOUNT; and update the DNS base specification to clarify the allowable
values of the QDCODE parameter in the specific case of DNS messages with OPCODE = 0.

2.  Terminology Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  QDCOUNT Is (Usually) One

 and many
A brief summary of the guidance provided in the existing DNS specification (
other documents) for the use of QDCOUNT can be found in Appendix A. While the specification is
clear in many cases, there is some ambiguity in the specific case of OPCODE = 0, which this
document aims to eliminate.

[RFC1035]

4.  Updates to RFC 1035

A DNS message with OPCODE = 0
greater than 1. It follows that the Question section of a DNS message with OPCODE = 0
contain more than one question.

 include a QDCOUNT parameter whose value is

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

A DNS message with OPCODE = 0 and QDCOUNT > 1
message. The value of the RCODE parameter in the response message
(FORMERR).

MUST

 be treated as an incorrectly formatted

MUST

 be set to 1

Middleboxes (e.g., firewalls) that process DNS messages in order to eliminate unwanted traffic
 treat messages with OPCODE = 0 and QDCOUNT > 1 as malformed traffic and return a
SHOULD
FORMERR response as described above. Such firewalls
0 and QDCOUNT = 0 as malformed. See

Section 4 of [RFC8906]

 for further guidance.

 treat messages with OPCODE =

MUST NOT

5.  Security Considerations

 and aims to improve interoperability
This document clarifies the DNS specification
between different DNS implementations. In general, the elimination of ambiguity seems well-
aligned with security hygiene.

[RFC1035]

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

Bellis & Abley

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9619

In the DNS, QDCOUNT Is (Usually) One

July 2024

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC1034]

[RFC1035]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3425]

[RFC8174]

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - implementation and specification" STD 13
,
RFC 1035 DOI 10.17487/RFC1035
info/rfc1035>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, November 1987,

,

,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Lawrence, D. "Obsoleting IQUERY" RFC 3425 DOI 10.17487/RFC3425
2002,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3425>

,

,

.

, November

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC1996]

[RFC2136]

[RFC5936]

[RFC7873]

[RFC8490]

[RFC8906]

,

Vixie, P. "A Mechanism for Prompt Notification of Zone Changes (DNS NOTIFY)"
RFC 1996 DOI 10.17487/RFC1996
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, August 1996,
rfc1996>

,
.

,

,

Vixie, P., Ed. Thomson, S. Rekhter, Y.
Domain Name System (DNS UPDATE)" RFC 2136 DOI 10.17487/RFC2136
1997,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2136>

J. Bound "Dynamic Updates in the

, and

, April

,

,

,

,

.

Lewis, E.
 and
DOI 10.17487/RFC5936

A. Hoenes, Ed. "DNS Zone Transfer Protocol (AXFR)" RFC 5936
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5936>
.

,
, June 2010,

,

 and

Eastlake 3rd, D.
7873 DOI 10.17487/RFC7873
,
rfc7873>

.

M. Andrews "Domain Name System (DNS) Cookies" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2016,

,

,

Bellis, R. Cheshire, S. Dickinson, J. Dickinson, S. Lemon, T.
"DNS Stateful Operations" RFC 8490 DOI 10.17487/RFC8490
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8490>

,

,

,

,

,

.

T. Pusateri

, and
, March 2019,

,

 and

Andrews, M.
Failure to Communicate" BCP 231 RFC 8906 DOI 10.17487/RFC8906
,
2020,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8906>

R. Bellis "A Common Operational Problem in DNS Servers:

.

,

, September

Bellis & Abley

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9619

In the DNS, QDCOUNT Is (Usually) One

July 2024

Appendix A.  Guidance for the Use of QDCOUNT in the DNS
Specification

The DNS specification
appropriate in various situations. A brief summary of this guidance is collated below.

 provides some guidance about the values of QDCOUNT that are

[RFC1035]

A.1.  OPCODE = 0 (QUERY) and 1 (IQUERY)

[RFC1035]
BCP 14

 significantly predates the use of the normative requirement key words specified in

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

, and parts of it are consequently somewhat open to interpretation.

Section

4.1.2 ("Question section format")

 of

[RFC1035]

 states the following about QDCOUNT:

"The section contains QDCOUNT (usually 1) entries"

[RFC1035]
The only documented exceptions within
request has "an empty question section" (QDCOUNT = 0), and the response has "zero, one, or
multiple domain names for the specified resource as QNAMEs in the question section". The
IQuery OpCode was obsoleted by

 relate to the IQuery OpCode, where the

[RFC3425]
.

In the absence of clearly expressed normative requirements, we rely on other text in
that makes use of the definite article or that implies a singular question and, by implication,
QDCOUNT = 1.

[RFC1035]

For example,

Section 4.1 of [RFC1035]

 states the following:

"the question for the name server"

and

"The question section contains fields that describe a question to a name server."

And per Section

4.1.1 ("Header section format")

 of

[RFC1035]
:

"AA: Authoritative Answer - this bit is valid in responses, and specifies that the responding
name server is an authority for the domain name in question section."

Section 5.4 of [RFC7873]

DNS Cookies (
) allow a client to receive a valid Server Cookie without
sending a specific question by sending a request (QR = 0) with OPCODE = 0 and QDCOUNT = 0,
with the resulting response also containing no question.

The DNS Zone Transfer Protocol (
optionally send a response message (QR = 1) to a standard Authoritative Transfer (AXFR) query
(OPCODE = 0, QTYPE=252) with QDCOUNT = 0 in the second or subsequent message of a multi-
message response.

) allows an authoritative server to

Section 2.2 of [RFC5936]

Bellis & Abley

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9619

In the DNS, QDCOUNT Is (Usually) One

July 2024

A.2.  OPCODE = 4 (NOTIFY)

DNS Notify
that:

[RFC1996]

 also lacks a clearly defined range of values for QDCOUNT. Section 3.7 states

"A NOTIFY request has QDCOUNT>0"

However, all other text in the RFC discusses the <QNAME, QCLASS, QTYPE> tuple in the singular
form.

A.3.  OPCODE = 5 (UPDATE)

DNS Update
be one by Section

2.3 ("Zone Section")
:

[RFC2136]

 renames the QDCOUNT field to ZOCOUNT, but the value is constrained to

"All records to be updated must be in the same zone, and therefore the Zone Section is
allowed to contain exactly one record."

A.4.  OPCODE = 6 (DNS Stateful Operations, DSO)

DNS Stateful Operations (DSO) (OpCode 6)
DNS 12-octet header by requiring all four of the section count values to be set to zero.

 preserves compatibility with the standard

[RFC8490]

A.5.  Conclusion

[RFC1035]

 that describes how other parameters in the DNS message, such as

There is no text in
AA and RCODE, should be interpreted in the case where a message includes more than one
question. An originator of a query with QDCOUNT > 1 can have no expectations of how it will be
processed, and the receiver of a response with QDCOUNT > 1 has no guidance for how it should
be interpreted.

The allowable values of QDCOUNT seem to be clearly specified for OPCODE = 4 (NOTIFY),
OPCODE = 5 (UPDATE), and OPCODE = 6 (DNS Stateful Operations, DSO). OPCODE = 1 (IQUERY) is
obsolete and OPCODE = 2 (STATUS) is not specified. OPCODE = 3 is reserved.

However, the allowable values of QDCOUNT for OPCODE = 0 (QUERY) are specified in
without the clarity of normative language, and this looseness of language results in some
ambiguity.

[RFC1035]

Acknowledgements

The clarifications in this document were prompted by questions posed by
, which
reminded the authors of earlier, similar questions and motivated them to pick up their pens.
Ondrej Sury Warren Kumari Peter Thomassen Mark Andrews Lars-Johan Liman Jim Reid
,
Niall O'Reilly
 provided useful feedback.

Ted Lemon

,

,

,

,

, and

Bellis & Abley

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9619

In the DNS, QDCOUNT Is (Usually) One

July 2024

Authors' Addresses

Ray Bellis
Internet Systems Consortium, Inc.
PO Box 360
Newmarket NH 03857
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

+1 650 423 1300
ray@isc.org

Joe Abley
Cloudflare
Amsterdam
Netherlands
Phone:
Email:

+31 6 45 56 36 34
jabley@cloudflare.com

Bellis & Abley

Standards Track

Page 7

