Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9300
6830
Standards Track
October 2022
2070-1721
D. Farinacci
lispers.net

V. Fuller
vaf.net Internet Consulting

A. Cabellos,
Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya

 Ed.

D. Meyer
1-4-5.net

D. Lewis
Cisco Systems

RFC 9300
The Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP)

Abstract

This document describes the data plane protocol for the Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP).
LISP defines two namespaces: Endpoint Identifiers (EIDs), which identify end hosts; and Routing
Locators (RLOCs), which identify network attachment points. With this, LISP effectively separates
control from data and allows routers to create overlay networks. LISP-capable routers exchange
encapsulated packets according to EID-to-RLOC mappings stored in a local Map-Cache.

LISP requires no change to either host protocol stacks or underlay routers and offers Traffic
Engineering (TE), multihoming, and mobility, among other features.

This document obsoletes RFC 6830.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9300
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Scope of Applicability

2.  Requirements Notation

3.  Definitions of Terms

4.  Basic Overview

4.1.  Deployment on the Public Internet

4.2.  Packet Flow Sequence

5.  LISP Encapsulation Details

5.1.  LISP IPv4-in-IPv4 Header Format

5.2.  LISP IPv6-in-IPv6 Header Format

5.3.  Tunnel Header Field Descriptions

6.  LISP EID-to-RLOC Map-Cache

7.  Dealing with Large Encapsulated Packets

7.1.  A Stateless Solution to MTU Handling

7.2.  A Stateful Solution to MTU Handling

8.  Using Virtualization and Segmentation with LISP

9.  Routing Locator Selection

10. Routing Locator Reachability

10.1.  Echo-Nonce Algorithm

11. EID Reachability within a LISP Site

12. Routing Locator Hashing

13. Changing the Contents of EID-to-RLOC Mappings

13.1.  Locator-Status-Bits

13.2.  Database Map-Versioning

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

14. Multicast Considerations

15. Router Performance Considerations

16. Security Considerations

17. Network Management Considerations

18. Changes since RFC 6830

19. IANA Considerations

19.1.  LISP UDP Port Numbers

20. References

20.1.  Normative References

20.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This document describes the Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP). LISP is an encapsulation
protocol built around the fundamental idea of separating the topological location of a network
[CHIAPPA]
. As a result, LISP creates two namespaces:
attachment point from the node's identity
Endpoint Identifiers (EIDs), which are used to identify end hosts (e.g., nodes or Virtual Machines);
and routable Routing Locators (RLOCs), which are used to identify network attachment points.
LISP then defines functions for mapping between the two namespaces and for encapsulating
traffic originated by devices using non-routable EIDs for transport across a network
infrastructure that routes and forwards using RLOCs. LISP encapsulation uses a dynamic form of
tunneling where no static provisioning is required or necessary.

LISP is an overlay protocol that separates control from data; this document specifies the data
plane as well as how LISP-capable routers (Tunnel Routers) exchange packets by encapsulating
them to the appropriate location. Tunnel Routers are equipped with a cache, called the Map-
Cache, that contains EID-to-RLOC mappings. The Map-Cache is populated using the LISP control
plane protocol

[RFC9301]
.

LISP does not require changes to either the host protocol stack or underlay routers. By separating
the EID from the RLOC space, LISP offers native Traffic Engineering (TE), multihoming, and
mobility, among other features.

Creation of LISP was initially motivated by discussions during the IAB-sponsored Routing and
Addressing Workshop held in Amsterdam in October 2006 (see

[RFC4984]

).

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

This document specifies the LISP data plane encapsulation and other LISP forwarding node
functionality while
[RFC7215]
be found in
management. Finally,

 specifies the LISP control plane. LISP deployment guidelines can
 describes considerations for network operational

[RFC9301]
, and
[RFC9299]

 describes the LISP architecture.

[RFC6835]

This document obsoletes RFC 6830.

1.1.  Scope of Applicability

LISP was originally developed to address the Internet-wide route scaling problem
While there are a number of approaches of interest for that problem, as LISP has been developed
and refined, a large number of other ways to use LISP have been found and are being
implemented. As such, the design and development of LISP have changed so as to focus on these
use cases. The common property of these uses is a large set of cooperating entities seeking to
communicate over the public Internet or other large underlay IP infrastructures while keeping
the addressing and topology of the cooperating entities separate from the underlay and Internet
topology, routing, and addressing.

[RFC4984]
.

2.  Requirements Notation

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Definitions of Terms

Address Family Identifier (AFI):

"AFI" is a term used to describe an address encoding in a
packet. An address family is an address format found in data plane packet headers, for
example, an IPv4 address or an IPv6 address. See
for details. An AFI value of 0 used in this specification indicates an unspecified encoded
address where the length of the address is 0 octets following the 16-bit AFI value of 0.

[AFN] [RFC2453] [RFC2677]

, and

,

,

[RFC4760]

Anycast Address:

"Anycast address" refers to the same IPv4 or IPv6 address configured and

used on multiple systems at the same time. An EID or RLOC can be an anycast address in each
of their own address spaces.

Client-side:

"Client-side" is a term used in this document to indicate a connection initiation

attempt by an end-system represented by an EID.

Egress Tunnel Router (ETR):

An ETR is a router that accepts an IP packet where the destination
address in the "outer" IP header is one of its own RLOCs. The router strips the "outer" header
and forwards the packet based on the next IP header found. In general, an ETR receives LISP-
encapsulated IP packets from the Internet on one side and sends decapsulated IP packets to
site end-systems on the other side. ETR functionality does not have to be limited to a router
device. A server host can be the endpoint of a LISP tunnel as well.

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

EID-to-RLOC Database:

The EID-to-RLOC Database is a distributed database that contains all

known EID-Prefix-to-RLOC mappings. Each potential ETR typically contains a small piece of
the database: the EID-to-RLOC mappings for the EID-Prefixes "behind" the router. These map
to one of the router's own IP addresses that are routable on the underlay. Note that there
be transient conditions when the EID-Prefix for the LISP site and Locator-Set for each EID-
Prefix may not be the same on all ETRs. This has no negative implications, since a partial set
of Locators can be used.

MAY

EID-to-RLOC Map-Cache:

The EID-to-RLOC Map-Cache is a generally short-lived, on-demand

table in an Ingress Tunnel Router (ITR) that stores, tracks, and is responsible for timing out
and otherwise validating EID-to-RLOC mappings. This cache is distinct from the full
"database" of EID-to-RLOC mappings; it is dynamic, local to the ITR(s), and relatively small,
while the database is distributed, relatively static, and much more widely scoped to LISP
nodes.

EID-Prefix:

An EID-Prefix is a power-of-two block of EIDs that are allocated to a site by an

address allocation authority. EID-Prefixes are associated with a set of RLOC addresses. EID-
Prefix allocations can be broken up into smaller blocks when an RLOC-Set is to be associated
with the larger EID-Prefix block.

End-System:

An end-system is an IPv4 or IPv6 device that originates packets with a single IPv4
or IPv6 header. The end-system supplies an EID value for the destination address field of the
IP header when communicating outside of its routing domain. An end-system can be a host
computer, a switch or router device, or any network appliance.

Endpoint ID (EID):

An EID is a 32-bit (for IPv4) or 128-bit (for IPv6) value that identifies a host.

 exchange.

[RFC3261]

[RFC1034]

 lookup or Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)

EIDs are generally only found in the source and destination address fields of the first
(innermost) LISP header of a packet. The host obtains a destination EID through a Domain
Name System (DNS)
This behavior does not change when LISP is in use. The source EID is obtained via existing
mechanisms used to set a host's "local" IP address. An EID used on the public Internet
have the same properties as any other IP address used in that manner; this means, among
other things, that it
 be unique. An EID is allocated to a host from an EID-Prefix block
associated with the site where the host is located. An EID can be used by a host to refer to
other hosts. Note that EID blocks
 be assigned in a hierarchical manner, independent of
the network topology, to facilitate scaling of the mapping database. In addition, an EID block
assigned to a site
structure is not visible to the underlay routing system. In theory, the bit string that represents
an EID for one device can represent an RLOC for a different device. When discussing other
Locator/ID separation proposals, any references to an EID in this document will refer to a
LISP EID.

 have site-local structure (subnetting) for routing within the site; this

MUST

MUST

MAY

MAY

Ingress Tunnel Router (ITR):

An ITR is a router that resides in a LISP site. Packets sent by

sources inside of the LISP site to destinations outside of the site are candidates for
encapsulation by the ITR. The ITR treats the IP destination address as an EID and performs an
EID-to-RLOC mapping lookup. The router then prepends an "outer" IP header with one of its
routable RLOCs (in the RLOC space) in the source address field and the result of the mapping
lookup in the destination address field. Note that this destination RLOC may be an

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

intermediate, proxy device that has better knowledge of the EID-to-RLOC mapping closer to
the destination EID. In general, an ITR receives IP packets from site end-systems on one side
and sends LISP-encapsulated IP packets toward the Internet on the other side.

LISP Header:

"LISP header" is a term used in this document to refer to the outer IPv4 or IPv6

header, a UDP header, and a LISP- specific 8-octet header, all of which follow the UDP header.
An ITR prepends LISP headers on packets, and an ETR strips them.

LISP Router:

A LISP router is a router that performs the functions of any or all of the following:

ITRs, ETRs, Re-encapsulating Tunneling Routers (RTRs), Proxy-ITRs (PITRs), or Proxy-ETRs
(PETRs).

LISP Site:

A LISP site is a set of routers in an edge network that are under a single technical

administration. LISP routers that reside in the edge network are the demarcation points to
separate the edge network from the core network.

Locator-Status-Bits (LSBs):

Locator-Status-Bits are present in the LISP header. They are used by
ITRs to inform ETRs about the up/down status of all ETRs at the local site. These bits are used
as a hint to convey up/down router status and not path reachability status. The LSBs can be
verified by use of one of the Locator reachability algorithms described in Section 10. An ETR
MUST

 rate limit the action it takes when it detects changes in the Locator-Status-Bits.

Proxy-ETR (PETR):

A PETR is defined and described in

[RFC6832]

. A PETR acts like an ETR but

does so on behalf of LISP sites that send packets to destinations at non-LISP sites.

Proxy-ITR (PITR):

A PITR is defined and described in

[RFC6832]

. A PITR acts like an ITR but does

so on behalf of non-LISP sites that send packets to destinations at LISP sites.

Recursive Tunneling:

Recursive Tunneling occurs when a packet has more than one LISP IP

 be employed to implement Traffic Engineering or
header. Additional layers of tunneling
other rerouting as needed. When this is done, an additional "outer" LISP header is added, and
the original RLOCs are preserved in the "inner" header.

MAY

Re-encapsulating Tunneling Router (RTR):

An RTR acts like an ETR to remove a LISP header,

then acts as an ITR to prepend a new LISP header. This is known as Re-encapsulating
Tunneling. Doing this allows a packet to be rerouted by the RTR without adding the overhead
of additional tunnel headers. When using multiple mapping database systems, care must be
taken to not create re-encapsulation loops through misconfiguration.

Route-Returnability:

Route-returnability is an assumption that the underlying routing system

will deliver packets to the destination. When combined with a nonce that is provided by a
sender and returned by a receiver, this limits off-path data insertion. A route-returnability
check is verified when a message is sent with a nonce, another message is returned with the
same nonce, and the destination of the original message appears as the source of the returned
message.

Routing Locator (RLOC):

 of an
Egress Tunnel Router (ETR). An RLOC is the output of an EID-to-RLOC mapping lookup. An EID
maps to zero or more RLOCs. Typically, RLOCs are numbered from blocks that are assigned to

An RLOC is an IPv4 address

 or IPv6 address

[RFC8200]

[RFC0791]

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

a site at each point to which it attaches to the underlay network, where the topology is
defined by the connectivity of provider networks. Multiple RLOCs can be assigned to the same
ETR device or to multiple ETR devices at a site.

Server-side:

"Server-side" is a term used in this document to indicate that a connection

initiation attempt is being accepted for a destination EID.

xTR:

An xTR is a reference to an ITR or ETR when direction of data flow is not part of the

context description. "xTR" refers to the router that is the tunnel endpoint and is used
synonymously with the term "Tunnel Router". For example, "An xTR can be located at the
Customer Edge (CE) router" indicates both ITR and ETR functionality at the CE router.

4.  Basic Overview

One key concept of LISP is that end-systems operate the same way when LISP is not in use as well
as when LISP is in use. The IP addresses that hosts use for tracking sockets and connections, and
for sending and receiving packets, do not change. In LISP terminology, these IP addresses are
called Endpoint Identifiers (EIDs).

Routers continue to forward packets based on IP destination addresses. When a packet is LISP
encapsulated, these addresses are referred to as RLOCs. Most routers along a path between two
hosts will not change; they continue to perform routing/forwarding lookups on the destination
addresses. For routers between the source host and the ITR as well as routers from the ETR to the
destination host, the destination address is an EID. For the routers between the ITR and the ETR,
the destination address is an RLOC.

Another key LISP concept is the "Tunnel Router". A Tunnel Router prepends LISP headers on
host-originated packets and strips them prior to final delivery to their destination. The IP
addresses in this "outer header" are RLOCs. During end-to-end packet exchange between two
Internet hosts, an ITR prepends a new LISP header to each packet, and an ETR strips the new
header. The ITR performs EID-to-RLOC lookups to determine the routing path to the ETR, which
has the RLOC as one of its IP addresses.

Some basic rules governing LISP are:

•

End-systems only send to addresses that are EIDs. EIDs are typically IP addresses assigned to
hosts (other types of EIDs are supported by LISP; see
End-systems don't know that addresses are EIDs versus RLOCs but assume that packets get to
their intended destinations. In a system where LISP is deployed, LISP routers intercept EID-
addressed packets and assist in delivering them across the network core where EIDs cannot
be routed. The procedure a host uses to send IP packets does not change.

 for further information).

[RFC8060]

•

LISP routers prepend and strip outer headers with RLOC addresses. See Section 4.2 for
details.

•

RLOCs are always IP addresses assigned to routers, preferably topologically oriented
addresses from provider Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) blocks.

•

When a router originates packets, it
When acting as a host (e.g., when terminating a transport session such as Secure Shell (SSH),

 use as a source address either an EID or RLOC.

MAY

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

TELNET, or the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)), it
explicitly assigned for that purpose. An EID that identifies the router as a host
used as an RLOC; an EID is only routable within the scope of a site. A typical BGP
configuration might demonstrate this "hybrid" EID/RLOC usage where a router could use its
"host-like" EID to terminate internal BGP (iBGP) sessions to other routers in a site while at the
same time using RLOCs to terminate external BGP (eBGP) sessions to routers outside the site.

 use an EID that is
MUST NOT

MAY

 be

•

Packets with EIDs in them are not expected to be delivered end to end in the absence of an
EID-to-RLOC mapping operation. They are expected to be used locally for intra-site
communication or to be encapsulated for inter-site communication.

•

MAY

EIDs
Autonomous System (AS).

 also be structured (subnetted) in a manner suitable for local routing within an

MAY

An additional LISP header
 be prepended to packets by a TE-ITR when rerouting of the path
for a packet is desired. A potential use case for this would be an ISP router that needs to perform
Traffic Engineering for packets flowing through its network. In such a situation, termed
"Recursive Tunneling", an ISP transit acts as an additional ITR, and the destination RLOC it uses
for the new prepended header would be either a TE-ETR within the ISP (along an intra-ISP traffic-
engineered path) or a TE-ETR within another ISP (an inter-ISP traffic-engineered path, where an
agreement to build such a path exists).

 that a maximum of two LISP headers can be prepended to a packet. For initial

In order to avoid excessive packet overhead as well as possible encapsulation loops, it is
RECOMMENDED
LISP deployments, it is assumed that two headers is sufficient, where the first prepended header
is used at a site for separation of location and identity and the second prepended header is used
inside a service provider for Traffic Engineering purposes.

Tunnel Routers can be placed fairly flexibly in a multi-AS topology. For example, the ITR for a
particular end-to-end packet exchange might be the first-hop or default router within a site for
the source host. Similarly, the ETR might be the last-hop router directly connected to the
destination host. As another example, perhaps for a VPN service outsourced to an ISP by a site,
the ITR could be the site's border router at the service provider attachment point. Mixing and
matching of site-operated, ISP-operated, and other Tunnel Routers is allowed for maximum
flexibility.

4.1.  Deployment on the Public Internet

Several of the mechanisms in this document are intended for deployment in controlled, trusted
environments and are insecure for use over the public Internet. In particular, on the public
Internet, xTRs:

• MUST

 set the N-, L-, E-, and V-bits in the LISP header (Section 5.1) to zero.

• MUST NOT

 use Locator-Status-Bits and Echo-Nonce, as described in Section 10, for RLOC

reachability. Instead, they

MUST

 rely solely on control plane methods.

• MUST NOT

 use gleaning or Locator-Status-Bits and Map-Versioning, as described in Section

13, to update the EID-to-RLOC mappings. Instead, they
methods.

MUST

 rely solely on control plane

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

4.2.  Packet Flow Sequence

This section provides an example of the unicast packet flow, also including control plane
information as specified in

. The example also assumes the following conditions:

[RFC9301]

•

Source host "host1.abc.example.com" is sending a packet to "host2.xyz.example.com", exactly
as it would if the site was not using LISP.

•

Each site is multihomed, so each Tunnel Router has an address (RLOC) assigned from the
service provider address block for each provider to which that particular Tunnel Router is
attached.

•

The ITR(s) and ETR(s) are directly connected to the source and destination, respectively, but
the source and destination can be located anywhere in the LISP site.

•

A Map-Request is sent for an external destination when the destination is not found in the
forwarding table or matches a default route. Map-Requests are sent to the mapping database
system by using the LISP control plane protocol documented in

[RFC9301]

.

•

Map-Replies are sent on the underlying routing system topology, using the control plane
protocol

[RFC9301]

.

Client host1.abc.example.com wants to communicate with server host2.xyz.example.com:

1.

host1.abc.example.com wants to open a TCP connection to host2.xyz.example.com. It does a
DNS lookup on host2.xyz.example.com. An A/AAAA record is returned. This address is the
destination EID. The locally assigned address of host1.abc.example.com is used as the source
EID. An IPv4 or IPv6 packet is built and forwarded through the LISP site as a normal IP
packet until it reaches a LISP ITR.

2.

The LISP ITR must be able to map the destination EID to an RLOC of one of the ETRs at the
destination site. A method for doing this is to send a LISP Map-Request, as specified in
[RFC9301]

.

3.

The Mapping System helps forward the Map-Request to the corresponding ETR. When the
Map-Request arrives at one of the ETRs at the destination site, it will process the packet as a
control message.

4.

The ETR looks at the destination EID of the Map-Request and matches it against the prefixes
in the ETR's configured EID-to-RLOC mapping database. This is the list of EID-Prefixes the
ETR is supporting for the site it resides in. If there is no match, the Map-Request is dropped.
Otherwise, a LISP Map-Reply is returned to the ITR.

5.

The ITR receives the Map-Reply message, parses the message, and stores the mapping
information from the packet. This information is stored in the ITR's EID-to-RLOC Map-Cache.
Note that the Map-Cache is an on-demand cache. An ITR will manage its Map-Cache in such a
way that optimizes for its resource constraints.

6.

Subsequent packets from host1.abc.example.com to host2.xyz.example.com will have a LISP
header prepended by the ITR using the appropriate RLOC as the LISP header destination
address learned from the ETR. Note that the packet
one that returned the Map-Reply due to the source site's hashing policy or the destination
site's Locator-Set policy.

 be sent to a different ETR than the

MAY

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

7.

The ETR receives these packets directly (since the destination address is one of its assigned IP
addresses), checks the validity of the addresses, strips the LISP header, and forwards packets
to the attached destination host.

8.

In order to defer the need for a mapping lookup in the reverse direction, it is
 for
an ETR to create a cache entry that maps the source EID (inner-header source IP address) to
the source RLOC (outer-header source IP address) in a received LISP packet. Such a cache
entry is termed a "glean mapping" and only contains a single RLOC for the EID in question.
 be verified by sending a LISP
More complete information about additional RLOCs
Map-Request for that EID. Both the ITR and the ETR
 also influence the decision the other
makes in selecting an RLOC.

OPTIONAL

SHOULD

MAY

5.  LISP Encapsulation Details

Since additional tunnel headers are prepended, the packet becomes larger and can exceed the
 in IPv4 that packets do
MTU of any link traversed from the ITR to the ETR. It is
not get fragmented as they are encapsulated by the ITR. Instead, the packet is dropped and an
ICMPv4 Unreachable / Fragmentation Needed message is returned to the source.

RECOMMENDED

In the case when fragmentation is needed, it is
support for one of the proposed fragmentation and reassembly schemes. Two existing schemes
are detailed in Section 7.

 that implementations provide

RECOMMENDED

Since IPv4 or IPv6 addresses can be either EIDs or RLOCs, the LISP architecture supports IPv4
EIDs with IPv6 RLOCs (where the inner header is in IPv4 packet format and the outer header is in
IPv6 packet format) or IPv6 EIDs with IPv4 RLOCs (where the inner header is in IPv6 packet
format and the outer header is in IPv4 packet format). The next sub-sections illustrate packet
formats for the homogeneous case (IPv4-in-IPv4 and IPv6-in-IPv6), but all 4 combinations
be supported. Additional types of EIDs are defined in

[RFC8060]
.

MUST

As LISP uses UDP encapsulation to carry traffic between xTRs across the Internet, implementors
should be aware of the provisions of
congestion control for UDP tunneling.

, especially those given in its Section 3.1.11 on

[RFC8085]

Implementors are encouraged to consider UDP checksum usage guidelines in
[RFC8085]

 when it is desirable to protect UDP and LISP headers against corruption.

Section 3.4 of

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

5.1.  LISP IPv4-in-IPv4 Header Format

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  / |Version|  IHL  |    DSCP   |ECN|          Total Length         |
 /  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   |         Identification        |Flags|      Fragment Offset    |
|   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
OH  |  Time to Live | Protocol = 17 |         Header Checksum       |
|   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   |                    Source Routing Locator                     |
 \  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  \ |                 Destination Routing Locator                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  / |       Source Port = xxxx      |       Dest Port = 4341        |
UDP +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  \ |           UDP Length          |        UDP Checksum           |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
L   |N|L|E|V|I|R|K|K|            Nonce/Map-Version                  |
I \ +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
S / |                 Instance ID/Locator-Status-Bits               |
P   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  / |Version|  IHL  |    DSCP   |ECN|          Total Length         |
 /  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   |         Identification        |Flags|      Fragment Offset    |
|   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
IH  |  Time to Live |    Protocol   |         Header Checksum       |
|   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   |                           Source EID                          |
 \  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  \ |                         Destination EID                       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

    IHL = IP-Header-Length

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

5.2.  LISP IPv6-in-IPv6 Header Format

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  / |Version|    DSCP   |ECN|           Flow Label                  |
 /  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   |         Payload Length        | Next Header=17|   Hop Limit   |
v   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                                                               |
O   +                                                               +
u   |                                                               |
t   +                     Source Routing Locator                    +
e   |                                                               |
r   +                                                               +
    |                                                               |
H   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
d   |                                                               |
r   +                                                               +
    |                                                               |
^   +                  Destination Routing Locator                  +
|   |                                                               |
 \  +                                                               +
  \ |                                                               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  / |       Source Port = xxxx      |       Dest Port = 4341        |
UDP +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  \ |           UDP Length          |        UDP Checksum           |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
L   |N|L|E|V|I|R|K|K|            Nonce/Map-Version                  |
I \ +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
S / |                 Instance ID/Locator-Status-Bits               |
P   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  / |Version|    DSCP   |ECN|           Flow Label                  |
 /  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
/   |         Payload Length        |  Next Header  |   Hop Limit   |
v   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                                                               |
I   +                                                               +
n   |                                                               |
n   +                          Source EID                           +
e   |                                                               |
r   +                                                               +
    |                                                               |
H   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
d   |                                                               |
r   +                                                               +
    |                                                               |
^   +                        Destination EID                        +
\   |                                                               |
 \  +                                                               +
  \ |                                                               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

5.3.  Tunnel Header Field Descriptions

Inner Header (IH):
originating host
EIDs.

The inner header is the header on the datagram received from the

[RFC0791] [RFC8200] [RFC2474]

. The source and destination IP addresses are

Outer Header (OH):

The outer header is a new header prepended by an ITR. The address fields

contain RLOCs obtained from the ingress router's EID-to-RLOC Map-Cache. The IP protocol
number is "UDP (17)" from
according to rules listed in Sections 7.1 and 7.2.

. The setting of the Don't Fragment (DF) bit 'Flags' field is

[RFC0768]

UDP Header:

The UDP header contains an ITR-selected source port when encapsulating a

packet. See Section 12 for details on the hash algorithm used to select a source port based on
the 5-tuple of the inner header. The destination port
assigned port value 4341.

 be set to the well-known IANA-

MUST

UDP Checksum:

The 'UDP Checksum' field
 or IPv6 encapsulation

SHOULD

 be transmitted as zero by an ITR for either
. When a packet with a zero UDP

MUST

[RFC0768]

[RFC6935] [RFC6936]

 accept the packet for decapsulation. When an

IPv4
checksum is received by an ETR, the ETR
ITR transmits a non-zero value for the UDP checksum, it
value in this field. When an ETR receives a packet with a non-zero UDP checksum, it
choose to verify the checksum value. If it chooses to perform such verification and the
 be silently dropped. If the ETR either chooses not to
verification fails, the packet
perform the verification or performs the verification successfully, the packet
 be
accepted for decapsulation. The handling of UDP zero checksums over IPv6 for all tunneling
protocols, including LISP, is subject to the applicability statement in

 send a correctly computed
MAY

[RFC6936]

MUST

MUST

MUST

.

UDP Length:

The 'UDP Length' field is set for an IPv4-encapsulated packet to be the sum of the

inner-header IPv4 Total Length plus the UDP and LISP header lengths. For an IPv6-
encapsulated packet, the 'UDP Length' field is the sum of the inner-header IPv6 Payload
Length, the size of the IPv6 header (40 octets), and the size of the UDP and LISP headers.

N:

The N-bit is the nonce-present bit. When this bit is set to 1, the low-order 24 bits of the first

32 bits of the LISP header contain a nonce. See Section 10.1 for details. Both N- and V-bits
MUST NOT
Map-Version' field as having a nonce value present.

 be set in the same packet. If they are, a decapsulating ETR

 treat the 'Nonce/

MUST

L:

The L-bit is the 'Locator-Status-Bits' field enabled bit. When this bit is set to 1, the Locator-
Status-Bits in the second 32 bits of the LISP header are in use.

 x 1 x x 0 x x x
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|N|L|E|V|I|R|K|K|            Nonce/Map-Version                  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                      Locator-Status-Bits                      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

E:

V:

 be ignored and has no meaning when
The E-bit is the Echo-Nonce-request bit. This bit
the N-bit is set to 0. When the N-bit is set to 1 and this bit is set to 1, an ITR is requesting that
the nonce value in the 'Nonce' field be echoed back in LISP-encapsulated packets when the
ITR is also an ETR. See Section 10.1 for details.

MUST

The V-bit is the Map-Version present bit. When this bit is set to 1, the N-bit
to
header is encoded in this case as:

 for more details on Database Map-Versioning. This bit indicates that the LISP

[RFC9302]

MUST

 be 0. Refer

 0 x 0 1 x x x x
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|N|L|E|V|I|R|K|K|  Source Map-Version   |   Dest Map-Version    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Instance ID/Locator-Status-Bits               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

I:

The I-bit is the Instance ID bit. See Section 8 for more details. When this bit is set to 1, the
'Locator-Status-Bits' field is reduced to 8 bits and the high-order 24 bits are used as an
Instance ID. If the L-bit is set to 0, then the low-order 8 bits are transmitted as zero and
ignored on receipt. The format of the LISP header would look like this:

 x x x x 1 x x x
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|N|L|E|V|I|R|K|K|            Nonce/Map-Version                  |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                 Instance ID                   |     LSBs      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

R:

The R-bit is a reserved and unassigned bit for future use. It
MUST

 be ignored on receipt.

MUST

 be set to 0 on transmit and

KK:

The KK-bits are a 2-bit field used when encapsulated packets are encrypted. The field is set
[RFC8061]

to 00 when the packet is not encrypted. See

 for further information.

LISP Nonce:

The LISP 'Nonce' field is a 24-bit value that is randomly generated by an ITR when

the N-bit is set to 1. Nonce generation algorithms are an implementation matter but are
required to generate different nonces when sending to different RLOCs. The nonce is also
used when the E-bit is set to request the nonce value to be echoed by the other side when
packets are returned. When the E-bit is clear but the N-bit is set, a remote ITR is either
echoing a previously requested Echo-Nonce or providing a random nonce. See Section 10.1 for
more details. Finally, when both the N- and V-bits are not set (N=0, V=0), then both the 'Nonce'
and 'Map-Version' fields are set to 0 and ignored on receipt.

LISP Locator-Status-Bits (LSBs):

When the L-bit is also set, the 'Locator-Status-Bits' field in the
LISP header is set by an ITR to indicate to an ETR the up/down status of the Locators in the
source site. Each RLOC in a Map-Reply is assigned an ordinal value from 0 to n-1 (when there

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

are n RLOCs in a mapping entry). The Locator-Status-Bits are numbered from 0 to n-1 from
the least significant bit of the field. The field is 32 bits when the I-bit is set to 0 and is 8 bits
when the I-bit is set to 1. When a Locator-Status-Bit is set to 1, the ITR is indicating to the ETR
that the RLOC associated with the bit ordinal has up status. See Section 10 for details on how
an ITR can determine the status of the ETRs at the same site. When a site has multiple EID-
Prefixes that result in multiple mappings (where each could have a different Locator-Set), the
Locator-Status-Bits setting in an encapsulated packet
 reflect the mapping for the EID-
Prefix that the inner-header source EID address matches (longest-match). If the LSB for an
anycast Locator is set to 1, then there is at least one RLOC with that address, and the ETR is
considered 'up'.

MUST

When doing ITR/PITR encapsulation:

•

The outer-header 'Time to Live' field (or 'Hop Limit' field, in the case of IPv6)
copied from the inner-header 'Time to Live' field.

SHOULD

 be

•

The outer-header IPv4 'Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP)' field (or 'Traffic Class' field,
in the case of IPv6)
Class' field, in the case of IPv6) to the outer header. Guidelines for this can be found in
[RFC2983]

 be copied from the inner-header IPv4 'DSCP' field (or 'Traffic

SHOULD

.

•

The IPv4 'Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN)' field and bits 6 and 7 of the IPv6 'Traffic
Class' field require special treatment in order to avoid discarding indications of congestion
as specified in

[RFC6040]

.

When doing ETR/PETR decapsulation:

•

The inner-header IPv4 'Time to Live' field (or 'Hop Limit' field, in the case of IPv6)
copied from the outer-header 'Time to Live'/'Hop Limit' field when the Time to Live / Hop
Limit value of the outer header is less than the Time to Live / Hop Limit value of the inner
header. Failing to perform this check can cause the Time to Live / Hop Limit of the inner
header to increment across encapsulation/decapsulation cycles. This check is also performed
when doing initial encapsulation, when a packet comes to an ITR or PITR destined for a LISP
site.

MUST

 be

•

The outer-header IPv4 'Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP)' field (or 'Traffic Class' field,
in the case of IPv6)
Class' field, in the case of IPv6) to the inner header. Guidelines for this can be found in
[RFC2983]

 be copied from the outer-header 'IPv4 DSCP' field (or 'Traffic

SHOULD

.

•

The IPv4 'Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN)' field and bits 6 and 7 of the IPv6 'Traffic
Class' field require special treatment in order to avoid discarding indications of congestion
as specified in
. Note that implementations exist that copy the 'ECN' field from the
outer header to the inner header, even though
It is
[RFC6040]

 that implementations change to support the behavior discussed in

 does not recommend this behavior.

RECOMMENDED

[RFC6040]

[RFC6040]

.

Note that if an ETR/PETR is also an ITR/PITR and chooses to re-encapsulate after decapsulating,
the net effect of this is that the new outer header will carry the same Time to Live as the old
outer header minus 1.

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

Copying the Time to Live serves two purposes: first, it preserves the distance the host intended
the packet to travel; second, and more importantly, it provides for suppression of looping packets
in the event there is a loop of concatenated tunnels due to misconfiguration.

Some xTRs, PETRs, and PITRs perform re-encapsulation operations and need to treat ECN
functions in a special way. Because the re-encapsulation operation is a sequence of two
operations, namely a decapsulation followed by an encapsulation, the ECN bits
as described above for these two operations.

MUST

 be treated

The LISP data plane protocol is not backwards compatible with
explicit support for introducing future protocol changes (e.g., an explicit version field). However,
the LISP control plane
new LISP Canonical Address Format (LCAF) types
aware of the data plane capabilities of an ETR and encapsulate accordingly. The specification of
the new LCAF types, the new LCAF mechanisms, and their use are out of the scope of this
document.

 allows an ETR to register data plane capabilities by means of

. In this way, an ITR can be made

 and does not have

[RFC9301]

[RFC6830]

[RFC8060]

6.  LISP EID-to-RLOC Map-Cache

ITRs and PITRs maintain an on-demand cache, referred to as the LISP EID-to-RLOC Map-Cache,
that contains mappings from EID-Prefixes to Locator-Sets. The cache is used to encapsulate
packets from the EID space to the corresponding RLOC network attachment point.

When an ITR/PITR receives a packet from inside of the LISP site to destinations outside of the
site, a longest-prefix match lookup of the EID is done to the Map-Cache.

When the lookup succeeds, the Locator-Set retrieved from the Map-Cache is used to send the
packet to the EID's topological location.

[RFC9301]

If the lookup fails, the ITR/PITR needs to retrieve the mapping using the LISP control plane
protocol
. While the mapping is being retrieved, the ITR/PITR can either drop or buffer
the packets. This document does not have specific recommendations about the action to be taken.
It is up to the deployer to consider whether or not it is desirable to buffer packets and deploy a
LISP implementation that offers the desired behavior. Once the mapping is resolved, it is then
stored in the local Map-Cache to forward subsequent packets addressed to the same EID-Prefix.

The Map-Cache is a local cache of mappings; entries are expired based on the associated Time to
Live. In addition, entries can be updated with more current information; see Section 13 for
further information on this. Finally, the Map-Cache also contains reachability information about
EIDs and RLOCs and uses LISP reachability information mechanisms to determine the
reachability of RLOCs; see Section 10 for the specific mechanisms.

7.  Dealing with Large Encapsulated Packets

This section proposes two mechanisms to deal with packets that exceed the Path MTU (PMTU)
between the ITR and ETR.

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

It is left to the implementor to decide if the stateless or stateful mechanism
implemented. Both or neither can be used, since it is a local decision in the ITR regarding how to
deal with MTU issues, and sites can interoperate with differing mechanisms.

SHOULD

 be

Both stateless and stateful mechanisms also apply to Re-encapsulating and Recursive Tunneling,
so any actions below referring to an ITR also apply to a TE-ITR.

7.1.  A Stateless Solution to MTU Handling

An ITR stateless solution to handle MTU issues is described as follows:

1.

Define H to be the size, in octets, of the outer header an ITR prepends to a packet. This
includes the UDP and LISP header lengths.

2.

Define L to be the size, in octets, of the maximum-sized packet an ITR can send to an ETR
without the need for the ITR or any intermediate routers to fragment the packet. The
network administrator of the LISP deployment has to determine what the suitable value of L
is, so as to make sure that no MTU issues arise.

3.

Define an architectural constant S for the maximum size of a packet, in octets, an ITR
receive from the source so the effective MTU can be met. That is, L = S + H.

MUST

When an ITR receives a packet from a site-facing interface and adds H octets worth of
encapsulation to yield a packet size greater than L octets (meaning the received packet size was
greater than S octets from the source), it resolves the MTU issue by first splitting the original
packet into 2 equal-sized fragments. A LISP header is then prepended to each fragment. The size
of the encapsulated fragments is then (S/2 + H), which is less than the ITR's estimate of the PMTU
between the ITR and its correspondent ETR.

When an ETR receives encapsulated fragments, it treats them as two individually encapsulated
packets. It strips the LISP headers and then forwards each fragment to the destination host of the
destination site. The two fragments are reassembled at the destination host into the single IP
datagram that was originated by the source host. Note that reassembly can happen at the ETR if
the encapsulated packet was fragmented at or after the ITR.

MUST

This behavior
 be implemented by the ITR only when the source host originates a packet
with the 'DF' field of the IP header set to 0. When the 'DF' field of the IP header is set to 1 or the
packet is an IPv6 packet originated by the source host, the ITR will drop the packet when the size
(adding in the size of the encapsulation header) is greater than L and send an ICMPv4
Unreachable / Fragmentation Needed or ICMPv6 Packet Too Big (PTB) message to the source with
a value of S, where S is (L - H).

When the outer-header encapsulation uses an IPv4 header, an implementation
DF bit to 1 so ETR fragment reassembly can be avoided. An implementation
MAY
such headers to 0 if it has good reason to believe there are unresolvable PMTU issues between
the sending ITR and the receiving ETR.

SHOULD
 set the DF bit in

 set the

RECOMMENDED

It is
fragmentation issues can be found in

[RFC4459]
.

 that L be defined as 1500. Additional information about in-network MTU and

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

7.2.  A Stateful Solution to MTU Handling

An ITR stateful solution to handle MTU issues is described as follows:

1.

The ITR will keep state of the effective MTU for each Locator per Map-Cache entry. The
effective MTU is what the core network can deliver along the path between the ITR and ETR.

2.

When an IPv4-encapsulated packet with the DF bit set to 1 exceeds what the core network
can deliver, one of the intermediate routers on the path will send an ICMPv4 Unreachable /
Fragmentation Needed message to the ITR. The ITR will parse the ICMP message to
determine which Locator is affected by the effective MTU change and then record the new
effective MTU value in the Map-Cache entry.

3.

When a packet is received by the ITR from a source inside of the site and the size of the
packet is greater than the effective MTU stored with the Map-Cache entry associated with the
destination EID the packet is for, the ITR will send an ICMPv4 Unreachable / Fragmentation
Needed message back to the source. The packet size advertised by the ITR in the ICMP
message is the effective MTU minus the LISP encapsulation length.

Even though this mechanism is stateful, it has advantages over the stateless IP fragmentation
mechanism, by not involving the destination host with reassembly of ITR fragmented packets.

, can result in suboptimal behavior in the presence of ICMP packet losses or off-path

Please note that using ICMP packets for PMTU discovery, as described in
[RFC8201]
attackers that spoof ICMP. Possible mitigations include ITRs and ETRs cooperating on MTU probe
packets
match the echoed packet in an ICMP Fragmentation Needed / PTB message.

 or ITRs storing the beginning of large packets to verify that they

[RFC4821] [RFC8899]

[RFC1191]

 and

8.  Using Virtualization and Segmentation with LISP

There are several cases where segregation is needed at the EID level. For instance, this is the case
for deployments containing overlapping addresses, traffic isolation policies, or multi-tenant
virtualization. For these and other scenarios where segregation is needed, Instance IDs are used.

An Instance ID can be carried in a LISP-encapsulated packet. An ITR that prepends a LISP header
will copy a 24-bit value used by the LISP router to uniquely identify the address space. The value
is copied to the 'Instance ID' field of the LISP header, and the I-bit is set to 1.

When an ETR decapsulates a packet, the Instance ID from the LISP header is used as a table
identifier to locate the forwarding table to use for the inner destination EID lookup.

For example, an 802.1Q VLAN tag or VPN identifier could be used as a 24-bit Instance ID. See
[LISP-VPN]
protected; an on-path attacker can modify the tags and, for instance, allow communications
between logically isolated VLANs.

 for details regarding LISP VPN use cases. Please note that the Instance ID is not

Participants within a LISP deployment must agree on the meaning of Instance ID values. The
source and destination EIDs

 belong to the same Instance ID.

MUST

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

The Instance ID

SHOULD NOT

 be used with overlapping IPv6 EID addresses.

9.  Routing Locator Selection

The Map-Cache contains the state used by ITRs and PITRs to encapsulate packets. When an ITR/
PITR receives a packet from inside the LISP site to a destination outside of the site, a longest-
prefix match lookup of the EID is done to the Map-Cache (see Section 6). The lookup returns a
single Locator-Set containing a list of RLOCs corresponding to the EID's topological location. Each
RLOC in the Locator-Set is associated with a Priority and Weight; this information is used to
select the RLOC to encapsulate.

The RLOC with the lowest Priority is selected. An RLOC with Priority 255 means that it
MUST NOT
be used for forwarding. When multiple RLOCs have the same Priority, then the Weight states how
to load-balance traffic among them. The value of the Weight represents the relative weight of the
total packets that match the mapping entry.

The following are different scenarios for choosing RLOCs and the controls that are available:

•

The server-side returns one RLOC. The client-side can only use one RLOC. The server-side has
complete control of the selection.

•

The server-side returns a list of RLOCs where a subset of the list has the same best Priority.
The client can only use the subset list according to the weighting assigned by the server-side.
In this case, the server-side controls both the subset list and load splitting across its
members. The client-side can use RLOCs outside of the subset list if it determines that the
subset list is unreachable (unless RLOCs are set to a Priority of 255). Some sharing of control
exists: the server-side determines the destination RLOC list and load distribution while the
client-side has the option of using alternatives to this list if RLOCs in the list are unreachable.

•

The server-side sets a Weight of zero for the RLOC subset list. In this case, the client-side can
choose how the traffic load is spread across the subset list. See Section 12 for details on load-
sharing mechanisms. Control is shared by the server-side determining the list and the client-
side determining load distribution. Again, the client can use alternative RLOCs if the server-
provided list of RLOCs is unreachable.

•

Either side (more likely the server-side ETR) decides to "glean" the RLOCs. For example, if the
server-side ETR gleans RLOCs, then the client-side ITR gives the server-side ETR
responsibility for bidirectional RLOC reachability and preferability. Server-side ETR gleaning
of the client-side ITR RLOC is done by caching the inner-header source EID and the outer-
header source RLOC of received packets. The client-side ITR controls how traffic is returned
and can, as an alternative, use an outer-header source RLOC, which then can be added to the
list the server-side ETR uses to return traffic. Since no Priority or Weights are provided using
this method, the server-side ETR
 assume that each client-side ITR RLOC uses the same
best Priority with a Weight of zero. In addition, since EID-Prefix encoding cannot be
conveyed in data packets, the EID-to-RLOC Map-Cache on Tunnel Routers can grow very
large. Gleaning has several important considerations. A "gleaned" Map-Cache entry is only
stored and used for a
MUST

 period of 3 seconds, pending verification. Verification
 be performed by sending a Map-Request to the source EID (the inner-header IP source

RECOMMENDED

MUST

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

address) of the received encapsulated packet. A reply to this "verifying Map-Request" is used
to fully populate the Map-Cache entry for the "gleaned" EID and is stored and used for the
time indicated in the 'Time to Live' field of a received Map-Reply. When a verified Map-Cache
entry is stored, data gleaning no longer occurs for subsequent packets that have a source EID
that matches the EID-Prefix of the verified entry. This "gleaning" mechanism
used over the public Internet and
SHOULD
Refer to Section 16 for security issues regarding this mechanism.

 be
 only be used in trusted and closed deployments.

MUST NOT

[RFC9301]
 for the Locator record is set to 1. When the R-bit is set to 0, an ITR or PITR
 encapsulate to the RLOC. Neither the information contained in a Map-Reply nor that stored

RLOCs that appear in EID-to-RLOC Map-Reply messages are assumed to be reachable when the R-
bit
NOT
in the mapping database system provides reachability information for RLOCs. Note that
reachability is not part of the Mapping System and is determined using one or more of the RLOC
reachability algorithms described in the next section.

MUST

10.  Routing Locator Reachability

Several data plane mechanisms for determining RLOC reachability are currently defined. Please
note that additional reachability mechanisms based on the control plane are defined in
[RFC9301]
.

1.

MAY

 examine the Locator-Status-Bits in the LISP header of an encapsulated data

An ETR
packet received from an ITR. If the ETR is also acting as an ITR and has traffic to return to the
original ITR site, it can use this status information to help select an RLOC.

2.

When an ETR receives an encapsulated packet from an ITR, the source RLOC from the outer
header of the packet is likely to be reachable. Please note that in some scenarios the RLOC
from the outer header can be a spoofable field.

3.

An ITR/ETR pair can use the Echo-Noncing Locator reachability algorithms described in this
section.

When determining Locator up/down reachability by examining the Locator-Status-Bits from the
LISP-encapsulated data packet, an ETR will receive an up-to-date status from an encapsulating
ITR about reachability for all ETRs at the site. CE-based ITRs at the source site can determine
reachability relative to each other using the site IGP as follows:

•

Under normal circumstances, each ITR will advertise a default route into the site IGP.

•

If an ITR fails or if the upstream link to its Provider Edge fails, its default route will either
time out or be withdrawn.

Each ITR can thus observe the presence or lack of a default route originated by the others to
determine the Locator-Status-Bits it sets for them.

When ITRs at the site are not deployed in CE routers, the IGP can still be used to determine the
reachability of Locators, provided they are injected into the IGP. This is typically done when a /32
address is configured on a loopback interface.

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

RLOCs listed in a Map-Reply are numbered with ordinals 0 to n-1. The Locator-Status-Bits in a
LISP-encapsulated packet are numbered from 0 to n-1 starting with the least significant bit. For
example, if an RLOC listed in the 3rd position of the Map-Reply goes down (ordinal value 2), then
all ITRs at the site will clear the 3rd least significant bit (xxxx x0xx) of the 'Locator-Status-Bits'
field for the packets they encapsulate.

When an xTR decides to use Locator-Status-Bits to affect reachability information, it acts as
follows: ETRs decapsulating a packet will check for any change in the 'Locator-Status-Bits' field.
When a bit goes from 1 to 0, the ETR, if also acting as an ITR, will refrain from encapsulating
packets to an RLOC that is indicated as down. It will only resume using that RLOC if the
corresponding Locator-Status-Bit returns to a value of 1. Locator-Status-Bits are associated with a
Locator-Set per EID-Prefix. Therefore, when a Locator becomes unreachable, the Locator-Status-
Bit that corresponds to that Locator's position in the list returned by the last Map-Reply will be
set to zero for that particular EID-Prefix.

MUST NOT

 be used over the public Internet and

Locator-Status-Bits
trusted and closed deployments. In addition, Locator-Status-Bits
Versioning
referring to different RLOCs than intended. Refer to Section 16 for security issues regarding this
mechanism.

 to prevent race conditions where Locator-Status-Bits are interpreted as

 only be used in
 be coupled with Map-

[RFC9302]

SHOULD

SHOULD

If an ITR encapsulates a packet to an ETR and the packet is received and decapsulated by the
ETR, it is implied, but not confirmed by the ITR, that the ETR's RLOC is reachable. In most cases,
the ETR can also reach the ITR but cannot assume this to be true, due to the possibility of path
asymmetry. In the presence of unidirectional traffic flow from an ITR to an ETR, the ITR
 use the lack of return traffic as an indication that the ETR is unreachable. Instead, it
NOT
use an alternate mechanism to determine reachability.

MUST

SHOULD

The security considerations of Section 16 related to data plane reachability apply to the data
plane RLOC reachability mechanisms described in this section.

10.1.  Echo-Nonce Algorithm

When data flows bidirectionally between Locators from different sites, a data plane mechanism
called "nonce echoing" can be used to determine reachability between an ITR and ETR. When an
 in
ITR wants to solicit a nonce echo, it sets the N- and E-bits and places a 24-bit nonce
the LISP header of the next encapsulated data packet.

[RFC4086]

When this packet is received by the ETR, the encapsulated packet is forwarded as normal. When
the ETR is an xTR (co-located as an ITR), it then sends a data packet to the ITR (when it is an xTR
co-located as an ETR) and includes the nonce received earlier with the N-bit set and E-bit cleared.
The ITR sees this "echoed nonce" and knows that the path to and from the ETR is up.

The ITR will set the E-bit and N-bit for every packet it sends while in the Echo-Nonce-request
state. The time the ITR waits to process the echoed nonce before it determines that the path is
unreachable is variable and is a choice left for the implementation.

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

If the ITR is receiving packets from the ETR but does not see the nonce echoed while being in the
Echo-Nonce-request state, then the path to the ETR is unreachable. This decision
overridden by other Locator reachability algorithms. Once the ITR determines that the path to
the ETR is down, it can switch to another Locator for that EID-Prefix.

MAY

 be

Note that "ITR" and "ETR" are relative terms here. Both devices
and ETR functionality for the Echo-Nonce mechanism to operate.

MUST

 be implementing both ITR

MAY

 both go into the Echo-Nonce-request state at the same time. The number of

The ITR and ETR
packets sent or the time during which Echo-Nonce request packets are sent is an
implementation-specific setting. In this case, an xTR receiving the Echo-Nonce request packets
will suspend the Echo-Nonce state and set up an 'Echo-Nonce-request-state' timer. After the
'Echo-Nonce-request-state' timer expires, it will resume the Echo-Nonce state.

This mechanism does not completely solve the forward path reachability problem, as traffic may
be unidirectional. That is, the ETR receiving traffic at a site
 not be the same device as an ITR
that transmits traffic from that site, or the site-to-site traffic is unidirectional so there is no ITR
returning traffic.

MAY

The Echo-Nonce algorithm is bilateral. That is, if one side sets the E-bit and the other side is not
enabled for Echo-Noncing, then the echoing of the nonce does not occur and the requesting side
may erroneously consider the Locator unreachable. An ITR
encapsulated data packet when it knows the ETR is enabled for Echo-Noncing. This is conveyed
by the E-bit in the Map-Reply message.

 set the E-bit in an

SHOULD

Many implementations default to not advertising that they are Echo-Nonce capable in Map-Reply
messages, and so RLOC-Probing tends to be used for RLOC reachability.

The Echo-Nonce mechanism
in trusted and closed deployments. Refer to Section 16 for security issues regarding this
mechanism.

 be used over the public Internet and

MUST NOT

MUST

 only be used

11.  EID Reachability within a LISP Site

MAY

 be multihomed using two or more ETRs. The hosts and infrastructure within a site

A site
will be addressed using one or more EID-Prefixes that are mapped to the RLOCs of the relevant
ETRs in the Mapping System. One possible failure mode is for an ETR to lose reachability to one
or more of the EID-Prefixes within its own site. When this occurs when the ETR sends Map-
Replies, it can clear the R-bit associated with its own Locator. And when the ETR is also an ITR, it
can clear its Locator-Status-Bit in the encapsulation data header.

It is recognized that there are no simple solutions to the site partitioning problem because it is
hard to know which part of the EID-Prefix range is partitioned and which Locators can reach any
sub-ranges of the EID-Prefixes. Note that this is not a new problem introduced by the LISP
architecture. At the time of this writing, this problem exists when a multihomed site uses BGP to
advertise its reachability upstream.

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

12.  Routing Locator Hashing

When an ETR provides an EID-to-RLOC mapping in a Map-Reply message that is stored in the
Map-Cache of a requesting ITR, the Locator-Set for the EID-Prefix
 contain different Priority
and Weight values for each Routing Locator Address. When more than one best Priority Locator
exists, the ITR can decide how to load-share traffic against the corresponding Locators.

MAY

The following hash algorithm
an EID for the EID-to-RLOC mapping:

MAY

 be used by an ITR to select a Locator for a packet destined to

1.

Either a source and destination address hash or the commonly used 5-tuple hash can be
used. The commonly used 5-tuple hash includes the source and destination addresses; source
and destination TCP, UDP, or Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) port numbers; and
the IP protocol number field or IPv6 next-protocol fields of a packet that a host originates
from within a LISP site. When a packet is not a TCP, UDP, or SCTP packet, the source and
destination addresses only from the header are used to compute the hash.

2.

Take the hash value and divide it by the number of Locators stored in the Locator-Set for the
EID-to-RLOC mapping.

3.

The remainder will yield a value of 0 to "number of Locators minus 1". Use the remainder to
select the Locator in the Locator-Set.

The specific hash algorithm the ITR uses for load-sharing is out of scope for this document and
does not prevent interoperability.

SHOULD

 be the same for all packets belonging to the same flow. Also note that

The source port
when a packet is LISP encapsulated, the source port number in the outer UDP header needs to be
set. Selecting a hashed value allows core routers that are attached to Link Aggregation Groups
(LAGs) to load-split the encapsulated packets across member links of such LAGs. Otherwise, core
routers would see a single flow, since packets have a source address of the ITR, for packets that
are originated by different EIDs at the source site. A suggested setting for the source port number
computed by an ITR is a 5-tuple hash function on the inner header, as described above. The
source port

 be the same for all packets belonging to the same flow.

SHOULD

Many core router implementations use a 5-tuple hash to decide how to balance packet load
across members of a LAG. The 5-tuple hash includes the source and destination addresses of the
packet and the source and destination ports when the protocol number in the packet is TCP or
UDP. For this reason, UDP encoding is used for LISP encapsulation. In this scenario, when the
outer header is IPv6, the flow label
[RFC6438]
compute the hash.

 also be set following the procedures specified in
 be used to

. When the inner header is IPv6 and the flow label is not zero, it

MAY

MAY

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

13.  Changing the Contents of EID-to-RLOC Mappings

Since the LISP architecture uses a caching scheme to retrieve and store EID-to-RLOC mappings,
the only way an ITR can get a more up-to-date mapping is to re-request the mapping. However,
the ITRs do not know when the mappings change, and the ETRs do not keep track of which ITRs
requested their mappings. For scalability reasons, it is desirable to maintain this approach, but
implementors need to provide a way for ETRs to change their mappings and inform the sites that
are currently communicating with the ETR site using such mappings.

This section defines two data plane mechanism for updating EID-to-RLOC mappings. Additionally,
the Solicit-Map-Request (SMR) control plane updating mechanism is specified in

[RFC9301]
.

13.1.  Locator-Status-Bits

Locator-Status-Bits (LSBs) can also be used to keep track of the Locator status (up or down) when
EID-to-RLOC mappings are changing. When LSBs are used in a LISP deployment, all LISP Tunnel
Routers
effectively xTRs). In this section, the term "source xTR" is used to refer to the xTR setting the LSB
and "destination xTR" is used to refer to the xTR receiving the LSB. The procedure is as follows:

 implement both ITR and ETR capabilities (therefore, all Tunnel Routers are

MUST

1.

When a Locator record is added or removed from the Locator-Set, the source xTR will signal
this by sending an SMR control plane message
 to the destination xTR. At this point,
 use the LSB field, when the L-bit is 0, since the destination xTR site
the source xTR
has outdated information. The source xTR will set up a 'use-LSB' timer.

[RFC9301]

MUST NOT

2.

As defined in
retrieve the updated EID-to-RLOC mappings by sending a Map-Request.

, upon reception of the SMR message, the destination xTR will

[RFC9301]

3.

When the 'use-LSB' timer expires, the source xTR can use the LSB again with the destination
xTR to signal the Locator status (up or down). The specific value for the 'use-LSB' timer
depends on the LISP deployment; the 'use-LSB' timer needs to be large enough for the
destination xTR to retrieve the updated EID-to-RLOC mappings. A
the 'use-LSB' timer is 5 minutes.

RECOMMENDED

 value for

13.2.  Database Map-Versioning

When there is unidirectional packet flow between an ITR and ETR, and the EID-to-RLOC
mappings change on the ETR, it needs to inform the ITR so encapsulation to a removed Locator
can stop and can instead be started to a new Locator in the Locator-Set.

An ETR can send Map-Reply messages carrying a Map-Version Number
 in an EID-
Record. This is known as the Destination Map-Version Number. ITRs include the Destination
Map-Version Number in packets they encapsulate to the site.

[RFC9302]

An ITR, when it encapsulates packets to ETRs, can convey its own Map- Version Number. This is
known as the Source Map-Version Number.

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

When presented in EID-Records of Map-Register messages
good way for the Map-Server
synchronized according to the Map-Version Number.

[RFC9301]

 to assure that all ETRs for a site registering to it are

[RFC9301]

, a Map-Version Number is a

See

[RFC9302]

 for a more detailed analysis and description of Database Map-Versioning.

14.  Multicast Considerations

A multicast group address, as defined in the original Internet architecture, is an identifier of a
grouping of topologically independent receiver host locations. The address encoding itself does
not determine the location of the receiver(s). The multicast routing protocol and the network-
based state the protocol creates determine where the receivers are located.

In the context of LISP, a multicast group address is both an EID and an RLOC. Therefore, no
specific semantic or action needs to be taken for a destination address, as it would appear in an
IP header. Therefore, a group address that appears in an inner IP header built by a source host
will be used as the destination EID. The outer IP header (the destination RLOC address),
prepended by a LISP router, can use the same group address as the destination RLOC, use a
multicast or unicast RLOC obtained from a Mapping System lookup, or use other means to
determine the group address mapping.

With respect to the source RLOC address, the ITR prepends its own IP address as the source
address of the outer IP header, just like it would if the destination EID was a unicast address. This
source RLOC address, like any other RLOC address,

 be routable on the underlay.

MUST

There are two approaches for LISP-Multicast
the underlay with no support from the Mapping System and another that uses only unicast
routing in the underlay with support from the Mapping System. See
respectively, for details. Details for LISP-Multicast and interworking with non-LISP sites are
, respectively.
described in

[RFC6831]

[RFC6832]

[RFC6831]

[RFC6831]

: one that uses native multicast routing in

[RFC8378]
,

 and

 and

15.  Router Performance Considerations

LISP is designed to be very "hardware based and forwarding friendly". A few implementation
techniques can be used to incrementally implement LISP:

•

When a tunnel-encapsulated packet is received by an ETR, the outer destination address may
not be the address of the router. This makes it challenging for the control plane to get
packets from the hardware. This may be mitigated by creating special Forwarding
Information Base (FIB) entries for the EID-Prefixes of EIDs served by the ETR (those for
which the router provides an RLOC translation). These FIB entries are marked with a flag
indicating that control plane processing
SHOULD
testing for particular IP protocol number values is not necessary. There are a few proven
cases where no changes to existing deployed hardware were needed to support the LISP data
plane.

 be performed. The forwarding logic of

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

•

On an ITR, prepending a new IP header consists of adding more octets to a Message
Authentication Code (MAC) rewrite string and prepending the string as part of the outgoing
encapsulation procedure. Routers that support Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE)
tunneling

 may already support this action.

 or 6to4 tunneling

[RFC2784]

[RFC3056]

•

A packet's source address or the interface on which the packet was received can be used to
select Virtual Routing and Forwarding (VRF). The VRF system's routing table can be used to
find EID-to-RLOC mappings.

For performance issues related to Map-Cache management, see Section 16.

16.  Security Considerations

In what follows, we highlight security considerations that apply when LISP is deployed in
environments such as those specified in Section 1.1.

The optional gleaning mechanism is offered to directly obtain a mapping from the LISP-
encapsulated packets. Specifically, an xTR can learn the EID-to-RLOC mapping by inspecting the
source RLOC and source EID of an encapsulated packet and insert this new mapping into its Map-
Cache. An off-path attacker can spoof the source EID address to divert the traffic sent to the
victim's spoofed EID. If the attacker spoofs the source RLOC, it can mount a DoS attack by
redirecting traffic to the spoofed victim's RLOC, potentially overloading it.

The LISP data plane defines several mechanisms to monitor RLOC data plane reachability; in this
context, Locator-Status-Bits, nonce-present bits, and Echo-Nonce bits of the LISP encapsulation
header can be manipulated by an attacker to mount a DoS attack. An off-path attacker able to
spoof the RLOC and/or nonce of a victim's xTR can manipulate such mechanisms to declare false
information about the RLOC's reachability status.

An example of such attacks is when an off-path attacker can exploit the Echo-Nonce mechanism
by sending data packets to an ITR with a random nonce from an ETR's spoofed RLOC. Note that
the attacker only has a small window of time within which to guess a valid nonce that the ITR is
requesting to be echoed. The goal is to convince the ITR that the ETR's RLOC is reachable even
when it may not be reachable. If the attack is successful, the ITR believes the wrong reachability
status of the ETR's RLOC until RLOC-Probing detects the correct status. This time frame is on the
order of tens of seconds. This specific attack can be mitigated by preventing RLOC spoofing in the
network by deploying Unicast Reverse Path Forwarding (uRPF) per
. In order to
exploit this vulnerability, the off-path attacker must also send Echo-Nonce packets at a high rate.
If the nonces have never been requested by the ITR, it can protect itself from erroneous
reachability attacks.

BCP 84 [RFC8704]

A LISP-specific uRPF check is also possible. When decapsulating, an ETR can check that the
source EID and RLOC are valid EID-to-RLOC mappings by checking the Mapping System.

Map-Versioning is a data plane mechanism used to signal to a peering xTR that a local EID-to-
RLOC mapping has been updated so that the peering xTR uses a LISP control plane signaling
message to retrieve a fresh mapping. This can be used by an attacker to forge the 'Map-Version'

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

field of a LISP-encapsulated header and force an excessive amount of signaling between xTRs
that may overload them. Further security considerations on Map-Versioning can be found in
[RFC9302]
.

Locator-Status-Bits, the Echo-Nonce mechanism, and Map-Versioning
public Internet and
Locator-Status-Bits
Locator-Status-Bits are interpreted as referring to different RLOCs than intended.

 only be used in trusted and closed deployments. In addition,
 be coupled with Map-Versioning to prevent race conditions where

MUST NOT

SHOULD

SHOULD

 be used over the

LISP implementations and deployments that permit outer header fragments of IPv6 LISP-
encapsulated packets as a means of dealing with MTU issues should also use implementation
techniques in ETRs to prevent this from being a DoS attack vector. Limits on the number of
fragments awaiting reassembly at an ETR, RTR, or PETR, and the rate of admitting such
fragments, may be used.

17.  Network Management Considerations

Considerations for network management tools exist so the LISP protocol suite can be
[RFC6835]
.
operationally managed. These mechanisms can be found in

[RFC7052]

 and

18.  Changes since RFC 6830

For implementation considerations, the following changes have been made to this document
since

 was published:

[RFC6830]

•

It is no longer mandated that a maximum number of 2 LISP headers be prepended to a
packet. If there is an application need for more than 2 LISP headers, an implementation can
support more. However, it is
prepended to a packet.

 that a maximum of 2 LISP headers can be

RECOMMENDED

•

The 3 reserved flag bits in the LISP header have been allocated for
. The low-order
2 bits of the 3-bit field (now named the KK-bits) are used as a key identifier. The 1 remaining
bit is still documented as reserved and unassigned.

[RFC8061]

•

Data plane gleaning for creating Map-Cache entries has been made optional. Any ITR
implementations that depend on or assume that the remote ETR is gleaning should not do so.
This does not create any interoperability problems, since the control plane Map-Cache
population procedures are unilateral and are the typical method for populating the Map-
Cache.

•

Most of the changes to this document, which reduce its length, are due to moving the LISP
control plane messaging and procedures to

[RFC9301]

.

19.  IANA Considerations

This section provides guidance to the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) regarding
registration of values related to this data plane LISP specification, in accordance with
BCP 26
[RFC8126]
.

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

19.1.  LISP UDP Port Numbers

IANA has allocated UDP port number 4341 for the LISP data plane. IANA has updated the
description for UDP port 4341 as follows:

Service Name

Port Number

Transport Protocol Description

Reference

lisp-data

4341

udp

LISP Data Packets

RFC 9300

Table 1

20.  References

20.1.  Normative References

[RFC0768]

[RFC0791]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2474]

[RFC2983]

[RFC6040]

[RFC6438]

[RFC6830]

[RFC6831]

,

Postel, J. "User Datagram Protocol" STD 6 RFC 768 DOI 10.17487/RFC0768
August 1980,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc768>

,

,

,

.

,

,

Postel, J. "Internet Protocol" STD 5 RFC 791 DOI 10.17487/RFC0791
1981,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc791>

,

,

.

, September

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Nichols, K. Blake, S. Baker, F.
Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers" RFC 2474 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2474

D. Black "Definition of the Differentiated
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2474>

, December 1998,

, and

,

,

,

.

Black, D. "Differentiated Services and Tunnels" RFC 2983 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC2983
, October 2000,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2983>

.

,

,

Briscoe, B. "Tunnelling of Explicit Congestion Notification" RFC 6040 DOI
10.17487/RFC6040

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6040>

, November 2010,

,

,

,

.

 and

Carpenter, B.
Multipath Routing and Link Aggregation in Tunnels" RFC 6438 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6438

S. Amante "Using the IPv6 Flow Label for Equal Cost

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6438>

, November 2011,

,

,

,

.

,

Farinacci, D. Fuller, V. Meyer, D.
Protocol (LISP)" RFC 6830 DOI 10.17487/RFC6830
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6830>

, and

,

.

,

,

D. Lewis "The Locator/ID Separation
, January 2013,

<https://

,

S. Venaas "The Locator/ID Separation
Farinacci, D. Meyer, D. Zwiebel, J.
Protocol (LISP) for Multicast Environments" RFC 6831 DOI 10.17487/RFC6831
January 2013,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6831>

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

[RFC8378]

[RFC8704]

[RFC9301]

[RFC9302]

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

.

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2017,

,

,

Moreno, V.
 and
Multicast" RFC 8378 DOI 10.17487/RFC8378
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8378>

.

D. Farinacci "Signal-Free Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP)

,

, May 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Sriram, K. Montgomery, D.
, and
Reverse Path Forwarding" BCP 84 RFC 8704 DOI 10.17487/RFC8704
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8704>
2020,

J. Haas "Enhanced Feasible-Path Unicast

,

.

,

, February

,

Farinacci, D. Maino, F. Fuller, V.
Protocol (LISP) Control Plane" RFC 9301 DOI 10.17487/RFC9301
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9301>

, and

,

,

.

A. Cabellos, Ed. "Locator/ID Separation

,

, October 2022,

Iannone, L. Saucez, D.
,
(LISP) Map-Versioning" RFC 9302 DOI 10.17487/RFC9302
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9302>

, and
,

,
.

,

O. Bonaventure "Locator/ID Separation Protocol

, October 2022,

<https://

20.2.  Informative References

[AFN]

[CHIAPPA]

[LISP-VPN]

[RFC1034]

[RFC1191]

[RFC2453]

,

IANA "Address Family Numbers" <http://www.iana.org/assignments/address-
family-numbers>

,

.

Chiappa, J. "Endpoints and Endpoint Names: A Proposed Enhancement to the
,
Internet Architecture"
endpoints.txt>

<http://mercury.lcs.mit.edu/~jnc/tech/

, 1999,

.

D. Farinacci "LISP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" Work in

,

 and

Moreno, V.
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-lisp-vpn-10
,
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-lisp-vpn-10>

,

.

, 3 October 2022,

<https://

Mockapetris, P. "Domain names - concepts and facilities" STD 13 RFC 1034 DOI
10.17487/RFC1034

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1034>

, November 1987,

,

,

,

.

Mogul, J.
RFC1191

 and
, November 1990,

S. Deering "Path MTU discovery" RFC 1191 DOI 10.17487/

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1191>

,

,

.

Malkin, G. "RIP Version 2" STD 56 RFC 2453 DOI 10.17487/RFC2453
,
1998,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2453>

,

.

,

, November

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

[RFC2677]

[RFC2784]

[RFC3056]

[RFC3261]

[RFC4086]

[RFC4459]

[RFC4760]

[RFC4821]

[RFC4984]

[RFC6832]

[RFC6835]

[RFC6935]

[RFC6936]

J. Luciani "Definitions of Managed Objects for the
Greene, M. Cucchiara, J.
,
,
NBMA Next Hop Resolution Protocol (NHRP)" RFC 2677 DOI 10.17487/RFC2677
,
August 1999,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2677>

, and

.

,

,

,

Farinacci, D. Li, T. Hanks, S. Meyer, D.
,
,
Encapsulation (GRE)" RFC 2784 DOI 10.17487/RFC2784
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2784>

, and

,

,

.

P. Traina "Generic Routing

, March 2000,

<https://

 and

Carpenter, B.
,
3056 DOI 10.17487/RFC3056
,
rfc3056>

.

K. Moore "Connection of IPv6 Domains via IPv4 Clouds" RFC

,

, February 2001,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Rosenberg, J. Schulzrinne, H. Camarillo, G. Johnston, A. Peterson, J. Sparks, R.
Handley, M.
, and
10.17487/RFC3261

,
E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
,
, June 2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Schiller, J.
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, and
,

,

,

.

S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for

,

, June 2005,

<https://

,

Savola, P. "MTU and Fragmentation Issues with In-the-Network Tunneling" RFC
4459 DOI 10.17487/RFC4459
,
rfc4459>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, April 2006,

,

.

,

Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
,
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>

, and

,

,

.

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

Mathis, M.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4821

J. Heffner "Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery" RFC 4821
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4821>

, March 2007,

 and

,

,

,

Meyer, D., Ed. Zhang, L., Ed.
,
Routing and Addressing" RFC 4984 DOI 10.17487/RFC4984
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4984>

, and

,

,

,

.

K. Fall, Ed. "Report from the IAB Workshop on

, September 2007,

,

Lewis, D. Meyer, D. Farinacci, D.
ID Separation Protocol (LISP) and Non-LISP Sites" RFC 6832 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6832

V. Fuller "Interworking between Locator/
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6832>

, January 2013,

, and

,

,

,

.

Farinacci, D.
(LIG)" RFC 6835 DOI 10.17487/RFC6835
,
editor.org/info/rfc6835>

 and
,

,

.

D. Meyer "The Locator/ID Separation Protocol Internet Groper

, January 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

Eubanks, M. Chimento, P.
,
Tunneled Packets" RFC 6935 DOI 10.17487/RFC6935
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6935>

, and
,

,

.

M. Westerlund "IPv6 and UDP Checksums for

,

, April 2013,

<https://

 and

Fairhurst, G.
UDP Datagrams with Zero Checksums" RFC 6936 DOI 10.17487/RFC6936
2013,

M. Westerlund "Applicability Statement for the Use of IPv6

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6936>

,

,

,

.

, April

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

[RFC7052]

[RFC7215]

[RFC8060]

[RFC8061]

[RFC8085]

[RFC8201]

[RFC8899]

[RFC9299]

,

Schudel, G. Jain, A.
RFC 7052 DOI 10.17487/RFC7052
,
rfc7052>
.

, and

V. Moreno "Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP) MIB"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2013,

,

,

Jakab, L. Cabellos-Aparicio, A. Coras, F. Domingo-Pascual, J.
,
,
"Locator/Identifier Separation Protocol (LISP) Network Element Deployment
Considerations" RFC 7215 DOI 10.17487/RFC7215
editor.org/info/rfc7215>
.

, April 2014,

D. Lewis

, and

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,

Farinacci, D. Meyer, D.
RFC 8060 DOI 10.17487/RFC8060
info/rfc8060>

, and

,

.

J. Snijders "LISP Canonical Address Format (LCAF)"
,

,

, February 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Farinacci, D.
,
 and
Confidentiality" RFC 8061 DOI 10.17487/RFC8061
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8061>

,

.

B. Weis "Locator/ID Separation Protocol (LISP) Data-Plane

, February 2017,

<https://

,

Eggert, L. Fairhurst, G.
, and
8085 DOI 10.17487/RFC8085
,
rfc8085>

.

G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
,
, March 2017,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

McCann, J. Deering, S. Mogul, J.
,
version 6" STD 87 RFC 8201 DOI 10.17487/RFC8201
, July 2017,
editor.org/info/rfc8201>

R. Hinden, Ed. "Path MTU Discovery for IP
<https://www.rfc-

, and

,
,

,

.

,

,

,

Fairhurst, G. Jones, T. Tüxen, M. Rüngeler, I.
,
Layer Path MTU Discovery for Datagram Transports" RFC 8899 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8899

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8899>

T. Völker "Packetization

, September 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

D. Saucez, Ed. "An Architectural Introduction to the Locator/ID

 and

Cabellos, A.
,
Separation Protocol (LISP)" RFC 9299 DOI 10.17487/RFC9299
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9299>

,

,

.

, October 2022,

Acknowledgments

An initial thank you goes to
consultation continues to provide value to the LISP authors.

Dave Oran

 for planting the seeds for the initial ideas for LISP. His

A special and appreciative thank you goes to
 for providing architectural impetus
over the past decades on separation of location and identity, as well as detailed reviews of the
LISP architecture and documents, coupled with enthusiasm for making LISP a practical and
incremental transition for the Internet.

Noel Chiappa

The original authors would like to gratefully acknowledge many people who have contributed
Scott Brim Andrew Partan
,
discussions and ideas to the making of this proposal. They include
John Zwiebel Jason Schiller Lixia Zhang Dorian Kim Peter Schoenmaker Vijay Gill Geoff
Huston David Conrad Mark Handley Ron Bonica Ted Seely Mark Townsley Chris Morrow
,
Brian Weis Dave McGrew Peter Lothberg Dave Thaler Eliot Lear Shane Amante Ved Kafle
,
Olivier Bonaventure Luigi Iannone Robin Whittle Brian Carpenter Joel Halpern Terry

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Manderson Roger Jorgensen Ran Atkinson Stig Venaas Iljitsch van Beijnum Roland Bless Dana
Blair Bill Lynch Marc Woolward Damien Saucez Damian Lezama Attilla De Groot Parantap
Lahiri David Black Roque Gagliano Isidor Kouvelas Jesper Skriver Fred Templin Margaret
Wasserman Sam Hartman Michael Hofling Pedro Marques Jari Arkko Gregg Schudel Srinivas
,
Subramanian Amit Jain Xu Xiaohu Dhirendra Trivedi Yakov Rekhter John Scudder John
Drake Dimitri Papadimitriou Ross Callon Selina Heimlich Job Snijders Vina Ermagan Fabio
Maino Victor Moreno Chris White Clarence Filsfils Alia Atlas Florin Coras
Rodriguez
.

,
Alberto

, and

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

This work originated in the Routing Research Group (RRG) of the IRTF. An individual submission
was converted into the IETF LISP Working Group document that became this RFC.

, the Internet Area AD at
The LISP Working Group would like to give a special thanks to
the time that the set of LISP documents was being prepared for IESG Last Call, for his meticulous
reviews and detailed commentaries on the 7 Working Group Last Call documents progressing
toward Standards Track RFCs.

Jari Arkko

,

The current authors would like to give a sincere thank you to the people who helped put LISP on
the Standards Track in the IETF. They include
Fabio Maino Scott Bradner Kyle Rose Takeshi Takahashi Sarah Banks Pete Resnick Colin
Perkins Mirja Kühlewind Francis Dupont Benjamin Kaduk Eric Rescorla Alvaro Retana Alexey
,
Melnikov Alissa Cooper Suresh Krishnan Alberto Rodriguez-Natal Vina Ermagan Mohamed
Boucadair Brian Trammell Sabrina Tanamal
. The contributions they offered
greatly added to the security, scale, and robustness of the LISP architecture and protocols.

Joel Halpern Luigi Iannone Deborah Brungard

John Drake

, and

,
,

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Dino Farinacci
lispers.net
San Jose CA
,
United States of America
Email:

 farinacci@gmail.com

Vince Fuller
vaf.net Internet Consulting
Email:

 vince.fuller@gmail.com

Dave Meyer
1-4-5.net
Email:

 dmm@1-4-5.net

Darrel Lewis
Cisco Systems
San Jose CA
United States of America
Email:

 darlewis@cisco.com

,

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9300

LISP

October 2022

editor
)

Albert Cabellos (
Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya
c/ Jordi Girona s/n
08034 Barcelona
Spain
Email:

 acabello@ac.upc.edu

Farinacci, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

