Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9221
Standards Track
March 2022
2070-1721
T. Pauly
Apple Inc.

E. Kinnear
Apple Inc.

D. Schinazi
Google LLC

RFC 9221
An Unreliable Datagram Extension to QUIC

Abstract

This document deﬁnes an extension to the QUIC transport protocol to add support for sending
and receiving unreliable datagrams over a QUIC connection.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9221
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9221

QUIC Datagrams

March 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Speciﬁcation of Requirements

2.  Motivation

3.  Transport Parameter

4.  Datagram Frame Types

5.  Behavior and Usage

5.1.  Multiplexing Datagrams

5.2.  Acknowledgement Handling

5.3.  Flow Control

5.4.  Congestion Control

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  QUIC Transport Parameter

7.2.  QUIC Frame Types

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

The QUIC transport protocol
transmitting reliable streams of application data. QUIC uses various frame types to transmit data
within packets, and each frame type deﬁnes whether the data it contains will be retransmitted.
Streams of reliable application data are sent using STREAM frames.

 provides a secure, multiplexed connection for

[RFC9000]

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9221

QUIC Datagrams

March 2022

Some applications, particularly those that need to transmit real-time data, prefer to transmit
data unreliably. In the past, these applications have built directly upon UDP
transport and have often added security with DTLS
transmitting unreliable application data provides another option for secure datagrams with the
added beneﬁt of sharing the cryptographic and authentication context used for reliable streams.

 as a
. Extending QUIC to support

[RFC0768]

[RFC6347]

This document deﬁnes two new DATAGRAM QUIC frame types that carry application data
without requiring retransmissions.

1.1.  Speciﬁcation of Requirements

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

2.  Motivation

Transmitting unreliable data over QUIC provides beneﬁts over existing solutions:

•

Applications that want to use both a reliable stream and an unreliable ﬂow to the same peer
can beneﬁt by sharing a single handshake and authentication context between a reliable
QUIC stream and a ﬂow of unreliable QUIC datagrams. This can reduce the latency required
for handshakes compared to opening both a TLS connection and a DTLS connection.

•

QUIC uses a more nuanced loss recovery mechanism than the DTLS handshake. This can
allow loss recovery to occur more quickly for QUIC data.

•

QUIC datagrams are subject to QUIC congestion control. Providing a single congestion
control for both reliable and unreliable data can be more eﬀective and eﬃcient.

These features can be useful for optimizing audio/video streaming applications, gaming
applications, and other real-time network applications.

Unreliable QUIC datagrams can also be used to implement an IP packet tunnel over QUIC, such as
for a Virtual Private Network (VPN). Internet-layer tunneling protocols generally require a
reliable and authenticated handshake followed by unreliable secure transmission of IP packets.
This can, for example, require a TLS connection for the control data and DTLS for tunneling IP
packets. A single QUIC connection could support both parts with the use of unreliable datagrams
in addition to reliable streams.

3.  Transport Parameter

Support for receiving the DATAGRAM frame types is advertised by means of a QUIC transport
parameter (name=max_datagram_frame_size, value=0x20). The max_datagram_frame_size
transport parameter is an integer value (represented as a variable-length integer) that represents
the maximum size of a DATAGRAM frame (including the frame type, length, and payload) the
endpoint is willing to receive, in bytes.

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9221

QUIC Datagrams

March 2022

The default for this parameter is 0, which indicates that the endpoint does not support
DATAGRAM frames. A value greater than 0 indicates that the endpoint supports the DATAGRAM
frame types and is willing to receive such frames on this connection.

MUST NOT

 send DATAGRAM frames until it has received the
An endpoint
max_datagram_frame_size transport parameter with a non-zero value during the handshake (or
during a previous handshake if 0-RTT is used). An endpoint
that are larger than the max_datagram_frame_size value it has received from its peer. An
endpoint that receives a DATAGRAM frame when it has not indicated support via the transport
parameter
Similarly, an endpoint that receives a DATAGRAM frame that is larger than the value it sent in its
max_datagram_frame_size transport parameter
type PROTOCOL_VIOLATION.

 terminate the connection with an error of type PROTOCOL_VIOLATION.

 terminate the connection with an error of

 send DATAGRAM frames

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

For most uses of DATAGRAM frames, it is
max_datagram_frame_size transport parameter to indicate that this endpoint will accept any
DATAGRAM frame that ﬁts inside a QUIC packet.

 to send a value of 65535 in the

RECOMMENDED

The max_datagram_frame_size transport parameter is a unidirectional limit and indication of
support of DATAGRAM frames. Application protocols that use DATAGRAM frames
only negotiate and use them in a single direction.

 choose to

MAY

MAY

 store the value of the server's max_datagram_frame_size

When clients use 0-RTT, they
transport parameter. Doing so allows the client to send DATAGRAM frames in 0-RTT packets.
When servers decide to accept 0-RTT data, they
transport parameter greater than or equal to the value they sent to the client in the connection
where they sent them the NewSessionTicket message. If a client stores the value of the
max_datagram_frame_size transport parameter with their 0-RTT state, they
the new value of the max_datagram_frame_size transport parameter sent by the server in the
handshake is greater than or equal to the stored value; if not, the client
connection with error PROTOCOL_VIOLATION.

 send a max_datagram_frame_size

 terminate the

 validate that

MUST

MUST

MUST

Application protocols that use datagrams
max_datagram_frame_size transport parameter. If datagram support is integral to the
application, the application protocol can fail the handshake if the max_datagram_frame_size
transport parameter is not present.

 deﬁne how they react to the absence of the

MUST

4.  Datagram Frame Types

DATAGRAM frames are used to transmit application data in an unreliable manner. The Type ﬁeld
in the DATAGRAM frame takes the form 0b0011000X (or the values 0x30 and 0x31). The least
signiﬁcant bit of the Type ﬁeld in the DATAGRAM frame is the LEN bit (0x01), which indicates
whether there is a Length ﬁeld present: if this bit is set to 0, the Length ﬁeld is absent and the
Datagram Data ﬁeld extends to the end of the packet; if this bit is set to 1, the Length ﬁeld is
present.

DATAGRAM frames are structured as follows:

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9221

QUIC Datagrams

March 2022

DATAGRAM Frame {
  Type (i) = 0x30..0x31,
  [Length (i)],
  Datagram Data (..),
}

Figure 1: DATAGRAM Frame Format

DATAGRAM frames contain the following ﬁelds:

Length:

A variable-length integer specifying the length of the Datagram Data ﬁeld in bytes. This

ﬁeld is present only when the LEN bit is set to 1. When the LEN bit is set to 0, the Datagram
Data ﬁeld extends to the end of the QUIC packet. Note that empty (i.e., zero-length) datagrams
are allowed.

Datagram Data:

The bytes of the datagram to be delivered.

5.  Behavior and Usage

When an application sends a datagram over a QUIC connection, QUIC will generate a new
DATAGRAM frame and send it in the ﬁrst available packet. This frame
possible (as determined by factors like congestion control, described below) and
coalesced with other frames.

SHOULD

MAY

 be

 be sent as soon as

When a QUIC endpoint receives a valid DATAGRAM frame, it
application immediately, as long as it is able to process the frame and can store the contents in
memory.

 deliver the data to the

SHOULD

Like STREAM frames, DATAGRAM frames contain application data and
either 0-RTT or 1-RTT keys.

MUST

 be protected with

Note that while the max_datagram_frame_size transport parameter places a limit on the
maximum size of DATAGRAM frames, that limit can be further reduced by the
max_udp_payload_size transport parameter and the Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU) of the
path between endpoints. DATAGRAM frames cannot be fragmented; therefore, application
protocols need to handle cases where the maximum datagram size is limited by other factors.

5.1.  Multiplexing Datagrams

DATAGRAM frames belong to a QUIC connection as a whole and are not associated with any
stream ID at the QUIC layer. However, it is expected that applications will want to diﬀerentiate
between speciﬁc DATAGRAM frames by using identiﬁers, such as for logical ﬂows of datagrams or
to distinguish between diﬀerent kinds of datagrams.

Deﬁning the identiﬁers used to multiplex diﬀerent kinds of datagrams or ﬂows of datagrams is
the responsibility of the application protocol running over QUIC. The application deﬁnes the
semantics of the Datagram Data ﬁeld and how it is parsed.

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9221

QUIC Datagrams

March 2022

If the application needs to support the coexistence of multiple ﬂows of datagrams, one
recommended pattern is to use a variable-length integer at the beginning of the Datagram Data
ﬁeld. This is a simple approach that allows a large number of ﬂows to be encoded using minimal
space.

QUIC implementations
DATAGRAM frames with respect to each other and to QUIC streams.

SHOULD

 present an API to applications to assign relative priorities to

5.2.  Acknowledgement Handling

SHOULD

). Receivers

Although DATAGRAM frames are not retransmitted upon loss detection, they are ack-eliciting
[RFC9002]
(
max_ack_delay) in response to receiving packets that only contain DATAGRAM frames, since the
sender takes no action if these packets are temporarily unacknowledged. Receivers will continue
to send ACK frames when conditions indicate a packet might be lost, since the packet's payload is
unknown to the receiver, and when dictated by max_ack_delay or other protocol components.

 support delaying ACK frames (within the limits speciﬁed by

As with any ack-eliciting frame, when a sender suspects that a packet containing only
DATAGRAM frames has been lost, it sends probe packets to elicit a faster acknowledgement as
described in

Section 6.2.4 of [RFC9002]

.

If a sender detects that a packet containing a speciﬁc DATAGRAM frame might have been lost, the
implementation

 notify the application that it believes the datagram was lost.

MAY

Similarly, if a packet containing a DATAGRAM frame is acknowledged, the implementation
MAY
notify the sender application that the datagram was successfully transmitted and received. Due
to reordering, this can include a DATAGRAM frame that was thought to be lost but, at a later point,
was received and acknowledged. It is important to note that acknowledgement of a DATAGRAM
frame only indicates that the transport-layer handling on the receiver processed the frame and
does not guarantee that the application on the receiver successfully processed the data. Thus, this
signal cannot replace application-layer signals that indicate successful processing.

5.3.  Flow Control

DATAGRAM frames do not provide any explicit ﬂow control signaling and do not contribute to
any per-ﬂow or connection-wide data limit.

The risk associated with not providing ﬂow control for DATAGRAM frames is that a receiver
might not be able to commit the necessary resources to process the frames. For example, it might
not be able to store the frame contents in memory. However, since DATAGRAM frames are
inherently unreliable, they

 be dropped by the receiver if the receiver cannot process them.

MAY

5.4.  Congestion Control

DATAGRAM frames employ the QUIC connection's congestion controller. As a result, a connection
might be unable to send a DATAGRAM frame generated by the application until the congestion
controller allows it

 either delay sending the frame until the controller

. The sender

[RFC9002]

MUST

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9221

QUIC Datagrams

March 2022

allows it or drop the frame without sending it (at which point it
Implementations that use packet pacing (
DATAGRAM frames to maintain consistent packet pacing.

Section 7.7 of [RFC9002]

MAY

 notify the application).

) can also delay the sending of

Implementations can optionally support allowing the application to specify a sending expiration
time beyond which a congestion-controlled DATAGRAM frame ought to be dropped without
transmission.

6.  Security Considerations

The DATAGRAM frame shares the same security properties as the rest of the data transmitted
 apply accordingly. All
within a QUIC connection, and the security considerations of
application data transmitted with the DATAGRAM frame, like the STREAM frame,
protected either by 0-RTT or 1-RTT keys.

[RFC9000]

MUST

 be

Application protocols that allow DATAGRAM frames to be sent in 0-RTT require a proﬁle that
deﬁnes acceptable use of 0-RTT; see

Section 5.6 of [RFC9001]

.

The use of DATAGRAM frames might be detectable by an adversary on path that is capable of
dropping packets. Since DATAGRAM frames do not use transport-level retransmission,
connections that use DATAGRAM frames might be distinguished from other connections due to
their diﬀerent response to packet loss.

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  QUIC Transport Parameter

This document registers a new value in the "QUIC Transport Parameters" registry maintained at
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/quic>
.

0x20

Value:
Parameter Name:
Status:
Speciﬁcation:

permanent

RFC 9221

max_datagram_frame_size

7.2.  QUIC Frame Types

This document registers two new values in the "QUIC Frame Types" registry maintained at
.
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/quic>

0x30-0x31

Value:
Frame Name:
Status:
Speciﬁcation:

permanent

RFC 9221

DATAGRAM

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9221

QUIC Datagrams

March 2022

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9000]

[RFC9001]

[RFC9002]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

 and

Iyengar, J., Ed.
,
,
Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
.
editor.org/info/rfc9000>

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and Secure
, May 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Thomson, M., Ed.
10.17487/RFC9001

 and
, May 2021,

S. Turner, Ed. "Using TLS to Secure QUIC" RFC 9001 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9001>

,

,

,

,
 and
Iyengar, J., Ed.
,
RFC 9002 DOI 10.17487/RFC9002
.
rfc9002>

,
I. Swett, Ed. "QUIC Loss Detection and Congestion Control"

, May 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

8.2.  Informative References

[RFC0768]

[RFC6347]

,

Postel, J. "User Datagram Protocol" STD 6 RFC 768 DOI 10.17487/RFC0768
,
1980,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc768>
.

,

,

, August

 and

,
Rescorla, E.
,
RFC 6347 DOI 10.17487/RFC6347
.
rfc6347>

,
N. Modadugu "Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2"
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, January 2012,

Acknowledgments

The original proposal for this work came from

Ian Swett

.

This document had reviews and input from many contributors in the IETF QUIC Working Group,
with substantive input from
Vasiliev

Nick Banks Lucas Pardue Rui Paulo Martin Thomson Victor

Chris Wood
.

, and

,

,

,

,

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9221

QUIC Datagrams

March 2022

Authors' Addresses

Tommy Pauly
Apple Inc.
One Apple Park Way
Cupertino CA 95014
,
United States of America
Email:

 tpauly@apple.com

Eric Kinnear
Apple Inc.
One Apple Park Way
Cupertino CA 95014
,
United States of America
Email:

 ekinnear@apple.com

David Schinazi
Google LLC
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

,

 dschinazi.ietf@gmail.com

Pauly, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

