Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9287
Standards Track
August 2022
2070-1721
M. Thomson
Mozilla

RFC 9287
Greasing the QUIC Bit

Abstract

This document describes a method for negotiating the ability to send an arbitrary value for the
second-most significant bit in QUIC packets.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9287
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Thomson

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9287

Greasing the QUIC Bit

August 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

3.  The Grease QUIC Bit Transport Parameter

3.1.  Clearing the QUIC Bit

3.2.  Using the QUIC Bit

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

The version-independent definition of QUIC
narrow set of fields that are visible to entities other than endpoints. Beyond those characteristics
that are invariant, very little about the "wire image"

 intentionally describes a very

[QUIC-INVARIANTS]

 of QUIC is visible.

[RFC8546]

The second-most significant bit of the first byte in every QUIC packet is defined as having a fixed
[QUIC]
value in QUIC version 1
efficiently distinguish QUIC from other protocols; see
might use this property. As this bit can identify a packet as QUIC, it is sometimes referred to as
the "QUIC Bit".

. The purpose of having a fixed value is to allow endpoints to

 for a description of a system that

[DEMUX]

Where endpoints and the intermediaries that support them do not depend on the QUIC Bit
having a fixed value, sending the same value in every packet is more of a liability than an asset.
If systems come to depend on a fixed value, then it might become infeasible to define a version of
QUIC that attributes semantics to this bit.

In order to safeguard future use of this bit, this document defines a QUIC transport parameter
that indicates that an endpoint is willing to receive QUIC packets containing any value for this
bit. By sending different values for this bit, the hope is that the value will remain available for
future use

[USE-IT]
.

Thomson

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9287

Greasing the QUIC Bit

August 2022

2.  Conventions and Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document uses terms and notational conventions from

[QUIC]
.

3.  The Grease QUIC Bit Transport Parameter

The grease_quic_bit transport parameter (0x2ab2) is defined for QUIC version 1
transport parameter can be sent by both client and server. The transport parameter is sent with
 treat receipt of a
an empty value; an endpoint that understands this transport parameter
non-empty value of the transport parameter as a connection error of type
TRANSPORT_PARAMETER_ERROR.

[QUIC]

. This

MUST

 accept packets with
An endpoint that advertises the grease_quic_bit transport parameter
the QUIC Bit set to a value of 0. The QUIC Bit is defined as the second-most significant bit of the
first byte of QUIC packets (that is, the value 0x40).

MUST

3.1.  Clearing the QUIC Bit

Endpoints that receive the grease_quic_bit transport parameter from a peer
Bit to an unpredictable value unless another extension assigns specific meaning to the value of
the bit.

SHOULD

 set the QUIC

Endpoints can set the QUIC Bit to 0 on all packets that are sent after receiving and processing
transport parameters. This could include Initial, Handshake, and Retry packets.

MAY

 also set the QUIC Bit to 0 in Initial, Handshake, or 0-RTT packets that are sent prior
A client
to receiving transport parameters from the server. However, a client
 set the QUIC Bit
to 0 unless the Initial packets it sends include a token provided by the server in a NEW_TOKEN
), received less than 604800 seconds (7 days) prior on a connection
frame (
where the server also included the grease_quic_bit transport parameter.

Section 19.7 of [QUIC]

MUST NOT

This 7-day limit allows for changes in server configuration. If server configuration
changes and a client does not set the QUIC Bit, then it is possible that a server will
drop packets, resulting in connection failures.

MUST

A server
server
set the QUIC Bit to 0 based on that information.

MUST NOT

 set the QUIC Bit to 0 only after processing transport parameters from a client. A

 remember that a client negotiated the extension in a previous connection and

Thomson

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9287

Greasing the QUIC Bit

August 2022

 set the QUIC Bit to 0 without knowing whether the peer supports the

An endpoint
MUST NOT
extension. As Stateless Reset packets (
connection state, endpoints are unlikely to be able to set the QUIC Bit to 0 on Stateless Reset
packets.

) are only used after a loss of

Section 10.3 of [QUIC]

3.2.  Using the QUIC Bit

The purpose of this extension is to allow for the use of the QUIC Bit by later extensions.

Extensions to QUIC that define semantics for the QUIC Bit can be negotiated at the same time as
the grease_quic_bit transport parameter. In this case, a recipient needs to be able to distinguish a
randomized value from a value carrying information according to the extension. Extensions that
 negotiate their use prior to acting on any semantic.
use the QUIC Bit

MUST

For example, an extension might define a transport parameter that is sent in addition to the
grease_quic_bit transport parameter. Though the value of the QUIC Bit in packets received by a
peer might be set according to rules defined by the extension, they might also be randomized as
specified in this document.

The receipt of a transport parameter for an extension that uses the QUIC Bit could be used to
confirm that a peer supports the semantic defined in the extension. To avoid acting on a
randomized signal, the extension can require that endpoints set the QUIC Bit according to the
rules of the extension but defer acting on the information conveyed until the transport
parameter for the extension is received.

Extensions that define semantics for the QUIC Bit can be negotiated without using the
grease_quic_bit transport parameter. However, including both extensions allows for the QUIC Bit
to be greased even if the alternative use is not supported.

4.  Security Considerations

This document introduces no new security considerations for endpoints or entities that can rely
on endpoint cooperation. However, this change makes the task of identifying QUIC more difficult
without cooperation of endpoints. This sometimes works counter to the security goals of network
operators who rely on network classification to identify threats; see
[MANAGEABILITY]

 for a more comprehensive treatment of this topic.

Section 3.1 of

5.  IANA Considerations

This document registers the grease_quic_bit transport parameter in the "QUIC Transport
Parameters" registry established in

. The following fields are registered:

Section 22.3 of [QUIC]

Value:

0x2ab2

Parameter Name:

grease_quic_bit

Thomson

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9287

Greasing the QUIC Bit

August 2022

Status:

Permanent

Specification:

RFC 9287

Date:

2022-07-13

Change Controller:

IETF (iesg@ietf.org)

Contact:

QUIC Working Group (quic@ietf.org)

Notes:

(none)

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[QUIC]

M. Thomson, Ed. "QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and

,

Iyengar, J., Ed.
Secure Transport" RFC 9000 DOI 10.17487/RFC9000
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9000>

 and
,

,

.

, May 2021,

<https://

[QUIC-INVARIANTS]

Thomson, M. "Version-Independent Properties of QUIC" RFC 8999 DOI

,

,

,

10.17487/RFC8999

, May 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8999>

.

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

6.2.  Informative References

[DEMUX]

,

Aboba, B. Salgueiro, G.
QUIC" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-avtcore-rfc7983bis-06
,
August 2022,
rfc7983bis-06>

C. Perkins "Multiplexing Scheme Updates for
, 5

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-avtcore-

, and
,

,

.

[MANAGEABILITY]

Kuehlewind, M.

 and

B. Trammell "Manageability of the QUIC Transport

,

Protocol" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-quic-manageability-18
,
July 2022,
manageability-18>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-quic-

.

,

, 15

[RFC8546]

M. Kuehlewind "The Wire Image of a Network Protocol" RFC

,

 and

Trammell, B.
8546 DOI 10.17487/RFC8546
,
rfc8546>

.

,
, April 2019,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Thomson

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9287

Greasing the QUIC Bit

August 2022

[USE-IT]

T. Pauly "Long-Term Viability of Protocol Extension

,

Thomson, M.
Mechanisms" RFC 9170 DOI 10.17487/RFC9170
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9170>

 and
,

.

, December 2021,

<https://

Author's Address

Martin Thomson
Mozilla
Email:

 mt@lowentropy.net

Thomson

Standards Track

Page 6

