Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9686
Standards Track
December 2024
2070-1721
W. Kumari
Google, LLC

S. Krishnan
Cisco Systems, Inc.

R. Asati
Independent

L. Colitti
Google, LLC

J. Linkova
Google, LLC

Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

S. Jiang
BUPT

RFC 9686
Registering Self-Generated IPv6 Addresses Using
DHCPv6

Abstract

This document defines a method to inform a DHCPv6 server that a device has one or more self-
generated or statically configured addresses.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9686
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

3.  Registration Mechanism Overview

4.  DHCPv6 Address Registration Procedure

4.1.  DHCPv6 Address Registration Option

4.2.  DHCPv6 Address Registration Request Message

4.2.1.  Server Message Processing

4.3.  DHCPv6 Address Registration Acknowledgement

4.4.  Signaling Address Registration Support

4.5.  Retransmission

4.6.  Registration Expiry and Refresh

4.6.1.  SLAAC Addresses

4.6.2.  Statically Assigned Addresses

4.6.3.  Transmitting Refreshes

5.  Client Configuration

6.  Security Considerations

7.  Privacy Considerations

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

9.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

3

3

3

4

4

5

6

7

9

9

10

10

11

11

11

12

12

13

13

13

14

14

15

15

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

1.  Introduction

It is very common operational practice, especially in enterprise networks, to use IPv4 DHCP logs
for troubleshooting or forensics purposes. An example of this includes a help desk dealing with a
ticket such as "The CEO's laptop cannot connect to the printer"; if the Media Access Control (MAC)
address of the printer is known (for example, from an inventory system), the printer's IPv4
address can be retrieved from the DHCP log or lease table and the printer can be pinged to
determine if it is reachable. Another common example is a security operations team discovering
suspicious events in outbound firewall logs and then consulting DHCP logs to determine which
employee's laptop had that IPv4 address at that time so that they can quarantine it and remove
the malware.

This operational practice relies on the DHCP server knowing the IP address assignments. This
[RFC2131]
works quite well for IPv4 addresses, as most addresses are either assigned by DHCP
 or
statically configured by the network operator. For IPv6, however, this practice is much harder to
implement, as devices often self-configure IPv6 addresses via Stateless Address
Autoconfiguration (SLAAC)

[RFC4862]
.

This document provides a mechanism for a device to inform the DHCPv6 server that the device
has a self-configured IPv6 address (or has a statically configured address), and thus provides
parity with IPv4 by making DHCPv6 infrastructure aware of self-assigned IPv6 addresses.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Registration Mechanism Overview

The DHCPv6 protocol is used as the address registration protocol and a DHCPv6 server performs
the role of an address registration server. This document introduces a new Address Registration
(OPTION_ADDR_REG_ENABLE) option, which indicates that the server supports the registration
mechanism. Before registering any addresses, the client
 determine whether the network
supports address registration. It can do this by including the Address Registration option code in
the Option Request option (see
Request, Renew, or Rebind messages it sends to the server as part of the regular stateless or
stateful DHCPv6 configuration process. If the server supports address registration, it includes an
Address Registration option in its Advertise or Reply messages. To avoid undesired multicast
traffic, if the DHCPv6 infrastructure does not support (or is not willing to receive) any address
registration information, the client
specification. Otherwise, the client registers addresses as described below.

 register any addresses using the mechanism in this

) of the Information-Request, Solicit,

Section 21.7 of [RFC8415]

MUST NOT

MUST

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

After successfully assigning a self-generated or statically configured valid IPv6 address
on one of its interfaces, a client implementing this specification multicasts an ADDR-REG-
INFORM message (see Section 4.2) in order to inform the DHCPv6 server that this self-generated
address is in use. Each ADDR-REG-INFORM message contains a DHCPv6 Identity Association (IA)
Address option

 to specify the address being registered.

[RFC8415]

[RFC4862]

The address registration mechanism overview is shown in Figure 1.

+--------+        +------------------+       +---------------+
| CLIENT |        | FIRST-HOP ROUTER |       | DHCPv6 SERVER |
+--------+        +---------+--------+       +-------+-------+
    |      SLAAC            |                        |
    |<--------------------> |                        |
    |                       |                        |
    |                                                |
    |  src: link-local address                       |
    | -------------------------------------------->  |
    |    INFORMATION-REQUEST or SOLICIT/...          |
    |       - OPTION REQUEST OPTION                  |
    |          -- OPTION_ADDR_REG_ENABLE             |
    |                                                |
    |    ...                                         |
    |                                                |
    |                                                |
    |<---------------------------------------------  |
    |     REPLY or ADVERTISE MESSAGE                 |
    |       - OPTION_ADDR_REG_ENABLE                 |
    |                                                |
    |                                                |
    |  src: address being registered                 |
    | -------------------------------------------->  |
    |    ADDR-REG-INFORM MESSAGE                     |Register/
    |                                                |log addresses
    |                                                |
    |                                                |
    | <--------------------------------------------  |
    |        ADDR-REG-REPLY MESSAGE                  |
    |                                                |

Figure 1: Address Registration Procedure Overview

4.  DHCPv6 Address Registration Procedure

4.1.  DHCPv6 Address Registration Option

The Address Registration option (OPTION_ADDR_REG_ENABLE) indicates that the server
supports the mechanism described in this document. The format of the Address Registration
option is described as follows:

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |          option-code          |           option-len          |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 2: DHCPv6 Address Registration Option

option-code:

OPTION_ADDR_REG_ENABLE (148)

option-len:

0

If a client has the address registration mechanism enabled, it
Option Request options that it sends.

MUST

 include this option in all

A server that is configured to support the address registration mechanism
option in Advertise and Reply messages if the client message it is replying to contained this
option in the Option Request option.

 include this

MUST

4.2.  DHCPv6 Address Registration Request Message

The DHCPv6 client sends an ADDR-REG-INFORM message to inform that an IPv6 address is
assigned to the client's interface. The format of the ADDR-REG-INFORM message is described as
follows:

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |    msg-type   |               transaction-id                  |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               |
 .                            options                            .
 .                           (variable)                          .
 |                                                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 3: DHCPv6 ADDR-REG-INFORM Message

msg-type:

Identifies the DHCPv6 message type; set to ADDR-REG-INFORM (36).

transaction-id:

The transaction ID for this message exchange.

options:

The options carried in this message.

The client
transaction-id field.

MUST

 generate a transaction ID as described in

[RFC8415]

 and insert this value in the

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

The client
message.

MUST

 include the Client Identifier option

[RFC8415]

 in the ADDR-REG-INFORM

The ADDR-REG-INFORM message
contain exactly one IA Address option containing the address being registered. The valid-lifetime
and preferred-lifetime fields in the option
Lifetime of the address being registered.

 match the current Valid Lifetime and Preferred

 contain the Server Identifier option and

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

The ADDR-REG-INFORM message is dedicated for clients to initiate an address registration
request toward an address registration server. Consequently, clients
Request option(s) in the ADDR-REG-INFORM message. Clients
the Client FQDN option

[RFC4704]
.

MUST NOT

MAY

 include other options, such as

 put any Option

The client sends the DHCPv6 ADDR-REG-INFORM message to the
All_DHCP_Relay_Agents_and_Servers multicast address (ff02::1:2). The client
messages for each address being registered.

MUST

 send separate

Unlike other types of messages, which are sent from the link-local address of the client, the
ADDR-REG-INFORM message
for "fate sharing" purposes; for example, if the network implements some form of Layer 2
security to prevent a client from spoofing other clients' MAC addresses, this prevents an attacker
from spoofing ADDR-REG-INFORM messages.

 be sent from the address being registered. This is primarily

MUST

On clients with multiple interfaces, the client
interface that has the address being registered, even if it has multiple interfaces with different
addresses. If the same address is configured on multiple interfaces, then the client
ADDR-REG-INFORM message each time the address is configured on an interface that did not
previously have it and refresh each registration independently from the others.

 only send the packet on the network

MUST

MUST

 send the

MUST

[RFC4007]

 only send the ADDR-REG-INFORM message for valid addresses

 of
. This includes Unique Local Addresses (ULAs), which are defined in

The client
global scope
[RFC4193]
(such addresses are considered to be valid indefinitely). The client
REG-INFORM message for addresses configured by DHCPv6.

 to have global scope. This also includes statically assigned addresses of global scope

 send the ADDR-

[RFC4862]

MUST NOT

The client
Advertisement (RA) message with either the M or O flags set to 1.

SHOULD NOT

 send the ADDR-REG-INFORM message unless it has received a Router

Clients

MUST

 discard any received ADDR-REG-INFORM messages.

4.2.1.  Server Message Processing

MUST

 discard any ADDR-REG-INFORM messages that meet any of the following

Servers
conditions:

•

the message does not include a Client Identifier option;

•

the message includes a Server Identifier option;

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

•

the message does not include the IA Address option, or the IP address in the IA Address
option does not match the source address of the original ADDR-REG-INFORM message sent
by the client. The source address of the original message is the source IP address of the
packet if it is not relayed or is the peer-address field of the innermost Relay-forward message
if it is relayed; or

•

the message includes an Option Request option.

If the message is not discarded, the address registration server
being registered is "appropriate to the link" as defined by
to the client via DHCPv6 for Prefix Delegation (DHCPv6-PD) (see
address being registered fails this verification, the server
log this fact. If the message passes the verification, the server:

MUST

SHOULD

 verify that the address
 or within a prefix delegated

[RFC8415]

Section 6.3 of [RFC8415]

 drop the message and

). If the
SHOULD

• MUST

 log the address registration information (as is done normally for clients to which it has

assigned an address), unless it is configured not to do so. The server
DHCP Unique Identifier (DUID) and the link-layer address, if available. The server
any other information.

SHOULD

 log the client
 log

MAY

• SHOULD

 register a binding between the provided Client Identifier and IPv6 address in its

database, if no binding exists. The lifetime of the binding is equal to the Valid Lifetime of the
address reported by the client. If there is already a binding between the registered address
and the same client, the server
between the registered address and another client, the server
update the binding.

 update its lifetime. If there is already a binding

 log the fact and

SHOULD

MUST

• SHOULD

 mark the address as unavailable for use and not include it in future Advertise

messages.

• MUST

 send back an ADDR-REG-REPLY message to ensure the client does not retransmit.

If a client is multihomed (i.e., connected to multiple administrative domains, each operating its
own DHCPv6 infrastructure), the requirement to verify that the registered address is appropriate
for the link or belongs to a delegated prefix ensures that each DHCPv6 server only registers
bindings for addresses from the given administrative domain.

As mentioned in Section 4.2, although a client "
for addresses configured by DHCPv6", if a server does receive such a message, it
discard it.

 send the ADDR-REG-INFORM message
 log and

MUST NOT

SHOULD

DHCPv6 relay agents and switches that relay address registration messages directly from clients
MUST
Address option
Request, and Rebind.

 include the client's link-layer address in the relayed message using the Client Link-Layer
 if they would do so for other DHCPv6 client messages such as Solicit,

[RFC6939]

4.3.  DHCPv6 Address Registration Acknowledgement

The server
 acknowledge receipt of a valid ADDR-REG-INFORM message by sending back an
ADDR-REG-REPLY message. The format of the ADDR-REG-REPLY message is described as follows:

MUST

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |    msg-type   |               transaction-id                  |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                                                               |
 .                            options                            .
 .                           (variable)                          .
 |                                                               |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: DHCPv6 ADDR-REG-REPLY Message

msg-type:

Identifies the DHCPv6 message type; set to ADDR-REG-REPLY (37).

transaction-id:

The transaction ID for this message exchange.

options:

The options carried in this message.

If the ADDR-REG-INFORM message that the server is replying to was not relayed, then the IPv6
destination address of the message
INFORM message was relayed, then the server
specified in

 be the address being registered. If the ADDR-REG-

 construct the Relay-reply message as

Section 19.3 of [RFC8415]
.

MUST

MUST

The server
transaction-id field of the ADDR-REG-REPLY.

MUST

 copy the transaction-id from the ADDR-REG-INFORM message to the

The ADDR-REG-REPLY message
registered. The option
server is replying to.

MUST

MUST

 contain an IA Address option for the address being

 be identical to the one in the ADDR-REG-INFORM message that the

Servers

MUST

 ignore any received ADDR-REG-REPLY messages.

Clients

MUST

 discard any ADDR-REG-REPLY messages that meet any of the following conditions:

•

the IPv6 destination address does not match the address being registered;

•

the IA Address option does not match the address being registered;

•

the address being registered is not assigned to the interface receiving the message; or

•

the transaction-id does not match the transaction-id the client used in the corresponding
ADDR-REG-INFORM message.

The ADDR-REG-REPLY message only indicates that the ADDR-REG-INFORM message has been
received and that the client should not retransmit it. The ADDR-REG-REPLY message
be considered to be any indication of the address validity and
address to be usable. DHCPv6 relays, or other devices that snoop ADDR-REG-REPLY messages,
MUST NOT

 add or alter any forwarding or security state based on the ADDR-REG-REPLY message.

 be required for the

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

4.4.  Signaling Address Registration Support

MUST NOT

 register addresses using this

To avoid undesired multicast traffic, the client
mechanism unless the DHCPv6 infrastructure supports address registration. The client can
discover this by including the OPTION_ADDR_REG_ENABLE option in the Option Request options
that it sends. If the client receives and processes an Advertise or Reply message with the
OPTION_ADDR_REG_ENABLE option, it concludes that the DHCPv6 infrastructure supports
 start the
address registration. When the client detects address registration support, it
registration process (unless configured not to do so) and
addresses that are already in use. Once the client starts the registration process, it
registering addresses until it disconnects from the link, even if subsequent Advertise or Reply
messages do not contain the OPTION_ADDR_REG_ENABLE option.

 immediately register any

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

 stop

MUST

The client
 discover whether the DHCPv6 infrastructure supports address registration every
time it connects to a network or when it detects it has moved to a new link, without utilizing any
prior knowledge about address registration support on that network or link. This client behavior
allows networks to progressively roll out support for the Address Registration option across the
DHCPv6 infrastructure without causing clients to frequently stop and restart address registration
if some of the network's DHCPv6 servers support it and some do not.

A client with multiple interfaces
independently. The client
unless the client has discovered that the interface is connected to a network that supports
address registration.

 send address registration messages on a given interface

 discover address registration support for each interface

MUST NOT

MUST

4.5.  Retransmission

To reduce the effects of packet loss on registration, the client
message. Retransmissions
SHOULD
15 of [RFC8415]
and maximum retransmission count (MRC):

 with the following default parameters for the initial retransmission time (IRT)

 follow the standard retransmission logic specified by

Section

MUST

 retransmit the registration

•

IRT 1 sec

•

MRC 3

The client

SHOULD

 allow these parameters to be configured by the administrator.

Section 16.1 of [RFC8415]

 leave the transaction ID unchanged in
To comply with
retransmissions of an ADDR-REG-INFORM message. When the client retransmits the registration
message, the lifetimes in the packet
 be updated so that they match the current lifetimes of
the address.

, the client

MUST

MUST

If an ADDR-REG-REPLY message is received for the address being registered, the client
retransmission.

MUST

 stop

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

4.6.  Registration Expiry and Refresh

The client
addresses are still valid. The client

MUST

 refresh registrations to ensure that the server is always aware of which

SHOULD

 perform refreshes as described below.

4.6.1.  SLAAC Addresses

For an address configured using SLAAC, a function AddrRegRefreshInterval(address) is defined
as 80% of the address's current Valid Lifetime. When calculating this value, the client applies a
multiplier of AddrRegDesyncMultiplier to avoid synchronization with other clients, which could
cause a large number of registration messages to reach the server at the same time.
AddrRegDesyncMultiplier is a random value uniformly distributed between 0.9 and 1.1
(inclusive) and is chosen by the client when it starts the registration process, to ensure that
refreshes for addresses with the same lifetime are coalesced (see below).

Whenever the client registers or refreshes an address, it calculates a NextAddrRegRefreshTime
for that address as AddrRegRefreshInterval seconds in the future but does not schedule any
refreshes.

Whenever the network changes the Valid Lifetime of an existing address by more than 1%, for
example, by sending a Prefix Information Option (PIO)
client calculates a new AddrRegRefreshInterval. The client schedules a refresh for min(now +
AddrRegRefreshInterval, NextAddrRegRefreshTime). If the refresh would be scheduled in the
past, then the refresh occurs immediately.

 with a new Valid Lifetime, the

[RFC4861]

Justification: This algorithm ensures that refreshes are not sent too frequently while ensuring
that the server never believes that the address has expired when it has not. Specifically, after
every registration:

•

If the network never changes the lifetime of an address (e.g., if no further PIOs are received,
or if all PIO lifetimes decrease in step with the passage of time), then no refreshes occur.
Refreshes are not necessary, because the address expires at the time the server expects it to
expire.

•

Any time the network changes the lifetime of an address (i.e., changes the time at which the
address will expire), the client ensures that a refresh is scheduled, so that server will be
informed of the new expiry.

•

Because AddrRegDesyncMultiplier is at most 1.1, the refresh never occurs later than a point
88% between the time when the address was registered and the time when the address will
expire. This allows the client to retransmit the registration for up to 12% of the original
interval before it expires. This may not be possible if the network sends a Router
Advertisement (RA)
In this case, the client refreshes immediately, which is the best it can do.

 very close to the time when the address would have expired.

[RFC4861]

•

The 1% tolerance ensures that the client will not refresh or reschedule refreshes if the Valid
Lifetime experiences minor changes due to transmission delays or clock skew between the
client and the router(s) sending the RA.

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

•

AddrRegRefreshCoalesce (Section 4.6.3) allows battery-powered clients to wake up less often.
In particular, it allows the client to coalesce refreshes for multiple addresses formed from
the same prefix, such as the stable and privacy addresses. Higher values will result in fewer
wakeups but may result in more network traffic, because if a refresh is sent early, then the
next RA received will cause the client to immediately send a refresh message.

•

In typical networks, the lifetimes in periodic RAs either contain constant values or values
that decrease over time to match another lifetime, such as the lifetime of a prefix delegated
to the network. In both these cases, this algorithm will refresh on the order of once per
address lifetime, which is similar to the number of refreshes that are necessary using
stateful DHCPv6.

•

Because refreshes occur at least once per address lifetime, the network administrator can
control the address refresh frequency by appropriately setting the Valid Lifetime in the PIO.

4.6.2.  Statically Assigned Addresses

A statically assigned address has an infinite Valid Lifetime that is not affected by RAs. Therefore,
whenever the client registers or refreshes a statically assigned address, the next refresh is
scheduled for StaticAddrRegRefreshInterval seconds in the future. The default value of
StaticAddrRegRefreshInterval is 4 hours. This ensures static addresses are still refreshed
periodically, but refreshes for static addresses do not cause excessive multicast traffic. The
StaticAddrRegRefreshInterval interval

 be configurable.

SHOULD

4.6.3.  Transmitting Refreshes

When a refresh is performed, the client
are scheduled to be refreshed within the next AddrRegRefreshCoalesce seconds. The value of
AddrRegRefreshCoalesce is implementation dependent, and a suggested default is 60 seconds.

 refresh all addresses assigned to the interface that

MAY

Registration refresh packets
registrations (see Section 4.5).

MUST

 be retransmitted using the same logic as used for initial

The client

MUST

 generate a new transaction ID when refreshing the registration.

When a Client-Identifier-to-IPv6-address binding expires, the server
consider the address as available for use.

MUST

 remove it and

MAY

 choose to notify the server when an address is no longer being used (e.g., if the
The client
client is disconnecting from the network, the address lifetime expired, or the address is being
removed from the interface). To indicate that the address is not being used anymore, the client
 set the preferred-lifetime and valid-lifetime fields of the IA Address option in the ADDR-
MUST
REG-INFORM message to zero. If the server receives a message with a valid-lifetime of zero, it
MUST

 act as if the address has expired.

5.  Client Configuration

DHCP clients
SHOULD
Sending the messages

 allow the administrator to disable sending ADDR-REG-INFORM messages.
SHOULD

 be enabled by default.

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

6.  Security Considerations

An attacker may attempt to register a large number of addresses in quick succession in order to
overwhelm the address registration server and/or fill up log files. Similar attack vectors exist
today, e.g., an attacker can DoS the server with messages containing spoofed DHCP Unique
Identifiers (DUIDs)

[RFC8415]
.

[RFC6620]

If a network is using First-Come, First-Served Source Address Validation Improvement (FCFS
SAVI)
by the legitimate holder of the address. This prevents a client from registering an address
configured on another client.

, then the DHCPv6 server can trust that the ADDR-REG-INFORM message was sent

One of the use cases for the mechanism described in this document is to identify sources of
malicious traffic after the fact. Note, however, that as the device itself is responsible for
informing the DHCPv6 server that it is using an address, a malicious or compromised device can
simply choose to not send the ADDR-REG-INFORM message. This is an informational, optional
mechanism and is designed to aid in troubleshooting and forensics. On its own, it is not intended
to be a strong security access mechanism. In particular, the ADDR-REG-INFORM message
NOT
above, the packets containing the message may be dropped.

MUST
 be used for authentication and authorization purposes, because in addition to the reasons

7.  Privacy Considerations

If the network doesn't have Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) snooping enabled, then IPv6 link-
local multicast traffic is effectively transmitted as broadcast. In such networks, an on-link
attacker listening to DHCPv6 messages might obtain information about IPv6 addresses assigned
to the client. As ADDR-REG-INFORM messages contain unique identifiers such as the client's
DUID, the attacker may be able to track addresses being registered and map them to the same
client, even if the client uses randomized MAC addresses. This privacy consideration is not
specific to the proposed mechanism.
tracking in DHCPv6 environments and provides mitigation recommendations.

 discusses using the DUID for device

Section 4.3 of [RFC7844]

In general, hiding information about the specific IPv6 address from on-link observers should not
be considered a security measure, as such information is usually disclosed via Duplicate Address
Detection

 to all nodes anyway, if MLD snooping is not enabled.

[RFC4862]

If MLD snooping is enabled, an attacker might be able to join the
All_DHCP_Relay_Agents_and_Servers multicast address (ff02::1:2) group to listen for address
registration messages. However, the same result can be achieved by joining the All Routers
[RFC9131]
Address (ff02::2) group and listen to gratuitous neighbor advertisement messages
should be noted that this particular scenario shares the fate with DHCPv6 address assignment: if
an attacker can join the All_DHCP_Relay_Agents_and_Servers multicast group, they would be
able to monitor all DHCPv6 messages sent from the client to DHCPv6 servers and relays and
therefore obtain the information about addresses being assigned via DHCPv6. Layer 2 isolation
allows mitigating this threat by blocking on-link peer-to-peer communication between nodes.

. It

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

8.  IANA Considerations

This document introduces the following entities, which have been allocated in the "Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)" registry group defined at
assignments/dhcpv6-parameters>

<http://www.iana.org/

. These include:

•

One new DHCPv6 option, described in Section 4.1, which has been allocated in the "Option
Codes" registry:

148
Value:
OPTION_ADDR_REG_ENABLE
Description:
Yes
Client ORO:
Singleton Option:
Reference:

Yes
RFC 9686

•

Two new DHCPv6 messages, which have been allocated in the "Message Types" registry (for
more information, see Sections 4.2 and 4.3, respectively, for each DHCPv6 message):

36
Value:
Description:
Reference:
37
Value:
Description:
Reference:

ADDR-REG-INFORM

RFC 9686

ADDR-REG-REPLY

RFC 9686

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2131]

[RFC4007]

[RFC4193]

[RFC4704]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Droms, R. "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol" RFC 2131 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2131

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2131>

,
, March 1997,

,

,

.

,

Deering, S. Haberman, B. Jinmei, T. Nordmark, E.
,
, and
Address Architecture" RFC 4007 DOI 10.17487/RFC4007
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4007>
.

,

,

B. Zill "IPv6 Scoped
,
, March 2005,

<https://

Hinden, R.
DOI 10.17487/RFC4193

B. Haberman "Unique Local IPv6 Unicast Addresses" RFC 4193
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4193>
.

,
, October 2005,

 and

,

,

Volz, B. "The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6) Client
Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) Option" RFC 4704 DOI 10.17487/RFC4704
October 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4704>

,
.

,

,

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

[RFC4862]

[RFC6939]

[RFC7844]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8415]

[RFC9131]

,

Thomson, S. Narten, T.
, and
Autoconfiguration" RFC 4862 DOI 10.17487/RFC4862
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4862>

T. Jinmei "IPv6 Stateless Address
,

,

,

.

, September 2007,

<https://

Halwasia, G. Bhandari, S.
,
DHCPv6" RFC 6939 DOI 10.17487/RFC6939
editor.org/info/rfc6939>

, and

,

,

.

W. Dec "Client Link-Layer Address Option in

,

, May 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

Huitema, C. Mrugalski, T.
,
Clients" RFC 7844 DOI 10.17487/RFC7844
editor.org/info/rfc7844>

, and

,

,

.

S. Krishnan "Anonymity Profiles for DHCP

,

, May 2016,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Mrugalski, T. Siodelski, M. Volz, B. Yourtchenko, A. Richardson, M. Jiang, S.
,
Lemon, T.
, and
(DHCPv6)" RFC 8415 DOI 10.17487/RFC8415
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8415>

T. Winters "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6

, November 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Linkova, J. "Gratuitous Neighbor Discovery: Creating Neighbor Cache Entries on
First-Hop Routers" RFC 9131 DOI 10.17487/RFC9131
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9131>

, October 2021,

<https://

,

,

.

9.2.  Informative References

[RFC4861]

[RFC6620]

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

.

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
,
<https://
, September 2007,

Nordmark, E. Bagnulo, M.
,
Served Source Address Validation Improvement for Locally Assigned IPv6
Addresses" RFC 6620 DOI 10.17487/RFC6620
<https://www.rfc-
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6620>

E. Levy-Abegnoli "FCFS SAVI: First-Come, First-

, May 2012,

, and

,

.

Acknowledgements

,

,

Bernie Volz

 for the significant review and feedback, as well as

Many thanks to
Anggawijaya Carlos Jesus Bernardos Brian Carpenter Stuart Cheshire Roman Danyliw Alan
DeKok James Guichard James Guichard Erik Kline Mallory Knodel Murray Kucherawy David
Lamparter Ted Lemon Eric Levy-Abegnoli Aditi Patange Jim Reid Michael Richardson Patrick
Peter
Rohr John Scudder Mark Smith Gunter Van de Velde Eric Vyncke Timothy Winters
Yee
acknowledge anyone's contributions.

,
,
,
, and
 for their feedback, comments, and guidance. We apologize if we inadvertently forgot to

Hermin

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9686

Registering Self-Generated Addresses Using DHCPv6

December 2024

Contributors

Gang Chen
China Mobile
53A, Xibianmennei Ave.
Xuanwu District
Beijing
China
Email:

phdgang@gmail.com

Authors' Addresses

Warren Kumari
Google, LLC
Email:

warren@kumari.net

Suresh Krishnan
Cisco Systems, Inc.
Email:

suresh.krishnan@gmail.com

Rajiv Asati
Independent
Email:

rajiv.asati@gmail.com

Lorenzo Colitti
Google, LLC
Shibuya 3-21-3
Japan
Email:

,

lorenzo@google.com

Jen Linkova
Google, LLC
1 Darling Island Rd
Pyrmont 2009
Australia
Email:

furry13@gmail.com

Sheng Jiang
Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications
No. 10 Xitucheng Road
Beijing
Haidian District 100083
China
Email:

shengjiang@bupt.edu.cn

,

Kumari, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

