Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9714
Standards Track
February 2025
2070-1721
W. Cheng, Ed.
China Mobile

X. Min, Ed.
ZTE Corp.

T. Zhou
Huawei

J. Dai
FiberHome

Y. Peleg
Broadcom

RFC 9714
Encapsulation for MPLS Performance Measurement
with the Alternate-Marking Method

Abstract

This document defines the encapsulation for MPLS performance measurement with the
Alternate-Marking Method, which performs flow-based packet loss, delay, and jitter
measurements on MPLS traffic.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9714
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Abbreviations

2.2.  Requirements Language

3.  Flow-Based PM Encapsulation in MPLS

3.1.  Examples for Applying Flow-ID Label in a Label Stack

3.1.1.  Layout of the Flow-ID Label when Applied to MPLS Transport

3.1.2.  Layout of the Flow-ID Label when Applied to MPLS Service

3.1.3.  Layout of the Flow-ID Label when Applied to both MPLS Transport and MPLS

Service

4.  Procedures of Encapsulation, Look-Up, and Decapsulation

5.  Procedures of Flow-ID Allocation

6.  FLC and FRLD Considerations

7.  Equal-Cost Multipath Considerations

8.  Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

3

3

3

4

4

6

6

6

7

8

9

10

10

10

11

11

11

12

13

13

13

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

1.  Introduction

 describes a performance measurement method, which can be used to measure packet

[RFC9341]
loss, delay, and jitter on data traffic. Since this method is based on marking consecutive batches
of packets, it is referred to as the Alternate-Marking Method.
considerations for developing a solution for MPLS flow identification, intended for use in
performance monitoring of MPLS flows.

 outlines key

[RFC8372]

This document defines the encapsulation for MPLS performance measurement with the
Alternate-Marking Method, which performs flow-based packet loss, delay, and jitter
measurements on the MPLS traffic. The encapsulation defined in this document supports
performance monitoring at the intermediate nodes and MPLS flow identification at both
transport and service layers.

. The MPLS performance measurement with the Alternate-Marking Method can also be

Note that, at the time of writing, there is ongoing work on MPLS Network Actions (MNAs)
[RFC9613]
achieved by MNA encapsulation. In addition, MNA will provide a broader use-case applicability.
That means the MNA encapsulation is expected to provide a more advanced solution. The MPLS
Working Group has agreed that this document will be made Historic when that solution is
published as an RFC.

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

2.1.  Abbreviations

ACL:

Access Control List

BoS:

Bottom of Stack

cSPL:

Composite Special Purpose Label, the combination of the Extension Label (value 15) and

an Extended Special Purpose Label

DSCP:

Differentiated Services Code Point

ELC:

Entropy Label Capability

ERLD:

Entropy Readable Label Depth

eSPL:

Extended Special Purpose Label, a special-purpose label that is placed in the label stack

after the Extension Label (value 15)

FL:

Flow-ID Label

FLC:

Flow-ID Label Capability

FLI:

Flow-ID Label Indicator

FRLD:

Flow-ID Readable Label Depth

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

IPFIX:

IP Flow Information Export

[RFC7011]

LSP:

Label Switched Path

LSR:

Label Switching Router

MPLS:

Multi-Protocol Label Switching

NMS:

Network Management System

PHP:

Penultimate Hop Popping

PM:

Performance Measurement

PW:

Pseudowire

SFL:

Synonymous Flow Label

SID:

Segment ID

SR:

Segment Routing

TC:

Traffic Class

TTL:

Time to Live

VC:

Virtual Channel

VPN:

Virtual Private Network

XL:

Extension Label

2.2.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Flow-Based PM Encapsulation in MPLS

This document defines the Flow-based MPLS performance measurement encapsulation with the
Alternate-Marking Method, as shown in Figure 1.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|          Extension Label (15)         |  TC |S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     Flow-ID Label Indicator (18)      |  TC |S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|             Flow-ID Label             |L|D|T|S|      TTL      |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: Flow-based PM Encapsulation in MPLS

The Flow-ID Label Indicator (FLI) is an Extended Special Purpose Label (eSPL), which is
combined with the Extension Label (XL, value 15) to form a Composite Special Purpose Label
(cSPL), as defined in

. The FLI is defined in this document as value 18.

[RFC9017]

The Traffic Class (TC) and Time To Live (TTL) fields of the XL and FLI
of the label immediately preceding the XL. The Bottom of the Stack (BoS) bit
and FLI
MUST
discard the packet and

 be zero. If any XL or FLI processed by a node has the BoS bit set, the node

 log an error.

[RFC3032]

MUST

MAY

 use the same values

 for the XL
MUST

The Flow-ID Label (FL) is used as an MPLS flow identification
[RFC8372]
 be allocated by an external NMS or
unique within the administrative domain. The FL values
MAY
controller based on the measurement object instances (such as LSP or PW). There is a one-to-one
mapping between a Flow-ID and a flow. The specific method on how to allocate the FL values is
described in Section 5.

. Its value

MUST

 be

The FL, preceded by a cSPL, can be placed either at the bottom or in the middle, but not at the
top, of the MPLS label stack, and it
this document provides several examples to illustrate the application of FL in a label stack. The
TTL for the FL
 be zero to ensure that it is not used inadvertently for forwarding. The BoS
bit for the FL depends on whether the FL is placed at the bottom of the MPLS label stack, i.e., the
BoS bit for the FL is set only when the FL is placed at the bottom of the MPLS label stack.

 appear multiple times within a label stack. Section 3.1 of

MUST

MAY

Besides the flow identification, a color-marking field is also necessary for the Alternate-Marking
Method. To color the MPLS traffic and to distinguish between hop-by-hop measurement and
edge-to-edge measurement, the TC for the FL is defined as follows:

•

L(oss) bit is used for coloring the MPLS packets for loss measurement. Setting the bit means
color 1, and unsetting the bit means color 0.

•

D(elay) bit is used for coloring the MPLS packets for delay/jitter measurement. Setting the bit
means color for delay measurement.

•

T(ype) bit is used to indicate the measurement type. When the T bit is set to 1, that means
edge-to-edge performance measurement. When the T bit is set to 0, that means hop-by-hop
performance measurement.

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

Considering the FL is not used as a forwarding label, the repurposing of the TC for the FL is
feasible and viable.

3.1.  Examples for Applying Flow-ID Label in a Label Stack

Three examples of different layouts of the FL (4 octets) are illustrated as follows. Note that more
examples may exist.

3.1.1.  Layout of the Flow-ID Label when Applied to MPLS Transport

+----------------------+
|          LSP         |
|         Label        |
+----------------------+ <--+
|       Extension      |    |
|         Label        |    |
+----------------------+    |--- cSPL
|     Flow-ID Label    |    |
|       Indicator      |    |
+----------------------+ <--+
|        Flow-ID       |
|         Label        |
+----------------------+
|      Application     |
|         Label        |
+----------------------+ <= Bottom of stack
|                      |
|        Payload       |
|                      |
+----------------------+

Figure 2: Applying Flow-ID to MPLS Transport

Section 3.16 of [RFC3031]

), the top label is "popped at the

With penultimate hop popping (PHP
penultimate LSR of the LSP, rather than at the LSP Egress". The final bullet of Section 4 of the
 pop the XL, FLI, and FL from the
present document requires that "[t]he processing node
MPLS label stack when it needs to pop the preceding forwarding label", which implies that the
penultimate Label Switching Router (LSR) needs to follow the requirement of Section 4 in order
to support this specification. If this is done, the egress LSR is excluded from the performance
measurement. Therefore, when this specification is in use, PHP should be disabled, unless the
penultimate LSR is known to have the necessary support and unless it's acceptable to exclude the
egress LSR.

MUST

Also note that in other examples of applying Flow-ID to MPLS transport, one LSP label can be
substituted by multiple SID labels in the case of using SR Policy, and the combination of cSPL and
FL can be placed between SID labels, as specified in Section 6.

3.1.2.  Layout of the Flow-ID Label when Applied to MPLS Service

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

+----------------------+
|          LSP         |
|         Label        |
+----------------------+
|      Application     |
|         Label        |
+----------------------+ <--+
|       Extension      |    |
|         Label        |    |
+----------------------+    |--- cSPL
|     Flow-ID Label    |    |
|       Indicator      |    |
+----------------------+ <--+
|        Flow-ID       |
|         Label        |
+----------------------+ <= Bottom of stack
|                      |
|        Payload       |
|                      |
+----------------------+

Figure 3: Applying Flow-ID to MPLS Service

Note that in this case, the application label can be an MPLS PW label, MPLS Ethernet VPN label,
or MPLS IP VPN label, and it is also called a VC label as defined in

[RFC4026]
.

3.1.3.  Layout of the Flow-ID Label when Applied to both MPLS Transport and MPLS Service

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

+----------------------+
|          LSP         |
|         Label        |
+----------------------+ <--+
|       Extension      |    |
|         Label        |    |
+----------------------+    |--- cSPL
|     Flow-ID Label    |    |
|       Indicator      |    |
+----------------------+ <--+
|        Flow-ID       |
|         Label        |
+----------------------+
|      Application     |
|         Label        |
+----------------------+ <--+
|       Extension      |    |
|         Label        |    |
+----------------------+    |--- cSPL
|     Flow-ID Label    |    |
|       Indicator      |    |
+----------------------+ <--+
|        Flow-ID       |
|         Label        |
+----------------------+ <= Bottom of stack
|                      |
|        Payload       |
|                      |
+----------------------+

Figure 4: Applying Flow-ID to both MPLS Transport and MPLS Service

Note that for this example, the two FL values appearing in a label stack must be different. In
other words, the FL applied to the MPLS transport and the FL applied to the MPLS service must
be different. Also, note that the two FL values are independent of each other. For example, two
packets can belong to the same VPN flow but different LSP flows, or two packets can belong to
different VPN flows but the same LSP flow.

4.  Procedures of Encapsulation, Look-Up, and Decapsulation

The procedures for FL encapsulation, look-up, and decapsulation are summarized as follows:

•

The MPLS ingress node
the same time, the ingress node sets the FL value, the two color-marking bits, and the T bit,
as defined in Section 3.

 inserts the XL, FLI, and FL into the MPLS label stack. At

[RFC3031]

•

[RFC3031]

If edge-to-edge measurement is applied, i.e., the T bit is set to 1, then only the MPLS ingress/
 is the processing node; otherwise, all the MPLS nodes along the LSP
egress node
are the processing nodes. The processing node looks up the FL with the help of the XL and
FLI, and exports the collected data (such as the Flow-ID, block counters, and timestamps) to
an external NMS/controller, referring to the Alternate-Marking Method. Section 6 of
MARK]
 describes protocols for collected data export; the details on how to export the

[ALT-

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

collected data are outside the scope of this document. Note that while looking up the FL, the
transit node needs to inspect beyond the label at the top of the label stack used to make
forwarding decisions.

•

The processing node
to pop the preceding forwarding label. The egress node
stack. This document doesn't introduce any new process to the decapsulated packet.

 pop the XL, FLI, and FL from the MPLS label stack when it needs
MUST

 pop the whole MPLS label

MUST

5.  Procedures of Flow-ID Allocation

There are at least two ways of allocating Flow-ID. One way is to allocate Flow-ID by a manual
trigger from the network operator, and the other way is to allocate Flow-ID by an automatic
trigger from the ingress node. Details are as follows:

•

In the case of a manual trigger, the network operator manually inputs the characteristics
(e.g., IP five tuples and IP DSCP) of the measured flow; then the NMS/controller generates one
or two Flow-IDs based on the input from the network operator and provisions the ingress
node with the characteristics of the measured flow and the corresponding allocated Flow-
ID(s).

•

In the case of an automatic trigger, the ingress node identifies the flow entering the
measured path and exports the characteristics of the identified flow to the NMS/controller by
IPFIX
characteristics exported from the ingress node and provisions the ingress node with the
characteristics of the identified flow and the corresponding allocated Flow-ID(s).

; then the NMS/controller generates one or two Flow-IDs based on the

[RFC7011]

The policy preconfigured at the NMS/controller decides whether one Flow-ID or two Flow-IDs are
generated. If the performance measurement on the MPLS service is enabled, then one Flow-ID
applied to the MPLS service is generated. If the performance measurement on the MPLS
transport is enabled, then one Flow-ID applied to the MPLS transport is generated. If both of
them are enabled, then two Flow-IDs are respectively applied to the MPLS service and the MPLS
transport are generated. In this case, a transit node needs to look up both of the two Flow-IDs by
default. However, this behavior can be changed through configuration, such as by setting it to
look up only the Flow-ID applied to the MPLS transport.

MUST

MUST NOT

 have any value in the reserved label space (0-15)

Whether using the two methods mentioned above or other methods to allocate Flow-ID, the NMS/
controller
 ensure that every generated Flow-ID is unique within the administrative domain
and
statement of "Flow-ID is unique" means that the values of Flow-ID are distinct and non-
redundant for any flow at any given time within an administrative domain, such that no two
flows share the same Flow-ID. This uniqueness ensures that each flow can be individually
identified, tracked, and differentiated from others for accurate performance monitoring and
management.

. Specifically, the

[RFC3032]

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

6.  FLC and FRLD Considerations

Analogous to the Entropy Label Capability (ELC) defined in
Entropy Readable Label Depth (ERLD) defined in
Capability (FLC) and the Flow-ID Readable Label Depth (FRLD) are defined in this document.
Both FLC and FRLD have similar semantics with the ELC and ERLD to a router, except that the
Flow-ID is used in its flow identification function while the Entropy is used in its load-balancing
function.

 and the
, the Flow-ID Label

Section 4 of [RFC8662]

Section 5 of [RFC6790]

MUST

 insert each FL at an appropriate depth, which ensures the node to which

The ingress node
 insert each FL within an appropriate
the FL is exposed has the FLC. The ingress node
FRLD, which is the minimum FRLD of all the on-path nodes that need to read and use the FL in
question. How the ingress node knows the FLC and FRLD of all the on-path nodes is outside the
scope of this document.

SHOULD

When the SR paths are used for transport, the label stack grows as the number of on-path
segments increases. If the number of on-path segments is high, that may become a challenge for
the FL to be placed within an appropriate FRLD. To overcome this potential challenge, an
implementation
multiple identical FLs at different depths
sophisticated network planning may be needed, which is beyond the scope of this document.

 allow the ingress node to place FL between SID labels. This means that

 be interleaved with SID labels. When this occurs,

MAY

MAY

7.  Equal-Cost Multipath Considerations

Section 5 of [RFC8957]
Analogous to what's described in
multipath, the introduction of the FL may lead to the same problem that is caused by the
Synonymous Flow Label (SFL)
Specifically, adding FL to an existing flow may cause that flow to take a different path. If the
[RFC6790]
operator expects to resolve this problem, they can choose to apply entropy labels
add FL to all flows.

. The two solutions proposed for SFL also apply here.

, under conditions of equal-cost

[RFC8957]

 or

8.  Security Considerations

Section 7.1 of [RFC9341]

, "for security reasons, the Alternate-Marking Method

 only be applied to controlled domains." This requirement applies when the MPLS

As specified in
MUST
performance measurement with Alternate-Marking Method is taken into account, which means
 only be applied
the MPLS encapsulation and related procedures defined in this document
to controlled domains; otherwise, the potential attacks discussed in
 may
be applied to the deployed MPLS networks.

Section 10 of [RFC9341]

MUST

As specified in Section 3, the value of an FL
MUST
other words, the administrative domain is the scope of an FL. The method for achieving multi-
domain performance measurement with the same FL is outside the scope of this document. The

 be unique within the administrative domain. In

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

MUST NOT

 be signaled and distributed outside the administrative domain. Improper

FL
configuration that allows the FL to be passed from one administrative domain to another would
result in Flow-ID conflicts.

MUST

 deploy policies (e.g., ACL) to filter out these packets. Specifically, at the sending edge,

To prevent packets carrying FLs from leaking from one domain to another, domain boundary
nodes
the domain boundary node
MUST
domains. At the receiving edge, the domain boundary node
FLI and are from other domains. Note that packet leakage is neither breaching privacy nor a
source of DoS.

 filter out the packets that carry the FLI and are sent to other

 drop the packets that carry the

MUST

9.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned the following value in the "Extended Special-Purpose MPLS Label Values"
registry within the "Special-Purpose Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Values" registry
group:

Value Description

Reference

18

Flow-ID Label Indicator (FLI)

RFC 9714

Table 1: New Extended Special-Purpose MPLS Label
Value for Flow-ID Label Indicator

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3031]

[RFC3032]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9017]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Rosen, E. Viswanathan, A.
Architecture" RFC 3031 DOI 10.17487/RFC3031
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc3031>
.

, and

R. Callon "Multiprotocol Label Switching

,

, January 2001,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Rosen, E. Tappan, D. Fedorkow, G. Rekhter, Y. Farinacci, D. Li, T.
"MPLS Label Stack Encoding" RFC 3032 DOI 10.17487/RFC3032
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3032>

.

,

,

,

,

,

, and

A. Conta
, January 2001,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Andersson, L. Kompella, K.
,
, and
RFC 9017 DOI 10.17487/RFC9017
rfc9017>

,
.

A. Farrel "Special-Purpose Label Terminology"
, April 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

10.2.  Informative References

[ALT-MARK]

[RFC4026]

[RFC6790]

[RFC7011]

[RFC8372]

[RFC8662]

[RFC8957]

[RFC9341]

[RFC9613]

,

,

Fioccola, G. Zhu, K. Graf, T. Nilo, M.
, and
Deployment Framework" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-ippm-alt-
mark-deployment-02
draft-ietf-ippm-alt-mark-deployment-02>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/

L. Zhang "Alternate Marking

, 9 October 2024,

,

,

,

,

.

 and

Andersson, L.
(VPN) Terminology" RFC 4026 DOI 10.17487/RFC4026
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4026>

T. Madsen "Provider Provisioned Virtual Private Network
<https://

, March 2005,

,

,

,

.

,

Kompella, K. Drake, J. Amante, S. Henderickx, W.
Entropy Labels in MPLS Forwarding" RFC 6790 DOI 10.17487/RFC6790
November 2012,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6790>

, and

L. Yong "The Use of

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Claise, B., Ed. Trammell, B., Ed.
Information Export (IPFIX) Protocol for the Exchange of Flow Information" STD
77 RFC 7011 DOI 10.17487/RFC7011
editor.org/info/rfc7011>

P. Aitken "Specification of the IP Flow

, September 2013,

<https://www.rfc-

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

Bryant, S. Pignataro, C. Chen, M. Li, Z.
, and
Identification Considerations" RFC 8372 DOI 10.17487/RFC8372
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8372>
.

G. Mirsky "MPLS Flow

,

,

,

,

, May 2018,

,

,

Kini, S. Kompella, K. Sivabalan, S. Litkowski, S. Shakir, R.
"Entropy Label for Source Packet Routing in Networking (SPRING) Tunnels" RFC
8662 DOI 10.17487/RFC8662
,
rfc8662>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, December 2019,

J. Tantsura

, and

,
,

,

,

.

,

Bryant, S. Chen, M. Swallow, G. Sivabalan, S.
Flow Label Framework" RFC 8957 DOI 10.17487/RFC8957
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8957>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

G. Mirsky "Synonymous

,

, January 2021,

,

Fioccola, G., Ed. Cociglio, M. Mirsky, G. Mizrahi, T.
Marking Method" RFC 9341 DOI 10.17487/RFC9341
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9341>

,
,

,

,

.

T. Zhou "Alternate-

, and
, December 2022,

<https://

,

,

Bocci, M., Ed. Bryant, S.
MPLS Network Actions (MNAs)" RFC 9613 DOI 10.17487/RFC9613
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9613>

J. Drake "Requirements for Solutions that Support
, August 2024,

, and

,
.

,

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

Acknowledgements

,

Loa Andersson Tarek Saad Stewart Bryant Rakesh Gandhi Greg
The authors acknowledge
Mirsky Aihua Liu Shuangping Zhan Ming Ke Wei He Ximing Dong Darren Dukes Tony Li
,
,
James Guichard Daniele Ceccarelli Éric Vyncke John Scudder Gunter van de Velde Roman
Danyliw Warren Kumari Murray Kucherawy Deb Cooley Zaheduzzaman Sarker
,
,
Brungard

 for their careful review and very helpful comments.

,
,
, and

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Deborah

They also acknowledge
review and constructive comments.

Italo Busi

 and

Chandrasekar Ramachandran

 for their insightful MPLS-RT

Additionally, the authors thank

Dhruv Dhody

 for the English grammar review.

Contributors

Minxue Wang
China Mobile
Email:

wangminxue@chinamobile.com

Wen Ye
China Mobile
Email:

yewen@chinamobile.com

Authors' Addresses

chengweiqiang@chinamobile.com

editor
)

Weiqiang Cheng (
China Mobile
Beijing
China
Email:

editor
)

Xiao Min (
ZTE Corp.
Nanjing
China
Email:

xiao.min2@zte.com.cn

Tianran Zhou
Huawei
Beijing
China
Email:

zhoutianran@huawei.com

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9714

Encap for MPLS PM with AMM

February 2025

Jinyou Dai
FiberHome
Wuhan
China
Email:

djy@fiberhome.com

Yoav Peleg
Broadcom
United States of America
Email:

yoav.peleg@broadcom.com

Cheng, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

