Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9607
Standards Track
July 2024
2070-1721
D. Hanson
General Dynamics Mission Systems, Inc.

K. Maver
General Dynamics Mission Systems, Inc.

M. Faller
General Dynamics Mission Systems, Inc.

RFC 9607
RTP Payload Format for the Secure Communication
Interoperability Protocol (SCIP) Codec

Abstract

This document describes the RTP payload format of the Secure Communication Interoperability
Protocol (SCIP). SCIP is an application-layer protocol that provides end-to-end session
establishment, payload encryption, packetization and de-packetization of media, and reliable
transport. This document provides a globally available reference that can be used for the
development of network equipment and procurement of services that support SCIP traffic. The
intended audience is network security policymakers; network administrators, architects, and
original equipment manufacturers (OEMs); procurement personnel; and government agency and
commercial industry representatives.

IESG Note

[SCIP210]

This IETF specification depends upon a second technical specification that is not available
publicly, namely
specification, independently or when carried inside Audio/Video Transport (AVT). Implementers
need to be aware that the IETF hence cannot verify any of the security claims contained in this
document.

. The IETF was therefore unable to conduct a security review of that

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9607
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Key Points

2.  Introduction

2.1.  Conventions

2.2.  Abbreviations

3.  Background

4.  Payload Format

4.1.  RTP Header Fields

4.2.  Congestion Control Considerations

4.3.  Use of Augmented RTPs with SCIP

5.  Payload Format Parameters

5.1.  Media Subtype "audio/scip"

5.2.  Media Subtype "video/scip"

5.3.  Mapping to SDP

5.4.  SDP Offer/Answer Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  SCIP Contact Information

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

3

3

4

4

5

6

8

8

9

9

9

10

11

11

12

12

12

13

13

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

9.2.  Informative References

Authors' Addresses

1.  Key Points

14

15

•

SCIP is an application-layer protocol that uses RTP as a transport. This document defines the
SCIP media subtypes to be listed in the Session Description Protocol (SDP) and only requires
a basic RTP transport channel for SCIP payloads. This basic transport channel is comparable
to Clearmode as defined by

[RFC4040]

.

•

SCIP transmits encrypted traffic and does not require the use of Secure RTP (SRTP) for
payload protection. SCIP also provides for reliable transport at the application layer, so it is
not necessary to negotiate RTCP retransmission capabilities.

•

SCIP includes built-in mechanisms that negotiate protocol message versions and capabilities.
To avoid SCIP protocol ossification (as described in
middleboxes to not attempt parsing of the SCIP payload. As described in this document, such
parsing serves no useful purpose.

), it is important for

[RFC9170]

•

SCIP is designed to be network agnostic. It can operate over any digital link, including non-IP
modem-based PSTN and ISDN. The SCIP media subtypes listed in this document were
developed for SCIP to operate over RTP.

•

SCIP handles packetization and de-packetization of payloads by producing encrypted media
packets that are not greater than the MTU size. The SCIP payload is opaque to the network,
therefore, SCIP functions as a tunneling protocol for the encrypted media, without the need
for middleboxes to parse SCIP payloads. Since SCIP payloads are integrity protected,
modification of the SCIP payload is detected as an integrity violation by SCIP endpoints,
leading to communication failure.

2.  Introduction

This document details usage of the "audio/scip" and "video/scip" pseudo-codecs
secure session establishment protocol and media transport protocol over RTP.

[MediaTypes]

 as a

It discusses how:

1.

encrypted audio and video codec payloads are transported over RTP;

2.

the IP network layer does not implement SCIP as a protocol since SCIP operates at the
application layer in endpoints;

3.

the IP network layer enables SCIP traffic to transparently pass through the network;

4.

some network devices do not recognize SCIP and may remove the SCIP codecs from the SDP
media payload declaration before forwarding to the next network node; and finally,

5.

SCIP endpoint devices do not operate on networks if the SCIP media subtype is removed
from the SDP media payload declaration.

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

The United States, along with its NATO Partners, have implemented SCIP in secure voice, video,
and data products operating on commercial, private, and tactical IP networks worldwide using
the scip media subtype. The SCIP data traversing the network is encrypted, and network
equipment in-line with the session cannot interpret the traffic stream in any way. SCIP-based RTP
traffic is opaque and can vary significantly in structure and frequency, making traffic profiling
not possible. Also, as the SCIP protocol continues to evolve independently of this document, any
network device that attempts to filter traffic (e.g., deep packet inspection) may cause unintended
consequences in the future when changes to the SCIP traffic may not be recognized by the
network device.

[SCIP210]
The SCIP protocol defined in SCIP-210
de-packetization, retransmission, capability exchange, version negotiation, and payload
encryption. Since the traffic is encrypted, neither the RTP transport nor middleboxes can usefully
parse or modify SCIP payloads; modifications are detected as integrity violations resulting in
retransmission, and eventually, communication failure.

 includes built-in support for packetization and

Because knowledge of the SCIP payload format is not needed to transport SCIP signaling or media
through middleboxes, SCIP-210 represents an informative reference. While older versions of the
SCIP-210 specification are publicly available, the authors strongly encourage network
implementers to treat SCIP payloads as opaque octets. When handled correctly, such treatment
does not require referring to SCIP-210, and any assumptions about the format of SCIP messages
defined in SCIP-210 are likely to lead to protocol ossification and communication failures as the
protocol evolves.

Note: The IETF has not conducted a security review of SCIP and therefore has not
verified the claims contained in this document.

2.1.  Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The best current practices for writing an RTP payload format specification, as per
[RFC8088]

, were followed.

[RFC2736]

 and

When referring to the Secure Communication Interoperability Protocol, the uppercase acronym
"SCIP" is used. When referring to the media subtype scip, lowercase "scip" is used.

2.2.  Abbreviations

The following abbreviations are used in this document.

AVP:

Audio-Visual Profile

AVPF:

Audio-Visual Profile with Feedback

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

FNBDT:

Future Narrowband Digital Terminal

ICWG:

Interoperability Control Working Group

IICWG:

International Interoperability Control Working Group

MELPe:

Mixed Excitation Linear Prediction Enhanced

MTU:

Maximum Transmission Unit

NATO:

North Atlantic Treaty Organization

OEM:

Original Equipment Manufacturer

SAVP:

Secure Audio-Visual Profile

SAVPF:

Secure Audio-Visual Profile with Feedback

SCIP:

Secure Communication Interoperability Protocol

SDP:

Session Description Protocol

SRTP:

Secure Real-time Transport Protocol

STANAG:

Standardization Agreement

3.  Background

The Secure Communication Interoperability Protocol (SCIP) allows the negotiation of several
voice, data, and video applications using various cryptographic suites. SCIP also provides several
important characteristics that have led to its broad acceptance as a secure communications
protocol.

SCIP began in the United States as the Future Narrowband Digital Terminal (FNBDT) Protocol in
the late 1990s. A combined U.S. Department of Defense and vendor consortium formed a
governing organization named the Interoperability Control Working Group (ICWG) to manage
the protocol. In time, the group expanded to include NATO, NATO partners, and European
vendors under the name International Interoperability Control Working Group (IICWG), which
was later renamed the SCIP Working Group.

First generation SCIP devices operated on circuit-switched networks. SCIP was then expanded to
radio and IP networks. The scip media subtype transports SCIP secure session establishment
signaling and secure application traffic. The built-in negotiation and flexibility provided by the
SCIP protocols make it a natural choice for many scenarios that require various secure
applications and associated encryption suites. SCIP has been adopted by NATO in STANAG 5068.
SCIP standards are currently available to participating government and military communities
and select OEMs of equipment that support SCIP.

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

However, SCIP must operate over global networks (including private and commercial networks).
Without access to necessary information to support SCIP, some networks may not support the
SCIP media subtypes. Issues may occur simply because information is not as readily available to
OEMs, network administrators, and network architects.

This document provides essential information about the "audio/scip" and "video/scip" media
subtypes that enable network equipment manufacturers to include settings for "scip" as a known
audio and video media subtype in their equipment. This enables network administrators to
define and implement a compatible security policy that includes audio and video media subtypes
"audio/scip" and "video/scip", respectively, as permitted codecs on the network.

All current IP-based SCIP endpoints implement "scip" as a media subtype. Registration of scip as
a media subtype provides a common reference for network equipment manufacturers to
recognize SCIP in an SDP payload declaration.

4.  Payload Format

The "scip" media subtype identifies and indicates support for SCIP traffic that is being
transported over RTP. Transcoding, lossy compression, or other data modifications
MUST NOT
performed by the network on the SCIP RTP payload. The "audio/scip" and "video/scip" media
subtype data streams within the network, including the VoIP network,
relay and be treated as "clear-channel data", similar to the Clearmode media subtype defined by
[RFC4040]
.

 be a transparent

MUST

 be

 is referenced because Clearmode does not define specific RTP payload content, packet

[RFC4040]
size, or packet intervals, but rather enables Clearmode devices to signal that they support a
compatible mode of operation and defines a transparent channel on which devices may
communicate. This document takes a similar approach. Network devices that implement support
for SCIP need to enable SCIP endpoints to signal that they support SCIP and provide a
transparent channel on which SCIP endpoints may communicate.

SCIP is an application-layer protocol that is defined in SCIP-210. The SCIP traffic consists of
encrypted SCIP control messages and codec data. The payload size and interval will vary
considerably depending on the state of the SCIP protocol within the SCIP device.

Figure 1 below illustrates the RTP payload format for SCIP.

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                           RTP Header                          |
+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+=+
|                                                               |
|                          SCIP Payload                         |
|                                                               |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 1: SCIP RTP Payload Format

The SCIP codec produces an encrypted bitstream that is transported over RTP. Unlike other
codecs, SCIP does not have its own upper layer syntax (e.g., no Network Adaptation Layer (NAL)
units), but rather encrypts the output of the audio and video codecs that it uses (e.g., G.729D, H.
, etc.). SCIP achieves this by encapsulating the encrypted codec output that has
264
been previously formatted according to the relevant RTP payload specification for that codec.
SCIP endpoints
in

 employ mechanisms, such as inter-media RTP synchronization as described

, to synchronize "audio/scip" and "video/scip" streams.

[RFC8088], Section 3.3.4

[RFC6184]

MAY

Figure 2 below illustrates notionally how codec packets and SCIP control messages are
packetized for transmission over RTP.

+-----------+              +-----------------------+
|   Codec   |              | SCIP control messages |
+-----------+              +-----------------------+
      |                                |
      |                                |
      V                                V
+--------------------------------------------------+
|             Packetizer* (<= MTU size)            |
+--------------------------------------------------+
          |                        |
          |                        |
          V                        |
  +--------------+                 |
  |  Encryption  |                 |
  +--------------+                 |
          |                        |
          |                        |
          V                        V
+--------------------------------------------------+
|                      RTP                         |
+--------------------------------------------------+

Figure 2: SCIP RTP Architecture

* Packetizer:

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

The SCIP application layer will ensure that all traffic sent to the RTP layer will not exceed the
MTU size. The receiving SCIP RTP layer will handle packet identification, ordering, and
reassembly. When required, the SCIP application layer handles error detection and
retransmission.

As described above, the SCIP RTP payload format is variable and cannot be described in
specificity in this document. Details can be found in SCIP-210. SCIP will continue to evolve and, as
such, the SCIP RTP traffic
 be filtered by network devices based upon what currently is
observed or documented. The focus of this document is for network devices to consider the SCIP
RTP payload as opaque and allow it to traverse the network. Network devices
 modify
SCIP RTP packets.

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

4.1.  RTP Header Fields

The SCIP RTP header fields

SHALL

 conform to

[RFC3550]
.

SCIP traffic may be continuous or discontinuous. The Timestamp field
the sampling clock for discontinuous transmission as described in
Timestamp field for continuous transmission applications is dependent on the sampling rate of
the media as specified in the media subtype's specification (e.g., Mixed Excitation Linear
Prediction Enhanced (MELPe)). Note that during a SCIP session, both discontinuous and
continuous traffic are highly probable.

[RFC3550], Section 5.1

 increment based on

MUST

. The

SHALL

The Marker bit
traffic is based on the underlying media subtype specification. The underlying media is opaque
within SCIP RTP packets.

 be set to zero for discontinuous traffic. The Marker bit for continuous

4.2.  Congestion Control Considerations

[RFC8130]

The bitrate of SCIP may be adjusted depending on the capability of the underlying codec (such as
MELPe
, etc.). The number of encoded audio frames per packet may
also be adjusted to control congestion. Discontinuous transmission may also be used if supported
by the underlying codec.

[RFC3551]

, G.729D

Since UDP does not provide congestion control, applications that use RTP over UDP
implement their own congestion control above the UDP layer
a transport circuit breaker
(RMCAT) working group
between the application components that relate to congestion control, including the RTP layer,
the higher-level media codec control layer, and the lower-level transport interface, as well as
components dedicated to congestion control functions.

[RFC8085]
. Work in the RTP Media Congestion Avoidance Techniques
 describes the interactions and conceptual interfaces necessary

 also implement

[RFC8083]

[RMCAT]

SHOULD

 and

MAY

Use of the packet loss feedback mechanisms in AVPF
OPTIONAL
Specifically, the payload-specific feedback messages defined in
OPTIONAL

 when transporting video data.

[RFC4585]

 and SAVPF

[RFC5124]

 are

[RFC4585], Section 6.3

 are

 because SCIP itself manages retransmissions of some errored or lost packets.

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

4.3.  Use of Augmented RTPs with SCIP

The SCIP application-layer protocol uses RTP as a basic transport for the "audio/scip" and "video/
 in
scip" payloads. Additional RTPs that do not modify the SCIP payload are considered
this document and are discretionary for a SCIP device vendor to implement. Some examples
include, but are not limited to:

OPTIONAL

•

"RTP Payload Format for Generic Forward Error Correction"

[RFC5109]

•

"Multiplexing RTP Data and Control Packets on a Single Port"

[RFC5761]

•

"Symmetric RTP / RTP Control Protocol (RTCP)"

[RFC4961]

•

"Negotiating Media Multiplexing Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" a.k.a. BUNDLE
[RFC9143]

5.  Payload Format Parameters

The SCIP RTP payload format is identified using the scip media subtype, which is registered in
accordance with
rate of 8000 Hz
"video/scip".

 and per the media type registration template from
SHALL

 be used for "audio/scip". A clock rate of 90000 Hz

[RFC6838]
 be used for

[RFC4855]

SHALL

. A clock

5.1.  Media Subtype "audio/scip"

Type name:

audio

Subtype name:

scip

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

Binary. This media subtype is only defined for transfer via RTP. There

SHALL

 be no transcoding of the audio stream as it traverses the network.

Security considerations:

See Section 6.

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published specification:

[SCIP210]

Applications that use this media type:

N/A

Fragment identifier considerations:

none

Additional information:

Deprecated alias names for this type:
Magic number(s):
File extension(s):

N/A
N/A

N/A

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

Macintosh file type code(s):

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Michael Faller (michael.faller@gd-

ms.com or MichaelFFaller@gmail.com) and Daniel Hanson (dan.hanson@gd-ms.com)

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Authors:

Michael Faller (michael.faller@gd-ms.com or MichaelFFaller@gmail.com) and Daniel

Hanson (dan.hanson@gd-ms.com)

Change controller:

SCIP Working Group (ncia.cis3@ncia.nato.int)

5.2.  Media Subtype "video/scip"

Type name:

video

Subtype name:

scip

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

Binary. This media subtype is only defined for transfer via RTP. There

SHALL

 be no transcoding of the video stream as it traverses the network.

Security considerations:

See Section 6.

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published specification:

[SCIP210]

Applications that use this media type:

N/A

Fragment identifier considerations:

none

Additional information:

Deprecated alias names for this type:
Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh file type code(s):

N/A
N/A

N/A

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Michael Faller (michael.faller@gd-

ms.com or MichaelFFaller@gmail.com) and Daniel Hanson (dan.hanson@gd-ms.com)

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Authors:

Michael Faller (michael.faller@gd-ms.com or MichaelFFaller@gmail.com) and Daniel

Hanson (dan.hanson@gd-ms.com)

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

Change controller: SCIP Working Group (ncia.cis3@ncia.nato.int)

5.3.  Mapping to SDP

The mapping of the above-defined payload format media subtype and its parameters
implemented according to

Section 3 of [RFC4855]
.

SHALL

 be

Since SCIP includes its own facilities for capabilities exchange, it is only necessary to negotiate
the use of SCIP within SDP Offer/Answer; the specific codecs to be encapsulated within SCIP are
then negotiated via the exchange of SCIP control messages.

The information carried in the media type specification has a specific mapping to fields in the
Session Description Protocol (SDP)
When SDP is used to specify sessions employing the SCIP codec, the mapping is as follows:

, which is commonly used to describe RTP sessions.

[RFC8866]

•

The media type ("audio") goes in SDP "m=" as the media name for "audio/scip", and the media
type ("video") goes in SDP "m=" as the media name for "video/scip".

•

The media subtype ("scip") goes in SDP "a=rtpmap" as the encoding name. The required
parameter "rate" also goes in "a=rtpmap" as the clock rate.

•

The optional parameters "ptime" and "maxptime" go in the SDP "a=ptime" and "a=maxptime"
attributes, respectively.

An example mapping for "audio/scip" is:

  m=audio 50000 RTP/AVP 96
  a=rtpmap:96 scip/8000

An example mapping for "video/scip" is:

  m=video 50002 RTP/AVP 97
  a=rtpmap:97 scip/90000

An example mapping for both "audio/scip" and "video/scip" is:

  m=audio 50000 RTP/AVP 96
  a=rtpmap:96 scip/8000
  m=video 50002 RTP/AVP 97
  a=rtpmap:97 scip/90000

5.4.  SDP Offer/Answer Considerations

In accordance with the SDP Offer/Answer model
payload type number in order of preference in the "m" media line.

[RFC3264]

, the SCIP device

SHALL

 list the SCIP

For example, an SDP Offer with scip as the preferred audio media subtype:

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

  m=audio 50000 RTP/AVP 96 0 8
  a=rtpmap:96 scip/8000
  a=rtpmap:0 PCMU/8000
  a=rtpmap:8 PCMA/8000

6.  Security Considerations

[RFC7202]

[RFC3551]

, RTP/AVPF

[RFC3550]
, RTP/SAVP

, and in any applicable RTP profile
[RFC3711]
, or RTP/SAVPF

RTP packets using the payload format defined in this specification are subject to the security
considerations discussed in the RTP specification
[RFC5124]
[RFC4585]
such as RTP/AVP
.
However, as "Securing the RTP Framework: Why RTP Does Not Mandate a Single Media Security
Solution"
mandate what solutions are used to meet the basic security goals like confidentiality, integrity,
and source authenticity for RTP in general. This responsibility lies on anyone using RTP in an
application. They can find guidance on available security mechanisms and important
considerations in "Options for Securing RTP Sessions"
or more appropriate strong security mechanisms. The rest of this Security Considerations section
discusses the security impacting properties of the payload format itself.

 discusses, it is not an RTP payload format's responsibility to discuss or

. Applications

[RFC7201]

 use one

SHOULD

This RTP payload format and its media decoder do not exhibit any significant non-uniformity in
the receiver-side computational complexity for packet processing, and thus do not inherently
pose a denial-of-service threat due to the receipt of pathological data, nor does the RTP payload
format contain any active content.

SCIP only encrypts the contents transported in the RTP payload; it does not protect the RTP
header or RTCP packets. Applications requiring additional RTP headers and/or RTCP security
[RFC3711]
might consider mechanisms such as SRTP
considered

, however these additional mechanisms are

 in this document.

OPTIONAL

7.  IANA Considerations

The "audio/scip" and "video/scip" media subtypes have previously been registered in the "Media
. IANA has updated these registrations to reference this document.
Types" registry

[MediaTypes]

8.  SCIP Contact Information

The SCIP protocol is maintained by the SCIP Working Group. The current SCIP-210 specification
[SCIP210]

 may be requested from the email address below.

SCIP Working Group, CIS3 Partnership
NATO Communications and Information Agency
Oude Waalsdorperweg 61
2597 AK The Hague, Netherlands
Email:

ncia.cis3@ncia.nato.int

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

An older public version of the SCIP-210 specification can be downloaded from
www.iad.gov/SecurePhone/index.cfm
installed to access this website.

. A U.S. Department of Defense Root Certificate should be

https://

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2736]

[RFC3264]

[RFC3550]

[RFC3551]

[RFC3711]

[RFC4585]

[RFC5124]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8866]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Handley, M.
,
Specifications" BCP 36 RFC 2736 DOI 10.17487/RFC2736
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2736>

C. Perkins "Guidelines for Writers of RTP Payload Format
, December 1999,

 and
,

,

,

.

 and

Rosenberg, J.
Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 3264 DOI 10.17487/RFC3264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3264>

H. Schulzrinne "An Offer/Answer Model with Session

, June 2002,

,

,

,

.

,

Schulzrinne, H. Casner, S. Frederick, R.
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
, and
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

Schulzrinne, H.
with Minimal Control" STD 65 RFC 3551 DOI 10.17487/RFC3551
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3551>
.

S. Casner "RTP Profile for Audio and Video Conferences
, July 2003,

,
,

,

,

Baugher, M. McGrew, D. Naslund, M. Carrara, E.
,
Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 3711 DOI 10.17487/RFC3711
2004,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3711>

, and

,
,

,
.

K. Norrman "The Secure
,

, March

,

,

,

J. Rey "Extended RTP Profile for
Ott, J. Wenger, S. Sato, N. Burmeister, C.
Real-time Transport Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/AVPF)" RFC
4585 DOI 10.17487/RFC4585
,
rfc4585>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2006,

, and

,

,

.

 and

E. Carrara "Extended Secure RTP Profile for Real-time Transport

Ott, J.
Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/SAVPF)" RFC 5124 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5124

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5124>

, February 2008,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Begen, A. Kyzivat, P. Perkins, C.
,
Protocol" RFC 8866 DOI 10.17487/RFC8866
,
editor.org/info/rfc8866>

, and

,
,

.

M. Handley "SDP: Session Description
<https://www.rfc-

, January 2021,

,

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

9.2.  Informative References

[MediaTypes]

[RFC4040]

[RFC4855]

[RFC4961]

[RFC5109]

[RFC5761]

[RFC6184]

[RFC6838]

[RFC7201]

[RFC7202]

[RFC8083]

[RFC8085]

[RFC8088]

[RFC8130]

IANA "Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types>

,

,

.

Kreuter, R. "RTP Payload Format for a 64 kbit/s Transparent Call" RFC 4040 DOI
10.17487/RFC4040

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4040>

, April 2005,

,

,

,

.

Casner, S. "Media Type Registration of RTP Payload Formats" RFC 4855 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4855>
10.17487/RFC4855
.

, February 2007,

,

,

,

Wing, D. "Symmetric RTP / RTP Control Protocol (RTCP)" BCP 131 RFC 4961 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC4961

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4961>

, July 2007,

,

,

,

.

,

Li, A., Ed. "RTP Payload Format for Generic Forward Error Correction" RFC
5109 DOI 10.17487/RFC5109
, December 2007,
,
rfc5109>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

.

Perkins, C.
 and
Single Port" RFC 5761 DOI 10.17487/RFC5761
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc5761>

.

M. Westerlund "Multiplexing RTP Data and Control Packets on a

,

, April 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Wang, Y.-K. Even, R. Kristensen, T.
, and
,
Video" RFC 6184 DOI 10.17487/RFC6184
,
,
info/rfc6184>

.

,

R. Jesup "RTP Payload Format for H.264
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
, May 2011,

Freed, N. Klensin, J.
,
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

,

,

.

T. Hansen "Media Type Specifications and Registration

, January 2013,

<https://

Westerlund, M.
DOI 10.17487/RFC7201

C. Perkins "Options for Securing RTP Sessions" RFC 7201
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7201>

, April 2014,

 and

,

,

,

 and

Perkins, C.
Not Mandate a Single Media Security Solution" RFC 7202 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7202

M. Westerlund "Securing the RTP Framework: Why RTP Does
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7202>

, April 2014,

,

,

.

 and

Perkins, C.
Unicast RTP Sessions" RFC 8083 DOI 10.17487/RFC8083
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8083>

V. Singh "Multimedia Congestion Control: Circuit Breakers for
<https://

, March 2017,

,

,

.

,

Eggert, L. Fairhurst, G.
, and
8085 DOI 10.17487/RFC8085
,
rfc8085>

.

G. Shepherd "UDP Usage Guidelines" BCP 145 RFC
,
, March 2017,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Westerlund, M. "How to Write an RTP Payload Format" RFC 8088 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8088>
RFC8088

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

 and

D. Satterlee "RTP Payload Format for the Mixed Excitation
Demjanenko, V.
Linear Prediction Enhanced (MELPe) Codec" RFC 8130 DOI 10.17487/RFC8130
,
March 2017,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8130>

,
.

,

,

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9607

SCIP RTP Payload Format

July 2024

[RFC9143]

[RFC9170]

[RMCAT]

[SCIP210]

C. Jennings "Negotiating Media Multiplexing
Holmberg, C. Alvestrand, H.
,
Using the Session Description Protocol (SDP)" RFC 9143 DOI 10.17487/RFC9143
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9143>
February 2022,

, and

,
,

.

,

Thomson, M.
Mechanisms" RFC 9170 DOI 10.17487/RFC9170
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9170>

 and
,

.

T. Pauly "Long-Term Viability of Protocol Extension

,

, December 2021,

<https://

,

IETF "RTP Media Congestion Avoidance Techniques (rmcat)" <https://
datatracker.ietf.org/wg/rmcat/about>

.

,

SCIP Working Group "SCIP Signaling Plan, SCIP-210" Available by request via
email to <ncia.cis3@ncia.nato.int>.

.

,

Authors' Addresses

Daniel Hanson
General Dynamics Mission Systems, Inc.
150 Rustcraft Road
Dedham MA 02026
,
United States of America
Email:

dan.hanson@gd-ms.com

Michael Faller
General Dynamics Mission Systems, Inc.
150 Rustcraft Road
Dedham MA 02026
,
United States of America
Email:

michael.faller@gd-ms.com, MichaelFFaller@gmail.com

Keith Maver
General Dynamics Mission Systems, Inc.
150 Rustcraft Road
Dedham MA 02026
,
United States of America
Email:

keith.maver@gd-ms.com

Hanson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

