Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9582
6482
Standards Track
May 2024
2070-1721
J. Snijders
Fastly

B. Maddison
Workonline

M. Lepinski
Carleton College

D. Kong
Raytheon

S. Kent
Independent

RFC 9582
A Profile for Route Origin Authorizations (ROAs)

Abstract

This document defines a standard profile for Route Origin Authorizations (ROAs). A ROA is a
digitally signed object that provides a means of verifying that an IP address block holder has
authorized an Autonomous System (AS) to originate routes to one or more prefixes within the
address block. This document obsoletes RFC 6482.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9582
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Changes from RFC 6482

2.  Related Work

3.  The ROA Content Type

4.  The ROA eContent

4.1.  The version Element

4.2.  The asID Element

4.3.  The ipAddrBlocks Element

4.3.1.  Type ROAIPAddressFamily

4.3.2.  Type ROAIPAddress

4.3.3.  Canonical Form for ipAddrBlocks

5.  ROA Validation

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  SMI Security for S/MIME CMS Content Type (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1)

7.2.  RPKI Signed Objects Registry

7.3.  File Extension

7.4.  SMI Security for S/MIME Module Identifier (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)

7.5.  Media Type

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Example ROA eContent Payload

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

3

3

3

4

4

4

5

5

5

6

6

7

8

8

9

9

9

9

10

10

11

11

11

12

14

14

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

1.  Introduction

[RFC6480]

The primary purpose of the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) is to improve routing
security. (See
allow entities to verify that an Autonomous System (AS) has been given permission by an IP
address block holder to advertise routes to one or more prefixes within that block. A Route
Origin Authorization (ROA) provides this function.

 for more information.) As part of this system, a mechanism is needed to

The ROA makes use of the template for RPKI digitally signed objects
Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) wrapper
 for the ROA content as well as a generic
validation procedure for RPKI signed objects. Therefore, to complete the specification of the ROA
(see

), this document defines:

Section 4 of [RFC6488]

, which defines a

[RFC5652]

[RFC6488]

•

The OID that identifies the signed object as being a ROA. (This OID appears within the
eContentType in the encapContentInfo object as well as the content-type signed attribute in
the signerInfo object.)

•

The ASN.1 syntax for the ROA eContent. (This is the payload that specifies the AS being
authorized to originate routes as well as the prefixes to which the AS may originate routes.)
.
The ROA eContent is ASN.1 encoded using the Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER)

[X.690]

•

Additional steps required to validate ROAs (in addition to the validation steps specified in
[RFC6488]

).

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Changes from RFC 6482

This section summarizes the significant changes between
this document.

[RFC6482]

 and the profile described in

•

Clarified the requirements for the IP address and AS identifier X.509 certificate extensions.

•

Strengthened the ASN.1 formal notation and definitions.

•

Incorporated errata for RFC 6482.

•

Added an example ROA eContent payload, and a complete ROA (Appendix A).

•

Specified a canonicalization procedure for the content of ipAddrBlocks.

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

2.  Related Work

It is assumed that the reader is familiar with the terms and concepts described in "Internet X.509
Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation List (CRL) Profile"
 and
"X.509 Extensions for IP Addresses and AS Identifiers"

[RFC3779]
.

[RFC5280]

Additionally, this document makes use of the RPKI signed object profile
familiarity with that document is assumed. Note that the RPKI signed object profile makes use of
certificates adhering to the RPKI resource certificate profile
; thus, familiarity with that
profile is also assumed.

[RFC6488]

[RFC6487]

; thus,

3.  The ROA Content Type

The content-type for a ROA is defined as id-ct-routeOriginAuthz and has the numerical value
1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1.24.

This OID
content-type signed attribute in the signerInfo object (see

MUST

 appear within both the eContentType in the encapContentInfo object and the

[RFC6488]

).

4.  The ROA eContent

The content of a ROA identifies a single AS that has been authorized by the address space holder
to originate routes and a list of one or more IP address prefixes that will be advertised. If the
address space holder needs to authorize multiple ASes to advertise the same set of address
prefixes, the holder issues multiple ROAs, one per AS number. A ROA is formally defined as:

RPKI-ROA-2023
  { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549)
  pkcs(1) pkcs9(9) smime(16) mod(0)
  id-mod-rpkiROA-2023(75) }

DEFINITIONS EXPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN

IMPORTS
  CONTENT-TYPE
  FROM CryptographicMessageSyntax-2010 -- in [RFC6268]
    { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1)
      pkcs-9(9) smime(16) modules(0) id-mod-cms-2009(58) } ;

ct-routeOriginAttestation CONTENT-TYPE ::=
  { TYPE RouteOriginAttestation
    IDENTIFIED BY id-ct-routeOriginAuthz }

id-ct-routeOriginAuthz OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
  { iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549) pkcs(1)
    pkcs-9(9) id-smime(16) id-ct(1) routeOriginAuthz(24) }

RouteOriginAttestation ::= SEQUENCE {

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

  version [0]   INTEGER DEFAULT 0,
  asID          ASID,
  ipAddrBlocks  SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..2)) OF ROAIPAddressFamily }

ASID ::= INTEGER (0..4294967295)

ROAIPAddressFamily ::= SEQUENCE {
  addressFamily ADDRESS-FAMILY.&afi ({AddressFamilySet}),
  addresses     ADDRESS-FAMILY.&Addresses
                               ({AddressFamilySet}{@addressFamily}) }

ADDRESS-FAMILY ::= CLASS {
  &afi          OCTET STRING (SIZE(2)) UNIQUE,
  &Addresses
} WITH SYNTAX { AFI &afi ADDRESSES &Addresses }

AddressFamilySet ADDRESS-FAMILY ::=
  { addressFamilyIPv4 | addressFamilyIPv6 }

addressFamilyIPv4 ADDRESS-FAMILY ::=
  { AFI afi-IPv4 ADDRESSES ROAAddressesIPv4 }
addressFamilyIPv6 ADDRESS-FAMILY ::=
  { AFI afi-IPv6 ADDRESSES ROAAddressesIPv6 }

afi-IPv4 OCTET STRING ::= '0001'H
afi-IPv6 OCTET STRING ::= '0002'H

ROAAddressesIPv4 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..MAX)) OF ROAIPAddress{ub-IPv4}
ROAAddressesIPv6 ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..MAX)) OF ROAIPAddress{ub-IPv6}

ub-IPv4 INTEGER ::= 32
ub-IPv6 INTEGER ::= 128

ROAIPAddress {INTEGER: ub} ::= SEQUENCE {
  address       BIT STRING (SIZE(0..ub)),
  maxLength     INTEGER (0..ub) OPTIONAL }

END

4.1.  The version Element

The version number of the RouteOriginAttestation entry

MUST

 be 0.

4.2.  The asID Element

The asID element contains the AS number that is authorized to originate routes to the given IP
address prefixes.

4.3.  The ipAddrBlocks Element

The ipAddrBlocks element encodes the set of IP address prefixes to which the AS is authorized to
originate routes. Note that the syntax here is more restrictive than that used in the IP address
delegation extension defined in
ranges, whereas ROAs need to represent only IP prefixes.

. That extension can represent arbitrary address

[RFC3779]

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

4.3.1.  Type ROAIPAddressFamily

Within the ROAIPAddressFamily structure, the addressFamily element contains the Address
Family Identifier (AFI) of an IP address family. This specification only supports IPv4 and IPv6;
therefore, addressFamily
mapped IPv6 addresses (

MUST
Section 2.5.5.2 of [RFC4291]

 be either 0001 or 0002. IPv4 prefixes

 appear as IPv4-

MUST NOT

).

MUST

There
ROAIPAddressFamily structure

 be only one instance of ROAIPAddressFamily per unique AFI in the ROA. Thus, the
 appear more than twice.

MUST NOT

The addresses field contains IP prefixes as a sequence of type ROAIPAddress.

4.3.2.  Type ROAIPAddress

A ROAIPAddress structure is a sequence containing an address element of type BIT STRING and
an optional maxLength element of type INTEGER.

4.3.2.1.  The address Element

The address element is of type BIT STRING and represents a single IP address prefix. This field
uses the same representation of an IP address prefix as a BIT STRING as the IPAddress type
defined in

Section 2.2.3.8 of [RFC3779]
.

4.3.2.2.  The maxLength Element

When present, the maxLength element specifies the maximum length of the IP address prefix
 be encoded if the
that the AS is authorized to advertise. The maxLength element
maximum length is equal to the prefix length. Certification Authorities
 anticipate that
future Relying Parties will become increasingly stringent in considering the presence of
superfluous maxLength elements an encoding error.

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

If present, the maxLength element

MUST

 be:

•

an integer greater than or equal to the length of the accompanying prefix, and

•

less than or equal to the maximum length (in bits) of an IP address in the applicable address
family: 32 in the case of IPv4 and 128 in the case of IPv6.

For example, if the IP address prefix is 203.0.113.0/24 and maxLength is 26, the AS is authorized
to advertise any more-specific prefix with a maximum length of 26. In this example, the AS
would be authorized to advertise 203.0.113.0/24, 203.0.113.128/25, or 203.0.113.192/26, but not
203.0.113.0/27. See

 for more information on the use of maxLength.

[RFC9319]

When the maxLength element is not present, the AS is only authorized to advertise the exact
prefix specified in the ROAIPAddress structure's address element.

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

4.3.2.3.  Note on Overlapping or Superfluous Information Encoding

Note that a valid ROA may contain an IP address prefix (within a ROAIPAddress element) that is
encompassed by another IP address prefix (within a separate ROAIPAddress element). For
example, a ROA may contain the prefix 203.0.113.0/24 with maxLength 26, as well as the prefix
203.0.113.0/28 with maxLength 28. This ROA would authorize the indicated AS to advertise any
prefix beginning with 203.0.113 with a minimum length of 24 and a maximum length of 26, as
well as the specific prefix 203.0.113.0/28.

MAY

 contain two ROAIPAddress elements, where the IP address prefix is

Additionally, a ROA
identical in both cases. However, this is
, because in such a case, the
ROAIPAddress element with the shorter maxLength grants no additional privileges to the
indicated AS and thus can be omitted without changing the meaning of the ROA.

NOT RECOMMENDED

4.3.3.  Canonical Form for ipAddrBlocks

As the data structure described by the ROA ASN.1 module allows for many different ways to
represent the same set of IP address information, a canonical form is defined such that every set
of IP address information has a unique representation. In order to produce and verify this
canonical form, the process described in this section
elements are unique with respect to one another and sorted in ascending order. Certification
Authorities
 anticipate that future Relying Parties will impose a strict requirement for
the ipAddrBlocks field to be in this canonical form. This canonicalization procedure builds upon
the canonicalization procedure specified in

 be used to ensure that information

Section 2.2.3.6 of [RFC3779]
.

SHOULD

SHOULD

In order to semantically compare, sort, and deduplicate the contents of the ipAddrBlocks field,
each ROAIPAddress element is mapped to an abstract data element composed of four integer
values:

afi

The AFI value appearing in the addressFamily field of the containing ROAIPAddressFamily

as an integer.

addr

The first IP address of the IP prefix appearing in the ROAIPAddress address field, as a 32-

bit (IPv4) or 128-bit (IPv6) integer value.

plen

The length of the IP prefix appearing in the ROAIPAddress address field as an integer

value.

mlen

The value appearing in the maxLength field of the ROAIPAddress element, if present;

otherwise, the above prefix length value.

Thus, the equality or relative order of two ROAIPAddress elements can be tested by comparing
their abstract representations.

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

4.3.3.1.  Comparator

The set of ipAddrBlocks is totally ordered. The order of two ipAddrBlocks is determined by the
first non-equal comparison in the following list.

1.

Data elements with a lower afi value precede data elements with a higher afi value.

2.

Data elements with a lower addr value precede data elements with a higher addr value.

3.

Data elements with a lower plen value precede data elements with a higher plen value.

4.

Data elements with a lower mlen value precede data elements with a higher mlen value.

Data elements for which all four values compare equal are duplicates of one another.

4.3.3.2.  Example Implementations

•

A sorting implementation

[roasort-c]

 in ISO/IEC 9899:1999 ("ANSI C99").

•

A sorting implementation

[roasort-rs]

 in the Rust 2021 Edition.

5.  ROA Validation

Before a Relying Party can use a ROA to validate a routing announcement, the Relying Party
MUST
checks specified in

 first validate the ROA. To validate a ROA, the Relying Party

 as well as the following additional ROA-specific validation steps:

 perform all the validation

[RFC6488]

MUST

•

The IP address delegation extension
(contained within the ROA), and every IP address prefix in the ROA payload is contained
within the set of IP addresses specified by the EE certificate's IP address delegation
extension.

 is present in the end-entity (EE) certificate

[RFC3779]

•

The EE certificate's IP address delegation extension
described in

[RFC3779]

.

MUST NOT

 contain "inherit" elements as

•

The Autonomous System identifier delegation extension described in
in ROAs and

 be present in the EE certificate.

MUST NOT

[RFC3779]

 is not used

•

The ROA content fully conforms with all requirements specified in Sections 3 and 4.

If any of the above checks fail, the ROA in its entirety
SHOULD

 be logged.

MUST

 be considered invalid and an error

6.  Security Considerations

There is no assumption of confidentiality for the data in a ROA; it is anticipated that ROAs will be
stored in repositories that are accessible to all ISPs, and perhaps to all Internet users. There is no
explicit authentication associated with a ROA, since the PKI used for ROA validation provides
authorization but not authentication. Although the ROA is a signed, application-layer object,
there is no intent to convey non-repudiation via a ROA.

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

The purpose of a ROA is to convey authorization for an AS to originate a route to the prefix or
prefixes in the ROA. Thus, the integrity of a ROA
makes use of the RPKI signed object format; thus, all security considerations discussed in
[RFC6488]
format for integrity; thus, ROAs inherit all security considerations associated with that data
structure.

 also apply to ROAs. Additionally, the signed object profile uses the CMS signed message

 be established. This ROA specification

MUST

The right of the ROA signer to authorize the target AS to originate routes to the prefix or prefixes
is established through the use of the address space and AS number PKI as described in
[RFC6480]
issued under this PKI and check that the prefix or prefixes in the ROA are contained within those
in the certificate's IP address delegation extension.

 verify the signature on the ROA using an X.509 certificate

. Specifically, one

MUST

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  SMI Security for S/MIME CMS Content Type (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1)

IANA has updated the id-ct-routeOriginAuthz entry in the "SMI Security for S/MIME CMS Content
Type (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1)" registry as follows:

Decimal Description

References

24

id-ct-routeOriginAuthz

RFC 9582

Table 1

7.2.  RPKI Signed Objects Registry

IANA has updated the Route Origination Authorization entry in the "RPKI Signed Objects"
registry created by

 as follows:

[RFC6488]

Name

OID

Reference

Route Origination Authorization

1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.1.24

RFC 9582

Table 2

7.3.  File Extension

IANA has updated the entry for the ROA file extension in the "RPKI Repository Name Schemes"
registry created by

 as follows:

[RFC6481]

Filename Extension

RPKI Object

Reference

.roa

Table 3

Route Origination Authorization

RFC 9582

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

7.4.  SMI Security for S/MIME Module Identifier (1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)

IANA has allocated the following entry in the "SMI Security for S/MIME Module Identifier
(1.2.840.113549.1.9.16.0)" registry:

Decimal Description

References

75

id-mod-rpkiROA-2023

RFC 9582

Table 4

7.5.  Media Type

IANA has updated the media type application/rpki-roa in the "Media Types" registry as follows:

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

rpki-roa

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

binary

Security considerations:

Carries an RPKI ROA (RFC 9582). This media type contains no active

content. See Section 6 of RFC 9582 for further information.

Interoperability considerations:

None

Published specification:

RFC 9582

Applications that use this media type:

RPKI operators

Additional information:

Content:

This media type is a signed object, as defined in

[RFC6488]

, which contains a

payload of a list of prefixes and an AS identifier as defined in RFC 9582.

Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh file type code(s):

None
.roa

None

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Job Snijders <job@fastly.com>

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

None

Change controller:

IETF

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3779]

[RFC4291]

[RFC5652]

[RFC6268]

[RFC6481]

[RFC6482]

[RFC6487]

[RFC6488]

[RFC8174]

[X.690]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Lynn, C. Kent, S.
K. Seo "X.509 Extensions for IP Addresses and AS
,
, and
Identifiers" RFC 3779 DOI 10.17487/RFC3779
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc3779>

, June 2004,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

Hinden, R.
10.17487/RFC4291

S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>
.

,
, February 2006,

 and

,

Housley, R. "Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)" STD 70 RFC 5652 DOI
10.17487/RFC5652

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5652>

, September 2009,

,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

S. Turner "Additional New ASN.1 Modules for the Cryptographic

Schaad, J.
Message Syntax (CMS) and the Public Key Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)"
,
RFC 6268 DOI 10.17487/RFC6268
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, July 2011,
rfc6268>

,
.

Huston, G. Loomans, R.
,
Repository Structure" RFC 6481 DOI 10.17487/RFC6481
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6481>

, and

,

.

G. Michaelson "A Profile for Resource Certificate

, February 2012,

<https://

,

Lepinski, M. Kent, S.
(ROAs)" RFC 6482 DOI 10.17487/RFC6482
editor.org/info/rfc6482>

, and

,

,

,

.

D. Kong "A Profile for Route Origin Authorizations

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Huston, G. Michaelson, G.
Certificates" RFC 6487 DOI 10.17487/RFC6487
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc6487>

, and

.

R. Loomans "A Profile for X.509 PKIX Resource
, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Lepinski, M. Chi, A.
,
Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)" RFC 6488 DOI 10.17487/RFC6488
,
2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6488>

S. Kent "Signed Object Template for the Resource

, and

,

.

, February

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

ITU-T "Information Technology - ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic
Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690

, February 2021.

,

8.2.  Informative References

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

[RFC4648]

[RFC5280]

[RFC6480]

[RFC9319]

[roasort-c]

[roasort-rs]

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

.

,

,

,

 and

Lepinski, M.
RFC 6480 DOI 10.17487/RFC6480
info/rfc6480>

,

.

S. Kent "An Infrastructure to Support Secure Internet Routing"
,

,

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Gilad, Y. Goldberg, S. Sriram, K. Snijders, J.
,
maxLength in the Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI)" BCP 185 RFC
9319 DOI 10.17487/RFC9319
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc9319>

B. Maddison "The Use of
,
,

, October 2022,

, and

.

,

,

Snijders, J. "ROA sorter in C" commit 68969ea
,
job/roasort>

,

.

, July 2023,

<https://github.com/

Maddison, B. "ROA sorter in Rust" commit 023e756
,
github.com/benmaddison/roasort>
.

,

, August 2023,

<https://

Appendix A.  Example ROA eContent Payload

An example of a DER-encoded ROA eContent is provided below, with annotation following the "#"
character.

$ echo 16i 301802030100003011300F040200023009300703050020010DB8 P \
  | dc | openssl asn1parse -inform DER -i -dump
 0:d=0  hl=2 l=  24 cons: SEQUENCE           # RouteOriginAttestation
 2:d=1  hl=2 l=   3 prim:  INTEGER  :010000  #  asID 65536
 7:d=1  hl=2 l=  17 cons:  SEQUENCE          #  ipAddrBlocks
 9:d=2  hl=2 l=  15 cons:   SEQUENCE         #   ROAIPAddressFamily
11:d=3  hl=2 l=   2 prim:    OCTET STRING    #    addressFamily
   0000 - 00 02                              #     IPv6
15:d=3  hl=2 l=   9 cons:    SEQUENCE        #    addresses
17:d=4  hl=2 l=   7 cons:     SEQUENCE       #     ROAIPAddress
19:d=5  hl=2 l=   5 prim:      BIT STRING    #      2001:db8::/32
    0000 - 00 20 01 0d b8

Below is a complete RPKI ROA signed object,

Base64 encoded per [RFC4648]
.

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024
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The object in this appendix has the following properties:

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

Object size: 1668 octets
Object SHA256 message digest:
     3a39e0b652e79ddf6efdd178ad5e3b29e0121b1e593b89f1e0ac18f3ba60d5e7

CMS signing time: Wed 01 May 2024 00:34:13 +0000

X.509 end-entity certificate
Subject key id: DE145B193FB320B25A744355298C8BF7C2523D22
Authority key id: D67208EA470E9D6DD6654022F553ADC1389AB434
Issuer: CN=86525cd5-44d7-4df9-8079-4a9dcdf26944
Serial: 3
Not before: Wed 01 May 2024 00:34:13 +0000
Not after: Thu 01 May 2025 00:34:13 +0000
IP address delegation: 2001:db8::/32

ROA eContent
asID: 65536
addresses: 2001:db8::/32

Acknowledgements

The authors wish to thank
Housley Jeffrey Haas Bob Beck
,
the authors thank
McPherson Sam Weiler Jasdip Singh
helpful comments.

, and

,

,

,

,

Theo Buehler Ties de Kock Martin Hoffmann Charles Gardiner Russ
,
 for their help and contributions. Additionally,

,

,

,

Jim Fenton Vijay Gurbani Haoyu Song Rob Austein Roque Gagliano Danny

,

,

,

, and

Murray S. Kucherawy

 for their careful reviews and

Tom Harrison
,

Authors' Addresses

Job Snijders
Fastly
Amsterdam
The Netherlands
Email:

 job@fastly.com

Ben Maddison
Workonline
Cape Town
South Africa
Email:

 benm@workonline.africa

Matthew Lepinski
Carleton College
Email:

 mlepinski@carleton.edu

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9582

Route Origin Authorization

May 2024

Derrick Kong
Raytheon
Email:

 derrick.kong@raytheon.com

Stephen Kent
Independent
Email:

 kent@alum.mit.edu

Snijders, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

