Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9264
Standards Track
July 2022
2070-1721
E. Wilde
Axway

H. Van de Sompel
Data Archiving and Networked Services

RFC 9264
Linkset: Media Types and a Link Relation Type for
Link Sets

Abstract

This speciﬁcation deﬁnes two formats and associated media types for representing sets of links
as standalone documents. One format is based on JSON, and the other is aligned with the format
for representing links in the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld. This speciﬁcation also introduces a link
relation type to support the discovery of sets of links.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9264

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Use Cases and Motivation

3.1.  Third-Party Links

3.2.  Challenges Writing to the HTTP "Link" Header Field

3.3.  Large Number of Links

4.  Document Formats for Sets of Links

4.1.  HTTP Link Document Format: application/linkset

4.2.  JSON Document Format: application/linkset+json

4.2.1.  Set of Links

4.2.2.  Link Context Object

4.2.3.  Link Target Object

4.2.4.  Link Target Attributes

4.2.5.  JSON Extensibility

5.  The "proﬁle" Parameter for Media Types to Represent Sets of Links

6.  The "linkset" Relation Type for Linking to a Set of Links

7.  Examples

7.1.  Set of Links Provided as "application/linkset"

7.2.  Set of Links Provided as "application/linkset+json"

7.3.  Discovering a Link Set via the "linkset" Link Relation Type

7.4.  Link Set Proﬁles

7.4.1.  Using a "proﬁle" Attribute with a "linkset" Link

7.4.2.  Using a "proﬁle" Parameter with a Link Set Media Type

7.4.3.  Using a Link with a "proﬁle" Link Relation Type

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Link Relation Type: linkset

8.2.  Media Type: application/linkset

8.3.  Media Type: application/linkset+json

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

9.  Security Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  JSON-LD Context

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

Resources on the Web often use typed Web Links
representations -- for example, using the <link> element for HTML documents or (2) conveyed in
the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld for documents of any media type. In some cases, however, providing
links in this manner is impractical or impossible, and delivering a set of links as a standalone
document is preferable.

, either (1) embedded in resource

[RFC8288]

Therefore, this speciﬁcation deﬁnes two formats for representing sets of Web Links and their
attributes as standalone documents. One serializes links in the same format as the format used in
the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld, and the other serializes links in JSON. It also deﬁnes associated
media types to represent sets of links, and the "linkset" relation type to support the discovery of
any resource that conveys a set of links as a standalone document.

2.  Terminology

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

This speciﬁcation uses the terms "link context" and "link target" in the same manner that
Linking" [RFC8288]

 uses them.

"Web

In the examples provided in this document, links in the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld are shown on
separate lines in order to improve readability. Note, however, that as per
Semantics" [RFC9110]
tabs are supported as separators.

, line breaks are deprecated in values for HTTP ﬁelds; only whitespaces and

Section 5.5 of "HTTP

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

3.  Use Cases and Motivation

The following sections describe use cases in which providing links by means of a standalone
document instead of in an HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld or as links embedded in the resource
representation is advantageous or necessary.

For all scenarios, links could be provided by means of a standalone document that is formatted
according to the JSON-based serialization, the serialization aligned with the HTTP "Link" ﬁeld
format, or both. The former serialization is motivated by the widespread use of JSON and related
tools, which suggests that handling sets of links expressed as JSON documents should be attractive
to developers. The latter serialization is provided for compatibility with the existing serialization
used in the HTTP "Link" ﬁeld and to allow the reuse of tools created to handle it.

It is important to keep in mind that when providing links by means of a standalone
representation, other links can still be provided using other approaches, i.e., it is possible to
combine various mechanisms to convey links.

3.1.  Third-Party Links

In some cases, it is useful that links pertaining to a resource are provided by a server other than
the one that hosts the resource. For example, this allows:

•

Providing links in which the resource is involved not just as a link context but also as a link
target, with a diﬀerent resource being the link context.

•

Providing links pertaining to the resource that the server hosting that resource is not aware
of.

•

External management of links pertaining to the resource in a special-purpose link
management service.

In such cases, links pertaining to a resource can be provided by another, speciﬁc resource. That
speciﬁc resource may be managed, by the same custodian or by another custodian, as the
resource to which the links pertain. For clients intent on consuming links provided in that
manner, it would be beneﬁcial if the following conditions were met:

•

Links are provided in a document that uses a well-deﬁned media type.

•

The resource to which the provided links pertain is able to link to the resource that provides
these links using a well-known link relation type.

These requirements are addressed in this speciﬁcation through the deﬁnition of two media types
and a link relation type, respectively.

3.2.  Challenges Writing to the HTTP "Link" Header Field

In some cases, it is not straightforward to write links to the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld from an
application. This can, for example, be the case because not all required link information is
available to the application or because the application does not have the capability to directly

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

write HTTP ﬁelds. In such cases, providing links by means of a standalone document can be a
solution. Making the resource that provides these links discoverable can be achieved by means of
a typed link.

3.3.  Large Number of Links

When conveying links in an HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld, it is possible for the size of the HTTP
response ﬁelds to become unpredictable. This can be the case when links are determined
dynamically in a manner dependent on a range of contextual factors. It is possible to statically
conﬁgure a web server to correctly handle large HTTP response ﬁelds by specifying an upper
bound for their size. But when the number of links is unpredictable, estimating a reliable upper
bound is challenging.

 deﬁnes error codes related to excess communication
Section 15 of "HTTP Semantics" [RFC9110]
by the user agent ("413 Content Too Large" and "414 URI Too Long"), but no speciﬁc error codes
are deﬁned to indicate that response ﬁeld content exceeds the upper bound that can be handled
by the server and thus has been truncated. As a result, applications take countermeasures aimed
at controlling the size of the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld -- for example, by limiting the links they
provide to those with select relation types, thereby limiting the value of the HTTP "Link" header
ﬁeld to clients. Providing links by means of a standalone document overcomes challenges related
to the unpredictable (to the web server implementation) nature of the size of HTTP "Link" header
ﬁelds.

4.  Document Formats for Sets of Links

This section speciﬁes two document formats to convey a set of links. Both are based on the
Section 2 of "Web Linking" [RFC8288]
abstract model speciﬁed in
consisting of a "link context", a "link relation type", a "link target", and optional "target
attributes":

, which deﬁnes a link as

•

The format deﬁned in Section 4.1 is nearly identical to the ﬁeld value of the HTTP "Link"
header ﬁeld as speciﬁed in

Section 3 of [RFC8288]

.

•

The format deﬁned in Section 4.2 is expressed in

JSON [RFC8259]

.

Links provided in the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld are intended to be used in the context of an HTTP
interaction, and contextual information that is available during an interaction is used to
correctly interpret them. Links provided in link sets, however, can be reused outside of an HTTP
interaction, when no such contextual information is available. As a result, implementers of link
sets should strive to make them self-contained by adhering to the following recommendations.

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

For links provided in the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld that have no anchor or that use relative
references, the URI of the resource that delivers the links provides the contextual information
that is needed for their correct interpretation. In order to support use cases where link set
documents are reused outside the context of an HTTP interaction, it is
them self-contained by adhering to the following guidelines:

RECOMMENDED

 to make

•

For every link provided in the set of links, explicitly provide the link context using the
"anchor" attribute.

•

For the link context ("anchor" attribute) and link target ("href" attribute), use URI references
that are not relative references (as deﬁned in

Section 4.1 of [RFC3986]

).

If these recommendations are not followed, the interpretation of links in link set documents will
depend on which URI is used as the context.

For a "title" attribute provided on a link in the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld, the language in which the
title is expressed is provided by the "Content-Language" header ﬁeld of the HTTP interaction with
the resource that delivers the links. This does not apply to "title" attributes provided for links in
link set documents because that would constrain all links in a link set to having a single title
language and would not support determining title languages when a link set is used outside of an
HTTP interaction. In order to support use cases where link set documents are reused outside the
context of an HTTP interaction, it is
"title*" attribute instead of the "title" attribute because "title*" allows expressing the title language
as part of its value by means of a language tag. Note that, in this regard, language tags are
). If this recommendation is not
matched case insensitively (see
Section 2.1.1 of [RFC5646]
followed, accurately determining the language of titles provided on links in link set documents
will not be possible.

 to make them self-contained by using the

RECOMMENDED

Section 3.3 of [RFC8288]

 as a means to express links with a directionality that is the inverse of direct links that

Note also that
[RFC5988]
use the "rel" construct. In both serializations for link sets deﬁned here, inverse links may be
represented as direct links using the "rel" construct and by switching the roles of the resources
involved in the link.

 deprecates the "rev" construct that was provided by

4.1.  HTTP Link Document Format: application/linkset

Section 3 of [RFC8288]

, more speciﬁcally by its ABNF

This document format is nearly identical to the ﬁeld value of the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld as
deﬁned in
 production rule for
"Link" and its subsequent rules. It diﬀers from the format for ﬁeld values of the HTTP "Link"
header ﬁeld only in that not only spaces and horizontal tabs are allowed as separators but also
newline characters as a means to improve readability for humans. The use of non-ASCII
characters in the ﬁeld value of the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld is not allowed and as such is also not
allowed in "application/linkset" link sets.

[RFC5234]

The assigned media type for this format is "application/linkset".

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

When converting an "application/linkset" document to a ﬁeld value for the HTTP "Link" header
ﬁeld, newline characters
 be replaced by whitespace (SP) in order to
comply with

Section 5.5 of [RFC9110]

 be removed or

MUST

MUST

.

Implementers of "application/linkset" link sets should strive to make them self-contained by
following the recommendations provided in Section 4 regarding their use outside the context of
an HTTP interaction.

It should be noted that the "application/linkset" format speciﬁed here is diﬀerent from the
"application/link-format" format speciﬁed in
value of the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld as deﬁned in
introduces constraints on that deﬁnition to meet requirements for Constrained RESTful
Environments (CoRE).

Section 3 of [RFC8288]

[RFC6690]

, whereas the latter

 in that the former fully matches the ﬁeld

4.2.  JSON Document Format: application/linkset+json

[RFC8259]
This document format uses JSON
links follows the abstract model deﬁned by

 as the syntax to represent a set of links. The set of
Section 2 of [RFC8288]

.

The assigned media type for this format is "application/linkset+json".

In the interests of interoperability, "application/linkset+json" link sets
UTF-8 as per

Section 8.1 of [RFC8259]

.

MUST

 be encoded using

Implementers of "application/linkset+json" link sets should strive to make them self-contained by
following the recommendations provided in Section 4 regarding their use outside the context of
an HTTP interaction.

The "application/linkset+json" serialization allows for
serialization. This can be achieved by adding an appropriate context to the "application/
linkset+json" serialization using the approach described in
Communities of practice can decide which context best meets their application needs. Appendix
A shows an example of a possible context that, when added to a JSON serialization, allows it to be
interpreted as Resource Description Framework (RDF) data

Section 6.1 of [W3C.REC-json-ld]

[W3C.REC-rdf11-concepts]

 support of a JSON-LD

OPTIONAL

.

.

4.2.1.  Set of Links

In the JSON representation of a set of links:

•

A set of links is represented in JSON as an object that
member.

MUST

 contain "linkset" as its sole

•

The value of the "linkset" member is an array in which a distinct JSON object -- the "link
context object" (see Section 4.2.2) -- is used to represent links that have the same link context.

•

Even if there is only one link context object, it

MUST

 be wrapped in an array.

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

4.2.2.  Link Context Object

In the JSON representation, one or more links that have the same link context are represented by
a JSON object -- the link context object. A link context object adheres to the following rules:

•

Each link context object
link context. If present, this value
reference as deﬁned in

MAY

Section 4.1 of [RFC3986]

.

 contain an "anchor" member with a value that represents the

MUST

 be a URI reference and

SHOULD NOT

 be a relative

•

For each distinct relation type that the link context has with link targets, a link context object
 contain an additional member. The value of this member is an array in which a distinct
MUST
JSON object -- the "link target object" (see Section 4.2.3) --
 be used for each link target for
which the relationship with the link context (value of the encompassing "anchor" member)
applies. The name of this member expresses the relation type of the link as follows:
◦

), the name of this member is the

Section 2.1.1 of [RFC8288]

MUST

For registered relation types (
registered name of the relation type.

◦

For extension relation types (
URI that uniquely represents the relation type.

Section 2.1.2 of [RFC8288]

), the name of this member is the

•

Even if there is only one link target object, it

MUST

 be wrapped in an array.

4.2.3.  Link Target Object

In the JSON representation, a link target is represented by a JSON object -- the link target object. A
link target object adheres to the following rules:

•

Section 4.1 of [RFC3986]

MUST
 be a URI reference and

 contain an "href" member with a value that represents the link

Each link target object
target. This value
MUST
in
for it (i.e., the resource providing the set of links is the target of the link in the link target
object)
("href": "").

 be a relative reference as deﬁned
. Cases where the "href" member is present but no value is provided

 be handled by providing an "href" member with an empty string as its value

SHOULD NOT

MUST

•

In many cases, a link target is further qualiﬁed by target attributes. Various types of attributes
exist, and they are conveyed as additional members of the link target object as detailed in
Section 4.2.4.

The following example of a JSON-serialized set of links represents one link with its core
components: link context, link relation type, and link target.

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

{ "linkset":
  [
    { "anchor": "https://example.net/bar",
      "next": [
        {"href": "https://example.com/foo"}
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 1: Simple linkset example

The following example of a JSON-serialized set of links represents two links that share a link
context and relation type but have diﬀerent link targets.

{ "linkset":
  [
    { "anchor": "https://example.net/bar",
      "item": [
        {"href": "https://example.com/foo1"},
        {"href": "https://example.com/foo2"}
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 2: Linkset with two links with the same context

The following example shows a set of links that represents two links, each with a diﬀerent link
context, link target, and relation type. One relation type is registered, and the other is an
extension relation type.

{ "linkset":
  [
    { "anchor": "https://example.net/bar",
      "next": [
        {"href": "https://example.com/foo1"}
      ]
    },
    { "anchor": "https://example.net/boo",
      "https://example.com/relations/baz" : [
        {"href": "https://example.com/foo2"}
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 3: Linkset with two links with diﬀerent contexts

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

4.2.4.  Link Target Attributes

A link may be further qualiﬁed by target attributes as deﬁned by
types of attributes exist:

Section 2 of [RFC8288]

. Three

•

Serialization-deﬁned attributes as described in

Section 3.4.1 of [RFC8288]

.

•

Extension attributes deﬁned and used by communities as allowed by
[RFC8288]

.

Section 3.4.2 of

•

Internationalized versions of the "title" attribute as deﬁned by
attributes allowed by

Section 3.4 of [RFC8288]

.

[RFC8288]

 and of extension

The handling of these diﬀerent types of attributes is described in the sections below.

4.2.4.1.  Target Attributes Deﬁned by Web Linking

 deﬁnes the following target attributes that may be used to annotate

Section 3.4.1 of [RFC8288]
links: "hreﬂang", "media", "title", "title*", and "type"; these target attributes follow diﬀerent
occurrence and value patterns. In the JSON representation, these attributes
additional members of the link target object as follows:

MUST

 be conveyed as

The "hreﬂang" target attribute, deﬁned as optional and repeatable by

"hreﬂang":
 be represented by an "hreﬂang" member, its value
MUST
only one value to be represented), and each value in that array
representing one value of the "hreﬂang" target attribute for a link -- that follows the same
.
model as the syntax discussed in

[RFC8288]
,
 be an array (even if there is
 be a string --

[RFC8288]

MUST

MUST

"media":
MUST
string that follows the same model as the syntax discussed in

The "media" target attribute, deﬁned as optional and not repeatable by
 be represented by a "media" member in the link target object, and its value

[RFC8288]

.

[RFC8288]
MUST

,
 be a

"title":

The "title" target attribute, deﬁned as optional and not repeatable by

represented by a "title" member in the link target object, and its value

MUST

[RFC8288] MUST

 be
,
 be a JSON string.

"title*":

The "title*" target attribute, deﬁned as optional and not repeatable by

, is
motivated by character encoding and language issues and follows the model deﬁned in
. The details of the JSON representation that applies to "title*" are described in
[RFC8187]
Section 4.2.4.2.

[RFC8288]

"type":

The "type" target attribute, deﬁned as optional and not repeatable by
MUST

represented by a "type" member in the link target object, and its value
follows the same model as the syntax discussed in

[RFC8288]

.

[RFC8288] MUST
 be a string that

,

 be

The following example illustrates how the "hreﬂang" (repeatable) target attribute and the "type"
(not repeatable) target attribute are represented in a link target object.

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

{ "linkset":
  [
    { "anchor": "https://example.net/bar",
      "next": [
        { "href":     "https://example.com/foo",
          "type":     "text/html",
          "hreflang": [ "en" , "de" ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 4: Linkset with "hreﬂang" and "type" target attributes

4.2.4.2.  Internationalized Target Attributes

In addition to the target attributes described in Section 4.2.4.1,
[RFC8187]
supports attributes that follow the content model of
attributes are recognizable by the use of a trailing asterisk in the attribute name, such as "title*".
The content model of
 uses a string-based microsyntax that represents the character
encoding, an optional language tag, and the escaped attribute value encoded according to the
speciﬁed character encoding.

Section 3.4 of [RFC8288]
. In

, these target

[RFC8288]

[RFC8187]

 also

The JSON serialization for these target attributes

MUST

 be as follows:

•

An internationalized target attribute is represented as a member of the link context object
with the same name (including the "*") as the attribute.

•

The character encoding information as prescribed by
content of the internationalized attribute is represented as a JSON string.

[RFC8187]

 is not preserved; instead, the

•

The value of the internationalized target attribute is an array that contains one or more JSON
objects. The name of one member of such JSON objects is "value", and its value is the actual
content (in its unescaped version) of the internationalized target attribute, i.e., the value of
the attribute from which the encoding and language information are removed. The name of
another, optional member of such JSON objects is "language", and its value is the language tag
[RFC5646]

 for the language in which the attribute content is conveyed.

The following example illustrates how the "title*" target attribute as deﬁned by
[RFC8288]

 is represented in a link target object.

Section 3.4.1 of

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

{ "linkset":
  [
    { "anchor": "https://example.net/bar",
      "next": [
        { "href":     "https://example.com/foo",
          "type":     "text/html",
          "hreflang": [ "en" , "de" ],
          "title":    "Next chapter",
          "title*":   [ { "value": "nächstes Kapitel" ,
                          "language" : "de" } ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 5: Linkset with "title" and "title*" target attributes

The above example assumes that the German title contains an umlaut character (in the original
syntax, it would be encoded as title*=UTF-8'de'n%c3%a4chstes%20Kapitel), which gets encoded in
its unescaped form in the JSON representation. Implementations
internationalized target attributes that follow the model of
the "application/linkset" format and the "application/linkset+json" format.

 properly decode/encode
 when transcoding between

[RFC8187]

MUST

4.2.4.3.  Extension Target Attributes

Extension target attributes (e.g., as listed in Section 4.2.4.1) are attributes that are not deﬁned by
Section 3.4.1 of [RFC8288]
 but are nevertheless used to qualify links. They can be deﬁned by
communities in any way deemed necessary, and it is up to them to make sure their usage is
understood by target applications. However, lacking standardization, there is no interoperable
understanding of these extension attributes. One important consequence is that their cardinality
is unknown to generic applications. Therefore, in the JSON serialization, all extension target
attributes are treated as repeatable.

The JSON serialization for these target attributes

MUST

 be as follows:

•

An extension target attribute is represented as a member of the link target object with the
same name as the attribute, including the "*" if applicable.

•

The value of an extension attribute
value to be represented.

MUST

 be represented by an array, even if there is only one

•

If the extension target attribute does not have a name with a trailing asterisk, then each
value in that array

 be a JSON string that represents one value of the attribute.

MUST

•

If the extension attribute has a name with a trailing asterisk (it follows the content model of
[RFC8187]
 be a JSON object. The value of each such JSON
object

 be structured as described in Section 4.2.4.2.

), then each value in that array

MUST

MUST

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

The following example shows a link target object with three extension target attributes. The value
for each extension target attribute is an array. The ﬁrst two are regular extension target
attributes, with the ﬁrst one ("foo") having only one value and the second one ("bar") having two.
The last extension target attribute ("baz*") follows the naming rule of
 and therefore is
encoded according to the serialization described in Section 4.2.4.2.

[RFC8187]

{ "linkset":
  [
    { "anchor": "https://example.net/bar",
      "next": [
        { "href": "https://example.com/foo",
          "type": "text/html",
          "foo":  [ "foovalue" ],
          "bar":  [ "barone", "bartwo" ],
          "baz*": [ { "value": "bazvalue" ,
                      "language" : "en" } ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 6: Linkset with extension target attributes

4.2.5.  JSON Extensibility

[RFC8288]
The Web Linking model
in Section 4.2.4.3. The use of other forms of extensions is
. Limiting the JSON
format in this way allows unambiguous round trips between links provided in the HTTP "Link"
header ﬁeld, sets of links serialized according to the "application/linkset" format, and sets of links
serialized according to the "application/linkset+json" format.

 provides for the use of extension target attributes as discussed
NOT RECOMMENDED

Cases may exist in which the use of extensions other than those discussed in Section 4.2.4.3 may be
useful -- for example, when a link set publisher needs to include descriptive or technical metadata
for internal consumption. If such extensions are used, they
the JSON members deﬁned in this speciﬁcation. Agents that consume JSON linkset documents can
safely ignore such extensions.

 change the semantics of

MUST NOT

5.  The "proﬁle" Parameter for Media Types to Represent Sets
of Links

As a means to convey speciﬁc constraints or conventions (as per
set document, the "proﬁle" parameter
"application/linkset" and "application/linkset+json" as detailed in Sections 4.1 and 4.2,
respectively. For example, the parameter could be used to indicate that a link set uses a speciﬁc,
limited set of link relation types.

 be used in conjunction with the media types

) that apply to a link

[RFC6906]

MAY

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

 be a non-empty list of space-separated URIs, each of
The value of the "proﬁle" parameter
which identiﬁes speciﬁc constraints or conventions that apply to the link set document. When
providing multiple proﬁle URIs, care should be taken that the corresponding proﬁles are not
conﬂicting. Proﬁle URIs
 be registered in the IANA's "Proﬁle URIs" registry in the manner
speciﬁed by

[RFC7284]

MUST

MAY

.

The presence of a "proﬁle" parameter in conjunction with the "application/linkset" and
"application/linkset+json" media types does not change the semantics of a link set. As such, clients
with and without knowledge of proﬁle URIs can use the same representation.

Section 7.4.2 shows an example of using the "proﬁle" parameter in conjunction with the
"application/linkset+json" media type.

6.  The "linkset" Relation Type for Linking to a Set of Links

The target of a link with the "linkset" relation type provides a set of links, including links in which
the resource that is the link context participates.

A link with the "linkset" relation type
resource's representation. It may also be discovered by other means, such as through client-side
information.

 be provided in the header ﬁeld and/or the body of a

MAY

MAY

 provide more than one link with a "linkset" relation type. Multiple such links can

A resource
refer to the same set of links expressed using diﬀerent media types, or to diﬀerent sets of links,
potentially provided by diﬀerent third-party services.

The set of links provided by the resource that is the target of a "linkset" link may contain links in
which the resource that is the context of the "linkset" link does not participate. User agents
MUST
process each link in the link set independently, including processing of the link context and link
target, and
participate.

 ignore links from the link set in which the context of the "linkset" link does not

MAY

A user agent that follows a "linkset" link and obtains links for which anchors and targets are
expressed as relative references (as per
context is for these links; it
that determination.

)
 ignore links for which it is unable to unambiguously make

Section 4.1 of [RFC3986] MUST

 determine what the

SHOULD

MAY

[RFC6906]

 be used in conjunction with the "linkset" link relation

As a means to convey speciﬁc constraints or conventions (as per
set document, the "proﬁle" attribute
type. For example, the attribute could be used to indicate that a link set uses a speciﬁc, limited set
of link relation types. The value of the "proﬁle" attribute
separated URIs, each of which identiﬁes speciﬁc constraints or conventions that apply to the link
 be registered in the IANA's "Proﬁle URIs" registry in the manner
set document. Proﬁle URIs
speciﬁed by
. Section 7.4.1 shows an example of using the "proﬁle" attribute on a link
with the "linkset" relation type, making both the link set and the proﬁle(s) to which it complies
discoverable.

 be a non-empty list of space-

) that apply to a link

[RFC7284]

MUST

MAY

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

7.  Examples

Sections 7.1 and 7.2 show examples whereby a set of links is provided as "application/linkset" and
"application/linkset+json" documents, respectively. Section 7.3 illustrates the use of the "linkset"
link relation type to support the discovery of sets of links, and Section 7.4 shows how to convey
proﬁle information pertaining to a link set.

7.1.  Set of Links Provided as "application/linkset"

Figure 7 shows a client issuing an HTTP GET request against resource <https://example.org/links/
resource1>.

GET /links/resource1 HTTP/1.1
Host: example.org

Figure 7: Client HTTP GET request

Figure 8 shows the response to the GET request of Figure 7. The response contains a "Content-
Type" header ﬁeld specifying that the media type of the response is "application/linkset". A set of
links, revealing authorship and versioning related to resource <https://example.org/resource1>, is
provided in the response body. The HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld indicates the availability of an
alternate representation of the set of links using media type "application/linkset+json".

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2019 10:35:51 GMT
Server: Apache-Coyote/1.1
Content-Length: 1023
Content-Type: application/linkset
Link: <https://example.org/links/resource1>
      ; rel="alternate"
      ; type="application/linkset+json"

<https://authors.example.net/johndoe>
   ; rel="author"
   ; type="application/rdf+xml"
   ; anchor="https://example.org/resource1",
<https://example.org/resource1?version=3>
   ; rel="latest-version"
   ; type="text/html"
   ; anchor="https://example.org/resource1",
<https://example.org/resource1?version=2>
   ; rel="predecessor-version"
   ; type="text/html"
   ; anchor="https://example.org/resource1?version=3",
<https://example.org/resource1?version=1>
   ; rel="predecessor-version"
   ; type="text/html"
   ; anchor="https://example.org/resource1?version=2",
<https://example.org/resource1?version=1>
   ; rel="memento"
   ; type="text/html"
   ; datetime="Thu, 13 Jun 2019 09:34:33 GMT"
   ; anchor="https://example.org/resource1",
<https://example.org/resource1?version=2>
   ; rel="memento"
   ; type="text/html"
   ; datetime="Sun, 21 Jul 2019 12:22:04 GMT"
   ; anchor="https://example.org/resource1",
<https://authors.example.net/alice>
   ; rel="author"
   ; anchor="https://example.org/resource1#comment=1"

Figure 8: Response to HTTP GET includes a set of links

7.2.  Set of Links Provided as "application/linkset+json"

Figure 9 shows the client issuing an HTTP GET request against <https://example.org/links/
resource1>. In the request, the client uses an "Accept" header ﬁeld to indicate that it prefers a
response in the "application/linkset+json" format.

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

GET links/resource1 HTTP/1.1
Host: example.org
Accept: application/linkset+json

Figure 9: Client HTTP GET request expressing preference for an "application/linkset+json" response

Figure 10 shows the response to the HTTP GET request of Figure 9. The set of links is serialized
according to the media type "application/linkset+json".

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2019 10:46:22 GMT
Server: Apache-Coyote/1.1
Content-Type: application/linkset+json
Link: <https://example.org/links/resource1>
      ; rel="alternate"
      ; type="application/linkset"
Content-Length: 1246

{ "linkset":
  [
    { "anchor": "https://example.org/resource1",
      "author": [
        { "href": "https://authors.example.net/johndoe",
          "type": "application/rdf+xml"
        }
      ],
      "memento": [
        { "href": "https://example.org/resource1?version=1",
          "type": "text/html",
          "datetime": "Thu, 13 Jun 2019 09:34:33 GMT"
        },
        { "href": "https://example.org/resource1?version=2",
          "type": "text/html",
          "datetime": "Sun, 21 Jul 2019 12:22:04 GMT"
        }
      ],
      "latest-version": [
        { "href": "https://example.org/resource1?version=3",
          "type": "text/html"
        }
      ]
    },
    { "anchor": "https://example.org/resource1?version=3",
      "predecessor-version": [
        { "href": "https://example.org/resource1?version=2",
          "type": "text/html"
        }
      ]
    },
    { "anchor": "https://example.org/resource1?version=2",
      "predecessor-version": [
        { "href": "https://example.org/resource1?version=1",
          "type": "text/html"
        }
      ]
    },
    { "anchor": "https://example.org/resource1#comment=1",
      "author": [
        { "href": "https://authors.example.net/alice"}
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 10: Response to the client's request for the linkset

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

7.3.  Discovering a Link Set via the "linkset" Link Relation Type

Figure 11 shows a client issuing an HTTP HEAD request against resource <https://example.org/
resource1>.

HEAD resource1 HTTP/1.1
Host: example.org

Figure 11: Client HTTP HEAD request

Figure 12 shows the response to the HEAD request of Figure 11. The response contains an HTTP
"Link" header ﬁeld with a link that has the "linkset" relation type. It indicates that a set of links is
provided by resource <https://example.org/links/resource1>, which provides a representation with
media type "application/linkset+json".

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2019 10:45:54 GMT
Server: Apache-Coyote/1.1
Link: <https://example.org/links/resource1>
      ; rel="linkset"
      ; type="application/linkset+json"
Content-Length: 236
Content-Type: text/html;charset=utf-8

Figure 12: Response to HTTP HEAD request

7.4.  Link Set Proﬁles

The examples in this section illustrate the use of the "proﬁle" attribute for a link with the "linkset"
link relation type and the "proﬁle" attribute for a link set media type. The examples are inspired
by the implementation of link sets by GS1 (the standards body behind many of the world's
barcodes).

7.4.1.  Using a "proﬁle" Attribute with a "linkset" Link

Figure 13 shows a client issuing an HTTP HEAD request against trade item 09506000134352 at
<https://id.gs1.org/01/9506000134352>
.

HEAD /01/9506000134352 HTTP/1.1
Host: id.gs1.org

Figure 13: Client HTTP HEAD request

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

<https://www.gs1.org/voc/?show=linktypes>

Figure 14 shows the server's response to the request of Figure 13, including a "linkset" link with a
"proﬁle" attribute that has the proﬁle URI
 as its value.
Dereferencing that URI yields a proﬁle document that lists all the link relation types that a client
can expect when requesting the link set made discoverable by the "linkset" link. The link relation
types are presented in abbreviated form, e.g., <gs1:activityIdeas>, whereas the actual link relation
type URIs are available as hyperlinks on the abbreviations, e.g.,
activityIdeas>
web.archive.org/web/20210927160406/https://www.gs1.org/voc/?show=linktypes>
2021.

. For posterity, that proﬁle document was saved in the Internet Archive at

<https://www.gs1.org/voc/

 on 27 September

<https://

HTTP/1.1 307 Temporary Redirect
Date:  Mon, 27 Sep 2021 16:03:07 GMT
Server: nginx
Link: <https://id.gs1.org/01/9506000134352?linkType=all>
      ; rel="linkset"
      ; type="application/linkset+json"
      ; profile="https://www.gs1.org/voc/?show=linktypes"
Location: https://example.com/risotto-rice-with-mushrooms/

Figure 14: Response to the client's HEAD request, including a "proﬁle" attribute for the "linkset" link

7.4.2.  Using a "proﬁle" Parameter with a Link Set Media Type

Figure 15 shows a client issuing an HTTP HEAD request against the link set
01/9506000134352?linkType=all>
Section 7.4.1.

<https://id.gs1.org/
 that was discovered through the HTTP interactions shown in

HEAD /01/9506000134352?linkType=all HTTP/1.1
Host: id.gs1.org

Figure 15: Client HTTP HEAD request

Figure 16 shows the server's response to the request of Figure 15. Note the "proﬁle" parameter for
the "application/linkset+json" media type, which has as its value the same proﬁle URI
www.gs1.org/voc/?show=linktypes>

 as was used in Figure 14.

<https://

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date:  Mon, 27 Sep 2021 16:03:33 GMT
Server: nginx
Content-Type: application/linkset+json;
     profile="https://www.gs1.org/voc/?show=linktypes"
Content-Length: 396

Figure 16: Response to the client's HEAD request, including a "proﬁle" parameter for the
"application/linkset+json" media type

7.4.3.  Using a Link with a "proﬁle" Link Relation Type

Note that the response shown in Figure 16 from the link set resource is equivalent to the response
shown in Figure 17, which leverages the "proﬁle" link relation type deﬁned in

[RFC6906]

.

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date:  Mon, 27 Sep 2021 16:03:33 GMT
Server: nginx
Content-Type: application/linkset+json
Link: <https://www.gs1.org/voc/?show=linktypes>; rel="profile"
Content-Length: 396

Figure 17: Response to the client's HEAD request, including a "proﬁle" link

A link with a "proﬁle" link relation type as shown in Figure 17 can also be conveyed in the link set
document itself. This is illustrated by Figure 18. Following the recommendation that all links in a
link set document should have an explicit anchor, such a link has the URI of the link set itself as
the anchor and the proﬁle URI as the target. Multiple proﬁle URIs are handled by using multiple
"href" members.

{ "linkset":
  [
    { "anchor": "https://id.gs1.org/01/9506000134352?linkType=all",
      "profile": [
            {"href": "https://www.gs1.org/voc/?show=linktypes"}
      ]
    },
     { "anchor": "https://id.gs1.org/01/9506000134352",
       "https://gs1.org/voc/whatsInTheBox": [
         {"href": "https://example.com/en/packContents/GB"}
       ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 18: A linkset that declares the proﬁle it complies with, using a "proﬁle" link

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  Link Relation Type: linkset

The link relation type below has been registered by IANA in the "Link Relation Types" registry as
per

Section 4.2 of [RFC8288]

:

Relation Name:

linkset

Description:

The link target of a link with the "linkset" relation type provides a set of links,

including links in which the link context of the link participates.

Reference:

RFC 9264

8.2.  Media Type: application/linkset

The Internet media type "application/linkset" for a linkset encoded as described in Section 4.1 has
been registered by IANA in the "Media Types" registry as per

[RFC6838]

.

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

linkset

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

proﬁle

Encoding considerations:

Linksets are encoded according to the deﬁnitions provided in
 is based on the general encoding rules

[RFC8288]
speciﬁed by HTTP
of character encoding and language as deﬁned by

. The encoding discussed in
[RFC9110]

[RFC8288]

 and allows speciﬁc parameters to be extended by the indication
.

[RFC8187]

Security considerations:

The security considerations of RFC 9264 apply.

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published speciﬁcation:

RFC 9264

Applications that use this media type:

This media type is not speciﬁc to any application, as it can

be used by any application that wants to interchange Web Links.

Additional information:
Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh ﬁle type code(s):

TEXT

N/A
This media type does not propose a speciﬁc extension.

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Erik Wilde <erik.wilde@dret.net>

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

none

Author:

Erik Wilde <erik.wilde@dret.net>

Change controller:

IETF

8.3.  Media Type: application/linkset+json

The Internet media type "application/linkset+json" for a linkset encoded as described in Section
4.2 has been registered by IANA in the "Media Types" registry as per

[RFC6838]

.

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

linkset+json

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

proﬁle

Encoding considerations:

The encoding considerations of

[RFC8259]

 apply.

Security considerations:

The security considerations of RFC 9264 apply.

Interoperability considerations:

The interoperability considerations of

[RFC8259]

 apply.

Published speciﬁcation:

RFC 9264

Applications that use this media type:

This media type is not speciﬁc to any application, as it can

be used by any application that wants to interchange Web Links.

Additional information:
Magic number(s):
File extension(s):

N/A
JSON documents often use ".json" as the ﬁle extension, and this media type

does not propose a speciﬁc extension other than this generic one.

Macintosh ﬁle type code(s):

TEXT

Person & email address to contact for further information:

Erik Wilde <erik.wilde@dret.net>

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

none

Author:

Erik Wilde <erik.wilde@dret.net>

Change controller:

IETF

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

9.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of
[RFC8288]
HTTP header ﬁelds.

 as long as the latter are not speciﬁcally discussing the risks of exposing information in

Section 7 of [RFC3986]

 apply, as well as those of Web Linking

In general, links may cause information leakage when they expose information (such as URIs)
that can be sensitive or private. Links may expose "hidden URIs" that are not supposed to be
openly shared and that may not be suﬃciently protected. Ideally, none of the URIs exposed in
links should be supposed to be "hidden"; instead, if these URIs are supposed to be limited to certain
users, then technical measures should be put in place so that accidentally exposing them does not
cause any harm.

For the speciﬁc mechanisms deﬁned in this speciﬁcation, two security considerations should be
taken into account:

•

The Web Linking model always has an "implicit context", which is the resource of the HTTP
interaction. This original context can be lost or can change when self-contained link
representations are moved. Changing the context can change the interpretation of links
when they have no explicit anchor or when they use relative URIs. Applications may choose
to ignore links that have no explicit anchor or that use relative URIs when these are
exchanged in standalone resources.

•

The model introduced in this speciﬁcation supports "third-party links", where one party can
provide links that have another party's resource as an anchor. Depending on the link
semantics and the application context, it is important to verify that there is suﬃcient trust in
that third party to allow it to provide these links. Applications may choose to treat third-party
links diﬀerently than cases where a resource and the links for that resource are provided by
the same party.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

[RFC5234]

,

,
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
,
,
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):
<https://

, January 2005,

,

,

Crocker, D., Ed.
,
STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
.
editor.org/info/rfc5234>

 and
,

,

,
P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Speciﬁcations: ABNF"

, January 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

[RFC5646]

[RFC6838]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8187]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8288]

[RFC9110]

 and

Phillips, A., Ed.
5646 DOI 10.17487/RFC5646
,
rfc5646>
.

M. Davis, Ed. "Tags for Identifying Languages" BCP 47 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2009,

,

,

,

Freed, N. Klensin, J.
,
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

,

,

T. Hansen "Media Type Speciﬁcations and Registration

, January 2013,

<https://

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

Reschke, J. "Indicating Character Encoding and Language for HTTP Header Field
,
Parameters" RFC 8187 DOI 10.17487/RFC8187
<https://www.rfc-
.
editor.org/info/rfc8187>

, September 2017,

,

,

,
Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
.
editor.org/info/rfc8259>

<https://www.rfc-

, December 2017,

,

,

,
,
Nottingham, M. "Web Linking" RFC 8288 DOI 10.17487/RFC8288
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8288>

,

, October 2017,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
.
rfc9110>

,

,

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

[W3C.REC-json-ld]

,
Sporny, M., Ed. Kellogg, G., Ed.

M. Lanthaler, Ed. "JSON-LD 1.1: A JSON-

,

based Serialization for Linked Data" W3C Recommendation REC-json-
ld-20140116

.
<https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld/>

, July 2020,

, and
,

10.2.  Informative References

[DCMI-TERMS]

[RFC5988]

[RFC6690]

[RFC6906]

[RFC7284]

Dublin Core Metadata Initiative "DCMI Metadata Terms"

,
<https://www.dublincore.org/speciﬁcations/dublin-core/dcmi-terms/>
.

, January 2020,

,
,
Nottingham, M. "Web Linking" RFC 5988 DOI 10.17487/RFC5988
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5988>

,

, October 2010,

,
Shelby, Z. "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Link Format" RFC 6690
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6690>
DOI 10.17487/RFC6690

, August 2012,

,

,

,

,
Wilde, E. "The 'proﬁle' Link Relation Type" RFC 6906 DOI 10.17487/RFC6906
March 2013,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6906>

,

Lanthaler, M. "The Proﬁle URI Registry" RFC 7284 DOI 10.17487/RFC7284
2014,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7284>

,

,

,

, June

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

[W3C.REC-rdf11-concepts]

Cyganiak, R., Ed. Wood, D., Ed.

,

, and

M. Lanthaler, Ed. "RDF 1.1

,

Concepts and Abstract Syntax" W3C Consortium Recommendation REC-rdf11-
concepts

<https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf11-concepts/>
.

, February 2014,

,

Appendix A.  JSON-LD Context

A set of links rendered according to the JSON serialization deﬁned in Section 4.2 can be
interpreted as RDF triples by adding a
keys to corresponding Linked Data terms. And, as per
delivering a link set that is rendered according to the "application/linkset+json" media type to a
user agent, a server can convey the availability of such a JSON-LD context by using a link with the
relation type "

http://www.w3.org/ns/json-ld#context

JSON-LD context [W3C.REC-json-ld]

" in the HTTP "Link" header ﬁeld.

Section 6.1 of [W3C.REC-json-ld]

 that maps the JSON

, when

Figure 19 shows the response to an HTTP GET against the URI of a link set resource and illustrates
this approach to support the discovery of a JSON-LD context. This example is inspired by the GS1
implementation and shows a link set that uses relation types from the GS1 vocabulary at
www.gs1.org/voc/>

 that are expressed as HTTP URIs.

<https://

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 11 Oct 2021 10:48:22 GMT
Server: Apache-Coyote/1.1
Content-Type: application/linkset+json
Link: <https://example.org/contexts/linkset.jsonld>
      ; rel="http://www.w3.org/ns/json-ld#context"
      ; type="application/ld+json"
Content-Length: 1532

{
  "linkset": [
    {
      "anchor": "https://id.gs1.org/01/09506000149301",
      "https://gs1.org/voc/pip": [
        {
          "href": "https://example.com/en/defaultPage",
          "hreflang": [
            "en"
          ],
          "type": "text/html",
          "title": "Product information"
        },
        {
          "href": "https://example.com/fr/defaultPage",
          "hreflang": [
            "fr"
          ],
          "title": "Information produit"
        }
      ],
      "https://gs1.org/voc/whatsInTheBox": [
        {
          "href": "https://example.com/en/packContents/GB",
          "hreflang": [
            "en"
          ],
          "title": "What's in the box?"
        },
        {
          "href": "https://example.com/fr/packContents/FR",
          "hreflang": [
            "fr"
          ],
          "title": "Qu'y a-t-il dans la boite?"
        },
        {
          "href": "https://example.com/fr/packContents/CH",
          "hreflang": [
            "fr"
          ],
          "title": "Qu'y a-t-il dans la boite?"
        }
      ],
      "https://gs1.org/voc/relatedVideo": [
        {
          "href": "https://video.example",
          "hreflang": [

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

            "en",
            "fr"
          ],
          "title*": [
            {
              "value": "See it in action!",
              "language": "en"
            },
            {
              "value": "Voyez-le en action!",
              "language": "fr"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}

Figure 19: Using a typed link to support the discovery of a JSON-LD context for a linkset

In order to obtain the JSON-LD context conveyed by the server, the user agent issues an HTTP GET
against the link target of the link with the "
The response to this GET is shown in Figure 20. This particular JSON-LD context maps
"application/linkset+json" representations of link sets to Dublin Core terms
that the "linkset" entry in the JSON-LD context is introduced to support links with the "linkset"
relation type in link sets.

http://www.w3.org/ns/json-ld#context

[DCMI-TERMS]

" relation type.

. Note

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/ld+json
Content-Length: 658

{
  "@context": [
    {
      "@version": 1.1,
      "@vocab": "https://gs1.org/voc/",
      "anchor": "@id",
      "href": "@id",
      "linkset": {
        "@id": "@graph",
        "@context": {
          "linkset": "linkset"
        }
      },
      "title": {
        "@id": "http://purl.org/dc/terms/title"
      },
      "title*": {
        "@id": "http://purl.org/dc/terms/title"
      },
      "type": {
        "@id": "http://purl.org/dc/terms/format"
      }
    },
    {
      "language": "@language",
      "value": "@value",
      "hreflang": {
        "@id": "http://purl.org/dc/terms/language",
        "@container": "@set"
      }
    }
  ]
}

Figure 20: JSON-LD context mapping to Dublin Core terms

Applying the JSON-LD context of Figure 20 to the link set of Figure 19 allows transforming the
"application/linkset+json" link set to an RDF link set. Figure 21 shows the latter represented by
means of the "text/turtle" RDF serialization.

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

<https://example.com/en/defaultPage>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/format>
        "text/html" .
<https://example.com/en/defaultPage>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/language>
        "en" .
<https://example.com/en/defaultPage>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/title>
        "Product information" .
<https://example.com/en/packContents/GB>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/language>
        "en" .
<https://example.com/en/packContents/GB>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/title>
        "What's in the box?" .
<https://example.com/fr/defaultPage>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/language>
        "fr" .
<https://example.com/fr/defaultPage>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/title>
        "Information produit" .
<https://example.com/fr/packContents/CH>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/language>
        "fr" .
<https://example.com/fr/packContents/CH>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/title>
        "Qu'y a-t-il dans la boite?" .
<https://example.com/fr/packContents/FR>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/language>
        "fr" .
<https://example.com/fr/packContents/FR>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/title>
        "Qu'y a-t-il dans la boite?" .
<https://id.gs1.org/01/09506000149301>
        <https://gs1.org/voc/pip>
        <https://example.com/en/defaultPage> .
<https://id.gs1.org/01/09506000149301>
        <https://gs1.org/voc/pip>
        <https://example.com/fr/defaultPage> .
<https://id.gs1.org/01/09506000149301>
        <https://gs1.org/voc/relatedVideo>
        <https://video.example> .
<https://id.gs1.org/01/09506000149301>
        <https://gs1.org/voc/whatsInTheBox>
        <https://example.com/en/packContents/GB> .
<https://id.gs1.org/01/09506000149301>
        <https://gs1.org/voc/whatsInTheBox>
        <https://example.com/fr/packContents/CH> .
<https://id.gs1.org/01/09506000149301>
        <https://gs1.org/voc/whatsInTheBox>
        <https://example.com/fr/packContents/FR> .
<https://video.example>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/language>
        "en" .
<https://video.example>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/language>
        "fr" .

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9264

Linkset

July 2022

<https://video.example>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/title>
        "See it in action!"@en .
<https://video.example>
        <http://purl.org/dc/terms/title>
        "Voyez-le en action!"@fr .

Figure 21: RDF serialization of the linkset resulting from applying the JSON-LD context

Acknowledgements

Thanks for comments and suggestions provided by
Nottingham Julian Reschke Rob Sanderson Stian Soiland-Reyes Sarven Capadisli
Phillips
.

Phil Archer Dominique Guinard Mark

,
, and

,

,

,

,

,

Addison

Authors' Addresses

Erik Wilde
Axway
Email:

 erik.wilde@dret.net

Herbert Van de Sompel
Data Archiving and Networked Services
Email:
URI:

 https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0715-6126

 herbert.van.de.sompel@dans.knaw.nl

Wilde & Van de Sompel

Standards Track

Page 31

