Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9552
7752, 9029
Standards Track
December 2023
2070-1721
K. Talaulikar,
Cisco Systems

 Ed.

RFC 9552
Distribution of Link-State and Traffic Engineering
Information Using BGP

Abstract

In many environments, a component external to a network is called upon to perform
computations based on the network topology and the current state of the connections within the
network, including Traffic Engineering (TE) information. This is information typically distributed
by IGP routing protocols within the network.

This document describes a mechanism by which link-state and TE information can be collected
from networks and shared with external components using the BGP routing protocol. This is
achieved using a BGP Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) encoding format. The
mechanism applies to physical and virtual (e.g., tunnel) IGP links. The mechanism described is
subject to policy control.

Applications of this technique include Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) servers and
Path Computation Elements (PCEs).

This document obsoletes RFC 7752 by completely replacing that document. It makes some small
changes and clarifications to the previous specification. This document also obsoletes RFC 9029
by incorporating the updates that it made to RFC 7752.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9552
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Motivation and Applicability

2.1.  MPLS-TE with PCE

2.2.  ALTO Server Network API

3.  BGP Speaker Roles for BGP-LS

4.  Advertising IGP Information into BGP-LS

5.  Carrying Link-State Information in BGP

5.1.  TLV Format

5.2.  The Link-State NLRI

5.2.1.  Node Descriptors

5.2.2.  Link Descriptors

5.2.3.  Prefix Descriptors

5.3.  The BGP-LS Attribute

5.3.1.  Node Attribute TLVs

5.3.2.  Link Attribute TLVs

5.3.3.  Prefix Attribute TLVs

5.4.  Private Use

4

6

6

6

7

8

9

9

10

11

15

18

21

23

23

27

31

35

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

5.5.  BGP Next-Hop Information

5.6.  Inter-AS Links

5.7.  OSPF Virtual Links and Sham Links

5.8.  OSPFv2 Type 4 Summary-LSA & OSPFv3 Inter-Area-Router-LSA

5.9.  Handling of Unreachable IGP Nodes

5.10. Router-ID Anchoring Example: ISO Pseudonode

5.11. Router-ID Anchoring Example: OSPF Pseudonode

5.12. Router-ID Anchoring Example: OSPFv2 to IS-IS Migration

6.  Link to Path Aggregation

6.1.  Example: No Link Aggregation

6.2.  Example: ASBR to ASBR Path Aggregation

6.3.  Example: Multi-AS Path Aggregation

7.  IANA Considerations

7.1.  BGP-LS Registries

7.1.1.  BGP-LS NLRI Types Registry

7.1.2.  BGP-LS Protocol-IDs Registry

7.1.3.  BGP-LS Well-Known Instance-IDs Registry

7.1.4.  BGP-LS Node Flags Registry

7.1.5.  BGP-LS MPLS Protocol Mask Registry

7.1.6.  BGP-LS IGP Prefix Flags Registry

7.1.7.  BGP-LS TLVs Registry

7.2.  Guidance for Designated Experts

8.  Manageability Considerations

8.1.  Operational Considerations

8.1.1.  Operations

8.1.2.  Installation and Initial Setup

8.1.3.  Migration Path

8.1.4.  Requirements for Other Protocols and Functional Components

8.1.5.  Impact on Network Operation

8.1.6.  Verifying Correct Operation

35

36

36

36

36

38

38

39

40

40

40

41

41

42

42

42

43

43

43

44

44

45

46

46

46

46

47

47

47

47

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

8.2.  Management Considerations

8.2.1.  Management Information

8.2.2.  Fault Management

8.2.3.  Configuration Management

8.2.4.  Accounting Management

8.2.5.  Performance Management

8.2.6.  Security Management

9.  TLV/Sub-TLV Code Points Summary

10. Security Considerations

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Changes from RFC 7752

Acknowledgements

Contributors

Author's Address

47

47

47

49

50

50

50

50

52

53

53

55

57

58

59

60

1.  Introduction

The contents of a Link-State Database (LSDB) or of an IGP's Traffic Engineering Database (TED)
describe only the links and nodes within an IGP area. Some applications, such as end-to-end
Traffic Engineering (TE), would benefit from visibility outside one area or Autonomous System
(AS) to make better decisions.

The IETF has defined the Path Computation Element (PCE)
achieving the computation of end-to-end TE paths that crosses the visibility of more than one
TED or that requires CPU-intensive or coordinated computations. The IETF has also defined the
 as an entity that generates an abstracted network topology and provides
ALTO server
it to network-aware applications.

 as a mechanism for

[RFC5693]

[RFC4655]

Both a PCE and an ALTO server need to gather information about the topologies and capabilities
of the network to be able to fulfill their function.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

This document describes a mechanism by which link-state and TE information can be collected
[RFC4271]
from networks and shared with external components using the BGP routing protocol
.
This is achieved using a BGP Network Layer Reachability Information (NLRI) encoding format.
The mechanism applies to physical and virtual (e.g., tunnel) links. The mechanism described is
subject to policy control.

A router maintains one or more databases for storing link-state information about nodes and
links in any given area. Link attributes stored in these databases include: local/remote IP
addresses, local/remote interface identifiers, link IGP metric, link TE metric, link bandwidth,
reservable bandwidth, per Class-of-Service (CoS) class reservation state, preemption, and Shared
Risk Link Groups (SRLGs). The router's BGP - Link State (BGP-LS) process can retrieve topology
from these LSDBs and distribute it to a consumer, either directly or via a peer BGP Speaker
(typically a dedicated route reflector), using the encoding specified in this document.

An illustration of the collection of link-state and TE information and its distribution to consumers
is shown in Figure 1 below.

            +-----------+
            | Consumer  |
            +-----------+
                  ^
                  |
            +-----------+             +-----------+
            |    BGP    |             |    BGP    |
            |  Speaker  |<----------->|  Speaker  |  +-----------+
            |    RR1    |             |    RRm    |  | Consumer  |
            +-----------+             +-----------+  +-----------+
                ^   ^                       ^             ^
                |   |                       |             |
          +-----+   +---------+             +---------+   |
          |                   |                       |   |
    +-----------+       +-----------+             +-----------+
    |    BGP    |       |    BGP    |             |    BGP    |
    |  Speaker  |       |  Speaker  |    . . .    |  Speaker  |
    |    R1     |       |     R2    |             |    Rn     |
    +-----------+       +-----------+             +-----------+
          ^                   ^                         ^
          |                   |                         |
         IGP                 IGP                       IGP

Figure 1: Collection of Link-State and TE Information

A BGP Speaker may apply a configurable policy to the information that it distributes. Thus, it may
distribute the real physical topology from the LSDB or the TED. Alternatively, it may create an
abstracted topology, where virtual, aggregated nodes are connected by virtual paths. Aggregated
nodes can be created, for example, out of multiple routers in a Point of Presence (POP).
Abstracted topology can also be a mix of physical and virtual nodes and physical and virtual
links. Furthermore, the BGP Speaker can apply policy to determine when information is updated

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

to the consumer so that there is a reduction in information flow from the network to the
consumers. Mechanisms through which topologies can be aggregated or virtualized are outside
the scope of this document.

This document focuses on the specifications related to the origination of IGP-derived information
and their propagation via BGP-LS. It also describes the advertisement into BGP-LS of
information, either configured or derived, that is local to a node. In general, the procedures in
this document form part of the base BGP-LS protocol specification and apply to information from
other sources that are introduced into BGP-LS.

This document obsoletes
changes and clarifications to the previous specification as documented in Appendix A.

 by completely replacing that document. It makes some small

[RFC7752]

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Motivation and Applicability

This section describes use cases from which the requirements can be derived.

2.1.  MPLS-TE with PCE

As described in
, a PCE can be used to compute MPLS-TE paths within a "domain"
(such as an IGP area) or across multiple domains (such as a multi-area AS or multiple ASes).

[RFC4655]

•

Within a single area, the PCE offers enhanced computational power that may not be
available on individual routers, sophisticated policy control and algorithms, and
coordination of computation across the whole area.

•

If a router wants to compute an MPLS-TE path across IGP areas, then its own TED lacks
visibility of the complete topology. That means that the router cannot determine the end-to-
end path and cannot even select the right exit router (Area Border Router (ABR)) for an
optimal path. This is an issue for large-scale networks that need to segment their core
networks into distinct areas but still want to take advantage of MPLS-TE.

. The source router could only
Previous solutions used per-domain path computation
compute the path for the first area because the router only has full topological visibility for the
first area along the path but not for subsequent areas. Per-domain path computation selects the
exit ABR and other ABRs or AS Border Routers (ASBRs) as loose-hops
IGP-computed shortest path topology for the remainder of the path. This may lead to suboptimal
paths, makes alternate/back-up path computation hard, and might result in no TE path being
found when one does exist.

 and using the

[RFC5152]

[RFC3209]

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

The PCE presents a computation server that may have visibility into more than one IGP area or
AS or may cooperate with other PCEs to perform distributed path computation. The PCE needs
access to the TED for the area(s) it serves, but
Many implementations make the PCE a passive participant in the IGP so that it can learn the
latest state of the network, but this may be suboptimal when the network is subject to a high
degree of churn or when the PCE is responsible for multiple areas.

 does not describe how this is achieved.

[RFC4655]

The following figure shows how a PCE can get its TED information using the mechanism
described in this document.

             +----------+                           +---------+
             |  -----   |                           |   BGP   |
             | | TED |<-+-------------------------->| Speaker |
             |  -----   |   TED synchronization     |         |
             |    |     |        mechanism          +---------+
             |    |     |
             |    v     |
             |  -----   |
             | | PCE |  |
             |  -----   |
             +----------+
                  ^
                  | Request/
                  | Response
                  v
    Service  +----------+   Signaling  +----------+
    Request  | Head-End |   Protocol   | Adjacent |
    -------->|  Node    |<------------>|   Node   |
             +----------+              +----------+

Figure 2: External PCE Node Using a TED Synchronization Mechanism

The mechanism in this document allows the necessary TED information to be collected from the
IGP within the network, filtered according to configurable policy, and distributed to the PCE as
necessary.

2.2.  ALTO Server Network API

[RFC5693]

 is an entity that generates an abstracted network topology and

An ALTO server
provides it to network-aware applications over a web-service-based API. Example applications
are peer-to-peer (P2P) clients or trackers, or Content Distribution Networks (CDNs). The
abstracted network topology comes in the form of two maps: a Network Map that specifies the
allocation of prefixes to Partition Identifiers (PIDs) and a Cost Map that specifies the cost between
PIDs listed in the Network Map. For more details, see

[RFC7285]
.

ALTO abstract network topologies can be auto-generated from the physical topology of the
underlying network. The generation would typically be based on policies and rules set by the
operator. Both prefix and TE data are required: prefix data is required to generate ALTO Network
Maps and TE (topology) data is required to generate ALTO Cost Maps. Prefix data is carried and

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

originated in BGP, and TE data is originated and carried in an IGP. The mechanism defined in this
document provides a single interface through which an ALTO server can retrieve all the
necessary prefixes and network topology data from the underlying network. Note that an ALTO
server can use other mechanisms to get network data, for example, peering with multiple IGP
and BGP Speakers.

The following figure shows how an ALTO server can get network topology information from the
underlying network using the mechanism described in this document.

  +--------+
  | Client |<--+
  +--------+   |
               |    ALTO    +--------+     Topology    +---------+
  +--------+   |  Protocol  |  ALTO  | Sync Mechanism  |   BGP   |
  | Client |<--+------------| Server |<----------------| Speaker |
  +--------+   |            |        |                 |         |
               |            +--------+                 +---------+
  +--------+   |
  | Client |<--+
  +--------+

Figure 3: ALTO Server Using Network Topology Information

3.  BGP Speaker Roles for BGP-LS

In Figure 1, the BGP Speakers can be seen playing different roles in the distribution of
information using BGP-LS. This section introduces terms that explain the different roles of the
BGP Speakers that are then used throughout the rest of this document.

BGP-LS Producer:

The term BGP-LS Producer refers to a BGP Speaker that is originating link-
state information into BGP. BGP Speakers R1, R2, ... Rn originate link-state information from
their underlying link-state IGP protocols into BGP-LS. If R1 and R2 are in the same IGP
flooding domain, then they would ordinarily originate the same link-state information into
BGP-LS. R1 may also originate information from sources other than IGP, e.g., its local node
information.

BGP-LS Consumer:

The term BGP-LS Consumer refers to a consumer application/process and
not a BGP Speaker. BGP Speakers RR1 and Rn are handing off the BGP-LS information that
they have collected to a consumer application. The BGP protocol implementation and the
consumer application may be on the same or different nodes. This document only covers the
BGP implementation. The consumer application and the design of the interface between BGP
and the consumer application may be implementation specific and are outside the scope of
 be unidirectional (i.e., from a BGP
this document. The communication of information
Speaker to the BGP-LS Consumer application), and a BGP-LS Consumer
 be able to
send information to a BGP Speaker for origination into BGP-LS.

MUST NOT

MUST

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

BGP-LS Propagator: The term BGP-LS Propagator refers to a BGP Speaker that is performing

BGP protocol processing on the link-state information. BGP Speaker RRm propagates the BGP-
LS information between BGP Speaker Rn and BGP Speaker RR1. The BGP implementation on
RRm is propagating BGP-LS information. It performs handling of BGP-LS UPDATE messages
and performs the BGP Decision Process as part of deciding what information is to be
propagated. Similarly, BGP Speaker RR1 is receiving BGP-LS information from R1, R2, and
RRm and propagating the information to the BGP-LS Consumer after performing BGP
Decision Process.

The above roles are not mutually exclusive. The same BGP Speaker may be the BGP-LS Producer
for some link-state information and BGP-LS Propagator for some other link-state information
while also providing this information to a BGP-LS Consumer.

The rest of this document refers to the role when describing procedures that are specific to that
role. When the role is not specified, then the said procedure applies to all BGP Speakers.

4.  Advertising IGP Information into BGP-LS

The origination and propagation of IGP link-state information via BGP needs to provide a
consistent and accurate view of the topology of the IGP domain. BGP-LS provides an abstraction
of the IGP specifics, and BGP-LS Consumers may be varied types of applications.

The link-state information advertised in BGP-LS from the IGPs is derived from the IGP LSDB built
using the OSPF Link-State Advertisements (LSAs) or the IS-IS Link-State Packets (LSPs). However,
it does not serve as a verbatim reflection of the originating router's LSDB. It does not include the
LSA/LSP sequence number information since a single link-state object may be put together with
information that is coming from multiple LSAs/LSPs. Also, not all of the information carried in
LSAs/LSPs may be required or suitable for advertisement via BGP-LS (e.g., ASBR reachability in
OSPF, OSPF virtual links, link-local-scoped information, etc.). The LSAs/LSPs that are purged or
aged out are not included in the BGP-LS advertisement even though they may be present in the
LSDB (e.g., for the IGP flooding purposes). The information from the LSAs/LSPs that is invalid or
malformed or that which needs to be ignored per the respective IGP protocol specifications are
also not included in the BGP-LS advertisement.

The details of the interface between IGPs and BGP for the advertisement of link-state information
are outside the scope of this document. In some cases, the information derived from IGP
processing (e.g., combination of link-state object from across multiple LSAs/LSPs, leveraging
reachability and two-way connectivity checks, etc.) is required for the advertisement of link-state
information into BGP-LS.

5.  Carrying Link-State Information in BGP

The link-state information is carried in BGP UPDATE messages as: (1) BGP NLRI information
carried within MP_REACH_NLRI and MP_UNREACH_NLRI attributes that describes link, node, or
prefix objects and (2) a BGP path attribute (BGP-LS Attribute) that carries properties of the link,
node, or prefix objects such as the link and prefix metric, auxiliary Router-IDs of nodes, etc.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

It is desirable to keep the dependencies on the protocol source of this attribute to a minimum
and represent any content in an IGP-neutral way, such that applications that want to learn about
a link-state topology do not need to know about any OSPF or IS-IS protocol specifics.

This section mainly describes the procedures for a BGP-LS Producer to originate link-state
information into BGP-LS.

5.1.  TLV Format

Information in the Link-State NLRIs and the BGP-LS Attribute is encoded in Type/Length/Value
triplets. The TLV format is shown in Figure 4 and applies to both the NLRI and the BGP-LS
Attribute encodings.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                        Value (variable)                     //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 4: TLV Format

The Length field defines the length of the value portion in octets (thus, a TLV with no value
portion would have a length of zero). The TLV is not padded to 4-octet alignment. Unknown and
unsupported types
Attribute. The presence of unknown or unexpected TLVs
LS Attribute being considered malformed. An example of an unexpected TLV is when a TLV is
received along with an update for a link-state object other than the one that the TLV is specified
as associated with.

 be preserved and propagated within both the NLRI and the BGP-LS

 result in the NLRI or the BGP-

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

MUST

 be ordered in ascending

 be first in ascending order based on the Length field followed

To compare NLRIs with unknown TLVs, all TLVs within the NLRI
order by TLV Type. If there are multiple TLVs of the same type within a single NLRI, then the
TLVs sharing the same type
by ascending order based on the Value field. Comparison of the Value fields is performed by
treating the entire field as opaque binary data and ordered lexicographically (i.e., treating each
byte of binary data as a symbol to compare, with the symbols ordered by their numerical value).
NLRIs having TLVs that do not follow the above ordering rules
 be considered as malformed
by a BGP-LS Propagator. This insistence on canonical ordering ensures that multiple variant
copies of the same NLRI from multiple BGP-LS Producers and the ambiguity arising therefrom is
prevented.

MUST

For both the NLRI and BGP-LS Attribute parts, all TLVs are considered as optional except where
explicitly specified as mandatory or required in specific conditions.

The TLVs within the BGP-LS Attribute
BGP-LS Attribute with unordered TLVs

SHOULD

 be ordered in ascending order by TLV type. The

MUST NOT

 be considered malformed.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

The origination of the same link-state information by multiple BGP-LS Producers may result in
differences and inconsistencies due to the inclusion or exclusion of optional TLVs. Different
optional TLVs in the NLRI results in multiple NLRIs being generated for the same link-state
object. Different optional TLVs in the BGP-LS Attribute may result in the propagation of partial
information. To address these inconsistencies, the BGP-LS Consumer will need to recognize and
merge the duplicate information or deal with missing information. The deployment of BGP-LS
Producers that consistently originate the same set of optional TLVs is recommended to mitigate
such situations.

5.2.  The Link-State NLRI

The MP_REACH_NLRI and MP_UNREACH_NLRI attributes are BGP's containers for carrying
opaque information. This specification defines three Link-State NLRI types that describe either a
node, a link, or a prefix.

All non-VPN link, node, and prefix information
link, node, and prefix information

SHALL

 be encoded using AFI 16388 / SAFI 72.

SHALL

 be encoded using AFI 16388 / SAFI 71. VPN

For two BGP Speakers to exchange Link-State NLRI, they
Advertisement to ensure that they are both capable of properly processing such NLRI. This is
done as specified in
SAFI 71 for BGP-LS and AFI 16388 / SAFI 72 for BGP-LS-VPN.

 by using capability code 1 (multiprotocol BGP), with AFI 16388 /

 use BGP Capabilities

[RFC4760]

MUST

New Link-State NLRI types may be introduced in the future. Since supported NLRI type values
within the address family are not expressed in the Multiprotocol BGP (MP-BGP) capability
[RFC4760]
, it is possible that a BGP Speaker has advertised support for BGP-LS but does not
support a particular Link-State NLRI type. To allow the introduction of new Link-State NLRI types
seamlessly in the future without the need for upgrading all BGP Speakers in the propagation path
(e.g., a route reflector), this document deviates from the default handling behavior specified by
Section 5.4 (paragraph 2) of
MUST
handle unknown Link-State NLRI types as opaque objects and
them.

 for Link-State address family. An implementation

 preserve and propagate

[RFC7606]

MUST

The format of the Link-State NLRI is shown in the following figures.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |            NLRI Type          |     Total NLRI Length         |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
  //                  Link-State NLRI (variable)                 //
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 5: Link-State AFI 16388 / SAFI 71 NLRI Format

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |            NLRI Type          |     Total NLRI Length         |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
  +                Route Distinguisher (8 octets)                 +
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
  //                  Link-State NLRI (variable)                 //
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: Link-State VPN AFI 16388 / SAFI 72 NLRI Format

The Total NLRI Length field contains the cumulative length, in octets, of the rest of the NLRI, not
including the NLRI Type field or itself. For VPN applications, it also includes the length of the
Route Distinguisher.

Type

NLRI Type

1

2

3

4

Node NLRI

Link NLRI

IPv4 Topology Prefix NLRI

IPv6 Topology Prefix NLRI

Table 1: NLRI Types

Route Distinguishers are defined and discussed in

[RFC4364]
.

The Node NLRI (NLRI Type = 1) is shown in the following figure.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |  Protocol-ID  |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                           Identifier                          |
  +                           (8 octets)                          +
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //             Local Node Descriptors TLV (variable)           //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: The Node NLRI Format

The Link NLRI (NLRI Type = 2) is shown in the following figure.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |  Protocol-ID  |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                           Identifier                          |
  +                           (8 octets)                          +
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //            Local Node Descriptors TLV (variable)            //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //            Remote Node Descriptors TLV (variable)           //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //               Link Descriptors TLVs (variable)              //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 8: The Link NLRI Format

The IPv4 and IPv6 Prefix NLRIs (NLRI Type = 3 and Type = 4) use the same format as shown in
the following figure.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |  Protocol-ID  |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                           Identifier                          |
  +                           (8 octets)                          +
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //            Local Node Descriptors TLV (variable)            //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //             Prefix Descriptors TLVs (variable)              //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 9: The IPv4/IPv6 Topology Prefix NLRI Format

The Protocol-ID field can contain one of the following values:

Protocol-ID NLRI information source protocol

1

2

3

4

5

6

IS-IS Level 1

IS-IS Level 2

OSPFv2

Direct

Static configuration

OSPFv3

Table 2: Protocol Identifiers

The 'Direct' and 'Static configuration' protocol types
local information. For all information derived from other protocols, the corresponding Protocol-
ID
local link, then the Protocol-ID 'Direct'
described in Section 6, the Protocol-ID 'Static configuration'

 be used. If BGP-LS has direct access to interface information and wants to advertise a

 be used. For modeling virtual links, such as

 be used when BGP-LS is sourcing

 be used.

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

MUST

A router may run multiple protocol instances of OSPF or IS-IS whereby it becomes a border
router between multiple IGP domains. Both OSPF and IS-IS may also run multiple routing
protocol instances over the same link. See
independent IGP routing domains. The Identifier field carries an 8-octet BGP-LS Instance
Identifier (Instance-ID) number that is used to identify the IGP routing domain where the NLRI
belongs. The NLRIs representing link-state objects (nodes, links, or prefixes) from the same IGP
routing instance should have the same BGP-LS Instance-ID. NLRIs with different BGP-LS
Instance-IDs are considered to be from different IGP routing instances.

. These instances define

[RFC6549]

[RFC8202]

 and

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

To support multiple IGP instances, an implementation needs to support the configuration of
unique BGP-LS Instance-IDs at the routing protocol instance level. The BGP-LS Instance-ID 0 is
 to be used when there is only a single protocol instance in the network where
RECOMMENDED
BGP-LS is operational. The network operator
 assign the same BGP-LS Instance-IDs on all
BGP-LS Producers within a given IGP domain. Unique BGP-LS Instance-IDs
routing protocol instances operating in different IGP domains. This can allow the BGP-LS
Consumer to build an accurate segregated multi-domain topology based on the BGP-LS Instance-
ID.

 be assigned to

MUST

MUST

When the above-described semantics and recommendations are not followed, a BGP-LS
Consumer may see more than one link-state object for the same node, link, or prefix (each with a
different BGP-LS Instance-ID) when there are multiple BGP-LS Producers deployed. This may also
result in the BGP-LS Consumers getting an inaccurate network-wide topology.

Each Node Descriptor, Link Descriptor, and Prefix Descriptor consists of one or more TLVs, as
described in the following sections. These Descriptor TLVs are applicable for the Node, Link, and
Prefix NLRI Types for the protocols that are listed in Table 2. Documents extending BGP-LS
specifications with new NLRI Types and/or protocols

 specify the NLRI descriptors for them.

MUST

When adding, removing, or modifying a TLV/sub-TLV from a Link-State NLRI, the BGP-LS
Producer
 withdraw the old NLRI by including it in the MP_UNREACH_NLRI. Not doing so
can result in duplicate and inconsistent link-state objects hanging around in the BGP-LS table.

MUST

5.2.1.  Node Descriptors

Each link is anchored by a pair of Router-IDs that are used by the underlying IGP, namely a 48-bit
ISO System-ID for IS-IS and a 32-bit Router-ID for OSPFv2 and OSPFv3. An IGP may use one or
more additional auxiliary Router-IDs, mainly for Traffic Engineering purposes. For example, IS-IS
may have one or more IPv4 and IPv6 TE Router-IDs
these auxiliary TE Router-IDs (TLV 1028/1029)
MUST
in Section 5.3.1 and
MAY
advertisement of the TE Router-IDs can help a BGP-LS Consumer to correlate multiple link-state
objects (e.g., in different IGP instances or areas/levels) to the same node in the network.

[RFC5305] [RFC6119]
 be included in the node attribute described

 be included in the link attribute described in Section 5.3.2. The

. When configured,

It is desirable that the Router-ID assignments inside the Node Descriptors are globally unique.
However, there may be Router-ID spaces (e.g., ISO) where no global registry exists, or worse,
Router-IDs have been allocated following the private-IP allocation described in
LS uses the Autonomous System Number to disambiguate the Router-IDs, as described in Section
5.2.1.1.

[RFC1918]

. BGP-

5.2.1.1.  Globally Unique Node/Link/Prefix Identifiers

One problem that needs to be addressed is the ability to identify an IGP node globally (by
"globally", we mean within the BGP-LS database collected by all BGP-LS Speakers that talk to each
other). This can be expressed through the following two requirements:

(A)

The same node
two nodes).

MUST NOT

 be represented by two keys (otherwise, one node will look like

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

(B)

Two different nodes
look like one node).

MUST NOT

 be represented by the same key (otherwise, two nodes will

We define an "IGP domain" to be the set of nodes (hence, by extension, links and prefixes) within
which each node has a unique IGP representation by using the combination of OSPF Area-ID,
Router-ID, Protocol-ID, Multi-Topology Identifier (MT-ID), and BGP-LS Instance-ID. The problem is
that BGP may receive node/link/prefix information from multiple independent "IGP domains",
and we need to distinguish between them. Moreover, we can't assume there is always one and
only one IGP domain per AS. During IGP transitions, it may happen that two redundant IGPs are
in place.

Furthermore, in deployments where BGP-LS is used to advertise topology from multiple ASes, the
Autonomous System Number (ASN) is used to distinguish topology information reported from
different ASes.

The BGP-LS Instance-ID carried in the Identifier field, as described earlier along with a set of sub-
TLVs described in Section 5.2.1.4, allows specification of a flexible key for any given node/link
information such that the global uniqueness of the NLRI is ensured. Since the BGP-LS Instance-ID
is operator assigned, its allocation scheme can ensure that each IGP domain is uniquely
identified even across a multi-AS network.

5.2.1.2.  Local Node Descriptors

The Local Node Descriptors TLV contains Node Descriptors for the node anchoring the local end
of the link. This is a mandatory TLV in all three types of NLRIs (node, link, and prefix). The Type
is 256. The length of this TLV is variable. The value contains one or more Node Descriptor sub-
TLVs defined in Section 5.2.1.4.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
  //              Node Descriptor Sub-TLVs (variable)            //
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 10: Local Node Descriptors TLV Format

5.2.1.3.  Remote Node Descriptors

The Remote Node Descriptors TLV contains Node Descriptors for the node anchoring the remote
end of the link. This is a mandatory TLV for Link NLRIs. The Type is 257. The length of this TLV is
variable. The value contains one or more Node Descriptor sub-TLVs defined in Section 5.2.1.4.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                                                               |
  //              Node Descriptor Sub-TLVs (variable)            //
  |                                                               |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 11: Remote Node Descriptors TLV Format

5.2.1.4.  Node Descriptor Sub-TLVs

The Node Descriptor sub-TLV type code points and lengths are listed in the following table:

Sub-TLV Code Point Description

Length

512

513

514

515

Autonomous System

BGP-LS Identifier (deprecated)

OSPF Area-ID

4

4

4

IGP Router-ID

Variable

Table 3: Node Descriptor Sub-TLVs

The sub-TLV values in Node Descriptor TLVs are defined as follows:

Autonomous System:

Opaque value (32-bit AS Number). This is an optional TLV. The value

 be set to the AS Number associated with the BGP process originating the link-state

SHOULD
information. An implementation
to use a different value, e.g., to avoid collisions when using private AS Numbers.

 provide a configuration option on the BGP-LS Producer

MAY

BGP-LS Identifier:

Opaque value (32-bit ID). This is an optional TLV that has been deprecated by

this document (refer to Appendix A for more details). It
with
considerations and a recommended default value.

[RFC7752]

 implementations. See the final paragraph of this section for further

MAY

 be advertised for compatibility

OSPF Area-ID:

Used to identify the 32-bit area to which the information advertised in the NLRI

belongs. This is a mandatory TLV when originating information from OSPF that is derived
from area-scope LSAs. The OSPF Area Identifier allows different NLRIs of the same router to
be differentiated on a per-area basis. It is not used for NLRIs when carrying information that
is derived from AS-scope LSAs as that information is not associated with a specific area.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

IGP Router-ID: Opaque value. This is a mandatory TLV when originating information from IS-IS,
OSPF, 'Direct', or 'Static configuration'. For an IS-IS non-pseudonode, this contains a 6-octet ISO
Node-ID (ISO System-ID). For an IS-IS pseudonode corresponding to a LAN, this contains the 6-
octet ISO Node-ID of the Designated Intermediate System (DIS) followed by a 1-octet, nonzero
PSN identifier (7 octets in total). For an OSPFv2 or OSPFv3 non-pseudonode, this contains the
4-octet Router-ID. For an OSPFv2 pseudonode representing a LAN, this contains the 4-octet
Router-ID of the Designated Router (DR) followed by the 4-octet IPv4 address of the DR's
interface to the LAN (8 octets in total). Similarly, for an OSPFv3 pseudonode, this contains the
4-octet Router-ID of the DR followed by the 4-octet interface identifier of the DR's interface to
the LAN (8 octets in total). The TLV size in combination with the protocol identifier enables
the decoder to determine the type of the node. For 'Direct' or 'Static configuration', the value
SHOULD
node. When the node is running an IGP protocol, an implementation
IGP Router-ID for 'Direct' or 'Static configuration'.

 be taken from an IPv4 or IPv6 address (e.g., loopback interface) configured on the
 choose to use the

MAY

 be one instance of each sub-TLV type present in any Node Descriptor. The
 be arranged in ascending order by sub-TLV type. This

At most, there
MUST
sub-TLVs within a Node Descriptor
needs to be done to compare NLRIs, even when an implementation encounters an unknown sub-
TLV. Using stable sorting, an implementation can do a binary comparison of NLRIs and hence
allow incremental deployment of new key sub-TLVs.

MUST

SHOULD

[RFC7752]

, and its use is being deprecated by this

 support the advertisement of this sub-TLV for backward

The BGP-LS Identifier was introduced by
document. Implementations
compatibility in deployments where there are BGP-LS Producer implementations that conform to
[RFC7752]
 to ensure consistency of NLRI encoding for link-state objects. The default value of 0 is
 to be used when a BGP-LS Producer includes this sub-TLV when originating
RECOMMENDED
information into BGP-LS. Implementations
 provide an option to configure this value for
SHOULD
backward compatibility reasons. As a reminder, the use of the BGP-LS Instance-ID that is carried
in the Identifier field is the way of segregation of link-state objects of different IGP domains in
BGP-LS.

5.2.2.  Link Descriptors

The Link Descriptor field is a set of Type/Length/Value (TLV) triplets. The format of each TLV is
shown in Section 5.1. The Link Descriptor TLVs uniquely identify a link among multiple parallel
links between a pair of anchor routers. A link described by the Link Descriptor TLVs actually is a
"half-link", a unidirectional representation of a logical link. To fully describe a single logical link,
two anchor routers advertise a half-link each, i.e., two Link NLRIs are advertised for a given
point-to-point link.

A link between two nodes is not considered as complete (or available) unless it is described by
the two Link NLRIs corresponding to the half-link representation from the pair of anchor nodes.
This check is similar to the 'two-way connectivity check' that is performed by link-state IGPs.

An implementation
 suppress the advertisement of a Link NLRI, corresponding to a half-link,
from a link-state IGP unless the IGP has verified that the link is being reported in the IS-IS LSP or
OSPF Router LSA by both the nodes connected by that link. This 'two-way connectivity check' is

MAY

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

performed by link-state IGPs during their computation and can be leveraged before passing
information for any half-link that is reported from these IGPs into BGP-LS. This ensures that only
those link-state IGP adjacencies that are established get reported via Link NLRIs. Such a 'two-way
connectivity check' could also be required in certain cases (e.g., with OSPF) to obtain the proper
link identifiers of the remote node.

The format and semantics of the Value fields in most Link Descriptor TLVs correspond to the
format and semantics of Value fields in IS-IS Extended IS Reachability sub-TLVs, which are
defined in
were originally defined for IS-IS, the TLVs can carry data sourced by either IS-IS or OSPF.

. Although the encodings for Link Descriptor TLVs

[RFC5305] [RFC5307]
,

[RFC6119]

, and

The following TLVs are defined as Link Descriptors in the Link NLRI:

TLV Code
Point

258

Description

Link Local/Remote
Identifiers

259

IPv4 interface address

260

IPv4 neighbor address

261

IPv6 interface address

262

IPv6 neighbor address

IS-IS TLV/Sub-
TLV

Reference

22/4

22/6

22/8

22/12

22/13

[RFC5307], Section
1.1

[RFC5305], Section
3.2

[RFC5305], Section
3.3

[RFC6119], Section
4.2

[RFC6119], Section
4.3

263

Multi-Topology Identifier

---

Section 5.2.2.1

Table 4: Link Descriptor TLVs

The information about a link present in the LSA/LSP originated by the local node of the link
determines the set of TLVs in the Link Descriptor of the link.

MUST

 be included in the Link Descriptor. The Link Local/Remote Identifiers TLV

If interface and neighbor addresses, either IPv4 or IPv6, are present, then the interface/
neighbor address TLVs
NOT
included in the link attribute when available. IPv4/IPv6 link-local addresses
carried in the IPv4/IPv6 interface/neighbor address TLVs (259/260/261/262) as descriptors of a
link since they are not considered unique.

 be included, and the Link Local/Remote Identifiers TLV

 be
MUST NOT

MUST

MAY

 be

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

If interface and neighbor addresses are not present and the link local/remote identifiers are
present, then the Link Local/Remote Identifiers TLV
The Link Local/Remote identifiers
links having only IPv6 link-local addressing on them.

 be included in the Link Descriptor.
 be included in the Link Descriptor and in the case of

MUST

MUST

The Multi-Topology Identifier TLV
link object is associated with a non-default topology.

MUST

 be included as a Link Descriptor if the underlying IGP

The TLVs/sub-TLVs corresponding to the interface addresses and/or the local/remote identifiers
may not always be signaled in the IGPs unless their advertisement is enabled specifically. In such
cases, it is valid to advertise a BGP-LS Link NLRI without any of these identifiers.

5.2.2.1.  Multi-Topology Identifier

The Multi-Topology Identifier (MT-ID) TLV carries one or more IS-IS or OSPF Multi-Topology
Identifiers for a link, node, or prefix.

The semantics of the IS-IS MT-ID are defined in Sections 7.1 and 7.2 of
of the OSPF MT-ID are defined in
derived from OSPF, then the upper R bits of the MT-ID field
from 0 to 127 are valid for the MT-ID.

Section 3.7 of [RFC4915]

MUST

[RFC5120]

. The semantics

. If the value in the MT-ID TLV is

 be set to 0 and only the values

The format of the MT-ID TLV is shown in the following figure.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |          Length=2*n           |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |R R R R|  Multi-Topology ID 1  |             ....             //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //             ....             |R R R R|  Multi-Topology ID n  |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 12: Multi-Topology Identifier TLV Format

The Type is 263, the length is 2*n, and n is the number of MT-IDs carried in the TLV.

MAY

 be included as a Link Descriptor, as a Prefix Descriptor, or in the BGP-LS

The MT-ID TLV
Attribute of a Node NLRI. When included as a Link or Prefix Descriptor, only a single MT-ID TLV
containing the MT-ID of the topology where the link or the prefix is reachable is allowed. In case
one wants to advertise multiple topologies for a given Link or Prefix Descriptor, multiple NLRIs
MUST
Prefix Descriptor for IS-IS, the Bits R are reserved and
[RFC5120]

 be generated where each NLRI contains a single unique MT-ID. When used as a Link or

) when originated and ignored on receipt.

 be set to 0 (as per

Section 7.2 of

MUST

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

In the BGP-LS Attribute of a Node NLRI, one MT-ID TLV containing the array of MT-IDs of all
topologies where the node is reachable is allowed. When used in the Node Attribute TLV for IS-IS,
Section 7.1 of [RFC5120]
.
the Bits R are set as per

5.2.3.  Prefix Descriptors

The Prefix Descriptor field is a set of Type/Length/Value (TLV) triplets. Prefix Descriptor TLVs
uniquely identify an IPv4 or IPv6 prefix originated by a node. The following TLVs are defined as
Prefix Descriptors in the IPv4/IPv6 Prefix NLRI:

TLV Code Point Description

Length

Reference

263

264

265

Multi-Topology Identifier

variable

Section 5.2.2.1

OSPF Route Type

1

Section 5.2.3.1

IP Reachability Information

variable

Section 5.2.3.2

Table 5: Prefix Descriptor TLVs

The Multi-Topology Identifier TLV
IGP prefix object is associated with a non-default topology.

MUST

 be included in the Prefix Descriptor if the underlying

5.2.3.1.  OSPF Route Type

MAY

The OSPF Route Type TLV is an optional TLV corresponding to Prefix NLRIs originated from
OSPF. It is used to identify the OSPF route type of the prefix. An OSPF prefix
the OSPF domain with multiple route types. The Route Type TLV allows the discrimination of
these advertisements. The OSPF Route Type TLV
the type is either being signaled explicitly in the underlying LSA or can be determined via
another LSA for the same prefix when it is not signaled explicitly (e.g., in the case of OSPFv2
Extended Prefix Opaque LSA
). The route type advertised in the OSPFv2 Extended
) does not make a distinction between Type 1 and 2 for AS
Prefix TLV (
external and Not-So-Stubby Area (NSSA) external routes. In this case, the route type to be used in
the BGP-LS advertisement can be determined by checking the OSPFv2 External or NSSA External
LSA for the prefix. A similar check for the base OSPFv2 LSAs can be done to determine the route
type to be used when the route type value 0 is carried in the OSPFv2 Extended Prefix TLV.

 be included in the advertisement when

Section 2.1 of [RFC7684]

 be advertised in

[RFC7684]

MUST

The format of the OSPF Route Type TLV is shown in the following figure.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |  Route Type   |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 13: OSPF Route Type TLV Format

The Type and Length fields of the TLV are defined in Table 5. The Route Type field follows the
route types defined in the OSPF protocol and can be one of the following:

•

Intra-Area (0x1)

•

Inter-Area (0x2)

•

External 1 (0x3)

•

External 2 (0x4)

•

NSSA 1 (0x5)

•

NSSA 2 (0x6)

5.2.3.2.  IP Reachability Information

The IP Reachability Information TLV is a mandatory TLV for IPv4 & IPv6 Prefix NLRI types. The
TLV contains one IP address prefix (IPv4 or IPv6) originally advertised in the IGP topology. A
router
 advertise an IP Prefix NLRI for each of its BGP next hops. The format of the IP
Reachability Information TLV is shown in the following figure:

SHOULD

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  | Prefix Length | IP Prefix (variable)                         //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 14: IP Reachability Information TLV Format

The Type and Length fields of the TLV are defined in Table 5. The following two fields determine
the reachability information of the address family. The Prefix Length field contains the length of
the prefix in bits. The IP Prefix field contains an IP address prefix followed by the minimum
number of trailing bits needed to make the end of the field fall on an octet boundary. Any trailing
bits
i.e., 1 octet for prefix length 1 up to 8, 2 octets for prefix length 9 up to 16, 3 octets for prefix
length 17 up to 24, 4 octets for prefix length 25 up to 32, etc.

 be set to 0. Thus, the IP Prefix field contains the most significant octets of the prefix,

MUST

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

5.3.  The BGP-LS Attribute

The BGP-LS Attribute (assigned value 29 by IANA) is an optional, non-transitive BGP Attribute
that is used to carry link, node, and prefix parameters and attributes. It is defined as a set of
Type/Length/Value (TLV) triplets, as described in the following section. This attribute
SHOULD
only be included with Link-State NLRIs. The use of this attribute for other address families is
outside the scope of this document.

The Node Attribute TLVs, Link Attribute TLVs, and Prefix Attribute TLVs are sets of TLVs that may
be encoded in the BGP-LS Attribute associated with a Node NLRI, Link NLRI, and Prefix NLRI
respectively.

The size of the BGP-LS Attribute may potentially grow large, depending on the amount of link-
state information associated with a single Link-State NLRI. The BGP specification
 that
mandates a maximum BGP message size of 4096 octets. It is
implementations support the extended message size for BGP
size of information within the BGP-LS Attribute. BGP-LS Producers
included in the BGP-LS Attribute does not result in a BGP UPDATE message for a single Link-State
NLRI that crosses the maximum limit for a BGP message.

 to accommodate a larger
 ensure that the TLVs

RECOMMENDED

[RFC4271]

[RFC8654]

MUST

MAY

 adopt mechanisms to avoid this problem that may be based on the BGP-

An implementation
LS Consumer applications' requirement; these mechanisms are beyond the scope of this
specification. However, if an implementation chooses to mitigate the problem by excluding some
TLVs from the BGP-LS Attribute, this exclusion
Producers within a given BGP-LS domain. In the event of inconsistent exclusion of TLVs from the
BGP-LS Attribute, the result would be a differing set of attributes of the link-state object being
propagated to BGP-LS Consumers based on the BGP Decision Process at BGP-LS Propagators.

 be done consistently by all BGP-LS

SHOULD

When a BGP-LS Propagator finds that it is exceeding the maximum BGP message size due to the
addition or update of some other BGP Attribute (e.g., AS_PATH), it
Attribute to be malformed, apply the 'Attribute Discard' error-handling approach
handle the propagation as described in Section 8.2.2. When a BGP-LS Propagator needs to
perform 'Attribute Discard' for reducing the BGP UPDATE message size as specified in
[RFC8654] MUST
error condition as discussed in Section 8.2.2. This brings the deployment consideration that the
consistent propagation of BGP-LS information with a BGP UPDATE message size larger than 4096
octets can only happen along a set of BGP Speakers that all support the contents of

Section 4 of
 first discard the BGP-LS Attribute to enable the detection and diagnosis of this

 consider the BGP-LS
[RFC7606]

[RFC8654]
.

MUST

, and

, it

5.3.1.  Node Attribute TLVs

The following Node Attribute TLVs are defined for the BGP-LS Attribute associated with a Node
NLRI:

TLV Code Point Description

Length

Reference

263

Multi-Topology Identifier

variable

Section 5.2.2.1

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

TLV Code Point Description

Length

Reference

1024

1025

1026

1027

1028

1029

Node Flag Bits

1

Section 5.3.1.1

Opaque Node Attribute

variable

Section 5.3.1.5

Node Name

variable

Section 5.3.1.3

IS-IS Area Identifier

variable

Section 5.3.1.2

IPv4 Router-ID of Local Node

4

[RFC5305], Section 4.3

IPv6 Router-ID of Local Node

16

[RFC6119], Section 4.1

Table 6: Node Attribute TLVs

5.3.1.1.  Node Flag Bits TLV

The Node Flag Bits TLV carries a bitmask describing node attributes. The value is a 1-octet-length
bit array of flags, where each bit represents a node-operational state or attribute.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |O|T|E|B|R|V|   |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 15: Node Flag Bits TLV Format

The bits are defined as follows:

Bit

Description

Reference

'O'

Overload Bit

[ISO10589]

'A'

'E'

'B'

'R'

'V'

Attached Bit

[ISO10589]

External Bit

[RFC2328]

ABR Bit

[RFC2328]

Router Bit

[RFC5340]

V6 Bit

[RFC5340]

Table 7: Node Flag Bits Definitions

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

The bits that are not defined
receiver.

MUST

 be set to 0 by the originator and

MUST

 be ignored by the

5.3.1.2.  IS-IS Area Identifier TLV

An IS-IS node can be part of only a single IS-IS area. However, a node can have multiple
synonymous area addresses. Each of these area addresses is carried in the IS-IS Area Identifier
TLV. If multiple area addresses are present, multiple TLVs are used to encode them. The IS-IS
Area Identifier TLV may be present in the BGP-LS Attribute only when advertised in the Link-
State Node NLRI.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //               IS-IS Area Identifier (variable)              //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 16: IS-IS Area Identifier TLV Format

5.3.1.3.  Node Name TLV

[RFC5301]

The Node Name TLV is optional. The encoding semantics for the node name has been borrowed
from
. The Value field identifies the symbolic name of the router node. This symbolic
name can be the Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) for the router, a substring of the FQDN
(e.g., a hostname), or any string that an operator wants to use for the router. The use of the FQDN
or a substring of it is strongly
255 octets.

. The maximum length of the Node Name TLV is

RECOMMENDED

The Value field is encoded in 7-bit ASCII. If a user interface for configuring or displaying this field
permits Unicode characters, then the user interface is responsible for applying the ToASCII and/
or ToUnicode algorithm as described in
 to achieve the correct format for transmission
or display.

[RFC5890]

[RFC5301]
the advertisement of the node name, which may be encoded in the Node Name TLV.

 describes an IS-IS-specific extension, and

[RFC5642]

 describes an OSPF extension for

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                     Node Name (variable)                    //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 17: Node Name Format

5.3.1.4.  Local IPv4/IPv6 Router-ID TLVs

The local IPv4/IPv6 Router-ID TLVs are used to describe auxiliary Router-IDs that the IGP might
be using, e.g., for TE and migration purposes such as correlating a Node-ID between different
protocols. If there is more than one auxiliary Router-ID of a given type, then each one is encoded
as a separate TLV.

5.3.1.5.  Opaque Node Attribute TLV

The Opaque Node Attribute TLV is an envelope that transparently carries optional Node
Attribute TLVs advertised by a router. An originating router shall use this TLV for encoding
information specific to the protocol advertised in the NLRI header Protocol-ID field or new
protocol extensions to the protocol as advertised in the NLRI header Protocol-ID field for which
there is no protocol-neutral representation in the BGP Link-State NLRI. The primary use of the
Opaque Node Attribute TLV is to bridge the document lag between a new IGP link-state attribute
and its protocol-neutral BGP-LS extension being defined. Once the protocol-neutral BGP-LS
extensions are defined, the BGP-LS implementations may still need to advertise the information
both within the Opaque Attribute TLV and the new TLV definition for incremental deployment
and transition.

In the case of OSPF, this TLV
Router Information (RI) LSA

 be used to advertise TLVs other than those in the OSPF
MUST NOT
[RFC7770]
.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //               Opaque Node Attributes (variable)             //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 18: Opaque Node Attribute Format

The Type is as specified in Table 6. The length is variable.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

5.3.2.  Link Attribute TLVs

Link Attribute TLVs are TLVs that may be encoded in the BGP-LS Attribute with a Link NLRI. Each
'Link Attribute' is a Type/Length/Value (TLV) triplet formatted as defined in Section 5.1. The
format and semantics of the Value fields in some Link Attribute TLVs correspond to the format
and semantics of the Value fields in IS-IS Extended IS Reachability sub-TLVs, which are defined in
[RFC5305]
encodings for Link Attribute TLVs were originally defined for IS-IS, the TLVs can carry data
sourced by either IS-IS or OSPF.

. Other Link Attribute TLVs are defined in this document. Although the

[RFC5307]

 and

The following Link Attribute TLVs are defined for the BGP-LS Attribute associated with a Link
NLRI:

TLV Code
Point

Description

IS-IS TLV/Sub-
TLV

Reference

1028

IPv4 Router-ID of Local Node

134/---

1029

IPv6 Router-ID of Local Node

140/---

1030

1031

IPv4 Router-ID of Remote
Node

IPv6 Router-ID of Remote
Node

1088

Administrative group (color)

1089

Maximum link bandwidth

1090

Max. reservable link
bandwidth

1091

Unreserved bandwidth

1092

1093

TE Default Metric

Link Protection Type

134/---

140/---

22/3

22/9

22/10

22/11

22/18

22/20

[RFC5305], Section
4.3

[RFC6119], Section
4.1

[RFC5305], Section
4.3

[RFC6119], Section
4.1

[RFC5305], Section
3.1

[RFC5305], Section
3.4

[RFC5305], Section
3.5

[RFC5305], Section
3.6

Section 5.3.2.3

[RFC5307], Section
1.2

1094

MPLS Protocol Mask

---

Section 5.3.2.2

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

TLV Code
Point

Description

IS-IS TLV/Sub-
TLV

Reference

1095

1096

1097

1098

IGP Metric

Shared Risk Link Group

Opaque Link Attribute

Link Name

Table 8: Link Attribute TLVs

5.3.2.1.  IPv4/IPv6 Router-ID TLVs

---

---

---

---

Section 5.3.2.4

Section 5.3.2.5

Section 5.3.2.6

Section 5.3.2.7

The local/remote IPv4/IPv6 Router-ID TLVs are used to describe auxiliary Router-IDs that the IGP
might be using, e.g., for TE purposes. All auxiliary Router-IDs of both the local and the remote
node
auxiliary Router-ID of a given type, then multiple TLVs are used to encode them.

 be included in the link attribute of each Link NLRI. If there is more than one

MUST

5.3.2.2.  MPLS Protocol Mask TLV

The MPLS Protocol Mask TLV carries a bitmask describing which MPLS signaling protocols are
enabled. The length of this TLV is 1. The value is a bit array of 8 flags, where each bit represents
an MPLS Protocol capability.

Generation of the MPLS Protocol Mask TLV is only valid for and
originators that have local link insight, for example, the Protocol-IDs 'Static configuration' or
'Direct' as per Table 2. The MPLS Protocol Mask TLV
 be included in NLRIs with the
other Protocol-IDs listed in Table 2.

 only be used with

MUST NOT

SHOULD

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |L|R|  Reserved |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 19: MPLS Protocol Mask TLV

The following bits are defined, and the reserved bits
on receipt:

MUST

 be set to zero and

SHOULD

 be ignored

Bit Description

Reference

'L'

Label Distribution Protocol (LDP)

[RFC5036]

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

Bit Description

Reference

'R'

Extension to RSVP for LSP Tunnels (RSVP-TE)

[RFC3209]

Table 9: MPLS Protocol Mask TLV Codes

The bits that are not defined
receiver.

MUST

 be set to 0 by the originator and

MUST

 be ignored by the

5.3.2.3.  TE Default Metric TLV

The TE Default Metric TLV carries the Traffic Engineering metric for this link. The length of this
TLV is fixed at 4 octets. If a source protocol uses a metric width of fewer than 32 bits, then the
high-order bits of this field

 be padded with zero.

MUST

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                    TE Default Link Metric                     |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 20: TE Default Metric TLV Format

5.3.2.4.  IGP Metric TLV

The IGP Metric TLV carries the metric for this link. The length of this TLV is variable, depending
on the metric width of the underlying protocol. IS-IS small metrics are 6 bits in size but are
encoded in a 1-octet field; therefore, the two most significant bits of the field
the originator and
MUST
IS-IS wide metrics have a length of 3 octets.

 be set to 0 by
 be ignored by the receiver. OSPF link metrics have a length of 2 octets.

MUST

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //      IGP Link Metric (variable length)      //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 21: IGP Metric TLV Format

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

5.3.2.5.  Shared Risk Link Group TLV

2.3 ("Shared Risk Link Group Information")

The Shared Risk Link Group (SRLG) TLV carries the Shared Risk Link Group information (see
Section
). It contains a data structure
consisting of a (variable) list of SRLG values, where each element in the list has 4 octets, as shown
in Figure 22. The length of this TLV is 4 * (number of SRLG values).

[RFC4202]

 of

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                  Shared Risk Link Group Value                 |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                         ............                        //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                  Shared Risk Link Group Value                 |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 22: Shared Risk Link Group TLV Format

The SRLG TLV for OSPF-TE is defined in
two different TLVs: the GMPLS-SRLG TLV (for IPv4) (Type 138) defined in
[RFC6119]
SRLG TLV (Type 139) defined in
single TLV.

[RFC4203]

. In IS-IS, the SRLG information is carried in

[RFC5307]

 and the IPv6

. Both IPv4 and IPv6 SRLG information is carried in a

5.3.2.6.  Opaque Link Attribute TLV

The Opaque Link Attribute TLV is an envelope that transparently carries optional Link Attribute
TLVs advertised by a router. An originating router shall use this TLV for encoding information
specific to the protocol advertised in the NLRI header Protocol-ID field or new protocol
extensions to the protocol as advertised in the NLRI header Protocol-ID field for which there is no
protocol-neutral representation in the BGP Link-State NLRI. The primary use of the Opaque Link
Attribute TLV is to bridge the document lag between a new IGP link-state attribute and its
'protocol-neutral' BGP-LS extension being defined. Once the protocol-neutral BGP-LS extensions
are defined, the BGP-LS implementations may still need to advertise the information both within
the Opaque Attribute TLV and the new TLV definition for incremental deployment and
transition.

In the case of OSPFv2, this TLV
other than those in the OSPFv2 Extended Link Opaque LSA
TLV
LSA

. In the case of OSPFv3, this
 be used to advertise TLVs other than those in the OSPFv3 E-Router-LSA or E-Link-
MUST NOT
[RFC8362]
.

 be used to advertise information carried using TLVs

[RFC7684]

MUST NOT

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                Opaque Link Attributes (variable)            //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 23: Opaque Link Attribute TLV Format

5.3.2.7.  Link Name TLV

The Link Name TLV is optional. The Value field identifies the symbolic name of the router link.
This symbolic name can be the FQDN for the link, a substring of the FQDN, or any string that an
operator wants to use for the link. The use of the FQDN or a substring of it is strongly
RECOMMENDED

. The maximum length of the Link Name TLV is 255 octets.

The Value field is encoded in 7-bit ASCII. If a user interface for configuring or displaying this field
permits Unicode characters, then the user interface is responsible for applying the ToASCII and/
 to achieve the correct format for transmission
or ToUnicode algorithm as described in
or display.

[RFC5890]

How a router derives and injects link names is outside of the scope of this document.

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                     Link Name (variable)                    //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 24: Link Name TLV Format

5.3.3.  Prefix Attribute TLVs

Prefixes are learned from the IGP topology (IS-IS or OSPF) with a set of IGP attributes (such as
metric, route tags, etc.) that are advertised in the BGP-LS Attribute with Prefix NLRI types 3 and
4.

The following Prefix Attribute TLVs are defined for the BGP-LS Attribute associated with a Prefix
NLRI:

TLV Code Point Description

Length

Reference

1152

IGP Flags

1

Section 5.3.3.1

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

TLV Code Point Description

Length

Reference

1153

1154

1155

1156

1157

IGP Route Tag

4*n

[RFC5130]

IGP Extended Route Tag

8*n

[RFC5130]

Prefix Metric

OSPF Forwarding Address

4

4

[RFC5305]

[RFC2328]

Opaque Prefix Attribute

variable

Section 5.3.3.6

Table 10: Prefix Attribute TLVs

5.3.3.1.  IGP Flags TLV

The IGP Flags TLV contains one octet of IS-IS and OSPF flags and bits originally assigned to the
prefix. The IGP Flags TLV is encoded as follows:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |D|N|L|P|       |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 25: IGP Flag TLV Format

The Value field contains bits defined according to the table below:

Bit Description

Reference

'D'

IS-IS Up/Down Bit

[RFC5305]

'N'

OSPF "no unicast" Bit

[RFC5340]

'L'

'P'

OSPF "local address" Bit

[RFC5340]

OSPF "propagate NSSA" Bit

[RFC5340]

Table 11: IGP Flag Bits Definitions

The bits that are not defined
receiver.

MUST

 be set to 0 by the originator and

MUST

 be ignored by the

5.3.3.2.  IGP Route Tag TLV

The IGP Route Tag TLV carries original IGP Tags (IS-IS
encoded as follows:

[RFC5130]

 or OSPF) of the prefix and is

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                    Route Tags (one or more)                 //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 26: IGP Route Tag TLV Format

The length is a multiple of 4.

The Value field contains one or more Route Tags as learned in the IGP topology.

5.3.3.3.  IGP Extended Route Tag TLV

The IGP Extended Route Tag TLV carries IS-IS Extended Route Tags of the prefix
encoded as follows:

[RFC5130]

 and is

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                Extended Route Tag (one or more)             //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 27: IGP Extended Route Tag TLV Format

The length is a multiple of 8.

The Extended Route Tag field contains one or more Extended Route Tags as learned in the IGP
topology.

5.3.3.4.  Prefix Metric TLV

The Prefix Metric TLV is an optional attribute and may only appear once. If present, it carries the
metric of the prefix as known in the IGP topology, as described in
therefore represents the reachability cost to the prefix). If not present, it means that the prefix is
advertised without any reachability.

Section 4 of [RFC5305]

 (and

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |                            Metric                             |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 28: Prefix Metric TLV Format

The length is 4.

5.3.3.5.  OSPF Forwarding Address TLV

The OSPF Forwarding Address TLV
known in the original OSPF advertisement. The forwarding address can be either IPv4 or IPv6.

 carries the OSPF forwarding address as

[RFC2328] [RFC5340]

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //                Forwarding Address (variable)                //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 29: OSPF Forwarding Address TLV Format

The length is 4 for an IPv4 forwarding address and 16 for an IPv6 forwarding address.

5.3.3.6.  Opaque Prefix Attribute TLV

The Opaque Prefix Attribute TLV is an envelope that transparently carries optional Prefix
Attribute TLVs advertised by a router. An originating router shall use this TLV for encoding
information specific to the protocol advertised in the NLRI header Protocol-ID field or it shall use
new protocol extensions for the protocol as advertised in the NLRI header Protocol-ID field for
which there is no protocol-neutral representation in the BGP Link-State NLRI. The primary use of
the Opaque Prefix Attribute TLV is to bridge the document lag between a new IGP link-state
attribute and its protocol-neutral BGP-LS extension being defined. Once the protocol-neutral
BGP-LS extensions are defined, the BGP-LS implementations may still need to advertise the
information both within the Opaque Attribute TLV and the new TLV definition for incremental
deployment and transition.

In the case of OSPFv2, this TLV
other than those in the OSPFv2 Extended Prefix Opaque LSA
this TLV
LSA, E-Intra-Area-Prefix-LSA, E-AS-External-LSA, and E-NSSA-LSA

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

 be used to advertise information carried using TLVs
. In the case of OSPFv3,

[RFC7684]

 be used to advertise TLVs other than those in the OSPFv3 E-Inter-Area-Prefix-

[RFC8362]
.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

The format of the TLV is as follows:

   0                   1                   2                   3
   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  |              Type             |             Length            |
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  //              Opaque Prefix Attributes  (variable)           //
  +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 30: Opaque Prefix Attribute TLV Format

The Type is as specified in Table 10. The length is variable.

5.4.  Private Use

TLVs for Vendor Private Use are supported using the code point range reserved as indicated in
Section 7. For such TLV use in the NLRI or BGP-LS Attribute, the format described in Section 5.1 is
to be used and a 4-octet field
Enterprise Code. For a private use NLRI type, a 4-octet field
the NLRI immediately following the Total NLRI Length field of the Link-State NLRI format as
described in Section 5.2 to carry the Enterprise Code
specific extensions without conflicts.

 be included as the first field in the value to carry the

. This enables the use of vendor-

 be included as the first field in

[ENTNUM]

MUST

MUST

Multiple instances of private-use TLVs

MAY

 appear in the BGP-LS Attribute.

5.5.  BGP Next-Hop Information

SHOULD

SHOULD

 be an IPv4 address. Similarly, if an IPv6 BGP session is used, then the
 be an IPv6 address. Usually, the next hop will be set to

BGP link-state information for both IPv4 and IPv6 networks can be carried over either an IPv4
BGP session or an IPv6 BGP session. If an IPv4 BGP session is used, then the next hop in the
MP_REACH_NLRI
next hop in the MP_REACH_NLRI
the local endpoint address of the BGP session. The next-hop address
described in
address family. If the next-hop length is 4, then the next hop is an IPv4 address; if the next-hop
length is 16, then it is a global IPv6 address; and if the next-hop length is 32, then there is one
global IPv6 address followed by an IPv6 link-local address. The IPv6 link-local address should be
used as described in
custom, an 8-byte Route Distinguisher set to all zero is prepended to the next hop.

. The Length field of the next-hop address will specify the next-hop

. For VPN Subsequent Address Family Identifier (SAFI), as per

 be encoded as

[RFC2545]

[RFC4760]

MUST

The BGP Next-Hop is used by each BGP-LS Speaker to validate the NLRI it receives. In case
identical NLRIs are sourced by multiple BGP-LS Producers, the BGP Next-Hop is used to tiebreak
as per the standard BGP path decision process. This specification doesn't mandate any rule
regarding the rewrite of the BGP Next-Hop.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

5.6.  Inter-AS Links

The main source of TE information is the IGP, which is not active on inter-AS links. In some cases,
the IGP may have information of inter-AS links
implementation
mechanism used to advertise the inter-AS links is outside the scope of this document.

. In other cases, an
 provide a means to inject inter-AS links into BGP-LS. The exact

[RFC5392] [RFC9346]

SHOULD

5.7.  OSPF Virtual Links and Sham Links

[RFC2328] [RFC5340]

 network, OSPF virtual links serve to connect physically separate

In an OSPF
components of the backbone to establish/maintain continuity of the backbone area. While OSPF
virtual links are modeled as point-to-point, unnumbered links in the OSPF topology, their
characteristics and purpose are different from other types of links in the OSPF topology. They are
advertised using a distinct "virtual link" type in OSPF LSAs. The mechanism for the
advertisement of OSPF virtual links via BGP-LS is outside the scope of this document.

[RFC4577] [RFC6565]

In an OSPF network, sham links
between VPN Routing and Forwarding (VRF) instances on Provider Edge (PE) routers over the
VPN provider's network. These links are advertised in OSPF as point-to-point, unnumbered links
and represent connectivity over a service provider network using encapsulation mechanisms
like MPLS. As such, the mechanism for the advertisement of OSPF sham links follows the same
procedures as other point-to-point, unnumbered links as described previously in this document.

 are used to provide intra-area connectivity

5.8.  OSPFv2 Type 4 Summary-LSA & OSPFv3 Inter-Area-Router-LSA

[RFC2328]

 defines the type 4 summary-LSA and OSPFv3

OSPFv2
router-LSA for an Area Border Router (ABR) to advertise reachability to an AS Border Router
(ASBR) that is external to the area yet internal to the AS. The nature of information advertised by
OSPF using this type of LSA does not map to either a node, a link, or a prefix as discussed in this
document. Therefore, the mechanism for the advertisement of the information carried by these
LSAs is outside the scope of this document.

 defines the inter-area-

[RFC5340]

5.9.  Handling of Unreachable IGP Nodes

Consider an OSPF network as shown in Figure 31, where R2 and R3 are the BGP-LS Producers
and also the OSPF Area Border Routers (ABRs). The link between R2 and R3 is in area 0, while the
other links are in area 1 as indicated by the a0 and a1 references respectively against the links.

A BGP-LS Consumer talks to BGP route reflector RR0, which is a BGP-LS Propagator that is
aggregating the BGP-LS feed from BGP-LS Producers R2 and R3. Here, R2 and R3 provide a
redundant topology feed via BGP-LS to RR0. Normally, RR0 would receive two identical copies of
all the Link-State NLRIs from both R2 and R3 and it would pick one of them (say R2) based on the
standard BGP Decision Process.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

                  BGP-LS Consumer
                         ^
                         |
                        RR0
                 (BGP Route Reflector)
                      /      \
                     /        \
              a1    /   a0     \    a1
         R1 ------ R2 -------- R3 ------ R4
     a1  |                               |  a1
         |                               |
         R5 ---------------------------- R6
                        a1

Figure 31: Incorrect Reporting Due to BGP Path Selection

Consider a scenario where the link between R5 and R6 is lost (thereby partitioning the area 1),
and consider its impact on the OSPF LSDB at R2 and R3.

Now, R5 will remove the link R5-R6 from its Router LSA, and this updated LSA is available at R2.
R2 also has a stale copy of R6's Router LSA that still has the link R6-R5 in it. Based on this view in
its LSDB, R2 will advertise only the half-link R6-R5 that it derives from R6's stale Router LSA.

At the same time, R6 has removed the link R6-R5 from its Router LSA, and this updated LSA is
available at R3. Similarly, R3 also has a stale copy of R5's Router LSA having the link R5-R6 in it.
Based on its LSDB, R3 will advertise only the half-link R5-R6 that it derives from R5's stale Router
LSA.

Now, the BGP-LS Consumer receives both the Link NLRIs corresponding to the half-links from R2
and R3 via RR0. When viewed together, it would not detect or realize that area 1 is partitioned.
Also, if R2 continues to report Node and Prefix NLRIs corresponding to the stale copy of R4's and
R6's Router LSAs, then RR0 could prefer them over the valid Node and Prefix NLRIs for R4 and R6
that it is receiving from R3 depending on RR0's BGP Decision Process. This would result in the
BGP-LS Consumer getting stale and inaccurate topology information. This problem scenario is
avoided if R2 were to not advertise the link-state information corresponding to R4 and R6 and if
R3 were to not advertise similarly for R1 and R5.

MAY

SHOULD

 continue to advertise link-state objects corresponding to

 withdraw all link-state objects advertised by it in BGP when the node

A BGP-LS Producer
that originated its corresponding LSPs/LSAs is determined to have become unreachable in the
IGP. An implementation
unreachable nodes in a deployment use case where the BGP-LS Consumer is interested in
receiving a topology feed corresponding to a complete IGP LSDB view. In such deployments, it is
expected that the problem described above is mitigated by the BGP-LS Consumer via appropriate
handling of such a topology feed in addition to the use of either a direct BGP peering with the
BGP-LS Producer nodes or mechanisms such as those described in
 when using RRs.
Details of these mechanisms are outside the scope of this document.

[RFC7911]

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

If the BGP-LS Producer does withdraw link-state objects associated with an IGP node based on
the failure of reachability check for that node, then it
MUST
after that node becomes reachable again in the IGP domain.

 re-advertise those link-state objects

5.10.  Router-ID Anchoring Example: ISO Pseudonode

The encoding of a broadcast LAN in IS-IS provides a good example of how Router-IDs are
encoded. Consider Figure 32. This represents a broadcast LAN between a pair of routers. The
"real" (non-pseudonode) routers have both an IPv4 Router-ID and an IS-IS Node-ID. The
pseudonode does not have an IPv4 Router-ID. Node1 is the DIS for the LAN. Two unidirectional
links, (Node1, Pseudonode1) and (Pseudonode1, Node2), are being generated.

The Link NLRI of (Node1, Pseudonode1) is encoded as follows. The IGP Router-ID TLV of the local
Node Descriptor is 6 octets long and contains the ISO-ID of Node1, 1920.0000.2001. The IGP
Router-ID TLV of the remote Node Descriptor is 7 octets long and contains the ISO-ID of
Pseudonode1, 1920.0000.2001.02. The BGP-LS Attribute of this link contains one local IPv4
Router-ID TLV (TLV type 1028) containing 192.0.2.1, the IPv4 Router-ID of Node1.

The Link NLRI of (Pseudonode1, Node2) is encoded as follows. The IGP Router-ID TLV of the local
Node Descriptor is 7 octets long and contains the ISO-ID of Pseudonode1, 1920.0000.2001.02. The
IGP Router-ID TLV of the remote Node Descriptor is 6 octets long and contains the ISO-ID of
Node2, 1920.0000.2002. The BGP-LS Attribute of this link contains one remote IPv4 Router-ID TLV
(TLV type 1030) containing 192.0.2.2, the IPv4 Router-ID of Node2.

  +-----------------+    +-----------------+    +-----------------+
  |      Node1      |    |   Pseudonode1   |    |      Node2      |
  |1920.0000.2001.00|--->|1920.0000.2001.02|--->|1920.0000.2002.00|
  |     192.0.2.1   |    |                 |    |     192.0.2.2   |
  +-----------------+    +-----------------+    +-----------------+

Figure 32: IS-IS Pseudonodes

5.11.  Router-ID Anchoring Example: OSPF Pseudonode

The encoding of a broadcast LAN in OSPF provides a good example of how Router-IDs and local
Interface IPs are encoded. Consider Figure 33. This represents a broadcast LAN between a pair of
routers. The "real" (non-pseudonode) routers have both an IPv4 Router-ID and an Area Identifier.
The pseudonode does have an IPv4 Router-ID, an IPv4 Interface Address (for disambiguation),
and an OSPF Area. Node1 is the DR for the LAN; hence, its local IP address 198.51.100.1 is used as
both the Router-ID and Interface IP for the pseudonode keys. Two unidirectional links, (Node1,
Pseudonode1) and (Pseudonode1, Node2), are being generated.

The Link NLRI of (Node1, Pseudonode1) is encoded as follows:

•

Local Node Descriptor

TLV #515:

IGP Router-ID: 192.0.2.1

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

TLV #514:

OSPF Area-ID: ID:0.0.0.0

•

Remote Node Descriptor

TLV #515:

IGP Router-ID: 192.0.2.1:198.51.100.1

TLV #514:

OSPF Area-ID: ID:0.0.0.0

The Link NLRI of (Pseudonode1, Node2) is encoded as follows:

•

Local Node Descriptor

TLV #515:

IGP Router-ID: 192.0.2.1:198.51.100.1

TLV #514:

OSPF Area-ID: ID:0.0.0.0

•

Remote Node Descriptor

TLV #515:

IGP Router-ID: 192.0.2.2

TLV #514:

OSPF Area-ID: ID:0.0.0.0

     198.51.100.1/24             198.51.100.2/24
+-------------+    +-------------+    +-------------+
|   Node1     |    | Pseudonode1 |    |    Node2    |
|  192.0.2.1  |--->|  192.0.2.1  |--->|  192.0.2.2  |
|             |    |198.51.100.1 |    |             |
|   Area 0    |    |   Area 0    |    |    Area 0   |
+-------------+    +-------------+    +-------------+

Figure 33: OSPF Pseudonodes

The LAN subnet 198.51.100.0/24 is not included in the Router LSA of Node1 or Node2. The
Network LSA for this LAN advertised by the DR Node1 contains the subnet mask for the LAN
along with the DR address. A Prefix NLRI corresponding to the LAN subnet is advertised with the
Pseudonode1 used as the local node using the DR address and the subnet mask from the Network
LSA.

5.12.  Router-ID Anchoring Example: OSPFv2 to IS-IS Migration

Graceful migration from one IGP to another requires coordinated operation of both protocols
during the migration period. Such coordination requires identifying a given physical link in both
IGPs. The IPv4 Router-ID provides that "glue", which is present in the Node Descriptors of the
OSPF Link NLRI and in the link attribute of the IS-IS Link NLRI.

Consider a point-to-point link between two routers, A and B, which initially were OSPFv2-only
routers and then had IS-IS enabled on them. Node A has IPv4 Router-ID and ISO-ID; node B has
IPv4 Router-ID, IPv6 Router-ID, and ISO-ID. Each protocol generates one Link NLRI for the link (A,
B), both of which are carried by BGP-LS. The OSPFv2 Link NLRI for the link is encoded with the
IPv4 Router-ID of nodes A and B in the local and remote Node Descriptors, respectively. The IS-IS
Link NLRI for the link is encoded with the ISO-ID of nodes A and B in the local and remote Node

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

Descriptors, respectively. In addition, the BGP-LS Attribute of the IS-IS Link NLRI contains the
TLV type 1028 containing the IPv4 Router-ID of node A, TLV type 1030 containing the IPv4
Router-ID of node B, and TLV type 1031 containing the IPv6 Router-ID of node B. In this case, by
using IPv4 Router-ID, the link (A, B) can be identified in both the IS-IS and OSPF protocols.

6.  Link to Path Aggregation

Distribution of all links available on the global Internet is certainly possible; however, it is not
desirable from a scaling and privacy point of view. Therefore, an implementation may support a
link to path aggregation. Rather than advertising all specific links of a domain, an ASBR may
advertise an "aggregate link" between a non-adjacent pair of nodes. The "aggregate link"
represents the aggregated set of link properties between a pair of non-adjacent nodes. The actual
methods to compute the path properties (of bandwidth, metric, etc.) are outside the scope of this
document. The decision of whether to advertise all specific links or aggregated links is an
operator's policy choice. To highlight the varying levels of exposure, the following deployment
examples are discussed.

6.1.  Example: No Link Aggregation

Consider Figure 34. Both AS1 and AS2 operators want to protect their inter-AS {R1, R3}, {R2, R4}
links using RSVP - Fast Reroute (RSVP-FRR) LSPs. If R1 wants to compute its link-protection LSP to
R3, it needs to "see" an alternate path to R3. Therefore, the AS2 operator exposes its topology. All
BGP-TE-enabled routers in AS1 "see" the full topology of AS2 and therefore can compute a
backup path. Note that the computing router decides if the direct link between {R3, R4} or the
{R4, R5, R3} path is used.

       AS1   :   AS2
             :
        R1-------R3
         |   :   | \
         |   :   |  R5
         |   :   | /
        R2-------R4
             :
             :

Figure 34: No Link Aggregation

6.2.  Example: ASBR to ASBR Path Aggregation

The brief difference between the "no-link aggregation" example and this example is that no
specific link gets exposed. Consider Figure 35. The only link that gets advertised by AS2 is an
"aggregate" link between R3 and R4. This is enough to tell AS1 that there is a backup path.
However, the actual links being used are hidden from the topology.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

       AS1   :   AS2
             :
        R1-------R3
         |   :   |
         |   :   |
         |   :   |
        R2-------R4
             :
             :

Figure 35: ASBR Link Aggregation

6.3.  Example: Multi-AS Path Aggregation

Service providers in control of multiple ASes may even decide to not expose their internal inter-
AS links. Consider Figure 36. AS3 is modeled as a single node that connects to the border routers
of the aggregated domain.

       AS1   :   AS2   :   AS3
             :         :
        R1-------R3-----
         |   :         : \
         |   :         :   vR0
         |   :         : /
        R2-------R4-----
             :         :
             :         :

Figure 36: Multi-AS Aggregation

7.  IANA Considerations

As this document obsoletes
 and
information that references those documents to instead reference this document.

, IANA has updated all registration

[RFC7752]

[RFC9029]

IANA has assigned address family number 16388 (BGP-LS) in the "Address Family Numbers"
registry.

IANA has assigned SAFI values 71 (BGP-LS) and 72 (BGP-LS-VPN) in the "SAFI Values" registry
under the "Subsequent Address Family Identifiers (SAFI) Parameters" registry group.

IANA has assigned value 29 (BGP-LS Attribute) in the "BGP Path Attributes" registry under the
"Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Parameters" registry group.

IANA has created a "Border Gateway Protocol - Link-State (BGP-LS) Parameters" registry group at
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/bgp-ls-parameters>
.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

This section also incorporates all the changes to the allocation procedures for the BGP-LS IANA
registry group as well as the guidelines for designated experts introduced by

[RFC9029]
.

7.1.  BGP-LS Registries

All of the registries listed in the following subsections are specific to BGP-LS and are accessible
under this registry.

7.1.1.  BGP-LS NLRI Types Registry

The "BGP-LS NLRI Types" registry has been set up for assignment for the two-octet-sized code
points for BGP-LS NLRI types and populated with the values shown below:

Type

NLRI Type

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

Reserved

Node NLRI

Link NLRI

RFC 9552

RFC 9552

RFC 9552

IPv4 Topology Prefix NLRI

RFC 9552

IPv6 Topology Prefix NLRI

RFC 9552

65000-65535

Private Use

RFC 9552

Table 12: BGP-LS NLRI Types

A range is reserved for Private Use
made using the "Expert Review" policy
proposed use of the allocated value and approval by the designated expert assigned by the IESG.

. All other allocations within the registry are to be

, which requires documentation of the

[RFC8126]

[RFC8126]

7.1.2.  BGP-LS Protocol-IDs Registry

The "BGP-LS Protocol-IDs" registry has been set up for assignment for the one-octet-sized code
points for BGP-LS Protocol-IDs and populated with the values shown below:

Protocol-ID NLRI information source protocol

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

Reserved

IS-IS Level 1

IS-IS Level 2

OSPFv2

Direct

RFC 9552

RFC 9552

RFC 9552

RFC 9552

RFC 9552

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

Protocol-ID NLRI information source protocol

Reference

5

6

Static configuration

OSPFv3

200-255

Private Use

Table 13: BGP-LS Protocol-IDs

RFC 9552

RFC 9552

RFC 9552

A range is reserved for Private Use
made using the "Expert Review" policy
proposed use of the allocated value and approval by the designated expert assigned by the IESG.

. All other allocations within the registry are to be

, which requires documentation of the

[RFC8126]

[RFC8126]

7.1.3.  BGP-LS Well-Known Instance-IDs Registry

The "BGP-LS Well-Known Instance-IDs" registry that was set up via
required. IANA has marked this registry obsolete and changed its registration procedure to
"registry closed".

 is no longer

[RFC7752]

7.1.4.  BGP-LS Node Flags Registry

The "BGP-LS Node Flags" registry has been created for the one-octet-sized flags field of the Node
Flag Bits TLV (1024) and populated with the initial values shown below:

Bit Description

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

5

Overload Bit (O-bit)

RFC 9552

Attached Bit (A-bit)

RFC 9552

External Bit (E-bit)

RFC 9552

ABR Bit (B-bit)

RFC 9552

Router Bit (R-bit)

RFC 9552

V6 Bit (V-bit)

RFC 9552

6-7

Unassigned

Table 14: BGP-LS Node Flags

Allocations within the registry are to be made using the "Expert Review" policy
requires documentation of the proposed use of the allocated value and approval by the
designated expert assigned by the IESG.

[RFC8126]

, which

7.1.5.  BGP-LS MPLS Protocol Mask Registry

The "BGP-LS MPLS Protocol Mask" registry has been created for the one-octet-sized flags field of
the MPLS Protocol Mask TLV (1094) and populated with the initial values shown below:

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

Bit Description

Reference

0

1

Label Distribution Protocol (L-bit)

RFC 9552

Extension to RSVP for LSP Tunnels (R-bit)

RFC 9552

2-7

Unassigned

Table 15: BGP-LS MPLS Protocol Mask

Allocations within the registry are to be made using the "Expert Review" policy
requires documentation of the proposed use of the allocated value and approval by the
designated expert assigned by the IESG.

[RFC8126]

, which

7.1.6.  BGP-LS IGP Prefix Flags Registry

The "BGP-LS IGP Prefix Flags" registry has been created for the one-octet-sized flags field of the
IGP Flags TLV (1152) and populated with the initial values shown below:

Bit Description

Reference

0

1

2

3

IS-IS Up/Down Bit (D-bit)

RFC 9552

OSPF "no unicast" Bit (N-bit)

RFC 9552

OSPF "local address" Bit (L-bit)

RFC 9552

OSPF "propagate NSSA" Bit (P-bit)

RFC 9552

4-7

Unassigned

Table 16: BGP-LS IGP Prefix Flags

Allocations within the registry are to be made using the "Expert Review" policy
requires documentation of the proposed use of the allocated value and approval by the
designated expert assigned by the IESG.

[RFC8126]

, which

7.1.7.  BGP-LS TLVs Registry

The "BGP-LS Node Descriptor, Link Descriptor, Prefix Descriptor, and Attribute TLVs" registry
was created via
and Attribute TLVs" and removed the column for "IS-IS TLV/Sub-TLV". The registration
procedures are as follows:

. Per this document, IANA has renamed that registry to "BGP-LS NLRI

[RFC7752]

TLV Code Point

Registration Process

0-255

Reserved (not to be allocated)

256-64999

Expert Review

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

TLV Code Point

Registration Process

65000-65535

Private Use

Table 17: BGP-LS TLVs Registration Process

A range is reserved for Private Use
within the registry are to be made using the "Expert Review" policy
documentation of the proposed use of the allocated value and approval by the designated expert
assigned by the IESG.

. All other allocations except for the reserved range

, which requires

[RFC8126]

[RFC8126]

The registry was pre-populated with the values shown in Table 18, and the reference for each
allocation has been changed to this document and the respective section where those TLVs are
specified.

7.2.  Guidance for Designated Experts

In all cases of review by the designated expert described here, the designated expert is expected
to check the clarity of purpose and use of the requested code points. The following points apply
to the registries discussed in this document:

1.

MUST

Application for a code point allocation may be made to the designated experts at any time
and
Such documentation
any form that can be reviewed and exchanged among reviewers.

 be accompanied by technical documentation explaining the use of the code point.

 be presented in the form of an Internet-Draft but

SHOULD

MAY

 arrive in

2.

SHOULD

The designated experts
have already been accepted as working group documents or that are planned for
progression as AD-Sponsored documents in the absence of a suitably chartered working
group.

 only consider requests that arise from Internet-Drafts that

3.

In the case of working group documents, the designated experts
working group chairs that there is a consensus within the working group to allocate at this
 check with the
time. In the case of AD-Sponsored documents, the designated experts
AD for approval to allocate at this time.

 check with the

MUST

MUST

4.

MUST

 notify the IDR mailing list (or its successor) of the request and

If the document is not adopted by the IDR Working Group (or its successor), the designated
expert
access to the document. The designated expert
comments received
MUST
step.

 allow two weeks for any response. Any
 be considered by the designated expert as part of the subsequent

 provide

MUST

MUST

5.

MUST

The designated experts
The designated experts
 raise issues related to the allocation request with the authors
and on the IDR (or successor) mailing list for further consideration before the assignments
are made.

 then review the assignment requests on their technical merit.

MAY

6.

The designated expert
work that is active or already published within the IETF.

MUST

 ensure that any request for a code point does not conflict with

7.

Once the designated experts have approved, IANA will update the registry by marking the
allocated code points with a reference to the associated document.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

8.

In the event that the document is a working group document or is AD-Sponsored and fails to
progress to publication as an RFC, the working group chairs or AD
coordinate about marking the code points as deprecated. A deprecated code point is not
marked as allocated for use and is not available for allocation in a future document. The WG
chairs may inform IANA that a deprecated code point can be completely deallocated (i.e.,
made available for new allocations) at any time after it has been deprecated if there is a
shortage of unallocated code points in the registry.

 contact IANA to

SHOULD

8.  Manageability Considerations

This section is structured as recommended in

[RFC5706]
.

8.1.  Operational Considerations

8.1.1.  Operations

Existing BGP operational procedures apply. No new operation procedures are defined in this
document. It is noted that the NLRI information present in this document carries purely
application-level data that has no immediate impact on the corresponding forwarding state
computed by BGP. As such, any churn in reachability information has a different impact than
regular BGP updates, which need to change the forwarding state for an entire router.
Distribution of the BGP-LS NLRIs
deployments providing a level of isolation and fault containment between different BGP address
families. In the event of dedicated route reflectors not being available, other alternate
mechanisms like separation of BGP instances or separate BGP sessions (e.g., using different
addresses for peering) for Link-State information distribution

 be handled by dedicated route reflectors in most

 be used.

SHOULD

SHOULD

RECOMMENDED

 that operators deploying BGP-LS enable two or more BGP-LS Producers in

It is
each IGP flooding domain to achieve redundancy in the origination of link-state information into
BGP-LS. It is also
redundancy in the BGP update propagation paths (e.g., using at least a pair of route reflectors)
and ensure that BGP-LS Consumers are receiving the topology information from at least two
BGP-LS Speakers.

 that operators ensure BGP peering designs that ensure

RECOMMENDED

In a multi-domain IGP network, the correct provisioning of the BGP-LS Instance-IDs on the BGP-
LS Producers is required for consistent reporting of the multi-domain link-state topology. Refer to
Section 5.2 for more details.

8.1.2.  Installation and Initial Setup

Configuration parameters defined in Section 8.2.3
values:

SHOULD

 be initialized to the following default

•

The Link-State NLRI capability is turned off for all neighbors.

•

The maximum rate at which Link-State NLRIs will be advertised/withdrawn from neighbors
is set to 200 updates per second.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

8.1.3.  Migration Path

The proposed extension is only activated between BGP peers after capability negotiation.
Moreover, the extensions can be turned on/off on an individual peer basis (see Section 8.2.3), so
the extension can be gradually rolled out in the network.

8.1.4.  Requirements for Other Protocols and Functional Components

The protocol extension defined in this document does not put new requirements on other
protocols or functional components.

8.1.5.  Impact on Network Operation

The frequency of Link-State NLRI updates could interfere with regular BGP prefix distribution. A
network operator should use a dedicated route reflector infrastructure to distribute Link-State
NLRIs as discussed in Section 8.1.1.

Distribution of Link-State NLRIs
of multiple areas within an AS or multiple ASes.

SHOULD

 be limited to a single admin domain, which can consist

8.1.6.  Verifying Correct Operation

Existing BGP procedures apply. In addition, an implementation

SHOULD

 allow an operator to:

•

List neighbors with whom the speaker is exchanging Link-State NLRIs.

8.2.  Management Considerations

8.2.1.  Management Information

The IDR Working Group has documented and continues to document parts of the Management
Information Base and YANG models for managing and monitoring BGP Speakers and the sessions
between them. It is currently believed that the BGP session running BGP-LS is not substantially
different from any other BGP session and can be managed using the same data models.

8.2.2.  Fault Management

This section describes the fault management actions, as described in
performed for the handling of BGP UPDATE messages for BGP-LS.

[RFC7606]

, that are to be

A Link-State NLRI
exclusion of TLVs or contents of the TLV fields (i.e., semantic errors), as described in Sections 5.1
and 5.2.

 be considered malformed or invalid based on the inclusion/

MUST NOT

A BGP-LS Speaker
determine if it is malformed.

MUST

 perform the following syntactic validation of the Link-State NLRI to

•

The sum of all TLV lengths found in the BGP MP_REACH_NLRI attribute corresponds to the
BGP MP_REACH_NLRI length.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

•

The sum of all TLV lengths found in the BGP MP_UNREACH_NLRI attribute corresponds to
the BGP MP_UNREACH_NLRI length.

•

The sum of all TLV lengths found in a Link-State NLRI corresponds to the Total NLRI Length
field of all its descriptors.

•

The length of the TLVs and, when the TLV is recognized then, the length of its sub-TLVs in the
NLRI are valid.

•

The syntactic correctness of the NLRI fields has been verified as per

[RFC7606]

.

•

The rule regarding the ordering of TLVs has been followed as described in Section 5.1.

•

For NLRIs carrying either a Local or Remote Node Descriptor TLV, there is not more than one
instance of a sub-TLV present.

MUST

When the error that is determined allows for the router to skip the malformed NLRI(s) and
continue the processing of the rest of the BGP UPDATE message (e.g., when the TLV ordering rule
is violated), then it
 handle such malformed NLRIs as 'NLRI discard' (i.e., processing similar
to what is described in
encoding results in the inability to process the BGP UPDATE message (e.g., length-related
encoding errors), then the router
when other AFI/SAFI besides BGP-LS are being advertised over the same session. Alternately, the
router
SAFI disable' action is not possible.

 perform a 'session reset' when the session is only being used for BGP-LS or if 'AFI/

 handle such malformed NLRIs as 'AFI/SAFI disable'

). In other cases, where the error in the NLRI

Section 5.4 of [RFC7606]

SHOULD

MUST

A BGP-LS Attribute
exclusion of TLVs or contents of the TLV fields (i.e., semantic errors), as described in Sections 5.1
and 5.3.

 be considered malformed or invalid based on the inclusion/

MUST NOT

A BGP-LS Speaker
determine if it is malformed.

MUST

 perform the following syntactic validation of the BGP-LS Attribute to

•

The sum of all TLV lengths found in the BGP-LS Attribute corresponds to the BGP-LS
Attribute length.

•

The syntactic correctness of the Attributes (including the BGP-LS Attribute) have been
verified as per

[RFC7606]

.

•

The length of each TLV and, when the TLV is recognized then, the length of its sub-TLVs in
the BGP-LS Attribute are valid.

When the error that is determined allows for the router to skip the malformed BGP-LS Attribute
and continue the processing of the rest of the BGP UPDATE message (e.g., when the BGP-LS
Attribute length and the total Path Attribute Length are correct but some TLV/sub-TLV length
within the BGP-LS Attribute is invalid), then it
 handle such malformed BGP-LS Attribute as
MUST
'Attribute Discard'. In other cases, where the error in the BGP-LS Attribute encoding results in the
inability to process the BGP UPDATE message, the handling is the same as described above for
the malformed NLRI.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

Note that the 'Attribute Discard' action results in the loss of all TLVs in the BGP-LS Attribute and
not the removal of a specific malformed TLV. The removal of specific malformed TLVs may give a
wrong indication to a BGP-LS Consumer of that specific information being deleted or not
available.

When a BGP Speaker receives an UPDATE message with Link-State NLRI(s) in the
MP_REACH_NLRI but without the BGP-LS Attribute, it is most likely an indication that a BGP
Speaker preceding it has performed the 'Attribute Discard' fault handling. An implementation
 preserve and propagate the Link-State NLRIs, unless denied by local policy, in such an
SHOULD
UPDATE message so that the BGP-LS Consumers can detect the loss of link-state information for
that object and not assume its deletion/withdrawal. This also makes it possible for a network
operator to trace back to the BGP-LS Propagator that detected the fault with the BGP-LS Attribute.

An implementation
further analysis.

SHOULD

 log a message for any errors found during syntax validation for

A BGP-LS Propagator, even when it has a coexisting BGP-LS Consumer on the same node, should
not perform semantic validation of the Link-State NLRI or the BGP-LS Attribute to determine if it
is malformed or invalid. Some types of semantic validation that are not to be performed by a
BGP-LS Propagator are as follows (and this is not to be considered as an exhaustive list):

•

presence of a mandatory TLV

•

the length of a fixed-length TLV is correct or the length of a variable length TLV is valid or
permissible

•

the values of TLV fields are valid or permissible

•

the inclusion and use of TLVs/sub-TLVs with specific Link-State NLRI types is valid

Each TLV may indicate the valid and permissible values and their semantics that can be used
only by a BGP-LS Consumer for its semantic validation. However, the handling of any errors may
be specific to the particular application and outside the scope of this document.

8.2.3.  Configuration Management

An implementation
will be advertised and from which Link-State NLRIs will be accepted.

SHOULD

 allow the operator to specify neighbors to which Link-State NLRIs

An implementation
NLRIs will be advertised/withdrawn from neighbors.

SHOULD

 allow the operator to specify the maximum rate at which Link-State

An implementation
NLRIs stored in a router's Routing Information Base (RIB).

SHOULD

 allow the operator to specify the maximum number of Link-State

An implementation
advertised to neighbors and create different abstractions for different neighbors.

 allow the operator to create abstracted topologies that are

SHOULD

An implementation
Section 5.2 for guidance to the operator for the configuration of BGP-LS Instance-ID.

 allow the operator to configure an 8-octet BGP-LS Instance-ID. Refer to

MUST

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

An implementation
SHOULD
and BGP-LS identifiers (refer to Section 5.2.1.4).

 allow the operator to configure Autonomous System Number (ASN)

An implementation
 allow the operator to configure a 4096-byte size limit for a BGP-LS
UPDATE message on a BGP-LS Producer or allow larger values when they know that all BGP-LS
Speakers support the extended message size

[RFC8654]
.

SHOULD

8.2.4.  Accounting Management

Not Applicable.

8.2.5.  Performance Management

An implementation

SHOULD

 provide the following statistics:

•

Total number of Link-State NLRI updates sent/received

•

Number of Link-State NLRI updates sent/received, per neighbor

•

Number of errored received Link-State NLRI updates, per neighbor

•

Total number of locally originated Link-State NLRIs

These statistics should be recorded as absolute counts since the system or session start time. An
implementation
case.

 also enhance this information by recording peak per-second counts in each

MAY

8.2.6.  Security Management

An operator

MUST

 define an import policy to limit inbound updates as follows:

•

Drop all updates from peers that are only serving BGP-LS Consumers.

An implementation

MUST

 have the means to limit inbound updates.

9.  TLV/Sub-TLV Code Points Summary

This section contains the global table of all TLVs/sub-TLVs defined in this document.

TLV Code Point Description

Reference Section

256

257

258

259

260

261

Local Node Descriptors

Section 5.2.1.2

Remote Node Descriptors

Section 5.2.1.3

Link Local/Remote Identifiers

Section 5.2.2

IPv4 interface address

Section 5.2.2

IPv4 neighbor address

Section 5.2.2

IPv6 interface address

Section 5.2.2

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

TLV Code Point Description

Reference Section

262

263

264

265

512

513

514

515

1024

1025

1026

1027

1028

1029

1030

1031

1088

1089

1090

1091

1092

1093

1094

1095

IPv6 neighbor address

Section 5.2.2

Multi-Topology Identifier

Section 5.2.2.1

OSPF Route Type

Section 5.2.3.1

IP Reachability Information

Section 5.2.3.2

Autonomous System

Section 5.2.1.4

BGP-LS Identifier (deprecated)

Section 5.2.1.4

OSPF Area-ID

IGP Router-ID

Section 5.2.1.4

Section 5.2.1.4

Node Flag Bits

Section 5.3.1.1

Opaque Node Attribute

Section 5.3.1.5

Node Name

Section 5.3.1.3

IS-IS Area Identifier

Section 5.3.1.2

IPv4 Router-ID of Local Node

Sections 5.3.1.4 and 5.3.2.1

IPv6 Router-ID of Local Node

Sections 5.3.1.4 and 5.3.2.1

IPv4 Router-ID of Remote Node

Section 5.3.2.1

IPv6 Router-ID of Remote Node

Section 5.3.2.1

Administrative group (color)

Section 5.3.2

Maximum link bandwidth

Section 5.3.2

Max. reservable link bandwidth

Section 5.3.2

Unreserved bandwidth

Section 5.3.2

TE Default Metric

Section 5.3.2.3

Link Protection Type

Section 5.3.2

MPLS Protocol Mask

Section 5.3.2.2

IGP Metric

Section 5.3.2.4

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

TLV Code Point Description

Reference Section

1096

1097

1098

1152

1153

1154

1155

1156

1157

Shared Risk Link Group

Section 5.3.2.5

Opaque Link Attribute

Section 5.3.2.6

Link Name

IGP Flags

IGP Route Tag

Section 5.3.2.7

Section 5.3.3.1

Section 5.3.3.2

IGP Extended Route Tag

Section 5.3.3.3

Prefix Metric

Section 5.3.3.4

OSPF Forwarding Address

Section 5.3.3.5

Opaque Prefix Attribute

Section 5.3.3.6

Table 18: Summary Table of TLV/Sub-TLV Code Points

10.  Security Considerations

Procedures and protocol extensions defined in this document do not affect the BGP security
model. See the Security Considerations section of
refer to

 for analysis of security issues for BGP.

 for a discussion of BGP security. Also,

[RFC6952]

[RFC4272]

[RFC4271]

 and

The operator should ensure that a BGP-LS Speaker does not accept UPDATE messages from a peer
that only provides information to a BGP-LS Consumer by using the policy configuration options
discussed in Sections 8.2.3 and 8.2.6. Generally, an operator is aware of the BGP-LS Speaker's role
and link-state peerings. Therefore, the operator can protect the BGP-LS Speaker from peers
sending updates that may represent erroneous information, feedback loops, or false input.

An error or tampering of the link-state information that is originated into BGP-LS and
propagated through the network for use by BGP-LS Consumers applications can result in the
malfunction of those applications. Some examples of such risks are the origination of incorrect
information that is not present or consistent with the IGP LSDB at the BGP-LS Producer, incorrect
ordering of TLVs in the NLRI, or inconsistent origination from multiple BGP-LS Producers and
updates to either the NLRI or BGP-LS Attribute during propagation (including discarding due to
errors). These are not new risks from a BGP protocol perspective; however, in the case of BGP-LS,
impact reflects on the consumer applications instead of BGP routing functionalities.

Additionally, it may be considered that the export of link-state and TE information as described
in this document constitutes a risk to confidentiality of mission-critical or commercially sensitive
information about the network. BGP peerings are not automatic and require configuration; thus,
it is the responsibility of the network operator to ensure that only trusted BGP Speakers are

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

configured to receive such information. Similar security considerations also arise on the
interface between BGP Speakers and BGP-LS Consumers, but their discussion is outside the scope
of this document.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[ENTNUM]

[ISO10589]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2328]

[RFC2545]

[RFC3209]

[RFC4202]

[RFC4203]

[RFC4271]

[RFC4577]

,

IANA "Private Enterprise Numbers (PENs)" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/
enterprise-numbers/>

.

,

,

ISO "Information technology - Telecommunications and information exchange
between systems - Intermediate System to Intermediate System intra-domain
routeing information exchange protocol for use in conjunction with the protocol
for providing the connectionless-mode network service (ISO 8473)" ISO/IEC
10589:2002

, November 2002.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Moy, J. "OSPF Version 2" STD 54 RFC 2328 DOI 10.17487/RFC2328
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2328>

,

,

.

, April 1998,

F. Dupont "Use of BGP-4 Multiprotocol Extensions for IPv6

 and

Marques, P.
Inter-Domain Routing" RFC 2545 DOI 10.17487/RFC2545
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2545>
.

,

,

, March 1999,

<https://

,

G. Swallow "RSVP-TE:
Awduche, D. Berger, L. Gan, D. Li, T. Srinivasan, V.
,
Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels" RFC 3209 DOI 10.17487/RFC3209
December 2001,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3209>

, and

,

,

.

,

,

 and

Kompella, K., Ed.
Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)" RFC 4202 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4202

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4202>

Y. Rekhter, Ed. "Routing Extensions in Support of

, October 2005,

,

,

.

 and

Kompella, K., Ed.
Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)" RFC 4203 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4203

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4203>

Y. Rekhter, Ed. "OSPF Extensions in Support of

, October 2005,

,

,

.

,

Rekhter, Y., Ed. Li, T., Ed.
(BGP-4)" RFC 4271 DOI 10.17487/RFC4271
editor.org/info/rfc4271>

, and

,

,

.

,
, January 2006,

S. Hares, Ed. "A Border Gateway Protocol 4

<https://www.rfc-

Rosen, E. Psenak, P.
,
Protocol for BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" RFC 4577 DOI
10.17487/RFC4577

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4577>

P. Pillay-Esnault "OSPF as the Provider/Customer Edge

, June 2006,

, and

,

,

.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 53

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

[RFC4760]

[RFC4915]

[RFC5036]

[RFC5120]

[RFC5130]

[RFC5301]

[RFC5305]

[RFC5307]

[RFC5340]

[RFC5642]

[RFC5890]

[RFC6119]

[RFC6565]

,

Bates, T. Chandra, R. Katz, D.
,
BGP-4" RFC 4760 DOI 10.17487/RFC4760
editor.org/info/rfc4760>

, and

,

,

.

Y. Rekhter "Multiprotocol Extensions for

,

, January 2007,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Psenak, P. Mirtorabi, S. Roy, A. Nguyen, L.
, and
,
,
Topology (MT) Routing in OSPF" RFC 4915 DOI 10.17487/RFC4915
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4915>
.

,

P. Pillay-Esnault "Multi-

, June 2007,

Andersson, L., Ed. Minei, I., Ed.
5036 DOI 10.17487/RFC5036
,
rfc5036>

.

,

, and

B. Thomas, Ed. "LDP Specification" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

, October 2007,

,

Przygienda, T. Shen, N.
Intermediate System to Intermediate Systems (IS-ISs)" RFC 5120 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5120

N. Sheth "M-ISIS: Multi Topology (MT) Routing in

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5120>

, February 2008,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Previdi, S. Shand, M., Ed.
Using Administrative Tags" RFC 5130 DOI 10.17487/RFC5130
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5130>

C. Martin "A Policy Control Mechanism in IS-IS
, February 2008,

, and
,

,

,

.

 and

McPherson, D.
IS" RFC 5301 DOI 10.17487/RFC5301
,
info/rfc5301>
.

,

N. Shen "Dynamic Hostname Exchange Mechanism for IS-

,

, October 2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

 and

Li, T.
,
10.17487/RFC5305

H. Smit "IS-IS Extensions for Traffic Engineering" RFC 5305 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5305>

, October 2008,

,

,

.

 and

Kompella, K., Ed.
,
Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)" RFC 5307 DOI 10.17487/RFC5307
October 2008,

Y. Rekhter, Ed. "IS-IS Extensions in Support of Generalized
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5307>

.

,

,

Coltun, R. Ferguson, D. Moy, J.
10.17487/RFC5340

,
, July 2008,

,

, and

A. Lindem "OSPF for IPv6" RFC 5340 DOI

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5340>

.

,

Venkata, S. Harwani, S. Pignataro, C.
Exchange Mechanism for OSPF" RFC 5642 DOI 10.17487/RFC5642
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5642>

D. McPherson "Dynamic Hostname
, and
,

, August 2009,

,

,

.

,

Klensin, J. "Internationalized Domain Names for Applications (IDNA):
Definitions and Document Framework" RFC 5890 DOI 10.17487/RFC5890
August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>

,

,

.

,

,

Harrison, J. Berger, J.
6119 DOI 10.17487/RFC6119
,
rfc6119>

, and

.

M. Bartlett "IPv6 Traffic Engineering in IS-IS" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2011,

,

,

,

Pillay-Esnault, P. Moyer, P. Doyle, J. Ertekin, E.
,
Provider Edge to Customer Edge (PE-CE) Routing Protocol" RFC 6565 DOI
10.17487/RFC6565

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6565>

, June 2012,

, and

M. Lundberg "OSPFv3 as a
,

,

,

,

.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 54

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

[RFC7606]

[RFC7684]

[RFC7770]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8362]

[RFC8654]

,

K. Patel "Revised Error
, and
Chen, E., Ed. Scudder, J., Ed. Mohapatra, P.
Handling for BGP UPDATE Messages" RFC 7606 DOI 10.17487/RFC7606
,
2015,
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7606>

,

,

,

, August

,

Psenak, P. Gredler, H. Shakir, R. Henderickx, W. Tantsura, J.
"OSPFv2 Prefix/Link Attribute Advertisement" RFC 7684 DOI 10.17487/RFC7684
,
November 2015,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7684>

A. Lindem

, and

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Lindem, A., Ed. Shen, N. Vasseur, JP. Aggarwal, R.
,
,
OSPF for Advertising Optional Router Capabilities" RFC 7770 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7770

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7770>

, February 2016,

, and
,

S. Shaffer "Extensions to

,

,

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Lindem, A. Roy, A. Goethals, D. Reddy Vallem, V.
State Advertisement (LSA) Extensibility" RFC 8362 DOI 10.17487/RFC8362
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8362>

, and
,

F. Baker "OSPFv3 Link

,

,

,

,

.

, April

Bush, R. Patel, K.
,
, and
DOI 10.17487/RFC8654

,

D. Ward "Extended Message Support for BGP" RFC 8654
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8654>
, October 2019,

,

,
.

11.2.  Informative References

[RFC1918]

[RFC4272]

[RFC4364]

[RFC4655]

[RFC5152]

,

Rekhter, Y. Moskowitz, B. Karrenberg, D. de Groot, G. J.
Allocation for Private Internets" BCP 5 RFC 1918 DOI 10.17487/RFC1918
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1918>
February 1996,

, and

.

,

,

,

,

,

,

E. Lear "Address
,

Murphy, S. "BGP Security Vulnerabilities Analysis" RFC 4272 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4272

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4272>

, January 2006,

,

,

,

.

 and

Rosen, E.
4364 DOI 10.17487/RFC4364
,
rfc4364>

,

.

Y. Rekhter "BGP/MPLS IP Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2006,

,

,

Farrel, A. Vasseur, J.-P.
Architecture" RFC 4655 DOI 10.17487/RFC4655
,
editor.org/info/rfc4655>
.

, and

,

,

J. Ash "A Path Computation Element (PCE)-Based

, August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

Vasseur, JP., Ed. Ayyangar, A., Ed.
,
Computation Method for Establishing Inter-Domain Traffic Engineering (TE)
Label Switched Paths (LSPs)" RFC 5152 DOI 10.17487/RFC5152
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5152>

R. Zhang "A Per-Domain Path

, and

, February 2008,

,

,

.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 55

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

[RFC5392]

[RFC5693]

[RFC5706]

[RFC6549]

[RFC6952]

[RFC7285]

[RFC7752]

[RFC7911]

[RFC8202]

[RFC9029]

[RFC9346]

Chen, M. Zhang, R.
,
Autonomous System (AS) MPLS and GMPLS Traffic Engineering" RFC 5392 DOI
10.17487/RFC5392

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5392>
.

X. Duan "OSPF Extensions in Support of Inter-

, January 2009,

, and

,

,

E. Burger "Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO)

,

 and

Seedorf, J.
Problem Statement" RFC 5693 DOI 10.17487/RFC5693
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5693>

,

,

.

, October 2009,

<https://

,

Harrington, D. "Guidelines for Considering Operations and Management of New
Protocols and Protocol Extensions" RFC 5706 DOI 10.17487/RFC5706
, November
2009,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5706>

,

.

,

Lindem, A. Roy, A.
6549 DOI 10.17487/RFC6549
,
rfc6549>

, and

.

S. Mirtorabi "OSPFv2 Multi-Instance Extensions" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, March 2012,

,

,

L. Zheng "Analysis of BGP, LDP, PCEP, and MSDP
Jethanandani, M. Patel, K.
,
Issues According to the Keying and Authentication for Routing Protocols (KARP)
Design Guide" RFC 6952 DOI 10.17487/RFC6952
,
editor.org/info/rfc6952>
.

<https://www.rfc-

, May 2013,

, and

,

,
, and

Alimi, R., Ed. Penno, R., Ed. Yang, Y., Ed. Kiesel, S. Previdi, S. Roome, W.
Shalunov, S.
Protocol" RFC 7285 DOI 10.17487/RFC7285
editor.org/info/rfc7285>

R. Woundy "Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO)

, September 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Gredler, H., Ed. Medved, J. Previdi, S. Farrel, A.
Distribution of Link-State and Traffic Engineering (TE) Information Using BGP"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 7752 DOI 10.17487/RFC7752
, March 2016,
rfc7752>

S. Ray "North-Bound

, and

,
.

,

,

,

,

Walton, D. Retana, A. Chen, E.
in BGP" RFC 7911 DOI 10.17487/RFC7911
info/rfc7911>

, and

,

,

,

.

J. Scudder "Advertisement of Multiple Paths
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,
, July 2016,

Ginsberg, L. Previdi, S.
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8202

, and
, June 2017,

W. Henderickx "IS-IS Multi-Instance" RFC 8202
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8202>
.

,

,

,

Farrel, A. "Updates to the Allocation Policy for the Border Gateway Protocol -
Link State (BGP-LS) Parameters Registries" RFC 9029 DOI 10.17487/RFC9029
,
June 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9029>

,
.

,

,

,

Chen, M. Ginsberg, L. Previdi, S.
of Inter-Autonomous System (AS) MPLS and GMPLS Traffic Engineering" RFC
9346 DOI 10.17487/RFC9346
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
,
rfc9346>

D. Xiaodong "IS-IS Extensions in Support

, February 2023,

, and

,

,

.

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 56

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

Appendix A.  Changes from RFC 7752

This section lists the high-level changes from RFC 7752 and provides reference to the document
sections wherein those have been introduced.

1.

Updated Figure 1 in Section 1 and added Section 3 to illustrate the different roles of a BGP
implementation in conveying link-state information.

2.

Clarified aspects related to advertisement of link-state information from IGPs into BGP-LS in
Section 4.

3.

In Section 5.1, clarified aspects about TLV handling that apply to both the NLRI and BGP-LS
Attribute parts as well as those that are applicable only for the NLRI portion. An
implementation may have missed the part about the handling of an unknown TLV and so,
based on
 guidelines, might discard the unknown NLRI types. This aspect is now
unambiguously clarified in Section 5.2. Also, the TLVs in the BGP-LS Attribute that are not
ordered are not to be considered malformed.

[RFC7606]

4.

Clarified aspects of mandatory and optional TLVs in both NLRI and BGP-LS Attribute
portions all through the document.

5.

In Section 5.3, the handling of a large-sized BGP-LS Attribute with growth in BGP-LS
information is explained along with mitigation of errors arising out of it.

6.

Clarified that the document describes the NLRI descriptor TLVs for the protocols and NLRI
types specified in this document as well as future BGP-LS extensions must describe the same
for other protocols and NLRI types that they introduce.

7.

In Section 5.2, clarified the use of the Identifier field in the Link-State NLRI. It was defined
ambiguously to refer to only multi-instance IGP on a single link while it can also be used for
multiple IGP protocol instances on a router. The IANA registry is accordingly being removed.

8.

[RFC7752]

, and there has been some amount of confusion between

The BGP-LS Identifier TLV in the Node Descriptors has been deprecated. Its use was not well
specified by
implementors on its usage for identification of IGP domains as against the use of the
Identifier field carrying the BGP-LS Instance-ID when running multiple instances of IGP
routing protocols. The original purpose of the BGP-LS Identifier was that, in conjunction with
the ASN, it would uniquely identify the BGP-LS domain and that the combination of ASN and
BGP-LS ID would be globally unique. However, the BGP-LS Instance-ID carried in the
Identifier field in the fixed part of the NLRI also provides a similar functionality. Hence, the
inclusion of the BGP-LS Identifier TLV is not necessary. If advertised, all BGP-LS Speakers
within an IGP flooding-set (set of IGP nodes within which an LSP/LSA is flooded) had to use
the same (ASN, BGP-LS ID) tuple, and if an IGP domain consists of multiple flooding-sets, then
all BGP-LS Speakers within the IGP domain had to use the same (ASN, BGP-LS ID) tuple.

9.

Clarified that the Area-ID TLV is mandatory in the Node Descriptor for the origination of
information from OSPF except for when sourcing information from AS-scope LSAs where
this TLV is not applicable. Also clarified the IS-IS area and area addresses.

10.

Moved the MT-ID TLV from the Node Descriptor section to under the Link Descriptor section
since it is not a Node Descriptor sub-TLV. Fixed the ambiguity in the encoding of OSPF MT-ID
in this TLV. Updated the IS-IS specification reference section and described the differences in

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 57

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

the applicability of the R flags when the MT-ID TLV is used as the Link Descriptor TLV and
Prefix Attribute TLV. The MT-ID TLV use is now elevated to
underlying IGP.

 when it is enabled in the

SHOULD

11.

Clarified that IPv6 link-local addresses are not advertised in the Link Descriptor TLVs and the
local/remote identifiers are to be used instead for links with IPv6 link-local addresses only.

12.

Updated the usage of OSPF Route Type TLV to mandate its use for OSPF prefixes in Section
5.2.3.1 since this is required for segregation of intra-area prefixes that are used to reach a
node (e.g., a loopback) from other types of inter-area and external prefixes.

13.

Clarified the specific OSPFv2 and OSPFv3 protocol TLV space to be used in the Node, Link,
and Prefix Opaque Attribute TLVs.

14.

Clarified that the length of the Node Flag Bits and IGP Flags TLVs are to be one octet.

15.

Updated the Node Name TLV in Section 5.3.1.3 with the OSPF specification.

16.

Clarified the size of the IS-IS Narrow Metric advertisement via the IGP Metric TLV and the
handling of the unused bits.

17.

Clarified the advertisement of the prefix corresponding to the LAN segment in an OSPF
network in Section 5.11.

18.

Clarified the advertisement and support for OSPF-specific concepts like virtual links, sham
links, and Type 4 LSAs in Sections 5.7 and 5.8.

19.

Introduced the Private Use TLV code point space and specified their encoding in Section 5.4.

20.

In Section 5.9, introduced where issues related to the consistency of reporting IGP link-state
along with their solutions are covered.

21.

Added a recommendation for isolation of BGP-LS sessions from other BGP route exchanges
to avoid errors and faults in BGP-LS affecting the normal BGP routing.

22.

Updated the Fault Management section with detailed rules based on the role of the BGP
Speaker in the BGP-LS information propagation flow.

23.

Changed the management of BGP-LS IANA registries from "Specification Required" to
"Expert Review" along with updated guidelines for designated experts, more specifically, the
inclusion of changes introduced via

 that are obsoleted by this document.

[RFC9029]

24.

Added BGP-LS IANA registries with "Expert Review" policy for the flag fields of various TLVs
that was missed out. Renamed the BGP-LS TLV registry and removed the "IS-IS TLV/Sub-TLV"
column from it.

Acknowledgements

This document update to the BGP-LS specification
from the discussions in the IDR Working Group. It also incorporates certain details and
clarifications based on implementation and deployment experience with BGP-LS.

[RFC7752]

 is a result of feedback and input

Cengiz Alaettinoglu
a LAN subnet for OSPF.

 and

Parag Amritkar

 brought forward the need to clarify the advertisement of

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 58

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

,

Balaji Rajagopalan Srihari Sangli Shraddha Hegde Andrew Stone Jeff
,
We would like to thank
Tantsura Acee Lindem Les Ginsberg Jie Dong Aijun Wang Nandan Saha Joel Halpern
,
,
Gyan Mishra
 for their review and feedback on this document. Thanks to
review and comments on the IANA Considerations section. We would also like to thank
Haas

 for his detailed shepherd review and input for improving the document.

,
,
Tom Petch

,
, and

 for his

Jeffrey

,

,

,

The detailed AD review by
document significantly.

Alvaro Retana

 and his suggestions have helped improve this

We would like to thank Robert Varga for his significant contribution to

[RFC7752]
.

,

We would like to thank
Nischal Sheth Alia Atlas David Ward Derek Yeung Murtuza Lightwala
,
,
John Scudder Kaliraj Vairavakkalai Les Ginsberg Liem Nguyen Manish Bhardwaj Matt Miller
,
Mike Shand Peter Psenak Rex Fernando Richard Woundy Steven Luong Tamas Mondal Waqas
Alam Vipin Kumar Naiming Shen Carlos Pignataro Balaji Rajagopalan Yakov Rekhter Alvaro
,
Retana Barry Leiba
, and

,
[RFC7752]
.

 for their comments on

Ben Campbell

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Contributors

The following persons contributed significant text to
be considered coauthors.

[RFC7752]

 and this document. They should

Hannes Gredler
Rtbrick
Email:

 hannes@rtbrick.com

Jan Medved
Cisco Systems Inc.
United States of America
Email:

 jmedved@cisco.com

Stefano Previdi
Huawei Technologies
Italy
Email:

 stefano@previdi.net

Adrian Farrel
Old Dog Consulting
Email:

 adrian@olddog.co.uk

Saikat Ray
Individual
United States of America
Email:

 raysaikat@gmail.com

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 59

RFC 9552

Link-State Information Distribution Using BGP

December 2023

Author's Address

editor
)

Ketan Talaulikar (
Cisco Systems
India
Email:

 ketant.ietf@gmail.com

Talaulikar

Standards Track

Page 60

