Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9572
7432
Standards Track
May 2024
2070-1721
Z. Zhang
Juniper Networks

W. Lin
Juniper Networks

J. Rabadan
Nokia

K. Patel
Arrcus

A. Sajassi
Cisco Systems

RFC 9572
Updates to EVPN Broadcast, Unknown Unicast, or
Multicast (BUM) Procedures

Abstract

This document specifies updated procedures for handling Broadcast, Unknown Unicast, or
Multicast (BUM) traffic in Ethernet VPNs (EVPNs), including selective multicast and segmentation
of provider tunnels. This document updates RFC 7432.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9572
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Terminology

2.  Tunnel Segmentation

2.1.  Reasons for Tunnel Segmentation

3.  Additional Route Types of EVPN NLRI

3.1.  Per-Region I-PMSI A-D Route

3.2.  S-PMSI A-D Route

3.3.  Leaf A-D Route

4.  Selective Multicast

5.  Inter-AS Segmentation

5.1.  Differences from Section 7.2.2 of RFC 7117 when Applied to EVPNs

5.2.  I-PMSI Leaf Tracking

5.3.  Backward Compatibility

5.3.1.  Designated ASBR Election

6.  Inter-Region Segmentation

6.1.  Area/AS vs. Region

6.2.  Per-Region Aggregation

6.3.  Use of S-NH-EC

6.4.  Ingress PE's I-PMSI Leaf Tracking

7.  Multihoming Support

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

3

3

3

4

5

6

7

7

8

8

9

9

10

11

12

12

12

13

14

15

15

15

16

16

16

17

18

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

18

18

[RFC7117]
 specifies procedures for multicast in the Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS multicast),
using both inclusive tunnels and selective tunnels with or without inter-AS segmentation, similar
[RFC6514] [RFC7524]
to the Multicast VPN (MVPN) procedures specified in
.
specifies inter-area tunnel segmentation procedures for both VPLS multicast and MVPNs.

[RFC6513]

 and

[RFC7432]
Broadcast, Unknown Unicast, or Multicast (BUM) traffic.
but leaves a few feature gaps related to selective tunnel and tunnel segmentation (Section 2.1).

 specifies BGP MPLS-based Ethernet VPN (EVPN) procedures, including those handling
 for details

[RFC7117]

[RFC7432]

 refers to

This document aims to fill in those gaps by covering the use of selective and segmented tunnels
in EVPNs. In the same way that
 refers to
specifies differences from relevant procedures provided in
repeating the text from those documents. Note that these differences are applicable to EVPNs
[RFC7524]
.
only and are not updates to

 for details, this document only

[RFC7117]

[RFC7524]

[RFC7432]

[RFC7117]

[RFC7117]

 and

 or

, rather than

MVPN, VPLS, and EVPN technologies all need to discover other Provider Edges (PEs) in the same
L3/L2 VPN and announce the inclusive tunnels. MVPN technology introduced the Inclusive P-
Multicast Service Interface (I-PMSI) concept and uses I-PMSI Auto-Discovery (A-D) routes for that
purpose. EVPN technology uses Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag (IMET) A-D routes, but VPLS
technology just adds a PMSI Tunnel Attribute (PTA) to an existing VPLS A-D route for that
purpose. For selective tunnels, they all do use the same term: Selective PMSI (S-PMSI) A-D routes.

This document often refers to the I-PMSI concept, which is the same for all three technologies.
For consistency and convenience, an EVPN's IMET A-D route and a VPLS's VPLS A-D route
carrying a PTA for BUM traffic purposes may each be referred to as an I-PMSI A-D route,
depending on the context.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Terminology

It is assumed that the reader is familiar with concepts and terminologies related to MVPN
technology
convenience, the following terms are briefly explained.

, and EVPN technology

[RFC6513] [RFC6514]

, VPLS multicast

[RFC7117]

[RFC7432]

. For

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

AS:

Autonomous System

PMSI

[RFC6513]
:

P-Multicast Service Interface. A conceptual interface for a PE to send customer

multicast traffic to all or some PEs in the same VPN.

I-PMSI:

Inclusive PMSI. Enables traffic to be sent to all PEs in the same VPN.

S-PMSI:

Selective PMSI. Enables traffic to be sent to some of the PEs in the same VPN.

I/S-PMSI A-D Route:

Auto-Discovery route used to announce the tunnels that instantiate an I/S-

PMSI.

Leaf Auto-Discovery (A-D) Route

[RFC6513]
:

For explicit leaf-tracking purposes. Triggered by I/S-

PMSI A-D routes and targeted at the triggering route's (re-)advertiser. Its Network Layer
Reachability Information (NLRI) embeds the entire NLRI of the triggering PMSI A-D route.

IMET A-D Route

Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag A-D route. The EVPN equivalent of
an MVPN Intra-AS I-PMSI A-D route used to announce the tunnels that instantiate an I-PMSI.

[RFC7432]
:

SMET A-D Route

[RFC9251]
:

Selective Multicast Ethernet Tag A-D route. The EVPN equivalent of

an MVPN Leaf A-D route, but unsolicited and untargeted.

PMSI Tunnel Attribute (PTA):

An optional transitive BGP attribute that may be attached to PMSI/

Leaf A-D routes to provide information for a PMSI tunnel.

IBGP:

Internal BGP (BGP connection between internal peers).

EBGP:

External BGP (BGP connection between external peers).

RT:

Route Target. Controls route importation and propagation.

2.  Tunnel Segmentation

MVPN provider tunnels and EVPN/VPLS BUM provider tunnels, which are referred to as MVPN/
EVPN/VPLS provider tunnels in this document for simplicity, can be segmented for technical or
administrative reasons, which are summarized in Section 2.1 of this document.
 and
[RFC6514]
segmentation, and
MVPNs and VPLSs.

 (seamless MPLS multicast) covers inter-area segmentation for both

 cover MVPN inter-AS segmentation,

 covers VPLS multicast inter-AS

[RFC6513]

[RFC7117]

[RFC7524]

With tunnel segmentation, different segments of an end-to-end tunnel may have different
encapsulation overheads. However, the largest overhead of the tunnel caused by an
encapsulation method on a particular segment is not different from the case of a non-segmented
tunnel with that encapsulation method. This is similar to the case of a network with different
link types.

There is a difference between MVPN and VPLS multicast inter-AS segmentation (the VPLS
approach is briefly described in Section 5.1). For simplicity, EVPNs will use the same procedures
as those for MVPNs. All ASBRs can re-advertise their choice of the best route. Each can become

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

the root of its intra-AS segment and inject traffic it receives from its upstream, while each
downstream PE/ASBR will only pick one of the upstream ASBRs as its upstream. This is also the
behavior even for VPLS in the case of inter-area segmentation.

[RFC7524]

For inter-area segmentation,
(P2MP) Segmented Next-Hop Extended Community (S-NH-EC) and the setting of the Leaf
Information Required (L) flag in the PTA in certain situations. In the EVPN case, the requirements
around the S-NH-EC and the L flag in the PTA differ from
procedures transparent to ingress and egress PEs.

 requires the use of the Inter-Area Point-to-Multipoint

 to make the segmentation

[RFC7524]

 assumes that segmentation happens at area borders. However, it could be at

[RFC7524]
"regional" borders, where a region could be a sub-area, or even an entire AS plus its external
links (Section 6.1); this would allow for more flexible deployment scenarios (e.g., for single-area
provider networks). This document extends the inter-area segmentation concept to inter-region
segmentation for EVPNs.

2.1.  Reasons for Tunnel Segmentation

Tunnel segmentation may be required and/or desired for administrative and/or technical
reasons.

For example, an MVPN/VPLS/EVPN may span multiple providers, and the end-to-end provider
tunnels have to be segmented at and stitched by the ASBRs. Different providers may use different
, provider B uses RSVP-TE
tunnel technologies (e.g., provider A uses ingress replication
P2MP
same tunnel technology (e.g., RSVP-TE P2MP), it may be impractical to set up the tunnels across
provider boundaries.

, and provider C uses Multipoint LDP (mLDP)

). Even if they use the

[RFC7988]

[RFC4875]

[RFC6388]

The same situations may apply between the ASes and/or areas of a single provider. For example,
the backbone area may use RSVP-TE P2MP tunnels while non-backbone areas may use mLDP
tunnels.

Segmentation can also be used to divide an AS/area into smaller regions, so that control plane
state and/or forwarding plane state/burden can be limited to that of individual regions. For
example, instead of ingress-replicating to 100 PEs in the entire AS, with inter-area segmentation
[RFC7524]
, a PE only needs to replicate to local PEs and Area Border Routers (ABRs). The ABRs
will further replicate to their downstream PEs and ABRs. This not only reduces the forwarding
plane burden, but also reduces the leaf-tracking burden in the control plane.

In the case of tunnel aggregation, smaller regions provide the benefit of making it easier to find
congruence among the segments of different constituent (service) tunnels and the resulting
aggregation (base) tunnel in a region. This leads to better bandwidth efficiency, because the more
congruent they are, the fewer leaves of the base tunnel need to discard traffic when a service
tunnel's segment does not need to receive the traffic (yet it is receiving the traffic due to
aggregation).

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

Another advantage of the smaller region is smaller Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER)
subdomains
routers that need to receive traffic. Smaller subdomains means that smaller BitStrings can be
used without having to send multiple copies of the same packet.

. With BIER, packets carry a BitString, in which the bits correspond to edge

[RFC8279]

3.  Additional Route Types of EVPN NLRI

[RFC7432]

 defines the format of EVPN NLRI as follows:

                 +-----------------------------------+
                 |    Route Type (1 octet)           |
                 +-----------------------------------+
                 |     Length (1 octet)              |
                 +-----------------------------------+
                 | Route Type specific (variable)    |
                 +-----------------------------------+

So far, eight route types have been defined in

[RFC7432] [RFC9136]
,

, and

[RFC9251]
:

Value Description

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

Ethernet Auto-discovery

MAC/IP Advertisement

Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag

Ethernet Segment

IP Prefix

Selective Multicast Ethernet Tag Route

Multicast Membership Report Synch Route

Multicast Leave Synch Route

Table 1: Pre-existing Route Types

This document defines three additional route types:

Value

Description

9

10

Per-Region I-PMSI A-D route

S-PMSI A-D route

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

Value

Description

11

Leaf A-D route

Table 2: New Route Types

The "Route Type specific" field of the Type 9 and Type 10 EVPN NLRIs starts with a Type 1 RD
(Route Distinguisher), whose Administrator sub-field
 match that of the RD in all current
EVPN routes that are not Leaf A-D routes (Section 3.3), i.e., non-Leaf A-D routes from the same
advertising router for a given EVPN instance (EVI).

MUST

3.1.  Per-Region I-PMSI A-D Route

The per-region I-PMSI A-D route has the following format. Its usage is discussed in Section 6.2.

                +-----------------------------------+
                |       RD (8 octets)               |
                +-----------------------------------+
                |  Ethernet Tag ID (4 octets)       |
                +-----------------------------------+
                |  Region ID (8 octets)             |
                +-----------------------------------+

The Region ID identifies the region and is encoded in the same way that an EC is encoded, as
detailed in Section 6.2.

3.2.  S-PMSI A-D Route

The S-PMSI A-D route has the following format:

                +-----------------------------------+
                |       RD (8 octets)               |
                +-----------------------------------+
                |  Ethernet Tag ID (4 octets)       |
                +-----------------------------------+
                | Multicast Source Length (1 octet) |
                +-----------------------------------+
                |  Multicast Source (variable)      |
                +-----------------------------------+
                |  Multicast Group Length (1 octet) |
                +-----------------------------------+
                |  Multicast Group (variable)       |
                +-----------------------------------+
                |Originator's Addr Length (1 octet) |
                +-----------------------------------+
                |Originator's Addr (4 or 16 octets) |
                +-----------------------------------+

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

Other than the addition of the Ethernet Tag ID and Originator's Addr Length fields, it is identical
to the S-PMSI A-D route as defined in
apply (including wildcard functionality), except that the granularity level is per Ethernet Tag.

. The procedures specified in

[RFC7117]

[RFC7117]

 also

3.3.  Leaf A-D Route

The Route Type specific field of a Leaf A-D route consists of the following:

                +-----------------------------------+
                |      Route Key (variable)         |
                +-----------------------------------+
                |Originator's Addr Length (1 octet) |
                +-----------------------------------+
                |Originator's Addr (4 or 16 octets) |
                +-----------------------------------+

A Leaf A-D route is originated in response to a PMSI route, which could be an IMET A-D route, a
per-region I-PMSI A-D route, an S-PMSI A-D route, or some other types of routes that may be
defined in the future that trigger Leaf A-D routes. The Route Key is the NLRI of the route for
which this Leaf A-D route is generated.

The general procedures for Leaf A-D routes were first specified in
principles therein apply to VPLSs and EVPNs as well.
multicast, and this document points out some specifics for EVPNs, e.g., in Section 5.

[RFC7117]

[RFC6514]

 provides details regarding VPLS

 for MVPNs. The

4.  Selective Multicast

[RFC9251]
 specifies procedures for EVPN selective forwarding of IP multicast traffic using SMET
routes. It assumes that selective forwarding is always used with ingress replication for all flows
(though the same signaling can also be used for an ingress PE to learn the set of egress PEs for
selective forwarding with BIER). A Network Virtualization Edge (NVE) proxies the IGMP/MLD
state ("MLD" stands for "Multicast Listener Discovery") that it learns on its Attachment Circuits
(ACs) to (C-S,C-G) or (C-*,C-G) SMET routes that are advertised to other NVEs, and a receiving NVE
converts the SMET routes back to IGMP/MLD messages and sends them out of its ACs. The
receiving NVE also uses the SMET routes to identify which NVEs need to receive traffic for a
particular (C-S,C-G) or (C-*,C-G) to achieve selective forwarding using ingress replication or BIER.

With the above procedures, selective forwarding is done for all flows, and the SMET routes are
advertised for all flows. It is possible that an operator may not want to track all those (C-S, C-G) or
(C-*,C-G) states on the NVEs, and the multicast traffic pattern allows inclusive forwarding for
most flows while selective forwarding is needed only for a few high-rate flows. For that reason,
or for tunnel types other than ingress replication or BIER, S-PMSI/Leaf A-D procedures defined
 are used. Other than the fact that different route
for selective multicast for VPLS in
types and formats are specified with an EVPN SAFI for S-PMSI A-D and Leaf A-D routes (Section
3), all procedures specified in
well, including wildcard procedures. In a nutshell, a source NVE advertises S-PMSI A-D routes to

 with respect to selective multicast apply to EVPNs as

[RFC7117]

[RFC7117]

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

announce the tunnels used for certain flows, and receiving NVEs either join the announced PIM/
mLDP tunnel or respond with Leaf A-D routes if the L flag is set in the S-PMSI A-D route's PTA (so
that the source NVE can include them as tunnel leaves).

An optimization to the procedures provided in
sets the L flag to request Leaf A-D routes, an egress NVE
already advertised a corresponding SMET route, and the source NVE
Leaf A-D route.

[RFC7117]

MAY

 may be applied. Even if a source NVE
 omit the Leaf A-D route if it has

MUST

 use that in lieu of the

The optional optimizations specified for MVPNs in
the procedures for S-PMSI/Leaf A-D routes are used for EVPN selective multicast forwarding.

 are also applicable to EVPNs when

[RFC8534]

5.  Inter-AS Segmentation

5.1.  Differences from Section 7.2.2 of RFC 7117 when Applied to EVPNs

The first paragraph of

Section 7.2.2.2 of [RFC7117]

 says:

... The best route procedures ensure that if multiple ASBRs, in an AS, receive the same
Inter-AS A-D route from their EBGP neighbors, only one of these ASBRs propagates this
route in Internal BGP (IBGP). This ASBR becomes the root of the intra-AS segment of the
inter-AS tree and ensures that this is the only ASBR that accepts traffic into this AS from
the inter-AS tree.

The above VPLS behavior requires complicated VPLS-specific procedures for the ASBRs to reach
agreement. For EVPNs, a different approach is used; the above text from
applicable to EVPNs.

[RFC7117]

 is not

With the different approach for EVPNs/MVPNs, each ASBR will re-advertise its received Inter-AS
A-D route to its IBGP peers and becomes the root of an intra-AS segment of the inter-AS tree. The
intra-AS segment rooted at one ASBR is disjoint from another intra-AS segment rooted at another
ASBR. This is the same as the procedures for S-PMSI routes in

[RFC7117]

 itself.

The following bullet in

Section 7.2.2.2 of [RFC7117]

 does not apply to EVPNs.

•

If the ASBR uses ingress replication to instantiate the intra-AS segment of the inter-
AS tunnel, the re-advertised route

 carry the PMSI Tunnel attribute.

MUST NOT

The following bullet in

Section 7.2.2.2 of [RFC7117]
:

•

If the ASBR uses a P-multicast tree to instantiate the intra-AS segment of the inter-AS
tunnel, the PMSI Tunnel attribute
 contain the identity of the tree that is used
to instantiate the segment (note that the ASBR could create the identity of the tree

MUST

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

prior to the actual instantiation of the segment). If, in order to instantiate the
segment, the ASBR needs to know the leaves of the tree, then the ASBR obtains this
information from the A-D routes received from other PEs/ASBRs in the ASBR's own
AS.

is changed to the following when applied to EVPNs:

•

MUST

 specify the tunnel for the segment. If and only if, in order to establish

The PTA
the tunnel, the ASBR needs to know the leaves of the tree, then the ASBR
the L flag to 1 in the PTA to trigger Leaf A-D routes from egress PEs and downstream
ASBRs. It
of Leaf A-D routes by the ASBR.

 be (auto-)configured with an import RT, which controls acceptance

MUST

MUST

 set

Accordingly, the following paragraph in

Section 7.2.2.4 of [RFC7117]
:

If the received Inter-AS A-D route carries the PMSI Tunnel attribute with the Tunnel
Identifier set to RSVP-TE P2MP LSP, then the ASBR that originated the route
establish an RSVP-TE P2MP LSP with the local PE/ASBR as a leaf. This LSP
been established before the local PE/ASBR receives the route, or it
after the local PE receives the route.

 have

MUST

 be established

MAY

MAY

is changed to the following when applied to EVPNs:

If the received Inter-AS A-D route has the L flag set in its PTA, then a receiving PE
originate a corresponding Leaf A-D route. A receiving ASBR
corresponding Leaf A-D route if and only if one of the following conditions is met: (1) it
received and imported one or more corresponding Leaf A-D routes from its downstream
IBGP or EBGP peers or (2) it has non-null downstream forwarding state for the PIM/
mLDP tunnel that instantiates its downstream intra-AS segment. The targeted ASBR for
the Leaf A-D route, which (re-)advertised the Inter-AS A-D route,
to the leaves discovered by the Leaf A-D routes.

 establish a tunnel

 originate a

MUST

MUST

MUST

5.2.  I-PMSI Leaf Tracking

An ingress PE does not set the L flag in its IMET A-D route's PTA, even with Ingress Replication
tunnels or RSVP-TE P2MP tunnels. It does not rely on the Leaf A-D routes to discover leaves in its
AS, and

 explicitly states that the L flag must be set to 0.

Section 11.2 of [RFC7432]

An implementation of
IMET A-D routes to determine the leaves or might have used the Next Hop field instead. Within
the same AS, both will lead to the same result.

 might have used the Originating Router's IP Address field of the

[RFC7432]

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

MUST

 determine the leaves in its AS from the BGP next hops in

With segmentation, an ingress PE
all its received IMET A-D routes, so it does not have to set the L flag to request Leaf A-D routes.
PEs within the same AS will all have different next hops in their IMET A-D routes (and hence will
all be considered as leaves), and PEs from other ASes will have the next hop in their IMET A-D
routes set to addresses of ASBRs in this local AS; hence, only those ASBRs will be considered as
leaves (as proxies for those PEs in other ASes). Note that in the case of ingress replication, when
an ASBR re-advertises IMET A-D routes to IBGP peers, it
those routes for the same Ethernet Tag ID and the same EVI. Otherwise, duplicated copies will be
sent by the ingress PE and received by egress PEs in other regions. For the same reason, when an
ingress PE builds its flooding list, if multiple routes have the same (nexthop, label) tuple, they
MUST

 only be added as a single branch in the flooding list.

 advertise the same label for all

MUST

5.3.  Backward Compatibility

The above procedures assume that all PEs are upgraded to support the segmentation procedures:

•

An ingress PE uses the Next Hop and not the Originating Router's IP Address to determine
leaves for the I-PMSI tunnel.

•

An egress PE sends Leaf A-D routes in response to I-PMSI routes, if the PTA has the L flag set
by the re-advertising ASBR.

•

In the case of ingress replication, when an ingress PE builds its flooding list, multiple I-PMSI
routes may have the same (nexthop, label) tuple, and only a single branch for those routes
will be added in the flooding list.

If a deployment has legacy PEs that do not support the above, then a legacy ingress PE would
include all PEs (including those in remote ASes) as leaves of the inclusive tunnel and try to send
traffic to them directly (no segmentation), which is either undesirable or impossible; a legacy
egress PE would not send Leaf A-D routes so the ASBRs would not know to send external traffic to
them.

If this backward-compatibility problem needs to be addressed, the following procedure
used (see Section 6.2 for per-PE/AS/region I-PMSI A-D routes):

MUST

 be

•

An upgraded PE indicates in its per-PE I-PMSI A-D route that it supports the new procedures.
This is done by setting a flag bit in the EVPN Multicast Flags Extended Community.

•

All per-PE I-PMSI A-D routes are restricted to the local AS and not propagated to external
peers.

•

The ASBRs in an AS originate per-region I-PMSI A-D routes and advertise them to their
external peers to specify tunnels used to carry traffic from the local AS to other ASes.
Depending on the types of tunnels being used, the L flag in the PTA may be set, in which case
the downstream ASBRs and upgraded PEs will send Leaf A-D routes to pull traffic from their
upstream ASBRs. In a particular downstream AS, one of the ASBRs is elected, based on the
per-region I-PMSI A-D routes for a particular source AS, to send traffic from that source AS to
legacy PEs in the downstream AS. The traffic arrives at the elected ASBR on the tunnel
announced in the best per-region I-PMSI A-D route for the source AS, as selected by the ASBR

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

from all the routes that it received over EBGP or IBGP sessions. The election procedure is
described in Section 5.3.1.

•

In an ingress/upstream AS, if and only if an ASBR has active downstream receivers (PEs and
ASBRs), which are learned either explicitly via Leaf A-D routes or implicitly via PIM Join or
mLDP label mapping, the ASBR originates a per-PE I-PMSI A-D route (i.e., a regular IMET
route) into the local AS and stitches incoming per-PE I-PMSI tunnels into its per-region I-
PMSI tunnel. Via this process, it gets traffic from local PEs and sends the traffic to other ASes
via the tunnel announced in its per-region I-PMSI A-D route.

Note that even if there are no backward-compatibility issues, the use of per-region I-PMSI A-D
routes provides the benefit of keeping all per-PE I-PMSI A-D routes in their local ASes, greatly
reducing the flooding of the routes and their corresponding Leaf A-D routes (when needed) and
reducing the number of inter-AS tunnels.

5.3.1.  Designated ASBR Election

When an ASBR re-advertises a per-region I-PMSI A-D route into an AS in which a designated
ASBR needs to be used to forward traffic to the legacy PEs in the AS, it
Forwarder (DF) Election EC. The EC and its use are specified in
DF Election EC
 remove the DF Election EC if one is carried in the per-region I-PMSI
NOT
A-D routes that it receives. Note that this is done for each set of per-region I-PMSI A-D routes with
the same NLRI.

 be cleared. If it is known that no legacy PEs exist in the AS, the ASBR

 include a Designated

. The AC-DF bit in the

 include the EC and

[RFC8584]

MUST

MUST

MUST

MUST

Based on the procedures specified in
the DF Election ECs carried in the set of per-region I-PMSI routes of the same NLRI re-advertised
into the AS. The algorithm is then applied to a candidate list, which is the set of ASBRs that re-
advertised the per-region I-PMSI routes of the same NLRI carrying the DF Election EC.

, an election algorithm is determined according to

[RFC8584]

6.  Inter-Region Segmentation

6.1.  Area/AS vs. Region

 addresses MVPN/VPLS inter-area segmentation and does not explicitly cover EVPNs.

[RFC7524]
However, if "area" is replaced by "region" and "ABR" is replaced by "RBR" (Regional Border
Router), then everything still works and can be applied to EVPNs as well.

A region can be a sub-area, or it can be an entire AS, including its external links. Instead of
automatically defining a region based on IGP areas, a region would be defined as a BGP peer
group. In fact, even with a region definition based on an IGP area, a BGP peer group listing the
PEs and ABRs in an area is still needed.

Consider the following example diagram for inter-AS segmentation:

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

          ---------           ------             ---------
         /         \         /      \           /         \
        /           \       /        \         /           \
       | PE1 o    ASBR1 -- ASBR2    ASBR3 -- ASBR4    o PE2 |
        \           /       \        /         \           /
         \         /         \      /           \         /
          ---------           ------             ---------
          AS 100              AS 200              AS 300
       |-----------|--------|---------|--------|------------|
          segment1  segment2 segment3  segment4  segment5

The inter-AS segmentation procedures specified so far (
Section 5 of this document) require all ASBRs to be involved, and ingress replication is used
between two ASBRs in different ASes.

[RFC6513] [RFC6514] [RFC7117]

,

,

, and

In the above diagram, it's possible that ASBR1/4 does not support segmentation, and the provider
tunnels in AS 100/300 can actually extend across the external link. In this case, the inter-region
segmentation procedures can be used instead -- a region is the entire AS100 plus the ASBR1-
ASBR2 link or the entire AS300 plus the ASBR3-ASBR4 link. ASBR2/3 would be the RBRs, and
ASBR1/4 will just be a transit core router with respect to provider tunnels.

As illustrated in the diagram below, ASBR2/3 will establish a multihop EBGP session, either with a
Route Reflector (RR) or directly with PEs in the neighboring AS. I/S-PMSI A-D routes from ingress
PEs will not be processed by ASBR1/4. When ASBR2 re-advertises the routes into AS 200, it
changes the next hop to its own address and changes its PTA to specify the tunnel type/
identification in its own AS. When ASBR3 re-advertises I/S-PMSI A-D routes into the neighboring
AS 300, it changes the next hop to its own address and changes its PTA to specify the tunnel type/
identification in the neighboring region. Now, the segment is rooted at ASBR3 and extends across
the external link to PEs.

          ---------           ------             ---------
         /   RR....\.mh-ebpg /      \    mh-ebgp/....RR   \
        /    :      \    `. /        \ .'      /      :    \
       | PE1 o    ASBR1 -- ASBR2    ASBR3 -- ASBR4    o PE2 |
        \           /       \        /         \           /
         \         /         \      /           \         /
          ---------           ------             ---------
          AS 100              AS 200              AS 300
       |-------------------|----------|---------------------|
          segment 1          segment 2         segment 3

6.2.  Per-Region Aggregation

Notice that every I/S-PMSI route from each PE will be propagated throughout all the ASes or
regions. They may also trigger corresponding Leaf A-D routes, depending on the types of tunnels
used in each region. This may result in too many routes and corresponding tunnels. To address
this concern, the I-PMSI routes from all PEs in an AS/region can be aggregated into a single I-

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

PMSI route originated from the RBRs, and traffic from all those individual I-PMSI tunnels will be
switched into the single I-PMSI tunnel. This is like the MVPN Inter-AS I-PMSI route originated by
ASBRs.

The MVPN Inter-AS I-PMSI A-D route can be better called a "per-AS I-PMSI A-D route", to be
compared against the (per-PE) Intra-AS I-PMSI A-D routes originated by each PE. In this
document, we will call it a "per-region I-PMSI A-D route" in cases where we want to apply
aggregation at the regional level. The per-PE I-PMSI routes will not be propagated to other
regions. If multiple RBRs are connected to a region, then each will advertise such a route, with
the same Region ID and Ethernet Tag ID (Section 3.1). Similar to the per-PE I-PMSI A-D routes,
RBRs/PEs in a downstream region will each select the best route from all those re-advertised by
the upstream RBRs and hence will only receive traffic injected by one of them.

MVPNs do not aggregate S-PMSI routes from all PEs in an AS like they do for I-PMSI routes,
because the number of PEs that will advertise S-PMSI routes for the same (S,G) or (*,G) is small.
This is also the case for EVPNs, i.e., there are no per-region S-PMSI routes.

Notice that per-region I-PMSI routes can also be used to address backward-compatibility issues,
as discussed in Section 5.3.

The Region ID in the per-region I-PMSI route's NLRI is encoded like an EC. For example, the
Region ID can encode an AS number or area ID in the following EC format:

•

For a two-octet AS number, a Transitive Two-Octet AS-specific EC of sub-type 0x09 (Source
AS), with the Global Administrator sub-field set to the AS number and the Local
Administrator sub-field set to 0.

•

For a four-octet AS number, a Transitive Four-Octet AS-specific EC of sub-type 0x09 (Source
AS), with the Global Administrator sub-field set to the AS number and the Local
Administrator sub-field set to 0.

•

For an area ID, a Transitive IPv4-Address-specific EC of any sub-type, with the Global
Administrator sub-field set to the area ID and the Local Administrator sub-field set to 0.

The use of other EC encodings
the RBRs for the same region use the same Region ID.

MAY

 be allowed as long as they uniquely identify the region and

6.3.  Use of S-NH-EC

[RFC7524]
 specifies the use of the S-NH-EC because it does not allow ABRs to change the BGP next
hop when they re-advertise I/S-PMSI A-D routes to downstream areas. That behavior is only to be
consistent with the MVPN Inter-AS I-PMSI A-D routes, whose next hop must not be changed when
they're re-advertised by the segmenting ABRs for reasons specific to MVPNs. For EVPNs, it is
perfectly fine to change the next hop when RBRs re-advertise the I/S-PMSI A-D routes, instead of
relying on the S-NH-EC. As a result, this document specifies that RBRs change the BGP next hop
when they re-advertise I/S-PMSI A-D routes and do not use the S-NH-EC. This provides the
advantage that neither ingress PEs nor egress PEs need to understand/use the S-NH-EC, and a
consistent procedure (based on BGP next hops) is used for both inter-AS and inter-region
segmentation.

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

If a downstream PE/RBR needs to originate Leaf A-D routes, it constructs an IP-based Route
Target Extended Community by placing the IP address carried in the Next Hop of the received I/S-
PMSI A-D route in the Global Administrator field of the extended community, with the Local
Administrator field of this extended community set to 0, and also setting the Extended
Communities attribute of the Leaf A-D route to that extended community.

[RFC7524]

, the upstream RBR

Similar to
Administrator field set to the Next Hop in the re-advertised I/S-PMSI A-D route and with the Local
Administrator field set to 0. Using this technique, the mechanisms specified in
constrained BGP route distribution can be used along with this specification to ensure that only
the needed PE/ABR will have to process a particular Leaf A-D route.

 (auto-)configure an RT with the Global

[RFC4684]

MUST

 for

6.4.  Ingress PE's I-PMSI Leaf Tracking

[RFC7524]
 specifies that when an ingress PE/ASBR (re-)advertises a VPLS I-PMSI A-D route, it sets
the L flag to 1 in the route's PTA. Similar to the inter-AS case, this is actually not really needed for
EVPNs. To be consistent with the inter-AS case, the ingress PE does not set the L flag in its
originated I-PMSI A-D routes, and it determines the leaves based on the BGP next hops in its
received I-PMSI A-D routes, as specified in Section 5.2.

The same backward-compatibility issue exists, and the same solution as that for the inter-AS case
applies, as specified in Section 5.3.

7.  Multihoming Support

To support multihoming with segmentation, Ethernet Segment Identifier (ESI) labels
allocated from a "Domain-wide Common Block" (DCB)
Ingress Replication tunnels
that ESI labels are from a DCB, and existing multihoming procedures will then work "as is"
(whether a multihomed Ethernet Segment spans segmentation regions or not).

 for all tunnel types, including
. Via means outside the scope of this document, PEs know

[RFC7988]

[RFC9573]

SHOULD

 be

Not using DCB-allocated ESI labels is outside the scope of this document.

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has assigned the following new EVPN route types in the "EVPN Route Types" registry:

Value Description

Reference

9

10

11

Per-Region I-PMSI A-D route

RFC 9572

S-PMSI A-D route

Leaf A-D route

RFC 9572

RFC 9572

Table 3: New Route Types

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

IANA has assigned one flag bit from the "Multicast Flags Extended Community" registry created
by

[RFC9251]
:

Bit Name

Reference

Change Controller

8

Segmentation Support

RFC 9572

IETF

Table 4: New Multicast Flag

9.  Security Considerations

[RFC7117]

The procedures specified in this document for selective forwarding via S-PMSI/Leaf A-D routes
are based on the same procedures as those used for MVPNs
multicast
based on similar procedures used for MVPN inter-AS tunnel segmentation
area tunnel segmentation
segmentation
beyond those discussed in
introduce new security concerns compared to

. The procedures for tunnel segmentation as specified in this document are
 and inter-

, as well as procedures for VPLS multicast inter-AS tunnel
. When applied to EVPNs, they do not introduce new security concerns

[RFC6513] [RFC6514] [RFC7117]

[RFC6513] [RFC6514]

. They also do not

[RFC7432]
.

[RFC7524]

[RFC7524]

[RFC7117]

[RFC6514]

 and VPLS

, and

,

,

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6513]

[RFC6514]

[RFC7117]

[RFC7432]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Rosen, E., Ed.
DOI 10.17487/RFC6513
rfc6513>

.

R. Aggarwal, Ed. "Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6513

,

,

,

, February 2012,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

Aggarwal, R. Rosen, E. Morin, T.
Procedures for Multicast in MPLS/BGP IP VPNs" RFC 6514 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6514

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6514>

Y. Rekhter "BGP Encodings and

, February 2012,

, and

,
,

,

.

,

,

Aggarwal, R., Ed. Kamite, Y. Fang, L. Rekhter, Y.
in Virtual Private LAN Service (VPLS)" RFC 7117 DOI 10.17487/RFC7117
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7117>
February 2014,

, and
,

,

,

,

.

C. Kodeboniya "Multicast

,

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Aggarwal, R. Bitar, N. Isaac, A. Uttaro, J. Drake, J.
Henderickx "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN" RFC 7432 DOI 10.17487/RFC7432
February 2015,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7432>
.

, and

,
,

W.

,

,

,

,

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

[RFC7524]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8534]

[RFC8584]

[RFC9251]

[RFC9573]

,

,

,

Rekhter, Y. Rosen, E. Aggarwal, R. Morin, T. Grosclaude, I. Leymann, N.
, and
Saad "Inter-Area Point-to-Multipoint (P2MP) Segmented Label Switched Paths
(LSPs)" RFC 7524 DOI 10.17487/RFC7524
,
info/rfc7524>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, May 2015,

S.

,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Dolganow, A. Kotalwar, J. Rosen, E., Ed.
Wildcard Routes in Multicast VPN" RFC 8534 DOI 10.17487/RFC8534
,
2019,

Z. Zhang "Explicit Tracking with
, and
,
, February
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8534>

,

,

.

,

Rabadan, J., Ed. Mohanty, S., Ed. Sajassi, A. Drake, J. Nagaraj, K.
,
Sathappan "Framework for Ethernet VPN Designated Forwarder Election
Extensibility" RFC 8584 DOI 10.17487/RFC8584
,
editor.org/info/rfc8584>
.

, April 2019,

, and

S.

,

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Sajassi, A. Thoria, S. Mishra, M. Patel, K. Drake, J.
Management Protocol (IGMP) and Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) Proxies
for Ethernet VPN (EVPN)" RFC 9251 DOI 10.17487/RFC9251
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9251>

W. Lin "Internet Group

, June 2022,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Zhang, Z. Rosen, E. Lin, W. Li, Z.
Aggregation with Common Labels" RFC 9573 DOI 10.17487/RFC9573
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9573>

IJ. Wijnands "MVPN/EVPN Tunnel

, and
,

,

,

,

,

.

, May 2024,

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC4684]

[RFC4875]

[RFC6388]

[RFC7988]

,

,

Marques, P. Bonica, R. Fang, L. Martini, L. Raszuk, R. Patel, K.
,
"Constrained Route Distribution for Border Gateway Protocol/MultiProtocol
Label Switching (BGP/MPLS) Internet Protocol (IP) Virtual Private Networks
<https://www.rfc-
(VPNs)" RFC 4684 DOI 10.17487/RFC4684
editor.org/info/rfc4684>

, November 2006,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

J. Guichard
,

,

Aggarwal, R., Ed. Papadimitriou, D., Ed.
Resource Reservation Protocol - Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) for Point-to-
Multipoint TE Label Switched Paths (LSPs)" RFC 4875 DOI 10.17487/RFC4875
May 2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4875>

S. Yasukawa, Ed. "Extensions to

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Wijnands, IJ., Ed. Minei, I., Ed. Kompella, K.
Protocol Extensions for Point-to-Multipoint and Multipoint-to-Multipoint Label
Switched Paths" RFC 6388 DOI 10.17487/RFC6388
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6388>

B. Thomas "Label Distribution

, November 2011,

<https://

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Rosen, E., Ed. Subramanian, K.
Multicast VPN" RFC 7988 DOI 10.17487/RFC7988
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7988>

, and

,

,

.

Z. Zhang "Ingress Replication Tunnels in
, October 2016,

<https://

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

[RFC8279]

[RFC9136]

,

Wijnands, IJ., Ed. Rosen, E., Ed. Dolganow, A. Przygienda, T.
"Multicast Using Bit Index Explicit Replication (BIER)" RFC 8279 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8279

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8279>

, November 2017,

, and
,

S. Aldrin

,

,

,

,

.

,

A. Sajassi "IP Prefix
,
Rabadan, J., Ed. Henderickx, W. Drake, J. Lin, W.
Advertisement in Ethernet VPN (EVPN)" RFC 9136 DOI 10.17487/RFC9136
,
October 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9136>

, and
,

,

.

,

,

Acknowledgements

The authors thank

Eric Rosen John Drake
,

, and

Ron Bonica

 for their comments and suggestions.

Contributors

The following people also contributed to this document through their earlier work in EVPN
selective multicast.

Junlin Zhang
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Bld., No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

 jackey.zhang@huawei.com

Zhenbin Li
Huawei Technologies
Huawei Bld., No. 156 Beiqing Rd.
Beijing
100095
China
Email:

 lizhenbin@huawei.com

Authors' Addresses

Zhaohui Zhang
Juniper Networks
Email:

 zzhang@juniper.net

Wen Lin
Juniper Networks
Email:

 wlin@juniper.net

Jorge Rabadan
Nokia
Email:

 jorge.rabadan@nokia.com

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9572

EVPN BUM Procedures: Updates

May 2024

Keyur Patel
Arrcus
Email:

 keyur@arrcus.com

Ali Sajassi
Cisco Systems
Email:

 sajassi@cisco.com

Zhang, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

