Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9865
7643, 7644
Standards Track
October 2025
2070-1721
M. Peterson, Ed.
Entrust

D. Zollner
Independent

A. Sehgal
Amazon Web Services

RFC 9865
Cursor-Based Pagination of System of Cross-domain
Identity Management (SCIM) Resources

Abstract

This document updates RFCs 7643 and 7644 by defining additional System for Cross-Domain
Identity Management (SCIM) query parameters and result attributes to allow use of cursor-
based pagination in SCIM service providers that are implemented with existing codebases,
databases, or APIs where cursor-based pagination is already well established.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9865
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in effect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Notational Conventions

1.2.  Definitions

2.  Query Parameters and Response Attributes

2.1.  Pagination Errors

2.2.  Sorting

2.3.  Implementing Cursors as the Only Pagination Method

2.4.  Implementing Both Cursors and Index Pagination

3.  Querying Resources Using HTTP POST

4.  Service Provider Configuration

5.  Security Considerations

5.1.  Threat Model and Security Environment

5.2.  Confidentiality

5.3.  Availability

5.4.  Other Security References

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

6

6

6

7

7

8

10

10

11

11

12

12

12

12

13

13

13

13

The two common patterns for result pagination are index-based pagination and cursor-based
pagination. Rather than attempt to compare and contrast the advantages and disadvantages of
competing pagination patterns, this document simply recognizes that System for Cross-Domain

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

Identity Management (SCIM) service providers are commonly implemented as an
interoperability layer on top of already existing application codebases, databases, and/or APIs
that already have a well established pagination pattern.

Section 3.4.2.4 of [RFC7644]

Translating from an underlying cursor-based pagination pattern to the index-based pagination
defined in
 ultimately requires the SCIM service provider to fully
iterate the underlying cursor, store the results, and then serve indexed pages from the stored
results. This task of "pagination translation" increases complexity and memory requirements for
implementing a SCIM service provider, and may be an impediment to SCIM adoption for some
applications and identity systems.

This document defines a simple addition to the SCIM protocol that allows SCIM service providers
to reuse underlying cursors without expensive translation. Support for cursor-based pagination
in SCIM encourages broader cross-application identity management interoperability by
encouraging SCIM service provider implementations for applications and identity systems
where cursor-based pagination is already well established.

This document updates RFCs 7643 and 7644 because it adds attributes to existing structures from
those documents, as described in Section 2. These changes are invoked when using the "cursor"
parameter when making SCIM search requests using GET or POST methods.

1.1.  Notational Conventions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Definitions

This document uses the terms defined in

Section 1.2 of [RFC7643]
.

2.  Query Parameters and Response Attributes

The following table describes the URL pagination query parameters for requesting cursor-based
pagination:

Parameter Description

cursor

The string value of the nextCursor attribute from a previous result page. The
cursor value
paginated query. This value may only contain characters from the unreserved
character set defined in

 be empty or omitted for the first request of a cursor-

Section 2.3 of [RFC3986]
.

MUST

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

Parameter Description

count

SHALL

 be interpreted as "0". A value of "0" indicates that no

Specifies the desired maximum number of query results per page, e.g., 10. A
negative value
resource results are to be returned except for "totalResults". When specified,
the service provider
 return fewer,
results. If unspecified, the maximum number returned is set by the service
provider.

 return more, although it

MUST NOT

MAY

Table 1: Query Parameters

The following table describes cursor-based pagination attributes returned in a paged query
response:

Element

Description

nextCursor

previousCursor

MAY

 be used in a subsequent request to obtain

A cursor value string that
the next page of results. Service providers supporting cursor-based
pagination
 include nextCursor in all paged query responses
except when returning the last page. nextCursor
a response only to indicate that there are no more result pages.

 be omitted from

MUST

MUST

A cursor value string that
the previous page of results. Returning previousCursor is
 be returned with the first page.
previousCursor

MUST NOT

MAY

 be used in a subsequent request to obtain

OPTIONAL

.

Table 2: Response Attributes

Cursor values are URL-safe strings that are opaque to the client. To retrieve another result page
for a query, the client
and values being identical to the initial query with the exception of the cursor value, which
 be set to a nextCursor (or previousCursor) value that was returned by the service
SHOULD
provider in a previous response.

 query the same service provider endpoint with all query parameters

MUST

For example, to retrieve the first 10 users with userName starting with J, use an empty cursor
and set the count to 10:

GET /Users?filter=userName%20sw%20J&cursor&count=10
Host: example.com
Accept: application/scim+json
Authorization: Bearer U8YJcYYRMjbGeepD

The SCIM service provider in response to the query above returns metadata regarding
pagination similar to the following example (Resources omitted for brevity):

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/scim+json

{
   "totalResults":100,
   "itemsPerPage":10,
   "nextCursor":"VZUTiyhEQJ94IR",
   "schemas":["urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:ListResponse"],
   "Resources":[{
      ...
   }]
}

Given the example above, to request the next page of results, use the same query parameters
and values except set the cursor to the value of nextCursor (VZUTiyhEQJ94IR):

GET /Users?filter=username%20sw%20J&cursor=VZUTiyhEQJ94IR&count=10
Host: example.com
Accept: application/scim+json
Authorization: Bearer U8YJcYYRMjbGeepD

The service provider responds with:

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/scim+json

{
   "totalResults": 100,
   "itemsPerPage": 10,
   "previousCursor: "ze7L30kMiiLX6x",
   "nextCursor": "YkU3OF86Pz0rGv",
   "schemas": ["urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:ListResponse"],
   "Resources":[{
      ...
   }]
}

In the example above, the response includes the optional previousCursor indicating that the
service provider supports forward and reverse traversal of result pages.

Section 3.4.1 of [RFC7644]

As described in
totalResults, which is the total number of resources for all pages. Service providers
implementing cursor pagination that are unable to estimate totalResults
totalResults attribute.

MAY

, service providers should return an accurate value for

 choose to omit the

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

2.1.  Pagination Errors

If a service provider encounters invalid pagination query parameters (invalid cursor value,
count value, etc) or other error conditions, the service provider
HTTP response status code and detailed JSON error response as defined in
[RFC7644]
.

Section 3.12 of

SHOULD

 return the appropriate

For HTTP status code 400 (Bad Request) responses, the following detail error types are defined.
These error types extend the list defined in Table 9 ("SCIM Detail Error Keyword Values") of
Section 3.12 of [RFC7644]

scimType

Description

invalidCursor

Cursor value is invalid. Cursor value
SHOULD
empty to request the first page and set to the
nextCursor or previousCursor value for
subsequent queries.

 be

Applicability

Section 3.4.2

GET (
of [RFC7644]
)

expiredCursor

Cursor has expired. Do not wait longer than service
provider's cursorTimeout to request additional
pages.

Section 3.4.2

GET (
of [RFC7644]
)

invalidCount

Count value is invalid. Count value must be between
0 and service provider's maxPageSize and must be
equal to the count value of the initial query.

Section 3.4.2

GET (
of [RFC7644]
)

Table 3: Pagination Errors

2.2.  Sorting

If sorting is implemented as described
should be sorted.

Section 3.4.2.3 of [RFC7644]

, then cursor-paged results

2.3.  Implementing Cursors as the Only Pagination Method

A service provider
including a nextCursor value in the response, even when the query does not include the cursor
parameter.

 require cursor-based pagination to retrieve all results for a query by

MAY

For example:

GET /Users
Host: example.com
Accept: application/scim+json

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

The service provider may respond to the above query with a page containing defaultPageSize
results and a nextCursor value as shown in the below example (Resources omitted for brevity):

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/scim+json

{
   "totalResults": 5000,
   "itemsPerPage": 100,
   "nextCursor": "HPq72Pax3JUaNa",
   "schemas": ["urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:ListResponse"],
   "Resources": [{
      ...
   }]
}

2.4.  Implementing Both Cursors and Index Pagination

When a service provider supports both index-based and cursor-based pagination, clients can use
the 'startIndex' or 'cursor' query parameters to request a specific method. Additionally, service
providers supporting both pagination methods
when responding to requests that have not specified a pagination query parameter.

 choose a default pagination method to use

MUST

Implementers of SCIM service providers that previously supported only index-based pagination
and are adding support for cursor-based pagination should use index as the default pagination
method to avoid incompatibility with clients that expect index-based pagination behaviors when
no pagination query parameters are specified.

Service Provider Configuration (Section 4)
 endpoint to determine if
SCIM clients can query the
index-based, cursor-based, or both types of pagination are supported and which of these is the
default.

3.  Querying Resources Using HTTP POST

Section 3.4.3 of [RFC7644]
 defines how clients may execute queries without passing parameters
on the URL by using the POST verb combined with the /.search path extension execute. When
posting to /.search, the client would pass the parameters defined in Section 2 in the body of the
POST request. For example:

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

POST /User/.search
Host: example.com
Accept: application/scim+json
Authorization: Bearer U8YJcYYRMjbGeepD

{
   "schemas": [
     "urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:SearchRequest"],
   "attributes": ["displayName", "userName"],
   "filter": "displayName sw \"smith\"",
   "cursor": "",
   "count": 10
}

Which would return a result containing a nextCursor value that may be used by the client in a
subsequent call to return the next page of resources:

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/scim+json

{
   "totalResults": 100,
   "itemsPerPage": 10,
   "nextCursor": "VZUTiyhEQJ94IR",
   "schemas": ["urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:ListResponse"],
   "Resources": [{
      ...
   }]
}

4.  Service Provider Configuration

 facilitates discovery of
The /ServiceProviderConfig resource defined in
SCIM service provider features. A SCIM service provider implementing cursor-based pagination
 include the following additional attribute in a JSON document returned by the /
SHOULD
ServiceProviderConfig endpoint:

Section 4 of [RFC7644]

pagination

A complex type that indicates pagination configuration options.

OPTIONAL

.

The following sub-attributes are defined:

cursor

A Boolean value specifying support of cursor-based pagination.

.
REQUIRED

index

A Boolean value specifying support of index-based pagination.

.
REQUIRED

defaultPaginationMethod

A string value specifying the type of pagination that the service

provider defaults to when the client has not specified which method it wishes to use. Possible
values are "cursor" and "index".

.
OPTIONAL

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

defaultPageSize

page when a count is not specified in the query.

Positive integer value specifying the default number of results returned in a
.
OPTIONAL

maxPageSize

Positive integer specifying the maximum number of results returned in a page

regardless of what is specified for the count in a query. The maximum number of results
returned may be further restricted by other criteria.

.
OPTIONAL

cursorTimeout

Positive integer specifying the minimum number of seconds that a cursor is
valid between page requests. Clients waiting too long between cursor pagination requests
may receive an invalid cursor error response. No value being specified may mean that there
is no cursor timeout or that the cursor timeout is not a static duration.

.
OPTIONAL

Service providers may choose not to advertise Service Provider Configuration information
regarding default pagination method, page size, or cursor validity. Clients
the lack of published Service Provider Configuration values to mean that no defaults or limits on
page sizes or cursor lifetimes exist, or that there is no default pagination method. Service
providers may choose not to publish values for the pagination sub-attributes for many reasons.
Examples include:

 interpret

MUST NOT

•

Service providers containing multiple resource types may have different values set for each
resource type.

•

Default and maximum page size may be determined by factors besides or in addition to the
number of resources returned, such as the size of each resource on the page.

Before using cursor-based pagination, a SCIM client
Configuration document from the SCIM service provider and verify that cursor-based pagination
is supported.

 fetch the Service Provider

MAY

For example:

GET /ServiceProviderConfig
Host: example.com
Accept: application/scim+json

A service provider supporting both cursor-based pagination and index- based pagination would
return a document similar to the following (full ServiceProviderConfig schema defined in
Section 5 of [RFC7643]

 has been omitted for brevity):

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/scim+json

{
   "schemas": [
      "urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:ServiceProviderConfig"],
      ...

   "pagination": {
      "cursor": true,
      "index": true,
      "defaultPaginationMethod": "cursor",
      "defaultPageSize": 100,
      "maxPageSize": 250,
      "cursorTimeout": 3600
   },

   ...
}

5.  Security Considerations

This section elaborates on the security considerations associated with the implementation of
cursor pagination in SCIM. This document is under the same security and privacy considerations
of those described in
following security aspects to safeguard against both deliberate attacks and inadvertent misuse
that may compromise the system's security posture.

. It is imperative that implementers additionally consider the

[RFC7644]

5.1.  Threat Model and Security Environment

The threat landscape is characterized by two primary types of actors:

1.

Unauthenticated and Authenticated Malicious Actors: These individuals or entities represent
a malevolent threat. Their objectives include unauthorized access to data, alteration, or
deletion through cursor-enabled queries. They may also seek to deplete service provider
resources deliberately, aiming to cause a denial-of-service state, thereby reducing service
availability.

2.

Authenticated Benign Users: This category includes legitimate users who, due to confusion
or a lack of understanding, inadvertently engage in actions that consume service-provider
resources excessively. Such actions, while not ill intended, can lead to unintended denial of
service by overwhelming the service provider's capacity.

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

5.2.  Confidentiality

To ensure that confidential data remains appropriately secured:

•

MUST

 ensure that pagination through results sets is strictly confined to the

Implementers
data that the actor's current identity has been authorized to access. This holds true even in
cases where the actor has obtained a cursor pertaining to a result set that was generated by
a different actor.

•

Authorization checks
set associated with a cursor. Under no circumstances should possession of a cursor be
interpreted as granting any supplementary access privileges to the actor.

 be continuously applied as an actor navigates through the result

MUST

•

SHOULD

When possible, service providers
immediately following a change in permissions. This ensures that any queries executed post-
permission change, utilizing old cursors, will be denied. As an alternative approach, service
providers may opt to retain the existing cursors but must ensure that any metadata tied to
the result set, such as record counts, is updated to reflect the new permissions accurately.

 invalidate all cursors corresponding to an actor

•

In alignment with Section 2, cursor values are URL-safe strings that are opaque to clients.
Service providers should obfuscate cursors values to prevent clients from interpreting
cursors or forging new cursors. Service providers should be able to easily detect forged
cursor values and immediately return an invalidCursor as described in Section 2.1.

•

MUST

 handle error scenarios without exposing sensitive data. For

The service provider
instance, if an actor attempts to access a page of results outside their authorized scope, or if
a request is made for a non-existent page, the service provider should respond with
identical error messages, so as not to disclose any details of the underlying data or the
nature of the authorization failure. It is acceptable, however, for the service provider to log
different messages to a log accessible by administrators or other authorized personnel.

5.3.  Availability

The concern for availability primarily stems from the potential for Denial-of-Service (DoS)
attacks. If the service provider elects to retain substantial data or metadata for each cursor,
numerous initial queries that allocate cursors could strain and eventually exhaust service-
provider resources. Such an attack could be orchestrated by an attacker with malicious intent or
could occur unintentionally as a result of client testing or bugs.

To mitigate risks, the following strategies are recommended for service providers:

•

Clients should authenticate to retrieve large result sets. Anonymous queries yielding
numerous results may return an HTTP status code 400 (Bad Request) with the error type
"tooMany," as outlined in

Section 3.12 of [RFC7644]
.

•

Implement rate limiting to control the volume and cadence of cursor requests. This
approach should adhere to established standards for rate limiting; details can be found in
[RFC6585]
.

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

•

Allow administrator of the service provider to set a ceiling on the number of cursors
permissible at any given time or to specify a maxPageSize value. Guidance on configuring
such values should be documented in the implementation administrator/installation guide.

•

Cursor invalidation mechanisms (including mechanisms triggered by permissions changes)
must be designed to be resource-efficient to prevent them from being exploited for DoS
attacks.

5.4.  Other Security References

Using URIs to describe and locate resources has its own set of security considerations, as
discussed in
 and
[RFC9110]
protocols.

 for additional security considerations that are relevant for underlying TLS and HTTP

. Implementations should also refer to

Section 7 of [RFC3986]

[BCP195]

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has amended the "System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM) Schema URIs"
registry group established by

 as described below.

[RFC7643]

IANA has updated the "SCIM Schema URIs for Data Resources" registry as follows:

•

For the urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:ListResponse, Section 2 of this
document has been added to the References column.

•

For the urn:ietf:params:scim:api:messages:2.0:SearchRequest, Section 2 of this
document has been added to the References column.

IANA has updated the "SCIM Server-Related Schema URIs" registry as follows:

•

For the urn:ietf:params:scim:schemas:core:2.0:ServiceProviderConfig, Section 4 of
this document has been added to the References column.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

[RFC6585]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
(URI): Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>
.

, and
,

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier

,

,

, January 2005,

Nottingham, M.
10.17487/RFC6585

R. Fielding "Additional HTTP Status Codes" RFC 6585 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6585>

, April 2012,

,

,

.

 and

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

[RFC7643]

[RFC7644]

[RFC8174]

,

Hunt, P., Ed. Grizzle, K. Wahlstroem, E.
domain Identity Management: Core Schema" RFC 7643 DOI 10.17487/RFC7643
September 2015,

C. Mortimore "System for Cross-
, and
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7643>

,

,

,

.

,

,

Hunt, P., Ed. Grizzle, K. Ansari, M. Wahlstroem, E.
, and
for Cross-domain Identity Management: Protocol" RFC 7644 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC7644

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7644>

, September 2015,

C. Mortimore "System

,

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

7.2.  Informative References

[BCP195]

Best Current Practice 195,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp195>
.

Moriarty, K.
DOI 10.17487/RFC8996

 and

S. Farrell "Deprecating TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1" BCP 195 RFC 8996
,

,

,

,

, March 2021,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8996>

.

,

, and

Sheffer, Y. Saint-Andre, P.
,
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)"
BCP 195 RFC 9325 DOI 10.17487/RFC9325
editor.org/info/rfc9325>

T. Fossati "Recommendations for Secure Use of

, November 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

.

,

[RFC9110]

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Acknowledgments

The authors would also like to acknowledge the following individuals who provided valuable
feedback while reviewing the document:
Pamela Dingle
.

Aaron Parecki David Brossard Dean H. Saxe

, and

,

,

Contributors

The authors would like to acknowledge the contribution of
writing of the Security Considerations section.

Paul Lanzi

 (IDenovate) in leading the

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Matt Peterson (
Entrust
Email:

matt.peterson@entrust.com

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9865

SCIM Cursor Pagination

October 2025

Danny Zollner
Independent
Email:

danny@zollnerd.com

Anjali Sehgal
Amazon Web Services
Email:

anjalisg@amazon.com

Peterson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

