Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9819
9252
Standards Track
July 2025
2070-1721
K. Talaulikar
Cisco Systems

K. Raza
Cisco Systems

J. Rabadan
Nokia

W. Lin
Juniper Networks

RFC 9819
Argument Signaling for BGP Services in Segment
Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)

Abstract

RFC 9252 defines procedures and messages for BGP overlay services for Segment Routing over
IPv6 (SRv6), including Layer 3 Virtual Private Network (L3VPN), Ethernet VPN (EVPN), and
global Internet routing. This document updates RFC 9252 and provides more detailed
specifications for the signaling and processing of SRv6 Segment Identifier advertisements for
BGP overlay service routes associated with SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors that support arguments.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9819
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9819

SRv6 Argument Signaling for BGP Services

July 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  Advertisement of SRv6 SID and Arguments

3.  End.DT2M Signaling for EVPN ESI Filtering

3.1.  Advertisement of Ethernet A-D per ES Route

3.2.  Advertisement of Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag Route

3.3.  Processing at Ingress PE

4.  Backward Compatibility

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  Security Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

4

5

6

7

10

11

11

11

11

12

12

12

[RFC8402]

. An SRv6
 can be associated with one of the service-specific SRv6

SRv6 refers to Segment Routing instantiated over the IPv6 data plane
Segment Identifier (SID)
Endpoint Behaviors on the advertising Provider Edge (PE) router for Layer 3 Virtual Private
Network (L3VPN), global Internet routing, and Ethernet VPN (EVPN) services as defined in
[RFC8986]
procedures and messages for the signaling of BGP overlay services including L3VPN, EVPN, and
Internet services using SRv6.

. Such SRv6 SIDs are referred to as SRv6 Service SIDs.

 defines the

[RFC9252]

[RFC8402]

For certain EVPN services,
Behavior, which utilizes arguments (i.e., Arg.FE2).
 subsequently specified the
encoding and signaling procedures for the SRv6 SID and its associated argument via the

Section 4.12 of [RFC8986]

 introduced the End.DT2M SRv6 Endpoint

[RFC9252]

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9819

SRv6 Argument Signaling for BGP Services

July 2025

Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route (EVPN Route Type 3) and the Ethernet A-D (Auto-
Discovery) per ES route (EVPN Route Type 1), respectively. However, during implementation and
interoperability testing, it was observed that the specifications outlined in
sufficient detail, leading to ambiguities in interpretation and implementation.

[RFC9252]

 lack

[RFC9252]

 by providing additional details and clarifications regarding

This document updates
the signaling of SRv6 Service SIDs associated with SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors that utilize
arguments. While the focus is primarily on the signaling of the End.DT2M SRv6 Endpoint
Behavior via the Ethernet A-D per ES route and Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route, the
procedures described herein are also applicable to other similar SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors with
arguments that may be signaled using BGP.

 specifies that the SRv6 Service SID used in the data plane is derived by

Section 6.3 of [RFC9252]
applying a bitwise logical-OR operation between the SID with an argument signaled via the
Ethernet A-D per ES route and the SID with the 'Locator + Function' components signaled via the
Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route. However, this approach assumes a uniform SID structure
across all SIDs advertised via the Ethernet A-D per ES route and Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag
route. This assumption is not universally valid, and the procedures in this document remove this
restriction, ensuring greater flexibility in SRv6 SID signaling.

Section 4 of [RFC9252]

). Consequently, the Transposition Offset (TPOS-O) and

The descriptions and examples presented in this document do not utilize the Transposition
Scheme (see
Transposition Length (TPOS-L) are set to zero, and references to MPLS label fields where the
function or argument portions may be transposed are omitted. However, the same examples
could be applied with the Transposition Scheme. This document does not introduce any
modifications to the use of the Transposition Scheme in the signaling of EVPN routes.
Implementations are expected to adhere to the procedures and recommendations specified in
[RFC9252]

 concerning the Transposition Scheme.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Advertisement of SRv6 SID and Arguments

 defines the format of an SRv6 SID as consisting of three components:

Section 3.1 of [RFC8986]
Locator (LOC), Function (FUNC), and Argument (ARG). For SRv6 SIDs associated with SRv6
Endpoint Behaviors that do not support arguments, the ARG component is not present.
Consequently, all bits following the FUNC portion
(AL)

 be set to zero, and the Argument Length

 be zero.

MUST

MUST

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9819

SRv6 Argument Signaling for BGP Services

July 2025

Section
Certain SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors (e.g., End.DT2M) support arguments. As specified in
3.2.1 of [RFC9252]
 be included when signaling an
SRv6 SID corresponding to an SRv6 Endpoint Behavior that supports argument. This ensures
that the receiving router can perform consistency verification of the argument and correctly
encode the ARG value within the SRv6 SID.

, the SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV

MUST

In certain use cases, the SRv6 SID can be signaled as a complete structure, with the
LOC:FUNC:ARG components fully encoded within the SID. However, there are scenarios where
the SRv6 SID, consisting only of the LOC:FUNC portion, is signaled in one advertisement, while
the ARG value is either signaled through a separate advertisement or learned via an alternative
mechanism. It is the responsibility of the SRv6 source node to append the ARG component to the
LOC:FUNC portion, thereby constructing the complete SRv6 SID (LOC:FUNC:ARG). This fully
formed SID can then be utilized in the data plane, either as the IPv6 destination address of a
packet or as a segment within the Segment Routing Header (SRH)

, as required.

[RFC8754]

Since arguments may be optional, the SRv6 endpoint node that owns the SID
SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV along with the LOC:FUNC portion of the SRv6 SID to indicate
whether arguments are supported for that specific SID. A zero AL value indicates that the node
does not accept an argument for the given SRv6 SID. Conversely, a non-zero AL value specifies
the size of the supported argument, along with the Locator Block Length (LBL), Locator Node
Length (LNL), and Function Length (FL) parameters, which define the offset from which the
node expects the ARG to be encoded. All bits beyond LBL + LNL + FL + AL

 be set to zero.

MUST

MUST

 advertise the

The advertisement of the ARG value may be performed either by the node that owns the SRv6
SID and is advertising the LOC:FUNC portion of that SID or by another node/mechanism. The
advertisement of the ARG value
associated SRv6 Endpoint Behavior of the SID. Additionally, the specification of the association of
the ARG advertisement with the corresponding SID(s) for which the argument applies is
.
REQUIRED

 specify the size of the argument, its value, and the

MUST

3.  End.DT2M Signaling for EVPN ESI Filtering

[RFC9252]

, the LOC:FUNC portion of the SRv6 SID with End.DT2M behavior is

As specified in
signaled via the Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route, while the Ethernet Segment Identifier
[RFC8986]
(ESI) Filtering ARG (denoted as Arg.FE2 in
route. The following subsections provide a more detailed specification of the signaling and
processing mechanisms compared to

) is signaled via the Ethernet A-D per ES

[RFC9252]
.

ESI Filtering is a split-horizon mechanism used for multihoming
Tree) procedures

. ESI Filtering is not applicable in scenarios where:

[RFC7432]

[RFC8317]

 or Ethernet-Tree (E-

•

No E-Tree leaf Broadcast, Unknown Unicast, or Multicast (BUM) traffic exists,

•

No multihoming is present,

•

No split-horizon mechanism is required, or

•

The "Local Bias" method (as specified in

[RFC8365]

) is employed.

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9819

SRv6 Argument Signaling for BGP Services

July 2025

In this document, "ESI Filtering" is used as a general reference to the procedure performed by
the disposition Provider Edge (PE) router to prevent forwarding of BUM traffic to local Ethernet
Segments or local leaf attachment circuits, based on the presence of the ESI Filtering ARG.

The signaling and processing descriptions outlined in the following sections also apply to
End.DT2M behavior flavors designed for SRv6 SID list compression
. In deployments
where a mix of compressed and uncompressed SIDs is present, the behaviors advertised in the
Ethernet A-D per ES routes and Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag routes
combination of compressed and uncompressed End.DT2M behavior flavors. The procedures in
this document remain valid for such deployments provided that the AL consistency checks
between the Ethernet A-D per ES route and Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route, as described
in the following subsections, are satisfied.

 consist of a

[RFC9800]

MAY

3.1.  Advertisement of Ethernet A-D per ES Route

Ethernet A-D per ES routes, as defined in
and fast convergence in multihoming scenarios. Additionally, Ethernet A-D per ES routes
[RFC8317]
.
facilitate egress filtering of BUM traffic originating from a leaf, as specified in

, are utilized to enable split-horizon filtering

[RFC7432]

When ESI Filtering is not in use, no ESI Filtering ARG is required to be conveyed. However, for
backward compatibility and consistency with
include the BGP Prefix-SID attribute with an SRv6 L2 Service TLV carrying an SRv6 Service SID
set to ::0 in the SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV, with the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior set to
End.DT2M. Since the End.DT2M behavior supports the use of an ARG, an SRv6 SID Structure Sub-
Sub-TLV
be set to 0.

 be included. As no ARG value is required to be signaled in this case, the AL

, the advertisement of this route

[RFC9252]

MUST

MUST

SHOULD

The following is an example representation of the BGP Prefix-SID attribute encoding in this case:

BGP Prefix-SID attribute:
    SRv6 L2 Service TLV:
        SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV:
            SID: ::
            Behavior: End.DT2M
            SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV:
                LBL: 32, LNL: 16, FL: 16, AL: 0, TPOS-L: 0, TPOS-O: 0

Figure 1: Ethernet A-D per ES Route Without ARG for ESI Filtering

When ESI Filtering is in use, the advertisement of this route
attribute with an SRv6 L2 Service TLV carrying the SRv6 Service SID that contains the ESI
Filtering ARG value within the SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV (when not using the Transposition
Scheme), with the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior set to End.DT2M. Since the End.DT2M behavior
supports the use of an ARG, an SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV
as a non-zero ARG value is being signaled, the AL

 be set to the size of the ARG, and the size

 include the BGP Prefix-SID

 be included. Additionally,

MUST

MUST

MUST

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9819

SRv6 Argument Signaling for BGP Services

July 2025

 be a multiple of 8 to ensure consistency across implementations for ease of operations.

SHOULD
The SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV
MUST
indicate the offset at which the ARG value is encoded within the 128-bit SRv6 SID.

 set the LBL, LNL, and FL fields with values that

The following is an example representation of the BGP Prefix-SID attribute encoding in this
scenario for a 16-bit argument value of 'aaaa':

BGP Prefix-SID attribute:
    SRv6 L2 Service TLV:
        SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV:
            SID: ::aaaa:0:0:0
            Behavior: End.DT2M
            SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV:
                LBL: 32, LNL: 16, FL: 16, AL: 16, TPOS-L: 0, TPOS-O: 0

Figure 2: Ethernet A-D per ES Route with ARG for ESI Filtering

In the examples above, it would have been possible to set the LBL, LNL, and FL values to 0 and
to encode the SRv6 SID as either ::0 or aaaa::. However, such an encoding would not be
backward compatible with

, as further detailed in Section 4.

[RFC9252]

Therefore, it is
structure for End.DT2M SRv6 Service SIDs, ensuring compliance with

 that the LBL, LNL, and FL values be set in accordance with the SID

[RFC9252]
.

REQUIRED

3.2.  Advertisement of Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag Route

The Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route, as defined in
multicast traffic reachability information via Multiprotocol BGP (MP-BGP) to all other PE routers
within a given EVPN instance. When utilizing SRv6 transport, the advertisement of this route
MUST
SRv6.

 include the BGP Prefix-SID attribute with an SRv6 L2 Service TLV to indicate the use of

, is used to advertise

[RFC7432]

Regardless of whether ESI Filtering is in use, the SRv6 Service SID
LOC:FUNC portion within the SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV (when not utilizing the
Transposition Scheme), with the SRv6 Endpoint Behavior set to End.DT2M. Since the End.DT2M
behavior supports the use of an ARG, an SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV
 be included. The
LBL, LNL, and FL fields
advertised.

 be set to indicate the structure of the SRv6 Service SID being

 include only the

MUST

MUST

MUST

When ESI Filtering is not in use, no ARG is expected to be received by the router along with the
advertised SRv6 Service SID. Therefore, the AL

 be set to 0.

MUST

The following is an example representation of the BGP Prefix-SID attribute encoding in this case:

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9819

SRv6 Argument Signaling for BGP Services

July 2025

BGP Prefix-SID attribute:
    SRv6 L2 Service TLV:
        SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV:
            SID: 2001:db8:1:fbd1::
            Behavior: End.DT2M
            SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV:
                LBL: 32, LNL: 16, FL: 16, AL: 0, TPOS-L: 0, TPOS-O: 0

Figure 3: Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag Route Without ESI Filtering

When ESI Filtering is in use, the router expects to receive traffic in the data path to the SRv6
Service SID that it has signaled along with the ARG portion embedded in it. Consequently, the AL
 be set to the size of the ARG supported by the advertising router for the specific SRv6
MUST
Service SID. The AL value is unique per End.DT2M behavior signaled by the egress PE.
Therefore, the egress PE
circuits within the same broadcast domain.

 use the same AL for all local Ethernet Segments with attachment

MUST

The following is an example representation of the BGP Prefix-SID attribute encoding for this
scenario with a 16-bit argument:

BGP Prefix-SID attribute:
    SRv6 L2 Service TLV:
        SRv6 SID Information Sub-TLV:
            SID: 2001:db8:1:fbd1::
            Behavior: End.DT2M
            SRv6 SID Structure Sub-Sub-TLV:
                LBL: 32, LNL: 16, FL: 16, AL: 16, TPOS-L: 0, TPOS-O: 0

Figure 4: Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag Route with ESI Filtering

When ESI Filtering is in use, the advertising router
Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route is equal to the AL signaled in the corresponding Ethernet
A-D per ES route.

 ensure that the AL signaled in the

MUST

3.3.  Processing at Ingress PE

An ingress PE receives the LOC:FUNC portion of the SRv6 Service SID to be used for BUM traffic
through Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route advertisements.

When ESI Filtering is not in use, the SRv6 Service SID to be used consists solely of the LOC:FUNC
portion received via the Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route.

When ESI Filtering is in use, the ESI Filtering ARG of the SRv6 Service SID is signaled through the
Ethernet A-D per ES route. The ARG, in combination with the LOC:FUNC portion received via the
Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route, forms the SRv6 Service SID to be used.

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9819

SRv6 Argument Signaling for BGP Services

July 2025

Since the LOC:FUNC and ARG portions of the SRv6 Service SID are signaled via different route
advertisements, there may be cases where the ingress PE receives inconsistent AL values from
the two route types. If the ingress PE expects ESI Filtering to be in use (i.e., when forwarding
BUM traffic to other PEs attached to a shared Ethernet Segment) but does not receive a usable
ARG value during processing, it

 log a message to facilitate troubleshooting.

SHOULD

The ingress PE router
MUST
Service SID advertisements:

 follow the processing steps outlined below when handling SRv6

1.

If AL=0 is signaled via the Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route, then the egress PE either
does not support ESI Filtering or does not require an ESI Filtering ARG for the specific SID.
In this case, the SRv6 Service SID is formed using only the LOC:FUNC portion, and all bits
 be set to zero for encoding on the data path. Additionally, the
after LBL + LNL + FL
router
MUST
Ethernet A-D per ES route.

 ignore the SID value and its SID structure advertised in the corresponding

MUST

2.

If a non-zero AL is signaled via the Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route, then the
matching Ethernet A-D per ES route for the Ethernet Segment is located and the presence of
an SRv6 SID advertisement with the End.DT2M behavior is verified.

a.

If the presence of such a SRv6 SID is not verified, or if the AL is zero in the Ethernet A-D
per ES route, then no usable ARG value is available. The SRv6 Service SID
as described in (1) above.

MUST

 be formed

b.

If the AL values in the Ethernet A-D per ES route and Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag
route are both non-zero but not equal, then no usable ARG value is available. This
inconsistency in signaling from the egress PE indicates a configuration error. To prevent
 be forwarded for such routes from the specific
potential looping, BUM traffic
Ethernet Segment. Implementations
 log an error message for troubleshooting
this condition.

MUST NOT

SHOULD

c.

If the AL values in the Ethernet A-D per ES route and Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag
route are both non-zero and equal, then the ARG value from the Ethernet A-D per ES route
is considered valid. This ARG value
the ARG offset as specified in the SID structure (i.e., LBL + LNL + FL) in the Inclusive
Multicast Ethernet Tag route. All bits beyond LBL + LNL + FL + AL

 be encoded within the SRv6 SID (LOC:FUNC) at

 be set to zero.

MUST

MUST

Using the procedures above with the examples in Figures 1 and 3, the SRv6 Service SID encoding
for the data plane without an ESI Filtering ARG is as follows:

Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route:
 SID: 2001:db8:1:fbd1::
 Structure: LBL: 32, LNL: 16, FL: 16, AL: 0

SRv6 Service SID Encoded for Datapath: 2001:db8:1:fbd1::

Figure 5: SRv6 Service SID Encoding for Data Plane Without ARG

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9819

SRv6 Argument Signaling for BGP Services

July 2025

Using the procedures above with the examples in Figures 2 and 4, the SRv6 Service SID encoding
for the data plane along with an ESI Filtering ARG is as follows:

Ethernet A-D per ES route:
 SID: ::aaaa:0:0:0
 Structure: LBL: 32, LNL: 16, FL: 16, AL: 16

Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route:
 SID: 2001:db8:1:fbd1::
 Structure: LBL: 32, LNL: 16, FL: 16, AL: 16

SRv6 Service SID Encoded for Datapath: 2001:db8:1:fbd1:aaaa::

Figure 6: SRv6 Service SID Encoding for Data Plane with ARG

Figure 7 provides another example that illustrates the signaling and processing of multiple
bridge domains in a deployment design.

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9819

SRv6 Argument Signaling for BGP Services

July 2025

                     +--------------------------------+
                     |                                |
                 PE1 |                                |
                 +---------+                          |
  BUM on BD1     | +-----+ |                          |
+----------------> | BD1 |-------------+              |
|                | +-----+ |           |              |
|  BUM on BD2    | +-----+ |           v          PE3 |
| +--------------> | BD2 |-------+             +---------+
| |        +-----| +-----+ |     |             | +-----+ |
+----+     |     +---------+     v     ^       | | BD1 |-----CE31
|    |     |         |                 |       | +-----+ |
|CE12|-----+ ESI-1   |           ^     |       | +-----+ |
|    |-----+         |           |     |       | | BD2 |-----CE32
+----+     |     +---------+ ^   RT3   RT3     | +-----+ |
           +-----| +-----+ | |   dt2m  dt2m    +---------+
                 | | BD1 | | |   BD2   BD1            |
                 | +-----+ | |   FL:16 FL:32          |
                 | +-----+ | RT1                      |
                 | | BD2 | | ESI-1                    |
                 | +-----+ | AL:16                    |
                 +---------+                          |
                  PE2 |                               |
                      |                               |
                      |                               |
                      +-------------------------------+

 Ethernet A-D per ES route for ESI-1:
  SID: ::aaaa:0:0:0
  Structure: LBL: 32, LNL: 16, FL: 16, AL: 16

 Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route from BD1:
  SID: 2001:db8:1:fbd1:fbd1:
  Structure: LBL: 32, LNL: 16, FL: 32, AL: 16

 Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route from BD2:
  SID: 2001:db8:1:fbd2::
  Structure: LBL: 32, LNL: 16, FL: 16, AL: 16

 SRv6 Service SID for datapath from ingress PE1 to egress PE2 on BD1:
  2001:db8:1:fbd1:fbd1:aaaa::
 SRv6 Service SID for datapath from ingress PE1 to egress PE2 on BD2:
  2001:db8:1:fbd2:aaaa::

Figure 7: Example with Multiple Bridge Domains

4.  Backward Compatibility

Existing implementations that rely on the bitwise logical-OR operation, as specified in
of [RFC9252]
identical.

, function correctly only when the SID structures of the two EVPN route types are

Section 6.3

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9819

SRv6 Argument Signaling for BGP Services

July 2025

Backward compatibility with implementations performing the bitwise logical-OR operation is
maintained when the Inclusive Multicast Ethernet Tag route and its corresponding Ethernet A-D
per ES route advertise SIDs with the same SID structure, as outlined in Sections 3.1 and 3.2.

However, when the SID structures of the two route types are not identical, the bitwise logical-OR
operation specified in
 cannot be applied. Instead, the alternative method specified in
Section 3.3

 be used to correctly derive the SRv6 Service SID in such cases.

[RFC9252]

MUST

5.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

6.  Security Considerations

This document provides a more detailed specification related to the signaling and processing of
SRv6 SID advertisements for SRv6 Endpoint Behaviors with arguments. As such, it does not
introduce any new security considerations over and above those already covered by

[RFC9252]
.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7432]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8317]

[RFC8402]

[RFC8986]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Aggarwal, R. Bitar, N. Isaac, A. Uttaro, J. Drake, J.
Henderickx "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN" RFC 7432 DOI 10.17487/RFC7432
February 2015,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7432>
.

, and

,
,

W.

,

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Salam, S. Drake, J. Uttaro, J. Boutros, S.
,
"Ethernet-Tree (E-Tree) Support in Ethernet VPN (EVPN) and Provider
Backbone Bridging EVPN (PBB-EVPN)" RFC 8317 DOI 10.17487/RFC8317
January 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8317>

J. Rabadan

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Previdi, S., Ed. Ginsberg, L. Decraene, B. Litkowski, S.
Shakir "Segment Routing Architecture" RFC 8402 DOI 10.17487/RFC8402
2018,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8402>

,

,

,

,

,

.

, and

R.
, July

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Camarillo, P., Ed. Leddy, J. Voyer, D. Matsushima, S.
"Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6) Network Programming" RFC 8986 DOI
10.17487/RFC8986

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8986>

, February 2021,

, and
,

Z. Li

,

,

,

,

.

,

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9819

SRv6 Argument Signaling for BGP Services

July 2025

[RFC9252]

,

Dawra, G., Ed. Talaulikar, K., Ed. Raszuk, R. Decraene, B. Zhuang, S.
Rabadan "BGP Overlay Services Based on Segment Routing over IPv6 (SRv6)"
RFC 9252 DOI 10.17487/RFC9252
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, July 2022,
rfc9252>

,
,
.

, and

J.

,

,

,

,

7.2.  Informative References

[RFC8365]

[RFC8754]

[RFC9800]

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Drake, J., Ed. Bitar, N. Shekhar, R. Uttaro, J.
"A Network Virtualization Overlay Solution Using Ethernet VPN (EVPN)" RFC
8365 DOI 10.17487/RFC8365
,
rfc8365>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

W. Henderickx
,

, March 2018,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Filsfils, C., Ed. Dukes, D., Ed. Previdi, S. Leddy, J. Matsushima, S.
"IPv6 Segment Routing Header (SRH)" RFC 8754 DOI 10.17487/RFC8754
2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8754>

, and

,
,

,

,

.

,

D. Voyer
,
, March

,

Cheng, W., Ed. Filsfils, C. Li, Z. Decraene, B.
Segment List Encoding" RFC 9800 DOI 10.17487/RFC9800
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9800>

, and

,
,

,
.

,

F. Clad, Ed. "Compressed SRv6

,

, June 2025,

<https://

Acknowledgments

,
,

,
, and

Jayshree Subramanian Sonal Agarwal Swadesh
,

The authors would like to acknowledge
Agrawal Dongling Duan Luc André Burdet Patrice Brissette Senthil Sathappan Erel Ortacdag
Neil Hart Will Lockhart
aspects related to the signaling of the End.DT2M SRv6 Endpoint Behavior that required
clarification. The authors thank
improving the document. The authors would also like to thank
extensive review and suggestions for improving the readability of the document.

,
 for their review of the document and input on

 for his shepherd review and suggestions for
 for his

Gunter Van de Velde

Vinod Prabhu

Jeffrey Zhang

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Ketan Talaulikar
Cisco Systems
India
Email:

ketant.ietf@gmail.com

Kamran Raza
Cisco Systems
Canada
Email:

skraza@cisco.com

Jorge Rabadan
Nokia
United States of America
Email:

jorge.rabadan@nokia.com

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9819

SRv6 Argument Signaling for BGP Services

July 2025

Wen Lin
Juniper Networks
United States of America
Email:
wlin@juniper.net

Talaulikar, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

