Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9410
Standards Track
July 2023
2070-1721
C. Wendt
Somos Inc.

RFC 9410
Handling of Identity Header Errors for Secure
Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR)

Abstract

This document extends the current error-handling procedures for mapping of verification failure
reasons to 4xx codes for Secure Telephone Identity Revisited (STIR) and the Authenticated
Identity Management in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP). It extends the ability to use the
Reason header field as an option for conveying an error associated with an Identity header field
to the upstream authentication service when local policy dictates that the call should continue in
the presence of a verification failure. This document also defines procedures that enable a failure
reason to be mapped to a specific Identity header field for scenarios that use multiple Identity
header fields, where some may have errors and others may not. The handling of those situations
is also defined.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9410
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Wendt

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9410

Identity Header Errors Handling for STIR

July 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Reason Header Field Protocol "STIR"

4.  Use of Provisional Response to Signal Errors without Terminating the Call

5.  Handling of a Verification Error When There Are Multiple Identity Header Fields

6.  Handling Multiple Verification Errors

7.  Removal of the Reason Header Field by Authentication Service

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

3

3

3

4

5

5

5

6

6

6

7

7

7

[RFC7340]

 is an authentication framework for asserting a

The STIR framework as described in
telephone number or URI-based identity using a digital signature and certificate-based
framework, as described
 and
the STIR framework in the SIP protocol
that creates a PASSporT
verification service that correspondingly verifies the PASSporT and embedded originating
identity.

, respectively.
 describes the use of
. It defines both a) the authentication service

 and delivers it in an Identity header field, and b) the

[RFC8226]
[RFC3261]

[RFC8225]

[RFC8225]

[RFC8224]

Wendt

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9410

Identity Header Errors Handling for STIR

July 2023

This document is concerned with errors in validating PASSporTs and Identity header fields and
how they are communicated in special cases. This document also defines a solution to help
address the potential issue of multiple Identity header fields and the plurality of potential
verification errors. Additionally, it addresses the issue of the current 4xx error response, i.e., the
call is terminated when a verification error is present. In some deployments, it may be the case
that the policy for handling errors dictates that calls should continue even if there is a
verification error. For example, in many cases of inadvertent or operational errors that do not
represent any type of identity falsification attempt, the preferred policy may be to continue the
call despite the unverified identity. In these cases, the authentication service should still be
notified of the error so that corrective action can be taken to fix any issues. This specification will
discuss the use of the Reason header field in subsequent provisional (1xx) responses in order to
deliver the error back to the authentication service or other SIP path network equipment
responsible for error handling.

To handle multiple Identity header fields where some in a call may be verified while others may
not (i.e., they have errors), this document defines a method by which an identifier is added to the
header so that the authentication service can uniquely identify which Identity header field is
being referred to in the case of an error.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Reason Header Field Protocol "STIR"

[RFC3326]

[RFC8224]

This document defines a new Reason header field
applications using SIP as defined in
protocol with the error defined in
header fields as detailed in
message or final response message, with the exception of a 100 (Trying),
more Reason header fields with a STIR-related cause code defined in
specifications. The use of multiple Reason header fields is discussed in more detail later in the
document.

 causes codes to allow the use of multiple Reason
. Any provisional SIP response

. The use of "STIR" as a Reason header field

 contain one or
 or future

 protocol, "STIR", for STIR

MAY
[RFC8224]

 and updated in

[RFC9366]

[RFC8224]

[RFC3326]

4.  Use of Provisional Response to Signal Errors without
Terminating the Call

In cases where local policy dictates that a call should continue regardless of any verification
Section 6.2.2 of [RFC8224]
errors that may have occurred, including 4xx errors described in
verification service
response code and reason phrase in a Reason header field in the next provisional or final
response it sends to the authentication service.

 send the 4xx as a response. Rather, it should include the error

MUST NOT

, the

Wendt

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9410

Identity Header Errors Handling for STIR

July 2023

Example Reason header field:

Reason: STIR ;cause=436 ;text="Bad Identity Info"

5.  Handling of a Verification Error When There Are Multiple
Identity Header Fields

MUST

MUST

[RFC3326]

RECOMMENDED

 represent the error that occurred when verifying the contents of the

In cases where a SIP message includes multiple Identity header fields and one of those Identity
 include the error response code and
header fields has an error, the verification service
reason phrase associated with the error in a Reason header field, defined in
, in the
next provisional or final responses sent to the authentication service. The reason cause in the
Reason header field
Identity header field. For a SIP INVITE containing multiple Identity header fields, the "ppi"
parameter for the Reason header field is
codes used in responses are based on an error associated with a specific Identity header field
representing a single error occurring with the verification and processing of that Identity header
field. The association of a "ppi" parameter with a Reason header field
protocol value of "STIR" defined in this document
[RFC3261]
[RFC3326]
 in the context of a call dialog
codes defined in
associated PASSporT object can be included either in full form or in compact form, where only
the signature of the PASSporT is included with two periods as a prefix, as defined in
[RFC8225]
recommended form, as full form may include information that could have privacy or security
implications in some call scenarios; this is discussed in Section 9.

 using the
 only identify a single cause code
MUST
 corresponding only to the STIR-related error

, to identify the reported Identity header field with an error. Compact form is the

 or future documents defining STIR-related error codes. The

, the STIR error

. As defined in

Section 7 of

[RFC8224]

[RFC3326]

[RFC8224]

Example Reason header field with a full form PASSporT:

Reason: STIR ;cause=436 ;text="Bad Identity Info" ;ppi= \
"eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6InBhc3Nwb3J0IiwieDV1I \
joiaHR0cHM6Ly9jZXJ0LmV4YW1wbGUub3JnL3Bhc3Nwb3J0LmNlciJ9.eyJ \
kZXN0Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJzaXA6YWxpY2VAZXhhbXBsZS5jb20iXX0sImlhdC \
I6IjE0NDMyMDgzNDUiLCJvcmlnIjp7InRuIjoiMTIxNTU1NTEyMTIifX0.r \
q3pjT1hoRwakEGjHCnWSwUnshd0-zJ6F1VOgFWSjHBr8Qjpjlk-cpFYpFYs \
ojNCpTzO3QfPOlckGaS6hEck7w"

Example Reason header field with a compact form PASSporT:

Reason: STIR ;cause=436 ;text="Bad Identity Info" ;ppi= \
"..rq3pjT1akEGjHCnWSwUnshd0-zJ6F1VOgFWSjHBr8Qjpjlk-cpFYpFYs \
ojNCpTzO3QfPOlckGaS6hEck7w"

Wendt

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9410

Identity Header Errors Handling for STIR

July 2023

6.  Handling Multiple Verification Errors

MUST

 include a corresponding number of Reason header fields per error. These Reason

If there are multiple Identity header field verification errors being reported, the verification
service
header fields should include a "ppi" parameter, including the full or compact form of the
PASSporT with cause and text parameters identifying each error. As mentioned previously, the
[RFC9366]
potential use of multiple Reason header fields defined in
,
allowing multiple Reason header fields with the same protocol value. For this specification,
"STIR" should be used for any STIR error defined in

 or future specifications.

 is updated in

[RFC8224]

[RFC3326]

Example Reason header fields for two identity info errors:

Reason: STIR ;cause=436 ;text="Bad Identity Info" ;ppi=     \
"..rq3pjT1hoRwakEGjHCnWSwUnshd0-zJ6F1VOgFWSjHBr8Qjpjlk-cpFY \
pFYsojNCpTzO3QfPOlckGaS6hEck7w"

Reason: STIR ;cause=438 ;text="Invalid Identity Header" ;ppi=  \
"..rJ6F1VOgFWSjHBr8Qjpjlk-cpFYpFYsq3pjT1hoRwakEGjHCnWSwUnsh \
d0-zckGaS6hEck7wojNCpTzO3QfPOl"

7.  Removal of the Reason Header Field by Authentication
Service

[RFC8224]

 receives the Reason header field with a PASSporT it

When an authentication service
generated as part of an Identity header field and the authentication of a call, it should first follow
local policy to recognize and acknowledge the error (e.g., perform operational actions like
logging or alarming). Then, it
 remove the identified Reason header field to avoid the
PASSporT information from going upstream to a User Agent Client (UAC) or User Agent Server
(UAS) that may not be authorized to see claim information contained in the PASSporT for privacy
or other reasons.

MUST

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has registered the following new protocol value (and associated protocol cause) in the
"Reason Protocols" registry under

<http://www.iana.org/assignments/sip-parameters>
:

Protocol Value

Protocol Cause

Reference

STIR

Table 1

STIR Error code

[RFC8224]

IANA has also registered a new header field parameter name in the "Header Field Parameters
and Parameter Values" registry under

<https://www.iana.org/assignments/sip-parameters>
:

Wendt

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9410

Identity Header Errors Handling for STIR

July 2023

Header Field

Parameter Name

Predefined Values

Reference

Reason

ppi

No

RFC 9410

Table 2

9.  Security Considerations

This specification discusses the use of a PASSporT as an identifier for cases where there are
multiple identity header field errors occurring as part of the Reason header field response. For
some call scenarios (e.g., diversion-based call flows), the signer of the PASSporT(s) may not be the
first-hop initiator of the call. In those cases, there may be some security or privacy concerns
associated with PASSporT information that is passed upstream beyond the authentication service
that originally signed the PASSporT(s) in the resulting error Reason header field. This
specification states that the authentication service
PASSporT to protect the security (e.g., use of a potentially still-fresh PASSporT for replay attacks)
and privacy of any potential information that could be passed beyond the authentication service
response back in the direction of the call initiator. While this specification allows for both the full
and compact form of the PASSporT to be used as the error identifier, use of the compact form is
 to avoid the potential exposure of call information contained in the full form of
RECOMMENDED
the PASSporT.

 remove the Reason header field with the

MUST

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3261]

[RFC3326]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8224]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Rosenberg, J. Schulzrinne, H. Camarillo, G. Johnston, A. Peterson, J. Sparks, R.
Handley, M.
, and
10.17487/RFC3261

,
E. Schooler "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol" RFC 3261 DOI
,
, June 2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3261>

,
.

,

,

,

,

,

,

Schulzrinne, H. Oran, D.
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 3326 DOI 10.17487/RFC3326
,
2002,

G. Camarillo "The Reason Header Field for the
, December

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3326>

, and

,
,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

Peterson, J. Jennings, C. Rescorla, E.
, and
Management in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 8224 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8224

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8224>

C. Wendt "Authenticated Identity

, February 2018,

,

,

,

,

.

Wendt

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9410

Identity Header Errors Handling for STIR

July 2023

[RFC8225]

[RFC8226]

[RFC9366]

Wendt, C.
10.17487/RFC8225

J. Peterson "PASSporT: Personal Assertion Token" RFC 8225 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8225>

,
, February 2018,

 and

,

.

 and

Peterson, J.
RFC 8226 DOI 10.17487/RFC8226
,
info/rfc8226>

.

S. Turner "Secure Telephone Identity Credentials: Certificates"

,

,

, February 2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Sparks, R. "Multiple SIP Reason Header Field Values" RFC 9366 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9366

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9366>
.

, March 2023,

,

,

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC7340]

,

Peterson, J. Schulzrinne, H.
Problem Statement and Requirements" RFC 7340 DOI 10.17487/RFC7340
September 2014,

H. Tschofenig "Secure Telephone Identity
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7340>

, and

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

The author would like to thank
,
as
Working Group for their helpful feedback and discussion.

David Hancock
,

Jon Peterson Roman Shpount Robert Sparks Christer Holmberg

 for help identifying these error scenarios, as well
,

, and others in the STIR

Author's Address

Chris Wendt
Somos Inc.
Email:

 chris-ietf@chriswendt.net

Wendt

Standards Track

Page 7

