Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9428
Standards Track
July 2023
2070-1721
Y. Choi,
ETRI

Y-G. Hong
Daejon Univ

 Ed.

J-S. Youn
Dongeui Univ

RFC 9428
Transmission of IPv6 Packets over Near Field
Communication

Abstract

Near Field Communication (NFC) is a set of standards for smartphones and portable devices to
establish radio communication with each other by touching them together or bringing them into
proximity, usually no more than 10 cm apart. NFC standards cover communication protocols and
data exchange formats and are based on existing Radio Frequency Identification (RFID)
standards, including ISO/IEC 14443 and FeliCa. The standards include ISO/IEC 18092 and those
defined by the NFC Forum. The NFC technology has been widely implemented and available in
mobile phones, laptop computers, and many other devices. This document describes how IPv6 is
transmitted over NFC using IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network (6LoWPAN)
techniques.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9428
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Terminology

3.  Overview of NFC Technology

3.1.  Peer-to-Peer Mode of NFC

3.2.  Protocol Stack of NFC

3.3.  NFC-Enabled Device Addressing

3.4.  MTU of NFC Link Layer

4.  Specification of IPv6 over NFC

4.1.  Protocol Stack

4.2.  Stateless Address Autoconfiguration

4.3.  IPv6 Link-Local Address

4.4.  Neighbor Discovery

4.5.  Dispatch Header

4.6.  Header Compression

4.7.  Fragmentation and Reassembly Considerations

4.8.  Unicast and Multicast Address Mapping

5.  Internet Connectivity Scenarios

5.1.  NFC-Enabled Device Network Connected to the Internet

5.2.  Isolated NFC-Enabled Device Network

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  Security Considerations

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

NFC is a set of short-range wireless technologies, typically requiring a distance between a sender
and receiver of 10 cm or less. NFC operates at 13.56 MHz and at rates ranging from 106 kbps to
424 kbps, as per the ISO/IEC 18000-3 air interface
allowing two-way communication between endpoints. NFC always involves an initiator and a
target; the initiator actively generates a radio frequency (RF) field that can power a passive
target. This enables NFC targets to take very simple form factors, such as tags, stickers, key fobs,
or cards, while avoiding the need for batteries. NFC peer-to-peer communication is possible,
provided that both devices are powered.

. NFC builds upon RFID systems by

[ECMA-340]

NFC has a very short transmission range of 10 cm or less; thus, the other hidden NFC devices
outside of that range cannot receive NFC signals. Therefore, NFC is often regarded as a secure
communications technology.

In order to benefit from Internet connectivity, it is desirable for NFC-enabled devices to support
IPv6 because of its large address space and the availability of tools for unattended operation,
along with other advantages. This document specifies how IPv6 is supported over NFC by using
6LoWPAN techniques
. 6LoWPAN is suitable, considering that it
was designed to support IPv6 over IEEE 802.15.4 networks
characteristics of the latter are similar to those of NFC.

[RFC4944] [RFC6282] [RFC6775]

 and some of the

[IEEE802.15.4]

2.  Conventions and Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This specification requires readers to be familiar with all the terms and concepts that are
discussed in "IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPANs): Overview,
Assumptions, Problem Statement, and Goals"
802.15.4 Networks"
Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPANs)

, and "Neighbor Discovery Optimization for IPv6 over Low-Power

, "Transmission of IPv6 Packets over IEEE

[RFC6775]
.

[RFC4944]

[RFC4919]

6LoWPAN Node (6LN):

A 6LoWPAN node is any host or router participating in a LoWPAN. This term is used when
referring to situations in which either a host or router can play the role described.

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

6LoWPAN Router (6LR):

An intermediate router in the LoWPAN that is able to send and receive Router Advertisements
(RAs) and Router Solicitations (RSs), as well as forward and route IPv6 packets. 6LoWPAN
routers are present only in route-over topologies.

6LoWPAN Border Router (6LBR):

A border router located at the junction of separate 6LoWPAN networks or between a
6LoWPAN network and another IP network. There may be one or more 6LBRs at the
6LoWPAN network boundary. A 6LBR is the responsible authority for IPv6 prefix propagation
for the 6LoWPAN network it is serving. An isolated LoWPAN also contains a 6LBR in the
network that provides the prefix(es) for the isolated network.

3.  Overview of NFC Technology

This section presents an overview of NFC, focusing on the characteristics of NFC that are most
relevant for supporting IPv6.

NFC enables a simple, two-way interaction between two devices, allowing users to perform
contactless transactions, access digital content, and connect electronic devices with a single
touch. NFC utilizes key elements in existing standards for contactless card technology, such as
ISO/IEC 14443 A&B and JIS-X 6319-4. NFC allows devices to share information at a distance up to
10 cm with a maximum physical layer bit rate of 424 kbps.

3.1.  Peer-to-Peer Mode of NFC

NFC defines three modes of operation: card emulation, peer-to-peer, and reader/writer. Only the
peer-to-peer mode allows two NFC-enabled devices to communicate with each other to exchange
information bidirectionally. The other two modes do not support two-way communication
between two devices. Therefore, the peer-to-peer mode

 be used for IPv6 over NFC.

MUST

3.2.  Protocol Stack of NFC

NFC defines a protocol stack for the peer-to-peer mode (Figure 1). The peer-to-peer mode is
offered by the Activities Digital Protocol at the NFC Physical Layer. The NFC Logical Link Layer
comprises the Logical Link Control Protocol (LLCP), and when IPv6 is used over NFC, it also
includes an IPv6-LLCP Binding. IPv6 and its underlying adaptation layer (i.e., IPv6-over-NFC
Adaptation Layer) are placed directly on the top of the IPv6-LLCP Binding. An IPv6 datagram is
transmitted by the LLCP with guaranteed delivery and two-way transmission of information
between the peer devices.

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

+----------------------------------------+ - - - - - - - - -
|      Logical Link Control Protocol     |   NFC Logical
|                 (LLCP)                 |   Link Layer
+----------------------------------------+ - - - - - - - - -
|               Activities               |
|            Digital Protocol            |   NFC Physical
+----------------------------------------+   Layer
|               RF Analog                |
+----------------------------------------+ - - - - - - - - -

Figure 1: Protocol Stack of NFC

The LLCP consists of Logical Link Control (LLC) and MAC Mapping. The MAC Mapping integrates
an existing radio frequency (RF) protocol into the LLCP architecture. The LLC contains three
components: Link Management, Connection-oriented Transmission, and Connectionless
Transmission. The Link Management is responsible for serializing all connection-oriented and
connectionless LLC PDU (Protocol Data Unit) exchanges; it is also responsible for the aggregation
and disaggregation of small PDUs. The Connection-oriented Transmission is responsible for
maintaining all connection-oriented data exchanges, including connection setup and
termination. However, NFC links do not guarantee perfect wireless link quality, so some types of
delay or variation in delay would be expected in any case. The Connectionless Transmission is
responsible for handling unacknowledged data exchanges.

MUST

MUST

 be passed down to the LLCP layer of

In order to send an IPv6 packet over NFC, the packet
NFC and carried by an Information field in an LLCP Protocol Data Unit (I PDU). The LLCP does
not support fragmentation and reassembly. For IPv6 addressing or address configuration, the
LLCP
 provide related information, such as link-layer addresses, to its upper layer. IPv6-
LLCP Binding
Access Point (DSAP) values to the IPv6-over-NFC Adaptation Layer. The SSAP is an LLC address of
the source NFC-enabled device with a size of 6 bits, while the DSAP is an LLC address of the
destination NFC-enabled device. Thus, the SSAP is a source address and the DSAP is a destination
address.

 transfer the Source Service Access Point (SSAP) and Destination Service

MUST

In addition, NFC links and hosts do not need to consider IP header bits for QoS signaling or utilize
these meaningfully.

3.3.  NFC-Enabled Device Addressing

[LLCP-1.4]

, NFC-enabled devices have two types of 6-bit addresses (i.e., SSAP and

According to
DSAP) to identify service access points. Several service access points can be installed on an NFC
device. However, the SSAP and DSAP can be used as identifiers for NFC link connections with the
IPv6-over-NFC Adaptation Layer. Therefore, the SSAP can be used to generate an IPv6 Interface
Identifier (IID). Address values between 00h and 0Fh of SSAP and DSAP are reserved for
identifying the well-known service access points that are defined in the NFC Forum Assigned
Numbers Register. Address values between 10h and 1Fh are assigned by the local LLC to services

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

registered by a local service environment. In addition, address values between 0x2 and 0x3f are
assigned by the local LLC as a result of an upper-layer service request. Therefore, the address
values between 0x2 and 0x3f can be used for generating IPv6 IIDs.

3.4.  MTU of NFC Link Layer

As mentioned in Section 3.2, when an IPv6 packet is transmitted, the packet
down to LLCP of NFC and transported to an I PDU of LLCP of the NFC-enabled peer device.

 be passed

MUST

The Information field of an I PDU contains a single service data unit. The maximum number of
octets in the Information field is determined by the Maximum Information Unit (MIU) for the
data link connection. The default value of the MIU for I PDUs is 128 octets. The local and remote
LLCs each establish and maintain distinct MIU values for each data link connection endpoint.
Also, an LLC may announce a larger MIU for a data link connection by transmitting an optional
Maximum Information Unit Extension (MIUX) parameter within the Information field. If no
MIUX parameter is transmitted, the MIU value is 128 bytes. Otherwise, the MTU size in NFC LLCP
MUST

 be calculated from the MIU value as follows:

MTU = MIU = 128 + MIUX

[LLCP-1.4]

According to
Length fields of the MIUX parameter TLV have each a size of 1 byte. The size of the TLV Value
field is 2 bytes.

, Figure 2 shows an example of the MIUX parameter TLV. The Type and

 0          0          1     2         3
 0          8          6     1         1
+----------+----------+-----+-----------+
|   Type   |  Length  |      Value      |
+----------+----------+-----+-----------+
|   0x02   |   0x02   | 0x0 |   0x480   |
+----------+----------+-----+-----------+

Figure 2: Example of MIUX Parameter TLV

When the MIUX parameter is used, the TLV Type field is 0x02 and the TLV Length field is 0x02.
The MIUX parameter is encoded into the least significant 11 bits of the TLV Value field. The
unused bits in the TLV Value field are set to zero by the sender and ignored by the receiver. The
maximum possible value of the TLV Value field is 0x7FF, and the maximum size of the LLCP MTU
is 2175 bytes. As per the present specification
support the IPv6 MTU requirement (1280 bytes)

, the MIUX value

 be 0x480 to

[RFC8200]
.

[LLCP-1.4]

MUST

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

4.  Specification of IPv6 over NFC

NFC technology has requirements owing to low power consumption and allowed protocol
[RFC4944] [RFC6775] [RFC6282]
overhead. 6LoWPAN standards
 provide useful functionality for
reducing the overhead of IPv6 over NFC. This functionality consists of link-local IPv6 addresses
and stateless IPv6 address autoconfiguration (see Sections 4.2 and 4.3), Neighbor Discovery (see
Section 4.4), and header compression (see Section 4.6).

4.1.  Protocol Stack

Figure 3 illustrates the IPv6-over-NFC protocol stack. Upper-layer protocols can be transport-
layer protocols (e.g., TCP and UDP), application-layer protocols, and other protocols capable of
running on top of IPv6.

+----------------------------------------+
|         Upper-Layer Protocols          |
+----------------------------------------+
|                 IPv6                   |
+----------------------------------------+
|   Adaptation Layer for IPv6 over NFC   |
+----------------------------------------+
|          NFC Logical Link Layer        |
+----------------------------------------+
|           NFC Physical Layer           |
+----------------------------------------+

Figure 3: Protocol Stack for IPv6 over NFC

The Adaptation Layer for IPv6 over NFC supports Neighbor Discovery, stateless address
autoconfiguration, header compression, and fragmentation and reassembly, based on 6LoWPAN.
 does not define header compression for TCP.
Note that 6LoWPAN header compression
The latter can still be supported by IPv6 over NFC, albeit without the performance optimization
of header compression.

[RFC6282]

4.2.  Stateless Address Autoconfiguration

An NFC-enabled device performs stateless address autoconfiguration per
. A 64-bit IID
for an NFC interface is formed by utilizing the 6-bit NFC SSAP (see Section 3.3). In the viewpoint
of address configuration, such an IID should guarantee a stable IPv6 address during the course of
a single connection because each data link connection is uniquely identified by the pair of DSAP
and SSAP included in the header of each LLC PDU in NFC.

[RFC4862]

, IIDs of all unicast addresses for NFC-enabled devices are 64
Following the guidance of
bits long and constructed by using the generation algorithm of random identifiers (RIDs) that are
stable

[RFC7217]
.

[RFC7136]

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

The RID is an output created by the F() algorithm with input parameters. One of the parameters
is Net_Iface, and the NFC Link-Layer Address (i.e., the SSAP)
 be a source of the Net_Iface
parameter. The 6-bit address of the SSAP of NFC is short and can easily be targeted by attacks
from a third party (e.g., address scanning). The F() algorithm with SHA-256 can provide secured
and stable IIDs for NFC-enabled devices. In addition, an optional parameter, Network_ID, is used
to increase the randomness of the generated IID with the NFC Link-Layer Address (i.e., SSAP). The
secret key
SHOULD
[RFC4086]
.

 be initialized to a pseudorandom number

 be at least 128 bits. It

MUST

MUST

4.3.  IPv6 Link-Local Address

The IPv6 Link-Local Address for an NFC-enabled device is formed by appending the IID to the
prefix fe80::/64, as depicted in Figure 4.

 0          0                  0                          1
 0          1                  6                          2
 0          0                  4                          7
+----------+------------------+----------------------------+
|1111111010|       zeros      |    Interface Identifier    |
+----------+------------------+----------------------------+
.                                                          .
. <- - - - - - - - - - - 128 bits - - - - - - - - - - - -> .
.                                                          .

Figure 4: IPv6 Link-Local Address in NFC

The "Interface Identifier" can be a random and stable IID.

4.4.  Neighbor Discovery

Neighbor Discovery Optimization for 6LoWPANs
approach in several 6LoWPAN topologies, such as mesh topology. NFC supports mesh topologies,
but most applications would use a simple multi-hop network topology or directly connected
peer-to-peer network because the NFC RF range is very short.

 describes the Neighbor Discovery

[RFC6775]

•

When an NFC 6LN is directly connected to a 6LBR, the 6LN
6LBR by sending Neighbor Solicitation (NS) with the Extended Address Registration Option
(EARO)
linked to each other, an address is assigned to the 6LN. In this process, Duplicate Address
Detection (DAD) is not required.

; then Neighbor Advertisement (NA) is started. When the 6LN and 6LBR are

 register its address with the

[RFC8505]

MUST

•

When two or more NFC 6LNs are connected to the 6LBR, two cases of topologies can be
formed. One is a multi-hop topology, and the other is a star topology based on the 6LBR. In
the multi-hop topology, 6LNs that have two or more links with neighbor nodes may act as
routers. In star topology, any of 6LNs can be a router.

•

For receiving RSs and RAs, the NFC 6LNs

MUST

 follow Sections 5.3 and 5.4 of

[RFC6775]

.

•

When an NFC device is a 6LR or 6LBR, the NFC device
[RFC6775]

.

MUST

 follow Sections 6 and 7 of

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

4.5.  Dispatch Header

All IPv6-over-NFC encapsulated datagrams are prefixed by an encapsulation header stack
consisting of a dispatch value
over NFC
payload, as depicted in Figure 5 and Table 1.

. The only sequence currently defined for IPv6
 be the LOWPAN_IPHC compressed IPv6 header (see Section 4.6) followed by a

[IANA-6LoWPAN]

MUST

+---------------+---------------+--------------+
| IPHC Dispatch |  IPHC Header  |    Payload   |
+---------------+---------------+--------------+

Figure 5: An IPv6-over-NFC Encapsulated LOWPAN_IPHC Compressed IPv6 Datagram

The dispatch value (1 octet in length) is treated as an unstructured namespace. Only a single
pattern is used to represent current IPv6-over-NFC functionality.

Pattern

Header Type

Reference

01 1xxxxx

LOWPAN_IPHC

[RFC6282] [RFC8025]

Table 1: Dispatch Values

Other IANA-assigned 6LoWPAN dispatch values do not apply to this specification.

4.6.  Header Compression

Header compression as defined in
datagrams on top of IEEE 802.15.4, is
compression on top of NFC. All headers
described in

[RFC6282]
.

[RFC6282]

, which specifies the compression format for IPv6
 in this document as the basis for IPv6 header
 be compressed according to the encoding formats

REQUIRED

MUST

Therefore, IPv6 header compression in
implementations
MUST
[RFC7400]
.

[RFC6282] MUST

 be implemented. Further,

 also support Generic Header Compression (GHC) as described in

If a 16-bit address is required as a short address, it
SSAP (NFC Link-Layer Node Address) to the left with zeros as shown in Figure 6.

 be formed by padding the 6-bit NFC

MUST

 0                   1
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
| Padding(all zeros)| NFC Addr. |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 6: NFC Short Address Format

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

4.7.  Fragmentation and Reassembly Considerations

MUST NOT

 use fragmentation and reassembly (FAR) at the adaptation layer for the

IPv6 over NFC
payloads as discussed in Section 3.4. The NFC link connection for IPv6 over NFC
configured with an equivalent MIU size to support the IPv6 MTU requirement (1280 bytes). To
this end, the MIUX value is 0x480.

MUST

 be

4.8.  Unicast and Multicast Address Mapping

The address resolution procedure for mapping IPv6 non-multicast addresses into NFC Link-Layer
Addresses follows the general description in Sections 4.6.1 and 7.2 of
, unless otherwise
specified.

[RFC4861]

The Source/Target Link-Layer Address option has the following form when the addresses are 6-
bit NFC SSAP/DSAP (NFC Link-Layer Node Addresses).

 0                   1
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|      Type     |   Length=1    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                               |
+-     Padding (all zeros)     -+
|                               |
+-                  +-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                   | NFC Addr. |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Figure 7: Unicast Address Mapping

Option fields:
Type:
1:

This is for the Source Link-Layer Address.

2:

This is for the Target Link-Layer Address.

Length:

This is the length of this option (including the Type and Length fields) in units of 8 bits. The
value of this field is 1 for 6-bit NFC node addresses.

NFC address:

The 6-bit address in canonical bit order. This is the unicast address the interface currently
responds to.

The NFC Link Layer does not support multicast. Therefore, packets are always transmitted
unicast between two NFC-enabled devices. Even in the case where a 6LBR is attached to multiple
6LNs, the 6LBR cannot multicast to all the connected 6LNs. If the 6LBR needs to send a multicast
packet to all its 6LNs, it has to replicate the packet and unicast it on each link. However, this is

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

not energy-efficient; the central node, which is battery-powered, must take particular care of
power consumption. To further conserve power, the 6LBR
at NFC link-level granularity (not at subnet granularity), and it
packets to 6LNs that have not registered as listeners for multicast groups the packets belong to.
In the opposite direction, a 6LN always has to send packets to or through the 6LBR. Hence, when
a 6LN needs to transmit an IPv6 multicast packet, the 6LN will unicast the corresponding NFC
packet to the 6LBR.

 keep track of multicast listeners

 forward multicast

MUST NOT

MUST

5.  Internet Connectivity Scenarios

5.1.  NFC-Enabled Device Network Connected to the Internet

Figure 8 illustrates an example of an NFC-enabled device network connected to the Internet. The
distance between 6LN and 6LBR is typically 10 cm or less. For example, a laptop computer that is
connected to the Internet (e.g., via Wi-Fi, Ethernet, etc.) may also support NFC and act as a 6LBR.
Another NFC-enabled device may run as a 6LN and communicate with the 6LBR, as long as both
are within each other's range.

         NFC link
6LN ------------------- 6LBR -------( Internet )--------- CN
 .                        .                                .
 . <- - - - Subnet - - -> . < - - - IPv6 connection - - -> .
 .                        .         to the Internet        .

Figure 8: NFC-Enabled Device Network Connected to the Internet

Two or more 6LNs may be connected with a 6LBR, but each connection uses a different IPv6
prefix. The 6LBR is acting as a router and forwarding packets between 6LNs and the Internet.
Also, the 6LBR
 ensure address collisions do not occur because the 6LNs are connected to
the 6LBR like a start topology, so the 6LBR checks whether or not IPv6 addresses are duplicates,
since 6LNs need to register their addresses with the 6LBR.

MUST

5.2.  Isolated NFC-Enabled Device Network

In some scenarios, the NFC-enabled device network may permanently be a simple isolated
network as shown in Figure 9.

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

                           6LN                        6LN - - - - -
                            |                          |      .
                NFC link - >|              NFC link - >|      .
                            |                          |      .
6LN ---------------------- 6LR ---------------------- 6LR   Subnet
 .         NFC link                    NFC link        |      .
 .                                                     |      .
 .                                         NFC link - >|      .
 .                                                    6LN - - - - -
 .                                                     .
 . < - - - - - - - - - -  Subnet - - - - - - - - - - > .

Figure 9: Isolated NFC-Enabled Device Network

In multihop (i.e., more complex) topologies, the 6LR can also do the same task. DAD requires the
extensions for multihop networks, such as the ones in

[RFC6775]
.

6.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

7.  Security Considerations

Neighbor Discovery in unencrypted wireless device networks may be susceptible to various
threats as described in

[RFC3756]
.

Per the NFC Logical Link Control Protocol

[LLCP-1.4]
:

•

LLCP of NFC provides protection of user data to ensure confidentiality of communications.
The confidentiality mechanism involves the encryption of user service data with a secret key
that has been established during link activation.

•

LLCP of NFC has two modes (i.e., ad hoc mode and authenticated mode) for secure data
transfer. Ad hoc secure data transfer can be established between two communication parties
without any prior knowledge of the communication partner. Ad hoc secure data transfer can
be vulnerable to on-path attacks. Authenticated secure data transfer provides protection
against on-path attacks. In the initial bonding step, the two communicating parties store a
shared secret along with a Bonding Identifier.

•

For all subsequent interactions, the communicating parties reuse the shared secret and
compute only the unique encryption key for that session. Secure data transfer is based on
the cryptographic algorithms defined in the NFC Authentication Protocol

[NAP-1.0]

.

Furthermore, NFC is considered by many to offer intrinsic security properties due to its short
link range. When IIDs are generated, devices and users are required to consider mitigating
various threats, such as correlation of activities over time, location tracking, device-specific
vulnerability exploitation, and address scanning. However, IPv6 over NFC uses an RID
as an IPv6 IID; NFC applications use short-lived connections and a different address is used for
each connection where the latter is of extremely short duration.

[RFC7217]

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[LLCP-1.4]

[NAP-1.0]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4086]

[RFC4861]

[RFC4862]

[RFC4919]

[RFC4944]

[RFC6282]

[RFC6775]

[RFC7136]

NFC Forum "Logical Link Control Protocol Technical Specification" Version 1.4
December 2022,

<https://nfc-forum.org/build/specifications>

,

,

.

,

NFC Forum "NFC Authentication Protocol Technical Specification" Version 1.0
<https://nfc-forum.org/build/specifications>
December 2022,

.

,

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Schiller, J.
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, and
,

,

,

.

S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for

,

, June 2005,

<https://

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

.

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
,
<https://
, September 2007,

,

Thomson, S. Narten, T.
, and
Autoconfiguration" RFC 4862 DOI 10.17487/RFC4862
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4862>

T. Jinmei "IPv6 Stateless Address
,

,

,

.

, September 2007,

<https://

Kushalnagar, N. Montenegro, G.
,
, and
Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPANs): Overview, Assumptions,
Problem Statement, and Goals" RFC 4919 DOI 10.17487/RFC4919
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4919>

C. Schumacher "IPv6 over Low-Power

,
.

,

, August 2007,

,

Montenegro, G. Kushalnagar, N. Hui, J.
Packets over IEEE 802.15.4 Networks" RFC 4944 DOI 10.17487/RFC4944
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4944>
September 2007,

D. Culler "Transmission of IPv6

, and

,

,

,

,

.

 and

Hui, J., Ed.
802.15.4-Based Networks" RFC 6282 DOI 10.17487/RFC6282
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6282>

P. Thubert "Compression Format for IPv6 Datagrams over IEEE
, September 2011,

,
,

,

.

,

C. Bormann "Neighbor
Shelby, Z., Ed. Chakrabarti, S. Nordmark, E.
,
Discovery Optimization for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area
Networks (6LoWPANs)" RFC 6775 DOI 10.17487/RFC6775
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6775>

, November 2012,

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

Carpenter, B.
DOI 10.17487/RFC7136
rfc7136>

.

S. Jiang "Significance of IPv6 Interface Identifiers" RFC 7136

,

,

,

, February 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

[RFC7217]

[RFC7400]

[RFC8025]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8200]

[RFC8505]

,

Gont, F. "A Method for Generating Semantically Opaque Interface Identifiers
with IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration (SLAAC)" RFC 7217 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7217>
10.17487/RFC7217

, April 2014,

,

,

.

,

Bormann, C. "6LoWPAN-GHC: Generic Header Compression for IPv6 over Low-
Power Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPANs)" RFC 7400 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7400

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7400>

, November 2014,

,

,

.

 and

Thubert, P., Ed.
Network (6LoWPAN) Paging Dispatch" RFC 8025 DOI 10.17487/RFC8025
November 2016,

R. Cragie "IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8025>

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Deering, S.
86 RFC 8200 DOI 10.17487/RFC8200
rfc8200>

 and
,

,

.

R. Hinden "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, July 2017,

,

,

,

Thubert, P., Ed. Nordmark, E. Chakrabarti, S.
Extensions for IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Network
(6LoWPAN) Neighbor Discovery" RFC 8505 DOI 10.17487/RFC8505
,
2018,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8505>

, and

,

.

,

C. Perkins "Registration

,

, November

8.2.  Informative References

[ECMA-340]

ECMA International "Near Field Communication - Interface and Protocol
(NFCIP-1)" 3rd Edition ECMA 340
international.org/wp-content/uploads/ECMA-340_3rd_edition_june_2013.pdf>

<https://www.ecma-

, June 2013,

,

,

,

.

[IANA-6LoWPAN]

IANA "IPv6 Low Power Personal Area Network Parameters" <https://

,

,

[IEEE802.15.4]

[RFC3756]

www.iana.org/assignments/_6lowpan-parameters>

.

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Low-Rate Wireless Networks" IEEE Std 802.15.4-2020
DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2020.9144691
document/9144691>

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/

, July 2020,

,

.

,

,

Nikander, P., Ed. Kempf, J.
, and
Trust Models and Threats" RFC 3756 DOI 10.17487/RFC3756
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3756>

,

,

.

E. Nordmark "IPv6 Neighbor Discovery (ND)

, May 2004,

<https://

Acknowledgements

We are grateful to the members of the IETF 6lo Working Group.

Michael Richardson Suresh Krishnan Pascal Thubert Carsten Bormann Alexandru Petrescu
,
James Woodyatt Dave Thaler Samita Chakrabarti Gabriel Montenegro Erik Kline
Carles
Gomez Montenegro

,
 have provided valuable feedback for this document.

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9428

IPv6 over NFC

July 2023

Authors' Addresses

editor
)
Younghwan Choi (
Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute
218 Gajeongno, Yuseung-gu
Daejeon
34129
South Korea
Phone:
Email:

 +82 42 860 1429
 yhc@etri.re.kr

Yong-Geun Hong
Daejon University
62 Daehak-ro, Dong-gu
Daejeon
34520
South Korea
Phone:
Email:

 +82 42 280 4841
 yonggeun.hong@gmail.com

Joo-Sang Youn
DONG-EUI University
176 Eomgwangno Busan_jin_gu
Busan
614-714
South Korea
Phone:
Email:

 +82 51 890 1993
 joosang.youn@gmail.com

Choi, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

