Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9080
Standards Track
August 2021
2070-1721
J. Chroboczek
IRIF, University of Paris-Diderot

RFC 9080
Homenet Proﬁle of the Babel Routing Protocol

Abstract

This document deﬁnes the exact subset of the Babel routing protocol and its extensions that is
required by an implementation of the Homenet protocol suite, as well as the interactions
between the Home Networking Control Protocol (HNCP) and Babel.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9080

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9080

Homenet Babel Proﬁle

August 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

1.2.  Background

2.  The Homenet Proﬁle of Babel

2.1.  Requirements

2.2.  Optional Features

3.  Interactions between HNCP and Babel

3.1.  Requirements

3.2.  Optional Features

4.  Security Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

The core of the Homenet protocol suite consists of the Home Networking Control Protocol (HNCP)
[RFC7788]
, a protocol used for ﬂooding conﬁguration information and assigning preﬁxes to links,
[RFC8966]
combined with the Babel routing protocol
modular protocol: minimal implementations of Babel have been demonstrated that consist of a
few hundred lines of code, while the "large" implementation includes support for a number of
extensions and consists of over ten thousand lines of C code.

. Babel is an extensible, ﬂexible, and

This document consists of two parts. The ﬁrst speciﬁes the exact subset of the Babel protocol and
its extensions that is required by an implementation of the Homenet protocol suite. The second
speciﬁes how HNCP interacts with Babel.

Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9080

Homenet Babel Proﬁle

August 2021

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

1.2.  Background

The Babel routing protocol and its extensions are deﬁned in a number of documents:

•

[RFC8966]

 deﬁnes the Babel routing protocol. It allows Babel's control data to be
RFC 8966
carried either over link-local IPv6 or over IPv4 and in either case allows announcing both
IPv4 and IPv6 routes. It leaves link cost estimation, metric computation, and route selection
 will interoperate, in the
to the implementation. Distinct implementations of Babel
sense that they will maintain a set of loop-free forwarding paths. However, if they
implement conﬂicting options, they might not be able to exchange a full set of routes. In the
worst case, an implementation that only implements the IPv6 subset of the protocol and an
implementation that only implements the IPv4 subset of the protocol will not exchange any
routes. In addition, if implementations use conﬂicting route selection policies, persistent
oscillations might occur.

[RFC8966]

•

Appendix A of [RFC8966]

The informative
algorithm for cost and metric computation that has been found to work satisfactorily in a
wide range of topologies.

 suggests a simple and easy-to-implement

•

While RFC 8966 does not provide an algorithm for route selection, its Section 3.6 suggests
selecting the route with the smallest metric with some hysteresis applied. An algorithm that
has been found to work well in practice is described in Section III.E of

[DELAY-BASED]

.

•

Four documents deﬁne optional extensions to Babel: authentication based on Hashed
[RFC8967]
Message Authentication Code (HMAC)
based routing
these extensions interoperate with the core protocol as well as with each other.

, and ToS-speciﬁc (Type of Service) routing

[RFC9079]
[ToS-SPECIFIC]

, source-speciﬁc routing

[BABEL-RTT]

, delay-

. All of

2.  The Homenet Proﬁle of Babel

2.1.  Requirements

REQ1:

A Homenet implementation of Babel
 encapsulate Babel control traﬃc in IPv6
packets sent to the IANA-assigned port 6696 and either the IANA-assigned multicast
group ﬀ02::1:6 or to a link-local unicast address.

MUST

Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9080

Homenet Babel Proﬁle

August 2021

Rationale: Since Babel is able to carry both IPv4 and IPv6 routes over either IPv4 or
IPv6, choosing the protocol used for carrying control traﬃc is a matter of preference.
Since IPv6 has some features that make implementations somewhat simpler and
more reliable (notably properly scoped and reasonably stable link-local addresses),
we require carrying control data over IPv6.

REQ2:

A Homenet implementation of Babel
deﬁned in the body of RFC 8966.

MUST

 implement the IPv6 subset of the protocol

Rationale: Support for IPv6 routing is an essential component of the Homenet
architecture.

REQ3:

 implement the IPv4 subset of the protocol
A Homenet implementation of Babel
deﬁned in the body of RFC 8966. Use of other techniques for acquiring IPv4 connectivity
(such as multiple layers of NAT) is strongly discouraged.

SHOULD

Rationale: Support for IPv4 will likely remain necessary for years to come, and even
in pure IPv6 deployments, including code for supporting IPv4 has very little cost.
Since HNCP makes it easy to assign distinct IPv4 preﬁxes to the links in a network, it
is not necessary to resort to multiple layers of NAT, with all of its problems.

REQ4:

REQ5:

REQ6:

A Homenet implementation of Babel
as deﬁned in RFC 9079

[RFC9079]

.

MUST

 implement source-speciﬁc routing for IPv6,

Rationale: Source-speciﬁc routing is an essential component of the Homenet
architecture. Source-speciﬁc routing for IPv4 is not required, since HNCP arranges
things so that a single nonspeciﬁc IPv4 default route is announced (
[RFC7788]

Section 6.5 of

).

A Homenet implementation of Babel must use metrics that are of a similar magnitude to
the values suggested in
that are no less than 256 to wireless links and
to lossless wired links.

 assign costs between 32 and 196

Appendix A of [RFC8966]

. In particular, it

 assign costs

SHOULD

SHOULD

Rationale: If two implementations of Babel choose very diﬀerent values for link costs,
combining routers from diﬀerent vendors will cause suboptimal routing.

A Homenet implementation of Babel
links; if it is unable to determine whether a link is wired or wireless, it
worst-case hypothesis that the link is wireless. It
of wireless links and derive a suitable metric from its quality estimation.
[RFC8966]

 gives an example of a suitable algorithm.

SHOULD

SHOULD

 dynamically probe the quality
Appendix A of

 distinguish between wired and wireless

SHOULD

 make the

Rationale: Support for wireless transit links is a distinguishing feature of Homenet,
and one that is requested by our users. In the absence of dynamically computed
metrics, the routing protocol attempts to minimise the number of links crossed by a
route and therefore prefers long, lossy links to shorter, lossless ones. In wireless
networks, "hop-count routing is worst-path routing".

Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9080

Homenet Babel Proﬁle

August 2021

While it would be desirable to perform link-quality probing on some wired link
technologies, notably power-line networks, these kinds of links tend to be diﬃcult or
impossible to detect automatically, and we are not aware of any published link-
quality algorithms for them. Hence, we do not require link-quality estimation for
wired links of any kind.

2.2.  Optional Features

OPT1:

A Homenet implementation of Babel
to route metrics, as suggested in
Section III.E of
implementation may simply pick the route with the smallest metric.

Section 3.6 of [RFC8966]

[DELAY-BASED]

MAY

. However, hysteresis is not required, and the

 and described in detail in

 perform route selection by applying hysteresis

Rationale: Hysteresis is only useful in congested and highly dynamic networks. In a
typical home network, which is stable and uncongested, the feedback loop that
hysteresis compensates for does not occur.

OPT2:

A Homenet implementation of Babel may include support for other extensions to the
protocol, as long as they are known to interoperate with both the core protocol and
source-speciﬁc routing.

Rationale: A number of extensions to the Babel routing protocol have been deﬁned
over the years; however, they are useful in fairly speciﬁc situations, such as routing
[BABEL-RTT]
over global-scale overlay networks
multiple radio frequencies
routing, no extensions are required for Homenet.

. Hence, with the exception of source-speciﬁc

 or multi-hop wireless networks with

[BABEL-Z]

3.  Interactions between HNCP and Babel

The Homenet architecture cleanly separates conﬁguration, which is done by HNCP, from routing,
which is done by Babel. While the coupling between the two protocols is deliberately kept to a
minimum, some interactions are unavoidable.

All the interactions between HNCP and Babel consist of HNCP causing Babel to perform an
announcement on its behalf (under no circumstances does Babel cause HNCP to perform an
action). How this is realised is an implementation detail that is outside the scope of this
document; while it could conceivably be done using a private communication channel between
HNCP and Babel, in existing implementations, HNCP installs a route in the operating system's
kernel that is later picked up by Babel using the existing redistribution mechanisms.

3.1.  Requirements

REQ7:

If an HNCP node receives a DHCPv6 preﬁx delegation for preﬁx P and publishes an
External-Connection TLV containing a Delegated-Preﬁx TLV with preﬁx P and no Preﬁx-
Policy TLV, then it
over Babel.

 announce a source-speciﬁc default route with source preﬁx P

MUST

Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9080

Homenet Babel Proﬁle

August 2021

Rationale: Source-speciﬁc routes are the main tool that Homenet uses to enable
optimal routing in the presence of multiple IPv6 preﬁxes. External connections with
nontrivial preﬁx policies are explicitly excluded from this requirement, since their
exact behaviour is application speciﬁc.

REQ8:

If an HNCP node receives a DHCPv4 lease with an IPv4 address and wins the election for
NAT gateway, then it
IPv4 default route over Babel.

 act as a NAT gateway and

 announce a (nonspeciﬁc)

MUST

MUST

Rationale: The Homenet stack does not use source-speciﬁc routing for IPv4; instead,
HNCP elects a single NAT gateway and publishes a single default route towards that
gateway (

[RFC7788], Section 6.5

).

REQ9:

If an HNCP node assigns a preﬁx P to an attached link and announces P in an Assigned-
 announce a route towards P over Babel.
Preﬁx TLV, then it

MUST

Rationale: Preﬁxes assigned to links must be routable within the Homenet.

3.2.  Optional Features

OPT3:

OPT4:

An HNCP node that receives a DHCPv6 preﬁx delegation
IPv6 default route over Babel in addition to the source-speciﬁc default route mandated
by requirement REQ7.

 announce a nonspeciﬁc

MAY

Rationale: Since the source-speciﬁc default route is more speciﬁc than the nonspeciﬁc
default route, the former will override the latter if all nodes implement source-
speciﬁc routing. Announcing an additional nonspeciﬁc route is allowed, since doing
that causes no harm and might simplify operations in some circumstances, e.g., when
interoperating with a routing protocol that does not support source-speciﬁc routing.

An HNCP node that receives a DHCPv4 lease with an IPv4 address and wins the election
for NAT gateway

 announce a source-speciﬁc IPv4 default route.

SHOULD NOT

Rationale: Homenet does not require support for IPv4 source-speciﬁc routing.
Announcing IPv4 source-speciﬁc routes will not cause routing pathologies (blackholes
or routing loops), but it might cause packets sourced in diﬀerent parts of the
Homenet to follow diﬀerent paths, with all the confusion that this entails.

4.  Security Considerations

Both HNCP and Babel carry their control data in IPv6 packets with a link-local source address,
and implementations are required to drop packets sent from a global address. Hence, they are
only susceptible to attacks from a directly connected link on which the HNCP and Babel
implementations are listening.

Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9080

Homenet Babel Proﬁle

August 2021

Section 5.1 of [RFC7788]

) that are assumed to be connected to links that are secured at

The security of a Homenet network relies on having a set of "Internal", "Ad Hoc", and "Hybrid"
interfaces (
a lower layer. HNCP and Babel packets are only accepted when they originate on these trusted
links. "External" and "Guest" interfaces are connected to links that are not trusted, and any HNCP
or Babel packets that are received on such interfaces are ignored. ("Leaf" interfaces are a special
case since they are connected to trusted links, but HNCP and Babel traﬃc received on such
interfaces is ignored.) This implies that the security of a Homenet network depends on the
reliability of the border discovery procedure described in

Section 5.3 of [RFC7788]

.

If untrusted links are used for transit, which is
traﬃc that is carried over such links
 be secured using an upper-layer security protocol.
While both HNCP and Babel support cryptographic authentication, at the time of writing, no
protocol for autonomous conﬁguration of HNCP and Babel security has been deﬁned.

, then any HNCP and Babel

NOT RECOMMENDED

MUST

5.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC7788]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8966]

[RFC9079]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

, and
Stenberg, M. Barth, S.
,
7788 DOI 10.17487/RFC7788
rfc7788>

.

,

P. Pﬁster "Home Networking Control Protocol" RFC
, April 2016,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Chroboczek, J.
10.17487/RFC8966

 and

D. Schinazi "The Babel Routing Protocol" RFC 8966 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8966>

, January 2021,

,

,

,

 and

Boutier, M.
,
Protocol" RFC 9079 DOI 10.17487/RFC9079
editor.org/rfc/rfc9079>

,

,

.

J. Chroboczek "Source-Speciﬁc Routing in the Babel Routing

, August 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

6.2.  Informative References

[BABEL-RTT]

 and

J. Chroboczek "Delay-based Metric Extension for the Babel

Jonglez, B.
Routing Protocol" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-babel-rtt-
,
extension-00
babel-rtt-extension-00>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-

, 26 April 2019,

,

.

,

Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9080

Homenet Babel Proﬁle

August 2021

[BABEL-Z]

[DELAY-BASED]

[RFC8967]

[ToS-SPECIFIC]

,

Chroboczek, J. "Diversity Routing for the Babel Routing Protocol" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-chroboczek-babel-diversity-routing-01
February 2016,
diversity-routing-01>

<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-chroboczek-babel-

, 15

,

,

.

Jonglez, B. Boutier, M.
,
,
<http://arxiv.org/abs/1403.3488>
March 2014,

, and

.

J. Chroboczek "A delay-based routing metric"

,

,

Dô, C. Kolodziejak, W.
, and
Routing Protocol" RFC 8967 DOI 10.17487/RFC8967
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8967>

J. Chroboczek "MAC Authentication for the Babel
,

, January 2021,

<https://

,

,

.

 and

Chouasne, G.

J. Chroboczek "TOS-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-chouasne-babel-tos-speciﬁc-00
, 3 July 2017,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-chouasne-babel-tos-speciﬁc-00>

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgments

A number of people have helped with deﬁning the requirements listed in this document. I am
especially indebted to

Markus Stenberg

Barbara Stark

 and

.

Author's Address

Juliusz Chroboczek
IRIF, University of Paris-Diderot
Case 7014
75205 Paris CEDEX 13
France
Email:

 jch@irif.fr

Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 8

