Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9161
7432
Standards Track
January 2022
2070-1721
J. Rabadan,
Nokia

S. Sathappan
Nokia

 Ed.

K. Nagaraj
Nokia

G. Hankins
Nokia

T. King
DE-CIX

RFC 9161
Operational Aspects of Proxy ARP/ND in Ethernet
Virtual Private Networks

Abstract

This document describes the Ethernet Virtual Private Network (EVPN) Proxy ARP/ND function
augmented by the capability of the ARP/ND Extended Community. From that perspective, this
document updates the EVPN speciﬁcation to provide more comprehensive documentation of the
operation of the Proxy ARP/ND function. The EVPN Proxy ARP/ND function and the ARP/ND
Extended Community help operators of Internet Exchange Points, Data Centers, and other
networks deal with IPv4 and IPv6 address resolution issues associated with large Broadcast
Domains by reducing and even suppressing the ﬂooding produced by address resolution in the
EVPN network.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9161
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  The Data Center Use Case

1.2.  The Internet Exchange Point Use Case

2.  Terminology

3.  Solution Description

3.1.  Proxy ARP/ND Sub-functions

3.2.  Learning Sub-function

3.2.1.  Proxy ND and the NA Flags

3.3.  Reply Sub-function

3.4.  Unicast-Forward Sub-function

3.5.  Maintenance Sub-function

3.6.  Flood (to Remote PEs) Handling

3.7.  Duplicate IP Detection

4.  Solution Beneﬁts

5.  Deployment Scenarios

5.1.  All Dynamic Learning

5.2.  Dynamic Learning with Proxy ARP/ND

5.3.  Hybrid Dynamic Learning and Static Provisioning with Proxy ARP/ND

5.4.  All Static Provisioning with Proxy ARP/ND

5.5.  Example of Deployment in Internet Exchange Points

5.6.  Example of Deployment in Data Centers

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

8.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Contributors

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC7432]

, the IP Address ﬁeld in the Ethernet Virtual Private Network (EVPN)

As speciﬁed in
Media Access Control (MAC) / IP Advertisement route may optionally carry one of the IP
addresses associated with the MAC address. A Provider Edge (PE) may learn local IP->MAC pairs
and advertise them in EVPN MAC/IP Advertisement routes. Remote PEs importing those routes in
the same Broadcast Domain (BD) may add those IP->MAC pairs to their Proxy ARP/ND tables and
reply to local ARP Requests or Neighbor Solicitations (or "unicast-forward" those packets to the
owner MAC), reducing and even suppressing, in some cases, the ﬂooding in the EVPN network.

EVPN and its associated Proxy ARP/ND function are extremely useful in Data Centers (DCs) or
Internet Exchange Points (IXPs) with large Broadcast Domains, where the amount of ARP/ND
ﬂooded traﬃc causes issues on connected routers and Customer Edges (CEs).
the address resolution problems in large DC networks.

[RFC6820]

 describes

This document describes the Proxy ARP/ND function in
capability of the ARP/ND Extended Community
updates

[RFC7432]

[RFC9047]

.

[RFC7432]

 networks, augmented by the

. From that perspective, this document

Proxy ARP/ND may be implemented to help IXPs, DCs, and other operators deal with the issues
derived from address resolution in large Broadcast Domains.

1.1.  The Data Center Use Case

[RFC6820]

As described in
DCs. In particular, the issues created by IPv4 Address Resolution Protocol procedures may be
signiﬁcant.

, the IPv4 and IPv6 address resolution can create a lot of issues in large

On one hand, ARP Requests use broadcast MAC addresses; therefore, any Tenant System in a
large Broadcast Domain will see a large amount of ARP traﬃc, which is not addressed to most of
the receivers.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

On the other hand, the ﬂooding issue becomes even worse if some Tenant Systems disappear
from the Broadcast Domain, since some implementations will persistently retry sending ARP
Requests. As
the absence of replies; hence, an implementation may choose to keep retrying endlessly even if
there are no replies.

 states, there are no clear requirements for retransmitting ARP Requests in

[RFC6820]

The amount of ﬂooding that address resolution creates can be mitigated by the use of EVPN and
its Proxy ARP/ND function.

1.2.  The Internet Exchange Point Use Case

The implementation described in this document is especially useful in IXP networks.

A typical IXP provides access to a large Layer 2 Broadcast Domain for peering purposes (referred
to as "the peering network"), where (hundreds of) Internet routers are connected. We refer to
these Internet routers as CE devices in this section. Because of the requirement to connect all
routers to a single Layer 2 network, the peering networks use IPv4 addresses in length ranges
from /21 to /24 (and even bigger for IPv6), which can create very large Broadcast Domains. This
peering network is transparent to the CEs and therefore ﬂoods any ARP Requests or NS messages
to all the CEs in the network. Gratuitous ARP and NA messages are ﬂooded to all the CEs too.

In these IXP networks, most of the CEs are typically peering routers and roughly all the Broadcast,
Unknown Unicast, and Multicast (BUM) traﬃc is originated by the ARP and ND address
resolution procedures. This ARP/ND BUM traﬃc causes signiﬁcant data volumes that reach every
single router in the peering network. Since the ARP/ND messages are processed in "slow path"
software processors and they take high priority in the routers, heavy loads of ARP/ND traﬃc can
cause some routers to run out of resources. CEs disappearing from the network may cause
address resolution explosions that can make a router with limited processing power fail to keep
BGP sessions running.

The issue might be better in IPv6 routers if Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) snooping was
enabled, since ND uses an SN-multicast address in NS messages; however, ARP uses broadcast and
has to be processed by all the routers in the network. Some routers may also be conﬁgured to
broadcast periodic Gratuitous ARPs (GARPs)
than one IPv6 address contributes to the growth of ND ﬂooding in the network. The amount of
ARP/ND ﬂooded traﬃc grows linearly with the number of IXP participants; therefore, the issue
can only grow worse as new CEs are added.

. For IPv6, the fact that IPv6 CEs have more

[RFC5227]

In order to deal with this issue, IXPs have developed certain solutions over the past years. While
these solutions may mitigate the issues of address resolution in large Broadcast Domains, EVPN
provides new more eﬃcient possibilities to IXPs. EVPN and its Proxy ARP/ND function may help
solve the issue in a distributed and scalable way, fully integrated with the PE network.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

2.  Terminology

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

ARP:

Address Resolution Protocol

AS-MAC:

Anti-spooﬁng MAC. It is a special MAC conﬁgured on all the PEs attached to the same
BD and used for the duplicate IP detection procedures.

BD:

Broadcast Domain

BUM:

Broadcast, Unknown Unicast, and Multicast Layer 2 traﬃc

CE:

Customer Edge router

DAD:

Duplicate Address Detection, as per

[RFC4861]

DC:

EVI:

Data Center

EVPN Instance

EVPN:

Ethernet Virtual Private Network, as per

[RFC7432]

GARP:

Gratuitous ARP

IP->MAC:

An IP address associated to a MAC address. IP->MAC entries are programmed in
Proxy ARP/ND tables and may be of three diﬀerent types: dynamic, static, or EVPN-
learned.

IXP:

Internet Exchange Point

IXP-LAN:

The IXP's large Broadcast Domain to where Internet routers are connected.

LAG:

Link Aggregation Group

MAC or IP DA:

MAC or IP Destination Address

MAC or IP SA:

MAC or IP Source Address

ND:

NS:

NA:

Neighbor Discovery

Neighbor Solicitation

Neighbor Advertisement

NUD:

Neighbor Unreachability Detection, as per

[RFC4861]

O Flag:

Override Flag in NA messages, as per

[RFC4861]

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

PE:

Provider Edge router

R Flag:

Router Flag in NA messages, as per

[RFC4861]

RT2:

EVPN Route type 2 or EVPN MAC/IP Advertisement route, as per

[RFC7432]

S Flag:

Solicited Flag in NA messages, as per

[RFC4861]

SN-multicast address:

Solicited-Node IPv6 multicast address used by NS messages

TLLA:

Target Link Layer Address, as per

[RFC4861]

VPLS:

Virtual Private LAN Service

This document assumes familiarity with the terminology used in

[RFC7432]

.

3.  Solution Description

Figure 1 illustrates an example EVPN network where the Proxy ARP/ND function is enabled.

                                                      BD1
                                                  Proxy ARP/ND
                                                 +------------+
IP1/M1          +----------------------------+   |IP1->M1 EVPN|
 GARP --->Proxy ARP/ND                       |   |IP2->M2 EVPN|
+---+      +--------+   RT2(IP1/M1)          |   |IP3->M3 sta |
|CE1+------|   BD1  |    ------>      +------+---|IP4->M4 dyn |
+---+      +--------+                 |          +------------+
               PE1                    | +--------+ Who has IP1?
                |           EVPN      | |   BD1  | <-----  +---+
                |           EVI1      | |        | ----->  |CE3|
IP2/M2          |                     | |        | IP1->M1 +---+
 GARP  --->Proxy ARP/ND               | +--------+   |    IP3/M3
  +---+    +--------+   RT2(IP2/M2)   |              |
  |CE2+----|   BD1  |    ------>      +--------------+
  +---+    +--------+                       PE3|    +---+
               PE2                           | +----+CE4|
                +----------------------------+      +---+
                                              <---IP4/M4 GARP

Figure 1: Proxy ARP/ND Network Example

When the Proxy ARP/ND function is enabled in a BD (Broadcast Domain) of the EVPN PEs, each
PE creates a Proxy table speciﬁc to that BD that can contain three types of Proxy ARP/ND entries:

Dynamic entries:

Learned by snooping a CE's ARP and ND messages; for instance, see IP4->M4 in Figure 1.

Static entries:

Provisioned on the PE by the management system; for instance, see IP3->M3 in Figure 1.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

EVPN-learned entries:

Learned from the IP/MAC information encoded in the received RT2's coming from remote PEs;
for instance, see IP1->M1 and IP2->M2 in Figure 1.

As a high-level example, the operation of the EVPN Proxy ARP/ND function in the network of
Figure 1 is described below. In this example, we assume IP1, IP2, and IP3 are IPv4 addresses:

1.

Proxy ARP/ND is enabled in BD1 of PE1, PE2, and PE3.

2.

The PEs start adding dynamic, static, and EVPN-learned entries to their Proxy tables:
a.

PE3 adds IP1->M1 and IP2->M2 based on the EVPN routes received from PE1 and PE2. Those
entries were previously learned as dynamic entries in PE1 and PE2, respectively, and
advertised in BGP EVPN.

b.

PE3 adds IP4->M4 as dynamic. This entry is learned by snooping the corresponding ARP
messages sent by CE4.

c.

An operator also provisions the static entry IP3->M3.

3.

When CE3 sends an ARP Request asking for the MAC address of IP1, PE3 will:
a.

Intercept the ARP Request and perform a Proxy ARP lookup for IP1.

b.

If the lookup is successful (as in Figure 1), PE3 will send an ARP Reply with IP1->M1. The ARP
Request will not be ﬂooded to the EVPN network or any other local CEs.

c.

If the lookup is not successful, PE3 will ﬂood the ARP Request in the EVPN network and the
other local CEs.

In the same example, if we assume IP1, IP2, IP3, and IP4 are now IPv6 addresses and Proxy ARP/
ND is enabled in BD1:

1.

PEs will start adding entries in a similar way as they would for IPv4; however, there are some
diﬀerences:
a.

IP1->M1 and IP2->M2 are learned as dynamic entries in PE1 and PE2, respectively, by
snooping NA messages and not by snooping NS messages. In the IPv4 case, any ARP frame
can be snooped to learn the dynamic Proxy ARP entry. When learning the dynamic entries,
the R and O Flags contained in the snooped NA messages will be added to the Proxy ND
entries too.

b.

PE1 and PE2 will advertise those entries in EVPN MAC/IP Advertisement routes, including
the corresponding learned R and O Flags in the ARP/ND Extended Community.

c.

PE3 also adds IP4->M4 as dynamic after snooping an NA message sent by CE4.

2.

When CE3 sends an NS message asking for the MAC address of IP1, PE3 behaves as in the IPv4
example, by intercepting the NS, performing a lookup on the IP, and replying with an NA if the
lookup is successful. If it is successful, the NS is not ﬂooded to the EVPN PEs or any other local
CEs.

3.

If the lookup is not successful, PE3 will ﬂood the NS to remote EVPN PEs attached to the same
BD and the other local CEs as in the IPv4 case.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

As PE3 learns more and more host entries in the Proxy ARP/ND table, the ﬂooding of ARP Request
messages among PEs is reduced and in some cases, it can even be suppressed. In a network where
most of the participant CEs are not moving between PEs and are advertising their presence with
GARPs or unsolicited-NA messages, the ARP/ND ﬂooding among PEs, as well as the unknown
unicast ﬂooding, can practically be suppressed. In an EVPN-based IXP network, where all the
entries are static, the ARP/ND ﬂooding among PEs is in fact totally suppressed.

In a network where CEs move between PEs, the Proxy ARP/ND function relies on the CE signaling
its new location via GARP or unsolicited-NA messages so that tables are immediately updated. If a
CE moves "silently", that is, without issuing any GARP or NA message upon getting attached to the
destination PE, the mechanisms described in Section 3.5 make sure that the Proxy ARP/ND tables
are eventually updated.

3.1.  Proxy ARP/ND Sub-functions

The Proxy ARP/ND function can be structured in six sub-functions or procedures:

1.

Learning sub-function

2.

Reply sub-function

3.

Unicast-forward sub-function

4.

Maintenance sub-function

5.

Flood handling sub-function

6.

Duplicate IP detection sub-function

A Proxy ARP/ND implementation
duplicate IP detection sub-functions. The following sections describe each individual sub-
function.

 at least support the Learning, Reply, Maintenance, and

MUST

3.2.  Learning Sub-function

A Proxy ARP/ND implementation in an EVPN BD
entries and

 support static entries.

SHOULD

MUST

 support dynamic and EVPN-learned

[RFC9047]

Static entries are provisioned from the management plane. A static entry is conﬁgured on the PE
attached to the host using the IP address in that entry. The provisioned static IP->MAC entry
MUST
be advertised in EVPN with an ARP/ND Extended Community where the Immutable ARP/ND
Binding Flag (I) is set to 1, as per
is 1, the advertising PE indicates that the IP address must not be associated to a MAC other than
the one included in the EVPN MAC/IP Advertisement route. The advertisement of I = 1 in the ARP/
ND Extended Community is compatible with any value of the Sticky bit (S) or sequence number in
the
Community refers to the immutable conﬁgured association between the IP and the MAC address
in the IP->MAC binding, whereas the S bit in the MAC Mobility Extended Community refers to the
fact that the advertised MAC address is not subject to the

 MAC Mobility Extended Community. Note that the I bit in the ARP/ND Extended

. When the I Flag in the ARP/ND Extended Community

 mobility procedures.

[RFC7432]

[RFC7432]

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

An entry may associate a conﬁgured static IP to a list of potential MACs, i.e., IP1-
>(MAC1,MAC2..MACN). Until a frame (including a local ARP/NA message) is received from the CE,
the PE will not advertise any IP1->MAC in EVPN. Upon receiving traﬃc from the CE, the PE will
check that the source MAC, e.g., MAC1, is included in the list of allowed MACs. Only in that case,
the PE will activate the IP1->MAC1 and advertise only that IP1 and MAC1 in an EVPN MAC/IP
Advertisement route.

MUST

The PE
routes containing a MAC and IP address.

 create EVPN-learned entries from the received valid EVPN MAC/IP Advertisement

Dynamic entries are learned in diﬀerent ways depending on whether the entry contains an IPv4
or IPv6 address:

Proxy ARP dynamic entries:

MUST

 snoop all ARP packets (that is, all frames with Ethertype 0x0806) received from

The PE
the CEs attached to the BD in order to learn dynamic entries. ARP packets received from
remote EVPN PEs attached to the same BD are not snooped. The Learning function will add the
sender MAC and sender IP of the snooped ARP packet to the Proxy ARP table. Note that a MAC
or an IP address with value 0

 be learned.

SHOULD NOT

Proxy ND dynamic entries:
MUST

 snoop the NA messages (Ethertype 0x86dd, ICMPv6 type 136) received from the

The PE
CEs attached to the BD and learn dynamic entries from the Target Address and TLLA
information. NA messages received from remote EVPN PEs are not snooped. A PE
implementing Proxy ND as in this document
NS messages because they don't contain the R Flag required by the Proxy ND reply function.
See Section 3.2.1 for more information about the R Flag.

 create dynamic IP->MAC entries from

MUST NOT

This document speciﬁes an "anycast" capability that can be conﬁgured for the Proxy ND
function of the PE and aﬀects how dynamic Proxy ND entries are learned based on the O Flag
of the snooped NA messages. If the O Flag is zero in the received NA message, the IP->MAC
SHOULD
an NA message with O Flag = 0 will be normally forwarded by the PE based on a MAC DA
lookup.

 only be learned in case the IPv6 "anycast" capability is enabled in the BD. Irrespective,

The following procedure associated to the Learning sub-function is

:
RECOMMENDED

•

When a new Proxy ARP/ND EVPN or static active entry is learned (or provisioned), the PE
SHOULD

 send a GARP or unsolicited-NA message to all the connected access CEs. The PE
 send a GARP or unsolicited-NA message for dynamic entries only if the ARP/NA

SHOULD
message that previously created the entry on the PE was NOT ﬂooded to all the local
connected CEs before. This GARP/unsolicited-NA message makes sure the CE ARP/ND caches
are updated even if the ARP/NS/NA messages from CEs connected to remote PEs are not
ﬂooded in the EVPN network.

Note that if a static entry is provisioned with the same IP as an existing EVPN-learned or dynamic
entry, the static entry takes precedence.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

In case of a PE reboot, the static and EVPN entries will be re-added as soon as the PE is back online
and receives all the EVPN routes for the BD. However, the dynamic entries will be gone. Due to
that reason, new NS and ARP Requests will be ﬂooded by the PE to remote PEs and dynamic
entries gradually relearned again.

3.2.1.  Proxy ND and the NA Flags

[RFC4861]

 describes the use of the R Flag in IPv6 address resolution:

•

Nodes capable of routing IPv6 packets must reply to NS messages with NA messages where
the R Flag is set (R Flag = 1).

•

Hosts that are not able to route IPv6 packets must indicate that inability by replying with NA
messages that contain R Flag = 0.

The use of the R Flag in NA messages has an impact on how hosts select their default gateways
:
when sending packets oﬀ-link, as per

[RFC4861]

•

Hosts build a Default Router List based on the received RAs and NAs with R Flag = 1. Each
cache entry has an IsRouter ﬂag, which must be set for received RAs and is set based on the R
Flag in the received NAs. A host can choose one or more Default Routers when sending
packets oﬀ-link.

•

In those cases where the IsRouter ﬂag changes from TRUE to FALSE as a result of an NA
update, the node must remove that router from the Default Router List and update the
Destination Cache entries for all destinations using that neighbor as a router, as speciﬁed in
. This is needed to detect when a node that is used as a router stops
Section 7.3.3 of [RFC4861]
forwarding packets due to being conﬁgured as a host.

The R and O Flags for a Proxy ARP/ND entry will be learned in the following ways:

•

The R Flag information
The O Flag information
are not conﬁgured, the default value is 1.

SHOULD

MAY

 be added to the static entries by the management interface.
 also be added by the management interface. If the R and O Flags

•

Dynamic entries
SHOULD
messages used to learn the IP->MAC itself.

 learn the R Flag and

MAY

 learn the O Flag from the snooped NA

•

MAY

 learn the R Flag and

SHOULD
[RFC9047]

 received from EVPN along with the RT2 used to learn the IP-

EVPN-learned entries
Extended Community
>MAC itself. If no ARP/ND Extended Community is received, the PE will add a conﬁgured R
Flag / O Flag to the entry. These conﬁgured R and O Flags
 be an administrative choice
with a default value of 1. The conﬁguration of this administrative choice provides a
backwards-compatible option with EVPN PEs that follow
speciﬁcation.

 learn the O Flag from the ARP/ND

 but do not support this

[RFC7432]

MAY

Note that, typically, IP->MAC entries with O = 0 will not be learned; therefore, the Proxy ND
function will reply to NS messages with NA messages that contain O = 1. However, this document
allows the conﬁguration of the "anycast" capability in the BD where the Proxy ND function is
enabled. If "anycast" is enabled in the BD and an NA message with O = 0 is received, the associated
IP->MAC entry will be learned with O = 0. If this "anycast" capability is enabled in the BD, duplicate

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

IP detection must be disabled so that the PE is able to learn the same IP mapped to diﬀerent MACs
in the same Proxy ND table. If the "anycast" capability is disabled, NA messages with O Flag = 0
will not create a Proxy ND entry (although they will be forwarded normally); hence, no EVPN
advertisement with ARP/ND Extended Community will be generated.

3.3.  Reply Sub-function

This sub-function will reply to address resolution requests/solicitations upon successful lookup in
the Proxy ARP/ND table for a given IP address. The following considerations should be taken into
account, assuming that the ARP Request / NS lookup hits a Proxy ARP/ND entry IP1->MAC1:

a.

When replying to ARP Requests or NS messages:
◦

SHOULD

 use the Proxy ARP/ND entry MAC address MAC1 as MAC SA. This is
 so that the resolved MAC can be learned in the MAC forwarding database

The PE
RECOMMENDED
of potential Layer 2 switches sitting between the PE and the CE requesting the address
resolution.

◦

For an ARP reply, the PE
sender Protocol Address and Hardware Address ﬁelds, respectively.

 use the Proxy ARP entry IP1 and MAC1 addresses in the

MUST

◦

For an NA message in response to an address resolution NS or DAD NS, the PE
as the IP SA and Target Address. M1
MUST

 use IP1
 be used as the Target Link Local Address (TLLA).

MUST

b.

SHOULD NOT

 reply to a request/solicitation received on the same attachment circuit

A PE
over which the IP->MAC is learned. In this case, the requester and the requested IP are
assumed to be connected to the same Layer 2 CE/access network linked to the PE's
attachment circuit; therefore, the requested IP owner will receive the request directly.

c.

SHOULD

 reply to broadcast/multicast address resolution messages, i.e., ARP Requests,

A PE
ARP probes, NS messages, as well as DAD NS messages. An ARP probe is an ARP Request
constructed with an all-zero sender IP address that may be used by hosts for IPv4 Address
Conﬂict Detection as speciﬁed in
resolution requests (for instance, NUD NS messages).

 reply to unicast address

SHOULD NOT

[RFC5227]

. A PE

d.

When replying to an NS, a PE
◦

The R bit is set as it was learned for the IP->MAC entry in the NA messages that created the
entry (see Section 3.2.1).

SHOULD

 set the Flags in the NA messages as follows:

◦

The S Flag will be set/unset as per

[RFC4861]

.

◦

The O Flag will be set in all the NA messages issued by the PE except in the case in which the
BD is conﬁgured with the "anycast" capability and the entry was previously learned with O
= 0. If "anycast" is enabled and there is more than one MAC for a given IP in the Proxy ND
table, the PE will reply to NS messages with as many NA responses as "anycast" entries there
are in the Proxy ND table.

e.

For Proxy ARP, a PE

MUST

 only reply to ARP Requests with the format speciﬁed in

[RFC0826]

.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

f.

MAY

 and

MUST
[RFC4861]

 reply, discard, forward, or unicast-forward NS

 reply to NS messages with known options with the format and

For Proxy ND, a PE
options speciﬁed in
messages containing other options. An administrative choice to control the behavior for
received NS messages with unknown options ("reply", "discard", "unicast-forward", or
"forward")
◦

The "reply" option implies that the PE ignores the unknown options and replies with NA
messages, assuming a successful lookup on the Proxy ND table. An unsuccessful lookup will
result in a "forward" behavior (i.e., ﬂood the NS message based on the MAC DA).

 be supported.

MAY

◦

If "discard" is available, the operator should assess if ﬂooding NS unknown options may be
a security risk for the EVPN BD (and if so, enable "discard") or, on the contrary, if not
forwarding/ﬂooding NS unknown options may disrupt connectivity. This option discards
NS messages with unknown options irrespective of the result of the lookup on the Proxy ND
table.

◦

The "unicast-forward" option is described in Section 3.4.

◦

The "forward" option implies ﬂooding the NS message based on the MAC DA. This option
forwards NS messages with unknown options irrespective of the result of the lookup on the
Proxy ND table. The "forward" option is

 by this document.

RECOMMENDED

3.4.  Unicast-Forward Sub-function

As discussed in Section 3.3, in some cases, the operator may want to "unicast-forward" certain
ARP Requests and NS messages as opposed to reply to them. The implementation of a "unicast-
forward" function is
parameters:

. This option can be enabled with one of the following

RECOMMENDED

a.

unicast-forward always

b.

unicast-forward unknown-options

If "unicast-forward always" is enabled, the PE will perform a Proxy ARP/ND table lookup and, in
case of a hit, the PE will forward the packet to the owner of the MAC found in the Proxy ARP/ND
table. This is irrespective of the options carried in the ARP/ND packet. This option provides total
transparency in the BD and yet reduces the amount of ﬂooding signiﬁcantly.

If "unicast-forward unknown-options" is enabled, upon a successful Proxy ARP/ND lookup, the PE
will perform a "unicast-forward" action only if the ARP Requests or NS messages carry unknown
options, as explained in Section 3.3. The "unicast-forward unknown-options" conﬁguration allows
the support of new applications using ARP/ND in the BD while still reducing the ﬂooding.

Irrespective of the enabled option, if there is no successful Proxy ARP/ND lookup, the unknown
ARP Request / NS message will be ﬂooded in the context of the BD, as per Section 3.6.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

3.5.  Maintenance Sub-function

SHOULD

The Proxy ARP/ND tables
dynamic IP->MAC entries are kept if the owner is active and ﬂushed (and the associated RT2
withdrawn) or if the owner is no longer in the network. The following procedures are
:
RECOMMENDED

 follow a number of maintenance procedures so that the

Age-time:

MUST

A dynamic Proxy ARP/ND entry
 be ﬂushed out of the table if the IP->MAC has not been
refreshed within a given age-time. The entry is refreshed if an ARP or NA message is received
for the same IP->MAC entry. The age-time is an administrative option, and its value should be
carefully chosen depending on the speciﬁc use case; in IXP networks (where the CE routers are
fairly static), the age-time may normally be longer than in DC networks (where mobility is
required).

Send-refresh option:

MAY

The PE
 send periodic refresh messages (ARP/ND "probes") to the owners of the dynamic
Proxy ARP/ND entries, so that the entries can be refreshed before they age out. The owner of
the IP->MAC entry would reply to the ARP/ND probe and the corresponding entry age-time
reset. The periodic send-refresh timer is an administrative option and is
a third of the age-time or a half of the age-time in scaled networks.

RECOMMENDED

 to be

An ARP refresh issued by the PE will be an ARP Request message with the sender's IP = 0 sent
from the PE's MAC SA. If the PE has an IP address in the subnet, for instance, on an Integrated
Routing and Bridging (IRB) interface, then it
MAY
(instead of sender's IP = 0). An ND refresh will be an NS message issued from the PE's MAC SA
and a Link Local Address associated to the PE's MAC.

 use it as a source for the ARP Request

The refresh request messages
 be sent only for dynamic entries and not for static or
EVPN-learned entries. Even though the refresh request messages are broadcast or multicast,
the PE
 only send the message to the attachment circuit associated to the MAC in the
SHOULD
IP->MAC entry.

SHOULD

The age-time and send-refresh options are used in EVPN networks to avoid unnecessary EVPN
RT2 withdrawals; if refresh messages are sent before the corresponding BD Bridge-Table and
Proxy ARP/ND age-time for a given entry expires, inactive but existing hosts will reply, refreshing
the entry and therefore avoiding unnecessary EVPN MAC/IP Advertisement withdrawals in EVPN.
Both entries (MAC in the BD and IP->MAC in the Proxy ARP/ND) are reset when the owner replies
to the ARP/ND probe. If there is no response to the ARP/ND probe, the MAC and IP->MAC entries
will be legitimately ﬂushed and the RT2s withdrawn.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

3.6.  Flood (to Remote PEs) Handling

The Proxy ARP/ND function implicitly helps reduce the ﬂooding of ARP Requests and NS messages
to remote PEs in an EVPN network. However, in certain use cases, the ﬂooding of ARP/NS/NA
messages (and even the unknown unicast ﬂooding) to remote PEs can be suppressed completely
in an EVPN network.

For instance, in an IXP network, since all the participant CEs are well known and will not move to
a diﬀerent PE, the IP->MAC entries for the local CEs may be all provisioned on the PEs by a
management system. Assuming the entries for the CEs are all provisioned on the local PE, a given
Proxy ARP/ND table will only contain static and EVPN-learned entries. In this case, the operator
may choose to suppress the ﬂooding of ARP/NS/NA from the local PE to the remote PEs completely.

The ﬂooding may also be suppressed completely in IXP networks with dynamic Proxy ARP/ND
entries assuming that all the CEs are directly connected to the PEs and that they all advertise their
presence with a GARP/unsolicited-NA when they connect to the network. If any of those two
assumptions are not true and any of the PEs may not learn all the local Proxy ARP/ND entries,
ﬂooding of the ARP/NS/NA messages from the local PE to the remote PEs
suppressed, or the address resolution process for some CEs will not be completed.

SHOULD NOT

 be

In networks where fast mobility is expected (DC use case), it is
ﬂooding of unknown ARP Requests / NS messages or GARPs/unsolicited-NAs. Unknown ARP
Requests / NS messages refer to those ARP Requests / NS messages for which the Proxy ARP/ND
lookups for the requested IPs do not succeed.

NOT RECOMMENDED

 to suppress the

In order to give the operator the choice to suppress/allow the ﬂooding to remote PEs, a PE
support administrative options to individually suppress/allow the ﬂooding of:

MAY

•

Unknown ARP Requests and NS messages.

•

GARP and unsolicited-NA messages.

The operator will use these options based on the expected behavior on the CEs.

3.7.  Duplicate IP Detection

MUST

 support duplicate IP detection as per this section so that ARP/

The Proxy ARP/ND function
ND-spooﬁng attacks or duplicate IPs due to human errors can be detected. For IPv6 addresses, CEs
will continue to carry out the DAD procedures as per
section is an additional security mechanism carried out by the PEs that guarantees IPv6 address
moves between PEs are legitimate and not the result of an attack.
 describes a solution
for the IPv6 Duplicate Address Detection Proxy; however, it is deﬁned for point-to-multipoint
topologies with a split-horizon forwarding, where the "CEs" have no direct communication within
the same L2 link; therefore, it is not suitable for EVPN Broadcast Domains. In addition, the
solution described in this section includes the use of the AS-MAC for additional security.

. The solution described in this

[RFC6957]

[RFC4862]

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

ARP/ND spooﬁng is a technique whereby an attacker sends "fake" ARP/ND messages onto a
Broadcast Domain. Generally, the aim is to associate the attacker's MAC address with the IP
address of another host causing any traﬃc meant for that IP address to be sent to the attacker
instead.

The distributed nature of EVPN and Proxy ARP/ND allows the easy detection of duplicated IPs in
[RFC7432]
the network in a similar way to the MAC duplication detection function supported by
for MAC addresses.

Duplicate IP detection monitors "IP-moves" in the Proxy ARP/ND table in the following way:

a.

When an existing active IP1->MAC1 entry is modiﬁed, a PE starts an M-second timer (default
value of M = 180), and if it detects N IP moves before the timer expires (default value of N =
g5), it concludes that a duplicate IP situation has occurred. An IP move is considered when,
for instance, IP1->MAC1 is replaced by IP1->MAC2 in the Proxy ARP/ND table. Static IP->MAC
entries, i.e., locally provisioned or EVPN-learned entries with I = 1 in the ARP/ND Extended
Community, are not subject to this procedure. Static entries
dynamic Proxy ARP/ND entries.

 be overridden by

MUST NOT

b.

MAY

SHOULD

RECOMMENDED

 send a Conﬁrm message to the

 use it) and an IPv6 Link Local Address in case of NS. If the

In order to detect the duplicate IP faster, the PE
former owner of the IP. A Conﬁrm message is a unicast ARP Request / NS message sent by the
PE to the MAC addresses that previously owned the IP, when the MAC changes in the Proxy
ARP/ND table. The Conﬁrm message uses a sender's IP 0.0.0.0 in case of ARP (if the PE has an IP
address in the subnet, then it
PE does not receive an answer within a given time, the new entry will be conﬁrmed and
activated. The default
of spooﬁng, for instance, if IP1->MAC1 moves to IP1->MAC2, the PE may send a unicast ARP
Request / NS message for IP1 with MAC DA = MAC1 and MAC SA = PE's MAC. This will force the
legitimate owner to respond if the move to MAC2 was spoofed and make the PE issue another
Conﬁrm message, this time to MAC DA = MAC2. If both, the legitimate owner and spoofer keep
replying to the Conﬁrm message. The PE would then detect the duplicate IP within the M-
second timer, and a response would be triggered as follows:
◦

If the IP1->MAC1 pair was previously owned by the spoofer and the new IP1->MAC2 was
from a valid CE, then the issued Conﬁrm message would trigger a response from the
spoofer.

 time to receive the conﬁrmation is 30 seconds. In case

◦

If it were the other way around, that is, IP1->MAC1 was previously owned by a valid CE, the
Conﬁrm message would trigger a response from the CE.

Either way, if this process continues, then duplicate detection will kick in.

c.

Upon detecting a duplicate IP situation:
1.

The entry in duplicate detected state cannot be updated with new dynamic or EVPN-
learned entries for the same IP. The operator
IP->MAC.

 override the entry, though, with a static

MAY

2.

SHOULD

The PE
a corrective action is taken.

 alert the operator and stop responding to ARP/NS for the duplicate IP until

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

3.

MAY

 associate an "anti-spooﬁng-mac" (AS-MAC) to the duplicate IP in the
Optionally, the PE
Proxy ARP/ND table. The PE will send a GARP/unsolicited-NA message with IP1->AS-MAC to
the local CEs as well as an RT2 (with IP1->AS-MAC) to the remote PEs. This will update the
ARP/ND caches on all the CEs in the BD; hence, all the CEs in the BD will use the AS-MAC as
MAC DA when sending traﬃc to IP1. This procedure prevents the spoofer from attracting
any traﬃc for IP1. Since the AS-MAC is a managed MAC address known by all the PEs in the
BD, all the PEs
 apply ﬁlters to drop and/or log any frame with MAC DA = AS-MAC. The
advertisement of the AS-MAC as a "drop-MAC" (by using an indication in the RT2) that can
be used directly in the BD to drop frames is for further study.

MAY

d.

The duplicate IP situation will be cleared when a corrective action is taken by the operator or,
alternatively, after a HOLD-DOWN timer (default value of 540 seconds).

The values of M, N, and HOLD-DOWN timer
allow for the required ﬂexibility in diﬀerent scenarios.

SHOULD

 be a conﬁgurable administrative option to

For Proxy ND, the duplicate IP detection described in this section
for IP->MACs learned from NA messages with O Flag = 1. NA messages with O Flag = 0 would not
override the ND cache entries for an existing IP; therefore, the procedure in this section would not
detect duplicate IPs. This duplicate IP detection for IPv6
"anycast" capability is activated in a given BD.

 be disabled when the IPv6

 only monitor IP moves

SHOULD

SHOULD

4.  Solution Beneﬁts

The solution described in this document provides the following beneﬁts:

a.

May completely suppress the ﬂooding of the ARP/ND messages in the EVPN network,
assuming that all the CE IP->MAC addresses local to the PEs are known or provisioned on the
PEs from a management system. Note that in this case, the unknown unicast ﬂooded traﬃc
can also be suppressed, since all the expected unicast traﬃc will be destined to known MAC
addresses in the PE BDs.

b.

Signiﬁcantly reduces the ﬂooding of the ARP/ND messages in the EVPN network, assuming
that some or all the CE IP->MAC addresses are learned on the data plane by snooping ARP/ND
messages issued by the CEs.

c.

Provides a way to refresh periodically the CE IP->MAC entries learned through the data plane
so that the IP->MAC entries are not withdrawn by EVPN when they age out unless the CE is not
active anymore. This option helps reducing the EVPN control plane overhead in a network
with active CEs that do not send packets frequently.

d.

Provides a mechanism to detect duplicate IP addresses and avoid ARP/ND-spoof attacks or
the eﬀects of duplicate addresses due to human errors.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

5.  Deployment Scenarios

Four deployment scenarios with diﬀerent levels of ARP/ND control are available to operators
using this solution depending on their requirements to manage ARP/ND: all dynamic learning, all
dynamic learning with Proxy ARP/ND, hybrid dynamic learning and static provisioning with
Proxy ARP/ND, and all static provisioning with Proxy ARP/ND.

5.1.  All Dynamic Learning

In this scenario for minimum security and mitigation, EVPN is deployed in the BD with the Proxy
ARP/ND function shutdown. PEs do not intercept ARP/ND requests and ﬂood all requests issued by
the CEs as a conventional Layer 2 network among those CEs would suﬃce. While no ARP/ND
mitigation is used in this scenario, the operator can still take advantage of EVPN features such as
control plane learning and all-active multihoming in the peering network.

Although this option does not require any of the procedures described in this document, it is
added as a baseline/default option for completeness. This option is equivalent to VPLS as far as
ARP/ND is concerned. The options described in Sections 5.2, 5.3, and 5.4 are only possible in EVPN
networks in combination with their Proxy ARP/ND capabilities.

5.2.  Dynamic Learning with Proxy ARP/ND

This scenario minimizes ﬂooding while enabling dynamic learning of IP->MAC entries. The Proxy
ARP/ND function is enabled in the BDs of the EVPN PEs so that the PEs snoop ARP/ND messages
issued by the CEs and respond to CE ARP Requests / NS messages.

PEs will ﬂood requests if the entry is not in their Proxy table. Any unknown source IP->MAC
entries will be learned and advertised in EVPN, and traﬃc to unknown entries is discarded at the
ingress PE.

This scenario makes use of the Learning, Reply, and Maintenance sub-functions, with an optional
use of the Unicast-forward and duplicate IP detection sub-functions. The Flood handling sub-
function uses default ﬂooding for unknown ARP Requests / NS messages.

5.3.  Hybrid Dynamic Learning and Static Provisioning with Proxy ARP/ND

Some IXPs and other operators want to protect particular hosts on the BD while allowing
dynamic learning of CE addresses. For example, an operator may want to conﬁgure static IP-
>MAC entries for management and infrastructure hosts that provide critical services. In this
scenario, static entries are provisioned from the management plane for protected IP->MAC
addresses, and dynamic learning with Proxy ARP/ND is enabled as described in Section 5.2 on the
BD.

This scenario makes use of the same sub-functions as in Section 5.2 but with static entries added
by the Learning sub-function.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

5.4.  All Static Provisioning with Proxy ARP/ND

For a solution that maximizes security and eliminates ﬂooding and unknown unicast in the
peering network, all IP->MAC entries are provisioned from the management plane. The Proxy
ARP/ND function is enabled in the BDs of the EVPN PEs so that the PEs intercept and respond to CE
requests. Dynamic learning and ARP/ND snooping is disabled so that ARP Requests and NS
messages to unknown IPs are discarded at the ingress PE. This scenario provides an operator the
most control over IP->MAC entries and allows an operator to manage all entries from a
management system.

In this scenario, the Learning sub-function is limited to static entries, the Maintenance sub-
function will not require any procedures due to the static entries, and the Flood handling sub-
function will completely suppress unknown ARP Requests / NS messages as well as GARP and
unsolicited-NA messages.

5.5.  Example of Deployment in Internet Exchange Points

Nowadays, almost all IXPs install some security rules in order to protect the peering network
(BD). These rules are often called port security. Port security summarizes diﬀerent operational
steps that limit the access to the IXP-LAN and the customer router and controls the kind of traﬃc
that the routers are allowed to exchange (e.g., Ethernet, IPv4, and IPv6). Due to this, the
deployment scenario as described in Section 5.4, "All Static Provisioning with Proxy ARP/ND", is
the predominant scenario for IXPs.

In addition to the "All Static Provisioning" behavior, in IXP networks it is recommended to
conﬁgure the Reply sub-function to "discard" ARP Requests / NS messages with unrecognized
options.

At IXPs, customers usually follow a certain operational life cycle. For each step of the operational
life cycle, speciﬁc operational procedures are executed.

The following describes the operational procedures that are needed to guarantee port security
throughout the life cycle of a customer with focus on EVPN features:

1.

A new customer is connected the ﬁrst time to the IXP:

Before the connection between the customer router and the IXP-LAN is activated, the MAC of
the router is allowlisted on the IXP's switch port. All other MAC addresses are blocked. Pre-
deﬁned IPv4 and IPv6 addresses of the IXP peering network space are conﬁgured at the
customer router. The IP->MAC static entries (IPv4 and IPv6) are conﬁgured in the
management system of the IXP for the customer's port in order to support Proxy ARP/ND.

In case a customer uses multiple ports aggregated to a single logical port (LAG), some vendors
randomly select the MAC address of the LAG from the diﬀerent MAC addresses assigned to the
ports. In this case, the static entry will be used and associated to a list of allowed MACs.

2.

Replacement of customer router:

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

If a customer router is about to be replaced, the new MAC address(es) must be installed in the
management system in addition to the MAC address(es) of the currently connected router.
This allows the customer to replace the router without any active involvement of the IXP
operator. For this, static entries are also used. After the replacement takes place, the MAC
address(es) of the replaced router can be removed.

3.

Decommissioning a customer router:

If a customer router is decommissioned, the router is disconnected from the IXP PE. Right
after that, the MAC address(es) of the router and IP->MAC bindings can be removed from the
management system.

5.6.  Example of Deployment in Data Centers

DCs normally have diﬀerent requirements than IXPs in terms of Proxy ARP/ND. Some diﬀerences
are listed below:

a.

The required mobility in virtualized DCs makes the "Dynamic Learning" or "Hybrid Dynamic
and Static Provisioning" models more appropriate than the "All Static Provisioning" model.

b.

IPv6 "anycast" may be required in DCs, while it is typically not a requirement in IXP networks.
Therefore, if the DC needs IPv6 anycast addresses, the "anycast" capability will be explicitly
enabled in the Proxy ND function and hence the Proxy ND sub-functions modiﬁed
accordingly. For instance, if IPv6 "anycast" is enabled in the Proxy ND function, the duplicate
IP detection procedure in Section 3.7 must be disabled.

c.

DCs may require special options on ARP/ND as opposed to the address resolution function,
which is the only one typically required in IXPs. Based on that, the Reply sub-function may be
modiﬁed to forward or discard unknown options.

6.  Security Considerations

The security considerations of
 and
EVPN does not inherently provide cryptographic protection (including conﬁdentiality
protection).

 apply to this document too. Note that

[RFC9047]

[RFC7432]

The procedures in this document reduce the amount of ARP/ND message ﬂooding, which in itself
provides a protection to "slow path" software processors of routers and Tenant Systems in large
BDs. The ARP/ND requests that are replied to by the Proxy ARP/ND function (hence not ﬂooded)
are normally targeted to existing hosts in the BD. ARP/ND requests targeted to absent hosts are
still normally ﬂooded; however, the suppression of unknown ARP Requests and NS messages
described in Section 3.6 can provide an additional level of security against ARP Requests / NS
messages issued to non-existing hosts.

While the unicast-forward and/or ﬂood suppression sub-functions provide an added security
mechanism for the BD, they can also increase the risk of blocking the service for a CE if the EVPN
PEs cannot provide the ARP/ND resolution that the CE needs.

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

The solution also provides protection against Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks that use ARP/ND
spooﬁng as a ﬁrst step. The duplicate IP detection and the use of an AS-MAC as explained in
Section 3.7 protects the BD against ARP/ND spooﬁng.

The Proxy ARP/ND function speciﬁed in this document does not allow for the learning of an IP
address mapped to multiple MAC addresses in the same table unless the "anycast" capability is
enabled (and only in case of Proxy ND). When "anycast" is enabled in the Proxy ND function, the
number of allowed entries for the same IP address
 be limited by the operator to prevent
DoS attacks that attempt to ﬁll the Proxy ND table with a signiﬁcant number of entries for the
same IP.

MUST

This document provides some examples and guidelines that can be used by IXPs in their EVPN
BDs. When EVPN and its associated Proxy ARP/ND function are used in IXP networks, they
provide ARP/ND security and mitigation. IXPs must still employ additional security mechanisms
that protect the peering network as per the established BCPs such as the ones described in
[EURO-
IX-BCP]
protocols from CEs so that only IPv4, ARP, and IPv6 Ethertypes are permitted on the peering
network. In addition, port security features and ACLs can provide an additional level of security.

. For example, IXPs should disable all unneeded control protocols and block unwanted

Finally, it is worth noting that the Proxy ARP/ND solution in this document will not work if there is
a mechanism securing ARP/ND exchanges among CEs because the PE is not able to secure the
"proxied" ND messages.

7.  IANA Considerations

This document has no IANA actions.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

[RFC0826]

[RFC2119]

[RFC4861]

[RFC5227]

,

Plummer, D. "An Ethernet Address Resolution Protocol: Or Converting Network
Protocol Addresses to 48.bit Ethernet Address for Transmission on Ethernet
<https://
Hardware" STD 37 RFC 826 DOI 10.17487/RFC0826
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc826>
.

, November 1982,

,

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
,
rfc2119>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Narten, T. Nordmark, E. Simpson, W.
,
IP version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 4861 DOI 10.17487/RFC4861
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4861>

, and

,

,

H. Soliman "Neighbor Discovery for
, September 2007,

<https://

,

,
Cheshire, S. "IPv4 Address Conﬂict Detection" RFC 5227 DOI 10.17487/RFC5227
July 2008,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5227>

,

,

,

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

[RFC7432]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9047]

,

Sajassi, A., Ed. Aggarwal, R. Bitar, N. Isaac, A. Uttaro, J. Drake, J.
Henderickx "BGP MPLS-Based Ethernet VPN" RFC 7432 DOI 10.17487/RFC7432
,
February 2015,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7432>
.

, and

,
,

W.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
,
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

Rabadan, J., Ed. Sathappan, S. Nagaraj, K.
Flags in an Ethernet Virtual Private Network (EVPN)" RFC 9047 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9047

W. Lin "Propagation of ARP/ND
,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9047>

, June 2021,

, and

,
,

,

8.2.  Informative References

[EURO-IX-BCP]

[RFC4862]

[RFC6820]

[RFC6957]

Euro-IX "European Internet Exchange Association" <https://www.euro-ix.net/

,

,

en/forixps/set-ixp/ixp-bcops>
.

,

Thomson, S. Narten, T.
RFC 4862 DOI 10.17487/RFC4862
.
info/rfc4862>

, and

,

,
T. Jinmei "IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconﬁguration"

,

, September 2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,
Narten, T. Karir, M.
,
Center Networks" RFC 6820 DOI 10.17487/RFC6820
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6820>

, and

,

,

I. Foo "Address Resolution Problems in Large Data

, January 2013,

<https://

,

Costa, F. Combes, J-M., Ed. Pougnard, X.
,
Proxy" RFC 6957 DOI 10.17487/RFC6957
.
info/rfc6957>

,

,

, and
,
, June 2013,

H. Li "Duplicate Address Detection
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

Acknowledgments

The authors want to thank
Krishnan Seshagiri Venugopal Tony Przygienda Robert Raszuk
,
review and contributions. Thank you to

Oliver Knapp

,

,

, and

Iftekhar Hussain

 for their

 as well for his detailed review.

Ranganathan Boovaraghavan Sriram Venkateswaran Manish
,

,

Contributors

In addition to the authors listed on the front page, the following coauthors have also contributed
to this document:

Wim Henderickx
Nokia

Daniel Melzer
DE-CIX Management GmbH

Erik Nordmark
Zededa

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9161

EVPN Proxy ARP/ND

January 2022

Authors' Addresses

editor
)

Jorge Rabadan (
Nokia
777 Middleﬁeld Road
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

,

 jorge.rabadan@nokia.com

Senthil Sathappan
Nokia
701 E. Middleﬁeld Road
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

,

 senthil.sathappan@nokia.com

Kiran Nagaraj
Nokia
701 E. Middleﬁeld Road
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

,

 kiran.nagaraj@nokia.com

Greg Hankins
Nokia
Email:

 greg.hankins@nokia.com

Thomas King
DE-CIX Management GmbH
Email:

 thomas.king@de-cix.net

Rabadan, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

