Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9184
7153, 8955
Standards Track
January 2022
2070-1721
C. Loibl
next layer Telekom GmbH

RFC 9184
BGP Extended Community Registries Update

Abstract

This document updates several BGP Extended Community registries in order to replace the
"Experimental Use" registration procedure in some entries, since their use is clearly not
experimental and is thus misleading.

This document updates RFCs 7153 and 8955.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9184

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Loibl

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9184

BGP Extended Community Registries Update

January 2022

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  IANA Considerations

2.1.  Registry: BGP Transitive Extended Community Types

2.2.  Registry: Generic Transitive Experimental Use Extended Community Sub-Types

2.3.  Registry: Generic Transitive Experimental Use Extended Community Part 2 Sub-Types

2.4.  Registry: Generic Transitive Experimental Use Extended Community Part 3 Sub-Types

3.  Security Considerations

4.  References

4.1.  Normative References

4.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

The IANA registries for the type values and sub-type values of the BGP Extended Communities
attribute were reorganized by
. As a result, IANA maintains a registry entitled "BGP
Transitive Extended Community Types", which includes a range of type values (0x80-0x8F)
reserved for Experimental Use
0x82 have been used in
[RFC8955]

). The primary use for those types and the sub-type registries is non-experimental.

 (both documents were rendered obsolete by

. Out of this experimental range, types 0x80, 0x81, and

[RFC8126]
 and

[RFC7674]

[RFC5575]

[RFC7153]

Section 2 describes updates to the registry to reﬂect the actual use of those code points by
changing the registration procedure from "Experimental Use" to "First Come First Served"
[RFC8126]
names), thereby updating

 for the types 0x80-0x82 (and removing "Experimental Use" from the sub-type registry

[RFC8955]

[RFC7153]

 and

.

2.  IANA Considerations

2.1.  Registry: BGP Transitive Extended Community Types

IANA maintains a registry entitled "BGP Transitive Extended Community Types". IANA has added
RFC 9184 to the reference of this registry. They have also updated the name of the type values
according to Table 1 and added RFC 9184 as a reference for the existing entries.

Loibl

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9184

BGP Extended Community Registries Update

January 2022

Type
Value

0x80

0x81

0x82

Name

Reference

Generic Transitive Extended Community (Sub-Types are deﬁned in
the "Generic Transitive Extended Community Sub-Types" registry)

RFC 9184

Generic Transitive Extended Community Part 2 (Sub-Types are
deﬁned in the "Generic Transitive Extended Community Part 2 Sub-
Types" registry)

Generic Transitive Extended Community Part 3 (Sub-Types are
deﬁned in the "Generic Transitive Extended Community Part 3 Sub-
Types" registry)

RFC 9184

RFC 9184

Table 1: Registry: BGP Transitive Extended Community Types

Furthermore, IANA has changed the registration procedures of this registry for type values 0x80
through 0x82 to First Come First Served
. The resulting registration procedures should
read as in Table 2.

[RFC8126]

Range

Registration Procedures

0x00-0x3f

First Come First Served

0x80-0x82

First Come First Served (see RFC 9184)

0x83-0x8f

Reserved for Experimental Use (see

[RFC3692]

)

0x90-0xbf

Standards Action

Table 2: Registration Procedures: BGP Transitive Extended
Community Types

2.2.  Registry: Generic Transitive Experimental Use Extended Community
Sub-Types

IANA maintains a registry entitled "Generic Transitive Experimental Use Extended Community
Sub-Types". IANA has added RFC 9184 to the reference of this registry and updated the registry title
to:

"Generic Transitive Extended Community Sub-Types"

Loibl

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9184

BGP Extended Community Registries Update

January 2022

2.3.  Registry: Generic Transitive Experimental Use Extended Community
Part 2 Sub-Types

IANA maintains a registry entitled "Generic Transitive Experimental Use Extended Community
Part 2 Sub-Types". IANA has added RFC 9184 to the reference of this registry and updated the
registry title to:

"Generic Transitive Extended Community Part 2 Sub-Types"

2.4.  Registry: Generic Transitive Experimental Use Extended Community
Part 3 Sub-Types

IANA maintains a registry entitled "Generic Transitive Experimental Use Extended Community
Part 3 Sub-Types". IANA has added RFC 9184 to the reference of this registry and updated the
registry title to:

"Generic Transitive Extended Community Part 3 Sub-Types"

3.  Security Considerations

There are no direct security considerations arising from this document.

4.  References

4.1.  Normative References

[RFC7153]

[RFC8126]

 and

Rosen, E.
,
7153 DOI 10.17487/RFC7153
rfc7153>
.

,

Y. Rekhter "IANA Registries for BGP Extended Communities" RFC

,

, March 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

4.2.  Informative References

[RFC3692]

[RFC5575]

,

Narten, T. "Assigning Experimental and Testing Numbers Considered Useful"
,
BCP 82 RFC 3692 DOI 10.17487/RFC3692
.
editor.org/info/rfc3692>

<https://www.rfc-

, January 2004,

,

,

,

Marques, P. Sheth, N. Raszuk, R. Greene, B. Mauch, J.
,
"Dissemination of Flow Speciﬁcation Rules" RFC 5575 DOI 10.17487/RFC5575
August 2009,

, and
,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5575>

D. McPherson

,
,

,

,

,

Loibl

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9184

BGP Extended Community Registries Update

January 2022

[RFC7674]

[RFC8955]

,

Haas, J., Ed. "Clariﬁcation of the Flowspec Redirect Extended Community" RFC
7674 DOI 10.17487/RFC7674
,
rfc7674>
.

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, October 2015,

,

,
Loibl, C. Hares, S. Raszuk, R. McPherson, D.
Flow Speciﬁcation Rules" RFC 8955 DOI 10.17487/RFC8955
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8955>

, and

,

,

,

M. Bacher "Dissemination of

,

, December 2020,

Acknowledgements

The author wants to thank
misleading entries in this context.

Alvaro Retana

, who pointed out that the IANA registry contains

Author's Address

Christoph Loibl
next layer Telekom GmbH
Mariahilfer Guertel 37/7
1150 Vienna
Austria
Phone:
Email:

 +43 664 1176414
 cl@tix.at

Loibl

Standards Track

Page 5

