Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9585
Standards Track
May 2024
2070-1721
M. Bettini
Open-Xchange Oy

RFC 9585
IMAP Response Code for Command Progress
Notifications

Abstract

This document defines a new IMAP untagged response code, "INPROGRESS", that provides
progress notifications regarding the status of long-running commands.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9585
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Bettini

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9585

IMAP Response Code for Command Progress

May 2024

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  CAPABILITY Identification

4.  The "INPROGRESS" Response Code

5.  Formal Syntax

6.  Security Considerations

7.  IANA Considerations

8.  Normative References

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

2

3

3

5

5

6

6

6

[RFC9051]

 can require a considerable amount of time to be completed by the
IMAP commands
server. In these cases, the client has no information about the progress of the commands. It is
already possible to expose updates with a generic untagged response, like "* OK Still on it, 57%
done"; however, this does not provide a standard way to communicate with the client and does
not allow the server to inform the client of the progress of the long-running actions.

This document extends the Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP)

[RFC9051]

 with:

•

[RFC5530]
a new "INPROGRESS" response code
means for a client to receive progress notifications on command completion status.

. The new response code provides a consistent

•

[RFC9051]
a new "INPROGRESS" capability
server emits progress notifications via the "INPROGRESS" response code.

. The new capability informs the client that the

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The word "can" (not "may") is used to refer to a possible circumstance or situation, as opposed to
an optional facility of the protocol.

Conventions for notations are as in

[RFC9051]

 and

[RFC5530]
.

Bettini

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9585

IMAP Response Code for Command Progress

May 2024

In examples, "C:" and "S:" indicate lines sent by the client and server, respectively. Note that each
line includes the terminating CRLF.

3.  CAPABILITY Identification

IMAP servers that support this extension
CAPABILITY command.

MUST

 include "INPROGRESS" in the response list to the

4.  The "INPROGRESS" Response Code

MAY

The server
 send the "INPROGRESS" response code to notify the client about the progress of
the commands in execution or simply to prevent the client from timing out and terminating the
connection. The notifications
notifications, it is

 be sent for any IMAP command. If the server elects to send
 that these are sent every 10-15 seconds.

RECOMMENDED

MAY

The response code is meant to appear embedded inside an untagged OK reply. The response code
MUST NOT
notifications make no sense).

 appear in a tagged response (the command has completed and further progress

The response code

MAY

 embed a list of details, which appear in the following order:

1.

 that originated the long-running command. If the tag is not

[RFC9051]
CMD-TAG: the tag
available or if it contains the "]" character, it
notification, unless multiple commands are in flight simultaneously. A client can ensure
reception of notifications with tags by simply refraining from the use of the character "]" in
the originating command tags.

 be set to NIL. This still produces a usable

MUST

2.

PROGRESS: a number indicating the number of items processed so far. The number
non-negative and
SHOULD
both PROGRESS and GOAL

MUST
 be monotonically increasing. If the PROGRESS is not available,
MUST

 be set to NIL.

 be

3.

SHOULD NOT

GOAL: a number indicating the total number of items to be processed. The number
positive, and it
tag. This is the number that PROGRESS is expected to reach after the completion of the
command; therefore, it
 be greater than PROGRESS. If the GOAL is not known, it
be set to NIL.

 be
 change between successive notifications for the same command

MUST

MUST

MUST

If the response code does not embed a list of details, all details are to be interpreted as NIL.

The server can provide the progress details with different degrees of completeness:

Bettini

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9585

IMAP Response Code for Command Progress

May 2024

- bare keepalive
  * OK [INPROGRESS] Hang in there...
- keepalive with an indication of the command tag
  * OK [INPROGRESS ("tag" NIL NIL)] Hang in there...
- progress notification with unknown GOAL
  * OK [INPROGRESS ("tag" 175 NIL)] Processed 175 items so far
- progress notification with an indication of the GOAL
  * OK [INPROGRESS ("tag" 175 1000)] Processed 17% of the items

Examples:

  C: A001 search text "this will be slow"
    [13 seconds later]
  S: * OK [INPROGRESS ("A001" 454 1000)] Processed 45% of the items
    [14 seconds later]
  S: * OK [INPROGRESS ("A001" 999 1000)] Processed 99% of the items
    [5 seconds later]
  S: * SEARCH 447 735
  S: A001 OK Search completed (23.387 + 0.004 + 0.017 secs).

  C: A003 COPY 2000:4000 Meeting-Minutes
    [12 seconds later]
  S: * OK [INPROGRESS ("A003" 175 2001)] Still working on this...
    [14 seconds later]
  S: * OK [INPROGRESS ("A003" 440 2001)] Still working on this...
    [13 seconds later]
  S: * OK [INPROGRESS ("A003" 987 2001)] Still working on this...
    [14 seconds later]
  S: * OK [INPROGRESS ("A003" 1388 2001)] Still working on this...
    [14 seconds later]
  S: * OK [INPROGRESS ("A003" 1876 2001)] Still working on this...
    [9 seconds later]
  S: A003 OK Copy completed

PROGRESS and GOAL
SHOULD
messages counts. If that is not possible, the counts
and PROGRESS varying between 0 and 99.

 be counts of the kind of item being processed -- in most cases,

SHOULD

 be percentages, with GOAL set to 100

SHOULD NOT

The server
 send a progress notification where PROGRESS equals GOAL, as that
would mean the command is completed. In that case, the proper tagged response should be
emitted instead.

If the command completes before the first server notification deadline, there will be no
notifications at all. The client
server issues a notification for the command.

 assume PROGRESS to be 0 and GOAL to be unknown until the

MUST

While the server
are circumstances where this might not be possible. The client
 be prepared to handle cases
where the server cannot keep GOAL constant and/or PROGRESS monotonically increasing. When

 keep GOAL constant and PROGRESS monotonically increasing, there

SHOULD

MUST

Bettini

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9585

IMAP Response Code for Command Progress

May 2024

the GOAL changes or the PROGRESS goes backward, the
previous GOAL has been reached, but the server discovered that further (long-running) work is
required (with a new known or unknown GOAL).

 interpretation is that the

RECOMMENDED

MAY

 disregard progress notifications entirely or process them only in relation to

The client
specific commands. If a user interface is involved, it is the client's duty to decide which of these
notifications should emerge to the user interface and/or modify the user's ability to interact in
their presence, since this may differ based on implementation details.

MUST NOT

Also, the client
evaluating the progress of the commands. For example, the client must not use the GOAL field in
place of the proper output of a SEARCH command to know the number of messages in a folder.

 consider the values to be authoritative for any other use than

5.  Formal Syntax

The following syntax specification uses the Augmented Backus-Naur Form (ABNF)
notation. Elements not defined here can be found in the formal syntax of the ABNF
and IMAP

 specifications.

[RFC9051]

[RFC5234]
[RFC5234]

Except as noted otherwise, all alphabetic characters are case-insensitive. The use of uppercase or
lowercase characters to define token strings are for editorial clarity only. Implementations
MUST
accept these strings in a case-insensitive fashion.

inprogress-tag              = quoted / nil
inprogress-state-unknown    = nil    SP nil
inprogress-state-counting   = number SP nil
inprogress-state-known-goal = number SP nz-number

inprogress-state = inprogress-state-unknown
                 / inprogress-state-counting
                 / inprogress-state-known-goal

resp-text-code =/ "INPROGRESS" [ SP "(" inprogress-tag SP
                                        inprogress-state ")" ]

6.  Security Considerations

The details of the response code are not expected to disclose any information that isn't currently
available from the command output. The progress details could be obtained anyway by sending a
series of commands with different workloads -- by either constructing data sets or searching in
the appropriate way.

The client must protect itself against data sent by a malicious server. Specifically, the client
should guard against values that can cause arithmetic exceptions, like GOAL = 0, GOAL/VALUE <
0, GOAL/VALUE ≥ 232 (these are not possible within a correct implementation of the ABNF syntax
above), and VALUE > GOAL. In these cases, the notification

 be disregarded.

MUST

Bettini

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9585

IMAP Response Code for Command Progress

May 2024

7.  IANA Considerations

IANA has added "INPROGRESS" to the "IMAP Response Codes" registry located at
www.iana.org/assignments/imap-response-codes>

, with a reference to this document.

<https://

IANA had added "INPROGRESS" to the "IMAP Capabilities" registry located at
www.iana.org/assignments/imap-capabilities>

, with a reference to this document.

<https://

8.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC5234]

[RFC5530]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9051]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

,

, January 2008,

<https://

Gulbrandsen, A. "IMAP Response Codes" RFC 5530 DOI 10.17487/RFC5530
2009,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5530>

,

,

,

.

, May

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

 and

Melnikov, A., Ed.
Version 4rev2" RFC 9051 DOI 10.17487/RFC9051
,
editor.org/info/rfc9051>
.

,

,

B. Leiba, Ed. "Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) -

, August 2021,

<https://www.rfc-

Author's Address

Marco Bettini
Open-Xchange Oy
Lars Sonckin kaari 10
FI-
Finland
Email:

02600 Espoo

 marco.bettini@open-xchange.com

Bettini

Standards Track

Page 6

