Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9177
Standards Track
March 2022
2070-1721
M. Boucadair
Orange

J. Shallow

RFC 9177
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) Block-Wise
Transfer Options Supporting Robust Transmission

Abstract

This document speciﬁes alternative Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) block-wise transfer
options: Q-Block1 and Q-Block2.

These options are similar to, but distinct from, the CoAP Block1 and Block2 options deﬁned in RFC
7959. The Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options are not intended to replace the Block1 and Block2
options but rather have the goal of supporting Non-conﬁrmable (NON) messages for large
amounts of data with fewer packet interchanges. Also, the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options support
faster recovery should any of the blocks get lost in transmission.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9177
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Alternative CoAP Block-Wise Transfer Options

3.1.  CoAP Response Code (4.08) Usage

3.2.  Applicability Scope

4.  The Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options

4.1.  Properties of the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options

4.2.  Structure of the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options

4.3.  Using the Q-Block1 Option

4.4.  Using the Q-Block2 Option

4.5.  Using the Observe Option

4.6.  Using the Size1 and Size2 Options

4.7.  Using the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options Together

4.8.  Using the Q-Block2 Option with Multicast

5.  The Use of the 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) Response Code

6.  The Use of Tokens

7.  Congestion Control for Unreliable Transports

7.1.  Conﬁrmable (CON)

7.2.  Non-conﬁrmable (NON)

8.  Caching Considerations

9.  HTTP Mapping Considerations

10. Examples with Non-conﬁrmable Messages

10.1.  Q-Block1 Option

10.1.1.  A Simple Example

10.1.2.  Handling MAX_PAYLOADS Limits

10.1.3.  Handling MAX_PAYLOADS with Recovery

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

10.1.4.  Handling Recovery if Failure Occurs

10.2.  Q-Block2 Option

10.2.1.  A Simple Example

10.2.2.  Handling MAX_PAYLOADS Limits

10.2.3.  Handling MAX_PAYLOADS with Recovery

10.2.4.  Handling Recovery by Setting the M Bit

10.3.  Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options

10.3.1.  A Simple Example

10.3.2.  Handling MAX_PAYLOADS Limits

10.3.3.  Handling Recovery

11. Security Considerations

12. IANA Considerations

12.1.  CoAP Option Numbers Registry

12.2.  Media Type Registration

12.3.  CoAP Content-Formats Registry

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Examples with Conﬁrmable Messages

A.1.  Q-Block1 Option

A.2.  Q-Block2 Option

Appendix B.  Examples with Reliable Transports

B.1.  Q-Block1 Option

B.2.  Q-Block2 Option

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

1.  Introduction

The Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)
to use UDP instead of TCP. The message layer of CoAP over UDP includes support for reliable
delivery, simple congestion control, and ﬂow control. CoAP supports two message types (
1.2 of [RFC7252]
CON message will elicit an acknowledgment or a reset.

Section
): Conﬁrmable (CON) and Non-conﬁrmable (NON). Unlike NON messages, every

, although inspired by HTTP, was designed

[RFC7252]

The CoAP speciﬁcation recommends that a CoAP message should ﬁt within a single IP packet (i.e.,
avoid IP fragmentation). To handle data records that cannot ﬁt in a single IP packet,
introduced the concept of block-wise transfers and the companion CoAP Block1 and Block2
options. However, this concept is designed to work exclusively with Conﬁrmable messages
(
Section 1 of [RFC7959]
use over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets.

). Note that the block-wise transfer was further updated by

[RFC7959]

[RFC8323]

 for

The CoAP Block1 and Block2 options work well in environments where there are no, or minimal,
packet losses. These options operate synchronously, i.e., each individual block has to be requested.
A CoAP endpoint can only ask for (or send) the next block when the transfer of the previous block
has completed. The packet transmission rate, and hence the block transmission rate, is controlled
by Round-Trip Times (RTTs).

There is a requirement for blocks of data larger than a single IP datagram to be transmitted
under network conditions where there may be asymmetrical transient packet loss (e.g.,
acknowledgment responses may get dropped). An example is when a network is subject to a
Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack and there is a need for DDoS mitigation agents
relying upon CoAP to communicate with each other (e.g.,
reminder,
 recommends the use of CON responses to handle potential packet loss.
However, such a recommendation does not work with a "ﬂooded pipe" DDoS situation (e.g.,
[RFC9132]

[RFC9132] [DOTS-TELEMETRY]

[RFC7959]

).

). As a

This document introduces the CoAP Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options, which allow block-wise
transfers to work with a series of Non-conﬁrmable messages instead of lock-stepping using
Conﬁrmable messages (Section 3). In other words, this document provides a missing piece of
[RFC7959]
entire body of data can be transmitted without the requirement that intermediate
acknowledgments be received from the peer (but recovery is available should it be needed).

, namely the support of block-wise transfers using Non-conﬁrmable messages where an

Similar to
[RFC7959]
CoAP speciﬁcation

[RFC7252]

 it is strictly layered on top of.

, this speciﬁcation does not remove any of the constraints posed by the base

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

2.  Terminology

", "
The key words "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
"
", "
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

Readers should be familiar with the terms and concepts deﬁned in
[RFC8132]

. Particularly, the document uses the following key concepts:

,
[RFC7252] [RFC7959]

, and

Token:
(

Section 5.3.1 of [RFC7252]

).

used to match responses to requests independently from the underlying messages

ETag:

used as a resource-local identiﬁer for diﬀerentiating between representations of the same

resource that vary over time (

Section 5.10.6 of [RFC7252]

).

The terms "payload" and "body" are deﬁned in
. The term "payload" is thus used for the
content of a single CoAP message (i.e., a single block being transferred), while the term "body" is
used for the entire resource representation that is being transferred in a block-wise fashion.

[RFC7959]

Request-Tag refers to an option that allows a CoAP server to match message fragments belonging
to the same request

[RFC9175]

.

MAX_PAYLOADS is the maximum number of payloads that can be transmitted at any one time.

MAX_PAYLOADS_SET is the set of blocks identiﬁed by block numbers that, when divided by
MAX_PAYLOADS, have the same numeric result. For example, if MAX_PAYLOADS is set to 10, a
MAX_PAYLOADS_SET could be blocks #0 to #9, #10 to #19, etc. Depending on the overall data size,
there could be fewer than MAX_PAYLOADS blocks in the ﬁnal MAX_PAYLOADS_SET.

3.  Alternative CoAP Block-Wise Transfer Options

This document introduces the CoAP Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options. These options are designed to
work in particular with NON requests and responses.

Using NON messages, faster transmissions can occur, as all the blocks can be transmitted serially
(akin to fragmented IP packets) without having to wait for a response or next request from the
remote CoAP peer. Recovery of missing blocks is faster in that multiple missing blocks can be
requested in a single CoAP message. Even if there is asymmetrical packet loss, a body can still be
sent and received by the peer whether the body comprises a single payload or multiple payloads,
assuming no recovery is required.

A CoAP endpoint can acknowledge all or a subset of the blocks. Concretely, the receiving CoAP
endpoint either informs the sending CoAP endpoint of successful reception or reports on all
blocks in the body that have not yet been received. The sending CoAP endpoint will then
retransmit only the blocks that have been lost in transmission.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

Note that similar transmission rate beneﬁts can be applied to Conﬁrmable messages if the value
of NSTART is increased from 1 (
messages will not work eﬀectively if there is asymmetrical packet loss. Some examples with
Conﬁrmable messages are provided in Appendix A.

). However, the use of Conﬁrmable

Section 4.7 of [RFC7252]

There is little, if any, beneﬁt of using these options with CoAP running over a reliable connection
[RFC8323]
Some examples using a reliable transport are provided in Appendix B.

. In this case, there is no diﬀerentiation between CON and NON, as they are not used.

The Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options are similar in operation to the CoAP Block1 and Block2
options, respectively. They are not a replacement for them but have the following beneﬁts:

•

They can operate in environments where packet loss is highly asymmetrical.

•

They enable faster transmissions of sets of blocks of data with fewer packet interchanges.

•

They support faster recovery should any of the blocks get lost in transmission.

•

They support sending an entire body using NON messages without requiring that an
intermediate response be received from the peer.

The disadvantages of using the CoAP Block1 and Block2 options are as follows:

•

There is a loss of lock-stepping, so payloads are not always received in the correct order
(blocks in ascending order).

•

Additional congestion control measures need to be put in place for NON messages (Section
7.2).

•

To reduce the transmission times for CON transmissions of large bodies, NSTART needs to be
increased from 1, but this aﬀects congestion control and incurs a requirement to retune other
parameters (

). Such tuning is out of scope of this document.

Section 4.7 of [RFC7252]

•

Mixing of NON and CON during an exchange of requests/responses using Q-Block options is
not supported.

•

The Q-Block options do not support stateless operation/random access.

•

Proxying of Q-Block options is limited to caching full representations.

•

There is no multicast support.

The Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options can be used instead of the Block1 and Block2 options when
the diﬀerent transmission properties are required. If the new options are not supported by a peer,
then transmissions can fall back to using the Block1 and Block2 options (Section 4.1).

The deviations from the Block1 and Block2 options are speciﬁed in Section 4. Pointers to the
appropriate sections in

 are provided.

[RFC7959]

The speciﬁcation refers to the base CoAP methods deﬁned in
CoAP methods, FETCH, PATCH, and iPATCH, which are introduced in

Section 5.8 of [RFC7252]
[RFC8132]

.

 and the new

The No-Response option
Block2 responses. A uniﬁed solution is deﬁned in the document.

[RFC7967]

 was considered but was abandoned, as it does not apply to Q-

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

3.1.  CoAP Response Code (4.08) Usage

This document adds a media type for the 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response deﬁning an
additional message format for reporting on payloads using the Q-Block1 option that are not
received by the server.

See Section 5 for more details.

3.2.  Applicability Scope

The block-wise transfer speciﬁed in
messages but falls short in situations where packet loss is highly asymmetrical or there is no need
for an acknowledgment. In other words, there is a need for Non-conﬁrmable support.

 covers the general case using Conﬁrmable

[RFC7959]

The mechanism speciﬁed in this document provides roughly similar features to the Block1/Block2
options. It provides additional properties that are tailored towards the intended use case of Non-
conﬁrmable transmission. Concretely, this mechanism primarily targets applications, such as
DDoS Open Threat Signaling (DOTS), that cannot use CON requests/responses because of potential
packet loss and that support application-speciﬁc mechanisms to assess whether the remote peer
is not overloaded and thus is able to process the messages sent by a CoAP endpoint (e.g., DOTS
heartbeats in
). Other use cases are when an application sends data but
has no need for an acknowledgment of receipt and any data transmission loss is not critical.

Section 4.7 of [RFC9132]

The mechanism includes guards to prevent a CoAP agent from overloading the network by
adopting an aggressive sending rate. These guards
CoAP congestion control, as speciﬁed in

 be followed in addition to the existing
. See Section 7 for more details.

Section 4.7 of [RFC7252]

MUST

Any usage outside the primary use case of Non-conﬁrmable messages with block transfers should
be carefully weighed against the potential loss of interoperability with generic CoAP applications
(see the disadvantages listed in Section 3). It is hoped that the experience gained with this
mechanism can feed future extensions of the block-wise mechanism that will both be generally
applicable and serve this particular use case.

Section 9 of
), as the source endpoint needs to be trusted. Using Object Security for Constrained

It is not recommended that these options are used in the "NoSec" security mode (
[RFC7252]
RESTful Environments (OSCORE)
the source endpoint that prepared the inner OSCORE content. However, even with OSCORE, using
the NoSec mode with these options may still be inadequate, for reasons discussed in Section 11.

 does provide a security context and hence a trust of

[RFC8613]

4.  The Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options

4.1.  Properties of the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options

The properties of the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options are shown in Table 1. The formatting of this
table follows the one used in Table 4 of
. The C, U, N, and R columns
indicate the properties Critical, UnSafe, NoCacheKey, and Repeatable, which are deﬁned in

Section 5.10 of [RFC7252]

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

Section 5.4 of [RFC7252]
option. The Critical, UnSafe, and Repeatable columns are marked for the Q-Block2 option. As
these options are UnSafe, NoCacheKey has no meaning and so is marked with a dash.

. Only the Critical and UnSafe columns are marked for the Q-Block1

No.

19

31

C

x

x

U N R Name

Format

Length Default

x

x

-

-

Q-Block1

uint

x

Q-Block2

uint

0-3

0-3

(none)

(none)

Table 1: CoAP Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Option Properties

The Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options can be present in both the request and response messages.
The Q-Block1 option pertains to the request payload, and the Q-Block2 option pertains to the
response payload. When the Content-Format option is present together with the Q-Block1 or Q-
Block2 option, the option applies to the body, not to the payload (i.e., it must be the same for all
payloads of the same body).

The Q-Block1 option is useful with the payload-bearing (e.g., POST, PUT, FETCH, PATCH, and
iPATCH) requests and their responses.

The Q-Block2 option is useful, for example, with GET, POST, PUT, FETCH, PATCH, and iPATCH
requests and their payload-bearing responses (response codes 2.01, 2.02, 2.04, and 2.05) (
of [RFC7252]

).

Section 5.5

A CoAP endpoint (or proxy)
options.

MUST

 support either both or neither of the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2

If the Q-Block1 option is present in a request or the Q-Block2 option is returned in a response, this
indicates a block-wise transfer and describes how this speciﬁc block-wise payload forms part of
the entire body being transferred. If it is present in the opposite direction, it provides additional
control on how that payload will be formed or was processed.

To indicate support for Q-Block2 responses, the CoAP client
 include the Q-Block2 option in a
GET or similar request (e.g., FETCH), the Q-Block2 option in a PUT or similar request (e.g., POST), or
the Q-Block1 option in a PUT or similar request so that the server knows that the client supports
this Q-Block functionality should it need to send back a body that spans multiple payloads.
Otherwise, the server would use the Block2 option (if supported) to send back a message body that
.
is too large to ﬁt into a single IP packet

[RFC7959]

MUST

How a client decides whether it needs to include a Q-Block1 or Q-Block2 option can be driven by a
local conﬁguration parameter, triggered by an application (e.g., DOTS), etc. Such considerations
are out of the scope of this document.

Implementation of the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options is intended to be optional. However, when
a Q-Block1 or Q-Block2 option is present in a CoAP message, it
 be processed (or the message
rejected). Therefore, the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options are identiﬁed as critical options.

MUST

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

Section 5.4.1 of [RFC7252]

With CoAP over UDP, the way a request message is rejected for critical options depends on the
message type. A Conﬁrmable message with an unrecognized critical option is rejected with a 4.02
(Bad Option) response (
unrecognized critical option is either rejected with a Reset message or just silently ignored
(Sections 5.4.1 and 4.3 of
that clients use a Conﬁrmable message for determining support for the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2
options. This Conﬁrmable message can be sent under the base CoAP congestion control setup
speciﬁed in

 (that is, NSTART does not need to be increased (Section 7.1)).

). To reliably get a rejection message, it is therefore

). A Non-conﬁrmable message with an

Section 4.7 of [RFC7252]

[RFC7252]

REQUIRED

The Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options are unsafe to forward. That is, a CoAP proxy that does not
understand the Q-Block1 (or Q-Block2) option must reject the request or response that uses either
option (see

Section 5.7.1 of [RFC7252]

).

The Q-Block2 option is repeatable when requesting retransmission of missing blocks but not
otherwise. Except for that case, any request carrying multiple Q-Block1 (or Q-Block2) options
MUST

 be handled following the procedure speciﬁed in

Section 5.4.5 of [RFC7252]

.

Section 4.1 of [RFC8613]

The Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options, like the Block1 and Block2 options, are of both class E and
class U for OSCORE processing (Table 2). The Q-Block1 (or Q-Block2) option
 be an Inner or
Outer option (
each other. The Inner option is encrypted and integrity protected between clients and servers
and provides message body identiﬁcation in case of end-to-end fragmentation of requests. The
Outer option is visible to proxies and labels message bodies in case of hop-by-hop fragmentation
of requests.

). The Inner and Outer values are therefore independent of

MAY

Number

Name

19

31

Q-Block1

Q-Block2

E

x

x

U

x

x

Table 2: OSCORE Protection of the Q-
Block1 and Q-Block2 Options

MUST NOT

Note that, if the Q-Block1 or Q-Block2 options are included in a packet as Inner options, the
Block1 or Block2 options
MUST NOT
mix of Q-Block and Block options for the Outer options. Messages that do not adhere to this
behavior
across Inner and Outer options, as these are handled independently of each other. For clarity, if
OSCORE is not being used, there
packet.

 be rejected with a 4.02 (Bad Option). The Q-Block and Block options can be mixed

 be a mix of Q-Block and Block options in the same

 be included as Inner options. Similarly, there

MUST NOT

MUST

 be a

4.2.  Structure of the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options

The structure of the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options follows the structure deﬁned in
[RFC7959]

.

Section 2.2 of

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

There is no default value for the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options. The absence of one of these
options is equivalent to an option value of 0 with respect to the value of block number (NUM) and
more bit (M) that could be given in the option, i.e., it indicates that the current block is the ﬁrst
and only block of the transfer (block number is set to 0; M is unset). However, in contrast to the
explicit value 0, which would indicate a size of the block (SZX) of 0, and thus a size value of 16
bytes, there is no speciﬁc size implied by the absence of the option -- the size is left unspeciﬁed. (As
for any uint, the explicit value 0 is eﬃciently indicated by a zero-length option; therefore, this is
semantically diﬀerent from the absence of the option.)

4.3.  Using the Q-Block1 Option

The Q-Block1 option is used when the client wants to send a large amount of data to the server
using the POST, PUT, FETCH, PATCH, or iPATCH methods where the data and headers do not ﬁt into
a single packet.

When the Q-Block1 option is used, the client
Request-Tag value
MUST
transferred. The Request-Tag is opaque, but the client
diﬀerent body of transmitted data.

MUST

 be the same for all of the requests for the body of data that is being
 ensure that it is unique for every

MUST

 include a Request-Tag option

[RFC9175]

. The

Implementation Note: It is suggested that the client treats the Request-Tag as an unsigned
integer of 8 bytes in length. An implementation may want to consider limiting this to 4 bytes to
reduce packet overhead size. The initial Request-Tag value should be randomly generated and
then subsequently incremented by the client whenever a new body of data is being
transmitted between peers.

Section 4.6 discusses the use of the Size1 option.

For Conﬁrmable transmission, the server continues to acknowledge each packet, but a response
is not required (whether separate or piggybacked) until successful receipt of the body by the
server. For Non-conﬁrmable transmission, no response is required until either the successful
receipt of the body by the server or a timer expires with some of the payloads having not yet
arrived. In the latter case, a "retransmit missing payloads" response is needed. For reliable
transports (e.g.,
server.

), a response is not required until successful receipt of the body by the

[RFC8323]

Each individual message that carries a block of the body is treated as a new request (Section 6).

MUST

 send the payloads in order of increasing block number, starting from zero, until

The client
the body is complete (subject to any congestion control (Section 7)). In addition, any missing
payloads requested by the server must be separately transmitted with increasing block numbers.

The following response codes are used:

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

2.01 (Created)

MUST

This response code indicates successful receipt of the entire body and that the resource was
created. The token to use
 be one of the tokens that were received in a request for this
block-wise exchange. However, it is desirable to provide the one used in the last received
request, since that will aid any troubleshooting. The client should then release all of the tokens
used for this body. Note that the last received payload might not be the one with the highest
block number.

2.02 (Deleted)

This response code indicates successful receipt of the entire body and that the resource was
deleted when using POST (
tokens that were received in a request for this block-wise exchange. However, it is desirable to
provide the one used in the last received request. The client should then release all of the
tokens used for this body.

Section 5.8.2 of [RFC7252]

). The token to use

 be one of the

MUST

2.04 (Changed)

This response code indicates successful receipt of the entire body and that the resource was
updated. The token to use
 be one of the tokens that were received in a request for this
block-wise exchange. However, it is desirable to provide the one used in the last received
request. The client should then release all of the tokens used for this body.

MUST

2.05 (Content)

This response code indicates successful receipt of the entire FETCH request body (
[RFC8132]
token to use
exchange. However, it is desirable to provide the one used in the last received request.

) and that the appropriate representation of the resource is being returned. The
 be one of the tokens that were received in a request for this block-wise

MUST

Section 2 of

 use the same token as
If the FETCH request includes the Observe option, then the server
used for the 2.05 (Content) response for returning any triggered Observe responses so that the
client can match them up.

MUST

The client should then release all of the tokens used for this body apart from the one used for
tracking an observed resource.

2.31 (Continue)

This response code can be used to indicate that all of the blocks up to and including the Q-
Block1 option block NUM (all having the M bit set) have been successfully received. The token
to use
MAX_PAYLOADS_SET block-wise exchange. However, it is desirable to provide the one used in
the last received request.

 be one of the tokens that were received in a request for this latest

MUST

The client should then release all of the tokens used for this MAX_PAYLOADS_SET.

A response using this response code
option request. It
conﬁrmable and a MAX_PAYLOADS_SET has been received by the server. More details about
the motivations for this optimization are discussed in Section 7.2.

 only be generated when all the payload requests are Non-

 be generated for every received Q-Block1

MUST NOT

SHOULD

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

This response code
to unnecessarily be sent.

SHOULD NOT

4.00 (Bad Request)

 be generated for CON, as this may cause duplicated payloads

This response code
Size1 option but does include a Q-Block1 option.

MUST

 be returned if the request does not include a Request-Tag option or a

4.02 (Bad Option)

This response code
the Q-Block options. Note that a Reset message may be sent in case of a Non-conﬁrmable
request.

 be returned for a Conﬁrmable request if the server does not support

MUST

4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete)

As a reminder, this response code returned without content type "application/missing-
blocks+cbor-seq" (Section 12.3) is handled as in

Section 2.9.2 of [RFC7959]

.

This response code returned with content type "application/missing-blocks+cbor-seq"
indicates that some of the payloads are missing and need to be resent. The client then
retransmits the individual missing payloads using the same Request-Tag, Size1, and Q-Block1
options to specify the same NUM, SZX, and M bit values as those sent initially in the original
(but not received) packets.

The Request-Tag value to use is determined by taking the token in the 4.08 (Request Entity
Incomplete) response, locating the matching client request, and then using its Request-Tag.

The token to use in the 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response
 be one of the tokens
that were received in a request for this block-wise body exchange. However, it is desirable to
provide the one used in the last received request. See Section 5 for further information.

MUST

If the server has not received all the blocks of a body, but one or more NON payloads have
been received, it
(Request Entity Incomplete) response.

 wait for NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (Section 7.2) before sending a 4.08

SHOULD

4.13 (Request Entity Too Large)

This response code can be returned under conditions similar to those discussed in
of [RFC7959]

.

Section 2.9.3

This response code can be returned if there is insuﬃcient space to create a response PDU with
a block size of 16 bytes (SZX = 0) to send back all the response options as appropriate. In this
case, the Size1 option is not included in the response.

Further considerations related to the transmission timings of the 4.08 (Request Entity
Incomplete) and 2.31 (Continue) response codes are discussed in Section 7.2.

If a server receives payloads with diﬀerent Request-Tags for the same resource, it should continue
to process all the bodies, as it has no way of determining which is the latest version or which body,
if any, the client is terminating the transmission for.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

MUST

If the client elects to stop the transmission of a complete body, then absent any local policy, the
client
message is generated for the invalid token in the 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response. On
receipt of the Reset message, the server

 "forget" all tracked tokens associated with the body's Request-Tag so that a Reset

 delete the partial body.

SHOULD

If the server receives a duplicate block with the same Request-Tag, it
the packet but

 still respond as if the block was received for the ﬁrst time.

MUST

MUST

 ignore the payload of

A server
(Section 7.2).

SHOULD

 maintain a partial body (missing payloads) for NON_PARTIAL_TIMEOUT

4.4.  Using the Q-Block2 Option

In a request for any block number, an unset M bit indicates the request is just for that block. If the
M bit is set, this has diﬀerent meanings based on the NUM value:

NUM is zero:

This is a request for the entire body.

'NUM modulo MAX_PAYLOADS' is zero, while NUM is not zero:

This is used to conﬁrm that the

current MAX_PAYLOADS_SET (the latest block having block number NUM-1) has been
successfully received and that, upon receipt of this request, the server can continue to send the
next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET (the ﬁrst block having block number NUM). This is the 'Continue' Q-
Block-2 and conceptually has the same usage (i.e., continue sending the next set of data) as the
use of 2.31 (Continue) for Q-Block1.

Any other value of NUM:

This is a request for that block and for all of the remaining blocks in

the current MAX_PAYLOADS_SET.

If the request includes multiple Q-Block2 options and these options overlap (e.g., combination of
M being set (this and later blocks) and unset (this individual block)), resulting in an individual
block being requested multiple times, the server
This behavior is meant to prevent ampliﬁcation attacks.

 only send back one instance of that block.

MUST

The payloads sent back from the server as a response
of [RFC7252]
MUST NOT
representations of a resource.

) for the same body. The server

 all have the same ETag (
MUST
 use the same ETag value for diﬀerent

Section 5.10.6

The ETag is opaque, but the server
transmitted data.

MUST

 ensure that it is unique for every diﬀerent body of

Implementation Note: It is suggested that the server treats the ETag as an unsigned integer of 8
bytes in length. An implementation may want to consider limiting this to 4 bytes to reduce
packet overhead size. The initial ETag value should be randomly generated and then
subsequently incremented by the server whenever a new body of data is being transmitted
between peers.

Section 4.6 discusses the use of the Size2 option.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

The client may elect to request any detected missing blocks or just ignore the partial body. This
decision is implementation speciﬁc.

SHOULD

 wait for NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (Section 7.2) after the last

For NON payloads, the client
received payload before requesting retransmission of any missing blocks. Retransmission is
requested by issuing a GET, POST, PUT, FETCH, PATCH, or iPATCH request that contains one or
more Q-Block2 options that deﬁne the missing block(s). Generally, the M bit on the Q-Block2
option(s)
MAX_PAYLOADS_SET; see Section 10.2.4 for an example of this in operation. Further
considerations related to the transmission timing for missing requests are discussed in Section
7.2.

 be set to request this and later blocks from this

 be unset, although the M bit

SHOULD

MAY

The missing block numbers requested by the client
each additional Q-Block2 option with no duplicates. The server
 respond with a 4.00 (Bad
Request) to requests not adhering to this behavior. Note that the ordering constraint is meant to
force the client to check for duplicates and remove them. This also helps with troubleshooting.

 have an increasing block number in

SHOULD

MUST

If the client receives a duplicate block with the same ETag, it

MUST

 silently ignore the payload.

SHOULD

 maintain a partial body (missing payloads) for NON_PARTIAL_TIMEOUT

A client
(Section 7.2) or as deﬁned by the Max-Age option (or its default of 60 seconds (
[RFC7252]
the tokens used for this body apart from the token that is used to track a resource that is being
observed.

)), whichever is less. On release of the partial body, the client should then release all of

Section 5.6.1 of

The ETag option should not be used in the request for missing blocks, as the server could respond
with a 2.03 (Valid) response with no payload. It can be used in the request if the client wants to
check the freshness of the locally cached body response.

The server
facilitate retransmission of any missing payloads.

SHOULD

 maintain a cached copy of the body when using the Q-Block2 option to

If the server detects partway through a body transfer that the resource data has changed and the
server is not maintaining a cached copy of the old data, then the transmission is terminated. Any
subsequent missing block requests
values with the updated data.

 be responded to using the latest ETag and Size2 option

MUST

If the server responds during a body update with a diﬀerent ETag option value (as the resource
representation has changed), then the client should treat the partial body with the old ETag as no
longer being fresh. The client may then request all of the new data by specifying Q-Block2 with
block number '0' and the M bit set.

If the server transmits a new body of data (e.g., a triggered Observe notiﬁcation) with a new ETag
to the same client as an additional response, the client should remove any partially received body
held for a previous ETag for that resource, as it is unlikely the missing blocks can be retrieved.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

If there is insuﬃcient space to create a response PDU with a block size of 16 bytes (SZX = 0) to send
back all the response options as appropriate, a 4.13 (Request Entity Too Large) is returned without
the Size1 option.

For Conﬁrmable traﬃc, the server typically acknowledges the initial request using an
Acknowledgment (ACK) with a piggybacked payload and then sends the subsequent payloads of
the MAX_PAYLOADS_SET as CON responses. These CON responses are individually ACKed by the
client. The server will detect failure to send a packet and
the client can issue, after a MAX_TRANSMIT_SPAN delay, a separate GET, POST, PUT, FETCH,
PATCH, or iPATCH for any missing blocks as needed.

 terminate the body transfer, but

SHOULD

4.5.  Using the Observe Option

For a request that uses Q-Block1, the Observe value
payloads of the same body. This includes any missing payloads that are retransmitted.

[RFC7641] MUST

 be the same for all the

 be the same for all the payloads of the
For a response that uses Q-Block2, the Observe value
same body. This is diﬀerent from Block2 usage where the Observe value is only present in the ﬁrst
block (
'Continue' Q-Block2 option (Section 4.4) by the server. If a missing payload is requested by a client,
then both the request and response

). This includes payloads transmitted following receipt of the

 include the Observe option.

Section 3.4 of [RFC7959]

MUST NOT

MUST

4.6.  Using the Size1 and Size2 Options

Section 4 of [RFC7959]
representation transferred in requests and Size2 for indicating the size of the representation
transferred in responses.

 deﬁnes two CoAP options: Size1 for indicating the size of the

For the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options, the Size1 or Size2 option values
the size of the data on the body so that any missing data can easily be determined.

MUST

 exactly represent

MUST

 be used with the Q-Block1 option when used in a request and

The Size1 option
present in all payloads of the request, preserving the same value. The Size2 option
with the Q-Block2 option when used in a response and
response, preserving the same value.

MUST

 be present in all payloads of the

MUST

 be
 be used

MUST

4.7.  Using the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options Together

The behavior is similar to the one deﬁned in
Block1 and Q-Block2 substituted for Block2.

Section 3.3 of [RFC7959]

 with Q-Block1 substituted for

4.8.  Using the Q-Block2 Option with Multicast

MUST

Servers
Block2 option can be used as stated in

Section 2.8 of [RFC7959]

.

 ignore multicast requests that contain the Q-Block2 option. As a reminder, the

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

5.  The Use of the 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) Response
Code

The 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response code has a new content type "application/missing-
blocks+cbor-seq" used to indicate that the server has not received all of the blocks of the request
body that it needs to proceed. Such messages must not be treated by the client as a fatal error.

Likely causes are the client has not sent all blocks, some blocks were dropped during
transmission, or the client sent them a long enough time ago that the server has already
discarded them.

The new data payload of the 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response with content type
"application/missing-blocks+cbor-seq" is encoded as a Concise Binary Object Representation
(CBOR) Sequence
unsigned integers
Entity Incomplete) response when created by the server; the client
the same 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response.

. It comprises one or more missing block numbers encoded as CBOR
. The missing block numbers

 be unique in each 4.08 (Request

[RFC8742]
[RFC8949]

 ignore any duplicates in

MUST

MUST

The Content-Format option (
Incomplete) response. It

MUST

Section 5.10.3 of [RFC7252] MUST

)

 be used in the 4.08 (Request Entity

 be set to "application/missing-blocks+cbor-seq" (Section 12.3).

The Concise Data Deﬁnition Language (CDDL)
data describing these missing blocks is as follows:

[RFC8610]

 (and see

Section 4.1 of [RFC8742]

) for the

; This defines an array, the elements of which are to be used
; in a CBOR Sequence:
payload = [+ missing-block-number]
; A unique block number not received:
missing-block-number = uint

Figure 1: Structure of the Missing Blocks Payload

This CDDL syntax

MUST

 be followed.

It is desirable that the token to use for the response is the token that was used in the last block
number received so far with the same Request-Tag value. Note that the use of any received token
with the same Request-Tag would be acceptable, but providing the one used in the last received
payload will aid any troubleshooting. The client will use the token to determine what was the
previously sent request to obtain the Request-Tag value that was used.

If the size of the 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response packet is larger than that deﬁned by
 be limited so that the
Section 4.6 of [RFC7252]
response can ﬁt into a single packet. If this is the case, then the server can send subsequent 4.08
(Request Entity Incomplete) responses containing those additional missing blocks on receipt of a
new request providing a missing payload with the same Request-Tag.

, then the number of reported missing blocks

MUST

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

The missing blocks
SHOULD

MUST

 be reported in ascending order without any duplicates. The client

 silently drop 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) responses not adhering to this behavior.

Implementation Note: Consider limiting the number of missing payloads to MAX_PAYLOADS
to minimize the need for congestion control. The CBOR Sequence does not include any array
wrapper.

SHOULD NOT

A 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response with content type "application/missing-blocks+cbor-
, as
seq"
the client will be able to determine that there is a transmission failure of a particular payload and
hence that the server is missing that payload.

 be used when using Conﬁrmable requests or a reliable connection

[RFC8323]

6.  The Use of Tokens

Each new request generally uses a new Token (and sometimes must; see
Additional responses to a request all use the token of the request they respond to.

Section 4 of [RFC9175]

).

Implementation Note: By using 8-byte tokens, it is possible to easily minimize the number of
tokens that have to be tracked by clients, by keeping the bottom 32 bits the same for the same
body and the upper 32 bits containing the current body's request number (incrementing every
request, including every retransmit). This alleviates the client's need to keep all the per-request
state, e.g., per
 needs to
be considered for security implications.

. However, if using NoSec,

Section 5.2 of [RFC8974]

Section 3 of [RFC8974]

7.  Congestion Control for Unreliable Transports

The transmission of all the blocks of a single body over an unreliable transport
Conﬁrmable or all be Non-conﬁrmable. This is meant to simplify the congestion control
procedure.

MUST

 either all be

As a reminder, there is no need for CoAP-speciﬁc congestion control for reliable transports
[RFC8323]

.

7.1.  Conﬁrmable (CON)

Section 4.7 of [RFC7252]
Congestion control for CON requests and responses is speciﬁed in
order to beneﬁt from faster transmission rates, NSTART will need to be increased from 1.
However, the other CON congestion control parameters will need to be tuned to cover this
change. This tuning is not speciﬁed in this document, given that the applicability scope of the
current speciﬁcation assumes that all requests and responses using Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 will be
Non-conﬁrmable (Section 3.2) apart from the initial Q-Block functionality negotiation.

. In

Following the failure to transmit a packet due to packet loss after MAX_TRANSMIT_SPAN time
Section 4.8.2 of [RFC7252]
(
requests for missing data.

), it is implementation speciﬁc as to whether there should be any further

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

7.2.  Non-conﬁrmable (NON)

This document introduces the new parameters MAX_PAYLOADS, NON_TIMEOUT,
NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM, NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT, NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT,
NON_PROBING_WAIT, and NON_PARTIAL_TIMEOUT primarily for use with NON (Table 3).

Note: Randomness may naturally be provided based on the traﬃc proﬁle, how
PROBING_RATE is computed (as this is an average), and when the peer responds. Randomness
is explicitly added for some of the congestion control parameters to handle situations where
everything is in sync when retrying.

MAX_PAYLOADS should be conﬁgurable with a default value of 10. Both CoAP endpoints
have the same value (otherwise, there will be transmission delays in one direction), and the value
 be negotiated between the endpoints to a common value by using a higher-level protocol
MAY
(out of scope of this document). This is the maximum number of payloads that can be transmitted
at any one time.

MUST

Note: The default value of 10 is chosen for reasons similar to those discussed in
[RFC6928]

, especially given the target application discussed in Section 3.2.

Section 5 of

NON_TIMEOUT is used to compute the delay between sending MAX_PAYLOADS_SET for the same
).
body. By default, NON_TIMEOUT has the same value as ACK_TIMEOUT (

Section 4.8 of [RFC7252]

NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM is the initial actual delay between sending the ﬁrst two
MAX_PAYLOADS_SETs of the same body. The same delay is then used between the subsequent
MAX_PAYLOADS_SETs. It is a random duration (not an integral number of seconds) between
NON_TIMEOUT and (NON_TIMEOUT * ACK_RANDOM_FACTOR). ACK_RANDOM_FACTOR is set to
1.5, as discussed in

Section 4.8 of [RFC7252]

.

NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT is the initial time to wait for a missing payload before requesting
retransmission for the ﬁrst time. Every time the missing payload is re-requested, the Time-to-Wait
value doubles. The time to wait is calculated as:

Time-to-Wait = NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT * (2 ** (Re-Request-Count - 1))

NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT has a default value of twice NON_TIMEOUT. NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT
 always be greater than NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM by at least one second so that the sender
MUST
of the payloads has the opportunity to start sending the next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET before the
receiver times out.

NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT is the maximum number of times a request for the retransmission of
missing payloads can occur without a response from the remote peer. After this occurs, the local
 consider the body stale, remove any body, and release the tokens and Request-
endpoint
Tag on the client (or the ETag on the server). By default, NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT has the same
value as MAX_RETRANSMIT (

Section 4.8 of [RFC7252]

SHOULD

).

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

NON_PROBING_WAIT is used to limit the potential wait needed when using PROBING_RATE. By
default, NON_PROBING_WAIT is computed in a way similar to EXCHANGE_LIFETIME (
4.8.2 of [RFC7252]
substituted with NON_TIMEOUT, NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT, and NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM,
respectively:

) but with ACK_TIMEOUT, MAX_RETRANSMIT, and PROCESSING_DELAY

Section

NON_PROBING_WAIT = NON_TIMEOUT * ((2 ** NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT) - 1) *
ACK_RANDOM_FACTOR + (2 * MAX_LATENCY) + NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM

NON_PARTIAL_TIMEOUT is used for expiring partially received bodies. By default,
NON_PARTIAL_TIMEOUT is computed in the same way as EXCHANGE_LIFETIME (
[RFC7252]
NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT, respectively:

Section 4.8.2 of
) but with ACK_TIMEOUT and MAX_RETRANSMIT substituted with NON_TIMEOUT and

NON_PARTIAL_TIMEOUT = NON_TIMEOUT * ((2 ** NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT) - 1) *
ACK_RANDOM_FACTOR + (2 * MAX_LATENCY) + NON_TIMEOUT

Parameter Name

Default Value

MAX_PAYLOADS

10

NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT

4

NON_TIMEOUT

2 s

NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM between 2-3 s

NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT

4 s

NON_PROBING_WAIT

between 247-248 s

NON_PARTIAL_TIMEOUT

247 s

Table 3: Congestion Control Parameters

The PROBING_RATE parameter in CoAP indicates the average data rate that must not be exceeded
by a CoAP endpoint in sending to a peer endpoint that does not respond. A single body will be
subjected to PROBING_RATE (
between sending bodies that are not being responded to based on PROBING_RATE exceeds
NON_PROBING_WAIT, then the wait time is limited to NON_PROBING_WAIT.

), not the individual packets. If the wait time

Section 4.7 of [RFC7252]

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

Note: For the particular DOTS application, PROBING_RATE and other transmission
parameters are negotiated between peers. Even when not negotiated, the DOTS
application uses customized defaults, as discussed in
Section 4.5.2 of [RFC9132]
that MAX_PAYLOADS, NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT, NON_TIMEOUT,
NON_PROBING_WAIT, and NON_PARTIAL_TIMEOUT can be negotiated between
DOTS peers, e.g., as per
for NON_PROBING_WAIT and NON_PARTIAL_TIMEOUT, these values are used
without applying any jitter.

. When explicit values are conﬁgured

[DOTS-QUICK-BLOCKS]

. Note

Each NON 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response is subject to PROBING_RATE.

Each NON GET or FETCH request using a Q-Block2 option is subject to PROBING_RATE.

As the sending of many payloads of a single body may itself cause congestion, after transmission
of every MAX_PAYLOADS_SET of a single body, a delay of NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM
introduced before sending the next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET, unless a 'Continue' is received from the
peer for the current MAX_PAYLOADS_SET, in which case the next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET
 start
transmission immediately.

MUST

MAY

 be

Note: Assuming 1500-byte packets and the MAX_PAYLOADS_SET having 10 payloads, this
corresponds to 1500 * 10 * 8 = 120 kbits. With a delay of 2 seconds between
MAX_PAYLOADS_SET, this indicates an average speed requirement of 60 kbps for a single body
should there be no responses. This transmission rate is further reduced by being subject to
PROBING_RATE.

The sending of a set of missing blocks of a body is restricted to those in a MAX_PAYLOADS_SET at
a time. In other words, a NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM delay is still observed between each
MAX_PAYLOADS_SET.

For the Q-Block1 option, if the server responds with a 2.31 (Continue) response code for the latest
payload sent, then the client can continue to send the next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET without any
further delay. If the server responds with a 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response code, then
the missing payloads
 be retransmitted before going into another
NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM delay prior to sending the next set of payloads.

SHOULD

SHOULD

For the server receiving NON Q-Block1 requests, it
 send back a 2.31 (Continue) response
code on receipt of all of the MAX_PAYLOADS_SET to prevent the client unnecessarily delaying the
transfer of remaining blocks. If not all of the MAX_PAYLOADS_SET were received, the server
 delay for NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (exponentially scaled based on the repeat request
SHOULD
count for a payload) before sending the 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response code for the
missing payload(s). If all of the MAX_PAYLOADS_SET were received and a 2.31 (Continue) response
code had been sent, but no more payloads were received for NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT
(exponentially scaled), the server
detailing the missing payloads after the block number that was indicated in the sent 2.31
(Continue) response code. If the repeat response count of the 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete)
exceeds NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT, the server
the missing payloads.

 send a 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response

 discard the partial body and stop requesting

SHOULD

SHOULD

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

It is likely that the client will start transmitting the next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET before the server
times out on waiting for the last block of the previous MAX_PAYLOADS_SET. On receipt of a
payload from the next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET, the server
 send a 4.08 (Request Entity
Incomplete) response code indicating any missing payloads from any previous
MAX_PAYLOADS_SET. Upon receipt of the 4.08 (Request Entity Incomplete) response code, the
client
MAX_PAYLOADS_SET and then go into another NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM delay prior to sending
the next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET.

 send the missing payloads before continuing to send the remainder of the

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

For the client receiving NON Q-Block2 responses, it
(Section 4.4) for the next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET on receipt of all of the MAX_PAYLOADS_SET to
prevent the server unnecessarily delaying the transfer of remaining blocks. Otherwise, the client
SHOULD
count for a payload) before sending the request for the missing payload(s). If the repeat request
count for a missing payload exceeds NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT, the client
partial body and stop requesting the missing payloads.

 delay for NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (exponentially scaled based on the repeat request

 send a 'Continue' Q-Block2 request

 discard the

SHOULD

SHOULD

The server
just continue the transmission of the body (including the Observe option, if appropriate for an
unsolicited response) rather than treat 'Continue' as a request for the remaining missing blocks.

 recognize the 'Continue' Q-Block2 request per the deﬁnition in Section 4.4 and

It is likely that the server will start transmitting the next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET before the client
times out on waiting for the last block of the previous MAX_PAYLOADS_SET. Upon receipt of a
 send a request indicating any
payload from the new MAX_PAYLOADS_SET, the client
missing payloads from any previous MAX_PAYLOADS_SET. Upon receipt of such a request, the
server
MAX_PAYLOADS_SET and then go into another NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM delay prior to sending
the next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET.

 send the missing payloads before continuing to send the remainder of the

SHOULD

SHOULD

The client does not need to acknowledge the receipt of the entire body.

Note: If there is asymmetric traﬃc loss causing responses to never get received, a delay of
NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM after every transmission of MAX_PAYLOADS_SET will be observed.
The endpoint receiving the body is still likely to receive the entire body.

8.  Caching Considerations

Caching block-based information is not straightforward in a proxy. For the Q-Block1 and Q-
Block2 options, for simplicity, it is expected that the proxy will reassemble the body (using any
appropriate recovery options for packet loss) before passing the body onward to the appropriate
CoAP endpoint. This does not preclude an implementation doing a more complex per-payload
caching, but how to do this is out of the scope of this document. The onward transmission of the
body does not require the use of the Q-Block1 or Q-Block2 options, as these options may not be
supported in that link. This means that the proxy must fully support the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2
options.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

How the body is cached in the CoAP client (for Q-Block1 transmissions) or the CoAP server (for Q-
Block2 transmissions) is implementation speciﬁc.

As the entire body is being cached in the proxy, the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options are removed as
part of the block assembly and thus do not reach the cache.

For Q-Block2 responses, the ETag option value is associated with the data (and transmitted
onward to the CoAP client) but is not part of the cache key.

For requests with the Q-Block1 option, the Request-Tag option is associated with building the body
from successive payloads but is not part of the cache key. For the onward transmission of the
body using CoAP, a new Request-Tag
should replace the Request-Tag used by the client.

 be generated and used. Ideally, this new Request-Tag

SHOULD

It is possible that two or more CoAP clients are concurrently updating the same resource through
a common proxy to the same CoAP server using the Q-Block1 (or Block1) option. If this is the case,
the ﬁrst client to complete building the body causes that body to start transmitting to the CoAP
server with an appropriate Request-Tag value. When the next client completes building the body,
any existing partial body transmission to the CoAP server is terminated, and the transmission of
the new body representation starts with a new Request-Tag value. Note that it cannot be assumed
that the proxy will always receive a complete body from a client.

A proxy that supports the Q-Block2 option
indicating one or more missing blocks. From its cache, the proxy will serve the missing blocks
that are available in its cache in the same way a server would send all the appropriate Q-Block2
responses. If a body matching the cache key is not available in the cache, the proxy
the entire body from the CoAP server using the information in the cache key.

 be prepared to receive a GET or similar request

MUST

MUST

 request

How long a CoAP endpoint (or proxy) keeps the body in its cache is implementation speciﬁc (e.g.,
it may be based on Max-Age).

9.  HTTP Mapping Considerations

As a reminder, the basic normative requirements on HTTP/CoAP mappings are deﬁned in
10 of [RFC7252]
[RFC8075]

. The implementation guidelines for HTTP/CoAP mappings are elaborated in

.

Section

The rules deﬁned in

Section 5 of [RFC7959]

 are to be followed.

10.  Examples with Non-conﬁrmable Messages

This section provides some sample ﬂows to illustrate the use of the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options
with NON. Examples with CON are provided in Appendix A.

The examples in the following subsections assume MAX_PAYLOADS is set to 10 and
NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT is set to 4.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

The list below contains the conventions that are used in the ﬁgures in the following subsections.

T:

O:

M:

RT:

ET:

Token value

Observe option value

Message ID

Request-Tag

ETag

QB1:

Q-Block1 option values NUM/More/Size

QB2:

Q-Block2 option values NUM/More/Size

Size:

Actual block size encoded in SZX

\:

Trimming long lines

[[]]:

Comments

-->X:

Message loss (request)

X<--:

Message loss (response)

...:

Passage of time

Payload N:

Corresponds to the CoAP message that conveys a block number (N-1) of a given

block-wise exchange.

10.1.  Q-Block1 Option

10.1.1.  A Simple Example

Figure 2 depicts an example of a NON PUT request conveying the Q-Block1 option. All the blocks
are received by the server.

 CoAP        CoAP
Client      Server
  |          |
  +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x81 T:0xc0 RT=9 QB1:0/1/1024
  +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x82 T:0xc1 RT=9 QB1:1/1/1024
  +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x83 T:0xc2 RT=9 QB1:2/1/1024
  +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x84 T:0xc3 RT=9 QB1:3/0/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.04 M:0xf1 T:0xc3
  |   ...    |

Figure 2: Example of a NON Request with the Q-Block1 option (without Loss)

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

10.1.2.  Handling MAX_PAYLOADS Limits

Figure 3 depicts an example of a NON PUT request conveying the Q-Block1 option. The number of
payloads exceeds MAX_PAYLOADS. All the blocks are received by the server.

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |          |
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x01 T:0xf1 RT=10 QB1:0/1/1024
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x02 T:0xf2 RT=10 QB1:1/1/1024
   +--------->| [[Payloads 3 - 9 not detailed]]
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x0a T:0xfa RT=10 QB1:9/1/1024
[[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET has been received]]
   |     [[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET receipt acknowledged by server]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.31 M:0x81 T:0xfa
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x0b T:0xfb RT=10 QB1:10/0/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.04 M:0x82 T:0xfb
   |   ...    |

Figure 3: Example of a MAX_PAYLOADS NON Request with the Q-Block1 Option (without Loss)

10.1.3.  Handling MAX_PAYLOADS with Recovery

Consider now a scenario where a new body of data is to be sent by the client, but some blocks are
dropped in transmission, as illustrated in Figure 4.

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |          |
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x11 T:0xe1 RT=11 QB1:0/1/1024
   +--->X     | NON PUT /path M:0x12 T:0xe2 RT=11 QB1:1/1/1024
   +--------->| [[Payloads 3 - 8 not detailed]]
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x19 T:0xe9 RT=11 QB1:8/1/1024
   +--->X     | NON PUT /path M:0x1a T:0xea RT=11 QB1:9/1/1024
   [[Some of the MAX_PAYLOADS_SET has been received]]
   |   ...    |
[[NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM (client) delay expires]]
   |     [[Client starts sending next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET]]
   +--->X     | NON PUT /path M:0x1b T:0xeb RT=11 QB1:10/1/1024
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x1c T:0xec RT=11 QB1:11/1/1024
   |          |

Figure 4: Example of a MAX_PAYLOADS NON Request with the Q-Block1 Option (with Loss)

On seeing a payload from the next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET, the server realizes that some blocks are
missing from the previous MAX_PAYLOADS_SET and asks for the missing blocks in one go (Figure
5). It does so by indicating which blocks from the previous MAX_PAYLOADS_SET have not been
received in the data portion of the response (Section 5). The token used in the response should be
the token that was used in the last received payload. The client can then derive the Request-Tag by
matching the token with the sent request.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |          |
   |<---------+ NON 4.08 M:0x91 T:0xec [Missing 1,9]
   |     [[Client responds with missing payloads]]
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x1d T:0xed RT=11 QB1:1/1/1024
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x1e T:0xee RT=11 QB1:9/1/1024
   |     [[Client continues sending next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET]]
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x1f T:0xef RT=11 QB1:12/0/1024
   |   ...    |
[[NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (server) delay expires]]
   |     [[The server realizes a block is still missing and asks
   |        for the missing one]]
   |<---------+ NON 4.08 M:0x92 T:0xef [Missing 10]
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x20 T:0xf0 RT=11 QB1:10/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.04 M:0x93 T:0xf0
   |   ...    |

Figure 5: Example of a NON Request with the Q-Block1 Option (Block Recovery)

10.1.4.  Handling Recovery if Failure Occurs

Figure 6 depicts an example of a NON PUT request conveying the Q-Block1 option where recovery
takes place but eventually fails.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |          |
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x91 T:0xd0 RT=12 QB1:0/1/1024
   +--->X     | NON PUT /path M:0x92 T:0xd1 RT=12 QB1:1/1/1024
   +--------->| NON PUT /path M:0x93 T:0xd2 RT=12 QB1:2/0/1024
   |   ...    |
[[NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (server) delay expires]]
   |     [[The server realizes a block is missing and asks
   |        for the missing one.  Retry #1]]
   |<---------+ NON 4.08 M:0x01 T:0xd2 [Missing 1]
   |   ...    |
[[2 * NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (server) delay expires]]
   |     [[The server realizes a block is still missing and asks
   |        for the missing one.  Retry #2]]
   |<---------+ NON 4.08 M:0x02 T:0xd2 [Missing 1]
   |   ...    |
[[4 * NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (server) delay expires]]
   |     [[The server realizes a block is still missing and asks
   |        for the missing one.  Retry #3]]
   |<---------+ NON 4.08 M:0x03 T:0xd2 [Missing 1]
   |   ...    |
[[8 * NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (server) delay expires]]
   |     [[The server realizes a block is still missing and asks
   |        for the missing one.  Retry #4]]
   |<---------+ NON 4.08 M:0x04 T:0xd2 [Missing 1]
   |   ...    |
[[16 * NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (server) delay expires]]
   |     [[NON_MAX_RETRANSMIT exceeded.  Server stops requesting
   |       the missing blocks and releases partial body]]
   |   ...    |

Figure 6: Example of a NON Request with the Q-Block1 Option (with Eventual Failure)

10.2.  Q-Block2 Option

These examples include the Observe option to demonstrate how that option is used. Note that the
Observe option is not required for Q-Block2.

10.2.1.  A Simple Example

Figure 7 illustrates an example of the Q-Block2 option. The client sends a NON GET carrying the
Observe and Q-Block2 options. The Q-Block2 option indicates a block size hint (1024 bytes). The
server replies to this request using four (4) blocks that are transmitted to the client without any
loss. Each of these blocks carries a Q-Block2 option. The same process is repeated when an
Observe is triggered, but no loss is experienced by any of the notiﬁcation blocks.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

 CoAP        CoAP
Client      Server
  |          |
  +--------->| NON GET /path M:0x01 T:0xc0 O:0 QB2:0/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xf1 T:0xc0 O:1220 ET=19 QB2:0/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xf2 T:0xc0 O:1220 ET=19 QB2:1/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xf3 T:0xc0 O:1220 ET=19 QB2:2/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xf4 T:0xc0 O:1220 ET=19 QB2:3/0/1024
  |   ...    |
  |     [[Observe triggered]]
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xf5 T:0xc0 O:1221 ET=20 QB2:0/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xf6 T:0xc0 O:1221 ET=20 QB2:1/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xf7 T:0xc0 O:1221 ET=20 QB2:2/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xf8 T:0xc0 O:1221 ET=20 QB2:3/0/1024
  |   ...    |

Figure 7: Example of NON Notiﬁcations with the Q-Block2 Option (without Loss)

10.2.2.  Handling MAX_PAYLOADS Limits

Figure 8 illustrates the same scenario as Figure 7, but this time with eleven (11) payloads, which
exceeds MAX_PAYLOADS. There is no loss experienced.

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |          |
   +--------->| NON GET /path M:0x01 T:0xf0 O:0 QB2:0/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x81 T:0xf0 O:1234 ET=21 QB2:0/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x82 T:0xf0 O:1234 ET=21 QB2:1/1/1024
   |<---------+ [[Payloads 3 - 9 not detailed]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x8a T:0xf0 O:1234 ET=21 QB2:9/1/1024
[[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET has been received]]
   |     [[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET acknowledged by client using
   |       'Continue' Q-Block2]]
   +--------->| NON GET /path M:0x02 T:0xf1 QB2:10/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x8b T:0xf0 O:1234 ET=21 QB2:10/0/1024
   |   ...    |
   |     [[Observe triggered]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x91 T:0xf0 O:1235 ET=22 QB2:0/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x92 T:0xf0 O:1235 ET=22 QB2:1/1/1024
   |<---------+ [[Payloads 3 - 9 not detailed]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x9a T:0xf0 O:1235 ET=22 QB2:9/1/1024
[[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET has been received]]
   |     [[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET acknowledged by client using
   |       'Continue' Q-Block2]]
   +--------->| NON GET /path M:0x03 T:0xf2 QB2:10/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x9b T:0xf0 O:1235 ET=22 QB2:10/0/1024
[[Body has been received]]
   |   ...    |

Figure 8: Example of NON Notiﬁcations with the Q-Block2 Option (without Loss)

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

10.2.3.  Handling MAX_PAYLOADS with Recovery

Figure 9 shows an example of an Observe that is triggered but for which some notiﬁcation blocks
are lost. The client detects the missing blocks and requests their retransmission. It does so by
indicating the blocks that are missing as one or more Q-Block2 options.

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |   ...    |
   |     [[Observe triggered]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xa1 T:0xf0 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:0/1/1024
   |     X<---+ NON 2.05 M:0xa2 T:0xf0 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:1/1/1024
   |<---------+ [[Payloads 3 - 9 not detailed]]
   |     X<---+ NON 2.05 M:0xaa T:0xf0 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:9/1/1024
[[Some of the MAX_PAYLOADS_SET has been received]]
   |   ...    |
[[NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM (server) delay expires]]
   |     [[Server sends next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xab T:0xf0 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:10/0/1024
   |     [[On seeing a payload from the next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET,
   |       client realizes blocks are missing and asks for the
   |       missing ones in one go]]
   +--------->| NON GET /path M:0x04 T:0xf3 QB2:1/0/1024\
   |          |                             QB2:9/0/1024
   |     X<---+ NON 2.05 M:0xac T:0xf3 ET=23 QB2:1/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xad T:0xf3 ET=23 QB2:9/1/1024
   |   ...    |
[[NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (client) delay expires]]
   |     [[Client realizes block is still missing and asks for
   |       missing block]]
   +--------->| NON GET /path M:0x05 T:0xf4 QB2:1/0/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xae T:0xf4 ET=23 QB2:1/1/1024
[[Body has been received]]
   |   ...    |

Figure 9: Example of NON Notiﬁcations with the Q-Block2 Option (Block Recovery)

10.2.4.  Handling Recovery by Setting the M Bit

Figure 10 shows an example where an Observe is triggered but only the ﬁrst two notiﬁcation
blocks reach the client. In order to retrieve the missing blocks, the client sends a request with a
single Q-Block2 option with the M bit set.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |   ...    |
   |     [[Observe triggered]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xb1 T:0xf0 O:1237 ET=24 QB2:0/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xb2 T:0xf0 O:1237 ET=24 QB2:1/1/1024
   |     X<---+ NON 2.05 M:0xb3 T:0xf0 O:1237 ET=24 QB2:2/1/1024
   |     X<---+ [[Payloads 4 - 9 not detailed]]
   |     X<---+ NON 2.05 M:0xb9 T:0xf0 O:1237 ET=24 QB2:9/1/1024
[[Some of the MAX_PAYLOADS_SET has been received]]
   |   ...    |
[[NON_TIMEOUT_RANDOM (server) delay expires]]
   |     [[Server sends next MAX_PAYLOADS_SET]]
   |     X<---+ NON 2.05 M:0xba T:0xf0 O:1237 ET=24 QB2:10/0/1024
   |   ...    |
[[NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (client) delay expires]]
   |     [[Client realizes blocks are missing and asks for the
   |       missing ones in one go by setting the M bit]]
   +--------->| NON GET /path M:0x06 T:0xf5 QB2:2/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xbb T:0xf5 ET=24 QB2:2/1/1024
   |<---------+ [[Payloads 3 - 9 not detailed]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xc2 T:0xf5 ET=24 QB2:9/1/1024
[[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET has been received]]
   |     [[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET acknowledged by client using 'Continue'
   |       Q-Block2]]
   +--------->| NON GET /path M:0x87 T:0xf6 QB2:10/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xc3 T:0xf0 O:1237 ET=24 QB2:10/0/1024
[[Body has been received]]
   |   ...    |

Figure 10: Example of NON Notiﬁcations with the Q-Block2 Option (Block Recovery with the M Bit
Set)

10.3.  Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options

10.3.1.  A Simple Example

Figure 11 illustrates an example of a FETCH using both the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 options along
with an Observe option. No loss is experienced.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

 CoAP        CoAP
Client      Server
  |          |
  +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x10 T:0x90 O:0 RT=30 QB1:0/1/1024
  +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x11 T:0x91 O:0 RT=30 QB1:1/1/1024
  +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x12 T:0x93 O:0 RT=30 QB1:2/0/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x60 T:0x93 O:1320 ET=90 QB2:0/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x61 T:0x93 O:1320 ET=90 QB2:1/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x62 T:0x93 O:1320 ET=90 QB2:2/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x63 T:0x93 O:1320 ET=90 QB2:3/0/1024
  |   ...    |
  |     [[Observe triggered]]
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x64 T:0x93 O:1321 ET=91 QB2:0/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x65 T:0x93 O:1321 ET=91 QB2:1/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x66 T:0x93 O:1321 ET=91 QB2:2/1/1024
  |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x67 T:0x93 O:1321 ET=91 QB2:3/0/1024
  |   ...    |

Figure 11: Example of a NON FETCH with the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options (without Loss)

10.3.2.  Handling MAX_PAYLOADS Limits

Figure 12 illustrates the same scenario as Figure 11, but this time with eleven (11) payloads in both
directions, which exceeds MAX_PAYLOADS. There is no loss experienced.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |          |
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x30 T:0xa0 O:0 RT=10 QB1:0/1/1024
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x31 T:0xa1 O:0 RT=10 QB1:1/1/1024
   +--------->| [[Payloads 3 - 9 not detailed]]
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x39 T:0xa9 O:0 RT=10 QB1:9/1/1024
[[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET has been received]]
   |     [[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET acknowledged by server]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.31 M:0x80 T:0xa9
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x3a T:0xaa O:0 RT=10 QB1:10/0/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x81 T:0xaa O:1334 ET=21 QB2:0/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x82 T:0xaa O:1334 ET=21 QB2:1/1/1024
   |<---------+ [[Payloads 3 - 9 not detailed]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x8a T:0xaa O:1334 ET=21 QB2:9/1/1024
[[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET has been received]]
   |     [[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET acknowledged by client using
   |       'Continue' Q-Block2]]
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x3b T:0xab QB2:10/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x8b T:0xaa O:1334 ET=21 QB2:10/0/1024
   |   ...    |
   |     [[Observe triggered]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x8c T:0xaa O:1335 ET=22 QB2:0/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x8d T:0xaa O:1335 ET=22 QB2:1/1/1024
   |<---------+ [[Payloads 3 - 9 not detailed]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x95 T:0xaa O:1335 ET=22 QB2:9/1/1024
[[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET has been received]]
   |     [[MAX_PAYLOADS_SET acknowledged by client using
   |       'Continue' Q-Block2]]
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x3c T:0xac QB2:10/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0x96 T:0xaa O:1335 ET=22 QB2:10/0/1024
[[Body has been received]]
   |   ...    |

Figure 12: Example of a NON FETCH with the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options (without Loss)

Note that, as 'Continue' was used, the server continues to use the same token (0xaa), since the
'Continue' is not being used as a request for a new set of packets but rather is being used to
instruct the server to continue its transmission (Section 7.2).

10.3.3.  Handling Recovery

Consider now a scenario where some blocks are lost in transmission, as illustrated in Figure 13.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |          |
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x50 T:0xc0 O:0 RT=31 QB1:0/1/1024
   +--->X     | NON FETCH /path M:0x51 T:0xc1 O:0 RT=31 QB1:1/1/1024
   +--->X     | NON FETCH /path M:0x52 T:0xc2 O:0 RT=31 QB1:2/1/1024
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x53 T:0xc3 O:0 RT=31 QB1:3/0/1024
   |   ...    |
[[NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (server) delay expires]]

Figure 13: Example of a NON FETCH with the Q-Block1 and Q-Block2 Options (with Loss)

The server realizes that some blocks are missing and asks for the missing blocks in one go (Figure
14). It does so by indicating which blocks have not been received in the data portion of the
response. The token used in the response is the token that was used in the last received payload.
The client can then derive the Request-Tag by matching the token with the sent request.

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |          |
   |<---------+ NON 4.08 M:0xa0 T:0xc3 [Missing 1,2]
   |     [[Client responds with missing payloads]]
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x54 T:0xc4 O:0 RT=31 QB1:1/1/1024
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x55 T:0xc5 O:0 RT=31 QB1:2/1/1024
   |     [[Server received FETCH body,
   |       starts transmitting response body]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xa1 T:0xc3 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:0/1/1024
   |     X<---+ NON 2.05 M:0xa2 T:0xc3 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:1/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xa3 T:0xc3 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:2/1/1024
   |     X<---+ NON 2.05 M:0xa4 T:0xc3 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:3/0/1024
   |   ...    |
[[NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (client) delay expires]]
   |          |

Figure 14: Example of a NON Request with the Q-Block1 Option (Server Recovery)

The client realizes that not all the payloads of the response have been returned. The client then
asks for the missing blocks in one go (Figure 15). Note that, following
FETCH request does not include the Q-Block1 or any payload.

Section 2.7 of [RFC7959]

, the

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |          |
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x56 T:0xc6 RT=31 QB2:1/0/1024\
   |          |                                     QB2:3/0/1024
   |     [[Server receives FETCH request for missing payloads,
   |       starts transmitting missing blocks]]
   |     X<---+ NON 2.05 M:0xa5 T:0xc6 ET=23 QB2:1/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xa6 T:0xc6 ET=23 QB2:3/0/1024
   |   ...    |
[[NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (client) delay expires]]
   |     [[Client realizes block is still missing and asks for
   |       missing block]]
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x57 T:0xc7 RT=31 QB2:1/0/1024
   |     [[Server receives FETCH request for missing payload,
   |       starts transmitting missing block]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xa7 T:0xc7 ET=23 QB2:1/1/1024
[[Body has been received]]
   |   ...    |
   |     [[Observe triggered]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xa8 T:0xc3 O:1337 ET=24 QB2:0/1/1024
   |     X<---+ NON 2.05 M:0xa9 T:0xc3 O:1337 ET=24 QB2:1/1/1024
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xaa T:0xc3 O:1337 ET=24 QB2:2/0/1024
[[NON_RECEIVE_TIMEOUT (client) delay expires]]
   |     [[Client realizes block is still missing and asks for
   |       missing block]]
   +--------->| NON FETCH /path M:0x58 T:0xc8 RT=31 QB2:1/0/1024
   |     [[Server receives FETCH request for missing payload,
   |       starts transmitting missing block]]
   |<---------+ NON 2.05 M:0xa7 T:0xc8 ET=24 QB2:1/1/1024
[[Body has been received]]
   |   ...    |

Figure 15: Example of a NON Request with the Q-Block1 Option (Client Recovery)

11.  Security Considerations

Security considerations discussed in

Section 7 of [RFC7959]

 should be taken into account.

Security considerations discussed in Sections 11.3 and 11.4 of
account.

[RFC7252]

 should also be taken into

OSCORE provides end-to-end protection of all information that is not required for proxy
operations and requires that a security context is set up (
trusted that the source endpoint is legitimate even if the NoSec mode is used. However, an
intermediary node can modify the unprotected Outer Q-Block1 and/or Q-Block2 options to cause
a Q-Block transfer to fail or keep requesting all the blocks by setting the M bit and thus causing
attack ampliﬁcation. As discussed in
certain message ﬁelds and message types are not protected end to end and may be spoofed or
manipulated. Therefore, it is
Q-Block2 option is used.

 to use the NoSec mode if either the Q-Block1 or

, applications need to consider that

Section 12.1 of [RFC8613]

Section 3.1 of [RFC8613]

NOT RECOMMENDED

). It can be

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

If OSCORE is not used, it is also
or Q-Block2 option is used.

NOT RECOMMENDED

 to use the NoSec mode if either the Q-Block1

If NoSec is being used,
considerations for unprotected message ﬁelds even if OSCORE is not being used.

 discusses the security analysis and

Appendix D.5 of [RFC8613]

Security considerations related to the use of Request-Tag are discussed in

Section 5 of [RFC9175]

.

12.  IANA Considerations

12.1.  CoAP Option Numbers Registry

IANA has added the following entries to the "CoAP Option Numbers" subregistry
deﬁned in

 within the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters" registry:

[IANA-Options]

[RFC7252]

Number

Name

Reference

19

31

Q-Block1

RFC 9177

Q-Block2

RFC 9177

Table 4: Additions to CoAP Option
Numbers Registry

12.2.  Media Type Registration

IANA has registered the "application/missing-blocks+cbor-seq" media type in the "Media Types"
registry

. This registration follows the procedures speciﬁed in

[IANA-MediaTypes]

[RFC6838]

.

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

missing-blocks+cbor-seq

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

Must be encoded as a CBOR Sequence

[RFC8742]

, as deﬁned in Section

5 of RFC 9177.

Security considerations:

See Section 11 of RFC 9177.

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Published speciﬁcation:

RFC 9177

Applications that use this media type:

Data serialization and deserialization. In particular, the

type is used by applications relying upon block-wise transfers, allowing a server to specify
non-received blocks and request their retransmission, as deﬁned in Section 4 of RFC 9177.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

N/A

Person & email address to contact for further information:

IETF, iesg@ietf.org

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

none

Author:

See Authors' Addresses section of RFC 9177.

Change controller:

IESG

Provisional registration?

No

12.3.  CoAP Content-Formats Registry

IANA has registered the following CoAP Content-Format for the "application/missing-blocks+cbor-
seq" media type in the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry
within the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters" registry:

[IANA-Format]

 deﬁned in

[RFC7252]

Media Type

Encoding

ID

Reference

application/missing-blocks+cbor-seq

-

272

RFC 9177

Table 5: Addition to CoAP Content-Format Registry

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6838]

[RFC7252]

[RFC7641]

[RFC7959]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
,
, March 1997,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,
Freed, N. Klensin, J.
Procedures" BCP 13 RFC 6838 DOI 10.17487/RFC6838
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6838>

, and
,

,

,

,

T. Hansen "Media Type Speciﬁcations and Registration

, January 2013,

<https://

,
Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
.
info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

,

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

,

Hartke, K. "Observing Resources in the Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP)" RFC 7641 DOI 10.17487/RFC7641
.
editor.org/info/rfc7641>

, September 2015,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

 and

,
Bormann, C.
Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 7959 DOI 10.17487/RFC7959
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7959>

Z. Shelby, Ed. "Block-Wise Transfers in the Constrained

, August 2016,

,

,

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

[RFC8075]

[RFC8132]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8323]

[RFC8610]

[RFC8613]

[RFC8742]

[RFC8949]

[RFC9175]

,

E. Dijk "Guidelines for
Castellani, A. Loreto, S. Rahman, A. Fossati, T.
,
,
Mapping Implementations: HTTP to the Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP)" RFC 8075 DOI 10.17487/RFC8075
<https://www.rfc-
.
editor.org/info/rfc8075>

, February 2017,

, and

,

,

,

,

van der Stok, P. Bormann, C.
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 8132 DOI 10.17487/RFC8132
2017,

A. Sehgal "PATCH and FETCH Methods for the
, April

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8132>

, and

,

,

,

,
,
Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
.
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

,

,
Bormann, C. Lemay, S. Tschofenig, H. Hartke, K. Silverajan, B.
B. Raymor,
,
Ed. "CoAP (Constrained Application Protocol) over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets"
, February 2018,
,
RFC 8323 DOI 10.17487/RFC8323
.
rfc8323>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, and

,

, and

,
Birkholz, H. Vigano, C.
(CDDL): A Notational Convention to Express Concise Binary Object
Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures" RFC 8610 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8610

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8610>

C. Bormann "Concise Data Deﬁnition Language

, June 2019,

,

,

,

Selander, G. Mattsson, J. Palombini, F.
,
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)" RFC 8613 DOI 10.17487/RFC8613
July 2019,

L. Seitz "Object Security for
,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8613>

, and

,

,

,

,
Bormann, C. "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) Sequences" RFC
,
8742 DOI 10.17487/RFC8742
.
rfc8742>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, February 2020,

,

Bormann, C.
,
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
.
editor.org/info/rfc8949>

 and
,
P. Hoﬀman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
,
, December 2020,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Amsüss, C. Preuß Mattsson, J.
G. Selander "Constrained Application
Protocol (CoAP): Echo, Request-Tag, and Token Processing" RFC 9175 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9175>
10.17487/RFC9175

, February 2022,

, and

,

,

,

13.2.  Informative References

[DOTS-QUICK-BLOCKS]

 and

Boucadair, M.

J. Shallow "Distributed Denial-of-Service Open
Threat Signaling (DOTS) Signal Channel Conﬁguration Attributes for Robust
,
Block Transmission" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-bosh-dots-quick-
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-bosh-dots-
, 29 June 2021,
blocks-03
quick-blocks-03>
.

,

,

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

[DOTS-TELEMETRY]

,

Boucadair, M., Ed. Reddy.K, T., Ed. Doron, E. Chen, M.

,
"Distributed Denial-of-Service Open Threat Signaling (DOTS) Telemetry" Work in
Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-dots-telemetry-19
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-dots-telemetry-19>
.

,
<https://

, 4 January 2022,

J. Shallow
,

, and

,

,

[IANA-Format]

IANA "CoAP Content-Formats" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/core-

,

,
parameters/>
.

[IANA-MediaTypes]

IANA "Media Types" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/>
.

,

,

[IANA-Options]

[RFC6928]

[RFC7967]

[RFC8974]

[RFC9132]

IANA "CoAP Option Numbers" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/core-

,

,
parameters/>
.

,

Chu, J. Dukkipati, N. Cheng, Y.
,
RFC 6928 DOI 10.17487/RFC6928
.
rfc6928>

,

, and

,
M. Mathis "Increasing TCP's Initial Window"

,

, April 2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
Bhattacharyya, A. Bandyopadhyay, S. Pal, A.
Application Protocol (CoAP) Option for No Server Response" RFC 7967 DOI
10.17487/RFC7967

T. Bose "Constrained
,
,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7967>

, August 2016,

, and

,

,

 and

M. Richardson "Extended Tokens and Stateless Clients in the
Hartke, K.
,
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 8974 DOI 10.17487/RFC8974
January 2021,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8974>

,

,

,

Boucadair, M., Ed. Shallow, J.
Threat Signaling (DOTS) Signal Channel Speciﬁcation" RFC 9132 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9132

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9132>

T. Reddy.K "Distributed Denial-of-Service Open

, September 2021,

, and

,

,

,

,

Appendix A.  Examples with Conﬁrmable Messages

The following examples assume NSTART has been increased to 3.

The conventions provided in Section 10 are used in the following subsections.

A.1.  Q-Block1 Option

Let's now consider the use of the Q-Block1 option with a CON request, as shown in Figure 16. All
the blocks are acknowledged (as noted with "ACK").

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |          |
   +--------->| CON PUT /path M:0x01 T:0xf0 RT=10 QB1:0/1/1024
   +--------->| CON PUT /path M:0x02 T:0xf1 RT=10 QB1:1/1/1024
   +--------->| CON PUT /path M:0x03 T:0xf2 RT=10 QB1:2/1/1024
[[NSTART(3) limit reached]]
   |<---------+ ACK 0.00 M:0x01
   +--------->| CON PUT /path M:0x04 T:0xf3 RT=10 QB1:3/0/1024
   |<---------+ ACK 0.00 M:0x02
   |<---------+ ACK 0.00 M:0x03
   |<---------+ ACK 2.04 M:0x04
   |          |

Figure 16: Example of a CON Request with the Q-Block1 Option (without Loss)

Now, suppose that a new body of data is to be sent but with some blocks dropped in transmission,
as illustrated in Figure 17. The client will retry sending blocks for which no ACK was received.

  CoAP        CoAP
 Client      Server
   |          |
   +--------->| CON PUT /path M:0x05 T:0xf4 RT=11 QB1:0/1/1024
   +--->X     | CON PUT /path M:0x06 T:0xf5 RT=11 QB1:1/1/1024
   +--->X     | CON PUT /path M:0x07 T:0xf6 RT=11 QB1:2/1/1024
[[NSTART(3) limit reached]]
   |<---------+ ACK 0.00 M:0x05
   +--------->| CON PUT /path M:0x08 T:0xf7 RT=11 QB1:3/1/1024
   |<---------+ ACK 0.00 M:0x08
   |   ...    |
[[ACK TIMEOUT (client) for M:0x06 delay expires]]
   |     [[Client retransmits packet]]
   +--------->| CON PUT /path M:0x06 T:0xf5 RT=11 QB1:1/1/1024
[[ACK TIMEOUT (client) for M:0x07 delay expires]]
   |     [[Client retransmits packet]]
   +--->X     | CON PUT /path M:0x07 T:0xf6 RT=11 QB1:2/1/1024
   |<---------+ ACK 0.00 M:0x06
   |   ...    |
[[ACK TIMEOUT exponential backoff (client) delay expires]]
   |     [[Client retransmits packet]]
   +--->X     | CON PUT /path M:0x07 T:0xf6 RT=11 QB1:2/1/1024
   |   ...    |
[[Either body transmission failure (acknowledge retry timeout)
   or successfully transmitted]]

Figure 17: Example of a CON Request with the Q-Block1 Option (Block Recovery)

It is up to the implementation as to whether the application process stops trying to send this
particular body of data on reaching MAX_RETRANSMIT for any payload or separately tries to
initiate the new transmission of the payloads that have not been acknowledged under these
adverse traﬃc conditions.

If transient network losses are possible, then the use of NON should be considered.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

A.2.  Q-Block2 Option

An example of the use of the Q-Block2 option with Conﬁrmable messages is shown in Figure 18.

 Client      Server
   |          |
   +--------->| CON GET /path M:0x01 T:0xf0 O:0 QB2:0/1/1024
   |<---------+ ACK 2.05 M:0x01 T:0xf0 O:1234 ET=21 QB2:0/1/1024
   |<---------+ CON 2.05 M:0xe1 T:0xf0 O:1234 ET=21 QB2:1/1/1024
   |<---------+ CON 2.05 M:0xe2 T:0xf0 O:1234 ET=21 QB2:2/1/1024
   |<---------+ CON 2.05 M:0xe3 T:0xf0 O:1234 ET=21 QB2:3/0/1024
   |--------->+ ACK 0.00 M:0xe1
   |--------->+ ACK 0.00 M:0xe2
   |--------->+ ACK 0.00 M:0xe3
   |   ...    |
   |     [[Observe triggered]]
   |<---------+ CON 2.05 M:0xe4 T:0xf0 O:1235 ET=22 QB2:0/1/1024
   |<---------+ CON 2.05 M:0xe5 T:0xf0 O:1235 ET=22 QB2:1/1/1024
   |<---------+ CON 2.05 M:0xe6 T:0xf0 O:1235 ET=22 QB2:2/1/1024
[[NSTART(3) limit reached]]
   |--------->+ ACK 0.00 M:0xe4
   |<---------+ CON 2.05 M:0xe7 T:0xf0 O:1235 ET=22 QB2:3/0/1024
   |--------->+ ACK 0.00 M:0xe5
   |--------->+ ACK 0.00 M:0xe6
   |--------->+ ACK 0.00 M:0xe7
   |   ...    |
   |     [[Observe triggered]]
   |<---------+ CON 2.05 M:0xe8 T:0xf0 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:0/1/1024
   |     X<---+ CON 2.05 M:0xe9 T:0xf0 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:1/1/1024
   |     X<---+ CON 2.05 M:0xea T:0xf0 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:2/1/1024
[[NSTART(3) limit reached]]
   |--------->+ ACK 0.00 M:0xe8
   |<---------+ CON 2.05 M:0xeb T:0xf0 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:3/0/1024
   |--------->+ ACK 0.00 M:0xeb
   |   ...    |
[[ACK TIMEOUT (server) for M:0xe9 delay expires]]
   |     [[Server retransmits packet]]
   |<---------+ CON 2.05 M:0xe9 T:0xf0 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:1/1/1024
[[ACK TIMEOUT (server) for M:0xea delay expires]]
   |     [[Server retransmits packet]]
   |     X<---+ CON 2.05 M:0xea T:0xf0 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:2/1/1024
   |--------->+ ACK 0.00 M:0xe9
   |   ...    |
[[ACK TIMEOUT exponential backoff (server) delay expires]]
   |     [[Server retransmits packet]]
   |     X<---+ CON 2.05 M:0xea T:0xf0 O:1236 ET=23 QB2:2/1/1024
   |   ...    |
[[Either body transmission failure (acknowledge retry timeout)
   or successfully transmitted]]

Figure 18: Example of CON Notiﬁcations with the Q-Block2 Option

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

It is up to the implementation as to whether the application process stops trying to send this
particular body of data on reaching MAX_RETRANSMIT for any payload or separately tries to
initiate the new transmission of the payloads that have not been acknowledged under these
adverse traﬃc conditions.

If transient network losses are possible, then the use of NON should be considered.

Appendix B.  Examples with Reliable Transports

The conventions provided in Section 10 are used in the following subsections.

B.1.  Q-Block1 Option

Let's now consider the use of the Q-Block1 option with a reliable transport, as shown in Figure 19.
There is no acknowledgment of packets at the CoAP layer, just the ﬁnal result.

 CoAP        CoAP
Client      Server
  |          |
  +--------->| PUT /path T:0xf0 RT=10 QB1:0/1/1024
  +--------->| PUT /path T:0xf1 RT=10 QB1:1/1/1024
  +--------->| PUT /path T:0xf2 RT=10 QB1:2/1/1024
  +--------->| PUT /path T:0xf3 RT=10 QB1:3/0/1024
  |<---------+ 2.04
  |          |

Figure 19: Example of a Reliable Request with the Q-Block1 Option

If transient network losses are possible, then the use of unreliable transport with NON should be
considered.

B.2.  Q-Block2 Option

An example of the use of the Q-Block2 option with a reliable transport is shown in Figure 20.

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9177

Quick Block-Wise Transfer Options

March 2022

Client      Server
  |          |
  +--------->| GET /path T:0xf0 O:0 QB2:0/1/1024
  |<---------+ 2.05 T:0xf0 O:1234 ET=21 QB2:0/1/1024
  |<---------+ 2.05 T:0xf0 O:1234 ET=21 QB2:1/1/1024
  |<---------+ 2.05 T:0xf0 O:1234 ET=21 QB2:2/1/1024
  |<---------+ 2.05 T:0xf0 O:1234 ET=21 QB2:3/0/1024
  |   ...    |
  |     [[Observe triggered]]
  |<---------+ 2.05 T:0xf0 O:1235 ET=22 QB2:0/1/1024
  |<---------+ 2.05 T:0xf0 O:1235 ET=22 QB2:1/1/1024
  |<---------+ 2.05 T:0xf0 O:1235 ET=22 QB2:2/1/1024
  |<---------+ 2.05 T:0xf0 O:1235 ET=22 QB2:3/0/1024
  |   ...    |

Figure 20: Example of Notiﬁcations with the Q-Block2 Option

If transient network losses are possible, then the use of unreliable transport with NON should be
considered.

Acknowledgments

Thanks to

Achim Kraus Jim Schaad
,

, and

Michael Richardson

 for their comments.

Christian Amsüss Carsten Bormann
,

Special thanks to
several reviews, which improved this speciﬁcation signiﬁcantly. Thanks to
for the AD review. Thanks to
review, and
Benjamin Kaduk Roman Danyliw John Scudder

 for the Gen-ART review,
 for the IOT-DIR review. Thanks to

Emmanuel Baccelli

Marco Tiloca

Pete Resnick

Lars Eggert

, and

, and

,

,

Colin Perkins
 for the TSVART
Martin Duke Éric Vyncke
,
,
 for the IESG review.

 for their suggestions and
Francesca Palombini

Some text from

[RFC7959]

 is reused for the readers' convenience.

Authors' Addresses

Mohamed Boucadair
Orange
35000 Rennes
France
Email:

 mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Jon Shallow
United Kingdom
Email:

 supjps-ietf@jpshallow.com

Boucadair & Shallow

Standards Track

Page 41

