Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9071
4103
Standards Track
July 2021
2070-1721
G. Hellström
GHAccess

RFC 9071
RTP-Mixer Formatting of Multiparty Real-Time Text

Abstract

This document provides enhancements of real-time text (as speciﬁed in RFC 4103) suitable for
mixing in a centralized conference model, enabling source identiﬁcation and rapidly interleaved
transmission of text from diﬀerent sources. The intended use is for real-time text mixers and
participant endpoints capable of providing an eﬃcient presentation or other treatment of a
multiparty real-time text session. The speciﬁed mechanism builds on the standard use of the
Contributing Source (CSRC) list in the Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) packet for source
identiﬁcation. The method makes use of the same "text/t140" and "text/red" formats as for two-
party sessions.

Solutions using multiple RTP streams in the same RTP session are brieﬂy mentioned, as they
could have some beneﬁts over the RTP-mixer model. The RTP-mixer model was selected to be
used for the fully speciﬁed solution in this document because it can be applied to a wide range of
existing RTP implementations.

A capability exchange is speciﬁed so that it can be veriﬁed that a mixer and a participant can
handle the multiparty-coded real-time text stream using the RTP-mixer method. The capability is
indicated by the use of a Session Description Protocol (SDP) (RFC 8866) media attribute, "rtt-
mixer".

This document updates RFC 4103 ("RTP Payload for Text Conversation").

A speciﬁcation for how a mixer can format text for the case when the endpoint is not multiparty
aware is also provided.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9071

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology

1.2.  Main Method, Fallback Method, and Considered Alternatives

1.3.  Intended Application

2.  Overview of the Two Speciﬁed Solutions and Selection of Method

2.1.  The RTP-Mixer-Based Solution for Multiparty-Aware Endpoints

2.2.  Mixing for Multiparty-Unaware Endpoints

2.3.  Oﬀer/Answer Considerations

2.4.  Actions Depending on Capability Negotiation Result

3.  Details for the RTP-Mixer-Based Mixing Method for Multiparty-Aware Endpoints

3.1.  Use of Fields in the RTP Packets

3.2.  Initial Transmission of a BOM Character

3.3.  Keep-Alive

3.4.  Transmission Interval

3.5.  Only One Source per Packet

3.6.  Do Not Send Received Text to the Originating Source

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

3.7.  Clean Incoming Text

3.8.  Principles of Redundant Transmission

3.9.  Text Placement in Packets

3.10. Empty T140blocks

3.11. Creation of the Redundancy

3.12. Timer Oﬀset Fields

3.13. Other RTP Header Fields

3.14. Pause in Transmission

3.15. RTCP Considerations

3.16. Reception of Multiparty Contents

3.17. Performance Considerations

3.18. Security for Session Control and Media

3.19. SDP Oﬀer/Answer Examples

3.20. Packet Sequence Example from Interleaved Transmission

3.21. Maximum Character Rate "cps" Setting

4.  Presentation-Level Considerations

4.1.  Presentation by Multiparty-Aware Endpoints

4.2.  Multiparty Mixing for Multiparty-Unaware Endpoints

5.  Relationship to Conference Control

5.1.  Use with SIP Centralized Conferencing Framework

5.2.  Conference Control

6.  Gateway Considerations

6.1.  Gateway Considerations with Textphones

6.2.  Gateway Considerations with WebRTC

7.  Updates to RFC 4103

8.  Congestion Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  Registration of the "rtt-mixer" SDP Media Attribute

10. Security Considerations

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

11. References

11.1.  Normative References

11.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

"RTP Payload for Text Conversation"
Protocol (RTP)
 for transmission of real-time text (often called RTT) and the "text/t140"
format. It also speciﬁes a redundancy format, "text/red", for increased robustness. The "text/red"
format is registered in

 speciﬁes the use of the Real-time Transport

.
[RFC4102]

[RFC3550]

[RFC4103]

Real-time text is usually provided together with audio and sometimes with video in
conversational sessions.

A requirement related to multiparty sessions from the presentation-level standard T.140
for real-time text is as follows:

[T140]

The display of text from the members of the conversation should be arranged so that the
text from each participant is clearly readable, and its source and the relative timing of
entered text is visualized in the display.

Another requirement is that the mixing procedure must not introduce delays in the text streams
that could be perceived as disruptive to the real-time experience of the receiving users.

The use of real-time text is increasing, and speciﬁcally, use in emergency calls is increasing.
Emergency call use requires multiparty mixing, because it is common that one agent needs to
transfer the call to another specialized agent but is obliged to stay on the call to at least verify
that the transfer was successful. Mixer implementations for RFC 4103 ("RTP Payload for Text
Conversation") can use traditional RTP functions (RFC 3550) for mixing and source identiﬁcation,
but the performance of the mixer when giving turns for the diﬀerent sources to transmit is
limited when using the default transmission characteristics with redundancy.

[RFC4103]

The redundancy scheme described in
transmitted redundant text in packets together with new text. However, the redundancy header
format has no source indicators for the redundant transmissions. The redundant parts in a
packet must therefore be from the same source as the new text. The recommended transmission
is one new and two redundant generations of text (T140blocks) in each packet, and the
recommended transmission interval for two-party use is 300 ms.

 enables eﬃcient transmission of earlier

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

Real-time text mixers for multiparty sessions need to include the source with each transmitted
group of text from a conference participant so that the text can be transmitted interleaved with
text groups from diﬀerent sources at the rate at which they are created. This enables the text
groups to be presented by endpoints in a suitable grouping with other text from the same source.

The presentation can then be arranged so that text from diﬀerent sources can be presented in
real time and easily read. At the same time, it is possible for a reading user to perceive
approximately when the text was created in real time by the diﬀerent parties. The transmission
and mixing are intended to be done in a general way, so that presentation can be arranged in a
layout decided upon by the receiving endpoint.

Existing implementations of RFC 4103 in endpoints that do not implement the updates speciﬁed
in this document cannot be expected to properly present real-time text mixed for multiparty-
aware endpoints.

A negotiation mechanism is therefore needed to verify if the parties (1) are able to handle a
common method for multiparty transmissions and (2) can agree on using that method.

A fallback mixing procedure is also needed for cases when the negotiation result indicates that a
receiving endpoint is not capable of handling the mixed format. Multiparty-unaware endpoints
would possibly otherwise present all received multiparty mixed text as if it came from the same
source regardless of any accompanying source indication coded in ﬁelds in the packet. Or, they
may have other undesirable ways of acting on the multiparty content. The fallback method is
called the mixing procedure for multiparty-unaware endpoints. The fallback method is naturally
not expected to meet all performance requirements placed on the mixing procedure for
multiparty-aware endpoints.

This document updates
mixer-based multiparty-mixing case and rules for source indications and interleaving of text
from diﬀerent sources.

 by introducing an attribute for declaring support of the RTP-

[RFC4103]

1.1.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

The terms "Source Description" (SDES), "Canonical Name" (CNAME), "Name" (NAME),
"Synchronization Source" (SSRC), "Contributing Source" (CSRC), "CSRC list", "CSRC count" (CC),
"RTP Control Protocol" (RTCP), and "RTP mixer" are deﬁned in

[RFC3550]

.

"real-time text" (RTT) is text transmitted instantly as it is typed or created. Recipients can
immediately read the message while it is being written, without waiting.

The term "T140block" is deﬁned in

[RFC4103]

 to contain one or more T.140 code elements.

"TTY" stands for a textphone type used in North America.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) is speciﬁed by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)
and the IETF. See

[RFC8825]

.

"DTLS-SRTP" is a Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) extension for use with the Secure
Real-time Transport Protocol / Secure Real-time Transport Control Protocol (SRTP/SRTCP) as
speciﬁed in

[RFC5764]

.

The term "multiparty aware" describes an endpoint that (1) receives real-time text from multiple
sources through a common conference mixer, (2) is able to present the text in real time,
separated by source, and (3) presents the text so that a user can get an impression of the
approximate relative timing of text from diﬀerent parties.

The term "multiparty unaware" describes an endpoint that cannot itself separate text from
diﬀerent sources when the text is received through a common conference mixer.

1.2.  Main Method, Fallback Method, and Considered Alternatives

A number of alternatives were considered when searching for an eﬃcient and easily
implemented multiparty method for real-time text. This section brieﬂy explains a few of them.

Multiple RTP streams, one per participant:

[RFC7667]

 and the same payload type. A couple of relevant scenarios using multiple RTP

. One possibility of special interest is the
Section 3.7 of [RFC7667]
, which

One RTP stream per source would be sent in the same RTP session with the "text/red" format.
From some points of view, the use of multiple RTP streams, one for each source, sent in the
same RTP session would be eﬃcient and would use exactly the same packet format as
[RFC4103]
streams are speciﬁed in "RTP Topologies"
Selective Forwarding Middlebox (SFM) topology speciﬁed in
could enable end-to-end encryption. In contrast to audio and video, real-time text is only
transmitted when the users actually transmit information. Thus, an SFM solution would not
need to exclude any party from transmission under normal conditions. In order to allow the
mixer to convey the packets with the payload preserved and encrypted, an SFM solution
would need to act on some speciﬁc characteristics of the "text/red" format. The redundancy
headers are part of the payload, so the receiver would need to just assume that the payload
type number in the redundancy header is for "text/t140". The characters per second ("cps")
parameter would need to act per stream. The relationship between the SSRC and the source
would need to be conveyed in some speciﬁed way, e.g., in the CSRC. Recovery and loss
detection would preferably be based on RTP sequence number gap detection. Thus, sequence
number gaps in the incoming stream to the mixer would need to be reﬂected in the stream to
the participant, with no new gaps created by the mixer. However, the RTP implementation in
both mixers and endpoints needs to support multiple streams in the same RTP session in
order to use this mechanism. To provide the best opportunities for deployment, it should be
possible to upgrade existing endpoint solutions to be multiparty aware with a reasonable
amount of eﬀort. There is currently a lack of support for multi-stream RTP in certain
implementations. This fact led to only brief mention of this solution in this document as an
option for further study.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

RTP-mixer-based method for multiparty-aware endpoints:

The "text/red" format as deﬁned in RFC 4102 and applied in RFC 4103 is sent with the RTP-
mixer method indicating the source in the CSRC ﬁeld. The "text/red" format with a "text/t140"
payload in a single RTP stream can be sent when text is available from the call participants
instead of at the regular 300 ms intervals. Transmission of packets with text from diﬀerent
sources can then be done smoothly while simultaneous transmission occurs as long as it is not
limited by the maximum character rate "cps" value. With ten participants sending text
simultaneously, the switching and transmission performance is good. With more
simultaneously sending participants and with receivers at default capacity, there will be a
noticeable jerkiness and delay in text presentation. The more participants who send text
simultaneously, the more jerkiness will occur. Two seconds of jerkiness will be noticeable and
slightly unpleasant, but it corresponds in time to what typing humans often cause by
hesitating or changing position while typing. A beneﬁt of this method is that no new packet
format needs to be introduced and implemented. Since simultaneous typing by more than
two parties is expected to be very rare -- as described in Section 1.3 -- this method can be used
successfully with good performance. Recovery of text in the case of packet loss is based on
analysis of timestamps of received redundancy versus earlier received text. Negotiation is
based on a new SDP media attribute, "rtt-mixer". This method was selected to be the main
method speciﬁed in this document.

Multiple sources per packet:

A new "text" media subtype would be speciﬁed with up to 15 sources in each packet. The
mechanism would make use of the RTP-mixer model speciﬁed in RTP
would be indicated in strict order in the CSRC list of the RTP packets. The CSRC list can have
up to 15 members. Therefore, text from up to 15 sources can be included in each packet.
Packets are normally sent at 300 ms intervals. The mean delay would be 150 ms. A new
redundancy packet format would be speciﬁed. This method would result in good performance
but would require standardization and implementation of new releases in the target
technologies; these would take more time than desirable to complete. It was therefore not
selected to be included in this document.

. The sources

[RFC3550]

Mixing for multiparty-unaware endpoints:

The presentation of text from multiple parties is prepared by the mixer in one single stream.
It is desirable to have a method that does not require any modiﬁcations in existing user
devices implementing RFC 4103 for real-time text without explicit support of multiparty
sessions. This is made possible by having the mixer insert a new line and a text-formatted
source label before each switch of text source in the stream. Switching the source can only be
done in places in the text where it does not disturb the perception of the contents. Text from
only one source at a time can be presented in real time. The delay will therefore vary. In calls
where parties take turns properly by ending their entries with a new line, the limitations will
have limited inﬂuence on the user experience. When only two parties send text, these two
will see the text in real time with no delay. Although this method also has other limitations, it
is included in this document as a fallback method.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

Real-time text transport in WebRTC:

[RFC8865]
 speciﬁes how the WebRTC data channel can be used to transport real-time text.
That speciﬁcation contains a section brieﬂy describing its use in multiparty sessions. The
focus of this document is RTP transport. Therefore, even if the WebRTC transport provides
good multiparty performance, it is only mentioned in this document in relation to providing
gateways with multiparty capabilities between RTP and WebRTC technologies.

1.3.  Intended Application

The method for multiparty real-time text speciﬁed in this document is primarily intended for use
in transmissions between mixers and endpoints in centralized mixing conﬁgurations. It is also
applicable between mixers. An often-mentioned application is for emergency service calls with
real-time text and voice, where a call taker wants to make an attended handover of a call to
another agent and stay on the call to observe the session. Multimedia conference sessions with
support for participants to contribute with text is another example. Conferences with central
support for speech-to-text conversion represent yet another example.

In all these applications, normally only one participant at a time will send long text comments. In
some cases, one other participant will occasionally contribute with a longer comment
simultaneously. That may also happen in some rare cases when text is translated to text in
another language in a conference. Apart from these cases, other participants are only expected to
contribute with very brief comments while others are sending text.

Users expect the text they send to be presented in real time in a readable way to the other
participants even if they send simultaneously with other users and even when they make brief
edit operations of their text by backspacing and correcting their text.

Text is supposed to be human generated, by some means of text input, such as typing on a
keyboard or using speech-to-text technology. Occasional small cut-and-paste operations may
appear even if that is not the initial purpose of real-time text.

The real-time characteristics of real-time text are essential for the participants to be able to
contribute to a conversation. If the text is delayed too much between the typing of a character
and its presentation, then, in some conference situations, the opportunity to comment will be
gone and someone else will grab the turn. A delay of more than one second in such situations is
an obstacle to good conversation.

2.  Overview of the Two Speciﬁed Solutions and Selection of
Method

This section contains a brief introduction of the two methods speciﬁed in this document.

2.1.  The RTP-Mixer-Based Solution for Multiparty-Aware Endpoints

This method speciﬁes the negotiated use of the formats described in RFC 4103, for multiparty
transmissions in a single RTP stream. The main purpose of this document is to specify a method
for true multiparty real-time text mixing for multiparty-aware endpoints that can be widely

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

[RFC4103]

. This method updates RFC 4103 by clarifying one way to use it in the

deployed. The RTP-mixer-based method makes use of the current format for real-time text as
provided in
multiparty situation. That is done by completing a negotiation for this kind of multiparty
capability and by interleaving packets from diﬀerent sources. The source is indicated in the CSRC
element in the RTP packets. Speciﬁc considerations are made regarding the ability to recover text
after packet loss.

The detailed procedures for the RTP-mixer-based multiparty-aware case are speciﬁed in Section
3.

Please refer to

[RFC4103]

 when reading this document.

2.2.  Mixing for Multiparty-Unaware Endpoints

This document also speciﬁes a method to be used in cases when the endpoint participating in a
multiparty call does not itself implement any solution or does not implement the same solution
as the mixer. This method requires the mixer to insert text dividers and readable labels and only
send text from one source at a time until a suitable point appears for changing the source. This
solution is a fallback method with functional limitations. It operates at the presentation level.

SHOULD

 by default format and transmit text to a call participant so that the text is

A mixer
suitable for presentation on a multiparty-unaware endpoint that has not negotiated any method
for true multiparty real-time text handling but has negotiated a "text/red" or "text/t140" format in
a session. This
maintain interoperability. Section 4.2 speciﬁes how this mixing is done.

 be done if nothing else is speciﬁed for the application, in order to

SHOULD

2.3.  Oﬀer/Answer Considerations

"RTP Payload for Text Conversation"
redundancy format ("text/red", as deﬁned in
[RFC4103]
text transmission. This document updates
handling multiparty real-time text, a way to indicate the source of transmitted text, and rules for
eﬃcient timing of the transmissions interleaved from diﬀerent sources.

) for increased robustness of real-time
 by introducing a capability negotiation for

 speciﬁes the use of RTP

[RFC4102]

[RFC3550]

[RFC4103]

 and a

The capability negotiation for the RTP-mixer-based multiparty method is based on the use of the
SDP media attribute "rtt-mixer".

The syntax is as follows:

   a=rtt-mixer

If in the future any other method for RTP-based multiparty real-time text is speciﬁed by
additional work, it is assumed that it will be recognized by some speciﬁc SDP feature exchange.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

2.3.1.  Initial Oﬀer

A party that intends to set up a session and is willing to use the RTP-mixer-based method
provided in this speciﬁcation for sending, receiving, or both sending and receiving real-time text
 include the "rtt-mixer" SDP attribute in the corresponding "text" media section in the
SHALL
initial oﬀer.

The party
this speciﬁcation and other methods.

MAY

 indicate its capability regarding both the RTP-mixer-based method provided in

When the oﬀerer has sent the oﬀer, which includes the "rtt-mixer" attribute, it
to receive and handle real-time text formatted according to both the method for multiparty-
aware parties speciﬁed in Section 3 and two-party formatted real-time text.

MUST

 be prepared

2.3.2.  Answering the Oﬀer

A party that receives an oﬀer containing the "rtt-mixer" SDP attribute and is willing to use the
RTP-mixer-based method provided in this speciﬁcation for sending, receiving, or both sending
and receiving real-time text
 include the "rtt-mixer" SDP attribute in the corresponding
SHALL
"text" media section in the answer.

If the oﬀer did not contain the "rtt-mixer" attribute, the answer
attribute.

MUST NOT

 contain the "rtt-mixer"

Even when the "rtt-mixer" attribute is successfully negotiated, the parties
two-party coded real-time text.

MAY

 send and receive

An answer
in the same RTP session.

MUST NOT

 include acceptance of more than one method for multiparty real-time text

When the answer, which includes acceptance, is transmitted, the answerer
act on received text in the negotiated session according to the method for multiparty-aware
parties speciﬁed in Section 3. Reception of text for a two-party session

SHALL

MUST

 also be supported.

 be prepared to

2.3.3.  Oﬀerer Processing the Answer

When the answer is processed by the oﬀerer, the oﬀerer
Section 2.4.

MUST

 follow the requirements listed in

2.3.4.  Modifying a Session

A session
 be modiﬁed at any time by any party oﬀering a modiﬁed SDP with or without the
"rtt-mixer" SDP attribute expressing a desired change in the support of multiparty real-time text.

MAY

If the modiﬁed oﬀer adds the indication of support for multiparty real-time text by including the
 be applied.
"rtt-mixer" SDP attribute, the procedures speciﬁed in the previous subsections

SHALL

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

If the modiﬁed oﬀer deletes the indication of support for multiparty real-time text by excluding
the "rtt-mixer" SDP attribute, the answer
processing this SDP exchange, the parties
aware parties according to this speciﬁcation.

 contain the "rtt-mixer" attribute. After
 send real-time text formatted for multiparty-

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

2.4.  Actions Depending on Capability Negotiation Result

SHALL

A transmitting party
when the negotiation for that method was successful and when it conveys text for another
source. In all other cases, the packets
session.

 send text according to the RTP-mixer-based multiparty method only

 be populated and interpreted as for a two-party

SHALL

A party that has negotiated the "rtt-mixer" SDP media attribute and acts as an RTP mixer sending
 (1) populate the CSRC list and (2) format the packets according to Section 3.
multiparty text

MUST

A party that has negotiated the "rtt-mixer" SDP media attribute
 interpret the contents of
the CC ﬁeld, the CSRC list, and the packets according to Section 3 in received RTP packets in the
corresponding RTP stream.

MUST

 transmit packets interleaved from diﬀerent sources in the same RTP stream, as

A party that has not successfully completed the negotiation of the "rtt-mixer" SDP media attribute
MUST NOT
speciﬁed in Section 3. If the party is a mixer and did declare the "rtt-mixer" SDP media attribute,
 perform the procedure for multiparty-unaware endpoints. If the party is not a mixer,
it
 transmit as in a two-party session according to
it

[RFC4103]

SHOULD

SHOULD

.

3.  Details for the RTP-Mixer-Based Mixing Method for
Multiparty-Aware Endpoints

3.1.  Use of Fields in the RTP Packets

SHALL

The CC ﬁeld
transmissions from a mixer when conveying text from other sources in a multiparty session, and
otherwise 0.

 show the number of members in the CSRC list, which

 be one (1) in

SHALL

When text is conveyed by a mixer during a multiparty session, a CSRC list
the packet. The single member in the CSRC list
T140blocks in the packet.

SHALL

 contain the SSRC of the source of the

SHALL

 be included in

 level of redundancy is to use one primary and
When redundancy is used, the
two redundant generations of T140blocks. In some cases, a primary or redundant T140block is
empty but is still represented by a member in the redundancy header.

RECOMMENDED

In other respects, the contents of the RTP packets will be as speciﬁed in

.
[RFC4103]

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

3.2.  Initial Transmission of a BOM Character

As soon as a participant is known to participate in a session with another entity and is available
for text reception, a Unicode byte order mark (BOM) character
entity according to the procedures in this section. This is useful in many conﬁgurations for
opening ports and ﬁrewalls and for setting up the connection between the application and the
network. If the transmitter is a mixer, then the source of this character
the mixer itself.

 be sent to it by the other

 be indicated to be

SHALL

SHALL

Note that the BOM character
other text.

3.3.  Keep-Alive

SHALL

 be transmitted with the same redundancy procedures as any

 send keep-alive traﬃc to the receiver(s) at regular intervals
After that, the transmitter
when no other traﬃc has occurred during that interval, if that is decided upon for the actual
connection. It is
consent check

 is a possible alternative if it is used anyway for other reasons.

 to use the keep-alive solution provided in

RECOMMENDED

[RFC7675]

[RFC6263]

SHALL

. The

3.4.  Transmission Interval

SHALL

 send packets distributed over time as

A "text/red" or "text/t140" transmitter in a mixer
long as there is something (new or redundant T140blocks) to transmit. The maximum
transmission interval between text transmissions from the same source
SHALL
when no other limitations cause a longer interval to be temporarily used. It is
 to
send the next packet to a receiver as soon as new text to that receiver is available, as long as the
mean character rate of new text to the receiver calculated over the last 10 one-second intervals
does not exceed the "cps" value of the receiver. The intention is to keep the latency low and
network load limited while keeping good protection against text loss in bursty packet loss
conditions. The main purpose of the 330 ms interval is for the timing of redundant transmissions,
when no new text from the same source is available.

 then be 330 ms,
RECOMMENDED

The value of 330 ms is used, because many sources of text will transmit new text at 300 ms
intervals during periods of continuous user typing, and then reception in the mixer of such new
text will cause a combined transmission of the new text and the unsent redundancy from the
previous transmission. Only when the user stops typing will the 330 ms interval be applied to
send the redundancy.

If the characters per second ("cps") value is reached, a longer transmission interval
applied for text from all sources as speciﬁed in
for transmission
without exceeding the "cps" value. Division of text for partial transmission
T140block borders. When the transmission rate falls below the "cps" value again, the
transmission intervals
SHALL
made as soon as new text is available.

 be reset to 330 ms and transmission of new text

 be sent at the end of each transmission interval as can be allowed

[RFC4103]

SHALL

SHALL

MUST

SHALL

 and only as much of the text queued

 again be

 be

 then be made at

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

NOTE: Extending the transmission intervals during periods of high load does not
change the number of characters to be conveyed. It just evens out the load over time
and reduces the number of packets per second. With human-created conversational
text, the sending user will eventually take a pause, letting transmission catch up.

See also Section 8.

For a transmitter not acting as a mixer, the transmission interval principles provided in
[RFC4103]

 apply, and the normal transmission interval

 be 300 ms.

SHALL

3.5.  Only One Source per Packet

New text and redundant copies of earlier text from one source
packet if available for transmission at the same time. Text from diﬀerent sources
transmitted in the same packet.

SHALL

 be transmitted in the same

MUST NOT

 be

3.6.  Do Not Send Received Text to the Originating Source

Text received by a mixer from a participant
mixer to that participant, because for text that is produced locally, the normal behavior of the
endpoint is to present such text directly when it is produced.

 be included in transmissions from the

SHOULD NOT

3.7.  Clean Incoming Text

SHALL

 handle reception, recovery from packet loss, deletion of superﬂuous redundancy,

A mixer
marking of possible text loss, and deletion of BOM characters from each participant before
queueing received text for transmission to receiving participants as speciﬁed in
[RFC4103]
single-party sources and Section 3.16 for multiparty sources (chained mixers).

 for

3.8.  Principles of Redundant Transmission

A transmitting party using redundancy
transmitted in earlier packets.

SHALL

 send redundant repetitions of T140blocks already

The number of redundant generations of T140blocks to include in transmitted packets
deduced from the SDP negotiation. It
the two parties negotiating a connection. It is
original and two redundant generations of the T140blocks, because this provides good protection
against text loss in the case of packet loss and also provides low overhead.

SHALL
 be set to the minimum of the number declared by

 to declare and transmit one

RECOMMENDED

SHALL

 be

3.9.  Text Placement in Packets

The mixer
following conditions have occurred:

SHALL

 compose and transmit an RTP packet to a receiver when one or more of the

•

The transmission interval is the normal 330 ms (no matter whether the transmission interval
has passed or not), and there is newly received unsent text available for transmission to that
receiver.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

•

The current transmission interval has passed and is longer than the normal 330 ms, and
there is newly received unsent text available for transmission to that receiver.

•

The current transmission interval (normally 330 ms) has passed since already-transmitted
text was queued for transmission as redundant text.

The principles provided in
and the data in the packet with speciﬁc information, as detailed here and in the following
sections.

 apply for populating the header, the redundancy header,

[RFC4103]

At the time of transmission, the mixer
queued for transmission originating from the source selected for transmission as long as this is
not in conﬂict with the allowed number of characters per second ("cps") or the maximum packet
size. In this way, the latency of the latest received text is kept low even in moments of
simultaneous transmission from many sources.

 populate the RTP packet with all T140blocks

SHALL

SHALL

Redundant text
included within the maximum packet size
priority to be transmitted in its entirety. See Section 3.4.

 also be included, and the assessment of how much new text can be
 take into account that the redundancy has

MUST

The SSRC of the source

SHALL

 be placed as the only member in the CSRC list.

Note: The CSRC list in an RTP packet only includes the participant whose text is
included in text blocks. It is not the same as the total list of participants in a
conference. With audio and video media, the CSRC list would often contain all
participants who are not muted, whereas text participants that don't type are
completely silent and thus are not represented in RTP packet CSRC lists.

3.10.  Empty T140blocks

If no unsent T140blocks were available for a source at the time of populating a packet but
already-transmitted T140blocks are available that have not yet been sent the full intended
number of redundant transmissions, then the primary area in the packet is composed of an
empty T140block and included (without taking up any length) in the packet for transmission. The
corresponding SSRC

 be placed as usual in its place in the CSRC list.

SHALL

The ﬁrst packet in the session, the ﬁrst after a source switch, and the ﬁrst after a pause
SHALL
populated with the available T140blocks for the source selected to be sent as the primary, and
empty T140blocks for the agreed-upon number of redundancy generations.

 be

3.11.  Creation of the Redundancy

The primary T140block from a source in the latest transmitted packet is saved for populating the
ﬁrst redundant T140block for that source in the next transmission of text from that source. The
ﬁrst redundant T140block for that source from the latest transmission is saved for populating the
second redundant T140block in the next transmission of text from that source.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

Usually, this is the level of redundancy used. If a higher level of redundancy is negotiated, then
the procedure
 be continued until all available redundant levels of T140blocks are placed
in the packet. If a receiver has negotiated a lower number of "text/red" generations, then that
level

 be the maximum used by the transmitter.

SHALL

SHALL

The T140blocks saved for transmission as redundant data are assigned a planned transmission
time of 330 ms after the current time but
source gets selected for transmission before that time.

 be transmitted earlier if new text for the same

SHOULD

3.12.  Timer Oﬀset Fields

The timestamp oﬀset values
from the RTP timestamp in the packet when the corresponding T140block was sent as the
primary.

 be inserted in the redundancy header, with the time oﬀset

SHALL

The timestamp oﬀsets are expressed in the same clock tick units as the RTP timestamp.

The timestamp oﬀset values for empty T140blocks have no relevance but
realistic values.

SHOULD

 be assigned

3.13.  Other RTP Header Fields

The number of members in the CSRC list (0 or 1)
mixers place value 1 in the CC ﬁeld. A value of 0 indicates that the source is the transmitting
device itself and that the source is indicated by the SSRC ﬁeld. This value is used by endpoints
and also by mixers sending self-sourced data.

 be placed in the CC header ﬁeld. Only

SHALL

The current time

SHALL

 be inserted in the timestamp.

The SSRC header ﬁeld
transmitted.

SHALL

 contain the SSRC of the RTP session where the packet will be

The M-bit

SHALL

 be handled as speciﬁed in

[RFC4103]

.

3.14.  Pause in Transmission

When there is no new T140block to transmit and no redundant T140block that has not been
retransmitted the intended number of times from any source, the transmission process
 be
stopped until either new T140blocks arrive or a keep-alive method calls for transmission of keep-
alive packets.

SHALL

3.15.  RTCP Considerations

SHALL

 send RTCP reports with SDES, CNAME, and NAME information about the sources
A mixer
in the multiparty call. This makes it possible for participants to compose a suitable label for text
from each source.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

 be taken when composing these ﬁelds. They contain name and
Privacy considerations
address information that may be considered sensitive if the information is transmitted in its
entirety, e.g., to unauthenticated participants.

SHALL

3.16.  Reception of Multiparty Contents

The "text/red" receiver included in an endpoint with presentation functions will receive RTP
packets in the single stream from the mixer and
presentation in presentation areas for each source. Other receiver roles, such as gateways or
chained mixers, are also feasible. Whether the stream will only be forwarded or will be
distributed based on the diﬀerent sources must be taken into consideration.

 distribute the T140blocks for

SHALL

3.16.1.  Acting on the Source of the Packet Contents

If the CC ﬁeld value of a received packet is 1, it indicates that the text is conveyed from a source
indicated in the single member in the CSRC list, and the receiver
according to its role. If the CC value is 0, the source is indicated in the SSRC ﬁeld.

 act on the source

MUST

3.16.2.  Detection and Indication of Possible Text Loss

SHALL

 monitor the RTP sequence numbers of the received packets for gaps and for

The receiver
packets received out of order. If a sequence number gap appears and still exists after some
deﬁned short time for jitter and reordering resolution, the packets in the gap
as lost.

 be regarded

SHALL

If it is known that only one source is active in the RTP session, then it is likely that a gap equal to
or larger than the agreed-upon number of redundancy generations (including the primary)
causes text loss. In that case, the receiver
SHALL
text loss
source.

, associate it with the source, and insert it in the reception buﬀer for that

 create a T140block with a marker for possible

[T140ad1]

If it is known that more than one source is active in the RTP session, then it is not possible in
general to evaluate if text was lost when packets were lost. With two active sources and the
recommended number of redundancy generations (one original and two redundant), it can take
a gap of ﬁve consecutive lost packets before any text may be lost, but text loss can also appear if
three non-consecutive packets are lost when they contained consecutive data from the same
source. A simple method for deciding when there is a risk of resulting text loss is to evaluate if
three or more packets were lost within one second. If this simple method is used, then a
T140block
the SSRC of the RTP session as a general input from the mixer.

 be created with a marker for possible text loss

 and associated with

[T140ad1]

SHOULD

Implementations
was lost or not. Any reﬁned method
marking when it is uncertain if there was loss.

SHOULD

MAY

 apply more reﬁned methods for more reliable detection of whether text

 prefer marking possible loss rather than not

3.16.3.  Extracting Text and Handling Recovery

When applying the following procedures, the eﬀects of possible timestamp wraparound and the
RTP session possibly changing the SSRC

 be considered.

MUST

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

When a packet is received in an RTP session using the packetization for multiparty-aware
endpoints, its T140blocks

 be extracted as described below.

SHALL

The source

SHALL

 be extracted from the CSRC list if available, and otherwise from the SSRC.

SHALL

If the received packet is the ﬁrst packet received from the source, then all T140blocks in the
packet
 be retrieved and assigned to a receive buﬀer for that source, beginning with the
oldest available redundant generation, continuing with the younger redundant generations in
age order, and ﬁnally ending with the primary.

Note: The normal case is that in the ﬁrst packet, only the primary data has contents.
The redundant data has contents in the ﬁrst received packet from a source only
after initial packet loss.

 start with the oldest generation. The timestamp of that redundant data

If the packet is not the ﬁrst packet from a source, then if redundant data is available, the process
 be created
SHALL
by subtracting its timestamp oﬀset from the RTP timestamp. If the resulting timestamp is later
than the latest retrieved data from the same source, then the redundant data
and appended to the receive buﬀer. The process
younger generations of redundant data. After that, the timestamp of the packet
compared with the timestamp of the latest retrieved data from the same source and if it is later,
then the primary data
for the source.

 be retrieved from the packet and appended to the receive buﬀer

 be continued in the same way for all

 be retrieved

SHALL

SHALL

SHALL

SHALL

SHALL

 be

3.16.4.  Delete BOM

The Unicode BOM character is used as a start indication and is sometimes used as a ﬁller or keep-
alive by transmission implementations. Any BOM characters
from received packets.

 be deleted after extraction

SHALL

3.17.  Performance Considerations

This solution has good performance with low text delays, as long as the mean number of
characters per second sent during any 10-second interval from a number of simultaneously
sending participants to a receiving participant does not reach the "cps" value. At higher numbers
of sent characters per second, a jerkiness is visible in the presentation of text. The solution is
therefore suitable for emergency service use, relay service use, and small or well-managed larger
multimedia conferences. In large unmanaged conferences with a high number of participants
only, on very rare occasions, situations might arise where many participants happen to send text
simultaneously. In such circumstances, the result may be unpleasantly jerky presentation of text
from each sending participant. It should be noted that it is only the number of users sending text
within the same moment that causes jerkiness, not the total number of users with real-time text
capability.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

3.18.  Security for Session Control and Media

 be applied when possible regarding the capabilities of the participating devices by using
 on

Security mechanisms to provide conﬁdentiality, integrity protection, and peer authentication
SHOULD
the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) over TLS by default according to
the session control level and by default using DTLS-SRTP
applications where legacy endpoints without security are allowed, a negotiation
performed to decide if encryption at the media level will be applied. If no other security solution
is mandated for the application, then the Opportunistic Secure Real-time Transport Protocol
(OSRTP)
 is a suitable method to be applied to negotiate SRTP media security with
DTLS. For simplicity, most SDP examples below are expressed without the security additions. The
principles (but not all details) for applying DTLS-SRTP security
of the following examples.

 at the media level. In
SHOULD

Section 3.1.3 of [RFC5630]

 are shown in a couple

[RFC5764]

[RFC5764]

[RFC8643]

 be

Further general security considerations are covered in Section 10.

End-to-end encryption would require further work and could be based on WebRTC as speciﬁed
in Section 1.2 or on double encryption as speciﬁed in

[RFC8723]
.

3.19.  SDP Oﬀer/Answer Examples

This section shows some examples of SDP for session negotiation of the real-time text media in
SIP sessions. Audio is usually provided in the same session, and sometimes also video. The
examples only show the part of importance for the real-time text media. The examples relate to
the single RTP stream mixing for multiparty-aware endpoints and for multiparty-unaware
endpoints.

MAY

 also be provided through other methods, e.g., by

Note: Multiparty real-time text
a Selective Forwarding Middlebox (SFM). In that case, the SDP of the oﬀer will
include something speciﬁc for that method, e.g., an SDP attribute or another media
format. An answer selecting the use of that method would accept it via a
corresponding acknowledgement included in the SDP. The oﬀer may also contain
the "rtt-mixer" SDP media attribute for the main real-time text media when the
oﬀerer has this capability for both multiparty methods, while an answer, choosing
to use SFM, will not include the "rtt-mixer" SDP media attribute.

Oﬀer example for the "text/red" format, multiparty support, and capability for 90 characters per
second:

   m=text 11000 RTP/AVP 100 98
   a=rtpmap:98 t140/1000
   a=fmtp:98 cps=90
   a=rtpmap:100 red/1000
   a=fmtp:100 98/98/98
   a=rtt-mixer

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

Answer example from a multiparty-aware device:

   m=text 14000 RTP/AVP 100 98
   a=rtpmap:98 t140/1000
   a=fmtp:98 cps=90
   a=rtpmap:100 red/1000
   a=fmtp:100 98/98/98
   a=rtt-mixer

Oﬀer example for the "text/red" format, including multiparty and security:

   a=fingerprint: (fingerprint1)
   m=text 11000 RTP/AVP 100 98
   a=rtpmap:98 t140/1000
   a=rtpmap:100 red/1000
   a=fmtp:100 98/98/98
   a=rtt-mixer

The "ﬁngerprint" is suﬃcient to oﬀer DTLS-SRTP, with the media line still indicating RTP/AVP.

Note: For brevity, the entire value of the SDP "ﬁngerprint" attribute is not shown in
this and the following example.

Answer example from a multiparty-aware device with security:

   a=fingerprint: (fingerprint2)
   m=text 16000 RTP/AVP 100 98
   a=rtpmap:98 t140/1000
   a=rtpmap:100 red/1000
   a=fmtp:100 98/98/98
   a=rtt-mixer

With the "ﬁngerprint", the device acknowledges the use of DTLS-SRTP.

Answer example from a multiparty-unaware device that also does not support security:

   m=text 12000 RTP/AVP 100 98
   a=rtpmap:98 t140/1000
   a=rtpmap:100 red/1000
   a=fmtp:100 98/98/98

3.20.  Packet Sequence Example from Interleaved Transmission

This example shows a symbolic ﬂow of packets from a mixer, including loss and recovery. The
sequence includes interleaved transmission of text from two real-time text sources: A and B. P
indicates primary data.  R1 is the ﬁrst redundant generation of data, and R2 is the second
redundant generation of data. A1, B1, A2, etc. are text chunks (T140blocks) received from the

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

respective sources and sent on to the receiver by the mixer.  X indicates a dropped packet
between the mixer and a receiver. The session is assumed to use the original and two redundant
generations of real-time text.

  |-----------------------|
  |Seq no 101, Time=20400 |
  |CC=1                   |
  |CSRC list A            |
  |R2: A1, Offset=600     |
  |R1: A2, Offset=300     |
  |P:  A3                 |
  |-----------------------|

Assuming that earlier packets (with text A1 and A2) were received in sequence, text A3 is
received from packet 101 and assigned to reception buﬀer A. The mixer is now assumed to have
received initial text from source B 100 ms after packet 101 and will send that text. Transmission
of A2 and A3 as redundancy is planned for 330 ms after packet 101 if no new text from A is ready
to be sent before that.

   |-----------------------|
   |Seq no 102, Time=20500 |
   |CC=1                   |
   |CSRC list B            |
   |R2  Empty, Offset=600  |
   |R1: Empty, Offset=300  |
   |P:  B1                 |
   |-----------------------|

Packet 102 is received.

B1 is retrieved from this packet. Redundant transmission of B1 is planned 330 ms after packet
102.

   X------------------------|
   X Seq no 103, Timer=20730|
   X CC=1                   |
   X CSRC list A            |
   X R2: A2, Offset=630     |
   X R1: A3, Offset=330     |
   X P:  Empty              |
   X------------------------|

Packet 103 is assumed to be lost due to network problems.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

It contains redundancy for A. Sending A3 as second-level redundancy is planned for 330 ms
after packet 103.

   X------------------------|
   X Seq no 104, Timer=20800|
   X CC=1                   |
   X CSRC list B            |
   X R2: Empty, Offset=600  |
   X R1: B1, Offset=300     |
   X P:  B2                 |
   X------------------------|

Packet 104 contains text from B, including new B2 and redundant B1. It is assumed dropped
due to network problems.

The mixer has A3 redundancy to send, but no new text appears from A, and therefore the
redundancy is sent 330 ms after the previous packet with text from A.

   |------------------------|
   | Seq no 105, Timer=21060|
   | CC=1                   |
   | CSRC list A            |
   | R2: A3, Offset=660     |
   | R1: Empty, Offset=330  |
   | P:  Empty              |
   |------------------------|

Packet 105 is received.

A gap for lost packets 103 and 104 is detected. Assume that no other loss was detected during
the last second. It can then be concluded that nothing was totally lost.

R2 is checked. Its original time was 21060-660=20400. A packet with text from A was received
with that timestamp, so nothing needs to be recovered.

B1 and B2 still need to be transmitted as redundancy. This is planned 330 ms after packet 104.
That would be at 21130.

   |-----------------------|
   |Seq no 106, Timer=21130|
   |CC=1                   |
   |CSRC list B            |
   | R2: B1, Offset=630    |
   | R1: B2, Offset=330    |
   | P:  Empty             |
   |-----------------------|

Packet 106 is received.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

The second-level redundancy in packet 106 is B1 and has a timestamp oﬀset of 630 ms. The
timestamp of packet 106 minus 630 is 20500, which is the timestamp of packet 102 that was
received. So, B1 does not need to be retrieved. The ﬁrst-level redundancy in packet 106 has an
oﬀset of 330. The timestamp of packet 106 minus 330 is 20800. That is later than the latest
received packet with source B. Therefore, B2 is retrieved and assigned to the input buﬀer for
source B. No primary is available in packet 106.

After this sequence, A3, B1, and B2 have been received. In this case, no text was lost.

3.21.  Maximum Character Rate "cps" Setting

The default maximum rate of reception of "text/t140" real-time text, as speciﬁed in
30 characters per second. The actual rate is calculated without regard to any redundant text
transmission and is, in the multiparty case, evaluated for all sources contributing to transmission
to a receiver. The value
"text/t140" format of the "text" media section.

 be modiﬁed in the "cps" parameter of the "fmtp" attribute for the

[RFC4103]

MAY

, is

A mixer combining real-time text from a number of sources may occasionally have a higher
combined ﬂow of text coming from the sources. Endpoints
 therefore include a suitable
higher value for the "cps" parameter, corresponding to its real reception capability. The default
"cps" value 30 can be assumed to be suﬃcient for small meetings and well-managed larger
conferences with users only making manual text entry. A "cps" value of 90 can be assumed to be
suﬃcient even for large unmanaged conferences and for cases when speech-to-text technologies
are used for text entry. This is also a reachable performance for receivers in modern
technologies, and 90 is therefore the
and use of the "cps" parameter. The same rules apply for the multiparty case.

 "cps" value. See

 for the format

RECOMMENDED

[RFC4103]

SHOULD

4.  Presentation-Level Considerations

"Protocol for multimedia application text conversation"
requirements for RTP transport as described in
formatting functions are speciﬁed in
presentation:

[T140]

[RFC4103]

[T140]

 provides the presentation-level

. Functions for erasure and other

, which has the following general statement for the

The display of text from the members of the conversation should be arranged so that the
text from each participant is clearly readable, and its source and the relative timing of
entered text is visualized in the display. Mechanisms for looking back in the contents
from the current session should be provided. The text should be displayed as soon as it
is received.

[T140]

 is essential for the interoperability of real-time text implementations
Strict application of
and to fulﬁll the intention that the session participants have the same information conveyed in
the text contents of the conversation without necessarily having the exact same layout of the
conversation.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

 speciﬁes a set of presentation control codes (Section 4.2.4) to include in the stream. Some

MUST

 ignore optional control codes that they do not

[T140]
of them are optional. Implementations
support.

 be used as a separator allowing a part of received text to be grouped in a presentation.

There is no strict "message" concept in real-time text. The Unicode Line Separator character
SHALL
The character combination "CRLF" may be used by other implementations as a replacement for
the Line Separator. The "CRLF" combination
SHALL
same as the Line Separator. Presentation functions are allowed to group text for presentation in
smaller groups than the Line Separators imply and present such groups with a source indication
together with text groups from other sources (see the following presentation examples). Erasure
has no speciﬁc limit by any delimiter in the text stream.

 be erased by just one erasing action, the

4.1.  Presentation by Multiparty-Aware Endpoints

A multiparty-aware receiving party presenting real-time text
sources and present them in separate presentation ﬁelds. The receiving party
presentation of parts of text from a source in readable groups based on criteria other than a Line
Separator and merge these groups in the presentation area when it beneﬁts the user to most
, for example, be a
easily ﬁnd and read text from the diﬀerent participants. The criteria
received comma, a full stop, some other type of phrase delimiter, or a long pause.

 separate text from diﬀerent
 separate the
MAY

MUST

MAY

When text is received from multiple original sources, the presentation
where text is added in multiple presentation ﬁelds.

SHALL

 provide a view

SHOULD

 insert text from the local user, where the text ends at suitable points and is

If the presentation presents text from diﬀerent sources in one common area, the presenting
endpoint
merged properly with received text to indicate the relative timing for when the text groups were
completed. In this presentation mode, the receiving endpoint
 present the source of the
diﬀerent groups of text. This presentation style is called the "chat" style here and provides the
possibility of following text arriving from multiple parties and the approximate relative time that
text is received as related to text from the local user.

SHALL

A view of a three-party real-time text call in chat style is shown in this example.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

          _________________________________________________
         |                                              |^|
         |[Alice] Hi, Alice here.                       |-|
         |                                              | |
         |[Bob] Bob as well.                            | |
         |                                              | |
         |[Eve] Hi, this is Eve, calling from Paris.    | |
         |      I thought you should be here.           | |
         |                                              | |
         |[Alice] I am coming on Thursday, my           | |
         |      performance is not until Friday morning.| |
         |                                              | |
         |[Bob] And I on Wednesday evening.             | |
         |                                              | |
         |[Alice] Can we meet on Thursday evening?      | |
         |                                              | |
         |[Eve] Yes, definitely. How about 7pm.         | |
         |     at the entrance of the restaurant        | |
         |     Le Lion Blanc?                           | |
         |[Eve] we can have dinner and then take a walk |-|
         |______________________________________________|v|
         | <Eve-typing> But I need to be back to        |^|
         |    the hotel by 11 because I need            |-|
         |                                              | |
         | <Bob-typing> I wou                           |-|
         |______________________________________________|v|
         | of course, I underst                           |
         |________________________________________________|

Figure 1: Example of a Three-Party Real-Time Text Call Presented in Chat Style Seen at Participant
Alice's Endpoint

Presentation styles other than the chat style

MAY

 be arranged.

Figure 2 shows how a coordinated column view

MAY

 be presented.

_____________________________________________________________________
|       Bob          |       Eve            |       Alice           |
|____________________|______________________|_______________________|
|                    |                      |I will arrive by TGV.  |
|My flight is to Orly|                      |Convenient to the main |
|                    |Hi all, can we plan   |station.               |
|                    |for the seminar?      |                       |
|Eve, will you do    |                      |                       |
|your presentation on|                      |                       |
|Friday?             |Yes, Friday at 10.    |                       |
|Fine, wo            |                      |We need to meet befo   |
|___________________________________________________________________|

Figure 2: An Example of a Coordinated Column View of a Three‑Party Session with Entries Ordered
Vertically in Approximate Time Order

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

4.2.  Multiparty Mixing for Multiparty-Unaware Endpoints

SHALL

When the mixer has indicated multiparty real-time text capability in an SDP negotiation but the
multiparty capability negotiation fails with an endpoint, the agreed-upon "text/red" or "text/t140"
format
real-time text in one stream intended to be presented by an endpoint with no multiparty
awareness, when that is desired in the actual implementation. The following speciﬁes a
procedure that

 compose a best-eﬀort presentation of multiparty

 be applied in that situation.

 be used and the mixer

SHOULD

MAY

This presentation format has functional limitations and
participation in multiparty calls by legacy deployed endpoints implementing only RFC 4103
without any multiparty extensions speciﬁed in this document.

 be used only to enable

SHOULD

The principles and procedures below do not specify any new protocol elements. They are instead
composed of information provided in
presentation on an endpoint that has functions originally intended only for two-party calls.

 and an ambition to provide a best-eﬀort

[T140]

SHALL

 group text in suitable groups and prepare them for presentation by

The mixer performing the mixing for multiparty-unaware endpoints
simulated, limited multiparty real-time text view suitable for presentation in one presentation
area. The mixer
inserting a Line Separator between them if the transmitted text did not already end with a new
line (Line Separator or CRLF). A presentable label
initially in the session and after each source switch. With this procedure, the time for switching
from transmission of text from one source to transmission of text from another source depends
on the actions of the users. In order to expedite source switching, a user can, for example, end its
turn with a new line.

 be composed and sent for the source

 compose a

SHALL

SHALL

4.2.1.  Actions by the Mixer at Reception from the Call Participants

When text is received by the mixer from the diﬀerent participants, the mixer
from redundancy if any packets are lost. The marker for lost text
the stream if unrecoverable loss appears. Any Unicode BOM characters, possibly used for keep-
alives,
SHALL
be stored together with the received text from each source in queues for transmission to the
recipients in order to be able to evaluate text loss.

 be deleted. The time of creation of text (retrieved from the RTP timestamp)

 recover text
 be inserted in

[T140ad1] SHALL

SHALL

SHALL

4.2.2.  Actions by the Mixer for Transmission to the Recipients

The following procedure
text from the mixer.

SHALL

 be applied for each multiparty-unaware recipient of multiparty

SHALL

 be formatted by the mixer for each receiving user for

The text for transmission
presentation in one single presentation area. Text received from a participant
included in transmissions to that participant, because it is usually presented locally at
transmission time. When there is text available for transmission from the mixer to a receiving
party from more than one participant, the mixer
from the diﬀerent sources at suitable points in the transmitted stream.

 switch between transmission of text

SHOULD NOT

SHALL

 be

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

SHALL

When switching the source, the mixer
text did not end with a new line (Line Separator or CRLF). A label
information in the CNAME and NAME ﬁelds in RTCP reports from the participant to have its text
transmitted, or from other session information for that user. The label
suitable characters (e.g., "[ ]") and transmitted. The CSRC
Then, text from that selected participant
switching the source is reached.

 insert a Line Separator if the already-transmitted
SHALL

 indicate the selected source.
 be transmitted until a new suitable point for

 be composed of

 be delimited by

SHALL

SHALL

SHALL

Information available to the mixer for composing the label may contain sensitive personal
information that
conﬁdentiality protected. Privacy considerations regarding how much personal information is
included in the label

 be revealed in sessions not securely authenticated and

 therefore be taken when composing the label.

SHOULD NOT

SHOULD

Seeking a suitable point for switching the source
for transmission from any party than the age of the last transmitted text. Suitable points for
switching are:

 be done when there is older text waiting

SHALL

•

A completed phrase ending with a comma.

•

A completed sentence.

•

A new line (Line Separator or CRLF).

•

A long pause (e.g., > 10 seconds) in received text from the currently transmitted source.

•

If text from one participant has been transmitted with text from other sources waiting for
transmission for a long time (e.g., > 1 minute) and none of the other suitable points for
switching has occurred, a source switch
MAY
delimiter, and also even if a word delimiter does not occur within some period of time (e.g.,
15 seconds) after the scan for a word delimiter started.

 be forced by the mixer at the next word

When switching the source, the source that has the oldest text in queue
transmitted. A character display count
 be maintained for the currently transmitted
source, starting at zero after the label is transmitted for the currently transmitted source.

SHALL

SHALL

 be selected to be

SHALL

The status
 be maintained for the latest control code for Select Graphic Rendition (SGR)
from each source. If there is an SGR code stored as the status for the current source before the
source switch is done, a reset of SGR
+006D] after the new line and before the new label during a source switch. See Section 4.2.4 for
an explanation. This transmission does not inﬂuence the display count.

 be sent by the sequence SGR 0 [U+009B U+0000 U

SHALL

If there is an SGR code stored for the new source after the source switch, that SGR code
SHALL
transmitted to the recipient before the label. This transmission does not inﬂuence the display
count.

 be

4.2.3.  Actions on Transmission of Text

Text from a source sent to the recipient
character.

SHALL

 increase the display count by one per transmitted

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

4.2.4.  Actions on Transmission of Control Codes

The following control codes, as speciﬁed by T.140
cause speciﬁc considerations in the mixer. Note that the codes presented here are expressed in
UTF-16, while transmission is made in the UTF-8 encoding of these codes.

, require speciﬁc actions. They

[T140]

SHALL

BEL (U+0007):
count

SHALL NOT

 be altered.

Bell. Alert in session. Provides for alerting during an active session. The display

NEW LINE (U+2028):

Line Separator. Check and perform a source switch if appropriate.

Increase the display count by 1.

CR LF (U+000D U+000A):

A supported, but not preferred, way of requesting a new line. Check

and perform a source switch if appropriate. Increase the display count by 1.

INT (ESC U+0061):

count

SHALL NOT

Interrupt (used to initiate the mode negotiation procedure). The display
 be altered.

SGR (U+009B Ps U+006D):
[ISO6429]

speciﬁed in
The display count
source.

. (For freely available equivalent information, please see

Select Graphic Rendition. Ps represents the rendition parameters
[ECMA-48]
 be stored for the current

 be altered. The SGR code

SHOULD

SHALL NOT

.)

SOS (U+0098):

Start of String. Used as a general protocol element introducer, followed by a

maximum 256-byte string and the ST. The display count

SHALL NOT

 be altered.

ST (U+009C):

String Terminator. End of SOS string. The display count

SHALL NOT

 be altered.

ESC (U+001B):

Escape. Used in control strings. The display count

SHALL NOT

 be altered for the

complete escape code.

Byte order mark (BOM) (U+FEFF):

"Zero width no-break space". Used for synchronization and

 be deleted from incoming streams. It
keep-alive. It
session establishment to the recipient. The display count

SHALL

SHALL

 also be sent ﬁrst after

SHALL NOT

 be altered.

Missing text mark (U+FFFD):

"Replacement character". Represented as a question mark in a
rhombus, or, if that is not feasible, replaced by an apostrophe ('). It marks the place in the
stream of possible text loss. This mark
case of unrecoverable loss of packets. The display count
as for any other character.

 be inserted by the reception procedure in the

 be increased by one when sent

SHALL

SHALL

SGR:

If a control code for SGR other than a reset of the graphic rendition (SGR 0) is sent to a

recipient, that control code
 also be stored as the status for the source in the storage for
SGR status. If a reset graphic rendition (SGR 0) originating from a source is sent, then the SGR
status storage for that source

 be cleared. The display count

 be increased.

SHALL NOT

SHALL

SHALL

BS (U+0008):

"Back Space". Intended to erase the last entered character by a source. Erasure by

backspace cannot always be performed as the erasing party intended. If an erasing action
erases all text up to the end of the leading label after a source switch, then the mixer
MUST

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

 transmit more backspaces. Instead, it is

NOT
the text stream for each backspace as an indication of the intent to erase more. A new line is
usually coded by a Line Separator, but the character combination "CRLF"
instead. Erasure of a new line is, in both cases, done by just one erasing action (backspace). If
the display count has a positive value, it
display count is at zero, it

 be decreased by one when the BS is sent. If the

 that a letter "X" be inserted in

SHALL
 be altered.

RECOMMENDED

SHALL NOT

 be used

MAY

4.2.5.  Packet Transmission

A mixer transmitting to a multiparty-unaware endpoint
source per packet. The SSRC
member and be the SSRC of the source of the primary data.

SHALL

 be the SSRC of the mixer. The CSRC list

MAY

 contain one

SHALL

 send primary data only from one

4.2.6.  Functional Limitations

When a multiparty-unaware endpoint presents a conversation in one display area in a chat style,
it inserts source indications for remote text and local user text as they are merged in completed
text groups. When an endpoint using this layout receives and presents text mixed for multiparty-
unaware endpoints, there will be two levels of source indicators for the received text: one
generated by the mixer and inserted in a label after each source switch, and another generated
by the receiving endpoint and inserted after each switch between the local source and the
remote source in the presentation area. This will waste display space and look inconsistent to the
reader.

New text can be presented from only one source at a time. Switching the source to be presented
takes place at suitable places in the text, such as the end of a phrase, the end of a sentence, or a
Line Separator, or upon detecting inactivity. Therefore, the time to switch to present waiting text
from other sources may grow long, and it will vary and depend on the actions of the currently
presented source.

Erasure can only be done up to the latest source switch. If a user tries to erase more text, the
erasing actions will be presented as a letter "X" after the label.

Text loss because of network errors may hit the label between entries from diﬀerent parties,
causing the risk of a misunderstanding regarding which source provided a piece of text.

Because of these facts, it is strongly
in real-time text endpoints. The use of the mixing method for multiparty-unaware endpoints
should be left for use with endpoints that are impossible to upgrade to become multiparty aware.

 that multiparty awareness be implemented

RECOMMENDED

4.2.7.  Example Views of Presentation on Multiparty-Unaware Endpoints

The following pictures are examples of the view on a participant's display for the multiparty-
unaware case.

Figure 3 shows how a coordinated column view
with two columns. The mixer inserts labels to show how the sources alternate in the column with
received text. The mixer alternates between the sources at suitable points in the text exchange so
that text entries from each party can be conveniently read.

 be presented on Alice's device in a view

MAY

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

          ___________________________________________________
         |       Conference        |          Alice          |
         |_________________________|_________________________|
         |                         |I will arrive by TGV.    |
         |[Bob]: My flight is to   |Convenient to the main   |
         |Orly.                    |station.                 |
         |[Eve]: Hi all, can we    |                         |
         |plan for the seminar.    |                         |
         |                         |                         |
         |[Bob]: Eve, will you do  |                         |
         |your presentation on     |                         |
         |Friday?                  |                         |
         |[Eve]: Yes, Friday at 10.|                         |
         |[Bob]: Fine, wo          |We need to meet befo     |
         |_________________________|_________________________|

Figure 3: Alice, Who Has a Conference-Unaware Client, Is Receiving the Multiparty Real-Time Text
in a Single Stream

In Figure 4, there is a tradition in receiving applications to include a label showing the source of
the text, here shown with parentheses "()". The mixer also inserts source labels for the multiparty
call participants, here shown with brackets "[]".

           _________________________________________________
          |                                              |^|
          |(Alice) Hi, Alice here.                       |-|
          |                                              | |
          |(mix)[Bob] Bob as well.                       | |
          |                                              | |
          |[Eve] Hi, this is Eve, calling from Paris     | |
          |      I thought you should be here.           | |
          |                                              | |
          |(Alice) I am coming on Thursday, my           | |
          |      performance is not until Friday morning.| |
          |                                              | |
          |(mix)[Bob] And I on Wednesday evening.        | |
          |                                              | |
          |[Eve] we can have dinner and then walk        | |
          |                                              | |
          |[Eve] But I need to be back to                | |
          |    the hotel by 11 because I need            | |
          |                                              |-|
          |______________________________________________|v|
          | of course, I underst                           |
          |________________________________________________|

Figure 4: An Example of a View of the Multiparty-Unaware Presentation in Chat Style, Where Alice
Is the Local User

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

5.  Relationship to Conference Control

5.1.  Use with SIP Centralized Conferencing Framework

, and

[RFC4575]

The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) conferencing framework, mainly speciﬁed in
,
[RFC4579]
, is suitable for coordinating sessions, including multiparty real-time
text. The real-time text stream between the mixer and a participant is one and the same during
the conference. Participants get announced by notiﬁcations when participants are joining or
leaving, and further user information may be provided. The SSRC of the text to expect from
joined users
purposes and translation to a label for presentation to other users.

 be included in a notiﬁcation. The notiﬁcations

 be used for both security

[RFC4353]

MAY

MAY

5.2.  Conference Control

In managed conferences, control of the real-time text media
way as for other media, e.g., for muting and unmuting by the direction attributes in SDP
.
[RFC8866]

SHOULD

 be provided in the same

Note that ﬂoor control functions may be of value for real-time text users as well as for users of
other media in a conference.

6.  Gateway Considerations

Multiparty real-time text sessions may involve gateways of diﬀerent kinds. Gateways involved in
setting up sessions
combination of the gateway and the remote endpoint beyond the gateway.

 correctly reﬂect the multiparty capability or unawareness of the

SHALL

6.1.  Gateway Considerations with Textphones

One case that may occur is a gateway to the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) for
communication with textphones (e.g., TTYs). Textphones are limited devices with no multiparty
awareness, and it
 therefore be appropriate for the gateway to not indicate multiparty
awareness for that case. Another solution is that the gateway indicates multiparty capability
towards the mixer and includes the multiparty mixer function for multiparty-unaware
endpoints itself. This solution makes it possible to adapt to the functional limitations of the
textphone.

SHOULD

More information on gateways to textphones is found in

.
[RFC5194]

6.2.  Gateway Considerations with WebRTC

Gateway operation between RTP-mixer-based multiparty real-time text and WebRTC-based real-
time text may also be required. Real-time text transport in WebRTC is speciﬁed in

.
[RFC8865]

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

A multiparty bridge may have functionality for communicating via real-time text in both (1) RTP
streams with real-time text and (2) WebRTC T.140 data channels. Other conﬁgurations may
consist of a multiparty bridge with either technology for real-time text transport and a separate
gateway for conversion of the text communication streams between RTP and T.140 data
channels.

In WebRTC, it is assumed that for a multiparty session, one T.140 data channel is established for
each source from a gateway or bridge to each participant. Each participant also has a data
channel with a two-way connection with the gateway or bridge.

A T.140 data channel used for two-way communication is for text from the WebRTC user and
from the bridge or gateway itself to the WebRTC user. The label parameter of this T.140 data
channel is used as the NAME ﬁeld in RTCP to participants on the RTP side. The other T.140 data
channels are only for text from other participants to the WebRTC user.

When a new participant has entered the session with RTP transport of real-time text, a new T.140
data channel
information from the NAME ﬁeld in RTCP on the RTP side.

 be established to WebRTC users with the label parameter composed of

SHOULD

When a new participant has entered the multiparty session with real-time text transport in a
WebRTC T.140 data channel, the new participant
 be announced by a notiﬁcation to RTP
users. The label parameter from the WebRTC side or other suitable information from the session
or stream establishment procedure
 be used to compose the NAME RTCP ﬁeld on the RTP
side.

SHOULD

SHOULD

When a participant on the RTP side is disconnected from the multiparty session, the
corresponding T.140 data channel(s)
SHOULD

 be closed.

When a WebRTC user of T.140 data channels disconnects from the mixer, the corresponding RTP
streams or sources in an RTP-mixed stream
SHOULD

 be closed.

T.140 data channels
by any other valid means, as speciﬁed in

MAY

Section 1 of [RFC8865]

.

 be opened and closed by negotiation or renegotiation of the session, or

7.  Updates to RFC 4103

This document updates
[RFC4103]
negotiation of multiparty-mixing capability with the format described in
specifying the rules for packets when multiparty capability is negotiated and in use.

 by introducing an SDP media attribute, "rtt-mixer", for

[RFC4103]

 and by

8.  Congestion Considerations

The congestion considerations and recommended actions provided in
multiparty situations.

[RFC4103]

 are also valid in

The time values

SHALL

 then be applied per source of text sent to a receiver.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

In the very unlikely event that many participants in a conference send text simultaneously for a
long period of time, a delay may build up for the presentation of text at the receivers if the
limitation in characters per second ("cps") to be transmitted to the participants is exceeded. A
delay of more than 15 seconds can cause confusion in the session. It is therefore
that an RTP mixer discard such text causing excessive delays and insert a general indication of
possible text loss
 in the session. If the main text contributor is indicated in any way,
the mixer
creation of text normally contains pauses, when the transmission can catch up, so that
transmission-overload situations are expected to be very rare.

 avoid deleting text from that participant. It should, however, be noted that human

RECOMMENDED

[T140ad1]

MAY

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  Registration of the "rtt-mixer" SDP Media Attribute

IANA has registered the new SDP attribute "rtt-mixer".

Contact name:

IESG

Contact email:

iesg@ietf.org

Attribute name:

rtt-mixer

Attribute semantics:

See RFC 9071, Section 2.3

Attribute value:

none

Usage level:

media

Purpose:

To indicate mixer and endpoint support of multiparty mixing for real-time text
transmission, using a common RTP stream for transmission of text from a number of sources
mixed with one source at a time and where the source is indicated in a single CSRC-list
member.

Charset Dependent:

no

O/A procedures:

See RFC 9071, Section 2.3

Mux Category:

NORMAL

Reference:

RFC 9071

10.  Security Considerations

The RTP-mixer model requires the mixer to be allowed to decrypt, pack, and encrypt secured text
from conference participants. Therefore, the mixer needs to be trusted to maintain
conﬁdentiality and integrity of the real-time text data. This situation is similar to the situation for
handling audio and video media in centralized mixers.

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

The requirement to transfer information about the user in RTCP reports in SDES, CNAME, and
NAME ﬁelds, and in conference notiﬁcations, may have privacy concerns, as already stated in
RFC 3550
, and may be restricted for privacy reasons. When used for the creation of
readable labels in the presentation, the receiving user will then get a more symbolic label for the
source.

[RFC3550]

The services available through the real-time text mixer may be of special interest to deaf and
hard-of-hearing individuals. Some users may want to refrain from revealing such characteristics
broadly in conferences. Conference systems where the mixer is included
designed with the conﬁdentiality of such characteristics in mind.

 need to be

MAY

Participants with malicious intentions may appear and, for example, disrupt the multiparty
session by emitting a continuous ﬂow of text. They may also send text that appears to originate
from other participants. Countermeasures should include requiring secure signaling, media, and
authentication, and providing higher-layer conference functions, e.g., for blocking, muting, and
expelling participants.

Participants with malicious intentions may also try to disrupt the presentation by sending
incomplete or malformed control codes. Handling of text from the diﬀerent sources by the
receivers
from the source causing the action.

 therefore be well separated so that the eﬀects of such actions only aﬀect text

MUST

Care should be taken to avoid the possibility of attacks by unauthenticated call participants, and
even eavesdropping and manipulation of content by non-participants, if the use of the mixer is
permitted for users both with and without security procedures.

As already stated in Section 3.18, security in media
[RFC5764]

 at the media level.

SHOULD

 be applied by using DTLS-SRTP

Further security considerations speciﬁc to this application are speciﬁed in Section 3.18.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

[ECMA-48]

[ISO6429]

[RFC2119]

Ecma International "ECMA-48: Control functions for coded character sets" 5th
edition
standards/standards/ecma-48/>

,
<https://www.ecma-international.org/publications-and-

, June 1991,

.

,

,

ISO/IEC "Information technology - Control functions for coded character sets"
ISO/IEC ISO/IEC 6429:1992
#iso:std:iso-iec:6429:ed-3:v1:en>

<https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/

, December 1992,

.

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

[RFC3550]

[RFC4102]

[RFC4103]

[RFC5630]

[RFC5764]

[RFC6263]

[RFC7675]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8865]

[RFC8866]

[T140]

[T140ad1]

,

Schulzrinne, H. Casner, S. Frederick, R.
Protocol for Real-Time Applications" STD 64 RFC 3550 DOI 10.17487/RFC3550
July 2003,

V. Jacobson "RTP: A Transport
, and
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3550>

,

,

,

,

.

,

,
Jones, P. "Registration of the text/red MIME Sub-Type" RFC 4102 DOI 10.17487/
, June 2005,
RFC4102

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4102>

.

,

,

 and
Hellstrom, G.
10.17487/RFC4103

,

P. Jones "RTP Payload for Text Conversation" RFC 4103 DOI
, June 2005,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4103>

.

,

,

,

Audet, F. "The Use of the SIPS URI Scheme in the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP)" RFC 5630 DOI 10.17487/RFC5630
editor.org/info/rfc5630>

<https://www.rfc-

, October 2009,

,

,

.

 and

E. Rescorla "Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS)

McGrew, D.
Extension to Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)"
RFC 5764 DOI 10.17487/RFC5764
rfc5764>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2010,

,
.

,

,

 and

Marjou, X.
A. Sollaud "Application Mechanism for Keeping Alive the NAT
Mappings Associated with RTP / RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Flows" RFC 6263
DOI 10.17487/RFC6263

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6263>

, June 2011,

.

,

,

,

,

,
Perumal, M. Wing, D. Ravindranath, R. Reddy, T.
Traversal Utilities for NAT (STUN) Usage for Consent Freshness" RFC 7675 DOI
10.17487/RFC7675

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7675>

M. Thomson "Session

, October 2015,

, and

,

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

 and

Holmberg, C.
WebRTC Data Channels" RFC 8865 DOI 10.17487/RFC8865
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8865>

G. Hellström "T.140 Real-Time Text Conversation over

, January 2021,

,

,

,

.

,
Begen, A. Kyzivat, P. Perkins, C.
,
Protocol" RFC 8866 DOI 10.17487/RFC8866
editor.org/info/rfc8866>

, and

,
,

.

M. Handley "SDP: Session Description
<https://www.rfc-

, January 2021,

,

,

ITU-T "Protocol for multimedia application text conversation" ITU-T
Recommendation T.140
T.140-199802-I/en>

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-

, February 1998,

.

,

,

ITU-T "Recommendation T.140 Addendum"
rec/T-REC-T.140-200002-I!Add1/en>

.

, February 2000,

<https://www.itu.int/

11.2.  Informative References

[RFC4353]

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9071

RTP-Mixer Format for Multiparty RTT

July 2021

,

Rosenberg, J. "A Framework for Conferencing with the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)" RFC 4353 DOI 10.17487/RFC4353
<https://
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4353>

, February 2006,

,

,

.

,

Rosenberg, J. Schulzrinne, H.
(SIP) Event Package for Conference State" RFC 4575 DOI 10.17487/RFC4575
August 2006,

O. Levin, Ed. "A Session Initiation Protocol
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4575>

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

O. Levin "Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Call Control -
Johnston, A.
Conferencing for User Agents" BCP 119 RFC 4579 DOI 10.17487/RFC4579
August 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4579>

,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

G. Gybels, Ed. "Framework for Real-Time Text over IP
van Wijk, A., Ed.
Using the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)" RFC 5194 DOI 10.17487/RFC5194
June 2008,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5194>

,
.

,

,

,

Westerlund, M.
RFC7667

 and
, November 2015,

S. Wenger "RTP Topologies" RFC 7667 DOI 10.17487/
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7667>

,

,

,

.

,

Johnston, A. Aboba, B. Hutton, A. Jesske, R.
Approach for Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (OSRTP)" RFC 8643 DOI
.
10.17487/RFC8643

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8643>

T. Stach "An Opportunistic

, August 2019,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

Jennings, C. Jones, P. Barnes, R.
for the Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol (SRTP)" RFC 8723 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8723

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8723>

A.B. Roach "Double Encryption Procedures

, April 2020,

, and

,

,

,

,

,
Alvestrand, H. "Overview: Real-Time Protocols for Browser-Based Applications"
, January 2021,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 8825 DOI 10.17487/RFC8825
rfc8825>

,
.

[RFC4575]

[RFC4579]

[RFC5194]

[RFC7667]

[RFC8643]

[RFC8723]

[RFC8825]

Acknowledgements

,

The author wants to thank the following persons for support, reviews, and valuable comments:
Bernard Aboba Amanda Baber Roman Danyliw Spencer Dawkins Martin Duke Lars Eggert
,
James Hamlin Benjamin Kaduk Murray Kucherawy Paul Kyzivat Jonathan Lennox Lorenzo
Miniero Dan Mongrain Francesca Palombini Colin Perkins Brian Rosen Rich Salz Jürgen
,
Schönwälder Robert Wilton Dale Worley Yong Xin

Peter Yee
.

, and

,
,

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Author's Address

Gunnar Hellström
Gunnar Hellström Accessible Communication
SE-
Sweden
Email:

 gunnar.hellstrom@ghaccess.se

13670 Vendelsö

Hellström

Standards Track

Page 35

