Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9079
Standards Track
August 2021
2070-1721
M. Boutier
IRIF, University of Paris

J. Chroboczek
IRIF, University of Paris

RFC 9079
Source-Speciﬁc Routing in the Babel Routing
Protocol

Abstract

Source-speciﬁc routing, also known as Source Address Dependent Routing (SADR), is an
extension to traditional next-hop routing where packets are forwarded according to both their
destination address and their source address. This document describes an extension for source-
speciﬁc routing to the Babel routing protocol.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9079

.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2021 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Simpliﬁed BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Simpliﬁed BSD License.

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9079

Source-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel

August 2021

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction and Background

1.1.  Application to Multihoming

1.2.  Other Applications

1.3.  Speciﬁcity of Preﬁx Pairs

2.  Speciﬁcation of Requirements

3.  Data Structures

3.1.  The Source Table

3.2.  The Route Table

3.3.  The Table of Pending Seqno Requests

4.  Data Forwarding

5.  Protocol Operation

5.1.  Protocol Messages

5.2.  Wildcard Messages

6.  Compatibility with the Base Protocol

6.1.  Starvation and Blackholes

7.  Protocol Encoding

7.1.  Source Preﬁx Sub-TLV

7.2.  Source-Speciﬁc Update

7.3.  Source-Speciﬁc Route Request

7.4.  Source-Speciﬁc Seqno Request

8.  IANA Considerations

9.  Security Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9079

Source-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel

August 2021

1.  Introduction and Background

[RFC8966]

 is a distance vector routing protocol for next-hop routing.

The Babel routing protocol
In next-hop routing, each node maintains a forwarding table that maps destination preﬁxes to
next hops. The forwarding decision is a per-packet operation that depends on the destination
address of the packets and on the entries of the forwarding table. When a packet is about to be
routed, its destination address is compared to the preﬁxes of the routing table: the entry with the
most speciﬁc preﬁx containing the destination address of the packet is chosen, and the packet is
forwarded to the associated next hop. Next-hop routing is a simple, well-understood paradigm
that works satisfactorily in a large number of cases.

The use of next-hop routing limits the ﬂexibility of the routing system in two ways. First, since
the routing decision is local to each router, a router A can only select a route ABC...Z if its
neighbouring router B has selected the route BC...Z. Second, the only criterion used by a router to
choose a route is the destination address: two packets with the same destination follow the same
route. Yet, there are other data in the IP header that could conceivably be used to guide the
routing decision -- the Type of Service (ToS) octet and, of course, the source address.

[SS-ROUTING]

Source-speciﬁc routing
extension to next-hop routing where the forwarding decision depends not only on the
destination address but also on the source address of the packet being routed, which makes it
possible for two packets with the same destination but diﬀerent source addresses to be routed
following diﬀerent paths.

, or Source Address Dependent Routing (SADR), is a modest

This document describes a source-speciﬁc routing extension for the Babel routing protocol
. This involves minor changes to the data structures, which must include a source
[RFC8966]
preﬁx in addition to the destination preﬁx already present, and some changes to the Update,
Route Request, and Seqno Request TLVs, which are extended with a source preﬁx. The source
preﬁx is encoded using a mandatory sub-TLV (

[RFC8966], Section 4.4

).

1.1.  Application to Multihoming

Multihoming is the practice of connecting a single network to two or more transit networks. The
main application of source-speciﬁc routing is a form of multihoming known as "multihoming
with multiple addresses".

Classical multihoming consists of assigning a provider-independent range of addresses to the
multihomed network and announcing it to all transit providers. While classical multihoming
works well for large networks, the cost of obtaining a provider-independent address range and
announcing it globally in the Internet is prohibitive for small networks. Unfortunately, it is not
possible to implement classical multihoming with ordinary provider-dependent addresses: in a
network connected to two providers A and B, a packet with a source address allocated by A
needs to be routed through the edge router connected to A. If it is routed through the edge router
connected to B, it will most likely be ﬁltered (dropped), in accordance with

[BCP84]

.

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9079

Source-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel

August 2021

In multihoming with multiple addresses, every host in the multihomed network is assigned
multiple addresses, one for each transit provider. Additional mechanisms are needed in order (i)
to choose, for each packet, a source address that is associated with a provider that is currently
up, and (ii) to route each packet towards the router connected to the provider associated with its
source address. One might argue that multihoming with multiple addresses splits the diﬃcult
problem of multihoming into two simpler sub-problems.

The issue of choosing a suitable source address is a decision local to the sending host and is an
area of active research. The simplest solution is to use a traditional transport-layer protocol, such
as TCP, and to probe all available source addresses at connection time, analogously to what is
already done with destination addresses, either sequentially
Since the transport-layer protocol is not aware of the multiple available addresses, ﬂows are
interrupted when the selected provider goes down (from the point of view of the user, all TCP
connections are dropped when the network environment changes). A better user experience can
be provided by making all of the potential source and destination addresses available to higher-
layer protocols, either at the transport layer
.
[RFC8445]

 or at the application layer

[RFC8684] [RFC4960]

 or in parallel

.
[RFC8305]

[RFC6724]

Source-speciﬁc routing solves the problem of routing a packet to the edge router indicated by its
source address. Every edge router announces into the routing domain a default route speciﬁc to
the preﬁx associated with the provider it is connected to. This route is propagated all the way to
the routers on the access link, which are therefore able to route every packet to the correct
router. Hosts simply send packets to their default router -- no host changes are necessary at the
network layer.

1.2.  Other Applications

In addition to multihoming with multiple addresses, we are aware of two applications of source-
speciﬁc routing. Tunnels and VPNs are packet encapsulation techniques that are commonly used
in the Internet to establish a network-layer topology that is diﬀerent from the physical topology.
In some deployments, the default route points at the tunnel; this causes the network stack to
attempt to send encapsulated packets through the tunnel, which causes it to break. Various
solutions to this problem are possible, the most common of which is to point a host route at the
tunnel endpoint.

When source-speciﬁc routing is available, it becomes possible to announce through the tunnel a
default route that is speciﬁc to the preﬁx served by the tunnel. Since the encapsulated packets
have a source address that is not within that preﬁx, they are not routed through the tunnel.

The third application of source-speciﬁc routing is controlled anycast. Anycast is a technique in
which a single destination address is used to represent multiple network endpoints, collectively
called an "anycast group". A packet destined to the anycast group is routed to an arbitrary
member of the group, typically the one that is nearest according to the routing protocol.

In many applications of anycast, such as DNS root servers, the nondeterminism of anycast is
acceptable; some applications, however, require ﬁner control. For example, in some Content
Distribution Networks (CDNs), every endpoint is expected to handle a well-deﬁned subset of the

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9079

Source-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel

August 2021

client population. With source-speciﬁc routing, it is possible for each member of the anycast
group to announce a route speciﬁc to its client population, a technique that is both simpler and
more robust than manually tweaking the routing protocol's metric ("prepending" in BGP).

1.3.  Speciﬁcity of Preﬁx Pairs

In ordinary next-hop routing, when multiple routing table entries match the destination of a
packet, the "longest preﬁx rule" mandates that the most speciﬁc entry applies. The reason why
this rule makes sense is that the set of preﬁxes has the following "tree property":

For any preﬁxes P and P', either P and P' are disjoint, or one is more speciﬁc than the other.

It would be a natural proposition to order pairs of preﬁxes pointwise: to deﬁne that (D,S) is more
speciﬁc than (D',S') when D is more speciﬁc than D and S is more speciﬁc than S'. Unfortunately,
the set of pairs of preﬁxes with the pointwise ordering doesn't satisfy the tree property. Indeed,
consider the following two pairs:

(2001:db8:0:1::/64, ::/0) and (::/0, 2001:db8:0:2::/64)

These two pairs are not disjoint (a packet with destination 2001:db8:0:1::1 and source
2001:db8:0:2::1 is matched by both), but neither is more speciﬁc than the other. The eﬀect is that
there is no natural, unambiguous way to interpret a routing table such as the following:

          destination                source     next-hop
    2001:db8:0:1::/64                  ::/0            A
                 ::/0     2001:db8:0:2::/64            B

A ﬁner ordering of pairs of preﬁxes is required in order to avoid all ambiguities. There are two
natural choices: destination-ﬁrst ordering, where (D,S) is more speciﬁc than (D',S') when

•

D is strictly more speciﬁc than D', or

•

D = D', and S is more speciﬁc than S'

and, symmetrically, source-ﬁrst ordering, in which sources are compared ﬁrst and destinations
second.

Expedient as it would be to leave the choice to the implementation, this is not possible: all
routers in a routing domain must use the same ordering lest persistent routing loops occur.
Indeed, consider the following topology:

   A --- B --- C --- D

Suppose that A announces a route for (::/0, 2001:db8:0:2::/64), while D announces a route for
(2001:db8:0:1::/64, ::/0). Suppose further that B uses destination-ﬁrst ordering while C uses
source-ﬁrst ordering. Then a packet that matches both routes, say, with destination
2001:db8:0:1::1 and source 2001:db8:0:2::1, would be sent by B towards D and by C towards A and
would therefore loop indeﬁnitely between B and C.

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9079

Source-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel

August 2021

This document mandates (Section 4) that all routers use destination-ﬁrst ordering, which is
generally believed to be more useful than source-ﬁrst ordering. Consider the following topology,
where A is an edge router connected to the Internet and B is an internal router connected to an
access network N:

  (::/0, S)             (D, ::/0)
   Internet --- A --- B --- N

A announces a source-speciﬁc default route with source S (::/0, S), while B announces a
nonspeciﬁc route to preﬁx D. Consider what happens to a packet with a destination in D and a
source in S. With destination-ﬁrst ordering, the packet is routed towards the network N, which is
the only way it can possibly reach its destination. With source-ﬁrst ordering, on the other hand,
the packet is sent towards the Internet, with no hope of ever reaching its destination in N.

2.  Speciﬁcation of Requirements

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Data Structures

A number of the conceptual data structures described in
destination preﬁx. This speciﬁcation extends these data structures with a source preﬁx. Data
from the original protocol, which do not specify a source preﬁx, are stored with a zero-length
source preﬁx, which matches the exact same set of packets as the original, non-source-speciﬁc
data.

Section 3.2 of [RFC8966]

 contain a

3.1.  The Source Table

Every Babel node maintains a source table, as described in
speciﬁc Babel node extends this table with the following ﬁeld:

[RFC8966], Section 3.2.5

. A source-

•

The source preﬁx (spreﬁx, splen) specifying the source address of packets to which this entry
applies.

The source table is now indexed by 5-tuples of the form (preﬁx, plen, spreﬁx, splen, router-id).

Note that the route entry contains a source (see Sections 2 and 3.2.5 of
contains both destination and source preﬁxes. These are two diﬀerent concepts and must not be
confused.

) that itself

[RFC8966]

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9079

Source-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel

August 2021

3.2.  The Route Table

Every Babel node maintains a route table, as described in
table entry contains, among other data, a source, which this speciﬁcation extends with a source
preﬁx as described above. The route table is now indexed by 5-tuples of the form (preﬁx, plen,
spreﬁx, splen, neighbour), where the ﬁrst four components are obtained from the source.

[RFC8966], Section 3.2.6

. Each route

3.3.  The Table of Pending Seqno Requests

Every Babel node maintains a table of pending seqno requests, as described in
3.2.7

. A source-speciﬁc Babel node extends this table with the following entry:

[RFC8966], Section

•

The source preﬁx (spreﬁx, splen) being requested.

The table of pending seqno requests is now indexed by 5-tuples of the form (preﬁx, plen, spreﬁx,
splen, router-id).

4.  Data Forwarding

As noted in Section 1.3, source-speciﬁc tables can, in general, be ambiguous, and all routers in a
routing domain must use the same algorithm for choosing applicable routes. An implementation
of the extension described in this document
MUST
destination-ﬁrst ordering, where routing table entry R1 is preferred to routing table entry R2
when either R1's destination preﬁx is more speciﬁc than R2's or the destination preﬁxes are
equal and R1's source preﬁx is more speciﬁc than R2's.

 choose routing table entries by using

In practice, this means that a source-speciﬁc Babel implementation must take care that any lower
layer that performs packet forwarding obey these semantics. More precisely:

•

if the lower layers implement destination-ﬁrst ordering, then the Babel implementation
SHOULD

 use them directly;

•

if the lower layers can hold source-speciﬁc routes but not with the right semantics, then the
Babel implementation
the routing table by using a suitable disambiguation algorithm (see Section V.B of
ROUTING]

 either silently ignore any source-speciﬁc routes or disambiguate

 for such an algorithm);

MUST

[SS-

•

if the lower layers cannot hold source-speciﬁc routes, then a Babel implementation
silently ignore any source-speciﬁc routes.

MUST

5.  Protocol Operation

This extension does not fundamentally change the operation of the Babel protocol, and we
therefore only describe diﬀerences between the original protocol and the extended protocol.

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9079

Source-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel

August 2021

In the original protocol, three TLVs carry a destination preﬁx: Update, Route Request, and Seqno
Request TLVs. This speciﬁcation extends these messages so that they may carry a Source Preﬁx
sub-TLV, as described in Section 7. The sub-TLV is marked as mandatory so that an unextended
implementation will silently ignore the whole enclosing TLV. A node obeying this speciﬁcation
MUST NOT
Preﬁx sub-TLV. Conversely, an extended implementation
 interpret an unextended TLV as
carrying a source preﬁx of zero length. Taken together, these properties ensure interoperability
between the original and extended protocols (see Section 6).

 send a TLV with a zero-length source preﬁx; instead, it sends a TLV with no Source

MUST

5.1.  Protocol Messages

This extension allows three TLVs of the original Babel protocol to carry a source preﬁx: Update
TLVs, Route Request TLVs, and Seqno Request TLVs.

In order to advertise a route with a non-zero length source preﬁx, a node sends a source-speciﬁc
update, i.e., an update with a Source Preﬁx sub-TLV. When a node receives a source-speciﬁc
update (preﬁx, source preﬁx, router-id, seqno, metric) from a neighbour neigh, it behaves as
described in
, except that the entry under consideration is indexed by
(preﬁx, plen, spreﬁx, splen, neigh) rather than just (preﬁx, plen, neigh).

[RFC8966], Section 3.5.3

Similarly, when a node needs to send a request of either kind that applies to a route with a non-
zero length source preﬁx, it sends a source-speciﬁc request, i.e., a request with a Source Preﬁx
sub-TLV. When a node receives a source-speciﬁc request, it behaves as described in
[RFC8966]
indicated by the Source Preﬁx sub-TLV.

, except that the request applies to the route table entry carrying the source preﬁx

Section 3.8 of

5.2.  Wildcard Messages

In the original protocol, the address encoding (AE) value 0 is used for wildcard messages:
messages that apply to all routes of any address family and with any destination preﬁx. Wildcard
messages are allowed in two places in the protocol: wildcard retractions are used to retract all of
the routes previously advertised by a node on a given interface, and wildcard route requests are
used to request a full dump of the route table from a given node. Wildcard messages are
intended to apply to all routes, including routes decorated with additional data and AE values to
be deﬁned by future extensions; hence, this speciﬁcation extends wildcard operations to apply to
all routes, whatever the value of the source preﬁx.

More precisely, a node receiving an update with the AE ﬁeld set to 0 and the Metric ﬁeld set to
inﬁnity (a wildcard retraction)
3.5.3 of [RFC8966]
value of the source preﬁx. A node
preﬁx, and a node that receives a wildcard retraction with a source preﬁx
retraction.

 to all of the routes that it has learned from the sending node, whatever the

 apply the route acquisition procedure described in

 send a wildcard retraction with an attached source

 ignore the

MUST NOT

Section

MUST

MUST

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9079

Source-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel

August 2021

 send a full routing table dump, including routes with a non-zero length source preﬁx. A

Similarly, a node that receives a route request with the AE ﬁeld set to 0 (a wildcard route request)
SHOULD
node
wildcard request with a source preﬁx

 send a wildcard request that carries a source preﬁx, and a node receiving a
 ignore the request.

MUST NOT

MUST

6.  Compatibility with the Base Protocol

The protocol extension deﬁned in this document is, to a great extent, interoperable with the base
protocol deﬁned in
 (and all previously standardised extensions). More precisely, if
non-source-speciﬁc routers and source-speciﬁc routers are mixed in a single routing domain,
Babel's loop-avoidance properties are preserved, and, in particular, no persistent routing loops
will occur.

[RFC8966]

However, this extension is encoded using mandatory sub-TLVs, introduced in
therefore is not compatible with the older version of the Babel routing protocol
does not support mandatory sub-TLVs. Consequently, this extension
routing domain in which some routers implement
may occur.

[RFC6126]

MUST NOT

[RFC8966]

, and

[RFC6126]
 be used in a

, which

; otherwise, persistent routing loops

6.1.  Starvation and Blackholes

In general, the discarding of source-speciﬁc routes by non-source-speciﬁc routers will cause
route starvation. Intuitively, unless there are enough non-source-speciﬁc routes in the network,
non-source-speciﬁc routers will suﬀer starvation and discard packets for destinations that are
only announced by source-speciﬁc routers.

In the common case where all source-speciﬁc routes are originated at one of a small set of edge
routers, a simple yet suﬃcient condition for avoiding starvation is to build a connected source-
speciﬁc backbone that includes all of the edge routers and announce a non-source-speciﬁc
default route towards the backbone.

7.  Protocol Encoding

This extension deﬁnes a new sub-TLV used to carry a source preﬁx: the Source Preﬁx sub-TLV. It
can be used within an Update, Route Request, or Seqno Request TLV to match a source-speciﬁc
entry of the route table in conjunction with the destination preﬁx natively carried by these TLVs.

Since a source-speciﬁc routing entry is characterised by a single destination preﬁx and a single
source preﬁx, a source-speciﬁc message contains exactly one Source Preﬁx sub-TLV. A node
NOT
Source Preﬁx sub-TLV in a single TLV

 send more than one Source Preﬁx sub-TLV in a TLV, and a node receiving more than one

 ignore the whole packet.

 ignore the TLV. It

MUST

MAY

MUST

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9079

Source-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel

August 2021

7.1.  Source Preﬁx Sub-TLV

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|   Type = 128  |    Length     |  Source Plen  | Source Prefix...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-

Fields:

Type

Set to 128 to indicate a Source Preﬁx sub-TLV.

Length

The length of the body, in octets, exclusive of the Type and Length ﬁelds.

Source Plen

The length of the advertised source preﬁx, in bits. This

MUST NOT

 be 0.

Source Preﬁx

The source preﬁx being advertised. This ﬁeld's size is (Source Plen)/8 octets
rounded upwards.

The length of the body TLV is normally of size 1+(Source Plen)/8 rounded upwards. If the Length
ﬁeld indicates a length smaller than that, then the sub-TLV is corrupt, and the whole enclosing
TLV must be ignored; if the Length ﬁeld indicates a length that is larger, then the extra octets
contained in the sub-TLV

 be silently ignored.

MUST

The contents of the Source Preﬁx sub-TLV are interpreted according to the AE of the enclosing
TLV. If a TLV with AE equal to 0 contains a Source Preﬁx sub-TLV, then the whole enclosing TLV
 be ignored. If a TLV contains multiple Source Preﬁx sub-TLVs, then the whole TLV
MUST
ignored.

MUST

 be

Note that this sub-TLV is a mandatory sub-TLV. Therefore, as described in
[RFC8966]

 be ignored if that sub-TLV is not understood (or malformed).

, the whole TLV

Section 4.4 of

MUST

7.2.  Source-Speciﬁc Update

The source-speciﬁc update is an Update TLV with a Source Preﬁx sub-TLV. It advertises or
retracts source-speciﬁc routes in the same manner as routes with non-source-speciﬁc updates
(see
[RFC8966]
Preﬁx sub-TLV.

). A wildcard retraction (update with AE equal to 0)

 carry a Source

MUST NOT

Babel uses a stateful compression scheme to reduce the size taken by destination preﬁxes in
Update TLVs (see
). The source preﬁx deﬁned by this extension is not
compressed. On the other hand, compression is allowed for the destination preﬁxes carried by
, unextended implementations
source-speciﬁc updates. As described in
will correctly update their parser state while otherwise ignoring the whole TLV.

Section 4.5 of [RFC8966]

Section 4.5 of [RFC8966]

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9079

Source-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel

August 2021

7.3.  Source-Speciﬁc Route Request

A source-speciﬁc route request is a Route Request TLV with a Source Preﬁx sub-TLV. It prompts
the receiver to send an update for a given pair of destination and source preﬁxes, as described in
Section 3.8.1.1 of [RFC8966]
MUST NOT
carry a Source Preﬁx sub-TLV; if a wildcard request with a Source Preﬁx sub-TLV is received,
then the request

. A wildcard request (route request with AE equal to 0)

 be ignored.

MUST

7.4.  Source-Speciﬁc Seqno Request

A source-speciﬁc seqno request is a Seqno Request TLV with a Source Preﬁx sub-TLV. It requests
that the receiving node perform the procedure described in
applied to a pair consisting of a destination and source preﬁx.

Section 3.8.1.2 of [RFC8966]

 but

8.  IANA Considerations

IANA has allocated sub-TLV number 128 for the Source Preﬁx sub-TLV in the "Babel Sub-TLV
Types" registry.

9.  Security Considerations

The extension deﬁned in this document adds a new sub-TLV to three sub-TLVs already present in
the original Babel protocol and does not change the security properties of the protocol itself.
However, the additional ﬂexibility provided by source-speciﬁc routing might invalidate the
assumptions made by some network administrators, which could conceivably lead to security
issues.

) as a security mechanism. Unless the ﬁltering rules are designed to take source-

For example, a network administrator might be tempted to abuse route ﬁltering (
[RFC8966]
speciﬁc routing into account, they might be bypassed by a source-speciﬁc route, which might
cause traﬃc to reach a portion of a network that was thought to be protected. A network
administrator might also assume that no route is more speciﬁc than a host route and use a host
route in order to direct traﬃc for a given destination through a security device (e.g., a ﬁrewall);
source-speciﬁc routing invalidates this assumption, and, in some topologies, announcing a
source-speciﬁc route might conceivably be used to bypass the security device.

Appendix C of

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[BCP84]

Baker, F.
RFC 3704

 and
,
, March 2004.

P. Savola "Ingress Filtering for Multihomed Networks" BCP 84

,

,

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9079

Source-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel

August 2021

Sriram, K. Montgomery, D.
, and
Reverse Path Forwarding" BCP 84 RFC 8704
,

J. Haas "Enhanced Feasible-Path Unicast
, February 2020.

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp84>

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8966]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
, March 1997,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

Chroboczek, J.
10.17487/RFC8966

 and

D. Schinazi "The Babel Routing Protocol" RFC 8966 DOI
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8966>

, January 2021,

,

,

,

10.2.  Informative References

[RFC4960]

[RFC6126]

[RFC6724]

[RFC8305]

[RFC8445]

[RFC8684]

[SS-ROUTING]

Stewart, R., Ed. "Stream Control Transmission Protocol" RFC 4960 DOI
10.17487/RFC4960

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4960>

, September 2007,

,

,

.

Chroboczek, J. "The Babel Routing Protocol" RFC 6126 DOI 10.17487/RFC6126
April 2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6126>

.

,

,

,

,

,

T. Chown "Default Address
Thaler, D., Ed. Draves, R. Matsumoto, A.
Selection for Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)" RFC 6724 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6724

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6724>

, September 2012,

, and

,

,

,

.

T. Pauly "Happy Eyeballs Version 2: Better Connectivity Using

,
Schinazi, D.
,
Concurrency" RFC 8305 DOI 10.17487/RFC8305
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8305>

 and
,

.

, December 2017,

<https://

, and

,
J. Rosenberg "Interactive Connectivity
Keranen, A. Holmberg, C.
Establishment (ICE): A Protocol for Network Address Translator (NAT)
,
,
Traversal" RFC 8445 DOI 10.17487/RFC8445
editor.org/info/rfc8445>

, July 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

.

,

Ford, A. Raiciu, C. Handley, M. Bonaventure, O.
for Multipath Operation with Multiple Addresses" RFC 8684 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8684

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8684>

, March 2020,

, and
,

C. Paasch "TCP Extensions

,

,

,

,

.

 and
Boutier, M.
,
Conference DOI 10.1109/IFIPNetworking.2015.7145305
arxiv.org/pdf/1403.0445>

J. Chroboczek "Source-Speciﬁc Routing" IFIP Networking
<http://

, May 2015,

,

,

.

Acknowledgments

The authors are indebted to
help with this document.

Donald Eastlake Joel Halpern

,

, and

Toke Hoiland-Jorgensen

 for their

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9079

Source-Speciﬁc Routing in Babel

August 2021

Authors' Addresses

Matthieu Boutier
IRIF, University of Paris
Case 7014
75205 Paris Cedex 13
France
Email:

 boutier@irif.fr

Juliusz Chroboczek
IRIF, University of Paris
Case 7014
75205 Paris Cedex 13
France
Email:

 jch@irif.fr

Boutier & Chroboczek

Standards Track

Page 13

