Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9240
Standards Track
July 2022
2070-1721
W. Roome
Nokia Bell Labs

S. Randriamasy
Nokia Bell Labs

K. Gao
Sichuan University

Y. Yang
Yale University

J. Zhang
Tongji University

RFC 9240
An Extension for Application-Layer Traﬃc
Optimization (ALTO): Entity Property Maps

Abstract

This document speciﬁes an extension to the base Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)
Protocol that generalizes the concept of "endpoint properties", which have been tied to IP
addresses so far, to entities deﬁned by a wide set of objects. Further, these properties are
presented as maps, similar to the network and cost maps in the base ALTO Protocol. While
supporting the endpoints and related Endpoint Property Service deﬁned in RFC 7285, the ALTO
Protocol is extended in two major directions. First, from endpoints restricted to IP addresses to
entities covering a wider and extensible set of objects; second, from properties for speciﬁc
endpoints to entire entity property maps. These extensions introduce additional features that
allow entities and property values to be speciﬁc to a given information resource. This is made
possible by a generic and ﬂexible design of entity and property types.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

.
https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9240

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identiﬁed as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

) in eﬀect on the date of publication of this

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Terminology and Notation

2.  Requirements Language

3.  Basic Features of the Entity Property Map Extension

3.1.  Entity

3.2.  Entity Domain

3.2.1.  Entity Domain Type

3.2.2.  Entity Domain Name

3.3.  Entity Property Type

3.4.  New Information Resource and Media Type: ALTO Property Map

4.  Advanced Features of the Entity Property Map Extension

4.1.  Entity Identiﬁer and Entity Domain Name

4.2.  Resource-Speciﬁc Entity Domain Name

4.3.  Resource-Speciﬁc Entity Property Value

4.4.  Entity Hierarchy and Property Inheritance

4.4.1.  Entity Hierarchy

4.4.2.  Property Inheritance

4.4.3.  Property Value Unicity

4.5.  Supported Properties for Entity Domains in Property Map Capabilities

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

4.6.  Deﬁning Information Resource for Resource-Speciﬁc Entity Domains

4.6.1.  Deﬁning Information Resource and Its Media Type

4.6.2.  Examples of Deﬁning Information Resources and Their Media Types

4.7.  Deﬁning Information Resources for Resource-Speciﬁc Property Values

5.  Protocol Speciﬁcation: Basic Data Types

5.1.  Entity Domain

5.1.1.  Entity Domain Type

5.1.2.  Entity Domain Name

5.1.3.  Entity Identiﬁer

5.1.4.  Hierarchy and Inheritance

5.2.  Entity Property

5.2.1.  Entity Property Type

5.2.2.  Entity Property Name

5.2.3.  Format for Entity Property Value

6.  Entity Domain Types Deﬁned in This Document

6.1.  Internet Address Domain Types

6.1.1.  Entity Domain Type: IPv4

6.1.2.  Entity Domain Type: IPv6

6.1.3.  Hierarchy and Inheritance of Internet Address Domains

6.1.4.  Deﬁning Information Resource Media Type for Domain Types IPv4 and IPv6

6.2.  Entity Domain Type: PID

6.2.1.  Entity Domain Type Identiﬁer

6.2.2.  Domain-Speciﬁc Entity Identiﬁers

6.2.3.  Hierarchy and Inheritance

6.2.4.  Deﬁning Information Resource Media Type for Domain Type PID

6.2.5.  Relationship To Internet Addresses Domains

6.3.  Internet Address Properties vs. PID Properties

7.  Property Map

7.1.  Media Type

7.2.  HTTP Method

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

7.3.  Accept Input Parameters

7.4.  Capabilities

7.5.  Uses

7.6.  Response

8.  Filtered Property Map

8.1.  Media Type

8.2.  HTTP Method

8.3.  Accept Input Parameters

8.4.  Capabilities

8.5.  Uses

8.6.  Filtered Property Map Response

8.7.  Entity Property Type Deﬁned in This Document

8.7.1.  Entity Property Type: pid

9.  Impact on Legacy ALTO Servers and ALTO Clients

9.1.  Impact on Endpoint Property Service

9.2.  Impact on Resource-Speciﬁc Properties

9.3.  Impact on Other Properties

10. Examples

10.1.  Network Map

10.2.  Property Deﬁnitions

10.3.  Information Resource Directory (IRD)

10.4.  Full Property Map Example

10.5.  Filtered Property Map Example #1

10.6.  Filtered Property Map Example #2

10.7.  Filtered Property Map Example #3

10.8.  Filtered Property Map Example #4

10.9.  Filtered Property Map for ANEs Example #5

11. Security Considerations

12. IANA Considerations

12.1.  application/alto-propmap+json Media Type

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

12.2.  alto-propmapparams+json Media Type

12.3.  ALTO Entity Domain Types Registry

12.3.1.  Consistency Procedure between ALTO Address Types Registry and ALTO Entity

Domain Types Registry

12.3.2.  ALTO Entity Domain Type Registration Process

12.4.  ALTO Entity Property Types Registry

13. References

13.1.  Normative References

13.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Features Introduced with the Entity Property Maps Extension

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

[RFC7285]

The ALTO Protocol
addresses". It also deﬁnes the Endpoint Property Service (EPS) to allow ALTO clients to retrieve
those properties. While useful, the EPS as deﬁned in
are elaborated here.

 introduces the concept of "properties" attached to "endpoint

 has at least three limitations, which

[RFC7285]

First, the EPS allows properties to be associated only with endpoints that are identiﬁed by
individual communication addresses like IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. It is reasonable to think that
collections of endpoints identiﬁed by Provider-Deﬁned Identiﬁers (PIDs) may also have
properties. Furthermore, recent ALTO use cases show that properties of entities such as Abstract
Network Elements as deﬁned in
restricted to individual endpoints and cannot be applied to those entities.

 are also useful. However, the current EPS is

[PATH-VECTOR]

Second, the EPS only allows endpoints identiﬁed by global communication addresses. However,
an endpoint address may be a local IP address or an anycast IP address that may not be globally
unique. Additionally, an entity such as a PID may have an identiﬁer that is not globally unique.
That is, the same PID may be used in multiple network maps, while in each network map, this PID
points to a diﬀerent set of addresses.

Section 11.4 of [RFC7285]

, the EPS is only deﬁned as a POST-mode service. ALTO clients

Third, in
must request the properties for an explicit set of endpoint addresses. By contrast,
 deﬁnes a GET-mode cost map resource that returns all available costs, so an ALTO
[RFC7285]
Client can retrieve a full set of costs once and then process cost lookups without querying the
ALTO server.

 does not deﬁne a similar service for endpoint properties. At ﬁrst, a map of

Section 11.2.3 of

[RFC7285]

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

endpoint properties might seem impractical because it could require enumerating the property
value for every possible endpoint. In particular, the number of endpoint addresses involved by
an ALTO server can be quite large. To avoid enumerating a large number of endpoint addresses
ineﬃciently, the ALTO server might deﬁne properties for a suﬃciently large subset of endpoints
and then use an aggregation representation to reference endpoints in order to allow eﬃcient
enumeration. This is particularly true if blocks of endpoint addresses with a common preﬁx have
the same value for a property. Entities in other domains may very well allow aggregated
representation and hence be enumerable as well.

To address these three limitations, this document speciﬁes an ALTO Protocol extension for
deﬁning and retrieving ALTO properties:

•

The ﬁrst limitation is addressed by introducing a generic concept called ALTO entity, which
generalizes an endpoint and may represent a PID, a network element, a cell in a cellular
network, an Abstract Network Element
, or other physical or logical objects
involved in a network topology. Each entity is included in a collection called an ALTO entity
domain. Since each ALTO entity domain includes only one type of entity, each entity domain
can be classiﬁed by the type of enclosed entities.

[PATH-VECTOR]

•

The second limitation is addressed by using resource-speciﬁc entity domains. A resource-
speciﬁc entity domain contains entities that are deﬁned and identiﬁed with respect to a
given ALTO information resource, which provides scoping. For example, an entity domain
containing PIDs is identiﬁed with respect to the network map in which these PIDs are deﬁned.
Likewise, an entity domain containing local IP addresses may be deﬁned with respect to a
local network map.

•

The third limitation is addressed by deﬁning two new types of ALTO information resources:
property map (Section 7) and ﬁltered property map (Section 8). The former is a resource that
is requested using the HTTP GET method, returns the property values for all entities in one or
more entity domains, and is analogous to a network map or a cost map in
. The latter is a resource that is requested using the HTTP POST method, returns the
[RFC7285]
values for sets of properties and entities requested by the client, and is analogous to a ﬁltered
network map or a ﬁltered cost map.

Section 11.2 of

The entity property maps extension described in this document introduces a number of features
that are summarized in Appendix A, where Table 11 lists the features and references the sections
in this document that give their high-level and their normative descriptions.

The protocol extension deﬁned in this document can be augmented. New entity domain types
can be deﬁned without revising the present speciﬁcation. Similarly, new cost metrics and new
endpoint properties can be deﬁned in other documents without revising the protocol
speciﬁcation deﬁned in

[RFC7285]

.

1.1.  Terminology and Notation

This document uses the following terms and abbreviations that will be further deﬁned in the
document. While this document introduces the feature "entity property map", it will use both the
term "property map" and "entity property map" to refer to this feature.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

Transaction:

A request/response exchange between an ALTO client and an ALTO server.

Client:

When used with a capital "C", this term refers to an ALTO client. Note that expressions

"ALTO client", "ALTO Client", and "Client" are equivalent.

Server:

When used with a capital "S", this term refers to an ALTO server. Note that expressions

"ALTO server", "ALTO Server", and "Server" are equivalent.

EPS:

An abbreviation for Endpoint Property Service.

This document uses the notation deﬁned in

Section 8.2 of [RFC7285]

.

2.  Requirements Language

The key words "
", "
", "
MUST MUST NOT REQUIRED SHALL
", "
"
RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY
interpreted as described in BCP 14
capitals, as shown here.

[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

", "

", "
OPTIONAL

SHALL NOT

", "

SHOULD SHOULD NOT

", "

",

" in this document are to be

 when, and only when, they appear in all

3.  Basic Features of the Entity Property Map Extension

This section gives a high-level overview of the basic features involved in ALTO entity property
maps. It assumes the reader is familiar with the ALTO Protocol
. The purpose of this
extension is to convey properties for objects that extend ALTO endpoints and are called ALTO
Entities, or entities for short.

[RFC7285]

The features introduced in this section can be used standalone. However, in some cases, these
features may depend on particular information resources and need to be deﬁned with respect to
them. To this end, Section 4 introduces additional features that extend the ones presented in this
section.

3.1.  Entity

The concept of an ALTO entity generalizes the concept of an ALTO endpoint deﬁned in
Section 2.1
. An entity is an object that can be an endpoint deﬁned by its network address, but it
of [RFC7285]
can also be an object that has a deﬁned mapping to a set of one or more network addresses or an
object that is not even related to any network address. Thus, whereas all endpoints are entities,
not all entities are endpoints.

Examples of entities are:

•

an ALTO endpoint that represents an application or a host identiﬁed by a communication
address (e.g., an IPv4 or IPv6 address) in a network,

•

a PID, deﬁned in
by an ALTO network map, which maps a PID to a set of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses,

, that has a provider-deﬁned, human-readable identiﬁer speciﬁed

[RFC7285]

•

an Autonomous System (AS) that has an AS number (ASN) as its identiﬁer and maps to a set
of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses, which is deﬁned in

[RFC9241]

,

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

•

a country with a code speciﬁed in
network (CDN) providers associate properties and capabilities, which is deﬁned in

 to which applications such as content delivery
[RFC9241]

[ISO3166-1]

,

•

a TCP or UDP network ﬂow that is identiﬁed by a 5-tuple specifying its source and destination
addresses and port numbers, and the IP protocol (TCP or UDP),

•

a routing element, as speciﬁed in
information, or

[RFC7921]

, that is associated with routing capabilities

•

an Abstract Network Element, as speciﬁed in
, that represents an abstraction
of a network part such as a router, one or more links, a network domain, or their aggregation.

[PATH-VECTOR]

Some of the example entities listed above have already been documented as ALTO entities. The
other examples are provided for illustration as potential entities.

3.2.  Entity Domain

An entity domain deﬁnes a set of entities of the same semantic type. An entity domain is
characterized by a type and identiﬁed by a name.

In this document, an entity is owned by exactly one entity domain name. An entity identiﬁer
points to exactly one entity. If two entities in two diﬀerent entity domains refer to the same
physical or logical object, they are treated as diﬀerent entities. For example, if an end host has
both an IPv4 and an IPv6 address, these two addresses will be treated as two entities, deﬁned
respectively in the "ipv4" and "ipv6" entity domains.

3.2.1.  Entity Domain Type

The entity domain type deﬁnes the semantics of the type of entity found in an entity domain.
Entity domain types can be deﬁned in diﬀerent documents. For example: the present document
deﬁnes entity domain types "ipv4" and "ipv6" in Section 6.1 and "pid" in Section 6.2. The entity
domain type "ane", which deﬁnes Abstract Network Elements (ANEs), is introduced in
[PATH-
. The "countrycode" entity domain type that deﬁnes country codes is introduced in
VECTOR]
 be registered with IANA, as speciﬁed in Section 12.3.2.
. An entity domain type
[RFC9241]

MUST

3.2.2.  Entity Domain Name

In this document, the identiﬁer of an entity domain is mostly called "entity domain name". The
identiﬁer of an entity domain is scoped to an ALTO server. An entity domain identiﬁer can
sometimes be identical to the identiﬁer of its relevant entity domain type. This is the case when
the entities of a domain have an identiﬁer that points to the same object throughout all the
information resources of the Server that are providing entity properties for this domain. For
example, a domain of type "ipv4" containing entities that are identiﬁed by a public IPv4 address
can be named "ipv4" because its entities are uniquely identiﬁed by all the Server resources.

In some cases, the name of an entity domain cannot be simply its entity domain type. Indeed, for
some domain types, entities are deﬁned relative to a given information resource. This is the case
for entities of domain type "pid". A PID is deﬁned relative to a network map. For example, an
entity "mypid10" of domain type "pid" may be deﬁned in a given network map and be undeﬁned
in other network maps. The entity "mypid10" may even be deﬁned in two diﬀerent network maps,

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

and it may map in each of these network maps to a diﬀerent set of endpoint addresses. In this
case, naming an entity domain only by its type "pid" does not guarantee that its set of entities is
owned by exactly one entity domain.

Sections 4.2 and 5.1.2 describe how a domain is uniquely identiﬁed across the ALTO server by a
name that associates the domain type and the related information resource.

3.3.  Entity Property Type

Section 7.1 of [RFC7285]

An entity property deﬁnes a property of an entity. This is similar to the endpoint property deﬁned
in
agnostic information. Similar to an entity domain, an entity property is characterized by a type
 be registered with IANA, as speciﬁed in
and identiﬁed by a name. An entity property type
Section 12.4.

. An entity property can convey either network-aware or network-

MUST

Below are listed some examples with real and ﬁctitious entity domain and property names:

•

an entity in the "ipv4" domain type may have a property whose value is an Autonomous
System (AS) number indicating the AS to which this IPv4 address belongs and another
property named "countrycode" indicating a country code mapping to this address,

•

an entity identiﬁed by its country code in the entity domain type "countrycode", deﬁned in
[RFC9241]

, may have a property indicating what delivery protocol is used by a CDN, or

•

an entity in the "netmap1.pid" domain may have a property that indicates the central
geographical location of the endpoints it includes.

It should be noted that some identiﬁers may be used for both an entity domain type and a
property type. For example:

•

the identiﬁer "countrycode" may point to both the entity domain type "countrycode" and the
ﬁctitious property type "countrycode".

•

the identiﬁer "pid" may point to both the entity domain type "pid" and the property type "pid".

Likewise, the same identiﬁer may point to both a domain name and a property name. For
example: the identiﬁer "netmap10.pid" may point to either the domain deﬁned by the PIDs of
network map "netmap10" or to a property that returns, for an entity deﬁned by its IPv4 address,
the PID of "netmap10" that contains this entity. Such cases are further explained in Section 4.

3.4.  New Information Resource and Media Type: ALTO Property Map

This document introduces a new ALTO information resource named property map. An ALTO
property map provides a set of properties for one or more sets of entities. A property may apply
to diﬀerent entity domain types and names. For example, an ALTO property map may deﬁne the
"ASN" property for both "ipv4" and "ipv6" entity domains.

The present extension also introduces a new media type.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

This document uses the same deﬁnition of an information resource as
ALTO uses media types to uniquely indicate the data format used to encode the content to be
transmitted between an ALTO server and an ALTO client in the HTTP entity body. In the present
case, an ALTO property map resource is deﬁned by the media type "application/alto-
propmap+json".

Section 9.1 of [RFC7285]

.

A property map can be queried as a GET-mode resource, thus conveying all properties for all
entities indicated in its capabilities. It can also be queried as a POST-mode resource, thus
conveying a selection of properties for a selection of entities.

4.  Advanced Features of the Entity Property Map Extension

This section gives a high-level overview of the advanced features involved in ALTO entity
property maps. Most of these features extend the features deﬁned in Section 3.

4.1.  Entity Identiﬁer and Entity Domain Name

[RFC7285]

In
address domain. Examples are "ipv4:192.0.2.14" and "ipv6:2001:db8::12".

, an endpoint has an identiﬁer that is explicitly associated with the "ipv4" or "ipv6"

In this document, example IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and preﬁxes are taken from the address
ranges reserved for documentation by

[RFC3849]

[RFC5737]

 and

.

In this document, an entity must be owned by exactly one entity domain name, and an entity
identiﬁer must point to exactly one entity. To ensure this, an entity identiﬁer is explicitly attached
to the name of its entity domain, and an entity domain type characterizes the semantics and
identiﬁer format of its entities.

The encoding format of an entity identiﬁer is further speciﬁed in Section 5.1.3 of this document.

For instance:

•

if an entity is an endpoint with IPv4 address "192.0.2.14", its identiﬁer is associated with entity
domain name "ipv4" and is "ipv4:192.0.2.14";

•

if an entity is a PID named "mypid10" in network map resource "netmap2", its identiﬁer is
associated with entity domain name "netmap2.pid" and is "netmap2.pid:mypid10".

4.2.  Resource-Speciﬁc Entity Domain Name

Some entities are deﬁned and identiﬁed uniquely and globally in the context of an ALTO server.
This is the case, for instance, when entities are endpoints that are identiﬁed by a reachable IPv4
or IPv6 address. The entity domain for such entities can be globally deﬁned and named "ipv4" or
"ipv6". Those entity domains are called resource-agnostic entity domains in this document, as
they are not associated with any speciﬁc ALTO information resources.

Some other entities and entity types are only deﬁned relative to a given information resource.
This is the case for entities of domain type "pid", which can only be understood with respect to the
network map where they are deﬁned. For example, a PID named "mypid10" may be deﬁned to

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

represent a set S1 of IP addresses in a network map resource named "netmap1". Another network
map "netmap2" may use the same name "mypid10" and deﬁne it to represent another set S2 of IP
addresses. The identiﬁer "pid:mypid10" may thus point to diﬀerent objects because the
information on the originating information resource is lost.

To solve this ambiguity, the present extension introduces the concept of resource-speciﬁc entity
domain. This concept applies to domain types where entities are deﬁned relative to a given
information resource. It can also apply to entity domains that are deﬁned locally, such as local
networks of objects identiﬁed with a local IPv4 address.

In such cases, an entity domain type is explicitly associated with an identiﬁer of the information
resource where these entities are deﬁned. Such an information resource is referred to as the
"speciﬁc information resource". Using a resource-aware entity domain name, an ALTO property
map can unambiguously identify distinct entity domains of the same type, on which entity
properties may be queried. Examples of resource-speciﬁc entity domain names may look like
"netmap1.pid" or "netmap2.pid". Thus, a name association such as "netmap1.pid:mypid10" and
"netmap2.pid:mypid10" distinguishes the two abovementioned PIDs that are both named
"mypid10" but in two diﬀerent resources, "netmap1" and "netmap2".

An information resource is deﬁned in the scope of an ALTO Server and so is an entity domain
name. The format of a resource-speciﬁc entity domain name is further speciﬁed in Section 5.1.2.

4.3.  Resource-Speciﬁc Entity Property Value

Like entity domains, some types of properties are deﬁned relative to an information resource.
That is, an entity may have a property of a given type whose values are associated with diﬀerent
information resources.

For example, suppose entity "192.0.2.34" deﬁned in the "ipv4" domain has a property of type "pid"
whose value is the PID to which address "192.0.2.34" is attached in a network map. The mapping of
network addresses to PIDs is speciﬁc to a network map and probably diﬀerent from one network
map resource to another one. Thus, if a property "pid" is deﬁned for entity "192.0.2.34" in two
diﬀerent network maps "netmap1" and "netmap2", the value for this property can be a diﬀerent
value in "netmap1" and "netmap2".

To support information-resource-dependent property values, this document uses the same
approach as in Section
[RFC7285]
property value depends on a given information resource, the name of this property
explicitly associated with the information resource that deﬁnes it.

10.8.1 ( "Resource-Speciﬁc Endpoint Properties")

. When a
 be
MUST

 of

For example, the property "pid" queried on entity "ipv4:192.0.2.34" and deﬁned in both "netmap1"
and "netmap2" can be named "netmap1.pid" and "netmap2.pid". This allows a Client to get a
property of the same type but deﬁned in diﬀerent information resources with a single query.
Speciﬁcations for the property name format are provided in Section 5.2.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

4.4.  Entity Hierarchy and Property Inheritance

For some domain types, there is an underlying structure that allows entities to be eﬃciently
grouped into a set and be deﬁned by the identiﬁer of this set. This is the case for domain types
"ipv4" and "ipv6", where individual Internet addresses can be grouped in blocks. When the same
property value applies to a whole set, a Server can deﬁne a property for the identiﬁer of this set
instead of enumerating all the entities and their properties. This allows a substantial reduction of
transmission payload both for the Server and the Client. For example, all the entities included in
the set deﬁned by the address block "ipv6:2001:db8::1/64" share the same properties and values
deﬁned for this block.

Additionally, entity sets sometimes are related by inclusion, hierarchy, or other relations. This
allows deﬁning inheritance rules for entity properties that propagate properties among related
entity sets. The Server and the Client can use these inheritance rules for further payload savings.
Entity hierarchy and property inheritance rules are speciﬁed in the documents that deﬁne the
applicable domain types. The present document deﬁnes these rules for the "ipv4" and "ipv6"
domain types.

For applicable domain types, this document introduces entity property inheritance rules with the
following concepts: entity hierarchy, property inheritance, and property value unicity. A detailed
speciﬁcation of entity hierarchy and property inheritance rules is provided in Section 5.1.4.

4.4.1.  Entity Hierarchy

An entity domain may allow the use of a single identiﬁer to identify a set of related individual
entities. For example, a Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) block can be used to identify a set
of IPv4 or IPv6 entities. A CIDR block is called a hierarchical entity identiﬁer, as it can reﬂect
inclusion relations among entity sets. That is, in an entity hierarchy, "supersets" are deﬁned at
upper levels and include "subsets" deﬁned at lower levels. For example, the CIDR "ipv4:192.0.1.0/24"
includes all the individual IPv4 entities identiﬁed by the CIDR "ipv4:192.0.1.0/26". This document
will sometimes use the term "hierarchical address" to refer to a hierarchical entity identiﬁer.

4.4.2.  Property Inheritance

A property may be deﬁned for a hierarchical entity identiﬁer, while it may be undeﬁned for
individual entities covered by this identiﬁer. In this case, these individual entities inherit the
property value deﬁned for the identiﬁer that covers them. For example, suppose a property map
deﬁnes a property P for which it assigns value V1 only for the hierarchical entity identiﬁer
"ipv4:192.0.1.0/24" but not for individual entities in this block. Suppose also that inheritance rules
are speciﬁed for CIDR blocks in the "ipv4" domain type. When receiving this property map, a
Client can infer that entity "ipv4:192.0.1.1" inherits the property value V1 of block
"ipv4:192.0.1.0/24" because the address "ipv4:192.0.1.1" is included in the CIDR block
"ipv4:192.0.1.0/24".

Property value inheritance rules also apply among entity sets. A property map may deﬁne values
for an entity set belonging to a hierarchy but not for "subsets" that are covered by this set
identiﬁer. In this case, inheritance rules must specify how entities in "subsets" inherit property

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

values from their "superset". For instance, suppose a property P is deﬁned only for the entity set
deﬁned by address block "ipv4:192.0.1.0/24". We know that entity set "ipv4:192.0.1.0/30" is included
in "ipv4:192.0.1.0/24". Therefore, the entities of "ipv4:192.0.1.0/30" may inherit the value of property
P from set "ipv4:192.0.1.0/24" if an inheritance rule from "ipv4" CIDR blocks to included "ipv4" CIDR
blocks is speciﬁed.

4.4.3.  Property Value Unicity

The inheritance rules must ensure that an entity belonging to a hierarchical set of entities inherits
no more than one property value, for the sake of consistency. Indeed, a property map may deﬁne
a property for a hierarchy of entity sets that inherits property values from one or more supersets
(located at upper levels). On the other hand, a property value deﬁned for a subset (located at a
lower level) may be diﬀerent from the value deﬁned for a superset. In such a case, subsets may
potentially end up with diﬀerent property values. This may be the case for address blocks with
increasing preﬁx length, on which a property value becomes increasingly accurate and thus may
diﬀer. For example, a ﬁctitious property such as "geo-location" or "average transfer volume" may
be deﬁned at a progressively ﬁner grain for lower-level subsets of entities deﬁned with
progressively longer CIDR preﬁxes. It seems more interesting to have property values of
progressively higher accuracy. A unicity rule applied to the entity domain type must specify an
arbitration rule among the diﬀerent property values for an entity. An example illustrating the
need for such rules is provided in Section 6.1.3.

4.5.  Supported Properties for Entity Domains in Property Map Capabilities

A property type is not necessarily applicable to any domain type, or an ALTO Server may choose
not to provide a property for all applicable domains. For instance, a property type reﬂecting link
bandwidth is likely not deﬁned for entities of a domain of type "countrycode". Therefore, an ALTO
server providing property maps needs to specify the properties that can be queried on the
diﬀerent entity domains it supports.

This document explains how the Information Resource Directory (IRD) capabilities of a property
map resource unambiguously expose which properties a Client can query on a given entity
domain:

•

a ﬁeld named "mappings" lists the names of the entity domains supported by the property
map, and

•

for each listed entity domain, a list of the names of the applicable properties is provided.

An example is provided in Section 10.3. The "mappings" ﬁeld associates entity domains and
properties that can be resource-agnostic or resource-speciﬁc. This allows a Client to formulate
compact and unambiguous entity property queries, possibly relating to one or more information
resources. In particular:

•

it prevents a Client from querying a property for entity domains for which it is not deﬁned;

•

it allows a Client to query, for an entity E, values for a property P that are deﬁned in several
information resources; and

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

•

it allows a Client to query a property P on entities that are deﬁned in several information
resources.

Further details are provided in Section 7.4.

4.6.  Deﬁning Information Resource for Resource-Speciﬁc Entity Domains

A Client willing to query entity properties belonging to a domain needs to know how to retrieve
these entities. To this end, the Client can look up the "mappings" ﬁeld exposed in IRD capabilities
of a property map; see Section 4.5. This ﬁeld, in its keys, exposes all the entity domains supported
by the property map. The syntax of the entity domain identiﬁer speciﬁed in Section 5.1.2 allows
the client to infer whether the entity domain is resource-speciﬁc or not. The Client can extract, if
applicable, the identiﬁer of the speciﬁc resource, query the resource, and retrieve the entities. For
example:

•

an entity domain named "netmap1.ipv4" includes the IPv4 addresses that appear in the "ipv4"
ﬁeld of the endpoint address group of each PID in the network map "netmap1" and that have
no meaning outside "netmap1" because, for instance, these are local addresses not reachable
outside some private network;

•

an entity domain named "netmap1.pid" includes the PIDs listed in network map "netmap1";
and

•

an entity domain named "ipv4" is resource-agnostic and covers all the reachable IPv4
addresses.

Besides, it is not possible to prevent a Server from mistakenly exposing inappropriate
associations of information resources and entity domain types. To prevent failures due to invalid
queries, it is necessary to inform the Client which associations are allowed. An informed Client
will just ignore inappropriate associations exposed by a Server and avoid error-prone
transactions with the Server.

For example, the association "costmap3.pid" is not allowed for the following reason: although a
cost map exposes PID identiﬁers, it does not deﬁne the set of addresses included in this PID.
Neither does a cost map list all the PIDs on which properties can be queried because a cost map
only exposes PID pairs on which a queried cost type is deﬁned. Therefore, the resource "costmap3"
does not enable a Client to extract information on the existing PID entities or on the addresses
they contain.

Instead, the cost map uses a network map where all the PIDs used in a cost map are deﬁned
together with the addresses contained by the PIDs. This network map is qualiﬁed in this document
as the deﬁning information resource for the entity domain of type "pid", and this concept is
explained in Section 4.6.1.

4.6.1.  Deﬁning Information Resource and Its Media Type

For the reasons explained in Section 4.6, this document introduces the concept of "Deﬁning
Information Resource and its Media Type".

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

A deﬁning information resource for an entity domain D is the information resource where
entities of D are deﬁned. That is, all the information on the entities of D can be retrieved in this
resource. A deﬁning information resource is deﬁned for resource-speciﬁc entity domains. It does
not exist for entity domains that are not resource-speciﬁc such as "ipv4" or "ipv6". Neither does it
exist for entity domains that are covering entity identiﬁers already deﬁned in other
standardization documents, as is the case for country code identiﬁers standardized in
[ISO3166-1]
essence domain-speciﬁc, such as the domain type "pid". It is also useful for resource-speciﬁc
entity domains constructed from resource-agnostic domain types, such as network-map-speciﬁc
domains of local IPv4 addresses.

 or AS numbers allocated by IANA. This is useful for entity domain types that are by

The deﬁning information resource of a resource-speciﬁc entity domain D, when it exists, is unique
and has the following characteristics:

•

it has an entry in the IRD;

•

it deﬁnes the entities of D;

•

it does not use another information resource that deﬁnes these entities;

•

it deﬁnes and exposes entity identiﬁers that are all persistent; and

•

its media type is equal to the one that is speciﬁed for the deﬁning information resource of an
entity domain type.

A fundamental characteristic of a deﬁning information resource is its media type. There is a
unique association between an entity domain type and the media type of its deﬁning
information resource. When an entity domain type allows associations with deﬁning
information resources, the media type of the potential deﬁning information resource
speciﬁed:

MUST

 be

•

in the document that deﬁnes this entity domain type, and

•

in the "ALTO Entity Domain Types" IANA registry.

When the Client wants to use a resource-speciﬁc entity domain, it needs to be cognizant of the
media type of its deﬁning information resource. If the Server exposes a resource-speciﬁc entity
domain with a noncompliant media type for the deﬁning resource, the Client
entities from that entity domain to avoid errors.

 ignore the

MUST

4.6.2.  Examples of Deﬁning Information Resources and Their Media Types

Here are examples of deﬁning information resource types and their media types associated with
diﬀerent entity domain types:

•

For entity domain type "pid", the media type of the speciﬁc resource is "application/alto-
networkmap+json" because PIDs are deﬁned in network map resources.

•

For entity domain types "ipv4" and "ipv6", the media type of the speciﬁc resource is
"application/alto-networkmap+json" because IPv4 and IPv6 addresses covered by the Server
are deﬁned in network map resources.

•

 deﬁnes entities named "ANE", where ANE
For entities of domain type "ane";
stands for Abstract Network Element, and the entity domain type "ane". An ANE may have a

[PATH-VECTOR]

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

persistent identiﬁer, say, "entity-4", that is provided by the Server as a value of the "persistent-
entity-id" property of this ANE. Further properties may then be queried on an ANE by using its
persistent entity identiﬁer. These properties are available from a persistent property map
that deﬁnes properties for a speciﬁc "ane" domain. Together with the persistent identiﬁer, the
Server also provides the property map resource identiﬁer where the "ane" domain containing
"entity-4" is deﬁned. The deﬁnition of the "ane" entity domain containing "entity-4" is thus
speciﬁc to the property map. Therefore, for entities of domain type "ane" that have a
persistent identiﬁer, the media type of the deﬁning information resource is "application/alto-
propmap+json".

•

Last, the entity domain types "asn" and "countrycode" deﬁned in
deﬁning information resource. Indeed, the entity identiﬁers in these two entity domain types
are already standardized in documents that the Client can use.

 do not have a

[RFC9241]

4.7.  Deﬁning Information Resources for Resource-Speciﬁc Property Values

As explained in Section 4.3, a property type may take values that are resource-speciﬁc. This is the
case for property type "pid", whose values are by essence deﬁned relative to a speciﬁc network
map. That is, the PID value returned for an IPv4 address is speciﬁc to the network map deﬁning
this PID and may diﬀer from one network map to another one.

[RFC9241]

, which deﬁnes property type "cdni-capabilities". The

Another example is provided in
value of this property is speciﬁc to a Content Delivery Network Interconnection (CDNI)
Advertisement resource, which provides a list of CDNI capabilities. The property is provided for
entity domain types "ipv4", "ipv6", "asn", and "countrycode". However, a CDNI Advertisement
resource does not deﬁne PID values for IPv4 addresses, while a network map does not deﬁne
CDNI capabilities for IPv4 addresses.

Similar to resource-speciﬁc entity domains, the Client needs to be cognizant of appropriate
associations of information resource and property types. Therefore, when specifying and
registering a property type whose values are resource-speciﬁc, the media type of its deﬁning
information resource needs to be speciﬁed. For example:

•

The media type of the deﬁning information resource for property type "pid" is "application/
alto-networkmap+json".

•

The media type of the deﬁning information resource for property type "cdni-capabilities"
deﬁned in

 is "application/alto-cdni+json".

[RFC9241]

5.  Protocol Speciﬁcation: Basic Data Types

5.1.  Entity Domain

5.1.1.  Entity Domain Type

 be no more than
An entity domain has a type, which is uniquely identiﬁed by a string that
64 characters, and
 contain characters other than US-ASCII alphanumeric characters
(U+0030-U+0039, U+0041-U+005A, and U+0061-U+007A), the hyphen-minus ('-', U+002D), the colon
(':', U+003A), or the low line ('_', U+005F).

MUST NOT

MUST

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

The usage of colon (':', U+003A)

MUST

 obey the rules below:

•

The colon (':', U+003A) character

MUST NOT

 appear more than once;

•

The colon character

MUST NOT

 be used unless within the string "priv:";

•

The string "priv:"
type; and

MUST NOT

 be used unless it starts the string that identiﬁes an entity domain

•

For an entity domain type identiﬁer with the "priv:" preﬁx, an additional string (e.g.,
company identiﬁer or random string)
MUST

 follow "priv:" to reduce potential collisions.

For example, the strings "ipv4", "ipv6", "pid", and "priv:example-test-edt", are valid entity domain
types. "ipv4.anycast", "pid.local", and "priv:" are invalid.

Although "_", "-", "__--" are valid entity domain types, it is desirable to add characters, such as
alphanumeric ones, for better intelligibility.

The type EntityDomainType is used in this document to denote a JSON string meeting the
preceding requirements.

An entity domain type deﬁnes the semantics of a type of entity, independently of any specifying
 be registered with IANA
resource. All entity domain types that are not preﬁxed with "priv:"
in the "ALTO Entity Domain Types" registry, deﬁned in Section 12.3, following the procedure
speciﬁed in Section 12.3.2 of this document. The format of the entity identiﬁers (see Section 5.1.3)
in that entity domain type, as well as any hierarchical or inheritance rules (see Section 5.1.4) for
those entities,

 be speciﬁed in the IANA registration.

MUST

MUST

Entity domain type identiﬁers preﬁxed with "priv:" are reserved for Private Use (see
without a need to register with IANA. The deﬁnition of a private-use entity domain type
apply the same way in all property maps of an IRD where it is present.

[RFC8126]

)

MUST

5.1.2.  Entity Domain Name

As discussed in Section 3.2, an entity domain is characterized by a type and identiﬁed by a name.

This document distinguishes three categories of entity domains: resource-speciﬁc entity domains,
resource-agnostic entity domains, and self-deﬁned entity domains. Their entity domain names
are constructed as speciﬁed in the following subsections.

Each entity domain is identiﬁed by a unique entity domain name. Borrowing the symbol "::="
from the Backus-Naur Form notation
as follows:

, the format of an entity domain name is deﬁned

[RFC5511]

EntityDomainName ::= [ [ ResourceID ] '.' ] EntityDomainType

The presence and construction of the component

                "[ [ ResourceID ] '.' ]"

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

depends on the category of entity domain.

Note that the '.' separator is not allowed in EntityDomainType, and hence there is no ambiguity
on whether an entity domain name refers to a resource-agnostic entity domain or a resource-
speciﬁc entity domain.

Note also that
of the resource identiﬁer including the following speciﬁcation:

Section 10.1 of [RFC7285]

 speciﬁes the format of the PID name, which is the format

The '.' separator is reserved for future use and
MUST NOT
indicated in this document, or an extension document.

 be used unless speciﬁcally

The present extension keeps the format speciﬁcation of
 be used in an information resource identiﬁer.
NOT

[RFC7285]

, hence the '.' separator

MUST

5.1.2.1.  Resource-Speciﬁc Entity Domain

 start with a resource identiﬁer using the ResourceID type deﬁned in

A resource-speciﬁc entity domain is identiﬁed by an entity domain name constructed as follows.
It
MUST
[RFC7285]
EntityDomainType speciﬁed in Section 5.1.1.

, followed by the '.' separator (U+002E), followed by a string of the type

Section 10.2 of

For example, if an ALTO server provides two network maps "netmap-1" and "netmap-2", these
network maps can deﬁne two resource-speciﬁc domains of type "pid", respectively identiﬁed by
"netmap-1.pid" and "netmap-2.pid".

5.1.2.2.  Resource-Agnostic Entity Domain

A resource-agnostic entity domain contains entities that are identiﬁed independently of any
information resource. The identiﬁer of a resource-agnostic entity domain is simply the identiﬁer
of its entity domain type. For example, "ipv4" and "ipv6" identify the two resource-agnostic
Internet address entity domains deﬁned in Section 6.1.

5.1.2.3.  Self-Deﬁned Entity Domain

A property map can deﬁne properties for entities that are speciﬁc to a unique information
resource, which is the property map itself. This may be the case when an ALTO Server provides
properties for a set of entities that are deﬁned only in this property map, are not relevant to
another one, and do not depend on another speciﬁc resource.

For example: a specialized property map may deﬁne a domain of type "ane", deﬁned in
VECTOR]
identiﬁer and are relevant only to this property map.

, that contains a set of ANEs representing data centers that each have a persistent

[PATH-

In this case, the entity domain is qualiﬁed as "self-deﬁned". The identiﬁer of a self-deﬁned entity
domain can be of the format:

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

    EntityDomainName ::= '.' EntityDomainType

where '.' indicates that the entity domain only exists within the property map resource using it.

A self-deﬁned entity domain can be viewed as a particular case of resource-speciﬁc entity
domain, where the speciﬁc resource is the current resource that uses this entity domain. In that
case, for the sake of simpliﬁcation, the component ResourceID
domain name.

 be omitted in its entity

MUST

5.1.3.  Entity Identiﬁer

Entities in an entity domain are identiﬁed by entity identiﬁers (EntityID) of the following format:

EntityID ::= EntityDomainName ':' DomainTypeSpecificEntityID

Examples from the Internet address entity domains include individual IP addresses such as
"net1.ipv4:192.0.2.14" and "net1.ipv6:2001:db8::12", as well as address blocks such as
"net1.ipv4:192.0.2.0/26" and "net1.ipv6:2001:db8::/48".

The format of the second part of an entity identiﬁer, DomainTypeSpeciﬁcEntityID, depends on
the entity domain type and
registering it with IANA. Identiﬁers
that hierarchy. The rules deﬁning any hierarchy or inheritance
domain type is registered.

 be speciﬁed when deﬁning a new entity domain type and

 be hierarchical, and properties

 be deﬁned when the entity

 be inherited based on

MUST

MUST

MAY

MAY

The type EntityID is used in this document to denote a JSON string representing an entity
identiﬁer in this format.

Note that two entity identiﬁers with diﬀerent, valid textual representations may refer to the same
entity, for a given entity domain. For example, the strings "net1.ipv6:2001:db8::1" and
"net1.ipv6:2001:db8:0:0:0:0:0:1" refer to the same entity in the "ipv6" entity domain. Such
equivalences should be established by the object represented by DomainTypeSpeciﬁcEntityID. For
example,
addresses.

 establishes equivalence for IPv6 addresses, while

 does so for IPv4

[RFC4632]

[RFC5952]

5.1.4.  Hierarchy and Inheritance

To simplify the representation, some types of entity domains allow the ALTO Client and Server to
use a hierarchical entity identiﬁer format to represent a block of individual entities. For instance,
in an IPv4 domain "net1.ipv4", a CIDR "net1.ipv4:192.0.2.0/26" covers 64 individual IPv4 entities. In
this case, the corresponding property inheritance rule
type. The hierarchy and inheritance rule

MUST
 have no ambiguity.

 be deﬁned for the entity domain

MUST

5.2.  Entity Property

Each entity property has a type to indicate the encoding and the semantics of the value of this
entity property, and has a name to identify it.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

5.2.1.  Entity Property Type

MUST

The type EntityPropertyType is used in this document to indicate a string denoting an entity
property type. The string
characters other than US-ASCII alphanumeric characters (U+0030-U+0039, U+0041-U+005A, and
U+0061-U+007A), the hyphen-minus ('-', U+002D), the colon (':', U+003A), or the low line ('_', U+005F).
Note that the '.' separator is not allowed because it is reserved to separate an entity property type
and an information resource identiﬁer when an entity property is resource-speciﬁc.

 be no more than 32 characters, and it

MUST NOT

 contain

, where a Server can deﬁne properties for endpoints "ipv4" and "ipv6". In the present

While Section 5.1.1 allows the use of the character ":" with restrictions on entity domain
identiﬁers, it can be used without restrictions on entity property type identiﬁers. This relates to
[RFC7285]
extension, there is a mapping of ALTO entity domain types "ipv4" and "ipv6" to ALTO address
types "ipv4" and "ipv6". Properties deﬁned for "ipv4" and "ipv6" endpoints should be reusable on
"ipv4" and "ipv6" entities. Forbidding the usage of ":" in a non-private entity property type
identiﬁer would not allow the use of properties previously deﬁned for "ipv4" and "ipv6" endpoints
because their identiﬁers would be invalid.

Although ":" or "_::-" are valid entity domain types, it is desirable to add characters, such as
alphanumeric ones, for better intelligibility.

Identiﬁers preﬁxed with "priv:" are reserved for Private Use
 be registered in the "ALTO Entity
with IANA. All other identiﬁers for entity property types
Property Types" registry, which is deﬁned in Section 12.4. The intended semantics of the entity
property type

 be speciﬁed in the IANA registration.

 without a need to register

[RFC8126]

MUST

MUST

For an entity property identiﬁer with the "priv:" preﬁx, an additional string (e.g., company
identiﬁer or random string)
string "priv:" alone is not a valid entity property identiﬁer. The deﬁnition of a private-use entity
property type must apply the same way in all property maps of an IRD where it is present.

 follow the preﬁx to reduce potential collisions, that is, the

MUST

To distinguish from the endpoint property type, the entity property type has the following
characteristics:

•

Some entity property types are applicable only to entities in particular entity domain types.
For example, the property type "pid" is applicable to entities in the entity domain types "ipv4"
or "ipv6", while it is not applicable to entities in an entity domain of type "pid".

•

The intended semantics of the value of an entity property may also depend on the entity
domain type. For example, suppose that a property named "geo-location" is deﬁned as the
coordinates of a point and is encoded as: "latitude longitude [altitude]." When applied to an
entity that represents a speciﬁc host computer and identiﬁed by an address in an entity
domain of type "ipv4" or "ipv6", the "geo-location" property would deﬁne the host's location.
However, when applied to an entity in a domain of type "pid", the property would indicate a
location representative of all hosts in this "pid" entity.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

5.2.2.  Entity Property Name

Each entity property is identiﬁed by an entity property name, which is a string of the following
format:

EntityPropertyName ::= [ [ ResourceID ] '.' ] EntityPropertyType

Similar to the endpoint property type deﬁned in
may be deﬁned by either the property map itself (self-deﬁned) or some other speciﬁc information
resource (resource-speciﬁc).

Section 10.8 of [RFC7285]

, each entity property

The entity property name of a resource-speciﬁc entity property starts with a string of the type
ResourceID deﬁned in
EntityDomainType typed string. For example, the "pid" properties of an "ipv4" entity deﬁned by
two diﬀerent maps "net-map-1" and "net-map-2" are identiﬁed by "net-map-1.pid" and "net-
map-2.pid" respectively.

, followed by the '.' separator (U+002E) and an

[RFC7285]

The speciﬁc information resource of an entity property may be the current information resource
itself, that is, the property map deﬁning the property. In that case, the ResourceID in the property
name
 be omitted. For example, the property name ".ASN" applied to an entity identiﬁed
by its IPv4 address indicates the AS number of the AS that "owns" the entity, where the returned AS
number is deﬁned by the property map itself.

SHOULD

5.2.3.  Format for Entity Property Value

Section 11.4.1.6 of [RFC7285]
speciﬁed in
it is not. This document extends the format of a property value by allowing it to be a JSONValue
instead of just a JSONString.

 speciﬁes that an implementation of the Endpoint Property Service

 assume that the property value is a JSONString and fail to parse if

[RFC7285] SHOULD

6.  Entity Domain Types Deﬁned in This Document

The deﬁnition of each entity domain type
domain-speciﬁc entity identiﬁers. The deﬁnition of an entity domain type
and inheritance semantics. This document deﬁnes three initial entity domain types as follows.

 include the entity domain type name and the

 include hierarchy

MUST

MAY

6.1.  Internet Address Domain Types

The document deﬁnes two entity domain types (IPv4 and IPv6) for Internet addresses. Both types
are resource-agnostic entity domain types and hence deﬁne corresponding resource-agnostic
entity domains as well. Since the two domains use the same hierarchy and inheritance semantics,
we deﬁne the semantics together, instead of repeating for each.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

6.1.1.  Entity Domain Type: IPv4

6.1.1.1.  Entity Domain Type Identiﬁer

The identiﬁer for this entity domain type is "ipv4".

6.1.1.2.  Domain-Speciﬁc Entity Identiﬁers

Individual addresses are strings as speciﬁed by the IPv4address rule in
hierarchical addresses are strings as speciﬁed by the preﬁx notation in
An individual Internet address and the corresponding full-length preﬁx are considered aliases for
the same entity on which to deﬁne properties. Thus, "ipv4:192.0.2.0" and "ipv4:192.0.2.0/32" are
equivalent.

Section 3.2.2 of [RFC3986]
.
Section 3.1 of [RFC4632]

;

6.1.2.  Entity Domain Type: IPv6

6.1.2.1.  Entity Domain Type Identiﬁer

The identiﬁer for this Entity Domain Type is "ipv6".

6.1.2.2.  Domain-Speciﬁc Entity Identiﬁers

Individual addresses are strings as speciﬁed by
strings as speciﬁed by IPv6 address preﬁxes notation in
properties, an individual Internet address and the corresponding 128-bit preﬁx are considered
aliases for the same entity. That is, "ipv6:2001:db8::1" and "ipv6:2001:db8::1/128" are equivalent
and have the same set of properties.

Section 2.3 of [RFC4291]

Section 4 of [RFC5952]

. To deﬁne

; hierarchical addresses are

6.1.3.  Hierarchy and Inheritance of Internet Address Domains

Both Internet address domains allow property values to be inherited. Speciﬁcally, if a property P
is not deﬁned for a speciﬁc Internet address I, but P is deﬁned for a hierarchical Internet address
C that represents a set of addresses containing I, then the address I inherits the value of P deﬁned
for the hierarchical address C. If more than one such hierarchical addresses deﬁne a value for P, I
inherits the value of P in the hierarchical address with the longest preﬁx. Note that this longest
preﬁx rule ensures no multiple value inheritances, and hence no ambiguity.

Hierarchical addresses can also inherit properties. For instance, if a property P:

•

is not deﬁned for the hierarchical address C,

•

but is deﬁned for a set of hierarchical addresses where:
◦

each address C' in the set contains all IP addresses in C, and

◦

C' has a shorter preﬁx length than C,

then C

MUST

 inherit the property P from the C' having the longest preﬁx length.

As an example, suppose that a server deﬁnes a property P for the following entities:

ipv4:192.0.2.0/26:

P=v1

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

ipv4:192.0.2.0/28:

ipv4:192.0.2.0/30:

ipv4:192.0.2.0:

P=v2

P=v3

P=v4

Table 1: Deﬁned Property Values

Then the following entities have the indicated values:

ipv4:192.0.2.0:

ipv4:192.0.2.1:

ipv4:192.0.2.16:

ipv4:192.0.2.32:

P=v4

P=v3

P=v1

P=v1

ipv4:192.0.2.64:

(not deﬁned)

ipv4:192.0.2.0/32:

P=v4

ipv4:192.0.2.0/31:

P=v3

ipv4:192.0.2.0/29:

P=v2

ipv4:192.0.2.0/27:

P=v1

ipv4:192.0.2.0/25:

(not deﬁned)

Table 2: Inherited Property Values

MAY

An ALTO server
That is, a server
"undeﬁned". To indicate "no value", a server

MAY

 explicitly indicate a property as not having a value for a particular entity.
 say that property P of entity X is "deﬁned to have no value" instead of

MAY

 perform diﬀerent behaviors:

•

If entity X would inherit a value for property P, and if the ALTO server decides to say that "X
has no value for P", then the ALTO server
this case, the ALTO client
as "do not apply the inheritance rules for this property on X".

 recognize the JSON "null" value as "no value" and interpret it

 return a "null" value for that property on X. In

MUST

MUST

•

If the entity would not inherit a value, then the ALTO server
property. In this case, the ALTO client cannot infer the value for this property of this entity
 interpret that this property has no value.
from the Inheritance rules. Thus, the client
MUST

 return "null" or just omit the

MAY

If the ALTO server does not deﬁne any properties for an entity, then the server
entity from the response.

MAY

 omit that

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

6.1.4.  Deﬁning Information Resource Media Type for Domain Types IPv4 and IPv6

Entity domain types "ipv4" and "ipv6" both allow the deﬁnition of resource-speciﬁc entity
domains. When resource-speciﬁc domains are deﬁned with entities of domain type "ipv4" or
"ipv6", the deﬁning information resource for an entity domain of type "ipv4" or "ipv6"
MUST
network map. The media type of a deﬁning information resource is therefore:

 be a

application/alto-networkmap+json

6.2.  Entity Domain Type: PID

The PID entity domain associates property values with the PIDs in a network map. Accordingly,
this entity domain always depends on a network map.

6.2.1.  Entity Domain Type Identiﬁer

The identiﬁer for this Entity Domain Type is "pid".

6.2.2.  Domain-Speciﬁc Entity Identiﬁers

The entity identiﬁers are the PID names of the associated network map.

6.2.3.  Hierarchy and Inheritance

There is no hierarchy or inheritance for properties associated with PIDs.

6.2.4.  Deﬁning Information Resource Media Type for Domain Type PID

The entity domain type "pid" allows the deﬁnition of resource-speciﬁc entity domains. When
resource-speciﬁc domains are deﬁned with entities of domain type "pid", the deﬁning
information resource for entity domain type "pid"
deﬁning information resource is therefore:

 be a network map. The media type of a

MUST

application/alto-networkmap+json

6.2.5.  Relationship To Internet Addresses Domains

The PID domain and the Internet address domains are completely independent; the properties
associated with a PID have no relation to the properties associated with the preﬁxes or endpoint
addresses in that PID. An ALTO server
preﬁxes in that PID or only some of these properties.

 choose to assign all the properties of a PID to the

MAY

For example, suppose "PID1" consists of the preﬁx "ipv4:192.0.2.0/24" and has the property P with
value v1. The Internet address entities "ipv4:192.0.2.0" and "ipv4:192.0.2.0/24" in the IPv4 domain
MAY

 have a value for the property P, and if they do, it is not necessarily v1.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

6.3.  Internet Address Properties vs. PID Properties

Because the Internet address and PID domains relate to completely distinct domain types, the
question may arise as to which entity domain type is the best for a property. In general, the
Internet address domain types are
RECOMMENDED
Internet address or are associated with, and inherited through, hierarchical addresses.

 for properties that are closely related to the

The PID domain type is
rather than from the Internet address preﬁxes in that PID.

RECOMMENDED

 for properties that arise from the deﬁnition of the PID,

For example, because Internet addresses are allocated to service providers by blocks of preﬁxes,
an "ISP" property would be best associated with Internet address domain types. On the other
hand, a property that explains why a PID was formed, or how it relates to a provider's network,
would best be associated with the PID domain type.

7.  Property Map

A property map returns the properties deﬁned for all entities in one or more domains, e.g., the
"location" property of entities in a domain of type "pid", and the "ASN" property of entities in
domains of types "ipv4" and "ipv6". Section 10.4 gives an example of a property map request and
its response.

Downloading the whole property map is a way for the Client to obtain the entity identiﬁers that
can be used as input for a ﬁltered property map request. However, a whole property map may be
too voluminous for a Client that only wants the list of applicable entity identiﬁers. How to obtain
the list of entities of a ﬁltered property map in a simpliﬁed response is speciﬁed in Section 8.

7.1.  Media Type

The media type of a property map is "application/alto-propmap+json".

7.2.  HTTP Method

The property map is requested using the HTTP GET method.

7.3.  Accept Input Parameters

A property map has no Accept Input parameters.

7.4.  Capabilities

The capabilities are deﬁned by an object of type PropertyMapCapabilities:

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

    object {
      EntityPropertyMapping mappings;
    } PropertyMapCapabilities;

    object-map {
      EntityDomainName -> EntityPropertyName<1..*>;
    } EntityPropertyMapping

with ﬁelds:

mappings:

A JSON object whose keys are names of entity domains and values are the supported

entity properties of the corresponding entity domains.

7.5.  Uses

The "uses" ﬁeld of a property map resource in an IRD entry speciﬁes the resources in this same
IRD on which this property map directly depends. It is an array of resource identiﬁer(s). This
array identiﬁes the deﬁning information resources associated with the resource-speciﬁc entity
domains and properties that are indicated in this resource.

7.6.  Response

If the entity domains in this property map depend on other resources, the "dependent-vtags" ﬁeld
in the "meta" ﬁeld of the response
resources, and the order
The data component of a property map response is named "property-map", which is a JSON
object of type PropertyMapData, where:

 be consistent with the "uses" ﬁeld of this property map resource.

 be an array that includes the version tags of those

MUST

MUST

    object {
      PropertyMapData property-map;
    } InfoResourceProperties : ResponseEntityBase;

    object-map {
      EntityID -> EntityProps;
    } PropertyMapData;

    object {
      EntityPropertyName -> JSONValue;
    } EntityProps;

The ResponseEntityBase type is deﬁned in

Section 8.4 of [RFC7285]

.

Speciﬁcally, a PropertyMapData object has one member for each entity in the property map. The
entity's properties are encoded in the corresponding EntityProps object. EntityProps encodes one
name/value pair for each property, where the property names are encoded as strings of type
PropertyName. A protocol implementation
SHOULD
JSONString or a JSON "null" value, and fail to parse if it is not, unless the implementation is using
an extension to this document that indicates when and how property values of other data types
are signaled.

 assume that the property value is either a

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

For each entity in the property map:

•

If the entity is in a resource-speciﬁc entity domain, the ALTO server
deﬁned properties and resource-speciﬁc properties that depend on the same resource as the
 ignore any resource-speciﬁc property for this entity if the
entity does. The ALTO client
mapping between this resource-speciﬁc property and this entity is not indicated, in the IRD,
in the "mappings" capability of the property map resource.

 only return self-

MUST

MUST

•

If the entity identiﬁer is resource-agnostic, the ALTO server
properties and all the resource-speciﬁc properties deﬁned in the property-deﬁning
information resources that are indicated, in the IRD, in the "mappings" capability of the
property map resource, unless property values can be omitted upon some inheritance rules.

 return the self-deﬁned

SHOULD

MAY

 omit property values that are inherited rather than explicitly deﬁned in

The ALTO server
order to achieve more compact encoding. As a consequence, the ALTO Client
inherited property values will all be present. If the Client needs inherited values, it
entity domain's inheritance rules to deduce those values.

MUST NOT

 assume
 use the

MUST

8.  Filtered Property Map

A ﬁltered property map returns the values of a set of properties for a set of entities selected by the
client.

Sections 10.5, 10.6, 10.7, and 10.8 give examples of ﬁltered property map requests and responses.

While the IRD lists all the names of the supported properties, it only lists the names of the
supported entity domains and not the entity identiﬁers. Sometimes a client only wants to know
what entity identiﬁers it can provide as input to a ﬁltered property map request but does not
want to download the full property map, or it may want to check whether some given entity
identiﬁers are eligible for a query. To support these cases, the ﬁltered property map supports a
lightweight response with empty property values.

8.1.  Media Type

The media type of a property map resource is "application/alto-propmap+json".

8.2.  HTTP Method

The ﬁltered property map is requested using the HTTP POST method.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

8.3.  Accept Input Parameters

The input parameters for a ﬁltered property map request are supplied in the entity body of the
POST request. This document speciﬁes the input parameters with a data format indicated by the
media type "application/alto-propmapparams+json", which is a JSON object of type
ReqFilteredPropertyMap. ReqFilteredPropertyMap is designed to support the following cases of
client requests:

•

The client wants the value of a selected set of properties for a selected set of entities;

•

The client wants all property values on all the entities;

•

The client wants all entities for which a property is deﬁned but is not interested in their
property values; or

•

The client wants to cross-check whether some entity identiﬁers are present in the ﬁltered
property map but is not interested in their property values.

The third case is equivalent to querying the whole unﬁltered property map, which can also be
achieved with a GET request. Some Clients, however, may prefer to systematically make ﬁltered
property map queries, where ﬁltering parameters may sometimes be empty.

The JSON object ReqFilteredPropertyMap is speciﬁed as follows:

                  object {
                    EntityID             entities<0..*>;
                    [EntityPropertyName   properties<0..*>;]
                  } ReqFilteredPropertyMap;

with ﬁelds:

entities:

A list of entity identiﬁers for which the speciﬁed properties are to be returned. If the list
 interpret the list as if it contained a list of all entities currently
 be included in the list of

is empty, the ALTO Server
deﬁned in the ﬁltered property map. The domain of each entity
entity domains in this resource's "capabilities" ﬁeld (see Section 8.4). The ALTO server
interpret entries appearing multiple times as if they appeared only once.

MUST

MUST

MUST

A list of properties to be returned for each entity. If the list is empty, the ALTO Sever
 interpret the list as if it contained a list of all properties currently deﬁned in the ﬁltered

properties:
MUST
property map. Each speciﬁed property
resource's "capabilities" ﬁeld (see Section 8.4). The ALTO server
appearing multiple times as if they appeared only once. This ﬁeld is optional. If it is absent, the
Server returns a property value equal to the literal string "{}" for all the entity identiﬁers of the
"entities" ﬁeld for which at least one property is deﬁned.

 be included in the list of properties in this
 interpret entries
MUST

MUST

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

Note that the ﬁeld "properties" is optional. In addition, when the "entities" ﬁeld is an empty list, it
corresponds to a query for all applicable entity identiﬁers of the ﬁltered property map, with no
current interest on any particular property. When the "entities" ﬁeld is not empty, it allows the
Client to check whether the listed entity identiﬁers can be used as input to a ﬁltered property map
query.

8.4.  Capabilities

The capabilities are deﬁned by an object of type PropertyMapCapabilities, as deﬁned in Section
7.4.

8.5.  Uses

This is the same as the "uses" ﬁeld of the property map resource (see Section 7.5).

8.6.  Filtered Property Map Response

The response
8.5 of [RFC7285]

, if the request is invalid.

MUST

 indicate an error, using ALTO Protocol error handling, as deﬁned in

Section

Speciﬁcally, a ﬁltered property map request can be invalid in the following cases:

•

The input ﬁeld "entities" is absent from the Client request. In this case, the Server
an "E_MISSING_FIELD" error as deﬁned in

Section 8.5.2 of [RFC7285]

.

MUST

 return

•

An entity identiﬁer in the "entities" ﬁeld of the request is invalid. This occurs when:

◦

The domain of this entity is not deﬁned in the "mappings" capability of this resource in the
IRD, or

◦

The entity identiﬁer is not valid for the entity domain.

A valid entity identiﬁer never generates an error, even if the ﬁltered property map resource
does not deﬁne any properties for it.

If an entity identiﬁer in the "entities" ﬁeld of the request is invalid, the ALTO server
return an "E_INVALID_FIELD_VALUE" error deﬁned in
"value" ﬁeld of the error message

MUST
, and the
 indicate the provided invalid entity identiﬁer.

Section 8.5.2 of [RFC7285]

SHOULD

•

A property name in the "properties" ﬁeld of the request is invalid. This occurs when this
property name is not deﬁned in the "properties" capability of this resource in the IRD.

When a ﬁltered property map resource does not deﬁne a value for a property requested for a
 omit that property from
particular entity, it is not an error. In this case, the ALTO server
the response for that endpoint.

MUST

If a property name in the "properties" ﬁeld in the request is invalid, the ALTO server
return an "E_INVALID_FIELD_VALUE" error deﬁned in
ﬁeld of the error message

 indicate the property name.

Section 8.5.2 of [RFC7285]

SHOULD

MUST
. The "value"

Some identiﬁers can be interpreted as both an entity name and a property name, as is the case
Section 8.5.2
for "pid" if it were erroneously used alone. In such a case, the Server
of [RFC7285]

, which says:

SHOULD

 follow

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

For an E_INVALID_FIELD_VALUE error, the server may include an optional ﬁeld named
"ﬁeld" in the "meta" ﬁeld of the response, to indicate the ﬁeld that contains the wrong
value.

The response to a valid request is the same as for the property map (see Section 7.6) except that:

•

If the requested entities include entities with a resource-agnostic identiﬁer, the "dependent-
vtags" ﬁeld in its "meta" ﬁeld
in the "uses" ﬁeld.

 include version tags of all dependent resources appearing

MUST

•

If the requested entities only include entities in resource-speciﬁc entity domains, the
"dependent-vtags" ﬁeld in its "meta" ﬁeld
MUST
which the requested resource-speciﬁc entity domains and the requested resource-speciﬁc
properties are dependent.

 include the version tags of the resources on

•

The response only includes the entities and properties requested by the client. If an entity in
the request is identiﬁed by a hierarchical identiﬁer (e.g., a "ipv4" or "ipv6" preﬁx), the response
 return all properties that are present for any address covered by the preﬁx, even
MUST
though some of those properties may not be present for all addresses covered by the preﬁx.

•

When the input member "properties" is absent from the client request, the Server returns a
property map containing all the requested entity identiﬁers for which one or more properties
are deﬁned. For all the entities of the returned map, the returned property value is equal to
"{}".

The ﬁltered property map response
requested entities and all the entities that are able to inherit property values from the requested
entities. To achieve this goal, the ALTO server
MAY

 include all the inherited property values for the

 follow two rules:

MUST

•

MUST

If a property for a requested entity is inherited from another entity not included in the
request, the response
property map may skip a property P for an entity A (e.g., "ipv4:192.0.2.0/31") if P can be
derived using inheritance from another entity B (e.g., "ipv4:192.0.2.0/30"). A ﬁltered property
map request may include only A but not B. In such a case, the property P
the response for A.

 include this property for the requested entity. For example, a full

 be included in

MUST

•

If there are entities covered by a requested entity but they have diﬀerent values for the
requested properties, the response
values for them. For example, consider a request for property P of entity A (e.g.,
"ipv4:192.0.2.0/31"): if P has value v1 for "A1=ipv4:192.0.2.0/32" and v2 for "A2=ipv4:192.0.2.1/32",
then the response

 include all those entities and the diﬀerent property

 include A1 and A2.

SHOULD

MUST

For the sake of response compactness, the ALTO server

SHOULD

 obey the following rule:

•

If an entity identiﬁer in the response is already covered by other entities identiﬁers in the
same response, it
"A=ipv4:192.0.2.0/31"

 be removed from the response. In the previous example, the entity
 be removed because A1 and A2 cover all the addresses in A.

SHOULD

SHOULD

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

An ALTO client should be aware that the entities in the response may be diﬀerent from the entities
in its request.

8.7.  Entity Property Type Deﬁned in This Document

This document deﬁnes the entity property type "pid". This property type extends the ALTO
endpoint property type "pid" deﬁned in
same semantics and applies to IPv4 and IPv6 addresses; the diﬀerence is that the IPv4 and IPv6
addresses have evolved from the status of endpoints to the status of entities.

Section 7.1.1 of [RFC7285]

 as follows: the property has the

The deﬁning information resource for property type

MUST

 be a network map.

8.7.1.  Entity Property Type: pid

Identiﬁer:

pid

Semantics:

the intended semantics are the same as in

[RFC7285]

 for the ALTO endpoint property

type "pid".

Media type of deﬁning information resource:

application/alto-networkmap+json

Security considerations:

for entity property type "pid" are the same as documented in

[RFC7285]

for the ALTO endpoint property type "pid".

9.  Impact on Legacy ALTO Servers and ALTO Clients

9.1.  Impact on Endpoint Property Service

Since the property map and the ﬁltered property map deﬁned in this document provide a
functionality that covers the EPS deﬁned in
provide property map and ﬁltered property map in place of EPS. However, for the legacy
endpoint properties, it is recommended that ALTO servers also provide EPS so that legacy clients
can still be supported.

Section 11.4 of [RFC7285]

, ALTO servers may prefer to

9.2.  Impact on Resource-Speciﬁc Properties

Section 10.8 of [RFC7285]
 deﬁnes two categories of endpoint properties: "resource-speciﬁc" and
"global". Resource-speciﬁc property names are preﬁxed with the identiﬁer of the resource they
depend on, while global property names have no such preﬁx. The property map and the ﬁltered
property map speciﬁed in this document deﬁne similar categories of entity properties. The
diﬀerence is that entity property maps do not deﬁne "global" entity properties. Instead, they
deﬁne self-deﬁned entity properties as a special case of "resource-speciﬁc" entity properties,
where the speciﬁc resource is the property map itself. This means that self-deﬁned properties are
deﬁned within the scope of the property map.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

9.3.  Impact on Other Properties

In the present extension, properties can be deﬁned for sets of entity addresses, rather than just
individual endpoint addresses as initially deﬁned in
of a property. These sets can be, for example, hierarchical IP address blocks. For instance, a
property such as the ﬁctitious "geo-location" deﬁned for a set of IP addresses would have a value
corresponding to a location representative of all the addresses in this set.

. This might change the semantics

[RFC7285]

10.  Examples

In this document, the HTTP message bodies of all the examples use Unix-style line-ending
character (%x0A) as the line separator.

10.1.  Network Map

The examples in this section use a very simple default network map:

defaultpid:

ipv4:0.0.0.0/0 ipv6:::/0

pid1:

pid2:

pid3:

pid4:

ipv4:192.0.2.0/25

ipv4:192.0.2.0/27

ipv4:192.0.3.0/28

ipv4:192.0.3.16/28

Table 3: Example Default Network Map

And another simple alternative network map:

defaultpid:

ipv4:0.0.0.0/0 ipv6:::/0

pid1:

pid2:

ipv4:192.0.2.0/27

ipv4:192.0.3.0/27

Table 4: Example Alternative Network
Map

10.2.  Property Deﬁnitions

Beyond "pid", the examples in this section use four additional, ﬁctitious property types for entities
of domain type "ipv4": "countrycode", "ASN", "ISP", and "state". These properties are assumed to be
resource-agnostic so their name is identical to their type. The entities have the following values:

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

ISP

ASN

countrycode

state

ipv4:192.0.2.0/23:

BitsRus

-

us

ipv4:192.0.2.0/28:

ipv4:192.0.2.16/28:

ipv4:192.0.2.1:

ipv4:192.0.3.0/28:

ipv4:192.0.3.16/28:

-

-

-

-

-

65543

65543

-

65544

65544

-

-

-

-

-

-

NJ

CT

PA

TX

MN

Table 5: Example Property Values for Internet Address Domains

The examples in this section use the property "region" for the PID domain of the default network
map with the following values:

region

pid:defaultpid:

-

pid:pid1:

pid:pid2:

pid:pid3:

pid:pid4:

us-west

us-east

us-south

us-north

Table 6: Example Property Values for
Default Network Map's PID Domain

Note that "-" means the value of the property for the entity is "undeﬁned". So the entity would
inherit a value for this property by the inheritance rule if possible. For example, the value of the
"ISP" property for "ipv4:192.0.2.1" is "BitsRus" because of "ipv4:192.0.2.0/24". But the "region"
property for "pid:defaultpid" has no value because there is no entity from which it can inherit.

Similar to the PID domain of the default network map, the examples in this section use the
property "ASN" for the PID domain of the alternative network map with the following values:

pid:defaultpid:

pid:pid1:

ASN

-

65543

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

pid:pid2:

ASN

65544

Table 7: Example Property Values for
Alternative Network Map's PID Domain

10.3.  Information Resource Directory (IRD)

The following IRD deﬁnes ALTO Server information resources that are relevant to the Entity
Property Service. It provides a property map for the "ISP" and "ASN" properties. The server could
have provided a single property map for all four properties, but it does not, presumably because
the organization that runs the ALTO server believes that a client is not necessarily interested in
getting all four properties.

The server provides several ﬁltered property maps. The ﬁrst returns all four properties, and the
second returns only the "pid" property for the default network map and the "alt-network-map".

The ﬁltered property maps for the "ISP", "ASN", "countrycode", and "state" properties do not
depend on the default network map (it does not have a "uses" capability) because the deﬁnitions
of those properties do not depend on the default network map. The ﬁltered property map
providing the "pid" property does have a "uses" capability for the default network map because
the default network map deﬁnes the values of the "pid" property.

Note that for legacy clients, the ALTO server provides an Endpoint Property Service for the "pid"
property deﬁned for the endpoints of the default network map and the "alt-network-map".

The server provides another ﬁltered Property map resource, named "ane-dc-property-map", that
returns ﬁctitious properties named "storage-capacity", "ram", and "cpu" for ANEs that have a
persistent identiﬁer. The entity domain to which the ANEs belong is self-deﬁned and valid only
within the property map.

The other property maps in the returned IRD are shown here for purposes of illustration.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

 GET /directory HTTP/1.1
 Host: alto.example.com
 Accept: application/alto-directory+json,application/alto-error+json

 HTTP/1.1 200 OK
 Content-Length: 2713
 Content-Type: application/alto-directory+json

 {
   "meta" : {
     "default-alto-network-map" : "default-network-map"
   },
   "resources" : {
     "default-network-map" : {
       "uri" : "http://alto.example.com/networkmap/default",
       "media-type" : "application/alto-networkmap+json"
     },
     "alt-network-map" : {
       "uri" : "http://alto.example.com/networkmap/alt",
       "media-type" : "application/alto-networkmap+json"
     },
     "ia-property-map" : {
       "uri" : "http://alto.example.com/propmap/full/inet-ia",
       "media-type" : "application/alto-propmap+json",
       "capabilities" : {
         "mappings": {
           "ipv4": [ ".ISP", ".ASN" ],
           "ipv6": [ ".ISP", ".ASN" ]
         }
       }
     },
     "iacs-property-map" : {
       "uri" : "http://alto.example.com/propmap/lookup/inet-iacs",
       "media-type" : "application/alto-propmap+json",
       "accepts": "application/alto-propmapparams+json",
       "capabilities" : {
         "mappings": {
           "ipv4": [ ".ISP", ".ASN", ".countrycode", ".state" ],
           "ipv6": [ ".ISP", ".ASN", ".countrycode", ".state" ]
         }
       }
     },
     "region-property-map": {
       "uri": "http://alto.example.com/propmap/lookup/region",
       "media-type": "application/alto-propmap+json",
       "accepts": "application/alto-propmapparams+json",
       "uses" : [ "default-network-map", "alt-network-map" ],
       "capabilities": {
         "mappings": {
           "default-network-map.pid": [ ".region" ],
           "alt-network-map.pid": [ ".ASN" ]
         }
       }
     },
     "ip-pid-property-map" : {
       "uri" : "http://alto.example.com/propmap/lookup/pid",
       "media-type" : "application/alto-propmap+json",

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

       "accepts" : "application/alto-propmapparams+json",
       "uses" : [ "default-network-map", "alt-network-map" ],
       "capabilities" : {
         "mappings": {
           "ipv4": [ "default-network-map.pid",
                     "alt-network-map.pid" ],
           "ipv6": [ "default-network-map.pid",
                     "alt-network-map.pid" ]
         }
       }
     },
     "legacy-endpoint-property" : {
       "uri" : "http://alto.example.com/legacy/eps-pid",
       "media-type" : "application/alto-endpointprop+json",
       "accepts" : "application/alto-endpointpropparams+json",
       "capabilities" : {
         "properties" : [ "default-network-map.pid",
                          "alt-network-map.pid" ]
       }
     },
     "ane-dc-property-map": {
       "uri" : "http://alto.example.com/propmap/lookup/ane-dc",
       "media-type" : "application/alto-propmap+json",
       "accepts": "application/alto-propmapparams+json",
       "capabilities": {
         "mappings": {
           ".ane" : [ "storage-capacity", "ram", "cpu" ]
         }
       }
     }
   }
 }

Figure 1: Example IRD

10.4.  Full Property Map Example

The following example uses the properties and IRD deﬁned in Section 10.3 to retrieve a property
map for entities with the "ISP" and "ASN" properties.

Note that, to be compact, the response does not include the entity "ipv4:192.0.2.1" because values
of all those properties for this entity are inherited from other entities.

Also note that the entities "ipv4:192.0.2.0/28" and "ipv4:192.0.2.16/28" are merged into
"ipv4:192.0.2.0/27" because they have the same value of the "ASN" property. The same rule applies
to the entities "ipv4:192.0.3.0/28" and "ipv4:192.0.3.16/28". Both "ipv4:192.0.2.0/27" and
"ipv4:192.0.3.0/27" omit the value for the "ISP" property because it is inherited from
"ipv4:192.0.2.0/23".

GET /propmap/full/inet-ia HTTP/1.1
Host: alto.example.com
Accept: application/alto-propmap+json,application/alto-error+json

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Length: 418
Content-Type: application/alto-propmap+json

{
  "meta": {
    "dependent-vtags": [
      {"resource-id": "default-network-map",
       "tag": "3ee2cb7e8d63d9fab71b9b34cbf764436315542e"},
      {"resource-id": "alt-network-map",
       "tag": "c0ce023b8678a7b9ec00324673b98e54656d1f6d"}
    ]
  },
  "property-map": {
    "ipv4:192.0.2.0/23":   {".ISP": "BitsRus"},
    "ipv4:192.0.2.0/27":   {".ASN": "65543"},
    "ipv4:192.0.3.0/27":   {".ASN": "65544"}
  }
}

10.5.  Filtered Property Map Example #1

The following example uses the ﬁltered property map resource to request the "ISP", "ASN", and
"state" properties for several IPv4 addresses.

Note that the value of "state" for "ipv4:192.0.2.1" is the only explicitly deﬁned property; the other
values are all derived from the inheritance rules for Internet address entities.

POST /propmap/lookup/inet-iacs HTTP/1.1
Host: alto.example.com
Accept: application/alto-propmap+json,application/alto-error+json
Content-Length: 158
Content-Type: application/alto-propmapparams+json

{
  "entities" : [ "ipv4:192.0.2.0",
                 "ipv4:192.0.2.1",
                 "ipv4:192.0.2.17" ],
  "properties" : [ ".ISP", ".ASN", ".state" ]
}

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Length: 540
Content-Type: application/alto-propmap+json

{
  "meta": {
    "dependent-vtags": [
      {"resource-id": "default-network-map",
       "tag": "3ee2cb7e8d63d9fab71b9b34cbf764436315542e"},
      {"resource-id": "alt-network-map",
       "tag": "c0ce023b8678a7b9ec00324673b98e54656d1f6d"}
    ]
  },
  "property-map": {
    "ipv4:192.0.2.0":
           {".ISP": "BitsRus", ".ASN": "65543", ".state": "NJ"},
    "ipv4:192.0.2.1":
           {".ISP": "BitsRus", ".ASN": "65543", ".state": "PA"},
    "ipv4:192.0.2.17":
           {".ISP": "BitsRus", ".ASN": "65543", ".state": "CT"}
  }
}

10.6.  Filtered Property Map Example #2

The following example uses the ﬁltered property map resource to request the "ASN",
"countrycode", and "state" properties for several IPv4 preﬁxes.

Note that the property values for both entities "ipv4:192.0.2.0/26" and "ipv4:192.0.3.0/26" are not
explicitly deﬁned. They are inherited from the entity "ipv4:192.0.2.0/23".

Also note that some entities like "ipv4:192.0.2.0/28" and "ipv4:192.0.2.16/28" in the response are not
explicitly listed in the request. The response includes them because they are reﬁnements of the
requested entities and have diﬀerent values for the requested properties.

The entity "ipv4:192.0.4.0/26" is not included in the response because there are neither entities
from which it is inherited, nor entities inherited from it.

POST /propmap/lookup/inet-iacs HTTP/1.1
Host: alto.example.com
Accept: application/alto-propmap+json,application/alto-error+json
Content-Length: 174
Content-Type: application/alto-propmapparams+json

{
  "entities" : [ "ipv4:192.0.2.0/26",
                 "ipv4:192.0.3.0/26",
                 "ipv4:192.0.4.0/26" ],
  "properties" : [ ".ASN", ".countrycode", ".state" ]
}

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Length: 774
Content-Type: application/alto-propmap+json

{
  "meta": {
    "dependent-vtags": [
      {"resource-id": "default-network-map",
       "tag": "3ee2cb7e8d63d9fab71b9b34cbf764436315542e"},
      {"resource-id": "alt-network-map",
       "tag": "c0ce023b8678a7b9ec00324673b98e54656d1f6d"}
    ]
  },
  "property-map": {
    "ipv4:192.0.2.0/26":  {".countrycode": "us"},
    "ipv4:192.0.2.0/28":  {".ASN": "65543",
                           ".state": "NJ"},
    "ipv4:192.0.2.16/28": {".ASN": "65543",
                           ".state": "CT"},
    "ipv4:192.0.2.1":     {".state": "PA"},
    "ipv4:192.0.3.0/26":  {".countrycode": "us"},
    "ipv4:192.0.3.0/28":  {".ASN": "65544",
                           ".state": "TX"},
    "ipv4:192.0.3.16/28": {".ASN": "65544",
                           ".state": "MN"}
  }
}

10.7.  Filtered Property Map Example #3

The following example uses the ﬁltered property map resource to request the "default-network-
map.pid" property and the "alt-network-map.pid" property for a set of IPv4 addresses and
preﬁxes.

Note that the entity "ipv4:192.0.3.0/27" is decomposed into two entities: "ipv4:192.0.3.0/28" and
"ipv4:192.0.3.16/28", as they have diﬀerent "default-network-map.pid" property values.

POST /propmap/lookup/pid HTTP/1.1
Host: alto.example.com
Accept: application/alto-propmap+json,application/alto-error+json
Content-Length: 222
Content-Type: application/alto-propmapparams+json

{
  "entities" : [
                "ipv4:192.0.2.128",
                "ipv4:192.0.2.0/27",
                "ipv4:192.0.3.0/27" ],
  "properties" : [ "default-network-map.pid",
                   "alt-network-map.pid" ]
}

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Length: 774
Content-Type: application/alto-propmap+json

{
  "meta": {
    "dependent-vtags": [
      {"resource-id": "default-network-map",
       "tag": "3ee2cb7e8d63d9fab71b9b34cbf764436315542e"},
      {"resource-id": "alt-network-map",
       "tag": "c0ce023b8678a7b9ec00324673b98e54656d1f6d"}
    ]
  },
  "property-map": {
    "ipv4:192.0.2.128":   {"default-network-map.pid": "defaultpid",
                           "alt-network-map.pid": "defaultpid"},
    "ipv4:192.0.2.0/27":  {"default-network-map.pid": "pid2",
                           "alt-network-map.pid": "pid1"},
    "ipv4:192.0.3.0/28":  {"default-network-map.pid": "pid3",
                           "alt-network-map.pid": "pid2"},
    "ipv4:192.0.3.16/28": {"default-network-map.pid": "pid4",
                           "alt-network-map.pid": "pid2"}
  }
}

10.8.  Filtered Property Map Example #4

Here is an example of using the ﬁltered property map to query the regions for several PIDs in
"default-network-map". The "region" property is speciﬁed as a self-deﬁned property, i.e., the values
of this property are deﬁned by this property map resource.

POST /propmap/lookup/region HTTP/1.1
Host: alto.example.com
Accept: application/alto-propmap+json,application/alto-error+json
Content-Length: 132
Content-Type: application/alto-propmapparams+json

{
  "entities" : ["default-network-map.pid:pid1",
                "default-network-map.pid:pid2"],
  "properties" : [ ".region" ]
}

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 40

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Length: 326
Content-Type: application/alto-propmap+json

{
  "meta" : {
    "dependent-vtags" : [
       {"resource-id": "default-network-map",
        "tag": "7915dc0290c2705481c491a2b4ffbec482b3cf62"}
    ]
  },
  "property-map": {
    "default-network-map.pid:pid1": {
      ".region": "us-west"
    },
    "default-network-map.pid:pid2": {
      ".region": "us-east"
    }
  }
}

10.9.  Filtered Property Map for ANEs Example #5

The following example uses the ﬁltered property map resource "ane-dc-property-map" to request
properties "storage-capacity" and "cpu" on several ANEs deﬁned in this property map.

POST /propmap/lookup/ane-dc HTTP/1.1
Host: alto.example.com
Accept: application/alto-propmap+json,application/alto-error+json
Content-Length: 155
Content-Type: application/alto-propmapparams+json

{
  "entities" : [".ane:dc21",
                ".ane:dc45-srv9",
                ".ane:dc6-srvcluster8"],
  "properties" : [ "storage-capacity", "cpu"]
}

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 41

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Length: 295
Content-Type: application/alto-propmap+json

{
  "meta" : {
  },
  "property-map": {
    ".ane:dc21":
      {"storage-capacity" : 40000, "cpu" : 500},
    ".ane:dc45-srv9":
      {"storage-capacity" : 100, "cpu" : 20},
    ".ane:dc6-srvcluster8":
      {"storage-capacity" : 6000, "cpu" : 100}
  }
}

11.  Security Considerations

Both property map and ﬁltered property map deﬁned in this document ﬁt into the architecture of
the ALTO base protocol, and hence the Security Considerations (
base protocol fully apply: authenticity and integrity of ALTO information (i.e., authenticity and
integrity of property maps), potential undesirable guidance from authenticated ALTO
information (e.g., potentially imprecise or even wrong value of a property such as geo-location),
conﬁdentiality of ALTO information (e.g., exposure of a potentially sensitive entity property such
as geo-location), privacy for ALTO users, and availability of ALTO services should all be
considered.

Section 15 of [RFC7285]

) of the

ALTO clients using this extension should in addition be aware that the entity properties they
require may convey more details than the endpoint properties conveyed by using
[RFC7285]
Client requests may reveal details of their activity or plans thereof such that a malicious Server,
which is in a position to do so, may monetize or use for attacks or undesired surveillance.
Likewise, ALTO Servers expose entities and properties related to speciﬁc parts of the
infrastructure that reveal details of capabilities, locations, or resource availability. These details
may be maliciously used for competition purposes, or to cause resource shortage or undesired
publication.

.

To address these concerns, the property maps provided by this extension require additional
attention to two security considerations discussed in: Section
Guidance from Authenticated ALTO Information")
of ALTO Information")
[RFC7285]
highly demanding queries should be addressed as speciﬁed in

. Threats to the availability of the ALTO service caused by

15.2 ("Potential Undesirable

Section 15.5 of [RFC7285]

 and Section

[RFC7285]

 of

 of

.

15.3 ("Conﬁdentiality

•

Potential undesirable guidance from authenticated ALTO information: this can be caused by
Property values that change over time and thus lead to performance degradation or system
rejection of application requests.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 42

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

To avoid these consequences, a more robust ALTO client should adopt and extend protection
Section 15.2 of [RFC7285]
strategies speciﬁed in
when a particular ALTO value that the Client depends on changes, it is
 that
both the ALTO Client and ALTO Server using this extension implement "Application-Layer
Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) Incremental Updates Using Server-Sent Events (SSE)"

. For example, to be notiﬁed immediately

RECOMMENDED

[RFC8895]

.

•

Section 15 of [RFC7285]

Conﬁdentiality of ALTO information: as discussed in
have sensitive customer-speciﬁc information. If this is the case, an ALTO Server may limit
access to those properties by providing several diﬀerent property maps. For a nonsensitive
properties, the ALTO Server would provide a URI that accepts requests from any client.
Sensitive properties, on the other hand, would only be available via a secure URI that would
require client authentication. Another way is to expose highly abstracted, coarse-grained
property values to all Clients while restricting access to URIs that expose more ﬁne-grained
values to authorized Clients. Restricted access URIs may be gathered in delegate IRDs as
speciﬁed in

Section 9.2.4 of [RFC7285]

, properties may

.

Also, while technically this document does not introduce any security risks not inherent in
the Endpoint Property Service deﬁned by
, the GET-mode property map resource
deﬁned in this document does make it easier for a client to download large numbers of
property values. Accordingly, an ALTO Server should limit GET-mode property maps to
properties that do not contain sensitive data.

[RFC7285]

MUST

Section 12 of this document speciﬁes that the ALTO service provider
 be aware of the
potential sensitivity of exposed entity domains and properties. Section 12.3.2 (ALTO Entity
Domain Type Registration Process) of this document speciﬁes that when the registration of
an entity domain type is requested of IANA, the request
that show awareness of how the exposed entity addresses may be related to private
information about an ALTO client or an infrastructure service provider. Likewise, Section
12.4 (ALTO Entity Property Types Registry) of this document speciﬁes that when the
registration of a property type is requested of IANA, the request
considerations that explain why this property type is required for ALTO-based operations.

 include security

 include security considerations

MUST

MUST

The risk of ALTO information being leaked to malicious Clients or third parties is addressed
similarly to
[RFC8446]

. ALTO clients and servers

Section 7 of [RFC8896]

 support TLS 1.3

SHOULD

.

12.  IANA Considerations

This document deﬁnes additional application/alto-* media types, which are listed in Table 8. It
deﬁnes the "ALTO Entity Domain Types" registry that extends the "ALTO Address Types" registry
deﬁned in
"ALTO Endpoint Property Types" registry deﬁned in

. It also deﬁnes the "ALTO Entity Property Types" registry that extends the
[RFC7285]

[RFC7285]

.

Type

Subtype

Speciﬁcation

application

alto-propmap+json

Section 7.1

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 43

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

Type

Subtype

Speciﬁcation

application

alto-propmapparams+json

Section 8.3

Table 8: Additional ALTO Media Types

12.1.  application/alto-propmap+json Media Type

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

alto-propmap+json

Required parameters:

n/a

Optional parameters:

n/a

Encoding considerations:

Encoding considerations are identical to those speciﬁed for the "application/json" media type.
See

[RFC8259]

.

Security considerations:

Security considerations related to the generation and consumption of ALTO Protocol
messages are discussed in

 and Section 11 of this document.

Section 15 of [RFC7285]

Interoperability considerations:

n/a

Published speciﬁcation:

This document is the speciﬁcation for this media type. See Section 7.1.

Applications that use this media type:
ALTO servers and ALTO clients
applications, when the queried resource is a property map, whether ﬁltered or not.

, either standalone or embedded within other

[RFC7285]

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:

n/a

Additional information:
Magic number(s):

n/a

File extension(s):

n/a

Macintosh ﬁle type code(s):

n/a

Person & email address to contact for further information:

See Authors' Addresses section.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 44

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

Intended usage:
COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

n/a

Author:

See Authors' Addresses section.

Change controller:

Internet Engineering Task Force (iesg@ietf.org).

12.2.  alto-propmapparams+json Media Type

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

alto-propmapparams+json

Required parameters:

n/a

Optional parameters:

n/a

Encoding considerations:

Encoding considerations are identical to those speciﬁed for the "application/json" media type.
See

[RFC8259]

.

Security considerations:

Security considerations related to the generation and consumption of ALTO Protocol
messages are discussed in

 and Section 11 of this document.

Section 15 of [RFC7285]

Interoperability considerations:

n/a

Published speciﬁcation:

This document is the speciﬁcation for this media type. See Section 8.3.

Applications that use this media type:
ALTO servers and ALTO clients
applications, when the queried resource is a ﬁltered property map. This media type indicates
the data format used by the ALTO client to supply the property map ﬁltering parameters.

, either standalone or embedded within other

[RFC7285]

Fragment identiﬁer considerations:

n/a

Additional information:
Magic number(s):

n/a

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 45

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

File extension(s):

n/a

Macintosh ﬁle type code(s):

n/a

Person & email address to contact for further information:

See Authors' Addresses section.

Intended usage:
COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

n/a

Author:

See Authors' Addresses section.

Change controller:

Internet Engineering Task Force (iesg@ietf.org).

12.3.  ALTO Entity Domain Types Registry

IANA has created and will maintain the "ALTO Entity Domain Types" registry listed in Table 9. The
ﬁrst row lists information items that must be provided with each registered entity domain type.
Section 12.3.2 speciﬁes how to document these items and in addition provides guidance on the
security considerations item that must be documented.

Identiﬁer

ipv4

ipv6

Entity
Identiﬁer
Encoding

See Section
6.1.1

See Section
6.1.2

Hierarchy and
Inheritance

Media Type of
Deﬁning Resource

Mapping to
ALTO Address
Type

See Section 6.1.3

See Section 6.1.3

application/alto-
networkmap+json

application/alto-
networkmap+json

application/alto-
networkmap+json

true

true

false

pid

See Section 6.2

None

Table 9: ALTO Entity Domain Types

This registry serves two purposes. First, it ensures uniqueness of identiﬁers referring to ALTO
entity domain types. Second, it states the requirements for allocated entity domain types.

As speciﬁed in Section 5.1.1, identiﬁers preﬁxed with "priv:" are reserved for Private Use without a
need to register with IANA

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 46

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

12.3.1.  Consistency Procedure between ALTO Address Types Registry and ALTO Entity
Domain Types Registry

One potential issue of introducing the "ALTO Entity Domain Types" registry is its relationship with
the "ALTO Address Types" registry already deﬁned in
entity identiﬁer of a type of an entity domain registered in the "ALTO Entity Domain Types"
registry
precisely deﬁne and guarantee the consistency between "ALTO Address Types" registry and "ALTO
Entity Domain Types" registry.

 match an address type deﬁned in "ALTO Address Types" registry. It is necessary to

Section 14.4 of [RFC7285]

. In particular, the

MAY

We deﬁne that the "ALTO Entity Domain Types" registry is consistent with "ALTO Address Types"
registry if two conditions are satisﬁed:

•

When an address type is already registered or is able to be registered in the "ALTO Address
Types" registry
 be used when a corresponding entity
, the same identiﬁer
domain type is registered in the "ALTO Entity Domain Types" registry.

[RFC7285]

MUST

•

If an ALTO entity domain type has the same identiﬁer as an ALTO address type, their address
encodings

 be compatible.

MUST

To achieve this consistency, the following items
entity domain type in a future document:

MUST

 be checked before registering a new ALTO

•

Whether the "ALTO Address Types" registry contains an address type that can be used as an
identiﬁer for the candidate entity domain type identiﬁer. This has been done for the
identiﬁers "ipv4" and "ipv6" of Table 9.

•

Whether the candidate entity domain type identiﬁer can potentially be an endpoint address
[RFC7285]
type, as deﬁned in Sections 2.1 and 2.2 of

.

When a new ALTO entity domain type is registered, the consistency with the "ALTO Address
Types" registry

 be ensured by the following procedure:

MUST

•

Test: Do corresponding entity domain type identiﬁers match a known "network" address
type?
◦

If yes (e.g., cell, MAC, or socket addresses):
▪

Test: Is such an address type present in the "ALTO Address Types" registry?
▪

If yes: Set the new ALTO entity domain type identiﬁer to be the found ALTO address
type identiﬁer.

▪

If no: Deﬁne a new ALTO entity domain type identiﬁer and use it to register a new
address type in the "ALTO Address Types" registry following

Section 14.4 of [RFC7285]

.

▪

Use the new ALTO entity domain type identiﬁer to register a new ALTO entity domain
type in the "ALTO Entity Domain Types" registry following Section 12.3.2 of this
document.

◦

If no (e.g., PID name, ANE name, or "countrycode"): Proceed with the ALTO Entity Domain
Type registration as described in Section 12.3.2.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 47

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

12.3.2.  ALTO Entity Domain Type Registration Process

New ALTO entity domain types are assigned after IETF Review
 to ensure that proper
documentation regarding the new ALTO entity domain types and their security considerations
has been provided. RFCs deﬁning new entity domain types
registered type of domain is encoded as an EntityID and, if applicable, provide the rules for
deﬁning the entity hierarchy and property inheritance. Updates and deletions of ALTO entity
domains types follow the same procedure.

 indicate how an entity in a

[RFC8126]

MUST

Registered ALTO entity domain type identiﬁers
speciﬁed in Section 5.1.2. Identiﬁers are to be recorded and displayed as strings.

 conform to the syntactical requirements

MUST

Requests to IANA to add a new value to the "ALTO Entity Domain Types" registry
following information:

MUST

 include the

Identiﬁer:

The name of the desired ALTO entity domain type.

Entity Identiﬁer Encoding:

The procedure for encoding the identiﬁer of an entity of the

registered domain type as an EntityID (see Section 5.1.3). If corresponding entity identiﬁers of
an entity domain type match a known "network" address type, the Entity Identiﬁer Encoding
of this domain identiﬁer
same identiﬁer registered in the "ALTO Address Types" registry
an individual entity identiﬁer and the corresponding full-length preﬁx
aliases for the same entity.

 include both Address Encoding and Preﬁx Encoding of the

. To deﬁne properties,
 be considered

[RFC7285]

MUST

MUST

Hierarchy:

If the entities form a hierarchy, the procedure for determining that hierarchy.

Inheritance:

If entities can inherit property values from other entities, the procedure for

determining that inheritance.

Media type of deﬁning information resource:

Some entity domain types allow an entity

domain name to be combined with an information resource name to deﬁne a resource-
speciﬁc entity domain. Such an information resource is called a "deﬁning information
resource" and is deﬁned in Section 4.6. For each entity domain type, the potential deﬁning
information resources have one common media type. This unique common media type is
speciﬁc to the entity domain type and

 be speciﬁed.

MUST

Mapping to ALTO Address Type:

A boolean value to indicate if the entity domain type can be

mapped to the ALTO address type with the same identiﬁer.

Security Considerations:

In some usage scenarios, entity identiﬁers carried in ALTO Protocol

messages may reveal information about an ALTO client or an ALTO service provider.
Applications and ALTO service providers using addresses of the registered type should be
cognizant of how (or if) the addressing scheme relates to private information and network
proximity.

IANA has registered the identiﬁers "ipv4", "ipv6", and "pid", as shown in Table 9.

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 48

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

12.4.  ALTO Entity Property Types Registry

IANA has created and will maintain the "ALTO Entity Property Types" registry, which is listed in
Table 10.

This registry extends the "ALTO Endpoint Property Types" registry, deﬁned in
property type is deﬁned for one or more entity domains, rather than just for IPv4 and IPv6
Internet address domains. An entry in this registry is an ALTO entity property type deﬁned in
Section 5.2.1. Thus, a registered ALTO entity property type identiﬁer
syntactical requirements speciﬁed in that section.

 conform to the

[RFC7285]

MUST

, in that a

As speciﬁed in Section 5.2.1, identiﬁers preﬁxed with "priv:" are reserved for Private Use without a
need to register with IANA.

The ﬁrst row of Table 10 lists information items that must be provided with each registered entity
property type.

Identiﬁer

Intended Semantics

Media Type of Deﬁning Resource

pid

See

Section 7.1.1 of [RFC7285]

application/alto-networkmap+json

Table 10: ALTO Entity Property Types

 to ensure that proper
New ALTO entity property types are assigned after IETF Review
documentation regarding the new ALTO entity property types and their security considerations
has been provided. RFCs deﬁning new entity property types
registered type is encoded as a property name. Updates and deletions of ALTO entity property
types follow the same procedure.

 indicate how a property of a

[RFC8126]

SHOULD

Requests to IANA to add a new value to the registry

MUST

 include the following information:

Identiﬁer:

The identiﬁer for the desired ALTO entity property type. The format

MUST

 be as

deﬁned in Section 5.2.1 of this document.

Intended Semantics:

ALTO entity properties carry with them semantics to guide their usage by
 provide guidance to both ALTO

ALTO clients. Hence, a document deﬁning a new type
service providers and applications utilizing ALTO clients as to how values of the registered
ALTO entity property should be interpreted.

SHOULD

Media type of deﬁning information resource:

when the property type allows values to be
deﬁned relative to a given information resource, the latter is referred to as the "deﬁning
information resource"; see the description in Section 4.7. For each property type, the potential
deﬁning information resources have one common media type. This unique common media
type is speciﬁc to the property type and

 be speciﬁed.

MUST

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 49

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

Security Considerations: ALTO entity properties expose information to ALTO clients. ALTO

service providers should be cognizant of the security ramiﬁcations related to the exposure of
an entity property.

In security considerations, the request should also discuss the sensitivity of the information and
why it is required for ALTO-based operations. Regarding this discussion, the request
follow the recommendations of the "ALTO Endpoint Property Types" registry in
[RFC7285]

SHOULD
Section 14.3 of

.

IANA has registered the identiﬁer "pid", which is listed in Table 10. Semantics for this property are
documented in
identiﬁer are considered, as it is exposed with the Network Map Service deﬁned and mandated in
[RFC7285]

. No security issues related to the exposure of a "pid"

Section 7.1.1 of [RFC7285]

.

13.  References

13.1.  Normative References

[ISO3166-1]

[RFC2119]

[RFC3986]

[RFC4291]

[RFC4632]

[RFC5952]

[RFC7285]

International Organization for Standardization "Codes for the representation of
names of countries and their subdivisions -- Part 1: Country codes" ISO
3166-1:2020

, August 2020.

,

,

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
,
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
,
, March 1997,
.
rfc2119>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

, and
Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
,
,
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identiﬁer (URI):
<https://

, January 2005,

,

,

Hinden, R.
10.17487/RFC4291

 and

S. Deering "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" RFC 4291 DOI

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4291>

,
, February 2006,

,

 and

T. Li "Classless Inter-domain Routing (CIDR): The Internet Address

Fuller, V.
,
Assignment and Aggregation Plan" BCP 122 RFC 4632 DOI 10.17487/RFC4632
August 2006,

,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4632>

,

,

,

Kawamura, S.
Representation" RFC 5952 DOI 10.17487/RFC5952
.
editor.org/info/rfc5952>

 and
,

,

,

M. Kawashima "A Recommendation for IPv6 Address Text

, August 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

,
, and

,
Alimi, R., Ed. Penno, R., Ed. Yang, Y., Ed. Kiesel, S. Previdi, S. Roome, W.
Shalunov, S.
Protocol" RFC 7285 DOI 10.17487/RFC7285
.
editor.org/info/rfc7285>

R. Woundy "Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)
<https://www.rfc-

, September 2014,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 50

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8259]

[RFC8446]

[RFC8895]

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>
.

, and

,

,

,

,

, June

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP 14
,
,
RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
,
rfc8174>
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

Bray, T., Ed. "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data Interchange Format"
,
STD 90 RFC 8259 DOI 10.17487/RFC8259
editor.org/info/rfc8259>
.

<https://www.rfc-

, December 2017,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>
.

, August 2018,

,

 and

Y. Yang "Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)

Roome, W.
Incremental Updates Using Server-Sent Events (SSE)" RFC 8895 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8895

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8895>

, November 2020,

,

,

,

13.2.  Informative References

[PATH-VECTOR]

[RFC3849]

[RFC5511]

[RFC5737]

[RFC7921]

[RFC8896]

[RFC9241]

Gao, K. Lee, Y. Randriamasy, S. Yang, Y. R.

,

,

,

, and

J. J. Zhang "An ALTO Extension:

,

,
Path Vector" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-alto-path-vector-25
March 2022,
.
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-alto-path-vector-25>

, 20

,

,

Huston, G. Lord, A.
Documentation" RFC 3849 DOI 10.17487/RFC3849
.
editor.org/info/rfc3849>

, and

,

,

,

P. Smith "IPv6 Address Preﬁx Reserved for

, July 2004,

<https://www.rfc-

,

Farrel, A. "Routing Backus-Naur Form (RBNF): A Syntax Used to Form Encoding
Rules in Various Routing Protocol Speciﬁcations" RFC 5511 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5511

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5511>

, April 2009,

,

,

,
Arkko, J. Cotton, M.
,
Documentation" RFC 5737 DOI 10.17487/RFC5737
.
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5737>

, and

,

,

L. Vegoda "IPv4 Address Blocks Reserved for

, January 2010,

<https://

,

,
Atlas, A. Halpern, J. Hares, S. Ward, D.
,
Interface to the Routing System" RFC 7921 DOI 10.17487/RFC7921
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7921>

, and
,

,

,

T. Nadeau "An Architecture for the

, June 2016,

,

N. Schwan "Application-Layer
Randriamasy, S. Yang, R. Wu, Q. Deng, L.
,
Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO) Cost Calendar" RFC 8896 DOI 10.17487/RFC8896
November 2020,
.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8896>

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,
Seedorf, J. Yang, Y. Ma, K. Peterson, J.
Interconnection (CDNI) Footprint and Capabilities Advertisement Using
,
Application-Layer Traﬃc Optimization (ALTO)" RFC 9241 DOI 10.17487/RFC9241
July 2022,

.
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9241>

J. Zhang "Content Delivery Network

, and

,

,

,

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 51

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

Appendix A.  Features Introduced with the Entity Property
Maps Extension

The entity property maps extension described in this document introduces a number of features
that are summarized in table below. The ﬁrst column provides the name of the feature. The
second column provides the section number of this document that gives a high-level description
of the feature. The third column provides the section number of this document that gives a
normative description relating to the feature, when applicable.

Feature

Entity

High-Level
Description

Related Normative
Description

Section 3.1

Section 5.1.3

Entity domain

Section 3.2

Entity domain type

Section 3.2.1

Section 5.1.1

Entity domain name

Section 3.2.2

Section 5.1.2

Entity property type

Section 3.3

Sections 5.2, 5.2.1, 5.2.2, and
5.2.3

Entity property map

Section 3.4

Sections 7 and 8

Resource-speciﬁc entity domain
name

Resource-speciﬁc entity property
value

Entity Hierarchy and property
inheritance

Section 4.2

Sections 5.1.2 and 5.1.2.1

Section 4.3

Section 5.2.3

Section 4.4

Section 5.1.4

Deﬁning information resource

Sections 4.6 and 4.7

Sections 12.3.2 and 12.4

Table 11: Features Introduced with ALTO Entity Property Maps

Acknowledgments

Dawn Chen
 and
Qiao Xiang Shawn Lin
,

The authors would like to thank
drafts. Thank you also to
thanks to
 and
and suggestions for improving this document, to
Duke
which further helped to enrich this document.

Luis Contreras

Danny Perez

Shenshen Chen
Xin Wang
, and

 for their contributions to earlier
 for fruitful discussions. Last, big
 for their substantial working group review feedback

Vijay Gurbani

, ALTO WG Chair, and

Martin

, Transport Area Director, for their thorough review, discussions, guidance, and shepherding,

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 52

RFC 9240

Entity Property Maps

July 2022

Authors' Addresses

Wendy Roome
Nokia Bell Labs (Retired)
124 Burlington Rd
Murray Hill NJ 07974
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

 +1-908-464-6975
 wendy@wdroome.com

Sabine Randriamasy
Nokia Bell Labs
Route de Villejust
91460 NOZAY
France
Email:

 Sabine.Randriamasy@nokia-bell-labs.com

Y. Richard Yang
Yale University
51 Prospect Street
New Haven CT 06511
,
United States of America
Phone:
Email:

 +1-203-432-6400
 yry@cs.yale.edu

Jingxuan Jensen Zhang
Tongji University
4800 Cao'An Hwy
Shanghai
201804
China
Email:

 jingxuan.n.zhang@gmail.com

Kai Gao
Sichuan University
No.24 South Section 1, Yihuan Road
Chengdu
610000
China
Email:

 kaigao@scu.edu.cn

Roome, et al.

Standards Track

Page 53

