Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9811
6712, 9480
Standards Track
July 2025
2070-1721
H. Brockhaus
Siemens

D. von Oheimb
Siemens

M. Ounsworth
Entrust

J. Gray
Entrust

RFC 9811
Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure -- HTTP
Transfer for the Certificate Management Protocol
(CMP)

Abstract

This document describes how to layer the Certificate Management Protocol (CMP) over HTTP.

It includes the updates to RFC 6712 specified in Section 3 of RFC 9480; these updates introduce
CMP URIs using a well-known prefix. It obsoletes RFC 6712; and, together with RFC 9810, it also
obsoletes RFC 9480.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9811
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9811

HTTP Transfer for CMP

July 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Changes Made by RFC 9480

1.2.  Changes Made by This Document

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

3.  HTTP-Based Protocol

3.1.  General Form

3.2.  Media Type

3.3.  Communication Workflow

3.4.  HTTP Request-URI

3.5.  Pushing of Announcements

4.  Implementation Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  IANA Considerations

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

7.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

5

6

7

7

8

8

8

9

10

10

The Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)
mechanism to enable End Entities (EEs), Registration Authorities (RAs), and Certification
Authorities (CAs) to pass PKIMessage structures between them.

 requires a well-defined transfer

[RFC9810]

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9811

HTTP Transfer for CMP

July 2025

The first version of the CMP specification
transfer protocol layer on top of TCP. Its features were simple transfer-level error handling and a
mechanism to poll for outstanding PKI messages. Additionally, it was mentioned that PKI
messages could also be conveyed using file-, email-, and HTTP-based transfer, but those were not
specified in detail.

 included a brief description of a simple

[RFC2510]

Since the second version of the CMP specification
mechanism, the need for a transfer protocol providing this functionality vanished. The
remaining features CMP requires from its transfer protocols are connection and error handling.

 incorporated its own polling

[RFC4210]

CMP can benefit from utilizing reliable transport, as it requires connection and error handling
from the transfer protocol. All these features are covered by HTTP. Additionally, delayed delivery
of CMP response messages may be handled at transfer level, regardless of the message contents.
Since
to cover all types of PKI management transactions, delays detected at application level may also
be handled within CMP, using pollReq and pollRep messages.

 extends the polling mechanism specified in the second version of

CMP [RFC4210]

[RFC9480]

 and

[RFC9112]

[RFC9110]

The usage of HTTP (e.g., HTTP/1.1 as specified in
messages exclusively uses the POST method for requests, effectively tunneling CMP over HTTP.
 for best current practice
While this is generally considered bad practice (see
on building protocols with HTTP) and should not be emulated, there are good reasons to do so
for transferring CMP. HTTP is used as it is generally easy to implement and it is able to traverse
network borders utilizing ubiquitous proxies. Most importantly, HTTP is already commonly used
in existing CMP implementations. Other HTTP request methods, such as GET, are not used
because PKI management operations can only be triggered using CMP's PKI messages, which
need to be transferred using a POST request.

) for transferring CMP

RFC 9205 [BCP56]

With its status codes, HTTP provides needed error reporting capabilities. General problems on
the server side, as well as those directly caused by the respective request, can be reported to the
client.

As CMP implements a transaction identification (transactionID), identifying transactions
spanning over more than just a single request/response pair, the statelessness of HTTP is not
blocking its usage as the transfer protocol for CMP messages.

1.1.  Changes Made by RFC 9480

CMP Updates [RFC9480]
operations specified in the

 updated

Section 3.6 of [RFC6712]
Lightweight CMP Profile [RFC9483]

, supporting the PKI management
, in the following areas:

•

Introduced the HTTP URI path prefix '/.well-known/cmp'.

•

Added options for extending the URI structure with further segments and defined a new
protocol registry group to that aim.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9811

HTTP Transfer for CMP

July 2025

1.2.  Changes Made by This Document

This document obsoletes
as described in Section 1.1 of this document. Additionally, it adds the following changes:

. It includes the changes specified in

[RFC6712]

Section 3 of [RFC9480]
,

•

Removed the requirement to support HTTP/1.0
RFC 9205

[BCP56]
.

[RFC1945]

 in accordance with Section 4.1 of

•

Implementations
Section 3.1.

MUST

 forward CMP messages when an HTTP error status code occurs; see

•

Removed
specification.

Section 3.8 of [RFC6712]

 as it contains information redundant with current HTTP

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  HTTP-Based Protocol

For direct interaction between two entities, where a reliable transport protocol like TCP
[RFC9293]
 be utilized for conveying CMP messages. This
specification requires using the POST method (Section 3.1) and the "Content-Type" header field
(Section 3.2), which are available since HTTP/1.0

 is available, HTTP

[RFC9110] SHOULD

[RFC1945]
.

Note: In some situations, CMP requires multiple request/response pairs to perform a PKI
management operation. Their affiliation with a PKI management operation is indicated by a
transaction identifier in the CMP message header (see transactionID described in
[RFC9810]

). For details on how to transfer multiple requests, see Section 4.11 of RFC 9205

Section 5.1.1 of
[BCP56]
.

3.1.  General Form

 PKIMessage (

[ITU.X690.2021]

A DER-encoded
content of an HTTP POST request. If this HTTP request is successful, the server returns the CMP
response in the content of the HTTP response. The HTTP response status code in this case
MUST
be 200 (OK); other Successful 2xx status codes
responses to pushed CMP announcement messages described in Section 3.5 utilize the status
codes 201 and 202 to identify whether the received information was processed.

 be used for this purpose. HTTP

Section 5.1 of [RFC9810] MUST

 be sent as the

MUST NOT

)

While Redirection 3xx status codes
enabled to automatically follow them after careful consideration of possible security
implications. As described in Section 5, the 301 (Moved Permanently) status code could be
misused for permanent denial of service.

 be supported by implementations, clients should only be

MAY

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9811

HTTP Transfer for CMP

July 2025

 be used to inform the client
All applicable Client Error 4xx or Server Error 5xx status codes
about errors. Whenever a client receives an HTTP response with a status code in the 2xx, 4xx, or
5xx ranges, it
PKIMessage.

 support handling response message content containing a CMP response

MUST

MAY

3.2.  Media Type

The Internet media type "application/pkixcmp"
field when conveying a PKIMessage.

MUST

 be set in the HTTP "Content-Type" header

3.3.  Communication Workflow

In CMP, most communication is initiated by the EEs where every CMP request triggers a CMP
response message from the CA or RA.

The CMP announcement messages described in Section 3.5 are an exception. Their creation may
be triggered by certain events or done on a regular basis by a CA. The recipient of the
announcement only replies with an HTTP status code acknowledging the receipt or indicating an
error, but not with a CMP response.

 be
If the receipt of an HTTP request is not confirmed by receiving an HTTP response, it
assumed that the transferred CMP message was not successfully delivered to its destination.

MUST

3.4.  HTTP Request-URI

Each CMP server on a PKI management entity supporting HTTP or HTTPS transfer
the use of the path prefix '/.well-known/' as defined in
ease interworking in a multi-vendor environment.

 support
 and the registered name 'cmp' to

[RFC8615]

MUST

CMP clients have to be configured with sufficient information to form the CMP server URI. This
is at least the authority portion of the URI, e.g., 'www.example.com:80', or the full operation path
segment of the PKI management entity. Additionally, path segments
registered application name as part of the full operation path to provide further distinction. The
path segment 'p' followed by an arbitraryLabel <name> could, for example, support the
differentiation of specific CAs or certificate profiles. Further path segments, e.g., as specified in
the Lightweight CMP Profile
operationLabel <operation>. The following list shows examples of valid full CMP URIs:

, could indicate PKI management operations using an

 be added after the

[RFC9483]

MAY

•

http://www.example.com/.well-known/cmp

•

http://www.example.com/.well-known/cmp/<operation>

•

http://www.example.com/.well-known/cmp/p/<name>

•

http://www.example.com/.well-known/cmp/p/<name>/<operation>

Note that https can also be used instead of http; see
5)
.

item 5 in the Security Considerations (Section

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9811

HTTP Transfer for CMP

July 2025

3.5.  Pushing of Announcements

A CMP server may create event-triggered announcements or generate them on a regular basis. It
 utilize HTTP transfer to convey them to a suitable recipient. In this use case, the CMP server
MAY
acts as an HTTP client, and the recipient needs to utilize an HTTP server. As no request messages
are specified for those announcements, they can only be pushed to the recipient.

If an EE wants to poll for a potential CA Key Update Announcement or the current Certificate
Revocation List (CRL), a PKI Information Request using a general message as described in
Appendix D.5 of [RFC9810]

 can be used.

When pushing announcement messages, PKIMessage structures
an HTTP POST request.

MUST

 be sent as the content of

Suitable recipients for CMP announcements might, for example, be repositories storing the
announced information, such as directory services. Those services listen for incoming messages,
utilizing the same HTTP Request-URI scheme as defined in Section 3.4.

The following types of PKIMessage are announcements that may be pushed by a CA. The
Section 5.1.2 of [RFC9810]
prefixed numbers reflect ASN.1 tags of the PKIBody structure (

).

   [15] CA Key Update Announcement
   [16] Certificate Announcement
   [17] Revocation Announcement
   [18] CRL Announcement

CMP announcement messages do not require any CMP response. However, the recipient
acknowledge receipt with an HTTP response having an appropriate status code and empty
content. When not receiving such a response, it
 be assumed that the delivery was not
successful. If applicable, the sending side
 try sending the announcement again after waiting
for an appropriate time span.

MUST

MUST

MAY

If the announced issue was successfully stored in a database or was already present, the answer
MUST

 be an HTTP response with a 201 (Created) status code and empty content.

In case the announced information was only accepted for further processing, the status code of
the returned HTTP response
 also be 202 (Accepted). After an appropriate delay, the sender
may then try to send the announcement again and may repeat this until it receives a
confirmation that it has been successfully processed. The appropriate duration of the delay and
the option to increase it between consecutive attempts should be carefully considered.

MAY

A receiver

MUST

 answer with a suitable 4xx or 5xx error code when a problem occurs.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9811

HTTP Transfer for CMP

July 2025

4.  Implementation Considerations

Implementers should be aware that other implementations might exist that use a different
approach for transferring CMP over HTTP. Further, implementations based on earlier
documents that led to
type. Conforming implementations

 might use an unregistered "application/pkixcmp-poll" media
 handle this type like "application/pkixcmp".

[RFC6712]

MAY

5.  Security Considerations

All security considerations in HTTP
by implementers and users:

[RFC9110]

 apply. The following items need to be considered

1.

There is the risk for denial-of-service attacks through resource consumption by opening
many connections to an HTTP server. Therefore, idle connections should be terminated
after an appropriate timeout; this may also depend on the available free resources.

2.

[RFC5246] [RFC8446]

Without being encapsulated in effective security protocols, such as Transport Layer Security
(TLS)
protection at the HTTP level. Therefore, information from the HTTP should not be used to
change state of the transaction, regardless of whether any mechanism was used to ensure
the authenticity or integrity of HTTP messages (e.g., TLS or HTTP digests).

, or without using HTTP digest

, there is no integrity

[RFC9530]

3.

Client users should be aware that storing the target location of an HTTP response with the
301 (Moved Permanently) status code could be exploited by a meddler-in-the-middle
attacker trying to block them permanently from contacting the correct server.

4.

If no measures to authenticate and protect the HTTP responses to pushed announcement
messages are in place, their information regarding the announcement's processing state
may not be trusted. In that case, the overall design of the PKI system must not depend on the
announcements being reliably received and processed by their destination.

5.

CMP provides inbuilt integrity protection and authentication. The information
communicated unencrypted in CMP messages does not contain sensitive information
endangering the security of the PKI when intercepted. However, it might be possible for an
eavesdropper to utilize the available information to gather confidential personal, technical,
or business-critical information. The protection of the confidentiality of CMP messages
together with an initial authentication of the RA/CA before the first CMP message is
transmitted ensures the privacy of the EE requesting certificates. Therefore, users of the
HTTP transfer for CMP messages should consider using HTTP over TLS according to
[RFC9110]
Protocol Security according to

 or using virtual private networks created, for example, by utilizing Internet

[RFC7296]
.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9811

HTTP Transfer for CMP

July 2025

6.  IANA Considerations

IANA has made the following updates:

•

the reference for "application/pkixcmp" in the "Media Types" registry
assignments/media-types>

 refers to this document, instead of

[RFC2510]

.

<https://www.iana.org/

•

the reference for "application/pkixcmp" in the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry
www.iana.org/assignments/core-parameters>
 refers to this document, instead of

<https://
[RFC4210]

.

•

the reference for "cmp" in the "Well-Known URIs" registry
assignments/well-known-uris/>

 refers to this document instead of

<https://www.iana.org/

[RFC4210]

.

•

the reference for "p" in the "CMP Well-Known URI Path Segments" registry
www.iana.org/assignments/cmp>

 refers to this document instead of

[RFC9480]

<https://
.

No further action by IANA is necessary for this document or any anticipated updates.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

[ITU.X690.2021]

ITU-T "Information Technology - ASN.1 encoding rules: Specification of Basic

,

Encoding Rules (BER), Canonical Encoding Rules (CER) and Distinguished
Encoding Rules (DER)" ITU-T Recommendation X.690
rec/T-REC-X.690-202102-I/en>

, 2021,

,

.

<https://www.itu.int/

[RFC1945]

[RFC2119]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8615]

[RFC9110]

[RFC9112]

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
,
HTTP/1.0" RFC 1945 DOI 10.17487/RFC1945
, May 1996,
editor.org/info/rfc1945>

, and

.

,

,

H. Frystyk "Hypertext Transfer Protocol --

<https://www.rfc-

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Nottingham, M. "Well-Known Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs)" RFC 8615
DOI 10.17487/RFC8615
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8615>

, May 2019,

,

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
9112 DOI 10.17487/RFC9112
,
rfc9112>

.

, June 2022,

, and

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP/1.1" STD 99 RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9811

HTTP Transfer for CMP

July 2025

[RFC9810]

,

Brockhaus, H. von Oheimb, D. Ounsworth, M.
Public Key Infrastructure -- Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)" RFC 9810
DOI 10.17487/RFC9810

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9810>

J. Gray "Internet X.509

, July 2025,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

7.2.  Informative References

[BCP56]

Best Current Practice 56,
At the time of writing, this BCP comprises the following:

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/bcp56>
.

Nottingham, M. "Building Protocols with HTTP" BCP 56 RFC 9205 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9205>
10.17487/RFC9205

, June 2022,

,

,

,

,

.

[RFC2510]

[RFC4210]

[RFC5246]

[RFC6712]

[RFC7296]

[RFC8446]

[RFC9293]

[RFC9480]

[RFC9483]

[RFC9530]

S. Farrell "Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate

 and

Adams, C.
Management Protocols" RFC 2510 DOI 10.17487/RFC2510
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2510>

,
.

,
,

, March 1999,

<https://

,

Adams, C. Farrell, S. Kause, T.
Infrastructure Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)" RFC 4210 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4210

T. Mononen "Internet X.509 Public Key
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4210>

, September 2005,

, and

,

,

,

.

Dierks, T.
1.2" RFC 5246 DOI 10.17487/RFC5246
,
info/rfc5246>

E. Rescorla "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
 and
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
,
.

, August 2008,

,

 and

M. Peylo "Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure -- HTTP
Kause, T.
Transfer for the Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)" RFC 6712 DOI
10.17487/RFC6712

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6712>

, September 2012,

,

,

.

,

Kaufman, C. Hoffman, P. Nir, Y. Eronen, P.
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" STD 79 RFC 7296 DOI 10.17487/RFC7296
October 2014,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7296>
.

T. Kivinen "Internet Key

, and
,

,

,

,

,

,

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

Eddy, W., Ed. "Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)" STD 7 RFC 9293 DOI
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9293>
10.17487/RFC9293
.

, August 2022,

,

,

,

Brockhaus, H. von Oheimb, D.
,
(CMP) Updates" RFC 9480 DOI 10.17487/RFC9480
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9480>

, and

.

,

,

J. Gray "Certificate Management Protocol

, November 2023,

<https://

Brockhaus, H. von Oheimb, D.
,
Management Protocol (CMP) Profile" RFC 9483 DOI 10.17487/RFC9483
November 2023,

S. Fries "Lightweight Certificate
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9483>

, and

,

,

.

,

 and

Polli, R.
February 2024,

L. Pardue "Digest Fields" RFC 9530 DOI 10.17487/RFC9530

,

,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9530>

.

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9811

HTTP Transfer for CMP

July 2025

Acknowledgements

The authors wish to thank
their work.

Tomi Kause

 and

Martin Peylo

, the original authors of

[RFC6712]

, for

We also thank all reviewers for their valuable feedback.

Authors' Addresses

Hendrik Brockhaus
Siemens
Werner-von-Siemens-Strasse 1
80333 Munich
Germany
Email:
URI:

https://www.siemens.com

hendrik.brockhaus@siemens.com

David von Oheimb
Siemens
Werner-von-Siemens-Strasse 1
80333 Munich
Germany
Email:
URI:

https://www.siemens.com

david.von.oheimb@siemens.com

Mike Ounsworth
Entrust
1187 Park Place
Minneapolis MN 55379
,
United States of America
Email:
URI:

https://www.entrust.com

mike.ounsworth@entrust.com

John Gray
Entrust
1187 Park Place
Minneapolis MN 55379
,
United States of America
Email:
URI:

john.gray@entrust.com
https://www.entrust.com

Brockhaus, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

