Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9906
Standards Track
November 2025
2070-1721
W. Hardaker
USC/ISI

W. Kumari
Google

RFC 9906
Deprecate Usage of ECC-GOST within DNSSEC

Abstract

This document retires the use of GOST R 34.10-2001 (mnemonic "ECC-GOST") and GOST R
34.11-94 within DNSSEC.

RFC 5933 (Historic) defined the use of GOST R 34.10-2001 and GOST R 34.11-94 algorithms with
DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC). This document updates RFC 5933 by deprecating the use of
ECC-GOST.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9906
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Hardaker & Kumari

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9906

MUST NOT DNSSEC with ECC-GOST

November 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Notation

2.  Deprecating ECC-GOST Algorithms in DNSSEC

3.  Security Considerations

4.  Operational Considerations

5.  IANA Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

2

3

3

3

3

4

4

4

5

5

The GOST R 34.10-2001 and GOST R 34.11-94 algorithms are documented in
use with DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) is further described in
algorithms were deprecated by the Orders of the Federal Agency for Technical Regulation and
Metrology of Russia (Rosstandart) in August 2012 and were superseded by GOST 34.10-2012 and
GOST 34.11-2012, respectively. The use of these two newer algorithms in DNSSEC is documented
in

, and their associated requirement levels are not changed by this document.

. These two

[RFC5933]

[RFC9558]

[RFC9364]

 and their

Thus, the use of GOST R 34.10-2001 (mnemonic "ECC-GOST") and GOST R 34.11-94 is no longer
recommended for use in DNSSEC

[RFC9364]
.

1.1.  Requirements Notation

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Hardaker & Kumari

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9906

MUST NOT DNSSEC with ECC-GOST

November 2025

2.  Deprecating ECC-GOST Algorithms in DNSSEC

The GOST R 34.11-94 algorithm
(DS) records. Validating resolvers
DS records of accepted cryptographic algorithms are available, the DNS records below the
delegation point

 treat GOST R 34.11-94 DS records as insecure. If no other

 be used when creating Delegation Signer

 be treated as insecure.

[RFC5933] MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

[RFC5933]

The GOST R 34.10-2001 algorithm
 be used when
creating DNS Public Key (DNSKEY) and Resource Record Signature (RRSIG) records. Validating
resolvers
 treat RRSIG records created from DNSKEY records using these algorithms as
unsupported algorithms. If no other RRSIG records of accepted cryptographic algorithms are
 consider the associated resource records as insecure.
available, the validating resolver

 (mnemonic "ECC-GOST")

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

3.  Security Considerations

This document potentially increases the security of the DNSSEC ecosystem by deprecating
algorithms that are no longer recommended for use.

4.  Operational Considerations

This document removes support for ECC-GOST. Zone operators currently making use of ECC-
GOST-based algorithms should switch to algorithms that remain supported. DNS registries
should prohibit their clients from uploading and publishing ECC-GOST-based DS records to
ensure that they are using algorithms that are supported by DNSSEC validators and thus can be
DNSSEC validated.

5.  IANA Considerations

IANA has updated the GOST R 34.10-2001 (12) entry in the "DNS Security Algorithm Numbers"
registry

[DNSKEY-IANA] [RFC9904]

 as follows:

GOST R 34.10-2001 (DEPRECATED)
ECC-GOST

Y

12

Number:
Description:
Mnemonic:
Zone Signing:
Trans. Sec.:
Use for DNSSEC Signing:
Use for DNSSEC Validation:
Implement for DNSSEC Signing:
Implement for DNSSEC Validation:
[RFC5933]
Reference:

*

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

, Change the status of GOST Signature Algorithms in DNSSEC in the IETF

stream to Historic, and RFC 9906

Hardaker & Kumari

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9906

MUST NOT DNSSEC with ECC-GOST

November 2025

Note: The "Use for DNSSEC Signing" and "Implement for DNSSEC Delegation" columns were
already set to

.
MUST NOT

IANA has updated the GOST R 34.11-94 (3) entry in the "Digest Algorithms" registry
follows:

[DS-IANA]

 as

GOST R 34.11-94 (DEPRECATED)

3

Value:
Description:
Use for DNSSEC Delegation:
Use for DNSSEC Validation:
Implement for DNSSEC Delegation:
Implement for DNSSEC Validation:
[RFC5933]
Reference:

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

MUST NOT

, Change the status of GOST Signature Algorithms in DNSSEC in the IETF

stream to Historic, and RFC 9906

Note: The "Use for DNSSEC Signing" and "Implement for DNSSEC Delegation" columns were
already set to

.
MUST NOT

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[DNSKEY-IANA]

,

IANA "DNS Security Algorithm Numbers" <https://www.iana.org/
.

assignments/dns-sec-alg-numbers>

,

[DS-IANA]

[RFC2119]

[RFC5933]

[RFC8174]

[RFC9364]

[RFC9904]

IANA "Digest Algorithms" <http://www.iana.org/assignments/ds-rr-types>

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Dolmatov, V., Ed. Chuprina, A.
Algorithms in DNSKEY and RRSIG Resource Records for DNSSEC" RFC 5933 DOI
10.17487/RFC5933

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5933>

I. Ustinov "Use of GOST Signature

, July 2010,

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Hoffman, P. "DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC)" BCP 237 RFC 9364 DOI
10.17487/RFC9364

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9364>

, February 2023,

,

,

,

,

.

 and

Hardaker, W.
Recommendation Update Process" RFC 9904 DOI 10.17487/RFC9904
,
2025,

W. Kumari "DNSSEC Cryptographic Algorithm

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9904>

,

.

,

, November

6.2.  Informative References

Hardaker & Kumari

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9906

MUST NOT DNSSEC with ECC-GOST

November 2025

[RFC9558]

 and

Makarenko, B.
DNSKEY and RRSIG Resource Records for DNSSEC" RFC 9558 DOI 10.17487/
RFC9558

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9558>

V. Dolmatov, Ed. "Use of GOST 2012 Signature Algorithms in

, April 2024,

,

,

.

Acknowledgments

The authors appreciate the comments and suggestions from the following IETF participants in
Mark Andrews Steve Crocker Brian Dickson Peter Dickson
,
,
,
helping produce this document:
Thomas Graf Paul Hoffman Russ Housely Shumon Huque S. Moonesamy Peter Thomassen
,
,
Stefan Ubbink Tim Wicinski Paul Wouters
, and the many members of the DNSOP Working
Group that discussed this specification.

,
,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Wes Hardaker
USC/ISI
Email:

ietf@hardakers.net

Warren Kumari
Google
Email:

warren@kumari.net

Hardaker & Kumari

Standards Track

Page 5

