Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9890
6020
Standards Track
October 2025
2070-1721
A. Bierman
YumaWorks

M. Boucadair, Ed.
Orange

Q. Wu
Huawei

RFC 9890
An Update to YANG Module Names Registration

Abstract

This document amends the IANA guidance on the uniqueness of YANG module and submodule
names.

The document updates RFC 6020 to clarify how modules and their revisions are handled by
IANA.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9890
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Bierman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9890

YANG Module Names

October 2025

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Requirements Notation

3.  IANA Considerations

3.1.  Update YANG Parameters Registry

3.2.  Revisions of Published Modules

4.  Operational Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

2

2

3

3

3

3

4

4

4

4

4

5

[RFC6020]
Names"

[IANA-MOD-NAMES]
.

 defines a registry for YANG module and submodule names, called "YANG Module

Specifically, IANA considerations to register YANG module and submodule names are specified in
Section 14 of [RFC6020]
. These considerations require that all module and submodule names in
the registry must be unique. However, the practice followed by IANA is not consistent with that
guidance.

This document amends the guidance on the uniqueness of names (
comply with the IANA practices for registering modules and their revisions.

Section 14 of [RFC6020]

) to

2.  Requirements Notation

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Bierman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9890

YANG Module Names

October 2025

3.  IANA Considerations

3.1.  Update YANG Parameters Registry

[IANA-MOD-NAMES]

IANA has updated the "YANG Module Names" registry under the "YANG Parameters" registry
group
needed because the procedure in this document is authoritative for assigning names in that
registry.

 to list this document as an additional reference. This update is

3.2.  Revisions of Published Modules

This document amends the guidance on the uniqueness of names, initially defined in
of [RFC6020]

, as follows:

Section 14

OLD:

All module and submodule names in the registry

MUST

 be unique.

All XML namespaces in the registry

MUST

 be unique.

NEW:

Modules and their revisions are maintained in the registry.

All initial version module and submodule names in the registry

MUST

 be unique.

All XML namespaces of initial version modules in the registry

MUST

 be unique.

All module and submodule revisions
version of the module and submodule.

MUST

 have the same name as the one in the initial

All module revisions
module.

MUST

 have the same XML namespace as the initial version of the

4.  Operational Considerations

This document aligns an IANA policy with the practice for handling YANG module names
(Section 3.2). As such, there are no new operations or manageability requirements introduced by
this document.

Bierman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9890

YANG Module Names

October 2025

5.  Security Considerations

This document defines a new IANA action (Section 3.1) and an update (Section 3.2) to an IANA
registration procedure defined in
risks that need to be discussed.

. It does not introduce any new or increased security

[RFC6020]

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC6020]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Bjorklund, M., Ed. "YANG - A Data Modeling Language for the Network
Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)" RFC 6020 DOI 10.17487/RFC6020
,
2010,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6020>

,

.

, October

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

6.2.  Informative References

[IANA-MOD-NAMES]

IANA "YANG Module Names" <https://www.iana.org/assignments/yang-

,

,
parameters/>
.

[YANG-GUIDE]

,

Bierman, A. Boucadair, M., Ed.
Reviewers of Documents Containing YANG Data Models" Work in Progress
Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-netmod-rfc8407bis-28
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-netmod-rfc8407bis-28>

Q. Wu "Guidelines for Authors and

, 5 June 2025,

<https://

, and

,

,

.

,

Acknowledgments

The content of this document was part of

[YANG-GUIDE]
.

Mahesh Jethanandani
Kent Watsen

 for the discussion and comments.

 suggested to offload this part from

[YANG-GUIDE]

. Thanks to Mahesh and

Thanks to

Mallory Knodel

 for the GENART review and

Barry Leiba

 for the ARTART review.

Thanks

Mike Bishop

 for the IESG review.

Bierman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9890

YANG Module Names

October 2025

Authors' Addresses

Andy Bierman
YumaWorks
United States of America
Email:

andy@yumaworks.com

editor
)

Mohamed Boucadair (
Orange
France
Email:

mohamed.boucadair@orange.com

Qin Wu
Huawei
China
Email:

bill.wu@huawei.com

Bierman, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

