Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9704
Standards Track
January 2025
2070-1721
T. Reddy.K
Nokia

K. Smith
Vodafone

D. Wing
Citrix

B. Schwartz
Meta

RFC 9704
Establishing Local DNS Authority in Validated Split-
Horizon Environments

Abstract

When split-horizon DNS is deployed by a network, certain domain names can be resolved
authoritatively by a network-provided DNS resolver. DNS clients that are not configured to use
this resolver by default can use it for these specific domains only. This specification defines a
mechanism for domain owners to inform DNS clients about local resolvers that are authorized to
answer authoritatively for certain subdomains.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9704
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Terminology

3.  Scope

4.  Requirements

5.  Establishing Local DNS Authority

5.1.  Example

5.2.  Conveying Authorization Claims

5.2.1.  Using DHCP

5.2.2.  Using Provisioning Domains

6.  Validating Authority over Local Domain Hints

6.1.  Using a Preconfigured External Resolver

6.2.  Using DNSSEC

7.  Delegating DNSSEC Across Split DNS Boundaries

8.  Example Split-Horizon DNS Configuration

8.1.  Verification Using an External Resolver

8.2.  Verification Using DNSSEC

9.  Operational Efficiency in Split-Horizon Deployments

10. Validation with IKEv2

11. Authorization Claim Update

12. Security Considerations

13. IANA Considerations

13.1.  New DHCP Authentication Algorithm for Split DNS

13.2.  New PvD Additional Information Type for Split DNS

13.3.  New PvD Split DNS Claims Registry

13.3.1.  Guidelines for the Designated Experts

13.4.  DNS Underscore Name

3

4

4

5

5

6

7

7

7

8

8

8

9

10

12

13

14

15

15

15

16

16

16

16

17

17

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

14. References

14.1.  Normative References

14.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

18

18

19

21

21

To resolve a DNS query, there are three main behaviors that an implementation can apply: (1)
answer from a local database, (2) query the relevant authorities and their parents, or (3) ask a
server to query those authorities and return the final answer. Implementations that use these
behaviors are called "authoritative nameservers", "full/recursive resolvers", and "forwarders"
(or "stub resolvers"), respectively. However, an implementation can also implement a mixture of
these behaviors, depending on local policy, for each query. Such an implementation is termed a
"hybrid resolver".

Most DNS resolvers are hybrids of some kind. For example, stub resolvers support a local "hosts
file" that preempts query forwarding, and most DNS forwarders and full resolvers can also serve
using a
responses from a local zone file. Other standardized hybrid resolution behaviors include
local root [RFC8806] Multicast DNS (mDNS) [RFC6762]
[RFC7686]
.

NXDOMAIN synthesis for .onion

, and

,

Section 5.1 of [RFC8106]

Networks usually offer clients a DNS resolver using means such as DHCP offers or IPv6 Router
Advertisements (RAs). Although this resolver is formally specified as a recursive resolver (e.g.,
see
), some networks provide a hybrid resolver instead. If this resolver
acts as an authoritative server for some names and -- depending on the source of the query --
provides different answers for those domains, the network is said to be using "split-horizon
DNS", because those names resolve in this way only from inside the network.

DNS clients that use pure stub resolution, sending all queries to the network-provided resolver,
will always receive the split-horizon results. Conversely, clients that send all queries to a
different resolver or implement pure full resolution locally will never receive them. Clients that
strictly implement either of these resolution behaviors are out of scope for this specification.
Instead, this specification enables hybrid clients to access split-horizon results from a network-
provided hybrid resolver, while using a different resolution method for some or all other names.

There are several existing mechanisms for a network to provide clients with "local domain
hints", listing domain names that are given special treatment in this network (e.g.,
DNS Server (RDNSS) selection" [RFC6731] "access network domain name" [RFC5986]
, and "Client
,
Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN)"
 in DHCP; "dnsZones" in Provisioning
Domains (PvDs)
 in Internet Key Exchange
Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)). However, none of the local domain hint mechanisms enable clients

"INTERNAL_DNS_DOMAIN" [RFC8598]

[RFC4702] [RFC4704]

"Recursive

[RFC8801]

; and

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

to determine whether this special treatment is authorized by the domain owner. Instead, these
specifications require clients to make their own determinations about whether to trust and rely
on these hints.

This document describes a mechanism between domain names, networks, and clients that allows
the network to establish its authority over a domain to a client (Section 5). Clients can use this
protocol to confirm that a local domain hint was authorized by the domain owner (Section 6),
which might influence its processing of that hint. This process requires cooperation between the
local DNS zone and the public zone.

In this specification, network operators securely identify the local DNS servers, and clients check
each local domain hint against a globally valid parent zone.

2.  Terminology

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

This document makes use of the terms defined in
additional terms are used throughout this document:

[RFC9499]

, e.g., "global DNS". The following

Encrypted DNS:

A DNS protocol that provides an encrypted channel between a DNS client and
, DNS

, DNS (queries) over HTTPS (DoH)

[RFC7858]

[RFC8484]

server (e.g., DNS over TLS (DoT)
over QUIC (DoQ)

[RFC9250]

).

Encrypted DNS Resolver:

Refers to a DNS resolver that supports any encrypted DNS scheme.

Split-Horizon DNS:

The DNS service provided by a resolver that also acts as an authoritative
server for some names, providing resolution results that are meaningfully different from
those in the global DNS. (See the definition of "split DNS" in

Section 6 of [RFC9499]

.)

Validated Split Horizon:

A split-horizon configuration that is authorized by the parents of the

affected names and confirmed by the client. Such authorization generally extends to the
entire subtree of names below the authorization point.

In this document, the terms "owner" and "operator" are used interchangeably and refer to the
individual or entity responsible for the management and maintenance of domains.

3.  Scope

The protocol described in this document is designed to support the ability of a domain owner to
create or authorize a split-horizon view of their domain. The protocol does not support split-
horizon views created by any other entity. Thus, DNS filtering is not enabled by this protocol.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

The protocol is applicable to any type of network offering split-horizon DNS configuration. The
endpoint does not need any prior configuration to confirm that a local domain hint was indeed
authorized by the domain.

All of the Special-Use Domain Names registered with IANA
"home.arpa.", "resolver.arpa.", "ipv4only.arpa.", and "local.", are never unique to a specific DNS
server's authority. All Special-Use Domain Names are outside the scope of this document and
MUST NOT

 be validated using the mechanism described in this document.

, most notably

[RFC6761]

The use of this specification is limited to DNS servers that support authenticated encryption and
split-horizon DNS names that are rooted in the global DNS.

4.  Requirements

This solution seeks to fulfill the following requirements:

No loss of security:

No unauthorized party can impersonate a zone unless they could already do

so without the use of this specification.

Least privilege:

Local resolvers do not hold any secrets that could weaken the security of the

public zone if compromised.

Local zone confidentiality:
outside of the network.

The specification does not leak local network subdomains to anyone

Flexibility:

The specification can represent and authorize a split DNS zone structure.

DNSSEC compatibility:

The specification supports DNSSEC-based object security for local zone

contents per

[RFC9364]

.

5.  Establishing Local DNS Authority

MUST

A participating network
Advertisement options for the Discovery of Network-designated Resolvers (DNR)
Discovery of Designated Resolvers (DDR)
10).

 offer one or more encrypted resolvers via DHCP and Router
[RFC9463]
,

, or an equivalent mechanism (see Section

[RFC9462]

To establish local authority, the network
client. An authorization claim is an abstract structure comprising:

MUST

 convey one or more "authorization claims" to the

•

An Authentication Domain Name (ADN) of a local encrypted resolver.

•

The DNS name of the authorizing parent zone.

•

A set of subdomains of this parent zone that are claimed by the named local resolver
(potentially including the entire parent zone). To claim the entire parent zone, the claimed
subdomain will be represented as an asterisk symbol ("*").

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

•

A ZONEMD Hash Algorithm (
implementations
Section 2.2.3 of [RFC8976]

MUST

.

Section 5.3 of [RFC8976]

). For interoperability purposes,

 support the "mandatory to implement" hash algorithms defined in

•

A high-entropy salt, up to 255 octets.

If the local encrypted resolver is identified by name (e.g., using DNR), that identifying name
be the name used in any corresponding authorization claim. Otherwise (e.g., DDR using IP
addresses), the resolver
matches the authorization claim using the validation techniques for matching as described in
[RFC9525]
.

 present a validatable certificate containing a subjectAltName that

MUST

MUST

The network then provides each authorization claim to the parent zone operator. If the contents
are approved, the parent zone operator computes a "Verification Token" according to the
following procedure:

1.

Convert all subdomains into canonical form and sort them in canonical order (
[RFC4034]

).

Section 6 of

2.

Replace the suffix corresponding to the parent zone with a zero octet.

3.

Let $X be the concatenation of the resulting pseudo-FQDNs.

4.

Let len($SALT) be the number of octets of salt, as a single octet.

5.

Let $TOKEN = hash(len($SALT) || $SALT || $X), where "||" denotes concatenation and hash
is the ZONEMD Hash Algorithm.

The zone operator then publishes a "Verification Record" with the following structure, following
the best practices outlined in Sections 5.2 and 5.3 of

[DOMAIN-VERIFICATION-TECHNIQUES]
:

•

Type = TXT

•

Owner Name = Concatenation of the ADN, "_splitdns-challenge", and the parent zone name

•

Contents = "key/value" pairs, e.g., "token=base64url($TOKEN)" (without padding)

By publishing this record, the parent zone authorizes the local encrypted resolver to serve these
subdomains authoritatively.

5.1.  Example

Consider the following authorization claim:

•

ADN = "resolver17.parent.example"

•

Parent = "parent.example"

•

Subdomains = "payroll.parent.example", "secret.project.parent.example"

•

Hash Algorithm = SHA-384

[RFC6234]

•

Salt = "example salt octets (should be random)"

To approve this claim, the zone operator would publish the following record:

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

  resolver17.parent.example._splitdns-challenge.parent.example. \
  IN TXT "token=z1qyK7QWwQPkT-ZmVW-tAQbsNyYenTNBPp5ogYB8S1wesVCR\
  -KJDv2eFwfJcWQM"

5.2.  Conveying Authorization Claims

The authorization claim is an abstract structure that must be encoded in some concrete syntax in
order to convey it from the network to the client. This section defines some encodings of the
authorization claims.

5.2.1.  Using DHCP

, the mechanism for splitting long options as described in

), using the Protocol value 4, "Split-horizon DNS". In DHCPv4

In DHCP, each authorization claim is encoded as a DHCP Authentication option (
Section 21.11 of [RFC8415]
Section 8 of [RFC3396] MUST
[RFC2131]
be used if the Authentication option exceeds the maximum DHCPv4 option size of 255 octets. The
Algorithm field provides the ZONEMD Hash Algorithm, represented by its registered Value. The
Replay Detection Method value
MUST
following information, concatenated:

 be 0x00. The Authentication Information

 contain the

[RFC3118]

MUST

 and

1.

The ADN in canonical form.

2.

The parent name in canonical form.

3.

A one-octet "salt length" field.

4.

The salt value.

5.

The $X value as defined in Section 5.

5.2.2.  Using Provisioning Domains

PvDs [RFC8801]

When using
Information key "splitDnsClaims", whose value is a JSON array. Each entry in the array
JSON object with the following structure:

, the authorization claims are represented by the PvD Additional
MUST

 be a

"resolver":

The ADN as a dot-separated name.

"parent":

The parent zone name as a dot-separated name.

"subdomains":

An array containing the claimed subdomains, as dot-separated names with the

parent suffix already removed, in canonical order. To claim the entire parent zone, the
claimed subdomain will be represented as an asterisk symbol ("*").

"algorithm":

The hash algorithm, represented by its "Mnemonic" string from the "ZONEMD

Hash Algorithms" registry (

Section 5.3 of [RFC8976]

).

"salt":

The salt, encoded in base64url

[RFC4648]

.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

Future specifications aiming to define new keys will need to add them to the IANA registry
defined in Section 13.3. DNS client implementations will ignore any keys they don't recognize but
may also report unknown keys.

6.  Validating Authority over Local Domain Hints

To validate an authorization claim provided by the network, DNS clients
Verification Record for that name. If the resolution produces an RRset containing the expected
token for this claim, the client
subdomains. Clients

 ignore any unrecognized keys in the Verification Record.

 regard the named resolver as authoritative for the claimed

 resolve the

SHALL

MUST

MUST

Each validation of authority applies only to a specific ADN. If a network offers multiple
encrypted resolvers, each claimed subdomain may be authorized for a distinct subset of the
network-provided resolvers.

A zone is termed a "Validated Split-Horizon zone" after successful validation using a
"tamperproof" DNS resolution method, i.e., a method that is not subject to interference by the
local network operator. Two possible tamperproof resolution methods are presented below.

6.1.  Using a Preconfigured External Resolver

This method applies only if the client is already configured with a default resolution strategy that
sends queries to a resolver outside of the network over an encrypted transport. That resolution
strategy is considered tamperproof because any actor who could modify the response could
already modify all of the user's other DNS responses. If the client cannot obtain a response from
the external resolver within a reasonable timeframe, it
 consider the verification process to
have failed.

MUST

To ensure that this assumption holds, clients
otherwise apply when using this resolver. For example, if the client would check the
Authenticated Data (AD) bit or validate RRSIGs locally when using this resolver, it must also do so
when resolving TXT records for this purpose. The client
verification query even if it has disabled DNSSEC validation for other DNS queries.

 relax the acceptance rules they would

 perform DNSSEC validation for the

MUST NOT

MAY

6.2.  Using DNSSEC

The client resolves the Verification Record using any resolution method of its choice (e.g.,
querying one of the network-provided resolvers, performing iterative resolution locally) and
performs full DNSSEC validation locally
Section 4.3 of [RFC4035]
validation state (

. The result is processed based on its DNSSEC

[RFC6698]
):

Secure:

The response is used for validation.

Bogus or Indeterminate:

The response is rejected, and validation is considered to have failed.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

Insecure: The client

SHOULD

 retry the validation process using a different method, such as the

method described in Section 6.1, to ensure compatibility with unsigned names. If the client
chooses not to retry (e.g., no configured policy to validate the authorization claim using an
external resolver), it

 consider validation to have failed.

MUST

7.  Delegating DNSSEC Across Split DNS Boundaries

When the local zone can be signed with globally trusted keys for the parent zone, support for
DNSSEC can be accomplished by simply placing a zone cut at the parent zone and including a
suitable DS record for the local resolver's DNSKEY. Zones in this configuration appear the same to
validating stubs whether or not they implement this specification.

To enable DNSSEC validation of local DNS names without requiring the local resolver to hold
DNSSEC private keys that are valid for the parent zone, parent zones
Verification Record whose value is the RDATA of a single DS record, encoded in base64url. This
DS record authorizes a DNSKEY whose owner name is "resolver.arpa."

 add a "ds=..." key to the

MAY

To validate DNSSEC, the client first fetches and validates the Verification Record. If it is valid and
contains a "ds" key, the client
encrypted resolver. At least one resulting DNSKEY Resource Record (RR)
RDATA from the "ds" key in the Verification Record. All local resolution results for subdomains in
this claim
approved DNSKEYs.

 offer RRSIGs that chain to a DNSKEY whose RDATA is identical to one of these

 send a DNSKEY query for "resolver.arpa." to the local

 match the DS

MUST

MUST

MAY

The "ds" key
multiple DNSKEYs for this local encrypted resolver.

MAY

 appear multiple times in a single Verification Record, in order to authorize

Note that when the local resolver does not have a globally trusted DNSKEY, any claimed
subdomains
would be rejected by validating stubs that do not implement this specification.

 be marked as unsigned in the public DNS. Otherwise, local resolution results

MUST

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

NOTE: '\' line wrapping per RFC 8792

;; Parent zone.
$ORIGIN parent.example.

; Parent zone's public Key Signing Key (KSK)
; and Zone Signing Key (ZSK).
@ IN DNSKEY 257 3 5 ABCD...=
@ IN DNSKEY 256 3 5 DCBA...=

; Verification Record containing DS RDATA for the local
; resolver's KSK.  This is an ordinary public TXT record,
; secured by RRSIGs from the public ZSK.
resolver.example._splitdns-challenge IN TXT "token=abc...,ds=QWE..."

; NSEC record indicating that unsigned delegations are permitted at
; this subdomain.  This is required for compatibility with
; non-split-aware validating stub resolvers.  If the claimed label is
; confidential, the parent zone can conceal it using NSEC3 (with or
; without "opt-out").
@ IN NSEC subdomain.parent.example. NS

;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;

;; Local zone, claiming "subdomain.parent.example".

; The local resolver's KSK, validated by the Verification Record.
; It may not have a corresponding RRSIG.
resolver.arpa. IN DNSKEY 257 3 5 ASDF...=

; Each claimed subdomain duplicates the local resolver's KSK at its
; zone apex and uses it to sign the ZSK.
subdomain.parent.example.        IN DNSKEY 257 3 5 ASDF...=
subdomain.parent.example.        IN DNSKEY 256 3 5 FDSA...=
subdomain.parent.example         IN RRSIG DNSKEY 5 3 ...  \
        (KSK key tag) subdomain.parent.example. ...
subdomain.parent.example.        IN AAAA 2001:db8::17
subdomain.parent.example         IN RRSIG AAAA 5 3 ...    \
        (ZSK key tag) subdomain.parent.example. ...
deeper.subdomain.parent.example. IN AAAA 2001:db8::18
deeper.subdomain.parent.example  IN RRSIG AAAA 5 3 ...    \
        (ZSK key tag) subdomain.parent.example. ...

Figure 1: Example Use of "ds=..."

8.  Example Split-Horizon DNS Configuration

Consider an organization that operates "example.com" and runs a different version of its global
domain on its internal network.

First, the host and network both need to support one of the discovery mechanisms described in
Section 5. Figure 2 shows discovery using information from the DNR and the PvD.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

Validation is then performed using either
8.2)
.

an external resolver (Section 8.1)

 or

DNSSEC (Section

Steps 1-2:

The client determines the network's DNS server (dns.example.net) and PvD ID

(pvd.example.com) using DNR and a PvD, along with one of the following: DNR Router
Solicitation, DHCPv4, or DHCPv6.

Steps 3-5:

The client connects to dns.example.net using an encrypted transport as indicated in

DNR [RFC9463]
sends it a query for the address of pvd.example.com.

, authenticating the server to its name using TLS (

Section 8 of [RFC8310]

), and

Steps 6-7:

The client connects to the PvD server, validates its certificate, and retrieves the PvD

Additional Information indicated by the associated PvD. The JSON object contains:

{
  "identifier": "pvd.example.com",
  "expires": "2025-05-23T06:00:00Z",
  "prefixes": ["2001:db8:1::/48", "2001:db8:4::/48"],
  "splitDnsClaims": [{
    "resolver": "dns.example.net",
    "parent": "example.com",
    "subdomains": ["*"],
    "algorithm": "SHA384",
    "salt": "abc...123"
  }]
}

The JSON keys "identifier", "expires", and "prefixes" are defined in

[RFC8801]
.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

+---------+         +--------------------+  +------------+ +--------+
| Client  |         | Network's          |  | Network    | | Router |
|         |         | Encrypted Resolver |  | PvD Server | |        |
+---------+         +--------------------+  +------------+ +--------+
   |                                     |         |            |
   | Router Solicitation or              |         |            |
   | DHCPv4/DHCPv6 (1)                   |         |            |
   |----------------------------------------------------------->|
   |                                     |         |            |
   |  Response with DNR ADN &            |         |            |
   |  PvD FQDN (2)                       |         |            |
   |<-----------------------------------------------------------|
   | ----------------------------\       |         |            |
   |-| now knows DNR ADN &       |       |         |            |
   | | PvD FQDN                  |       |         |            |
   | |---------------------------/       |         |            |
   |                                     |         |            |
   | TLS connection to dns.example.net (3)         |            |
   |------------------------------------>|         |            |
   | ---------------------------\        |         |            |
   |-| validate TLS certificate |        |         |            |
   | |--------------------------/        |         |            |
   |                                     |         |            |
   | resolve pvd.example.com (4)         |         |            |
   |------------------------------------>|         |            |
   |                                     |         |            |
   |            A or AAAA records (5)    |         |            |
   |<------------------------------------|         |            |
   |                                     |         |            |
   | https://pvd.example.com/.well-known/pvd (6)   |            |
   |---------------------------------------------->|            |
   |                                     |         |            |
   |  200 OK (JSON Additional Information) (7)     |            |
   |<----------------------------------------------|            |
   | ----------------------------------\ |         |            |
   |-| {..., "splitDnsClaims": [...] } | |         |            |
   | |---------------------------------/ |         |            |

Figure 2: An Example of Learning Local Claims of DNS Authority

8.1.  Verification Using an External Resolver

Figure 3 shows the steps performed to verify the local claims of DNS authority using an external
resolver.

Steps 1-2:

The client uses an encrypted DNS connection to an external resolver to issue TXT

queries for the Verification Records. The TXT lookup returns a token that matches the claim.

Step 3:

The client has validated that example.com has authorized dns.example.net to serve

example.com. When the client connects using an encrypted transport as indicated in
[RFC9463]
send queries to resolve any names that fall within the claimed zones.

, it will authenticate the server to its name using TLS (

Section 8 of [RFC8310]

DNR

) and

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

+---------+                  +--------------------+  +----------+
| Client  |                  | Network's          |  | External |
|         |                  | Encrypted Resolver |  | Resolver |
+---------+                  +--------------------+  +----------+
     |                                          |         |
     | TLS connection                           |         |
     |--------------------------------------------------->|
     | ---------------------------\             |         |
     |-| validate TLS certificate |             |         |
     | |--------------------------|             |         |
     |                                          |         |
     | TXT? dns.example.net.\                   |         |
     |   _splitdns-challenge.example.com (1)    |         |
     |--------------------------------------------------->|
     |                                          |         |
     |  TXT "token=ABC..." (2)                  |         |
     |<---------------------------------------------------|
     | --------------------------------\        |         |
     |-| dns.example.net is authorized |        |         |
     | ----------------------\---------|        |         |
     |-| finished validation |                  |         |
     | |---------------------|                  |         |
     |                                          |         |
     |  use dns.example.net when                |         |
     |  resolving example.com (3)               |         |
     |----------------------------------------->|         |
     |                                          |         |

Figure 3: Verifying Claims Using an External Resolver

8.2.  Verification Using DNSSEC

Figure 4 shows the steps performed to verify the local claims of DNS authority using DNSSEC.

Steps 1-2:

The DNSSEC-validating client queries the network's encrypted resolver to issue TXT

queries for the Verification Records. The TXT lookup will return a signed response containing
the expected token. The client then performs full DNSSEC validation locally.

Step 3:

If the DNSSEC validation is successful and the token matches, then this authorization

claim is validated. Once the client connects using an encrypted transport as indicated in
[RFC9463]
send queries to resolve any names that fall within the claimed zones.

, it will authenticate the server to its name using TLS (

Section 8 of [RFC8310]

) and

DNR

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

+---------+                                    +--------------------+
| Client  |                                    | Network's          |
|         |                                    | Encrypted Resolver |
+---------+                                    +--------------------+
  |                                                               |
  | DNSSEC OK (DO), TXT? dns.example.net.\                        |
  |   _splitdns-challenge.example.com (1)                         |
  |-------------------------------------------------------------->|
  |                                                               |
  | TXT token=DEF..., Signed Answer (RRSIG) (2)                   |
  |<--------------------------------------------------------------|
  | -------------------------------------\                        |
  |-| DNSKEY+TXT matches RRSIG, use TXT  |                        |
  | |------------------------------------|                        |
  | --------------------------------\                             |
  |-| dns.example.net is authorized |                             |
  | |-------------------------------|                             |
  | ----------------------\                                       |
  |-| finished validation |                                       |
  | |---------------------|                                       |
  |                                                               |
  | use encrypted network-designated resolver for example.com (3) |
  |-------------------------------------------------------------->|
  |                                                               |

Figure 4: An Example of Verifying Claims Using DNSSEC

9.  Operational Efficiency in Split-Horizon Deployments

In many split-horizon deployments, all non-public domain names are placed in a separate child
zone (e.g., internal.example.com). In this configuration, the message flow is similar to the flow
described in Section 8.1, except that queries for hosts not within the subdomain (e.g.,
www.example.com) are sent to the external resolver rather than the resolver for
internal.example.com.

As specified in Section 8.1, the internal DNS server will need a certificate signed by a Certification
Authority (CA) trusted by the client.

Although placing internal domains inside a child domain is not necessary to prevent leakage,
such placement reduces the frequency of changes to the Verification Record. This document
recommends that the internal domains be kept in a child zone of the local domain hints
advertised by the network. For example, if the PvD "dnsZones" entry is "internal.example.com"
and the network-provided DNS resolver is "ns1.internal.example.com", the network operator can
structure the internal domain names as "private1.internal.example.com",
"private2.internal.example.com", etc. The network-designated resolver will be used to resolve the
subdomains of the local domain hint "*.internal.example.com".

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

10.  Validation with IKEv2

When the endpoint is using a VPN tunnel and the tunnel is IPsec, the encrypted DNS resolver
hosted by the VPN service provider can be securely discovered by the endpoint using the
ENCDNS_IP* IKEv2 Configuration Payload Attribute Types defined in
can use the mechanism defined in Section 6 to validate that the discovered encrypted DNS
resolver is authorized to answer for the claimed subdomains.

[RFC9464]

. The VPN client

Other VPN tunnel types have similar configuration capabilities. Note that those capabilities are
not discussed in this document.

11.  Authorization Claim Update

A Verification Record is only valid until it expires. Expiry occurs when the Time To Live (TTL) or
DNSSEC signature validity period ends. Shortly before Verification Record expiry, clients
fetch the Verification Records again and repeat the verification procedure. This ensures the
availability of updated and valid Verification Records.

MUST

A new Verification Record must be added to the RRset before the corresponding authorization
claim is updated. After the claim is updated, the following procedures can be used:

1.

DHCP reconfiguration can be initiated by a DHCP server that has previously communicated
with a DHCP client and negotiated for the DHCP client to listen for Reconfigure messages, to
prompt the DHCP client to dynamically request the updated authorization claim. This
process avoids the need for the client to wait for its current lease to complete and request a
new one, enabling the lease renewal to be driven by the DHCP server.

2.

The sequence number in the RA PvD Option can be incremented, requiring clients to fetch
PvD Additional Information from the HTTPS server due to the updated sequence number in
the new RA (

Section 4.1 of [RFC8801]

).

3.

The old Verification Record needs to be maintained until the DHCP lease or PvD Additional
Information expires.

12.  Security Considerations

The ADNs of authorized local encrypted resolvers are revealed in the owner names of
Verification Records. This makes it easier for domain owners to understand which resolvers they
are currently authorizing to implement split DNS. However, this could create a confidentiality
issue if the local encrypted resolver's name contains sensitive information or is part of a secret
subdomain. To mitigate the impact of such leakage, local resolvers should be given names that do
not reveal any sensitive information.

The security properties of hashing algorithms are not fixed. Algorithm agility (see
) is
achieved by providing implementations with the flexibility to choose hashing algorithms from
the "ZONEMD Hash Algorithms" registry (

Section 5.3 of [RFC8976]

[RFC7696]

).

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

The entropy of a salt depends on a high-quality pseudorandom number generator. For further
discussion on random number generation, see
whenever the authorization claim is updated.

 be regenerated

[RFC4086]

. The salt

MUST

13.  IANA Considerations

13.1.  New DHCP Authentication Algorithm for Split DNS

IANA has added the following entry to the "Protocol Name Space Values" registry in the
"Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) Authentication Option Name Spaces" registry
group:

Value:

4

Description:

Split-horizon DNS

Reference:

RFC 9704

13.2.  New PvD Additional Information Type for Split DNS

IANA has added the following entry to the "Additional Information PvD Keys" registry in the
"Provisioning Domains (PvDs)" registry group:

JSON key:

splitDnsClaims

Description:

Verifiable locally served domains

Type:

Array of Objects

Example:

[{
  "resolver": "dns.example.net",
  "parent": "example.com",
  "subdomains": ["sub"],
  "algorithm": "SHA384",
  "salt": "abc...123"
}]

Reference:

RFC 9704

13.3.  New PvD Split DNS Claims Registry

IANA has created a new registry called "PvD Split DNS Claims" within the "Provisioning Domains
(PvDs)" registry group. This new registry reserves JSON keys for use in sub-dictionaries under the
splitDnsClaims JSON key. The initial contents of this registry, as discussed in Section 5.2.2, are
listed below and have been added to the registry:

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

JSON key

Description

Type

Example

Reference

resolver

The Authentication Domain
Name

String

"dns.example.net"

RFC 9704

parent

The parent zone name

String

"example.com"

RFC 9704

subdomains

An array containing the
claimed subdomains

Array of
Strings

["sub"]

RFC 9704

algorithm

The hash algorithm

String

"SHA384"

RFC 9704

salt

The salt (base64url)

String

"abc...123"

RFC 9704

Table 1: Split DNS Claims

The keys defined in this document are mandatory. Any new assignments of keys will be
considered as optional for the purpose of the mechanism described in this document.

New assignments in the "PvD Split DNS Claims" registry will be administered by IANA through
. Experts are requested to ensure that defined keys do not overlap in
Expert Review
names or semantics.

[RFC8126]

13.3.1.  Guidelines for the Designated Experts

It is suggested that multiple designated experts be appointed for registry change requests.

Criteria that should be applied by the designated experts include determining whether the
proposed registration duplicates existing entries and whether the registration description is clear
and fits the purpose of this registry.

Registration requests are evaluated within a three-week review period on the advice of one or
more designated experts. Within the review period, the designated experts will either approve or
deny the registration request, communicating this decision to IANA. Denials should include an
explanation and, if applicable, suggestions as to how to make the request successful.

13.4.  DNS Underscore Name

IANA has added the following entry to the "Underscored and Globally Scoped DNS Node Names"
registry in the "Domain Name System (DNS) Parameters" registry group:

RR Type:

TXT

_NODE NAME:

_splitdns-challenge

Reference:

RFC 9704

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

14.  References

14.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC2131]

[RFC3118]

[RFC3396]

[RFC4034]

[RFC4035]

[RFC4086]

[RFC4648]

[RFC6698]

[RFC6761]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Droms, R. "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol" RFC 2131 DOI 10.17487/
RFC2131

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2131>

,
, March 1997,

,

,

.

 and

Droms, R., Ed.
3118 DOI 10.17487/RFC3118
,
rfc3118>

.

W. Arbaugh, Ed. "Authentication for DHCP Messages" RFC

,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, June 2001,

 and

S. Cheshire "Encoding Long Options in the Dynamic Host

Lemon, T.
Configuration Protocol (DHCPv4)" RFC 3396 DOI 10.17487/RFC3396
,
2002,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3396>

,

.

,

, November

,

Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
,
the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4034 DOI 10.17487/RFC4034
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4034>

, and

,

,

.

S. Rose "Resource Records for

,

, March 2005,

,

Arends, R. Austein, R. Larson, M. Massey, D.
,
Modifications for the DNS Security Extensions" RFC 4035 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4035

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4035>

S. Rose "Protocol

, March 2005,

, and
,

,
,

,

.

,

Eastlake 3rd, D. Schiller, J.
Security" BCP 106 RFC 4086 DOI 10.17487/RFC4086
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4086>

, and
,

,

,

.

S. Crocker "Randomness Requirements for

,

, June 2005,

<https://

Josefsson, S. "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data Encodings" RFC 4648 DOI
10.17487/RFC4648

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>

, October 2006,

,

,

.

 and

J. Schlyter "The DNS-Based Authentication of Named Entities

Hoffman, P.
(DANE) Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol: TLSA" RFC 6698 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6698

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6698>

, August 2012,

,
.

,

,

Cheshire, S.
10.17487/RFC6761

 and

M. Krochmal "Special-Use Domain Names" RFC 6761 DOI

,

,

,

, February 2013,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6761>

.

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

[RFC8415]

[RFC8801]

[RFC8976]

[RFC9525]

Mrugalski, T. Siodelski, M. Volz, B. Yourtchenko, A. Richardson, M. Jiang, S.
,
Lemon, T.
, and
(DHCPv6)" RFC 8415 DOI 10.17487/RFC8415
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc8415>

T. Winters "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6

, November 2018,

<https://www.rfc-

,

,

,

,

,

.

,

,

Pfister, P. Vyncke, É. Pauly, T. Schinazi, D.
,
Provisioning Domain Names and Data" RFC 8801 DOI 10.17487/RFC8801
2020,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8801>

W. Shao "Discovering

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, July

,

Wessels, D. Barber, P. Weinberg, M. Kumari, W.
Digest for DNS Zones" RFC 8976 DOI 10.17487/RFC8976
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8976>
.

, and

,
,

,

W. Hardaker "Message

,

, February 2021,

<https://

Saint-Andre, P.
RFC9525

,
R. Salz "Service Identity in TLS" RFC 9525 DOI 10.17487/
 and
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9525>
, November 2023,

,

.

,

14.2.  Informative References

[DOMAIN-VERIFICATION-TECHNIQUES]

,

Sahib, S. Huque, S. Wouters, P.
, and
,

,

E. Nygren

,

"Domain Control Validation using DNS" Work in Progress Internet-Draft, draft-
,
ietf-dnsop-domain-verification-techniques-06
datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-dnsop-domain-verification-
techniques-06>

, 21 October 2024,

<https://

.

[RFC4702]

[RFC4704]

[RFC5986]

[RFC6234]

[RFC6731]

[RFC6762]

[RFC7686]

Stapp, M. Volz, B.
,
(DHCP) Client Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) Option" RFC 4702 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4702>
10.17487/RFC4702
.

Y. Rekhter "The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

, October 2006,

, and

,

,

,

,

Volz, B. "The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6) Client
Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) Option" RFC 4704 DOI 10.17487/RFC4704
October 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4704>

,
.

,

,

Thomson, M.
 and
Server (LIS)" RFC 5986 DOI 10.17487/RFC5986
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5986>

,

.

J. Winterbottom "Discovering the Local Location Information

, September 2010,

<https://

 and

Eastlake 3rd, D.
based HMAC and HKDF)" RFC 6234 DOI 10.17487/RFC6234
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6234>

,

,

,

.

T. Hansen "US Secure Hash Algorithms (SHA and SHA-

, May 2011,

<https://

,

Savolainen, T. Kato, J.
for Multi-Interfaced Nodes" RFC 6731 DOI 10.17487/RFC6731
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6731>

T. Lemon "Improved Recursive DNS Server Selection
,

, December 2012,

, and

,

.

,

Cheshire, S.
 and
February 2013,

M. Krochmal "Multicast DNS" RFC 6762 DOI 10.17487/RFC6762
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6762>
.

,

,

 and

Appelbaum, J.
7686 DOI 10.17487/RFC7686
,
rfc7686>

.

A. Muffett "The ".onion" Special-Use Domain Name" RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,
, October 2015,

,

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

[RFC7696]

[RFC7858]

[RFC8106]

[RFC8310]

[RFC8484]

[RFC8598]

[RFC8792]

[RFC8806]

[RFC9250]

[RFC9364]

[RFC9462]

[RFC9463]

[RFC9464]

,

Housley, R. "Guidelines for Cryptographic Algorithm Agility and Selecting
Mandatory-to-Implement Algorithms" BCP 201 RFC 7696 DOI 10.17487/
RFC7696

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7696>

, November 2015,

,

,

.

,

,

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.
"Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

P. Hoffman

, and

,

,

,

.

,

,

Jeong, J. Park, S. Beloeil, L.
, and
Options for DNS Configuration" RFC 8106 DOI 10.17487/RFC8106
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8106>

,
.

S. Madanapalli "IPv6 Router Advertisement

,

, March 2017,

Dickinson, S. Gillmor, D.
,
DNS over DTLS" RFC 8310 DOI 10.17487/RFC8310
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8310>

, and
,

.

T. Reddy "Usage Profiles for DNS over TLS and

,

, March 2018,

<https://

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC8484

 and

P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

 and

Pauly, T.
Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)" RFC 8598 DOI 10.17487/RFC8598
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8598>

P. Wouters "Split DNS Configuration for the Internet Key Exchange
<https://

, May 2019,

,

,

,

.

,

Watsen, K. Auerswald, E. Farrel, A.
Content of Internet-Drafts and RFCs" RFC 8792 DOI 10.17487/RFC8792
2020,

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8792>
.

Q. Wu "Handling Long Lines in

, and
,

,

, June

Kumari, W.
,
 and
8806 DOI 10.17487/RFC8806
,
, June 2020,
rfc8806>

.

P. Hoffman "Running a Root Server Local to a Resolver" RFC

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Huitema, C. Dickinson, S.
,
Connections" RFC 9250 DOI 10.17487/RFC9250
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9250>
.

, and

,

A. Mankin "DNS over Dedicated QUIC

, May 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

Hoffman, P. "DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC)" BCP 237 RFC 9364 DOI
10.17487/RFC9364

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9364>

, February 2023,

,

,

,

,

.

,

Pauly, T. Kinnear, E. Wood, C. A. McManus, P.
Designated Resolvers" RFC 9462 DOI 10.17487/RFC9462
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9462>

, and

,
,

,

.

T. Jensen "Discovery of
, November 2023,

,

,

Boucadair, M., Ed. Reddy.K, T., Ed. Wing, D. Cook, N.
Router Advertisement Options for the Discovery of Network-designated
Resolvers (DNR)" RFC 9463 DOI 10.17487/RFC9463
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9463>

, November 2023,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

<https://

T. Jensen "DHCP and

,

Boucadair, M. Reddy.K, T. Wing, D.
V. Smyslov "Internet Key Exchange
, and
Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2) Configuration for Encrypted DNS" RFC 9464 DOI
10.17487/RFC9464

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9464>

, November 2023,

,

,

,

,

.

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9704

Establishing Local DNS Authority

January 2025

[RFC9499]

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC9499

 and

K. Fujiwara "DNS Terminology" BCP 219 RFC 9499 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9499>

, March 2024,

,

,

,

,

.

Acknowledgements

Thanks to
Volz Éric Vyncke
,

Mohamed Boucadair Jim Reid Tommy Pauly Paul Vixie Michael Richardson Bernie

,

,

,

, and

Vinny Parla

,
 for the discussion and comments.

,

Tianran Zhou
 for the secdir review,

Thanks to
Ladd
review.

 for the opsdir review,

Anthony Somerset
 for the intdir review, and

 for the dnsdir review,
Mallory Knodel

Watson
 for the genart

Bob Halley

Thanks to

Mohamed Boucadair

 for the Shepherd review.

Authors' Addresses

Tirumaleswar Reddy.K
Nokia
India
Email:

kondtir@gmail.com

Dan Wing
Citrix Systems, Inc.
United States of America
Email:

danwing@gmail.com

Kevin Smith
Vodafone Group
One Kingdom Street
London
United Kingdom
Email:

kevin.smith@vodafone.com

Benjamin Schwartz
Meta Platforms, Inc.
Email:

ietf@bemasc.net

Reddy.K, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

