Stream:
RFC:
Updates:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9519
4250, 4716, 4819, 8308
Standards Track
January 2024
2070-1721
P. Yee
AKAYLA

RFC 9519
Update to the IANA SSH Protocol Parameters
Registry Requirements

Abstract

This specification updates the registration policies for adding new entries to registries within the
IANA "Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Parameters" group of registries. Previously, the registration
policy was generally IETF Review, as defined in RFC 8126, although a few registries require
Standards Action. This specification changes it from IETF Review to Expert Review. This
document updates RFCs 4250, 4716, 4819, and 8308.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9519
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

Yee

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9519

IANA SSH Registry Requirements

January 2024

with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  SSH Protocol Parameters Affected

3.  Designated Expert Pool

4.  IANA Considerations

5.  Security Considerations

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

6.2.  Informative References

Acknowledgements

Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2

2

3

4

5

5

5

5

5

6

6

,

[RFC4250] [RFC4716] [RFC4819]

The IANA "Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Parameters" registry was populated by several RFCs
. Outside of some narrow value ranges
, and
including
that require Standards Action in order to add new values or that are marked for Private Use, the
registration policy for other portions of the registry was IETF Review
specification changes the policy from IETF Review to Expert Review. This change is in line with
similar changes undertaken for certain IPsec and TLS registries.

[RFC8126]

[RFC8308]

. This

,

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Yee

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9519

IANA SSH Registry Requirements

January 2024

2.  SSH Protocol Parameters Affected

The following table lists the "Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Parameters" registries whose
registration policy has changed from IETF Review to Expert Review. Where this change applied
to a specific range of values within the particular parameter, that range is given in the notes
column. Affected registries now list this document as a reference.

Parameter Name

RFC

Notes

Authentication Method Names

[RFC4250]

Channel Connection Failure Reason Codes
and Descriptions

[RFC4250]

0x00000001-0xFDFFFFFF
(inclusive)

Compression Algorithm Names

[RFC4250]

Connection Protocol Channel Request
Names

[RFC4250]

Connection Protocol Channel Types

[RFC4250]

Connection Protocol Global Request
Names

[RFC4250]

Connection Protocol Subsystem Names

[RFC4250]

Disconnection Messages Reason Codes and
Descriptions

[RFC4250]

0x00000001-0xFDFFFFFF
(inclusive)

Encryption Algorithm Names

[RFC4250]

Extended Channel Data Transfer
data_type_code and Data

[RFC4250]

0x00000001-0xFDFFFFFF
(inclusive)

Extension Names

[RFC8308]

Key Exchange Method Names

[RFC4250]

MAC Algorithm Names

[RFC4250]

Pseudo-Terminal Encoded Terminal
Modes

[RFC4250]

Public Key Algorithm Names

[RFC4250]

Publickey Subsystem Attributes

[RFC4819]

Yee

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9519

IANA SSH Registry Requirements

January 2024

Parameter Name

RFC

Notes

Publickey Subsystem Request Names

[RFC4819]

Publickey Subsystem Response Names

[RFC4819]

Service Names

Signal Names

[RFC4250]

[RFC4250]

SSH Public-Key File Header Tags

[RFC4716]

Excluding header-tags beginning
with x-

Table 1: Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Parameters Affected

The only IANA SSH protocol parameter registries not affected are "Message Numbers" and
"Publickey Subsystem Status Codes", as these remain Standards Action due to their limited
resources as one-byte registry values.

3.  Designated Expert Pool

[RFC8126]

 registry requests are registered after a three-week review period on

Expert Review
the <ssh-reg-review@ietf.org> mailing list, and on the advice of one or more designated experts.
However, to allow for the allocation of values prior to publication, the designated experts may
approve registration once they are satisfied that such a specification will be published.

Registration requests sent to the mailing list for review
"Request to register value in SSH protocol parameters <specific parameter> registry").

 use an appropriate subject (e.g.,

SHOULD

Within the review period, the designated experts will either approve or deny the registration
request, communicating this decision to the review list and IANA. Denials
explanation and, if applicable, suggestions as to how to make the request successful. Registration
requests that are undetermined for a period longer than 21 days can be brought to the IESG's
attention (using the <iesg@ietf.org> mailing list) for resolution.

 include an

MUST

SHOULD

 be applied by the designated experts includes determining whether the
Criteria that
proposed registration duplicates existing functionality (which is not permitted), whether it is
likely to be of general applicability or useful only for a single application, and whether the
registration description is clear.

MUST

IANA
direct all requests for registration from other sources to the review mailing list.

 only accept registry updates from the designated experts and the IESG. It

SHOULD

It is suggested that multiple designated experts be appointed who are able to represent the
perspectives of different applications using this specification, in order to enable broadly
informed review of registration decisions. In cases where a registration decision could be
perceived as creating a conflict of interest for a particular expert, that expert
the judgment of the other experts.

SHOULD

 defer to

Yee

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9519

IANA SSH Registry Requirements

January 2024

4.  IANA Considerations

This memo is entirely about updating the IANA "Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Parameters" registry.

5.  Security Considerations

This memo does not change the Security Considerations for any of the updated RFCs.

6.  References

6.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC4250]

[RFC4819]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8308]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

 and

Lehtinen, S.
Numbers" RFC 4250 DOI 10.17487/RFC4250
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc4250>

.

C. Lonvick, Ed. "The Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol Assigned

,

, January 2006,

<https://www.rfc-

Galbraith, J. Van Dyke, J.
,
4819 DOI 10.17487/RFC4819
,
rfc4819>

.

, and

J. Bright "Secure Shell Public Key Subsystem" RFC

,

,

, March 2007,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

.

,

,

Bider, D. "Extension Negotiation in the Secure Shell (SSH) Protocol" RFC 8308
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8308>
DOI 10.17487/RFC8308
.

, March 2018,

,

6.2.  Informative References

[CURDLE-MA]

[RFC4716]

,

Turner, S. "Subject: [Curdle] Time to Review IANA SSH Registries Policies?"
message to the Curdle mailing list
arch/msg/curdle/gdiOlZr9bnrZv8umVyguGG3woIM/>

, February 2021,

<https://mailarchive.ietf.org/

,

.

Galbraith, J.
,
 and
4716 DOI 10.17487/RFC4716
,
rfc4716>

.

R. Thayer "The Secure Shell (SSH) Public Key File Format" RFC

,

, November 2006,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

Yee

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9519

IANA SSH Registry Requirements

January 2024

Acknowledgements

The impetus for this specification was a February 2021 discussion on the CURDLE mailing list
[CURDLE-MA]
.

Author's Address

Peter E. Yee
AKAYLA
Mountain View CA 94043
United States of America
Email:

 peter@akayla.com

,

Yee

Standards Track

Page 6

