Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9820
Standards Track
September 2025
2070-1721
R. Marin-Lopez
University of Murcia

D. Garcia-Carrillo
University of Oviedo

RFC 9820
Authentication Service Based on the Extensible
Authentication Protocol (EAP) for Use with the
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)

Abstract

This document specifies an authentication service that uses the Constrained Application Protocol
(CoAP) as a transport method to carry the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP). As such, it
defines an EAP lower layer based on CoAP called "CoAP-EAP". One of the main goals is to
authenticate a CoAP-enabled Internet of Things (IoT) device (EAP peer) that intends to join a
security domain managed by a Controller (EAP authenticator). Secondly, it allows deriving key
material to protect CoAP messages exchanged between them based on Object Security for
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE), enabling the establishment of a security
association between them.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9820
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Requirements Language

2.  General Architecture

3.  CoAP-EAP Operation

3.1.  Discovery

3.2.  Flow of Operation (OSCORE Establishment)

3.3.  Re-Authentication

3.4.  Managing the State of the Service

3.5.  Error Handling

3.5.1.  EAP Authentication Failure

3.5.2.  Non-Responsive Endpoint

3.5.3.  Duplicated Message with /.well-known/coap-eap

3.6.  Proxy Operation in CoAP-EAP

4.  CoAP-EAP Media Type Format

5.  CBOR Objects in CoAP-EAP

6.  Cipher Suite Negotiation and Key Derivation

6.1.  Cipher Suite Negotiation

6.2.  Deriving the OSCORE Security Context

7.  Discussion

7.1.  CoAP as the EAP Lower Layer

7.2.  Size of the EAP Lower Layer vs. EAP Method Size

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Use of EAP Methods

8.2.  Authorization

4

4

5

6

6

7

9

10

11

11

11

12

12

13

13

14

14

16

17

17

18

18

18

19

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

8.3.  Allowing CoAP-EAP Traffic to Perform Authentication

8.4.  Freshness of the Key Material

8.5.  Channel-Binding Support

8.6.  Additional Security Considerations

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  CoAP-EAP Cipher Suites

9.2.  CDDL in CoAP-EAP Information Elements

9.3.  The Well-Known URIs Registry

9.4.  The EAP Lower Layers Registry

9.5.  Media Types Registry

9.6.  CoAP Content-Formats Registry

9.7.  Resource Type (rt=) Link Target Attribute Values Registry

9.8.  Expert Review Instructions

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Flow of Operation (DTLS Establishment)

A.1.  Deriving DTLS_PSK and Identity

Appendix B.  Using CoAP-EAP for Distributing Key Material for IoT Networks

Appendix C.  Example Use Case Scenarios

C.1.  Example 1: CoAP-EAP Using ACE

C.2.  Example 2: Multiple Domains with AAA Infrastructures

C.3.  Example 3: Single Domain with a AAA Infrastructure

C.4.  Example 4: Single Domain Without a AAA Infrastructure

C.5.  Other Use Cases

C.5.1.  CoAP-EAP for Network Access Authentication

C.5.2.  CoAP-EAP for Service Authentication

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

19

19

19

20

20

20

21

22

22

22

23

23

24

24

24

25

28

29

30

30

31

32

32

32

32

32

34

34

35

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

1.  Introduction

[RFC3748]

[RFC7252]

 and is built on top of the Constrained Application
; it is called "CoAP-EAP". CoAP-EAP is an application that allows

This document specifies an authentication service (application) that uses the Extensible
Authentication Protocol (EAP)
Protocol (CoAP)
authenticating two CoAP endpoints by using EAP and establishing an Object Security for
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE) security association between them. More
specifically, this document specifies how CoAP can be used as a constrained, link-layer-
[RFC3748]
independent, reliable EAP lower layer
 to transport EAP messages between a CoAP
server (acting as an EAP peer) and a CoAP client (acting as an EAP authenticator) using CoAP
messages. The CoAP client has the option of contacting a backend Authentication, Authorization,
and Accounting (AAA) infrastructure to complete the EAP negotiation, as described in the EAP
specification

[RFC3748]
.

[RFC5433]

[RFC5247]

, the EAP Method for Global System for Mobile

MUST
. Examples of such methods are the EAP Generalized

In the case of this specification, the EAP methods that can be transported with CoAP-EAP
export cryptographic material
Pre-Shared Key (EAP-GPSK)
Communications (GSM) Subscriber Identity Modules (EAP-SIM)
3rd Generation Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA')
EAP with Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman over CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (EAP-EDHOC)
[EAP-EDHOC]
, etc. ("CBOR" stands for "Concise Binary Object Representation".) In general, any
EAP method designed in the EAP Method Update (EMU) Working Group that exports the Master
Session Key (MSK) can be used with CoAP-EAP. The MSK is used as the basis for further
cryptographic derivations. This way, CoAP messages are protected after authentication. After the
CoAP-EAP operation, an OSCORE security association is established between the endpoints of the
service. Using the keying material from the authentication, other security associations could be
generated. Appendix A shows how to establish a (D)TLS security association using the keying
material from the EAP authentication.

, the EAP Method for
, EAP-TLS 1.3

[RFC4186]
[RFC5448]

[RFC9190]
,

One of the main applications of CoAP-EAP involves Internet of Things (IoT) networks, where we
can find very constrained links (e.g., limited bandwidth) and devices with limited capabilities. In
these IoT scenarios, we identify the IoT device as the entity that wants to be authenticated by
using EAP to join a domain that is managed by a Controller. In these cases, the IoT device is the
EAP peer and the Controller is the entity steering the authentication (i.e., the EAP authenticator);
from now on, the IoT device will be referred to as the EAP peer and the Controller will be
referred to as the EAP authenticator. In these cases, EAP methods with fewer exchanges, shorter
messages, and cryptographic algorithms suitable for constrained devices are preferable. The
benefits of the EAP framework in IoT networks are highlighted in

[EAP-Framework-IoT]
.

1.1.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Readers are expected to be familiar with the terms and concepts described in CoAP
EAP

[RFC3748] [RFC5247]

, and OSCORE

[RFC8613]
.

[RFC7252]
,

2.  General Architecture

Figure 1 illustrates the architecture defined in this document. In this architecture, the EAP peer
will act as a CoAP server for this service and the domain EAP authenticator will act as a CoAP
client. The rationale behind this decision is that EAP Requests will always travel from the EAP
server to the EAP peer. Accordingly, EAP Responses will always travel from the EAP peer to the
EAP server.

 interact with a backend AAA infrastructure
It is worth noting that the EAP authenticator
MAY
when EAP pass-through mode is used, which will place the EAP server in the AAA server that
contains the information required to authenticate the EAP peer.

The protocol stack is described in Figure 2. CoAP-EAP is an application built on top of CoAP. On
top of the application, there is an EAP state machine that can run any EAP method. In the case of
this specification, the EAP method
[RFC5247]
octets. CoAP-EAP also relies on CoAP reliability mechanisms to transport EAP: CoAP over UDP
with Confirmable messages

: an MSK of at least 64 octets and an Extended Master Session Key (EMSK) of at least 64

 support key derivation and export as specified in

 or CoAP over TCP, TLS, or WebSockets

[RFC8323]
.

[RFC7252]

MUST

Figure 1: CoAP-EAP Architecture

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 5

EAPEAPAAA/peerauthenticatorEAPserverCoAPAAA(optional)SCOPEOFTHISDOCUMENTRFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Figure 2: CoAP-EAP Stack

3.  CoAP-EAP Operation

, EAP
Because CoAP-EAP uses reliable delivery as defined in CoAP
. To maintain ordering
retransmission time is set to an infinite value, as mentioned in
guarantees, CoAP-EAP uses Hypermedia as the Engine of Application State (HATEOAS). Each step
during the EAP authentication accesses a new resource in the CoAP server (EAP peer). The
previous resource is removed once the new resource is created, indicating the resource that will
process the next step of the EAP authentication.

[RFC7252] [RFC8323]

[RFC3748]

One of the benefits of using EAP is that we can choose from a large variety of authentication
methods.

In CoAP-EAP, the EAP peer will only have one authentication session with a specific EAP
authenticator, and it will not process any other EAP authentication in parallel (with the same
EAP authenticator). That is, a single ongoing EAP authentication is permitted for the same EAP
peer and the same EAP authenticator. It may be worth noting that the EAP authenticator may
have parallel EAP sessions with multiple EAP peers.

To access the authentication service, this document defines the well-known URI "coap-eap" (see
Section 9.3). The /.well-known/coap-eap URI is used with "coap", "coap+tcp", or "coap+ws".

3.1.  Discovery

Before the CoAP-EAP exchange takes place, the EAP peer needs to discover the EAP
authenticator or the entity that will enable the CoAP-EAP exchange (i.e., an intermediary). The
discovery process is outside the scope of this document.

The CoAP-EAP application can be accessed through the URI "coap-eap" for the trigger message
(see Section 3.2, Step 0). The CoAP-EAP service can be discovered by asking directly about the
services offered. This information can also be available in the resource directory

[RFC9176]
.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 6

EAPStateMachineApplication(CoAP-EAP)ThisDocumentRequests/Responses/SignalingRFC7252/RFC8323Message/MessageFramingRFC7252/RFC8323Unreliable/ReliableTransportRFC7252/RFC8323RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Implementation notes: There are different methods for discovering the IPv6 address of the EAP
authenticator or intermediary entity. For example, in a 6LoWPAN network, the Border Router
will typically act as the EAP authenticator. Hence, after receiving the Router Advertisement (RA)
messages from the Border Router, the EAP peer may engage in the CoAP-EAP exchange.

3.2.  Flow of Operation (OSCORE Establishment)

Figure 3 shows the general flow of operation for CoAP-EAP to authenticate using EAP and
establish an OSCORE Security Context. The flow does not show a specific EAP method. Instead,
the chosen EAP method is represented by using a generic name (EAP-X). The flow assumes that
the EAP peer knows the EAP authenticator implements the CoAP-EAP service. A CoAP-EAP
message has the media type "application/coap-eap". See Section 9.5.

The steps for this flow of operation are as follows:

•

MUST

 to avoid waiting for a response that is not needed. This is the only message where

 start the CoAP-EAP process by sending a "POST /.well-known/

Step 0. The EAP peer
coap-eap" request (trigger message). This message carries the 'No-Response' CoAP option
[RFC7967]
the EAP authenticator acts as a CoAP server and the EAP peer acts as a CoAP client. The
message also includes a URI in the payload of the message to indicate the resource where
the EAP authenticator
the CoAP server.

 send the next message. The name of the resource is selected by

MUST

Implementation notes: When generating the URI for a resource during a step of the
authentication, the resource could have the following format as an example "path/eap/counter",
where:

•

"path" is some local path on the device to make the path unique. This could be omitted if
desired.

•

"eap" is the name that indicates that the URI is for the EAP peer. This has no meaning for the
protocol but helps with debugging.

•

"counter" is an incrementing unique number for every new EAP Request.

So, per Figure 3, the URI for the first resource would be "/a/eap/1".

•

Step 1. The EAP authenticator sends a POST message to the resource indicated in Step 0 (e.g.,
"/a/eap/1"). The payload in this message contains the first EAP message (EAP-Request/
Identity, or EAP-Req/Id) and the Recipient ID of the EAP authenticator (RID-C) for OSCORE,
and
cipher suite list is not included, the default cipher suite for OSCORE is used. The details of
the cipher suite negotiation are discussed in Section 6.1.

 contain a CBOR array with a list of proposed cipher suites (CS-C) for OSCORE. If the

MAY

•

Step 2. The EAP peer processes the POST message sending the EAP Request (EAP-Req/Id) to
the EAP peer state machine, which returns an EAP Response (EAP-Response/Identity, or EAP-
Resp/Id). Then, the CoAP-EAP application assigns a new resource to the ongoing
authentication process (e.g., "/a/eap/2") and deletes the previous one ("/a/eap/1"). Finally, the
CoAP-EAP application sends a '2.01 Created' response with the new resource identifier in the
Location-Path (and/or Location-Query) Options for the next step. The EAP Response, the

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Recipient ID of the EAP peer (RID-I), and the selected cipher suite for OSCORE (CS-I) are
included in the payload. In this step, the EAP peer may create an OSCORE Security Context
(see Section 6.2). The required MSK will be available once the EAP authentication is
successful (Step 7).

•

Steps 3-6. From now on, the EAP authenticator and the EAP peer will exchange EAP packets
related to the EAP method (EAP-X), transported in the CoAP message payload. The EAP
authenticator will use the POST method to send EAP Requests to the EAP peer. The EAP peer
will use a CoAP response to carry the EAP Response in the payload. EAP Requests and
responses are represented in Figure 3 using the nomenclature "EAP-X-Req" and "EAP-X-
Resp", respectively. When a POST message arrives (e.g., "/a/eap/1") carrying an EAP Request
message, if processed correctly by the EAP peer state machine, it returns an EAP Response.
Along with each EAP Response, a new resource is created (e.g., "/a/eap/3") for processing the
next EAP Request and the ongoing resource (e.g., "/a/eap/2") is erased. This way, ordering
guarantees are achieved. Finally, an EAP Response is sent in the payload of a CoAP response
that will also indicate the new resource in the Location-Path (and/or Location-Query)
Options. If an error occurs while processing a legitimate message, the server will return a
'4.00 Bad Request'. Error handling is discussed in Section 3.5.

•

[RFC5247]

 (e.g., Session-Lifetime). The EAP authenticator creates the OSCORE

Step 7. When the EAP authentication ends successfully, the EAP authenticator obtains the
MSK exported by the EAP method, an EAP Success message, and some authorization
information
Security Context using the MSK and Recipient ID of both entities exchanged in Steps 1 and 2.
The establishment of the OSCORE Security Context is defined in Section 6.2. Then, the EAP
authenticator sends the POST message protected with OSCORE for key confirmation,
including the EAP Success. The EAP authenticator
seconds, which is represented by an unsigned integer in a CBOR Object (see Section 5). If this
Session-Lifetime is not sent, the EAP peer assumes a default value of 8 hours, as
RECOMMENDED
considered by the EAP peer as an alternate indication of success
state machine in the EAP peer interprets the alternate indication of success (similarly to the
arrival of an EAP Success) and returns the MSK, which is used to create the OSCORE Security
Context in the EAP peer to process the protected POST message received from the EAP
authenticator.

. The reception of the OSCORE-protected POST message is

 also send a Session-Lifetime, in

. The EAP peer

[RFC3748]

[RFC5247]

MAY

 in

•

Step 8. If the EAP authentication and the verification of the OSCORE-protected POST (Step 7)
are successful, then the EAP peer answers with an OSCORE-protected '2.04 Changed'. From
this point on, communication with the last resource (e.g., "/a/eap/(n)")
with OSCORE. If allowed by application policy, the same OSCORE Security Context
used to protect communication to other resources between the same endpoints.

 be protected

MUST

MAY

 be

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Figure 3: CoAP-EAP Flow of Operation with OSCORE

3.3.  Re-Authentication

When the CoAP-EAP state is close to expiring, the EAP peer may want to start a new
authentication process (re-authentication) to renew the state. The main goal is to obtain new and
fresh keying material (MSK/EMSK) that, in turn, allows deriving a new OSCORE Security Context,
increasing the protection against key leakage. The keying material
[RFC5247]
expiration of the Session-Lifetime. By default, the EAP key management framework
establishes a default value of 8 hours to refresh the keying material. Certain EAP methods such

 be renewed before the

MUST

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 9

EAPpeerEAPauthenticatorPOST/.well-known/coap-eap0)No-ResponsePayload("/a/eap/1")POST/a/eap/1Payload(EAP-Req/Id||CS-C||RID-C)1)2.01CreatedLocation-Path[/a/eap/2]Payload(EAP-Resp/Id||CS-I||RID-I)2)POST/a/eap/2Payload(EAP-X-Req)3)2.01CreatedLocation-Path[/a/eap/3]Payload(EAP-X-Resp)4)....POST/a/eap/(n-1)Payload(EAP-X-Req)5)2.01CreatedLocation-Path[/a/eap/(n)]Payload(EAP-X-Resp)6)MSKPOST/a/eap/(n)OSCOREPayload(EAPSuccess||*Session-Lifetime)OSCOREMSK7)CTX2.04ChangedOSCOREOSCORECTX8)*Session-LifetimeisoptionalRFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

as Nimble Out-of-Band Authentication for EAP (EAP-NOOB)
provide fast reconnect for quicker re-authentication. The EAP Re-authentication Protocol (ERP)
[RFC6696] MAY
 also be used to avoid the repetition of the entire EAP exchange.

 or EAP-AKA'

[RFC9140]

[RFC5448]

The re-authentication message flow will be the same as that shown in Figure 3. Nevertheless,
two different CoAP-EAP states will be active during the re-authentication: the current CoAP-EAP
state and the new CoAP-EAP state, which will be created once the re-authentication has finished
successfully. Once the re-authentication is completed successfully, the current CoAP-EAP state is
deleted and replaced by the new CoAP-EAP state. If for any reason the re-authentication fails, the
current CoAP-EAP state will be available until it expires, or it will be renewed during a
subsequent re-authentication attempt.

If the re-authentication fails, it is up to the EAP peer to decide when to start a new re-
authentication before the current EAP state expires.

3.4.  Managing the State of the Service

The EAP peer and the EAP authenticator keep state during the CoAP-EAP negotiation. The CoAP-
EAP state includes several important parts:

•

A reference to an instance of the EAP (peer or authenticator/server) state machine.

•

The resource for the next message in the negotiation (e.g., "/a/eap/2").

•

The MSK, which is exported when the EAP authentication is successful. CoAP-EAP can access
the different variables via the EAP state machine (see

[RFC4137]

).

•

A reference to the OSCORE context.

Once created, the EAP authenticator
 choose to delete the state as described in Figure 4.
Conversely, the EAP peer may need to renew the CoAP-EAP state because the key material is
close to expiring, as mentioned in Section 3.3.

MAY

There are situations where the current CoAP-EAP state might need to be removed. For instance,
due to its expiration or forced removal, the EAP peer has to be expelled from the security
domain. Such an exchange is illustrated in Figure 4.

If the EAP authenticator deems it necessary to remove the CoAP-EAP state from the EAP peer
before it expires, it can send a DELETE command in a request to the EAP peer, referencing the
last CoAP-EAP state resource given by the CoAP server, whose identifier will be the last one
received (e.g., "/a/eap/(n)" in Figure 3). This message is protected by the OSCORE security
association to prevent forgery. Upon reception of this message, the CoAP server sends a response
to the EAP authenticator with the code '2.02 Deleted', which is also protected by the OSCORE
security association. If a response from the EAP peer does not arrive after
EXCHANGE_LIFETIME, the EAP authenticator will remove the state.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Figure 4: Deleting State

3.5.  Error Handling

This section elaborates on how different errors are handled: EAP authentication failure (Section
3.5.1), a non-responsive endpoint (Section 3.5.2), and duplicated messages (Section 3.5.3).

3.5.1.  EAP Authentication Failure

The EAP authentication may fail in different situations (e.g., wrong credentials). The result is
that the EAP authenticator will send an EAP Failure message because of a failed EAP
authentication (Step 7 in Figure 3). In this case, the EAP peer
Unauthorized' in Step 8. Therefore, Steps 7 and 8 are not protected in this case because no MSK
is exported and the OSCORE Security Context is not yet generated.

 send a response '4.01

MUST

If the EAP authentication fails during the re-authentication and the EAP authenticator sends an
EAP Failure, the current CoAP-EAP state will still be usable until it expires.

3.5.2.  Non-Responsive Endpoint

If for any reason one of the entities becomes non-responsive, the CoAP-EAP state
removed after a stipulated amount of time. The amount of time can be adjusted according to the
policies established by the application or use case where CoAP-EAP is used. As a default value,
the CoAP EXCHANGE_LIFETIME parameter, as defined in CoAP

, will be used.

[RFC7252]

SHOULD

 be

The removal of the CoAP-EAP state in the EAP authenticator assumes that the EAP peer will need
to authenticate again.

According to CoAP, EXCHANGE_LIFETIME considers the time it takes until a client stops
expecting a response to a request. A timer is reset every time a message is sent. By default, CoAP-
EAP adopts the value of EXCHANGE_LIFETIME as a timer in the EAP peer and authenticator to
remove the CoAP-EAP state if the authentication process has not progressed to completion
during that time.

The EAP peer will remove the CoAP-EAP state if either the EXCHANGE_LIFETIME is triggered or
the EAP peer state machine returns an eapFail.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 11

EAPpeerEAPauthenticatorDELETE/a/eap/(n)OSCORE2.02DeletedOSCORERFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

The EAP authenticator will remove the CoAP-EAP state if either the EXCHANGE_LIFETIME is
triggered or, when the EAP authenticator is operating in pass-through mode (i.e., the EAP
authentication is performed against a AAA server), the EAP authenticator state machine returns
"aaaTimeout"

[RFC4137]
.

3.5.3.  Duplicated Message with /.well-known/coap-eap

The reception of the trigger message (Step 0 in Figure 3) containing the URI /coap-eap needs
some additional considerations, as the resource is always available in the EAP authenticator.

If a trigger message arrives at the EAP authenticator during an ongoing authentication with the
same EAP peer, the EAP authenticator

 silently discard this trigger message.

MUST

If an old "POST /.well-known/coap-eap" (Step 0 in Figure 5) arrives at the EAP authenticator and
there is no authentication ongoing, the EAP authenticator may understand that a new
authentication process is requested. Consequently, the EAP authenticator will start a new EAP
authentication. However, if the EAP peer did not start any authentication, it will send a '4.04 Not
Found' in the response (Figure 5).

Figure 5: /.well-known/coap-eap with No Ongoing Authentication from the EAP Authenticator

3.6.  Proxy Operation in CoAP-EAP

The CoAP-EAP operation is intended to be compatible with the use of intermediary entities
between the EAP peer and the EAP authenticator when direct communication is not possible. In
this context, CoAP proxies can be used as enablers of the CoAP-EAP exchange.

This specification is limited to using standard CoAP
options
to ease the integration of CoAP intermediaries in the CoAP-EAP exchange.

[RFC7252]
. It does not specify any addition in the form of CoAP options. This is expected

 as well as standardized CoAP

[RFC8613]

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 12

EAPpeerEAPauthenticator*POST/.well-known/coap-eap0)No-ResponsePayload("/a/eap/1")POST/a/eap/1Payload(EAP-Req/Id||CS-C)1)4.04Notfound*OldRFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

When using proxies in the CoAP-EAP exchange, it should be considered that the exchange
contains a role-reversal process at the beginning of the exchange. In the first message, the EAP
peer acts as a CoAP client and the EAP authenticator acts as the CoAP server. In the remaining
exchanges, the roles are reversed (i.e., the EAP peer acts as the CoAP server, and the EAP
authenticator acts as the CoAP client). When using a proxy in the exchange, for message 0 it will
act as a forward proxy, and as a reverse proxy for the rest. Additionally, in the first exchange, the
EAP peer, as a CoAP client, sends the URI for the next CoAP message in the payload of a request.
This is not the typical behavior, as URIs referring to new services/resources appear in Location-
Path and/or Location-Query Options in CoAP responses. Hence, the proxy will have to treat the
payload of Message 0 as if it were a Location-Path Option of a CoAP response.

4.  CoAP-EAP Media Type Format

In the CoAP-EAP exchange, the format specified by the "application/coap-eap" media type will be
used. See Section 9.5.

In CoAP-EAP, there are two different elements that can be sent over the payload. The first one is
a relative URI. This payload will be present for the first message (0) in Figure 3.

In all the other cases, an EAP message will be followed by the CBOR Object specified in Section 5.
A visual example of the second case can be found in Figure 7 (Section 6.1).

5.  CBOR Objects in CoAP-EAP

In the CoAP-EAP exchange, information needs to be exchanged between the two entities -- for
example, the cipher suites that need to be negotiated, or authorization information (Session-
Lifetime). There may also be a need to extend the information that has to be exchanged in the
future. This section specifies the CBOR data structure
between the EAP peer and the EAP authenticator in the CoAP payload.

 to exchange information

[RFC8949]

Figure 6 shows the specification of the CBOR Object to exchange information in CoAP-EAP.

   CoAP-EAP_Info = {
      ?  1 : [+ int],     ; Cipher Suite (CS-C or CS-I)
      ?  2 : bstr,        ; RID-C
      ?  3 : bstr,        ; RID-I
      ?  4 : uint         ; Session-Lifetime
  }

Figure 6: CBOR Data Structure for CoAP-EAP

The parameters contain the following information:

1.

Cipher Suite: An array with the list of proposed, or selected, CBOR Object Signing and
Encryption (COSE) algorithms for OSCORE. If the field is carried over a request, a proposed
cipher suite is indicated; if it is carried over a response, it corresponds to the agreed-upon
cipher suite.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

2.

RID-C: The Recipient ID of the EAP authenticator. The EAP peer uses this value as the Sender
ID for its OSCORE Sender Context. The EAP authenticator uses this value as the Recipient ID
for its Recipient Context.

3.

RID-I: The Recipient ID of the EAP peer. The EAP authenticator uses this value as the Sender
ID for its OSCORE Sender Context. The EAP peer uses this value as the Recipient ID for its
Recipient Context.

4.

Session-Lifetime: The time that the session is valid, in seconds.

Other indexes can be used to carry additional values as needed, like specific authorization
parameters.

The indexes from 65001 to 65535 are reserved for experimentation.

6.  Cipher Suite Negotiation and Key Derivation

6.1.  Cipher Suite Negotiation

OSCORE runs after the EAP authentication, using the cipher suite selected in the cipher suite
negotiation (Steps 1 and 2 in Figure 3). To negotiate the cipher suite, CoAP-EAP follows a simple
approach: The EAP authenticator sends a list, in decreasing order of preference, with the
identifiers of the supported cipher suites (Step 1 in Figure 8). In the response to that message
(Step 2 in Figure 8), the EAP peer sends its choice.

This list is included in the payload after the EAP message through a CBOR array. An example of
how the fields are arranged in the CoAP payload can be seen in Figure 7. An example exchange
for the cipher suite negotiation is shown in Figure 8. The EAP Request (EAP-Req/Id) and EAP
Response (EAP-Resp/Id) are sent; both messages include the CBOR Object (Section 5) containing
the cipher suite field for the cipher suite negotiation.

Figure 7: Cipher Suites in the CoAP Payload

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 14

CodeIdentifierLengthDataciphersuitesEAPPacketCBORarrayRFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Figure 8: Cipher Suite Negotiation

If there is no CBOR array specifying the cipher suites, the default cipher suites are applied. If the
EAP authenticator sends a restricted list of cipher suites that can be accepted, it
the default value 0, since it is mandatory to implement. The EAP peer will have at least that
option available.

 include

MUST

[RFC9053]

. By default, the HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key

The cipher suite requirements are inherited from those established by OSCORE
which are COSE algorithms
Derivation Function (HKDF) algorithm is SHA-256 and the Authenticated Encryption with
Associated Data (AEAD) algorithm is AES-CCM-16-64-128
Message Authentication Code".) Both are mandatory to implement. The other supported and
negotiated cipher suites are listed below; these hash algorithms are considered in cases where
the specification includes DTLS support in the future (TLS_SHA256, TLS_SHA384, TLS_SHA512;
see Appendix A):

[RFC8613]
,

[RFC9053]

. ("HMAC" stands for "Hashed

•

0) AES-CCM-16-64-128, SHA-256 (default)

•

1) A128GCM, SHA-256

•

2) A256GCM, SHA-384

•

3) ChaCha20/Poly1305, SHA-256

•

4) ChaCha20/Poly1305, SHAKE256

This specification uses the HKDF as defined in
Since the key derivation process uses the MSK, which is considered fresh key material, the HKDF-
Expand function (shortened here as "KDF") will be used. See Section 8.1 regarding why the use of
this function is enough and it is not necessary to use KDF-Extract.

 to derive the necessary key material.

[RFC5869]

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 15

EAPpeerEAPAuth.(CoAPserver)(CoAPclient)...POST/a/eap/1Payload(EAP-Req/Id,CBORArray[0,1,2])1)2.01CreatedLocation-Path[/a/eap/2]Payload(EAP-Resp/Id,CBORArray[0])2)...RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

6.2.  Deriving the OSCORE Security Context

The derivation of the OSCORE Security Context allows securing the communication between the
EAP peer and the EAP authenticator once the MSK has been exported, providing confidentiality,
integrity, key confirmation (Steps 7 and 8 in Figure 3), and detection of downgrading attacks.

Once the Master Secret and Master Salt are derived, they can be used to derive the rest of the
OSCORE Security Context (see
is not provided for the OSCORE Security Context derivation.

). It should be noted that the ID Context

Section 3.2.1 of [RFC8613]

The Master Secret can be derived by using the chosen cipher suite and the KDF as follows:

Master Secret = KDF(MSK, CS | "COAP-EAP OSCORE MASTER SECRET", length)

where:

•

The MSK is exported by the EAP method. The use of the MSK for key derivation is discussed
in Section 8.

•

CS is the concatenation of the content of the cipher suite negotiation -- that is, the
concatenation of two CBOR arrays CS-C and CS-I (with CBOR ints as elements), as defined in
Section 5. If neither CS-C nor CS-I was sent (i.e., default algorithms are used), the value used
to generate CS will be the same as if the default algorithms were explicitly sent in CS-C or CS-
I (i.e., a CBOR array with the cipher suite value of 0).

•

"COAP-EAP OSCORE MASTER SECRET" is the ASCII code representation of the non-NULL-
terminated string (excluding the double quotes around it).

•

CS and "COAP-EAP OSCORE MASTER SECRET" are concatenated.

•

length is the size of the output key material.

Similarly to the Master Secret, the Master Salt can be derived as follows:

Master Salt = KDF(MSK, CS | "COAP-EAP OSCORE MASTER SALT", length)

where:

•

The MSK is exported by the EAP method. The use of the MSK for key derivation is discussed
in Section 8.

•

CS is the concatenation of the content of the cipher suite negotiation -- that is, the
concatenation of two CBOR arrays CS-C and CS-I (with CBOR ints as elements), as defined in
Section 5. If neither CS-C nor CS-I was sent (i.e., default algorithms are used), the value used
to generate CS will be the same as if the default algorithms were explicitly sent in CS-C or CS-
I (i.e., a CBOR array with the cipher suite value of 0).

•

"COAP-EAP OSCORE MASTER SALT" is the ASCII code representation of the non-NULL-
terminated string (excluding the double quotes around it).

•

CS and "COAP-EAP OSCORE MASTER SALT" are concatenated.

•

length is the size of the output key material.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Since the MSK is used to derive the Master Key, the correct verification of the OSCORE-protected
request (Step 7) and response (Step 8) confirms that the EAP authenticator and the EAP peer
have the same Master Secret, achieving key confirmation.

To prevent a downgrading attack, the content of the cipher suite (referred to here as "CS")
negotiation is embedded in the Master Secret derivation. If an attacker changes the value of the
cipher suite negotiation, the result will be different OSCORE Security Contexts, which in turn will
result in failure in Steps 7 and 8.

The EAP authenticator will use the Recipient ID of the EAP peer (RID-I) as the Sender ID for its
OSCORE Sender Context. The EAP peer will use this value as the Recipient ID for its Recipient
Context.

The EAP peer will use the Recipient ID of the EAP authenticator (RID-C) as the Sender ID for its
OSCORE Sender Context. The EAP authenticator will use this value as the Recipient ID for its
Recipient Context.

7.  Discussion

7.1.  CoAP as the EAP Lower Layer

This section discusses the suitability of CoAP as the EAP lower layer and reviews the requisites
imposed by EAP on any protocol transporting EAP. What EAP expects from its lower layers can
be found in

, which is elaborated next:

Section 3.1 of [RFC3748]

Unreliable transport:

EAP does not assume that lower layers are reliable, but it can benefit

from a reliable lower layer. In this sense, CoAP provides a reliability mechanism (e.g., using
Confirmable messages).

Lower-layer error detection:

EAP relies on lower-layer error detection (e.g., CRC, checksum,

Message Integrity Check (MIC), etc.). For simplicity, CoAP-EAP delegates error detection to the
lower layers, such as the link layer or transport layer (e.g., UDP over IPv6 or TCP).

Lower-layer security:

EAP does not require security services from the lower layers.

Minimum MTU:

Lower layers need to provide an EAP MTU size of 1020 octets or greater. CoAP

assumes an upper bound of 1024 octets for its payload, which covers the EAP requirements
when only the EAP message is sent in the CoAP payload. In the case of Messages 1 and 2 in
Figure 3, those messages have extra information apart from EAP. Nevertheless, the EAP-Req/
Id has a fixed length of 5 bytes. Message 2, with the EAP-Resp/Id, would limit the length of the
identity being used to the CoAP payload maximum size (1024) - len( CS-I || RID-I ) - EAP
Response header (5 bytes), which leaves enough space for sending even lengthy identities.
Nevertheless, this limitation can be overcome by using CoAP block-wise transfers
Note: When EAP is proxied over a AAA framework, the Access-Request packets in RADIUS
 contain a Framed-MTU attribute with a value of 1024 and, in Diameter, the Framed-
MUST
MTU Attribute-Value Pair (AVP) with a value of 1024. This information signals the AAA server
that it should limit its responses to 1024 octets.

[RFC7959]
.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Ordering guarantees: EAP relies on lower-layer ordering guarantees for correct operation.

Regarding message ordering, every time a new message arrives at the authentication service
hosted by the EAP peer, a new resource is created, and this is indicated in a '2.01 Created'
response code along with the name of the new resource via Location-Path or Location-Query
Options. This way, the application shows that its state has advanced.

[RFC3748]

 states that "EAP provides its own support for duplicate elimination and

Although
retransmission," EAP is also reliant on lower-layer ordering guarantees. In this regard,
talks about possible duplication and says, "Where the lower layer is reliable, it will provide the
EAP layer with a non-duplicated stream of packets. However, while it is desirable that lower
layers provide for non-duplication, this is not a requirement." CoAP provides a non-duplicated
 says
stream of packets and accomplishes the desirable non-duplication. In addition,
that when EAP runs over a reliable lower layer "the authenticator retransmission timer
SHOULD
be set to an infinite value, so that retransmissions do not occur at the EAP layer."

[RFC3748]

[RFC3748]

7.2.  Size of the EAP Lower Layer vs. EAP Method Size

Regarding the impact that an EAP lower layer will have on the number of bytes of the whole
authentication exchange,
 provides a comparison with another network-layer-based
EAP lower layer, the Protocol for Carrying Authentication for Network Access (PANA) as defined
in

[CoAP-EAP]

[RFC5191]
.

The EAP method being transported will take most of the exchange. However, the impact of the
EAP lower layer cannot be ignored, especially in very constrained communication technologies
such as those with limited capabilities (e.g., as can be found in IoT networks).

Note: To improve efficiency in environments with constrained devices and networks, the latest
) are recommended
versions of EAP methods (e.g., EAP-AKA'
[RFC9140]
over older versions. EAP methods more adapted for IoT networks (e.g., EAP-NOOB
,
, etc.) are also recommended.
EAP-EDHOC

[EAP-EDHOC]

, EAP-TLS 1.3

[RFC9190]

[RFC5448]

8.  Security Considerations

Security aspects to be considered include how authorization is managed, the use of the MSK as
key material, and how trust in the EAP authenticator is established. Additional considerations
such as EAP channel binding as per

 are also discussed here.

[RFC6677]

8.1.  Use of EAP Methods

This document limits the use of EAP methods to those compliant with
and fresh session keys such as the MSK. By this assumption, the HKDF-Expand function is used
directly, as clarified in

[RFC5869]
.

, yielding strong

[RFC4017]

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

8.2.  Authorization

Authorization is part of bootstrapping. It serves to establish whether the EAP peer can join and
the set of conditions it must adhere to. The authorization data will be gathered from the
organization that is responsible for the EAP peer and sent to the EAP authenticator if a AAA
infrastructure is deployed.

In standalone mode, the authorization information will be in the EAP authenticator. If pass-
through mode is used, authorization data received from the AAA server can be delivered by the
AAA protocol (e.g., RADIUS or Diameter). Providing more fine-grained authorization data can be
done by transporting the data using the Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) in RADIUS
[RFC7833]
. After bootstrapping, additional authorization information may be needed to operate
in the security domain. This can be taken care of by the solutions proposed in the Authentication
[RFC9200]
and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE) WG, such as the use of OAuth
,
among other solutions, to provide ACE.

8.3.  Allowing CoAP-EAP Traffic to Perform Authentication

Since CoAP is an application protocol, CoAP-EAP assumes certain IP connectivity in the link
between the EAP peer and the EAP authenticator to run. This link
unprotected IP traffic to be sent between the EAP peer and the EAP authenticator during the
authentication with CoAP-EAP. Once the authentication is successful, the key material generated
by the EAP authentication (MSK) and any other traffic can be authorized if it is protected. It is
worth noting that if the EAP authenticator is not in the same link as the EAP peer and an
intermediate entity (e.g., a CoAP proxy) helps with this process, this concept also applies to the
communication between the EAP peer and the intermediary.

 only authorize

MUST

Alternatively, the link layer
by using link-layer frames (e.g., by defining a new Key Management Protocol ID per IEEE 802.15.9
[IEEE802159]

 provide support to transport CoAP-EAP without an IP address

MAY

).

8.4.  Freshness of the Key Material

In CoAP-EAP, there is no nonce exchange to provide freshness to the keys derived from the MSK.
The MSKs and EMSKs are fresh key material per
established per EAP authenticator, there is no need to generate additional key material. If a new
MSK is required, a re-authentication can be done by running the process again or using a more
lightweight EAP method to derive additional key material as elaborated in Section 3.3.

. Since only one authentication is

[RFC5247]

8.5.  Channel-Binding Support

According to
supporting it.

[RFC6677]

, channel binding, as related to EAP, is sent through the EAP method

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

To satisfy the requirements of this document, the EAP lower-layer identifier for CoAP-EAP (10, as
assigned by IANA; see Section 9.4) needs to be sent, in the EAP Lower-Layer Attribute if RADIUS
is used.

8.6.  Additional Security Considerations

In the authentication process, it is possible for an entity to forge messages to generate denial-of-
service (DoS) attacks on any of the entities involved. For instance, an attacker can forge multiple
initial messages to start an authentication (Step 0 in Figure 3) with the EAP authenticator as if
they were sent by different EAP peers. Consequently, the EAP authenticator will start an
authentication process for each message received in Step 0, sending the EAP-Req/Id (Step 1).

RECOMMENDED

To minimize the effects of this DoS attack, it is
the rate at which it processes incoming messages in Step 0 to provide robustness against DoS
attacks. The details of rate limiting are outside the scope of this specification. Nevertheless, the
rate of these messages is also limited by the bandwidth available between the EAP peer and the
EAP authenticator. This bandwidth will be especially limited in constrained links (e.g., Low-
Power WANs (LPWANs)). Lastly, it is also
the EAP authenticator at least until the EAP-Resp/Id is received by the EAP authenticator.

 to reduce at a minimum the state in

 that the EAP authenticator limit

RECOMMENDED

Another security-related concern is how to ensure that the EAP peer joining the security domain
can trust the EAP authenticator. This issue is elaborated in
. In particular, the EAP peer
knows it can trust the EAP authenticator because the key that is used to establish the security
association is derived from the MSK. If the EAP authenticator has the MSK, it is because the AAA
server of the EAP peer trusted the EAP authenticator.

[RFC5247]

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  CoAP-EAP Cipher Suites

IANA has created a new registry titled "CoAP-EAP Cipher Suites" under a new registry group
named "CoAP-EAP". The registration procedures are "Specification Required", "Private Use", and
"Standards Action with Expert Review" (see

), as shown in Table 1.

[RFC8126]

Range

Registration Procedures

-65536 to -25

Specification Required

-24 to -21

Private Use

-20 to 23

Standards Action with Expert Review

24 to 65535

Specification Required

Table 1: Registration Procedures for CoAP-EAP Cipher
Suites

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

The columns of the registry are Value, Algorithms, Description, and Reference, where Value is an
integer and the other columns are text strings. The initial registrations are shown in Table 2.

Value Algorithms Description

Reference

0

1

2

3

4

10, -16

AES-CCM-16-64-128, SHA-256

RFC 9820

1, -16

3, -43

A128GCM, SHA-256

A256GCM, SHA-384

RFC 9820

RFC 9820

24, -16

ChaCha20/Poly1305, SHA-256

RFC 9820

24, -45

ChaCha20/Poly1305, SHAKE256

RFC 9820

Table 2: CoAP-EAP Cipher Suites: Initial Registrations

9.2.  CDDL in CoAP-EAP Information Elements

IANA has created a new registry titled "CoAP-EAP Information Elements" under a new registry
group named "CoAP-EAP". The registration procedures are "Standards Action with Expert
Review", "Private Use", "Specification Required", and "Experimental Use" (see
shown in Table 3.

[RFC8126]

), as

Range

0 to 23

Registration Procedures

Standards Action with Expert Review

24 to 49

Private Use

50 to 65000

Specification Required

65001 to 65535

Experimental Use

Table 3: Registration Procedures for CoAP-EAP Information
Elements

The columns of the registry are Name, Label, CBOR Type, Description, and Reference, where
Label is an integer and the other columns are text strings. The initial registrations are shown in
Table 4.

Name

Label

Cipher Suite

RID-C

1

2

CBOR
Type

CBOR
Array

Byte
String

Description

Reference

List of the proposed or selected COSE
algorithms for OSCORE

Contains the Recipient ID of the EAP
authenticator

RFC 9820

RFC 9820

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Name

Label

RID-I

Session-
Lifetime

3

4

CBOR
Type

Byte
String

uint

Description

Reference

Contains the Recipient ID of the EAP peer

RFC 9820

Contains the time that the session is
valid, in seconds

RFC 9820

Table 4: CoAP-EAP Information Elements: Initial Registrations

9.3.  The Well-Known URIs Registry

IANA has added the well-known URI "coap-eap" to the "Well-Known URIs" registry under the
"Well-Known URIs" registry group defined by

[RFC8615]
.

coap-eap
RFC 9820

URI Suffix:
Reference:
Status:
Change Controller:

permanent

IETF

9.4.  The EAP Lower Layers Registry

IANA has added the identifier "CoAP-EAP" to the "EAP Lower Layers" registry (defined by
[RFC6677]

) under the "Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) Registry".

10

Value:
Lower Layer:
Reference:

CoAP-EAP

RFC 9820

9.5.  Media Types Registry

IANA has added the media type "application/coap-eap" to the "Media Types" registry. Section 4
defines the format.

Type name:

application

Subtype name:

coap-eap

Required parameters:

N/A

Optional parameters:

N/A

Encoding considerations:

binary

Security considerations:

See Section 8 of RFC 9820.

Interoperability considerations:

N/A

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Published specification:

RFC 9820

Applications that use this media type:

To be identified

Fragment identifier considerations:

N/A

Additional information:

Magic number(s):
File extension(s):
Macintosh file type code(s):

N/A
N/A

N/A

Person and email address to contact for further information:

ace@ietf.org

Intended usage:

COMMON

Restrictions on usage:

N/A

Author:

See the "Authors' Addresses" section of RFC 9820.

Change Controller:

IETF

9.6.  CoAP Content-Formats Registry

IANA has added the media type "application/coap-eap" to the "CoAP Content-Formats" registry
under the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters" registry group, following the
specification in

Section 12.3 of [RFC7252]
.

Media Type

Content Encoding

ID

Reference

application/coap-eap

-

269

RFC 9820

Table 5: CoAP Content-Formats Registry

9.7.  Resource Type (rt=) Link Target Attribute Values Registry

IANA has added the resource type "core.coap-eap" to the "Resource Type (rt=) Link Target
Attribute Values" registry under the "Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Parameters"
registry group.

Value

Description

Reference

core.coap-eap

CoAP-EAP resource

RFC 9820

Table 6: Resource Type (rt=) Link Target Attribute
Values Registry

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

9.8.  Expert Review Instructions

The IANA registries established in this document apply the "Specification Required", "Private
Use", "Standards Action with Expert Review", and "Experimental Use" policies. (See also
[RFC8126]
they are designated experts for a reason, they should be granted flexibility.

.) This section provides general guidelines for what experts should focus on, but as

•

When defining the use of CoAP-EAP Information Elements (IEs), experts are expected to
evaluate how the values are defined, their scope, and whether they align with CoAP-EAP's
functionality and constraints. They are expected to assess whether the values are clear, well
structured, and follow CoAP and CoAP-EAP conventions, such as concise encoding for
constrained environments. They should ensure that these IEs can seamlessly integrate with
existing CoAP implementations and extensions. Experts are also expected to verify that IE
values are protected from unauthorized modification or misuse during transmission.

•

When adding new cipher suites, experts must ensure that algorithm values are sourced
from the appropriate registry when required. They should also consider seeking input from
relevant IETF working groups regarding the accuracy of registered parameters.

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3748]

[RFC5247]

[RFC6677]

[RFC7252]

[RFC7959]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

,

Aboba, B. Blunk, L. Vollbrecht, J. Carlson, J.
Authentication Protocol (EAP)" RFC 3748 DOI 10.17487/RFC3748
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3748>
.

, and

,

,

H. Levkowetz, Ed. "Extensible

,

, June 2004,

Aboba, B. Simon, D.
,
Key Management Framework" RFC 5247 DOI 10.17487/RFC5247
,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5247>
.

P. Eronen "Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
, August 2008,

, and

,

,

Hartman, S., Ed. Clancy, T.
Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) Methods" RFC 6677 DOI 10.17487/
RFC6677

K. Hoeper "Channel-Binding Support for
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6677>

, July 2012,

, and

,
.

,

Shelby, Z. Hartke, K.
,
(CoAP)" RFC 7252 DOI 10.17487/RFC7252
editor.org/info/rfc7252>

, and

,

,

.

C. Bormann "The Constrained Application Protocol

,

, June 2014,

<https://www.rfc-

 and

Bormann, C.
,
Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 7959 DOI 10.17487/RFC7959
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7959>

Z. Shelby, Ed. "Block-Wise Transfers in the Constrained

,

,

.

, August 2016,

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

[RFC8174]

[RFC8323]

[RFC8613]

[RFC8949]

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Bormann, C. Lemay, S. Tschofenig, H. Hartke, K. Silverajan, B.
,
Ed. "CoAP (Constrained Application Protocol) over TCP, TLS, and WebSockets"
RFC 8323 DOI 10.17487/RFC8323
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/
info/rfc8323>

, February 2018,

B. Raymor,
,

, and

,

,

.

,

Selander, G. Mattsson, J. Palombini, F.
L. Seitz "Object Security for
Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE)" RFC 8613 DOI 10.17487/
,
RFC8613

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8613>

, July 2019,

, and

,

,

,

.

Bormann, C.
STD 94 RFC 8949 DOI 10.17487/RFC8949
editor.org/info/rfc8949>

P. Hoffman "Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR)"
 and
<https://www.rfc-
,

, December 2020,

,

,

.

,

10.2.  Informative References

[CoAP-EAP]

[EAP-EDHOC]

Garcia-Carrillo, D.
Service for the Internet of Things" Sensors, vol. 16, no. 3 DOI 10.3390/
,
s16030358

<https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/16/3/358>

R. Marin-Lopez "Lightweight CoAP-Based Bootstrapping

, 2016,

 and

,

,

.

,

,

Garcia-Carrillo, D. Marin-Lopez, R. Selander, G. Preuß Mattsson, J.
,
Lopez-Gomez "Using the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) with
Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman over COSE (EDHOC)" Work in Progress Internet-
Draft, draft-ietf-emu-eap-edhoc-05
html/draft-ietf-emu-eap-edhoc-05>

,
<https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/
, 30 July 2025,
.

, and

F.

,

,

[EAP-Framework-IoT]

 and

Sethi, M.

T. Aura "Secure Network Access Authentication for IoT
,

Devices: EAP Framework vs. Individual Protocols" IEEE Communications
Standards Magazine, vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 34-39 DOI 10.1109/MCOMSTD.201.2000088
,
2021,

<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9579387>

,

,

.

[IEEE802159]

[LO-CoAP-EAP]

[RFC4017]

,

IEEE "IEEE Standard for Transport of Key Management Protocol (KMP)
Datagrams" IEEE Std 802.15.9-2021 DOI 10.1109/IEEESTD.2022.9690134
,
2022,

<https://doi.org/10.1109/IEEESTD.2022.9690134>

,

.

, January

,

Garcia-Carrillo, D. Marin-Lopez, R. Kandasamy, A.

,
Based Network Access Authentication Service for Low-Power Wide Area
Networks: LO-CoAP-EAP" Sensors, vol. 17, no. 11 DOI 10.3390/s17112646
<https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/17/11/2646>

A. Pelov "A CoAP-
,

, and

,

,

.

, 2017,

Stanley, D. Walker, J.
,
Method Requirements for Wireless LANs" RFC 4017 DOI 10.17487/RFC4017
March 2005,

B. Aboba "Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4017>

, and

,

,

,

.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

[RFC4137]

[RFC4186]

[RFC4764]

[RFC5191]

[RFC5433]

[RFC5448]

[RFC5869]

[RFC6696]

[RFC7833]

[RFC7967]

[RFC8126]

[RFC8446]

,

Y. Ohba "State Machines for Extensible
Vollbrecht, J. Eronen, P. Petroni, N.
Authentication Protocol (EAP) Peer and Authenticator" RFC 4137 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4137

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4137>

, August 2005,

, and

,
.

,

,

,

 and

J. Salowey, Ed. "Extensible Authentication Protocol

Haverinen, H., Ed.
Method for Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) Subscriber
Identity Modules (EAP-SIM)" RFC 4186 DOI 10.17487/RFC4186
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4186>

,

,

,

.

, January 2006,

 and

H. Tschofenig "The EAP-PSK Protocol: A Pre-Shared Key

Bersani, F.
Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) Method" RFC 4764 DOI 10.17487/
RFC4764

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4764>

, January 2007,

,

,

,

.

,

Forsberg, D. Ohba, Y., Ed. Patil, B. Tschofenig, H.
Carrying Authentication for Network Access (PANA)" RFC 5191 DOI 10.17487/
RFC5191

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5191>

A. Yegin "Protocol for

, and
,

, May 2008,

,
,

,

,

.

 and

H. Tschofenig "Extensible Authentication Protocol - Generalized

Clancy, T.
Pre-Shared Key (EAP-GPSK) Method" RFC 5433 DOI 10.17487/RFC5433
2009,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5433>
.

, February

,

,

,

, and

Arkko, J. Lehtovirta, V.
,
Protocol Method for 3rd Generation Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-
AKA')" RFC 5448 DOI 10.17487/RFC5448
,
info/rfc5448>

P. Eronen "Improved Extensible Authentication

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, May 2009,

,

.

Krawczyk, H.
Function (HKDF)" RFC 5869 DOI 10.17487/RFC5869
editor.org/info/rfc5869>

P. Eronen "HMAC-based Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation
 and
,

, May 2010,

<https://www.rfc-

,
,

.

,

,

Cao, Z. He, B. Shi, Y. Wu, Q., Ed.
, and
Re-authentication Protocol (ERP)" RFC 6696 DOI 10.17487/RFC6696
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6696>

G. Zorn, Ed. "EAP Extensions for the EAP
, July 2012,

,

,

,

.

, and

Howlett, J. Hartman, S.
,
Binding, Profiles, Name Identifier Format, and Confirmation Methods for the
Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)" RFC 7833 DOI 10.17487/RFC7833
May 2016,

A. Perez-Mendez, Ed. "A RADIUS Attribute,
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7833>

,

,

.

,

Bhattacharyya, A. Bandyopadhyay, S. Pal, A.
,
Application Protocol (CoAP) Option for No Server Response" RFC 7967 DOI
10.17487/RFC7967
.

T. Bose "Constrained
,
,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7967>

, August 2016,

, and

,

,

Cotton, M. Leiba, B.
,
Considerations Section in RFCs" BCP 26 RFC 8126 DOI 10.17487/RFC8126
2017,

T. Narten "Guidelines for Writing an IANA

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8126>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

, June

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

[RFC8615]

[RFC8824]

[RFC9031]

[RFC9053]

[RFC9140]

[RFC9147]

[RFC9176]

[RFC9190]

[RFC9200]

[THREAD]

[TS133.501]

Nottingham, M. "Well-Known Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs)" RFC 8615
DOI 10.17487/RFC8615
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8615>

, May 2019,

,

,

,

,

Minaburo, A. Toutain, L.
Compression (SCHC) for the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP)" RFC 8824
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8824

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8824>

R. Andreasen "Static Context Header

, June 2021,

, and

,

,

.

,

Vučinić, M., Ed. Simon, J. Pister, K.
Protocol (CoJP) for 6TiSCH" RFC 9031 DOI 10.17487/RFC9031
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9031>

, and
,

,

,

.

M. Richardson "Constrained Join

,

, May 2021,

<https://

,

Schaad, J. "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Initial Algorithms" RFC
9053 DOI 10.17487/RFC9053
,
rfc9053>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, August 2022,

,

.

Aura, T. Sethi, M.
A. Peltonen "Nimble Out-of-Band Authentication for EAP
,
(EAP-NOOB)" RFC 9140 DOI 10.17487/RFC9140
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9140>

, December 2021,

<https://

, and

,

,

.

,

Rescorla, E. Tschofenig, H.
Security (DTLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 9147 DOI 10.17487/RFC9147
2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9147>

N. Modadugu "The Datagram Transport Layer

, April

, and

,
.

,

,

,

Amsüss, C., Ed. Shelby, Z. Koster, M. Bormann, C.
,
"Constrained RESTful Environments (CoRE) Resource Directory" RFC 9176 DOI
10.17487/RFC9176

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9176>

P. van der Stok

, April 2022,

, and

,

,

,

,

.

Preuß Mattsson, J.
Authentication Protocol with TLS 1.3" RFC 9190 DOI 10.17487/RFC9190
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9190>
February 2022,

M. Sethi "EAP-TLS 1.3: Using the Extensible

 and

,

,

,

.

,

,

,

Seitz, L. Selander, G. Wahlstroem, E. Erdtman, S.
,
"Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments Using the
OAuth 2.0 Framework (ACE-OAuth)" RFC 9200 DOI 10.17487/RFC9200
2022,

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9200>
.

H. Tschofenig

, and

,

,

, August

 and

E. Dijk "Thread 1.4 Features White Paper"

Kumar, S.
<https://www.threadgroup.org/Portals/0/Documents/
Thread_1.4_Features_White_Paper_September_2024.pdf>

,

.

, September 2024,

,

ETSI "5G; Security architecture and procedures for 5G System" V18.9.0 ETSI TS
133 501
133500_133599/133501/18.09.00_60/ts_133501v180900p.pdf>

<https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_ts/

, April 2025,

.

,

,

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Appendix A.  Flow of Operation (DTLS Establishment)

CoAP-EAP makes it possible to derive a Pre-Shared Key (PSK) from the MSK to allow (D)TLS PSK-
based authentication between the EAP peer and the EAP authenticator instead of using OSCORE.
In the case of using (D)TLS to establish a security association, there is a limitation on the use of
intermediaries between the EAP peer and the EAP authenticator, as (D)TLS breaks the end-to-
end communications when using intermediaries such as proxies.

Figure 9 shows the last steps of the flow of operation for CoAP-EAP when (D)TLS is used to
protect the communication between the EAP peer and the EAP authenticator using the keying
material exported by the EAP authentication. The general flow is essentially the same as in the
case of OSCORE, except that DTLS negotiation is established in Step 7. Once DTLS negotiation has
finished successfully, the EAP peer is granted access to the domain. Step 7
by the EAP peer as an alternate success indication, which will end up with the MSK and the
DTLS_PSK derivation for the (D)TLS authentication based on the PSK.

 be interpreted

MUST

Figure 9: CoAP-EAP Flow of Operation with DTLS

[RFC8446]

, the provision of the PSK out of band also requires the provision of the

According to
KDF hash algorithm and the PSK identity. To simplify the design in CoAP-EAP, the KDF hash
algorithm can be included in the list of cipher suites exchanged in Steps 1 and 2 (Figure 8) if one
wants to use DTLS instead of OSCORE. For the same reason, the PSK identity is derived from RID-
C || RID-I as defined in Appendix A.1.

Analogous to how the cipher suite is negotiated for OSCORE (Section 6.1), the EAP authenticator
sends a list, in decreasing order of preference, with the identifiers of the hash algorithms
supported (Step 1). In the response, the EAP peer sends its choice.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 28

EAPpeerEAPauthenticator...2.01CreatedLocation-Path[/a/eap/(n)]Payload(EAP-X-Resp)6)MSK(D)TLS1.3ClientHelloMSK7)DTLS_PSKDTLShandshakeDTLS_PSKProtectedwith(D)TLSRFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

This list is included in the payload after the EAP message with a CBOR array that contains the
cipher suites. This CBOR array is enclosed as one of the elements of the CBOR Object used for
transporting information in CoAP-EAP (see Section 5). An example of how the fields are arranged
in the CoAP payload can be seen in Figure 7.

If there is no CBOR array specifying the cipher suites, the default cipher suites are applied. If the
EAP authenticator sends a restricted list of cipher suites that can be accepted, it
the default value 0, since it is mandatory to implement. The EAP peer will have at least that
option available.

 include

MUST

For DTLS, the negotiated cipher suite is used to determine the hash function to be used to derive
the "DTLS_PSK" from the MSK. The following hash algorithms are considered in cases where the
specification includes DTLS support in the future:

•

5) TLS_SHA256

•

6) TLS_SHA384

•

7) TLS_SHA512

The inclusion of these values, apart from indicating the hash algorithm, indicates that the EAP
authenticator intends to establish an OSCORE security association or a DTLS security association
after the authentication is completed. If both options appear in the cipher suite negotiation, the
OSCORE security association will be preferred over DTLS.

A.1.  Deriving DTLS_PSK and Identity

To enable DTLS after an EAP authentication, Identity and the PSK for DTLS are defined. Identity
in this case is generated by concatenating the exchanged Sender ID and the Recipient ID.

                CoAP-EAP PSK Identity = RID-C || RID-I

[RFC9147]
, referred to here as "DTLS_PSK", from the
It is also possible to derive a PSK for DTLS
MSK between both the EAP peer and EAP authenticator if required. The length of the DTLS_PSK
will depend on the cipher suite. To have keying material with sufficient length, a key of 32 bytes
is derived that can be truncated later if needed:

                DTLS_PSK = KDF(MSK, "CoAP-EAP DTLS_PSK", length)

where:

•

The MSK is exported by the EAP method.

•

"CoAP-EAP DTLS_PSK" is the ASCII code representation of the non-NULL-terminated string
(excluding the double quotes around it).

•

length is the size of the output key material.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Appendix B.  Using CoAP-EAP for Distributing Key Material for
IoT Networks

Similarly to the example in Appendix A.1, where a PSK for DTLS is derived, it is possible to
provide key material to different link layers after the CoAP-EAP authentication is complete.

For example, CoAP-EAP could be used to derive the PSK required to run the Constrained Join
Protocol (CoJP) for IPv6 over the TSCH mode of IEEE 802.15.4e (6TiSCH)
stands for "Time-Slotted Channel Hopping".)

[RFC9031]

. ("TSCH"

Another example would be when a shared Network Key is required by the devices that join a
network. An example of this Network Key can be found in the THREAD protocol
CoAP-EAP execution, a security association based on OSCORE protects any exchange between
the EAP peer and the EAP authenticator. This security association can be used for distributing
the Network Key securely and other required parameters. How the Network Key is distributed
after a successful CoAP-EAP authentication is outside the scope of this document.

[THREAD]

. After

How a particular link-layer technology uses the MSK to derive further key material for
protecting the link layer or uses OSCORE protection to distribute key material is outside the
scope of this document.

Appendix C.  Example Use Case Scenarios

In IoT networks, for an EAP peer to act as a trustworthy entity within a security domain, certain
key material needs to be shared between the EAP peer and the EAP authenticator.

Next, examples of different use case scenarios will be elaborated on as related to the usage of
CoAP-EAP.

Generally, four entities are involved:

•

Two EAP peers (A and B).

•

One EAP authenticator (C). The EAP authenticator manages a domain where EAP peers can
be deployed. In IoT networks, it can be considered a more powerful machine than the EAP
peers.

•

One AAA server. Optional. The AAA server is not constrained. Here, the EAP authenticator is
operating in pass-through mode.

Generally, any EAP peer wanting to join the domain managed by the EAP authenticator
perform a CoAP-EAP authentication with the EAP authenticator (C). This authentication
MAY
involve an external AAA server. This means that the EAP peers (A and B), once deployed, will
run CoAP-EAP once, as a bootstrapping phase, to establish a security association with C.
Moreover, any other entity that wants to join and establish communications with EAP peers
under C's domain must also do the same.

MUST

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

By using EAP, the flexibility of having different types of credentials can be achieved. For instance,
if a device that is not battery dependent and not very constrained is available, a heavier
authentication method could be used. With varied EAP peers and networks, authentication
methods that are more lightweight (e.g., EAP-NOOB
[RFC4764]
according to organization policies or device capabilities might need to be used.

, EAP-PSK
, etc.) and are able to adapt to different types of devices

, EAP-EDHOC

[EAP-EDHOC]

, EAP-AKA'

[RFC9140]

[RFC5448]

C.1.  Example 1: CoAP-EAP Using ACE

When using ACE, the process of client registration and provisioning of credentials to the client is
not specified. The process of client registration and provisioning can be achieved using CoAP-
EAP. Once the process of authentication with EAP is completed, the fresh key material is shared
between the EAP peer and the EAP authenticator. With ACE, the EAP authenticator and the
Authorization Server (AS) can be co-located.

Next, a general way to exemplify how client registration can be performed using CoAP-EAP is
presented, to allow two EAP peers (A and B) to communicate and interact after a successful
client registration.

EAP peer A wants to communicate with EAP peer B (e.g., to activate a light switch). The overall
process is divided into three phases.

•

In the first phase, EAP peer A does not yet belong to EAP authenticator C's domain. Then, it
communicates with C and authenticates with CoAP-EAP, which, optionally, communicates
with the AAA server to complete the authentication process. If the authentication is
successful, a fresh MSK is shared between C and EAP peer A. This key material allows EAP
peer A to establish a security association with C. Some authorization information may also
be provided in this step. If EAP is used in standalone mode, the AS itself, having information
about the devices, can be the entity providing said authorization information.

If authentication and authorization are correct, EAP peer A is enrolled in EAP authenticator
 recommends 8 hours, though
C's domain for some period of time. In particular,
the entity providing the authorization information can establish this lifetime. In the same
manner, B needs to perform the same process with CoAP-EAP to be part of EAP
authenticator C's domain.

[RFC5247]

•

In the second phase, when EAP peer A wants to talk to EAP peer B, it contacts EAP
authenticator C for authorization to access EAP peer B and obtain all the required
information to do that securely (e.g., keys, tokens, authorization information, etc.). This
phase does NOT require the usage of CoAP-EAP. The details of this phase are outside the
scope of this document; the ACE framework is used for this purpose. See

[RFC9200]
.

•

In the third phase, EAP peer A can access EAP peer B with the credentials and information
obtained from EAP authenticator C during the second phase. This access can be repeated
without contacting the EAP authenticator, as long as the credentials given to A are still valid.
The details of this phase are outside the scope of this document.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

It is worth noting that to join EAP authenticator C's domain, the first phase (authentication via
CoAP-EAP) is required. Once it is performed successfully, the communications are local to EAP
authenticator C's domain and there is no need to perform a new EAP authentication as long as
the key material is still valid. When the keys are about to expire, the EAP peer can engage in a re-
authentication to renew the key material, as explained in Section 3.3.

C.2.  Example 2: Multiple Domains with AAA Infrastructures

A device (A) of the domain acme.org uses a specific kind of credential and intends to join the
um.es domain. This user does not belong to this domain, for which it first performs a client
registration using CoAP-EAP. To do this, it interacts with the EAP authenticator's domain, which
in turn communicates with a AAA infrastructure (acting as a AAA client). Then, the local AAA
server communicates with the home AAA server to complete the authentication. This way, the
device can be considered as a trustworthy entity within EAP authenticator C's domain. In this
scenario, the AS, in the role of the EAP authenticator, receives the key material from the AAA
infrastructure.

C.3.  Example 3: Single Domain with a AAA Infrastructure

In this scenario, a university campus has several faculty buildings, where each building has its
criteria or policies in place to manage EAP peers under an AS. All buildings belong to the same
domain (e.g., um.es). All these buildings are managed with a AAA infrastructure. A new device
(A) with credentials from the domain (e.g., um.es) will be able to perform the device registration
with an EAP authenticator (C) of any building if they are managed by the same general domain.

C.4.  Example 4: Single Domain Without a AAA Infrastructure

In another case, without a AAA infrastructure, with an EAP authenticator that has co-located the
EAP server, and using EAP standalone mode, all the devices can be managed within the same
domain locally. Client registration of an EAP peer (A) with a Controller (C) can also be performed
in the same manner.

C.5.  Other Use Cases

C.5.1.  CoAP-EAP for Network Access Authentication

One of the first steps for an EAP peer is to perform the authentication to gain access to the
network. To do so, the device must first be authenticated and granted authorization to gain
access to the network. Additionally, security parameters such as credentials can be derived from
the authentication process, allowing the trustworthy operation of the EAP peer in a particular
network by joining the security domain. By using EAP, this can be achieved with flexibility and
scalability, because of the different EAP methods available and the ability to rely on AAA
infrastructures if needed to support multi-domain scenarios, which is a key feature when the
EAP peers deployed under the same security domain belong, for example, to different
organizations.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

The following two cases apply to the process of joining a network: 1) the node has an IPv6
address (e.g., link-local IPv6 or IPv6 global address) and 2) the node does not have an IPv6
address.

In networks where the device is in place but no IP support is available until the EAP peer is
authenticated, specific support for this EAP lower layer has to be defined to allow CoAP-EAP
messages to be exchanged between the EAP peer and the EAP authenticator. For example, in
IEEE 802.15.4 networks, a new Key Management Protocol (KMP) ID can be defined to add such
support in the case of IEEE 802.15.9
least a link-layer IPv6 address.

, where it can be assumed that the device has at

[IEEE802159]

When the EAP peer intends to be admitted into the network, it would search for an entity that
offers the CoAP-EAP service, be it directly via the EAP authenticator or through an intermediary
(e.g., proxy). See Section 3.1.

CoAP-EAP will run between the EAP peer and the EAP authenticator or through an intermediary
entity such as a proxy, as happens in a mesh network, where the EAP authenticator could be
placed one or more hops away from the EAP peer. In the case that a proxy participates in CoAP-
EAP, it will be because it is already a trustworthy entity within the domain and communicates
through a secure channel with the EAP authenticator, as illustrated by Figure 10.

If the EAP peer cannot connect to the EAP authenticator directly, the EAP peer can follow the
same process as that described in Section 3.6 to perform the authentication (i.e., can connect via
an intermediary entity (e.g., proxy) that is already part of the network (already shares key
material and communicates through a secure channel with the authenticator) and can aid in
running CoAP-EAP).

When CoAP-EAP is completed and the OSCORE security association is established with the EAP
authenticator, the EAP peer receives the local configuration parameters for the network (e.g., a
Network Key) and can configure a global IPv6 address. Moreover, there is no need for an
intermediary entity after a successful authentication.

For removal, if the EAP authenticator decides to remove a particular EAP peer from the network
or the peer itself intends to leave, either the EAP peer or the EAP authenticator can directly send
a DELETE command to explicitly express that the network access state is removed, and the
device will no longer belong to the network. Thus, any state related to the EAP peer is removed
in the EAP authenticator. Forced removal can be done by sending new specific key material to
the devices that still belong to the network, excluding the removed device, following a model
similar to CoJP for 6TiSCH
the scope of this document.

. The specifics on how this process is to be done are outside

[RFC9031]

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Figure 10: CoAP-EAP Through CoAP Proxy

Given that EAP is also used for network access authentication, this service can be adapted to
other technologies -- for instance, to provide network access control to very constrained
technologies (e.g., Long Range (LoRa) networks). The authors of
of a minimal version of CoAP-EAP for LPWANs, with interesting results. In this specific case,
[RFC8824]
compression as provided by Static Context Header Compression (SCHC) for CoAP
be leveraged.

[LO-CoAP-EAP]

 provide a study

 can

C.5.2.  CoAP-EAP for Service Authentication

It is not uncommon that the infrastructure where the device is deployed and the services of the
EAP peer are managed by different organizations. Therefore, in addition to the authentication
for network access control, the possibility of a secondary authentication to access different
services has to be considered. This process of authentication, for example, will provide the
necessary key material to establish a secure channel and interact with the entity in charge of
granting access to different services.

In 5G, for example, consider primary and secondary authentication using EAP

[TS133.501]
.

Acknowledgments

We would like to thank the reviewers of this work:
Deb Cooley Eliot Lear Alan DeKok Carsten Bormann Mohit Sethi Benjamin Kaduk Christian
Amsüss John Preuß Mattsson Göran Selander Alexandre Petrescu Pedro Moreno-Sanchez
,
Eduardo Ingles-Sanchez
.

Paul Wouters Heikki Vatiainen Josh Howlett

,
,

, and

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

We would also like to thank
Jimenez-Sanchez
Schimmelpfennig
Daniel Menendez Gonzalez

Gabriel Lopez-Millan

 for the first proof-of-concept implementation of this idea,
 for the implementation of the Erbium-based IoT device implementation, and

 for the first review of this document,
Julian Niklas

Ivan

 for the Python implementation.

Thanks also to
regarding the potential optimizations of CoAP-EAP.

Alexander Pelov

Laurent Toutain

 and

 for their valuable comments, especially

This work was supported in part by Grant PID2020-112675RB-C44 funded by MCIN/AEI/
10.13039/5011000011033 (ONOFRE-3-UMU) and in part by the H2020 EU project IoTCrawler
under contract 779852.

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 34

EAPCoAPEAPpeerproxyauthenticatorCoAPCoAPOSCORE/DTLSsecurityassociationRFC 9820

CoAP-EAP

September 2025

Authors' Addresses

Rafa Marin-Lopez
University of Murcia
Campus de Espinardo S/N, Faculty of Computer Science
30100 Murcia
Spain
Email:

rafa@um.es

Dan Garcia-Carrillo
University of Oviedo
Calle Luis Ortiz Berrocal S/N, Edificio Polivalente
33203 Gijon Asturias
Spain
Email:

garciadan@uniovi.es

Marin-Lopez & Garcia-Carrillo

Standards Track

Page 35

