Stream:
RFC:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Author:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9461
Standards Track
November 2023
2070-1721
B. Schwartz
Meta Platforms, Inc.

RFC 9461
Service Binding Mapping for DNS Servers

Abstract

The SVCB DNS resource record type expresses a bound collection of endpoint metadata, for use
when establishing a connection to a named service. DNS itself can be such a service, when the
server is identified by a domain name. This document provides the SVCB mapping for named
DNS servers, allowing them to indicate support for encrypted transport protocols.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9461
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9461

SVCB for DNS

November 2023

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

3.  Identities and Names

3.1.  Special Case: Non-default Ports

4.  Applicable Existing SvcParamKeys

4.1.  "alpn"

4.2.  "port"

4.3.  Other Applicable SvcParamKeys

5.  New SvcParamKey: "dohpath"

6.  Limitations

7.  Examples

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Adversary on the Query Path

8.1.1.  Downgrade Attacks

8.1.2.  Redirection Attacks

8.2.  Adversary on the Transport Path

9.  IANA Considerations

10. References

10.1.  Normative References

10.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  Mapping Summary

Acknowledgments

Author's Address

3

3

3

4

4

4

4

5

5

6

6

7

7

7

7

8

8

8

8

9

9

10

10

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9461

SVCB for DNS

November 2023

1.  Introduction

[SVCB]

 provides clients with information about how to reach
The SVCB resource record (RR) type
alternative endpoints for a service. These endpoints may offer improved performance or privacy
properties. The service is identified by a "scheme" indicating the service type, a hostname, and,
optionally, other information such as a port number. A DNS server is often identified only by its
IP address (e.g., in DHCP), but in some contexts it can also be identified by a hostname (e.g., "NS"
records, manual resolver configuration) and sometimes also a non-default port number.

), indicating how a client for that service can interpret the contents of the SVCB

The use of the SVCB RR type requires a mapping document for each service type (
[SVCB]
SvcParams. This document provides the mapping for the "dns" service type, allowing DNS
servers to offer alternative endpoints and transports, including encrypted transports like DNS
over TLS (DoT)
[RFC9250]
.

, and DNS over QUIC (DoQ)

, DNS over HTTPS (DoH)

[RFC8484]

[RFC7858]

Section 2.4.3 of

The SVCB mapping described in this document is intended as a general-purpose baseline.
Subsequent specifications will adapt this mechanism as needed to support specific configurations
(e.g., for communication between stub resolvers and recursive resolvers).

2.  Conventions and Definitions

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

3.  Identities and Names

SVCB record names (i.e., QNAMEs) for DNS services are formed using Port Prefix Naming (
2.3 of [SVCB]
dns1.example.com would be queried at _dns.dns1.example.com.

), with a scheme of "dns". For example, SVCB records for a DNS service identified as

Section

In some use cases, the name used for retrieving these DNS records is different from the server
identity used to authenticate the secure transport. To distinguish between these, this document
uses the following terms:

Binding authority:

The service name (

Section 1.3 of [SVCB]

) and optional port number used as

input to Port Prefix Naming.

Authentication name:

 be a DNS
hostname or a literal IP address. Unless otherwise specified, this is the service name from the
binding authority.

The name used for secure transport authentication. This

MUST

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9461

SVCB for DNS

November 2023

3.1.  Special Case: Non-default Ports

Normally, a DNS service is identified by an IP address or a domain name. When connecting to the
service using unencrypted DNS over UDP or TCP, clients use the default port number for DNS
(53). However, in rare cases, a DNS service might be identified by both a name and a port
number. For example, the DNS URI scheme
of a host and a port number (with a default of 53). DNS URIs normally omit the authority or
specify an IP address, but a hostname and non-default port number are allowed.

 optionally includes an authority, comprised

[DNSURI]

When the binding authority specifies a non-default port number, Port Prefix Naming places the
port number in an additional prefix on the name. For example, if the binding authority is
"dns1.example.com:9953", the client would query for SVCB records at
_9953._dns.dns1.example.com. If two DNS services operating on different port numbers
provide different behaviors, this arrangement allows them to preserve the distinction when
specifying alternative endpoints.

4.  Applicable Existing SvcParamKeys

4.1.  "alpn"

This key indicates the set of supported protocols (
protocol, so the "no-default-alpn" key does not apply. If the "alpn" SvcParamKey is absent, the
client
some other recognized SvcParam indicates a supported protocol.

 treat the SVCB record as "incompatible" (as defined in

). There is no default

Section 7.1 of [SVCB]

Section 8 of [SVCB]

) unless

MUST

If the protocol set contains any HTTP versions (e.g., "h2", "h3"), then the record indicates support
for DoH and the "dohpath" key
HTTPS record are also permissible and apply to the resulting HTTP connection.

 be present (Section 5). All keys specified for use with the

MUST

If the protocol set contains protocols with different default ports and no "port" key is specified,
then protocols are contacted separately on their default ports. Note that in this configuration,
Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) negotiation does not defend against cross-
protocol downgrade attacks.

4.2.  "port"

This key is used to indicate the target port for connection (
client
for DoH).

SHALL

 use the default port number for each transport protocol (853 for DoT and DoQ, 443

Section 7.2 of [SVCB]

). If omitted, the

This key is automatically mandatory for this binding. This means that a client that does not
Section 8 of
respect the "port" key
[SVCB]

 ignore any SVCB record that contains this key. (See

 for the definition of "automatically mandatory".)

MUST

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9461

SVCB for DNS

November 2023

Support for the "port" key can be unsafe if the client has implicit elevated access to some
network service (e.g., a local service that is inaccessible to remote parties) and that service uses a
TCP-based protocol other than TLS. A hostile DNS server might be able to manipulate this service
by causing the client to send a specially crafted TLS Server Name Indication (SNI) or session
ticket that can be misparsed as a command or exploit. To avoid such attacks, clients
support the "port" key unless one of the following conditions applies:

SHOULD NOT

•

The client is being used with a DNS server that it trusts not to attempt this attack.

•

The client is being used in a context where implicit elevated access cannot apply.

•

The client restricts the set of allowed TCP port values to exclude any ports where a confusion
attack is likely to be possible (e.g., the "bad ports" list from Section
[FETCH]

2.9 ("Port blocking")

 of

).

4.3.  Other Applicable SvcParamKeys

These SvcParamKeys from

[SVCB]

 apply to the "dns" scheme without modification:

•

mandatory

•

ipv4hint

•

ipv6hint

Future SvcParamKeys might also be applicable.

5.  New SvcParamKey: "dohpath"

MUST

 be a URI Template in relative form (

"dohpath" is a single-valued SvcParamKey whose value (in both presentation format and wire
format)
[RFC3629]
URI Template
URI Template expansion (
[RFC9113], Section 8.3.1
).
(

MUST
 be chosen such that the result after DoH
) is always a valid and functional ":path" value

. If the "alpn" SvcParam indicates support for HTTP, "dohpath"

 contain a "dns" variable, and

Section 6 of [RFC8484]

[RFC6570], Section 1.1

) encoded in UTF-8

 be present. The

MUST

MUST

When using this SVCB record, the client
 send any DoH requests to the HTTP origin
identified by the "https" scheme, the authentication name, and the port from the "port"
SvcParam (if present). HTTP requests
MUST
Template expansion of the "dohpath" value.

 be directed to the resource resulting from DoH URI

MUST

SHOULD NOT

 query for any HTTPS RRs when using "dohpath". Instead, the SvcParams and

Clients
address records associated with this SVCB record
with the same semantics as an HTTPS RR. However, for consistency, service operators
publish an equivalent HTTPS RR, especially if clients might learn about this DoH service through
a different channel.

 be used for the HTTPS connection,

SHOULD

SHOULD

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9461

SVCB for DNS

November 2023

6.  Limitations

This document is concerned exclusively with the DNS transport and does not affect or inform the
construction or interpretation of DNS messages. For example, nothing in this document indicates
whether the service is intended for use as a recursive or authoritative DNS server. Clients need to
know the intended use of services based on their context.

Not all features of this specification will be applicable or effective in all contexts:

•

If the authentication name is received over an insecure channel (e.g., a glue NS record), this
specification cannot prevent the client from connecting to an attacker.

•

Different transports might prove to be popular for different purposes (e.g., querying a
recursive resolver vs. an authoritative server). Implementors are not obligated to implement
all the defined transports, although doing so is beneficial for compatibility.

•

Where resolution speed is a high priority, the SVCB TargetName
convention described in
2.4.2 of [SVCB]

Section 10.2 of [SVCB]

NOT RECOMMENDED

) is

.

, and the use of AliasMode records (

Section

SHOULD

 follow the

7.  Examples

•

A resolver known as simple.example that supports DNS over TLS on port 853 (implicitly, as
this is its default port):

_dns.simple.example. 7200 IN SVCB 1 simple.example. alpn=dot

•

A DoH-only resolver at https://doh.example/dns-query{?dns}. (DNS over TLS is not
supported.):

_dns.doh.example. 7200 IN SVCB 1 doh.example. (
      alpn=h2 dohpath=/dns-query{?dns} )

•

A resolver known as resolver.example that supports:

◦
DoT on resolver.example ports 853 (implicit in record 1) and 8530 (explicit in record 2),
with "resolver.example" as the Authentication Domain Name,
◦
DoQ on resolver.example port 853 (record 1),
DoH at https://resolver.example/q{?dns} (record 1), and
◦
◦
an experimental protocol on fooexp.resolver.example:5353 (record 3):

_dns.resolver.example.  7200 IN \
  SVCB 1 resolver.example. alpn=dot,doq,h2,h3 dohpath=/q{?dns}
  SVCB 2 resolver.example. alpn=dot port=8530
  SVCB 3 fooexp.resolver.example. \
    port=5353 alpn=foo foo-info=...

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9461

SVCB for DNS

November 2023

•

A name server named ns.example. whose service configuration is published on a different
domain:

_dns.ns.example. 7200 IN SVCB 0 _dns.ns.nic.example.

8.  Security Considerations

8.1.  Adversary on the Query Path

This section considers an adversary who can add or remove responses to the SVCB query.

 authenticate the server to its authentication
During secure transport establishment, clients
name, which is not influenced by the SVCB record contents. Accordingly, this document does not
mandate the use of DNSSEC. This document also does not specify how clients authenticate the
name (e.g., selection of roots of trust), as this procedure might vary according to the context.

MUST

8.1.1.  Downgrade Attacks

This attacker cannot impersonate the secure endpoint, but it can forge a response indicating that
the requested SVCB records do not exist. For a SVCB-reliant client (
results in a denial of service. However, SVCB-optional clients will generally fall back to insecure
DNS in this case, exposing all DNS traffic to attacks.

[SVCB], Section 3

), this only

8.1.2.  Redirection Attacks

SVCB-reliant clients always enforce the Authentication Domain Name, but they are still subject to
attacks using the transport, port number, and "dohpath" value, which are controlled by this
adversary. By changing these values in the SVCB answers, the adversary can direct DNS queries
for $HOSTNAME to any port on $HOSTNAME and any path on "https://$HOSTNAME". If the DNS
client uses shared TLS or HTTP state, the client could be correctly authenticated (e.g., using a TLS
client certificate or HTTP cookie).

This behavior creates a number of possible attacks for certain server configurations. For
example, if https://$HOSTNAME/upload accepts any POST request as a public file upload, the
adversary could forge a SVCB record containing dohpath=/upload{?dns}. This would cause the
client to upload and publish every query, resulting in unexpected storage costs for the server and
privacy loss for the client. Similarly, if two DoH endpoints are available on the same origin and
the service has designated one of them for use with this specification, this adversary can cause
clients to use the other endpoint instead.

To mitigate redirection attacks, a client of this SVCB mapping
itself when performing DNS queries, except to servers that it specifically knows are not
vulnerable to such attacks. If an endpoint sends an invalid response to a DNS query, the client
 log this error. Multiple DNS services
SHOULD NOT

 send more queries to that endpoint and

 identify or authenticate

MUST NOT

MAY

MUST NOT
an attacker to choose which one is used.

 share a hostname identifier (Section 3) unless they are so similar that it is safe to allow

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9461

SVCB for DNS

November 2023

8.2.  Adversary on the Transport Path

This section considers an adversary who can modify network traffic between the client and the
alternative service (identified by the TargetName).

For a SVCB-reliant client, this adversary can only cause a denial of service. However, because
DNS is unencrypted by default, this adversary can execute a downgrade attack against SVCB-
 switch
optional clients. Accordingly, when the use of this specification is optional, clients
to SVCB-reliant behavior if SVCB resolution succeeds. Specifications making use of this mapping
MAY

 adjust this fallback behavior to suit their requirements.

SHOULD

9.  IANA Considerations

[SVCB]

Per
registry.

, IANA has added the following entry to the "Service Parameter Keys (SvcParamKeys)"

Number Name

Meaning

7

dohpath

DNS-over-HTTPS
path template

Table 1

Format
Reference

Change
Controller

Reference

RFC 9461

IETF

RFC 9461

[Attrleaf]

Per
DNS Node Names" registry:

, IANA has added the following entry to the DNS "Underscored and Globally Scoped

RR Type

_NODE NAME

Reference

SVCB

_dns

RFC 9461

Table 2

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

[RFC2119]

[RFC3629]

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Yergeau, F. "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646" STD 63 RFC 3629
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC3629
rfc3629>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, November 2003,

,

,

.

,

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9461

SVCB for DNS

November 2023

[RFC6570]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8484]

[RFC9113]

[SVCB]

Gregorio, J. Fielding, R. Hadley, M. Nottingham, M.
Template" RFC 6570 DOI 10.17487/RFC6570
,
editor.org/info/rfc6570>

, and
, March 2012,

,
,

,

,

.

D. Orchard "URI
<https://www.rfc-

,

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Hoffman, P.
10.17487/RFC8484

 and

P. McManus "DNS Queries over HTTPS (DoH)" RFC 8484 DOI

,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8484>

, October 2018,

,

,

.

Thomson, M., Ed.
RFC9113

, June 2022,

 and

C. Benfield, Ed. "HTTP/2" RFC 9113 DOI 10.17487/
,

,

,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9113>

.

Schwartz, B. Bishop, M.
,
,
Specification via the DNS (SVCB and HTTPS Resource Records)" RFC 9460 DOI
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9460>
10.17487/RFC9460
.

E. Nygren "Service Binding and Parameter

, November 2023,

, and

,

,

10.2.  Informative References

[Attrleaf]

[DNSURI]

[FETCH]

[RFC7858]

[RFC9250]

,

Crocker, D. "Scoped Interpretation of DNS Resource Records through
"Underscored" Naming of Attribute Leaves" BCP 222 RFC 8552 DOI 10.17487/
RFC8552

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8552>
.

, March 2019,

,

Josefsson, S. "Domain Name System Uniform Resource Identifiers" RFC 4501
DOI 10.17487/RFC4501
.

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4501>

, May 2006,

,

,

,

WHATWG "Fetch Living Standard"
fetch.spec.whatwg.org/>

,

.

, October 2023,

<https://

,

,

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.
"Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

P. Hoffman

, and

,

,

,

.

Huitema, C. Dickinson, S.
,
Connections" RFC 9250 DOI 10.17487/RFC9250
,
,
editor.org/info/rfc9250>
.

, and

,

A. Mankin "DNS over Dedicated QUIC

, May 2022,

<https://www.rfc-

Appendix A.  Mapping Summary

This table serves as a non-normative summary of the DNS mapping for SVCB.

Mapped scheme

RR type

"dns"

SVCB (64)

Name prefix

_dns for port 53, else _$PORT._dns

Required keys

alpn or equivalent

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9461

SVCB for DNS

November 2023

Automatically mandatory keys

port

Special behaviors

Supports all HTTPS RR SvcParamKeys

Overrides the HTTPS RR for DoH

Default port is per-transport

Cleartext fallback is discouraged

Table 3

Acknowledgments

Thanks to the many reviewers and contributors, including
Paul Hoffman Daniel Migault Matt Nordhoff Eric Rescorla Andreas Schulze
,

Andrew Campling Peter van Dijk
,

,
Éric Vyncke
.

,
, and

,

,

Author's Address

Benjamin Schwartz
Meta Platforms, Inc.
Email:

 ietf@bemasc.net

Schwartz

Standards Track

Page 10

