Stream:
RFC:
Obsoletes:
Category:
Published:
ISSN:
Authors:

Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
9399
3709, 6170
Standards Track
May 2023
2070-1721
S. Santesson
IDsec Solutions

R. Housley
Vigil Security

T. Freeman
Amazon Web Services

L. Rosenthol
Adobe

RFC 9399
Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure: Logotypes
in X.509 Certificates

Abstract

This document specifies a certificate extension for including logotypes in public key certificates
and attribute certificates. This document obsoletes RFCs 3709 and 6170.

Status of This Memo

This is an Internet Standards Track document.

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). It represents the
consensus of the IETF community. It has received public review and has been approved for
publication by the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG). Further information on Internet
Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

Information about the current status of this document, any errata, and how to provide feedback
on it may be obtained at

https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9399
.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document authors. All rights
reserved.

https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF
Documents (
) in effect on the date of publication of this
document. Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions
with respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 1

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

Table of Contents

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Certificate-Based Identification

1.2.  Selection of Certificates

1.3.  Combination of Verification Techniques

1.4.  Requirements Language

2.  Different Types of Logotypes in Certificates

3.  Logotype Data

4.  Logotype Certificate Extension

4.1.  Extension Format

4.2.  Conventions for LogotypeImageInfo

4.3.  Embedded Images

4.4.  Other Logotypes

4.4.1.  Loyalty Logotype

4.4.2.  Certificate Background Logotype

4.4.3.  Certificate Image Logotype

5.  Type of Certificates

6.  Use in Clients

7.  Image Formats

8.  Audio Formats

9.  Security Considerations

10. Privacy Considerations

11. IANA Considerations

12. References

12.1.  Normative References

12.2.  Informative References

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Modules

A.1.  ASN.1 Modules with 1988 Syntax

A.2.  ASN.1 Module with 2002 Syntax

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 2

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

Appendix B.  Examples

B.1.  Example from RFC 3709

B.2.  Issuer Organization Logotype Example

B.3.  Embedded Image Example

B.4.  Embedded Certificate Image Example

B.5.  Full Certificate Example

Appendix C.  Changes since RFCs 3709 and 6170

Acknowledgments

Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

This specification supplements
revocation lists (CRLs) for use in the Internet, and it supplements
attribute certificates for use in the Internet.

[RFC5280]

, which profiles public key certificates and certificate

[RFC5755]

, which profiles

This document obsoletes
changes since the publication of

[RFC3709]

 and
[RFC3709]

[RFC6170]
 and

[RFC6170]
.

. Appendix C provides a summary of the

The basic function of a certificate is to bind a public key to the identity of an entity (the subject).
From a strictly technical viewpoint, this goal could be achieved by signing the identity of the
subject together with its public key. However, the art of Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) has
developed certificates far beyond this functionality in order to meet the needs of modern global
networks and heterogeneous information and operational technology structures.

Certificate users must be able to determine certificate policies, appropriate key usage, assurance
level, and name form constraints. Before a relying party can make an informed decision whether
a particular certificate is trustworthy and relevant for its intended usage, a certificate may be
examined from several different perspectives.

Systematic processing is necessary to determine whether a particular certificate meets the
predefined prerequisites for an intended usage. Much of the information contained in
certificates is appropriate and effective for machine processing; however, this information is not
suitable for a corresponding human trust and recognition process.

Humans prefer to structure information into categories and symbols. Most humans associate
complex structures of reality with easily recognizable logotypes and marks. Humans tend to trust
things that they recognize from previous experiences. Humans may examine information to

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 3

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

confirm their initial reaction. Very few consumers actually read all terms and conditions they
agree to in accepting a service; instead, they commonly act on trust derived from previous
experience and recognition.

A big part of this process is branding. Service providers and product vendors invest a lot of
money and resources into creating a strong relation between positive user experiences and
easily recognizable trademarks, servicemarks, and logotypes.

Branding is also pervasive in identification instruments, including identification cards, passports,
driver's licenses, credit cards, gasoline cards, and loyalty cards. Identification instruments are
intended to identify the holder as a particular person or as a member of the community. The
community may represent the subscribers of a service or any other group. Identification
instruments, in physical form, commonly use logotypes and symbols, solely to enhance human
recognition and trust in the identification instrument itself. They may also include a registered
trademark to allow legal recourse for unauthorized duplication.

Since certificates play an equivalent role in electronic exchanges, we examine the inclusion of
logotypes in certificates. We consider certificate-based identification and certificate selection.

1.1.  Certificate-Based Identification

The need for human recognition depends on the manner in which certificates are used and
whether certificates need to be visible to human users. If certificates are to be used in open
environments and in applications that bring the user in conscious contact with the result of a
certificate-based identification process, then human recognition is highly relevant and may be a
necessity.

Examples of such applications include:

•

Web server identification where a user identifies the owner of the website.

•

Peer email exchange in business-to-business (B2B), business-to-consumer (B2C), and private
communications.

•

Exchange of medical records and system for medical prescriptions.

•

Unstructured e-business applications (i.e., non-EDI applications).

•

Wireless client authenticating to a service provider.

Most applications provide the human user with an opportunity to view the results of a successful
certificate-based identification process. When the user takes the steps necessary to view these
results, the user is presented with a view of a certificate. This solution has two major problems.
First, the function to view a certificate is often rather hard to find for a non-technical user.
Second, the presentation of the certificate is too technical and is not user friendly. It contains no
graphic symbols or logotypes to enhance human recognition.

Many investigations have shown that users of today's applications do not take the steps
necessary to view certificates. This could be due to poor user interfaces. Further, many
applications are structured to hide certificates from users. The application designers do not want
to expose certificates to users at all.

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 4

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

1.2.  Selection of Certificates

One situation where software applications must expose human users to certificates is when the
user must select a single certificate from a portfolio of certificates. In some cases, the software
application can use information within the certificates to filter the list for suitability; however,
the user must be queried if more than one certificate is suitable. The human user must select one
of them.

This situation is comparable to a person selecting a suitable plastic card from their wallet. In this
situation, substantial assistance is provided by card color, location, and branding.

In order to provide similar support for certificate selection, the users need tools to easily
recognize and distinguish certificates. Introduction of logotypes into certificates provides the
necessary graphic.

1.3.  Combination of Verification Techniques

The use of logotypes will, in many cases, affect the user's decision to trust and use a certificate. It
is therefore important that there be a distinct and clear architectural and functional distinction
between the processes and objectives of the automated certificate verification and human
recognition.

Since logotypes are only aimed for human interpretation and contain data that is inappropriate
for computer-based verification schemes, the logotype certificate extension
active component in automated certification path validation, as specified in
[RFC5280]
.

MUST NOT
Section 6 of

 be an

Automated certification path verification determines whether the end entity certificate can be
verified according to defined policy. The algorithm for this verification is specified in

[RFC5280]
.

The automated processing provides assurance that the certificate is valid. It does not indicate
whether the subject is entitled to any particular information or whether the subject ought to be
trusted to perform a particular service. These are authorization decisions. Automatic processing
will make some authorization decisions, but others, depending on the application context,
involve the human user.

In some situations, where automated procedures have failed to establish the suitability of the
certificate to the task, the human user is the final arbitrator of the post certificate verification
authorization decisions. In the end, the human will decide whether or not to accept an
executable email attachment, to release personal information, or to follow the instructions
displayed by a web browser. This decision will often be based on recognition and previous
experience.

The distinction between systematic processing and human processing is rather straightforward.
They can be complementary. While the systematic process is focused on certification path
construction and verification, the human acceptance process is focused on recognition and
related previous experience.

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 5

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

There are some situations where systematic processing and human processing interfere with
each other. These issues are discussed in the Section 9.

1.4.  Requirements Language

RECOMMENDED NOT RECOMMENDED MAY

", "

", "

MUST MUST NOT

The key words "
NOT
be interpreted as described in BCP 14
all capitals, as shown here.

", "

", "

", "

REQUIRED SHALL
", "
[RFC2119] [RFC8174]

", "
", and "

SHALL NOT

OPTIONAL

", "
", "
SHOULD SHOULD
" in this document are to

 when, and only when, they appear in

2.  Different Types of Logotypes in Certificates

This specification defines the inclusion of three standard logotype types:

•

community logotype

•

issuer organization logotype

•

subject organization logotype

The community logotype is the general mark for a community. It identifies a service concept for
entity identification and certificate issuance. Many issuers may use a community logotype to co-
brand with a global community in order to gain global recognition of its local service provision.
This type of community branding is very common in the credit card business, where local
independent card issuers include a globally recognized brand (such as Visa and Mastercard).
Certificate issuers may include more than one community logotype to indicate participation in
more than one global community.

The issuer organization logotype is a logotype representing the organization identified as part of
the issuer name in the certificate.

The subject organization logotype is a logotype representing the organization identified in the
subject name in the certificate.

In addition to the standard logotype types, this specification accommodates inclusion of other
logotype types where each class of logotype is defined by an object identifier. The object
identifier can be either locally defined or an identifier defined in Section 4.4 of this document.

3.  Logotype Data

This specification defines two types of logotype data: image data and audio data.
 support image data; however, support for audio data is
Implementations

MUST

.
OPTIONAL

Image and audio data for logotypes can be provided by reference by including a URI that
identifies the location to the logotype data and a one-way hash of the referenced data in the
certificate. The privacy-related properties for remote logotype data depend on four parties: the
certificate relying parties that use the information in the certificate extension to fetch the

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 6

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

logotype data, the certificate issuers that populate the certificate extension, certificate
subscribers that request certificates that include the certificate extension, and server operators
that provide the logotype data.

Alternatively, embedding the logotype data in the certificate with direct addressing (as defined in
Section 4.3) provides improved privacy properties and depends upon fewer parties. However,
this approach can significantly increase the size of the certificate.

Several image objects, representing the same visual content in different formats, sizes, and color
palates, may represent each logotype image. At least one of the image objects representing a
logotype
between 45 pixels and 150 pixels.

 contain an image with a width between 60 pixels and 200 pixels and a height

SHOULD

Several instances of audio data may further represent the same audio sequence in different
formats, resolutions, and languages. At least one of the audio objects representing a logotype
SHOULD

 provide text-based audio data suitable for processing by text-to-speech software.

A typical use of text-based audio data is inclusion in web applications where the audio text is
placed as the "alt" attribute value of an HTML image (img) element, and the language value
obtained from LogotypeAudioInfo is included as the "lang" attribute of that image.

MUST

MUST

 contain variants of roughly the same visual content.

 contain variants of the same audio information. A spoken message in

If a logotype of a certain type (as defined in Section 2) is represented by more than one image
object, then each image object
Likewise, if a logotype of a certain type is represented by more than one audio object, then the
audio objects
different languages is considered a variation of the same audio information. When more than
one image object or more than one audio object for the same logotype type is included in the
certificate, the certificate issuer is responsible for ensuring that the objects contain roughly the
same content. Compliant applications
MUST NOT
same time.

 play more than one of the audio objects for any logotype type (see Section 2) at the

 display more than one of the image objects and

MUST NOT

MAY

 simultaneously display multiple logotypes of different logotype types. For example,

A client
it may display one subject organization logotype while also displaying a community logotype, but
it

 display multiple image variants of the same community logotype.

MUST NOT

Each logotype present in a certificate

MUST

 be represented by at least one image data object.

Client applications
data.

SHOULD

 enhance processing and off-line functionality by caching logotype

4.  Logotype Certificate Extension

This section specifies the syntax and semantics of the logotype certificate extension.

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 7

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

4.1.  Extension Format

The logotype certificate extension
attribute certificates
following object identifier:

[RFC5755]

MAY

 be included in public key certificates

. The logotype certificate extension

MUST

[RFC5280]
 be identified by the

 or

   id-pe-logotype  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=
      { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
        security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-pe(1) 12 }

This extension

MUST NOT

 be marked critical.

 support both direct and indirect addressing. Certificate issuing applications

Logotype data may be referenced through either direct or indirect addressing. Client applications
SHOULD
support direct addressing, and certificate issuing applications
addressing.

 support indirect

SHOULD

MUST

The direct addressing includes information about each logotype in the certificate, and URIs point
 be included for locations for obtaining the
to the image and audio data object. Multiple URIs
same logotype object. Multiple hash values
 be included, each computed with a different one-
way hash function. Direct addressing supports cases where just one or a few alternative images
and audio objects are referenced.

MAY

MAY

The indirect addressing includes one or more references to an external hashed data structure
that contains information on the type, content, and location of each image and audio object.
Indirect addressing supports cases where each logotype is represented by many alternative
audio or image objects.

Both direct and indirect addressing accommodate alternative URIs to obtain exactly the same
logotype data. This opportunity for replication is intended to improve availability. Therefore, if a
client is unable to fetch the item from one URI, the client
sequence. All direct addressing URIs
(http://...), or the DATA scheme (data://...)
be used with the indirect addressing. Clients
LogotypeData with HTTP
protocols. Client applications
addressing with embedded logotype data within the extension.

. However, the "data" URI scheme
 support retrieval of the referenced

, or subsequent versions of these
[RFC2397]

 use the HTTPS scheme (https://...), the HTTP scheme

 also support the "data" URI scheme

[RFC3986]
MUST

 try another URI in the

, HTTP with TLS

[RFC8446]

[RFC9110]

 for direct

MUST NOT

SHOULD

SHOULD

SHOULD

Note that the HTTPS scheme (https://...) requires the validation of other certificates to establish a
secure connection. For this reason, the HTTP scheme (http://...) may be easier for a client to
handle. Also, the hash of the logotype data provides data integrity.

The logotype certificate extension

MUST

 have the following syntax:

LogotypeExtn ::= SEQUENCE {
   communityLogos  [0] EXPLICIT SEQUENCE OF LogotypeInfo OPTIONAL,

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 8

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

   issuerLogo      [1] EXPLICIT LogotypeInfo OPTIONAL,
   subjectLogo     [2] EXPLICIT LogotypeInfo OPTIONAL,
   otherLogos      [3] EXPLICIT SEQUENCE OF OtherLogotypeInfo
                          OPTIONAL }

LogotypeInfo ::= CHOICE {
   direct          [0] LogotypeData,
   indirect        [1] LogotypeReference }

LogotypeData ::= SEQUENCE {
   image           SEQUENCE OF LogotypeImage OPTIONAL,
   audio           [1] SEQUENCE OF LogotypeAudio OPTIONAL }

LogotypeImage ::= SEQUENCE {
   imageDetails    LogotypeDetails,
   imageInfo       LogotypeImageInfo OPTIONAL }

LogotypeAudio ::= SEQUENCE {
   audioDetails    LogotypeDetails,
   audioInfo       LogotypeAudioInfo OPTIONAL }

LogotypeDetails ::= SEQUENCE {
   mediaType       IA5String, -- Media type name and optional
                              -- parameters
   logotypeHash    SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF HashAlgAndValue,
   logotypeURI     SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF IA5String }

LogotypeImageInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
   type            [0] LogotypeImageType DEFAULT color,
   fileSize        INTEGER,  -- In octets, 0=unspecified
   xSize           INTEGER,  -- Horizontal size in pixels
   ySize           INTEGER,  -- Vertical size in pixels
   resolution      LogotypeImageResolution OPTIONAL,
   language        [4] IA5String OPTIONAL }  -- RFC 5646 Language Tag

LogotypeImageType ::= INTEGER { grayScale(0), color(1) }

LogotypeImageResolution ::= CHOICE {
   numBits         [1] INTEGER,   -- Resolution in bits per pixel
   tableSize       [2] INTEGER }  -- Number of colors or grey tones

LogotypeAudioInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
   fileSize        INTEGER,  -- In octets, 0=unspecified
   playTime        INTEGER,  -- In milliseconds, 0=unspecified
   channels        INTEGER,  -- 0=unspecified,
                             -- 1=mono, 2=stereo, 4=quad
   sampleRate      [3] INTEGER OPTIONAL,  -- Samples per second
   language        [4] IA5String OPTIONAL }  -- RFC 5646 Language Tag

OtherLogotypeInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
   logotypeType    OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
   info            LogotypeInfo }

LogotypeReference ::= SEQUENCE {
   refStructHash   SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF HashAlgAndValue,
   refStructURI    SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF IA5String }
                    -- Places to get the same LogotypeData
                    -- image or audio object

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 9

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

HashAlgAndValue ::= SEQUENCE {
   hashAlg         AlgorithmIdentifier,
   hashValue       OCTET STRING }

When using indirect addressing, the URI (refStructURI) pointing to the external data structure
MUST

 point to a resource that contains the DER-encoded data with the syntax LogotypeData.

At least one of the optional elements in the LogotypeExtn structure

MUST

 be present.

When using direct addressing, at least one of the optional elements in the LogotypeData
structure

 be present.

MUST

The LogotypeReference and LogotypeDetails structures explicitly identify one or more one-way
hash functions employed to authenticate referenced image or audio objects. Certification
Authorities (CAs)
object. CAs
MUST
to compute one hash value, and CAs
way hash value using one of the identified functions, and clients
if the computed hash value does not match the hash value in the certificate extension.

 include a hash value for each referenced object, calculated on the whole
MUST
 use the one-way hash function that is associated with the certificate signature

 include other hash values. Clients

 discard the logotype data

 compute a one-

MUST

MUST

MAY

A media type is used to specify the format of the image or audio object containing the logotype
data. The mediaType field
[RFC5234]
. Media types
parameters. To keep the mediaType field as small as possible, optional whitespace
be included.

 contain a string that is constructed according to the ABNF

 rule for media-type provided in

Section 8.3.1 of [RFC9110]

 include
SHOULD NOT

MUST

MAY

Image format requirements are specified in Section 7, and audio format requirements are
specified in Section 8.

When language is specified, the language tag

MUST

 use the syntax in

[RFC5646]
.

The following logotype types are defined in this specification:

•

MUST

community logotype: If communityLogos is present, the logotypes
more communities with which the certificate issuer is affiliated. The communityLogos
be present in an end entity certificate, a CA certificate, or an attribute certificate. The
communityLogos contains a sequence of community logotypes, each representing a different
community. If more than one community logotype is present, they
of preferred appearance. Some clients
community logos; therefore, the placement within the sequence aids the client selection. The
most preferred logotype
MUST

 be first in the sequence, and the least preferred logotype

MUST
 be last in the sequence.

 choose to display a subset of the present

 be placed in order

 represent one or

MUST

MAY

MAY

•

issuer organization logotype: If issuerLogo is present, the logotype
issuer's organization. The logotype
 be consistent with, and require the presence of, an
organization name stored in the organization attribute in the issuer field (for either a public
key certificate or attribute certificate). The issuerLogo
certificate, a CA certificate, or an attribute certificate.

 be present in an end entity

 represent the

MUST

MUST

MAY

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 10

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

•

subject organization logotype: If subjectLogo is present, the logotype
subject's organization. The logotype
 be consistent with, and require the presence of, an
organization name stored in the organization attribute in the subject field (for either a public
key certificate or attribute certificate). The subjectLogo
certificate, a CA certificate, or an attribute certificate.

 be present in an end entity

 represent the

MUST

MUST

MAY

The relationship between the subject organization and the subject organization logotype, and the
relationship between the issuer and either the issuer organization logotype or the community
logotype, are relationships asserted by the issuer. The policies and practices employed by the
issuer that check subject organization logotypes or claims about its issuer and community
logotypes are outside the scope of this document.

4.2.  Conventions for LogotypeImageInfo

When the optional LogotypeImageInfo is included with a logotype image, the parameters
be used with the following semantics and restrictions.

MUST

The xSize and ySize fields represent the recommended display size for the logotype image. When
a value of 0 (zero) is present, no recommended display size is specified. When non-zero values
are present and these values differ from corresponding size values in the referenced image
object, then the referenced image
LogotypeImageInfo while preserving the x and y ratio. Dithering may produce a more
appropriate image than linear scaling.

 be scaled to fit within the size parameters of

SHOULD

The resolution field is redundant for all logotype image formats listed in Section 7. The optional
resolution field

 be omitted when the image format already contains this information.

SHOULD

4.3.  Embedded Images

If the logotype image is provided through direct addressing, then the image
the logotype certificate extension using the "data" scheme
scheme is shown below, which incorporates Errata ID 2045 and uses modern ABNF

 be stored within
. The syntax of the "data" URI

[RFC5234]
:

[RFC2397]

MAY

     dataurl    = "data:" [ media-type ] [ ";base64" ] "," data
     data       = *(reserved / unreserved / escaped)
     reserved   = ";" / "/" / "?" / ":" / "@" / "&" / "=" / "+" /
                  "$" / ","
     unreserved = alphanum / mark
     alphanum   = ALPHA / DIGIT
     mark       = "-" / "_" / "." / "!" / "~" / "*" / "'" / "(" / ")"
     escaped    = "%" hex hex
     hex        = HEXDIG / "a" / "b" / "c" / "d" / "e" / "f"

where media-type is defined in
defined in

Appendix B.1 of [RFC5234]
.

Section 8.3.1 of [RFC9110]

 and ALPHA, DIGIT, and HEXDIG are

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 11

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

When including the image data in the logotype certificate extension using the "data" URI scheme,
the following conventions apply:

•

The value of mediaType in LogotypeDetails
"data" URL.

MUST

 be identical to the media type value in the

•

The hash of the image
same data as it would have been if the image had been referenced through a link to an
external resource.

 be included in logotypeHash and

 be calculated over the

MUST

MUST

NOTE: As the "data" URI scheme is processed as a data source rather than as a URL,
the image data is typically not limited by any URL length limit settings that
otherwise apply to URLs in general.

NOTE: Implementations need to be cautious about the size of images included in a
certificate in order to ensure that the size of the certificate does not prevent the
certificate from being used as intended.

4.4.  Other Logotypes

Logotypes identified by otherLogos (as defined in Section 4.1) can be used to enhance the display
of logotypes and marks that represent partners, products, services, or any other characteristic
associated with the certificate or its intended application environment when the standard
logotype types are insufficient.

The conditions and contexts of the intended use of these logotypes are defined at the discretion
of the local client application.

Three other logotype types are defined in the follow subsections.

4.4.1.  Loyalty Logotype

When a loyalty logotype appears in otherLogos, it
identifier.

MUST

 be identified by the id-logo-loyalty object

   id-logo OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-pkix 20 }

   id-logo-loyalty    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-logo 1 }

A loyalty logotype, if present,
to the certificate or its use. The relation between the certificate and the identified loyalty
program is beyond the scope of this document. The logotype certificate extension
more than one loyalty logotype.

 contain a logotype associated with a loyalty program related

 contain

MUST

MAY

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 12

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

If more than one loyalty logotype is present, they
appearance. Some clients
therefore, the placement within the sequence aids the client selection. The most preferred loyalty
logotype data
be last in the sequence.

 be first in the sequence, and the least preferred loyalty logotype data

 choose to display a subset of the present loyalty logotype data;

 be placed in order of preferred

MUST

MUST

MUST

MAY

4.4.2.  Certificate Background Logotype

When a certificate background logotype appears in otherLogos, it
logo-background object identifier.

MUST

 be identified by the id-

   id-logo-background OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-logo 2 }

The certificate background logotype, if present,
background image for the certificate and/or a general audio sequence for the certificate. The
background image
background image. The logotype certificate extension
certificate background logotype.

 allow black text to be clearly read when placed on top of the

 contain a graphical image intended as a

 contain more than one

MUST NOT

MUST

MUST

4.4.3.  Certificate Image Logotype

When a certificate image logotype appears in otherLogos, it
certImage object identifier.

MUST

 be identified by the id-logo-

   id-logo-certImage OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-logo 3 }

The certificate image logotype, if present, aids human interpretation of a certificate by providing
meaningful visual information to the user interface (UI). The logotype certificate extension
MUST
NOT

 contain more than one certificate image logotype.

Typical situations when a human needs to examine the visual representation of a certificate are:

•

A person establishes a secured channel with an authenticated service. The person needs to
determine the identity of the service based on the authenticated credentials.

•

A person validates the signature on critical information, such as signed executable code, and
needs to determine the identity of the signer based on the signer's certificate.

•

A person is required to select an appropriate certificate to be used when authenticating to a
service or identity management infrastructure. The person needs to see the available
certificates in order to distinguish between them in the selection process.

The display of certificate information to humans is challenging due to lack of well-defined
semantics for critical identity attributes. Unless the application has out-of-band knowledge about
a particular certificate, the application will not know the exact nature of the data stored in
common identification attributes, such as serialNumber, organizationName, country, etc.
Consequently, the application can display the actual data but faces the problem of labeling that

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 13

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

data in the UI and informing the human about the exact nature (semantics) of that data. It is also
challenging for the application to determine which identification attributes are important to
display and how to organize them in a logical order.

When present, the certificate image
This means that the display of this certificate image represents all information about the
certificate that the issuer subjectively defines as relevant to show to a typical human user within
the typical intended use of the certificate, giving adequate information about at least the
following three aspects of the certificate:

 be a complete visual representation of the certificate.

MUST

•

certificate context

•

certificate issuer

•

certificate subject

Certificate context information is visual marks and/or textual information that helps the typical
user to understand the typical usage and/or purpose of the certificate.

It is up to the issuer to decide what information -- in the form of text, graphical symbols, and
elements -- represents a complete visual representation of the certificate. However, the visual
representation of certificate subject and certificate issuer information from the certificate
MUST
have the same meaning as the textual representation of that information in the certificate itself.

Applications providing a Graphical User Interface (GUI) to the certificate user
certificate image as the only visual representation of a certificate; however, the certificate user
SHOULD

 be able to easily obtain the details of the certificate content.

 present a

MAY

5.  Type of Certificates

MAY

 be included in public key certificates and attribute certificates at the discretion of

Logotypes
the certificate issuer; however, the relying party
certification path validation or automated trust decisions. The sole purpose of logotypes is to
enhance the display of a particular certificate, regardless of its position in a certification path.

 use the logotypes as part of

MUST NOT

6.  Use in Clients

All PKI implementations require relying party software to have some mechanism to determine
whether a trusted CA issues a particular certificate. This is an issue for certification path
validation, including consistent policy and name checking.

After a certification path is successfully validated, the replying party trusts the information that
the CA includes in the certificate, including any certificate extensions. The client software can
choose to make use of such information, or the client software can ignore it. If the client is
unable to support a provided logotype, the client
MUST
standards do not provide any mechanism for cross-certifying CAs to constrain subordinate CAs
from including private extensions (see Section 9).

 behave as though no logotype certificate extension was included in the certificate. Current

 report an error; instead, the client

MUST NOT

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 14

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

Consequently, if relying party software accepts a CA, then it should be prepared to
(unquestioningly) display the associated logotypes to its human user, given that it is configured
to do so. Information about the logotypes is provided so that the replying party software can
select the one that will best meet the needs of the human user. This choice depends on the
abilities of the human user, as well as the capabilities of the platform on which the replaying
party software is running. If none of the provided logotypes meets the needs of the human user
or matches the capabilities of the platform, then the logotypes can be ignored.

MAY

, subject to local policy, choose to display none, one, or any number of the logotypes
A client
in the logotype certificate extension. In many cases, a client will be used in an environment with
a good network connection and also used in an environment with little or no network
connectivity. For example, a laptop computer can be docked with a high-speed LAN connection,
or it can be disconnected from the network altogether. In recognition of this situation, the client
MUST
can still be displayed when the user disables the fetching of additional logotypes.

 include the ability to disable the fetching of logotypes. However, locally cached logotypes

, subject to local policy, choose any combination of audio and image presentation for

MAY
 play a sound with or without displaying an image. A client

 display an image with or without playing a sound, and it
 play more than one

MUST NOT

MAY

A client
each logotype. That is, the client
MAY
logotype audio sequence at the same time.

The logotype is to be displayed in conjunction with other identity information contained in the
certificate. The logotype is not a replacement for this identity information.

Care is needed when designing replying party software to ensure that an appropriate context of
logotype information is provided. This is especially difficult with audio logotypes. It is important
that the human user be able to recognize the context of the logotype, even if other audio streams
are being played.

If the relying party software is unable to successfully validate a particular certificate, then it
MUST NOT

 display any logotype data associated with that certificate.

7.  Image Formats

Animated images

SHOULD NOT

 be used.

The following table lists common image formats and the corresponding media type. The table
also indicates the support requirements for these image formats. The file name extensions
commonly used for each of these formats is also provided. Implementations
image formats.

 support other

MAY

Format

Media Type

Extension

References

Implement?

JPEG

image/jpeg

.jpg
.jpeg

[JPEG]
[RFC2046]

MUST

 support

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 15

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

Format

Media Type

Extension

References

Implement?

GIF

image/gif

.gif

SVG

image/svg+xml

.svg

SVG + GZIP

image/svg+xml+gzip

PNG

image/png

.svgz
.svg.gz

.png

PDF

application/pdf

.pdf

MUST

 support

SHOULD

 support

MUST

 support

SHOULD

 support

MAY

 support

[GIF]
[RFC2046]

[SVGT]
[SVGR]

[SVGT]
[SVGZR]

[ISO15948]
[PNGR]

[ISO32000]
[ISO19005]
[RFC8118]

Table 1: Image Formats

NOTE: The image/svg+xml-compressed media type is widely implemented, but it has
not yet been registered with IANA.

When a Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) image is used, whether the image is compressed or not,
the SVG Tiny profile

 be followed, with these additional restrictions:

[SVGT] MUST

•

MUST NOT

The SVG image
 contain any Internationalized Resource Identifier (IRI) references
to information stored outside of the SVG image of type B, C, or D, according to Section 14.1.4
of

[SVGT]

.

•

The SVG image

MUST NOT

 contain any script element, according to Section 15.2 of

[SVGT]

.

•

The XML structure in the SVG file
when calculating a hash over the SVG image.

MUST

 use linefeed (0x0A) as the end-of-line (EOL) character

When a GZIP-compressed SVG image is fetched with HTTP, the client will receive a response that
includes these headers:

   Content-Type: image/svg+xml
   Content-Encoding: gzip

In this case, the octet stream of type image/svg+xml is compressed with GZIP
specified in

[SVGR]
.

[RFC1952]

, as

When an uncompressed SVG image is fetched with HTTP, the client will receive a response with
the same Content-Type header but no Content-Encoding header.

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 16

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

Whether the SVG image is GZIP-compressed or uncompressed, the hash value for the SVG image
is calculated over the uncompressed SVG content with canonicalized EOL characters, as specified
above.

When an SVG image is embedded in the certificate extension using the "data" URL scheme, the
SVG image data
compression,

 be provided in GZIP-compressed form, and the XML structure, prior to
 use linefeed (0x0A) as the end-of-line (EOL) character.

SHOULD

MUST

When a bitmap image is used, the PNG

[ISO15948]

 format

SHOULD

 be used.

According to
be formatted according to the profile PDF/A

, when a Portable Document Format (PDF) document is used, it
[ISO19005]
.

[ISO32000]

MUST

 also

8.  Audio Formats

Implementations that support audio
type of "audio/mpeg"
SHOULD
media type of "text/plain;charset=UTF-8". Implementations

. Implementations

[RFC3003]

MUST

[MP3]
 support text-based audio data with a
MAY

 support other audio formats.

 with a media

 support the MP3 audio format

Text-based audio data using the media type of "text/plain;charset=UTF-8" is intended to be used
by text-to-speech software. When this audio type is used, the following requirements apply:

•

LogotypeAudioInfo

MUST

 be present and specify the language of the text.

•

The fileSize, playTime, and channels elements of LogotypeAudioInfo
0.

MUST

 have the value of

•

The sampleRate element of LogotypeAudioInfo

MUST

 be absent.

9.  Security Considerations

Implementations that simultaneously display multiple logotype types (subject organization,
 ensure that there is no ambiguity as to the
issuer organization, community, or other)
MUST
binding between the image and the type of logotype that the image represents. "Logotype type" is
defined in Section 1.1, and it refers to the type of entity or affiliation represented by the logotype,
not the of binary format of the image or audio.

Logotypes are very difficult to securely and accurately define. Names are also difficult in this
regard, but logotypes are even worse. It is quite difficult to specify what is, and what is not, a
legitimate logotype of an organization. There is an entire legal structure around this issue, and it
will not be repeated here. However, issuers should be aware of the implications of including
images associated with a trademark or servicemark before doing so. As logotypes can be difficult
(and sometimes expensive) to verify, the possibility of errors related to assigning wrong
logotypes to organizations is increased.

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 17

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

This is not a new issue for electronic identification instruments. It is already dealt with in a
number of similar situations in the physical world, including physical employee identification
cards. In addition, there are situations where identification of logotypes is rather simple and
straightforward, such as logotypes for well-known industries and institutes. These issues should
not stop those service providers who want to issue logotypes from doing so, where relevant.

It is impossible to prevent fraudulent creation of certificates by dishonest or badly performing
issuers, containing names and logotypes that the issuer has no claim to or has failed to check
correctly. Such certificates could be created in an attempt to socially engineer a user into
accepting a certificate. The premise used for the logotype work is thus that logotype graphics in a
certificate are trusted only if the certificate is successfully validated within a valid path. It is thus
imperative that the representation of any certificate that fails to validate is not enhanced in any
way by using the logotype data.

This underlines the necessity for CAs to provide reliable services and the relying party's
responsibility and need to carefully select which CAs are trusted to provide public key
certificates.

This also underlines the general necessity for relying parties to use up-to-date software libraries
to render or dereference data from external sources, including logotype data in certificates, to
minimize risks related to processing potentially malicious data before it has been adequately
verified and validated. Implementers should review the guidance in

Section 7 of [RFC3986]
.

Referenced image objects are hashed in order to bind the image to the signature of the
certificate. Some image types, such as SVG, allow part of the image to be collected from an
external source by incorporating a reference to an external file that contains the image. If this
feature were used within a logotype image, the hash of the image would only cover the URI
reference to the external image file but not the referenced image data. Clients
that SVG images meet all requirements listed in Section 7 and reject images that contain
references to external data.

SHOULD

 verify

CAs issuing certificates with embedded logotype images should be cautious when accepting
graphics from the certificate requester for inclusion in the certificate if the hash algorithm used
to sign the certificate is vulnerable to collision attacks, as described in
. In such a case,
the accepted image may contain data that could help an attacker to obtain colliding certificates
with identical certificate signatures.

[RFC6151]

Certification paths may also impose name constraints that are systematically checked during
certification path processing, which, in theory, may be circumvented by logotypes.

[RFC5280]

Certificate path processing, as defined in
, does not constrain the inclusion of logotype
data in certificates. A parent CA can constrain certification path validation such that subordinate
CAs cannot issue valid certificates to end entities outside a limited name space or outside specific
certificate policies. A malicious CA can comply with these name and policy requirements and still
include inappropriate logotypes in the certificates that it issues. These certificates will pass the
certification path validation algorithm, which means the client will trust the logotypes in the
certificates. Since there is no technical mechanism to prevent or control subordinate CAs from

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 18

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

including the logotype certificate extension or its contents, where appropriate, a parent CA could
employ a legal agreement to impose a suitable restriction on the subordinate CA. This situation is
not unique to the logotype certificate extension.

When a relying party fetches remote logotype data, a mismatch between the media type
provided in the mediaType field of the LogotypeDetails and the Content-Type HTTP header of the
retrieved object
 be treated as a failure, and the fetched logotype data should not be
presented to the user. However, if more than one location for the remote logotype data is
provided in the certificate extension, the relying party
from an alternate location to resolve the failure.

 try to fetch the remote logotype data

MUST

MAY

When a subscriber requests the inclusion of remote logotype data in a certificate, the CA cannot
be sure that any logotype data will be available at the provided URI for the entire validity period
of the certificate. To mitigate this concern, the CA may provide the logotype data from a server
under its control, rather than a subscriber-controlled server.

The controls available to a parent CA to protect itself from rogue subordinate CAs are non-
technical. They include:

•

Contractual agreements of suitable behavior, including terms of liability in case of material
breach.

•

Control mechanisms and procedures to monitor and follow the behavior of subordinate CAs,
.
including Certificate Transparency

[RFC9162]

•

Use of certificate policies to declare an assurance level of logotype data, as well as to guide
applications on how to treat and display logotypes.

•

Use of revocation functions to revoke any misbehaving CA.

There is not a simple, straightforward, and absolute technical solution. Rather, involved parties
must settle some aspects of PKI outside the scope of technical controls. As such, issuers need to
clearly identify and communicate the associated risks.

10.  Privacy Considerations

Certificates are commonly public objects, so the inclusion of privacy-sensitive information in
certificates should be avoided. The more information that is included in a certificate, the greater
the likelihood that the certificate will reveal privacy-sensitive information. The inclusion of
logotype data needs to be considered in this context.

Logotype data might be fetched from a server when it is needed. By watching activity on the
network, an observer can determine which clients are making use of certificates that contain
particular logotype data. Since clients are expected to locally cache logotype data, network traffic
to the server containing the logotype data will not be generated every time the certificate is used.
Further, when logotype data is not cached, activity on the network might reveal certificate usage
frequency. Even when logotype data is cached, regardless of whether direct or indirect
addressing is employed, network traffic monitoring could reveal when logotype data is fetched
 encrypt fetches of logotype data using HTTPS, padding
for the first time. Implementations

MAY

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 19

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

the data to a common size to reduce visibility into the data that is being fetched. Likewise,
servers
padding to a few common sizes.

 reduce visibility into the data that is being returned by encrypting with HTTPS and

MAY

Similarly, when fetching logotype data from a server, the server operator can determine which
clients are making use of certificates that contain particular logotype data. As above, locally
caching logotype data will eliminate the need to fetch the logotype data each time the certificate
is used, and lack of caching would reveal usage frequency. Even when implementations cache
logotype data, regardless of whether direct or indirect addressing is employed, the server
operator could observe when logotype data is fetched for the first time.

In addition, the use of an encrypted DNS mechanism, such as DNS over TLS (DoT)
DNS over HTTPS (DoH)
in fetching remote logotype objects.

 or
, hides the name resolution traffic, which is usually a first step

[RFC9230]

[RFC7858]

When the "data" URI scheme is used with direct addressing, there is no network traffic to fetch
logotype data, which avoids the observations of network traffic or server operations described
above. To obtain this benefit, the certificate will be larger than one that contains a URL. Due to
the improved privacy posture, the "data" URI scheme with direct addressing will be the only one
that is supported by some CAs. Privacy-aware certificate subscribers
logotype data is embedded in the certificate with the "data" URI scheme with direct addressing.

 wish to insist that

MAY

In cases where logotype data is cached by the relying party, the cache index should include the
hash values of the associated logotype data with the goal of fetching the logotype data only once,
even when it is referenced by multiple URIs. The index should include hash values for all
supported hash algorithms. The cached data should include the media type as well as the
logotype data. Implementations should give preference to logotype data that is already in the
cache when multiple alternatives are offered in the LogotypeExtn certificate extension.

When the "data" URI scheme is used, the relying party
the local cache, which could avoid the need to fetch the logotype data if it is referenced by a URL
in another certificate.

 add the embedded logotype data to

MAY

When fetching remote logotype data, relying parties should use the most privacy-preserving
options that are available to minimize the opportunities for servers to "fingerprint" clients. For
example, avoid cookies, ETags, and client certificates.

When a relying party encounters a new certificate, the lack of network traffic to fetch logotype
data might indicate that a certificate with references to the same logotype data has been
previously processed and cached.

[RFC8446]

TLS 1.3
 includes the ability to encrypt the server's certificate in the TLS handshake,
which helps hide the server's identity from anyone that is watching activity on the network. If
the server's certificate includes remote logotype data, the client fetching that data might disclose
the otherwise protected server identity.

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 20

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

11.  IANA Considerations

For the new ASN.1 module in Appendix A.2, IANA has assigned the following OID in the "SMI
Security for PKIX Module Identifier" registry (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.0):

Decimal Description

References

107

id-mod-logotype-2022

RFC 9399

Table 2

IANA has updated the entries in the "Structure of Management Information (SMI) Numbers"
registry that referred to
 to refer to this document. These entries are
noted in the tables below.

[RFC3709]

[RFC6170]

 or

From the "SMI Security for PKIX Module Identifier" registry (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.0):

Decimal Description

References

22

68

Table 3

id-mod-logotype

RFC 9399

id-mod-logotype-certimage

RFC 9399

From the "SMI Security for PKIX Certificate Extension" registry (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.1):

Decimal Description

References

12

id-pe-logotype

RFC 9399

Table 4

From the "SMI Security for PKIX Other Logotype Identifiers" registry (1.3.6.1.5.5.7.20):

Decimal Description

References

1

2

3

Table 5

id-logo-loyalty

RFC 9399

id-logo-background

RFC 9399

id-logo-certImage

RFC 9399

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 21

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

12.  References

12.1.  Normative References

[GIF]

[ISO15948]

[JPEG]

[MP3]

[NEW-ASN1]

[RFC1952]

[RFC2046]

[RFC2119]

[RFC2397]

[RFC3003]

[RFC3986]

[RFC5234]

CompuServe Incorporated "Graphics Interchange Format" Version 89a
1990,

<https://www.w3.org/Graphics/GIF/spec-gif89a.txt>

,

,

.

, July

,

ISO/IEC "Information technology -- Computer graphics and image processing --
Portable Network Graphics (PNG): Functional specification" ISO/IEC 15948:2004
,
March 2004.

,

,

ITU-T "Information technology -- Digital compression and coding of continuous-
tone still images: JPEG File Interchange Format (JFIF)" ITU-T Recommendation
T.871 ISO/IEC 10918-5:2013

, May 2013.

,

,

,

ISO/IEC "Information technology -- Generic coding of moving pictures and
associated audio information -- Part 3: Audio" ISO/IEC 13818-3:1998

,

, April 1998.

,

ITU-T "Information technology -- Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1):
Specification of basic notation" ITU-T Recommendation X.680 ISO/IEC
8824-1:2021

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.680>

, February 2021,

,

,

.

Deutsch, P. "GZIP file format specification version 4.3" RFC 1952 DOI 10.17487/
RFC1952

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1952>

, May 1996,

,

,

,

.

 and

Freed, N.
,
Part Two: Media Types" RFC 2046 DOI 10.17487/RFC2046
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2046>

N. Borenstein "Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME)
, November 1996,

,

,

.

,

Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels" BCP 14
RFC 2119 DOI 10.17487/RFC2119
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, March 1997,
rfc2119>

,
.

,

,

Masinter, L. "The "data" URL scheme" RFC 2397 DOI 10.17487/RFC2397
1998,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2397>

,

,

,

.

, August

Nilsson, M. "The audio/mpeg Media Type" RFC 3003 DOI 10.17487/RFC3003
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3003>
November 2000,

.

,

,

,

,

,

Berners-Lee, T. Fielding, R.
, and
Generic Syntax" STD 66 RFC 3986 DOI 10.17487/RFC3986
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>

,

,

,

.

,

L. Masinter "Uniform Resource Identifier (URI):

, January 2005,

Crocker, D., Ed.
 and
ABNF" STD 68 RFC 5234 DOI 10.17487/RFC5234
,
,
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5234>

,

.

P. Overell "Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications:

,

, January 2008,

<https://

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 22

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

[RFC5280]

[RFC5646]

[RFC5755]

[RFC8174]

[RFC8446]

[RFC9110]

[SVGT]

,

,

Cooper, D. Santesson, S. Farrell, S. Boeyen, S. Housley, R.
"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation
List (CRL) Profile" RFC 5280 DOI 10.17487/RFC5280
editor.org/info/rfc5280>

, May 2008,

<https://www.rfc-

W. Polk

, and

,

,

,

,

,

.

 and

Phillips, A., Ed.
5646 DOI 10.17487/RFC5646
,
rfc5646>

.

M. Davis, Ed. "Tags for Identifying Languages" BCP 47 RFC
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, September 2009,

,

,

,

Farrell, S. Housley, R.
,
for Authorization" RFC 5755 DOI 10.17487/RFC5755
www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5755>

, and

,

,

.

S. Turner "An Internet Attribute Certificate Profile

,

, January 2010,

<https://

,

Leiba, B. "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC 2119 Key Words" BCP
14 RFC 8174 DOI 10.17487/RFC8174
rfc8174>

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

, May 2017,

,

,

,

.

Rescorla, E. "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version 1.3" RFC 8446
,
,
DOI 10.17487/RFC8446

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>

, August 2018,

,

.

,

Fielding, R., Ed. Nottingham, M., Ed.
97 RFC 9110 DOI 10.17487/RFC9110
rfc9110>

,

,

.

, and
, June 2022,

J. Reschke, Ed. "HTTP Semantics" STD
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/

,

,

World Wide Web Consortium "Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) Tiny 1.2
<http://
Specification" W3C REC-SVGTiny12-20081222
www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-SVGTiny12-20081222/>

, December 2008,

,

,

.

12.2.  Informative References

[ISO19005]

[ISO32000]

[OLD-ASN1]

[PNGR]

[RFC3709]

[RFC5912]

,

ISO "Document management -- Electronic document file format for long-term
preservation -- Part 1: Use of PDF 1.4 (PDF/A-1)" ISO 19005-1:2005

, October 2005.

,

,

ISO "Document management -- Portable document format -- Part 1: PDF 1.7"
ISO 32000-1:2008

, July 2008.

,

,

CCITT "Specification of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1)" CCITT
Recommendation X.208
en>

, November 1988,

<https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.208/

,

.

World Wide Web Consortium "Media Type Registration for image/png" <https://
www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/image/png>

,

.

,

Santesson, S. Housley, R.
,
Infrastructure: Logotypes in X.509 Certificates" RFC 3709 DOI 10.17487/
RFC3709

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3709>

T. Freeman "Internet X.509 Public Key

, February 2004,

, and

,

,

,

.

 and

J. Schaad "New ASN.1 Modules for the Public Key

Hoffman, P.
Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)" RFC 5912 DOI 10.17487/RFC5912
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5912>

,

,

.

, June 2010,

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 23

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

[RFC6151]

[RFC6170]

[RFC6268]

[RFC7858]

[RFC8118]

[RFC9162]

[RFC9216]

[RFC9230]

[SVGR]

[SVGZR]

 and

L. Chen "Updated Security Considerations for the MD5 Message-

Turner, S.
Digest and the HMAC-MD5 Algorithms" RFC 6151 DOI 10.17487/RFC6151
2011,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6151>

, March

,

,

,

.

,

Santesson, S. Housley, R. Bajaj, S.
, and
Infrastructure -- Certificate Image" RFC 6170 DOI 10.17487/RFC6170
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6170>

L. Rosenthol "Internet X.509 Public Key

, May 2011,

,

,

,

.

,

 and

S. Turner "Additional New ASN.1 Modules for the Cryptographic

Schaad, J.
Message Syntax (CMS) and the Public Key Infrastructure Using X.509 (PKIX)"
,
RFC 6268 DOI 10.17487/RFC6268
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/
, July 2011,
rfc6268>

,
.

,

,

Hu, Z. Zhu, L. Heidemann, J. Mankin, A. Wessels, D.
"Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security (TLS)" RFC 7858 DOI
10.17487/RFC7858

,
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7858>

, May 2016,

P. Hoffman

, and

,

,

,

.

,

Hardy, M. Masinter, L. Markovic, D. Johnson, D.
application/pdf Media Type" RFC 8118 DOI 10.17487/RFC8118
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8118>

, and

,

,

,

,

.

M. Bailey "The

,

, March 2017,

Laurie, B. Messeri, E.
,
RFC 9162 DOI 10.17487/RFC9162
,
info/rfc9162>

, and

.

R. Stradling "Certificate Transparency Version 2.0"
,
<https://www.rfc-editor.org/

, December 2021,

,

Gillmor, D. K., Ed. "S/MIME Example Keys and Certificates" RFC 9216 DOI
,
10.17487/RFC9216
, April 2022,

<https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9216>

.

,

,

,

Kinnear, E. McManus, P. Pauly, T. Verma, T.
over HTTPS" RFC 9230 DOI 10.17487/RFC9230
,
editor.org/info/rfc9230>
.

,

,

,

, and

C.A. Wood "Oblivious DNS
<https://www.rfc-

, June 2022,

,

World Wide Web Consortium "Media Type Registration for image/svg+xml"
<https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/image/svg+xml>

,

.

,

"A separate MIME type for svgz files is needed" <https://github.com/w3c/svgwg/
issues/701>

,

.

Appendix A.  ASN.1 Modules

A.1.  ASN.1 Modules with 1988 Syntax

This appendix contains two ASN.1 modules, both using the old syntax

[OLD-ASN1]
.

The first ASN.1 module provides the syntax for the logotype certificate extension. Only comments
have changed in the module from

 and the IMPORTS now come from

[RFC5280]
.

[RFC3709]

The second ASN.1 module provides the certificate image object identifier. The module is
unchanged from

[RFC6170]
.

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 24

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

<CODE BEGINS>
LogotypeCertExtn
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
    security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
    id-mod-logotype(22) }

DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN

IMPORTS
   AlgorithmIdentifier FROM PKIX1Explicit88 -- RFC 5280
     { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
       security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
       id-pkix1-explicit(18) };

-- Logotype Certificate Extension OID

id-pe-logotype  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=
   { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
     security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-pe(1) 12 }

-- Logotype Certificate Extension Syntax

LogotypeExtn ::= SEQUENCE {
   communityLogos  [0] EXPLICIT SEQUENCE OF LogotypeInfo OPTIONAL,
   issuerLogo      [1] EXPLICIT LogotypeInfo OPTIONAL,
   subjectLogo     [2] EXPLICIT LogotypeInfo OPTIONAL,
   otherLogos      [3] EXPLICIT SEQUENCE OF OtherLogotypeInfo
                          OPTIONAL }

-- Note: At least one of the OPTIONAL components MUST be present

LogotypeInfo ::= CHOICE {
   direct          [0] LogotypeData,
   indirect        [1] LogotypeReference }

LogotypeData ::= SEQUENCE {
   image           SEQUENCE OF LogotypeImage OPTIONAL,
   audio           [1] SEQUENCE OF LogotypeAudio OPTIONAL }

-- Note: At least one of the OPTIONAL components MUST be present

LogotypeImage ::= SEQUENCE {
   imageDetails    LogotypeDetails,
   imageInfo       LogotypeImageInfo OPTIONAL }

LogotypeAudio ::= SEQUENCE {
   audioDetails    LogotypeDetails,
   audioInfo       LogotypeAudioInfo OPTIONAL }

LogotypeDetails ::= SEQUENCE {
   mediaType       IA5String, -- Media type name and optional
                              -- parameters
   logotypeHash    SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF HashAlgAndValue,
   logotypeURI     SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF IA5String }

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 25

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

LogotypeImageInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
   type            [0] LogotypeImageType DEFAULT color,
   fileSize        INTEGER,  -- In octets, 0=unspecified
   xSize           INTEGER,  -- Horizontal size in pixels
   ySize           INTEGER,  -- Vertical size in pixels
   resolution      LogotypeImageResolution OPTIONAL,
   language        [4] IA5String OPTIONAL }  -- RFC 5646 Language Tag

LogotypeImageType ::= INTEGER { grayScale(0), color(1) }

LogotypeImageResolution ::= CHOICE {
   numBits         [1] INTEGER,   -- Resolution in bits per pixel
   tableSize       [2] INTEGER }  -- Number of colors or grey tones

LogotypeAudioInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
   fileSize        INTEGER,  -- In octets, 0=unspecified
   playTime        INTEGER,  -- In milliseconds, 0=unspecified
   channels        INTEGER,  -- 0=unspecified,
                             -- 1=mono, 2=stereo, 4=quad
   sampleRate      [3] INTEGER OPTIONAL,  -- Samples per second
   language        [4] IA5String OPTIONAL }  -- RFC 5646 Language Tag

OtherLogotypeInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
   logotypeType    OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
   info            LogotypeInfo }

LogotypeReference ::= SEQUENCE {
   refStructHash   SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF HashAlgAndValue,
   refStructURI    SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF IA5String }
                    -- Places to get the same LogotypeData
                    -- image or audio object

-- Note: The referenced LogotypeData binary file contains a
--       DER-encoded LogotypeData type

HashAlgAndValue ::= SEQUENCE {
   hashAlg         AlgorithmIdentifier,
   hashValue       OCTET STRING }

-- Other logotype type OIDs

id-logo OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1) identified-organization(3)
   dod(6) internet(1) security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) 20 }

id-logo-loyalty    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-logo 1 }

id-logo-background OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-logo 2 }

END

CERT-IMAGE-MODULE { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6)
    internet(1) security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
    id-mod-logotype-certimage(68) }

DEFINITIONS EXPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 26

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

EXPORTS ALL;   -- export all items from this module

id-logo-certImage  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=
   { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
     security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-logo(20) 3 }

END

<CODE ENDS>

A.2.  ASN.1 Module with 2002 Syntax

Some developers like to use the latest version of ASN.1 standards. This appendix provides an
ASN.1 module to assist in that goal. It uses the ASN.1 syntax defined in
follows the conventions established in

[NEW-ASN1]

[RFC6268]
.

[RFC5912]

, and it

 and

This ASN.1 module incorporates the module from

[RFC3709]

 and the module from

[RFC6170]
.

Note that
backward compatible with the specification that was published in 2002.

 was published in 2021, and all of the features used in this module are

[NEW-ASN1]

<CODE BEGINS>
LogotypeCertExtn-2022
  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
    security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
    id-mod-logotype-2022(107) }

DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN

IMPORTS
  EXTENSION
  FROM PKIX-CommonTypes-2009  -- RFC 5912
    { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
      security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
      id-mod-pkixCommon-02(57) }

  AlgorithmIdentifier{}, DIGEST-ALGORITHM
  FROM AlgorithmInformation-2009
    { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
      security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
      id-mod-algorithmInformation-02(58) } ;

-- Logotype Certificate Extension

ext-logotype EXTENSION ::= {
   SYNTAX LogotypeExtn
   IDENTIFIED BY id-pe-logotype }

-- Logotype Certificate Extension OID

id-pe-logotype  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::=
   { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 27

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

     security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-pe(1) 12 }

-- Logotype Certificate Extension Syntax

LogotypeExtn ::= SEQUENCE {
   communityLogos  [0] EXPLICIT SEQUENCE OF LogotypeInfo OPTIONAL,
   issuerLogo      [1] EXPLICIT LogotypeInfo OPTIONAL,
   subjectLogo     [2] EXPLICIT LogotypeInfo OPTIONAL,
   otherLogos      [3] EXPLICIT SEQUENCE OF OtherLogotypeInfo
                          OPTIONAL }
      -- At least one of the OPTIONAL components MUST be present
      ( WITH COMPONENTS { ..., communityLogos PRESENT } |
        WITH COMPONENTS { ..., issuerLogo PRESENT } |
        WITH COMPONENTS { ..., subjectLogo PRESENT } |
        WITH COMPONENTS { ..., otherLogos PRESENT } )

LogotypeInfo ::= CHOICE {
   direct          [0] LogotypeData,
   indirect        [1] LogotypeReference }

LogotypeData ::= SEQUENCE {
   image           SEQUENCE OF LogotypeImage OPTIONAL,
   audio           [1] SEQUENCE OF LogotypeAudio OPTIONAL }
      -- At least one image component MUST be present
      ( WITH COMPONENTS { ..., image PRESENT } )

LogotypeImage ::= SEQUENCE {
   imageDetails    LogotypeDetails,
   imageInfo       LogotypeImageInfo OPTIONAL }

LogotypeAudio ::= SEQUENCE {
   audioDetails    LogotypeDetails,
   audioInfo       LogotypeAudioInfo OPTIONAL }

LogotypeDetails ::= SEQUENCE {
   mediaType       IA5String, -- Media type name and optional
                              -- parameters
   logotypeHash    SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF HashAlgAndValue,
   logotypeURI     SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF IA5String }

LogotypeImageInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
   type            [0] LogotypeImageType DEFAULT color,
   fileSize        INTEGER,  -- In octets, 0=unspecified
   xSize           INTEGER,  -- Horizontal size in pixels
   ySize           INTEGER,  -- Vertical size in pixels
   resolution      LogotypeImageResolution OPTIONAL,
   language        [4] IA5String OPTIONAL }  -- RFC 5646 Language Tag

LogotypeImageType ::= INTEGER { grayScale(0), color(1) }

LogotypeImageResolution ::= CHOICE {
   numBits         [1] INTEGER,   -- Resolution in bits
   tableSize       [2] INTEGER }  -- Number of colors or grey tones

LogotypeAudioInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
   fileSize        INTEGER,  -- In octets, 0=unspecified
   playTime        INTEGER,  -- In milliseconds, 0=unspecified
   channels        INTEGER,  -- 0=unspecified

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 28

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

                             -- 1=mono, 2=stereo, 4=quad
   sampleRate      [3] INTEGER OPTIONAL,  -- Samples per second
   language        [4] IA5String OPTIONAL }  -- RFC 5646 Language Tag

OtherLogotypeInfo ::= SEQUENCE {
   logotypeType    OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
   info            LogotypeInfo }

LogotypeReference ::= SEQUENCE {
   refStructHash   SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF HashAlgAndValue,
   refStructURI    SEQUENCE SIZE (1..MAX) OF IA5String }
                    -- Places to get the same LogotypeData
                    -- image or audio object

-- Note: The referenced LogotypeData binary file contains a
--       DER-encoded LogotypeData type

HashAlgAndValue ::= SEQUENCE {
   hashAlg         AlgorithmIdentifier{DIGEST-ALGORITHM, {...}},
   hashValue       OCTET STRING }

-- Other logotype type OIDs

id-logo OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { iso(1) identified-organization(3)
   dod(6) internet(1) security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) 20 }

id-logo-loyalty    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-logo 1 }

id-logo-background OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { id-logo 2 }

id-logo-certImage  OBJECT IDENTIFIER  ::= { id-logo 3 }

END

<CODE ENDS>

Appendix B.  Examples

B.1.  Example from RFC 3709

The following example displays a logotype certificate extension containing one issuer
organization logotype using direct addressing. The issuer organization logotype image is of the
type image/gif. The logotype image is referenced through one URI, and the image is hashed with
SHA-256. This example is changed from

 to use SHA-256 instead of SHA-1.

[RFC3709]

The values on the left are the ASN.1 tag (in hexadecimal) and the length (in decimal).

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 29

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

30 122: SEQUENCE {
06   8:  OBJECT IDENTIFIER logotype (1 3 6 1 5 5 7 1 12)
04 110:  OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
30 108:   SEQUENCE {
A1 106:    [1] {
A0 104:     [0] {
30 102:      SEQUENCE {
30 100:       SEQUENCE {
30  98:        SEQUENCE {
16   9:         IA5String 'image/gif'
30  49:         SEQUENCE {
30  47:          SEQUENCE {
30  11:           SEQUENCE {
06   9:            OBJECT IDENTIFIER
      :             sha-256 (2 16 840 1 101 3 4 2 1)
      :             }
04  32:           OCTET STRING
      :            6A 58 50 2E 59 67 F9 DD D1 8A FE BD 0D B1 FE 60
      :            A5 13 1B DF 0F B2 BE F0 B5 73 45 50 BA 1B BF 19
      :            }
      :           }
30  34:         SEQUENCE {
16  32:          IA5String 'http://logo.example.com/logo.gif'
      :           }
      :          }
      :         }
      :        }
      :       }
      :      }
      :     }
      :    }
      :   }

B.2.  Issuer Organization Logotype Example

The following example displays a logotype certificate extension containing one issuer
organization logotype using direct addressing. The issuer organization logotype image is of the
type image/jpeg. The logotype image is referenced through one URI, and the image is hashed with
SHA-256.

The values on the left are the ASN.1 tag (in hexadecimal) and the length (in decimal).

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 30

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

30 124: SEQUENCE {
06   8:  OBJECT IDENTIFIER logotype (1 3 6 1 5 5 7 1 12)
04 112:  OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
30 110:   SEQUENCE {
A1 108:    [1] {
A0 106:     [0] {
30 104:      SEQUENCE {
30 102:       SEQUENCE {
30 100:        SEQUENCE {
16  10:         IA5String 'image/jpeg'
30  49:         SEQUENCE {
30  47:          SEQUENCE {
30  11:           SEQUENCE {
06   9:            OBJECT IDENTIFIER
      :             sha-256 (2 16 840 1 101 3 4 2 1)
      :             }
04  32:           OCTET STRING
      :            1E 8F 96 FD D3 50 53 EF C6 1C 9F FC F0 00 2E 53
      :            B4 9C 24 9A 32 C5 E9 0C 2C 39 39 D3 AD 6D A9 09
      :            }
      :           }
30  35:         SEQUENCE {
16  33:          IA5String 'http://logo.example.com/logo.jpeg'
      :           }
      :          }
      :         }
      :        }
      :       }
      :      }
      :     }
      :    }
      :   }

B.3.  Embedded Image Example

The following example displays a logotype certificate extension containing one subject
organization logotype using direct addressing. The subject organization logotype image uses
image/svg+xml+gzip. The logotype image is embedded in the certificate extension with a "data:"
URI, and the image is hashed by SHA-256. This technique produces a large certificate extension
but offers reduced latency and improved privacy.

The values on the left are the ASN.1 tag (in hexadecimal) and the length (in decimal).

30 2148: SEQUENCE {
06    8:  OBJECT IDENTIFIER logotype (1 3 6 1 5 5 7 1 12)
04 2134:  OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
30 2130:   SEQUENCE {
A2 2126:    [2] {
A0 2122:     [0] {
30 2118:      SEQUENCE {
30 2114:       SEQUENCE {
30 2110:        SEQUENCE {
16   18:         IA5String 'image/svg+xml+gzip'

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 31

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

30   49:         SEQUENCE {
30   47:          SEQUENCE {
30   11:           SEQUENCE {
06    9:            OBJECT IDENTIFIER
       :             sha-256 (2 16 840 1 101 3 4 2 1)
       :             }
04   32:           OCTET STRING
       :           C5 AC 94 1A 0A 25 1F B3 16 6F 97 C5 52 40 9B 49
       :           9E 7B 92 61 5A B0 A2 6C 19 BF B9 D8 09 C5 D9 E7
       :            }
       :           }
30 2035:         SEQUENCE {
16 2031:          IA5String
       :          'data:image/svg+xml+gzip;base64,H4sICIGpy2EAA2xvZ'
       :          '28tY29weS5zdmcApVbbbhs3EH3nV0y3Lw2Q9fK2JLewHDROU'
       :          'BRo2iBxW+RRlTa2UFkypIWV5ut7zlB2UqF9cuLlUktyLmfOz'
       :          'PD8xafbtdyPu/1qu5k17sw2sp/mm+V8vd2Ms2azbV5cmPNvX'
       :          'v16efXh7WvZ31/L299e/vzTpTRt1/0RLrvu1dUref/7j+Ktd'
       :          'Xawsete/9IYaW6m6e77rjscDmeHcLbdXXdX7zpu6t69vmxxo'
       :          'n08AREdRDt7tpyWDRRSz7+tgp2b/ew/hEKI5WGoPKyW082s8'
       :          'SmeWf13NzVyM66ub6ZZk+xXH+9X4+Hl9tOssWLly3553ARpd'
       :          '7txP+7uxx/2d+NiejefVttZ8+nNavkBj9yO40RLb8dpvpxP8'
       :          'wtzuRvn07iUP/+Wu+20my9GcWfOPpfDbjVN44YLb8dp3Mn7c'
       :          'b3aXGNCAICCc+a8+yLo/FpwfLP/uN3dzhqdriH5uwfbnj9a+'
       :          'Uz2i/maK66utA+zZ435uFqvZ823R38Q1t32Lw3pZqThd/PpR'
       :          'paz5o2LNkocvCzaIm0vrQvSpog359lLy3my0ga+e3Hp+B4In'
       :          'jVFPD9awdhnrGEFW30Sl/Pnpvta2QBVxUEVxFbJ2VUFfYC01'
       :          'pUs+O4GK84V/k6CHUFyhvhiDVQF8Y5aPDbmnsrXbS74DANjg'
       :          'uwgENZLPwjUYVTRJQgEpiLR0ctiWj+Ig8rCvZAArxKExEEWM'
       :          'JLqMA1F+ggnsQDXgpQeomJPCVhtCRycNrAWxgAI+g1Qsr6IU'
       :          'xlomBswjydYBEgOeVCDoRreBjiFjX2SdSA60BP5DgQM63xoP'
       :          'lWHbNq+egAEeAzxyNAdCQz+sDEMOhaGisKJdSlS6gtWWm4M1'
       :          'rQwP0egEBIhhFLoXuCJhR4mT5RJBaiLKqqFROUEzYr1idG0g'
       :          'ahwCzEnk+AMJLdp0FevQQ6VZ+SKOwGlOIJOh1MVjo0eB6DRA'
       :          '10SRpSY6il/eFFKAm+MKSIWNFqSo4OFnORfwH5wJHCMNM0ql'
       :          'DRlcIwUEkDlgiSBhiEpBgMKOx5FdAYqI3KYewKKkAItTABTk'
       :          'p5khI86kgbOgRywEBR0VGcwAjf8t9wqvdUMG6gLAbI0QQ8Cb'
       :          'zCTtCSn/DEhCbm++duQaiRG1mQkdWHnminHA+r5wpLvsJbCA'
       :          'LUKsDW5NAj43J+AD5vpfamUzJqiRJACmCWwIMhQq4HmYGKai'
       :          'iJPmIvpS80UzTtAjdSraApQZogslgFcJHw0y5WoEXDYr/aTq'
       :          'fxk2qhcg3z6ETQL+S18llvHOZQvlEOVEVpzqCozE9V6JZhh/'
       :          'lCslg7mUFY4AR7IlcApmgV6gz3DCSDe56fQ0SRS7el0NJWO8'
       :          'mQ6mkc6ylPpaL7QUZ5IR/M/dEwoJiEp+L6iT4cdSyIp4ljDk'
       :          'oaZpQlgMoz0ApahjTiTWbZYu9v+MUqVjY61j2Bxr68bPF3uS'
       :          '1232qAyAQDMhr4MRyVZq5l2QcuwgY/oTozbgoIKycH+yQxhz'
       :          'QsPJQ/ne9OmRKvYH1AeKA/EQRtzrmaYUiHUhpJOW4breSaxZ'
       :          '/TVc3ZAQJKOagAJiw6pRHVkBMIBa5E+SUMWi0ZNW1Rfn/xQX'
       :          'ywHXyMHN5G8WF6gZ2IVjANHMIJQ1lAJQE8MJjZHJiUtQZAWz'
       :          'mkisDywTVWSqLkkQG2NNB3wwyaerqRGLNKpvwUOhaQFiYcqv'
       :          'iSjvp1n8WnRRzXFs9IXDxiiDd8HU/ROoAGn9+QgTPEVu6HaN'
       :          '6i0VPuv1SCzwyZeHwBA1EjFYoAk2jJ3OFeJ5Gp1E+3Dlf3Aj'
       :          '70bbvmag5oyKHunVyGPq6+EnvTua/JUn3iadMHlqUapsK2T8'
       :          'SwCBJUF1JnEmhu0ntBthJoQpZqumsBk5mA1hRc0LR5ZFerdj'
       :          'ksaCqt3IUWXcXW16vb6xdWyHLTgCaKXWKUKK1kOp9HK5B3EL'
       :          'jSdXb0loB5RYtS01L6h9yTPW51Wpqwgosr5I927aw6401+Yf'
       :          'wDria4WoQwAAA=='
       :           }
       :          }

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 32

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

       :         }
       :        }
       :       }
       :      }
       :     }
       :    }
       :   }

B.4.  Embedded Certificate Image Example

The following example displays a logotype certificate extension containing one certificate image
logotype using direct addressing. The certificate image logotype uses image/svg+xml+gzip. The
logotype image is embedded in the certificate extension with a "data:" URI, and the image is
hashed by SHA-256. This example contains the image from
the media type used here is explicit about the use of GZIP compression

Appendix B of [RFC6170]

[RFC1952]
.

; however,

The values on the left are the ASN.1 tag (in hexadecimal) and the length (in decimal).

30 2902: SEQUENCE {
06    8:  OBJECT IDENTIFIER logotype (1 3 6 1 5 5 7 1 12)
04 2888:  OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
30 2884:   SEQUENCE {
A3 2880:    [3] {
30 2876:     SEQUENCE {
30 2872:      SEQUENCE {
06    8:       OBJECT IDENTIFIER '1 3 6 1 5 5 7 20 3'
A0 2858:       [0] {
30 2854:        SEQUENCE {
30 2850:         SEQUENCE {
30 2846:          SEQUENCE {
16   18:           IA5String 'image/svg+xml+gzip'
30   49:           SEQUENCE {
30   47:            SEQUENCE {
30   11:             SEQUENCE {
06    9:              OBJECT IDENTIFIER
       :               sha-256 (2 16 840 1 101 3 4 2 1)
       :               }
04   32:             OCTET STRING
       :           83 14 B3 26 9B D3 8B 0B 2A E6 6E 42 74 E2 A7 57
       :           7A 40 B7 E1 2E 53 42 44 CC 7C AE 14 68 1B 0E B6
       :              }
       :             }
30 2771:           SEQUENCE {
16 2767:            IA5String
       :          'data:image/svg+xml+gzip;base64,H4sICLXutU0AA0Nlc'
       :          'nRJbWFnZURlbW8uc3ZnANVaW2/bOBZ+n19BqBigwdoS7xK9j'
       :          'meapB0EWHQHzez2WZZoR1tZMiQ5jvvr95CSL7Gl1Em8C9d9i'
       :          'ERSPOd85+O5EB3+9jhL0YMuyiTPLh3iYgfpLMrjJJteOv/66'
       :          '1M/cFBZhVkcpnmmL50sd34b/TIsH6YoiS+da11UySSJwkqj2'
       :          '1k41Q6CDbNyUMSTS+e+quYDz1sul+6SuXkx9YhSysPUo7QPK'
       :          '/rlKqvCx35Wvmu+a/uGYow9EOigh0Qvr/LHSwcjjDjGiGHQ9'
       :          '14n0/sKlMf4Vwctk7i6X7/sGEYdNA5L/WeRT5IUDKmSbLVWN'
       :          'oo2cqNCh1XyoKN8Nsuz0iqwVW8Qb1fOF0Vqp+PI06me6awqP'
       :          'eISzxn9goYzXYVxWIUWpfWLCMwcGoLpgy83n8wzGkbR4Gtef'

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 33

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

       :          'ENmMBznC7DEroKpOBpM8mIWVqPEYGtA+BvoMfS2E5uF1Wqu7'
       :          'R6FLvNFEelWReNolpiV3l2VpGntMW9nk6RKdf0+9BrFrMbeV'
       :          'uWhtzbHvMR6UlobPyVpBWjXBk7six2vH5nCwY6nXCo5xb7Yu'
       :          'svFVPqCOGh16fSxSxglmPkScLfvmDDmC4FlDc1wov8IF2WZh'
       :          'NlVumgEPRliimDD3PhGPyTgUUMC6lKqKAjxaptq1boUJvQFs'
       :          'vi+LOJyxZkPE/vCwHuAmXmoj1AarnRBatzqkbv7cK5Ls2ORf'
       :          'wM/vsOG5lURZqXxOnDXPKZw5t5jVzIhFKO0B6D6hARSXDR6F'
       :          'zqq7H7mQeJAOQiUSPvFIrUHOfuui3zrFI5dYVeAmpcOcOb9u'
       :          '63vLjae4kYX4yRifYPrTa2SlMigYdO+cEWeGADMLZLH96SH4'
       :          'R9xRYApl6q3Y02f+NzlRAl+cZSKhB6qSIVa80fsqMnWOqZJp'
       :          'msXwAPoyNaQ95uNIGasKPwhxGzQzOXzMIIzBKabmLIil470z'
       :          'fSjWWn+kvpvLQ9g1l3yRIc8gukz0uysEcakcDfy3KMk+l0SO'
       :          'XlOopltJL7EPtUlzZfP4tnM70k8xkKCySt92MwfIXPoTe0pn'
       :          'u4dYbp7hJ/kxWySN0ey0o/1qbiCsxDXJMWWo37QekBcAUFPS'
       :          'GkPCnUJF5wwBacDK5cGlEp4BC2lYoJcrNNGVc7DzIqxT4CKs'
       :          'PlrAG8mL8whRejiQe9EmImIAoz3sds9NxP4RZEzugqzb7c3Q'
       :          '89u3WQKY9aegbsA/AUJB/bJs6pfJt9BHFEuk5DWITzOH5uZS'
       :          'ThLUsDjQ5GE6RMsyihMTaQLfA6BIiAQMAhnHHN1sd61WtUhD'
       :          'VJiuhkrdBXd740+hLB9Vm1HjQe4ywLOBLWOMMiyQAXNB8sm9'
       :          'Gx2qdGgGkMG6wY8aLfqgH4dfnmrVc+pPrE/Z/QnZOs8C1Okb'
       :          '2/ggwLdxlDC1D6DFPZDD98txv8xQf5TEc7Ax6ZyaDf6BC4Sy'
       :          'lWKCMqtizp80+UMchATal63qHq0M3ZTs83Ob/XO6LYsFzpGV'
       :          'Y5+iLxdWvwY+NaKoR/0iJIXL3dBjT2hG+wO+NXm53XStSh1e'
       :          'ogfeojV35BTOaqh/cmPUe2Mdp91pQp2CjWOO2k7OamhjU1HB'
       :          '3DLGm66n6iajz4bqn2oICmNFxDR/x2mC5s+rKhlkUA3Ne3P8'
       :          'lgP0qJfjf9uvu+HWXSfFwNoH4uqGUmTadYMtOc7yjEEd9EUh'
       :          'kwEEOcDSHKQ+yhnSvUYRH8miQo2FK5TCjWZZGWKB8iHPud16'
       :          'wApnCvTOzjIFAj9TQdCxa+ddOTizaa1xJvD0qMrKx+Ydaj6i'
       :          'wJQG0vaSdYWpTv4HwVRAP3Z6ONjOJunEIeKRVmhujpA2+wPm'
       :          'QR9WFQAFhh9bGQzFEXX+WwOnXq8pV35P2Acdn0pGebcMg7Og'
       :          'QKaEdOKEAkFlk/9HuEKGBVwucc4AjnJ/LBYU09hVwWY1F0Hl'
       :          'BUC2lbyIuYF58O8p+adMwUt9YAoX/IwRtAC9NAdBAyGuEB3V'
       :          'R59u8/TGYx9/Xjz8bPB/Z/F9B0SghBK+4xxfiwtr0GXECqed'
       :          'QQ9PRVpEAQ+26MidbGSmPm8RwRzcQsT17EPSmoorH3+av4Jc'
       :          'j78O/vIp/uzMEkHKAE6/F7VHHSj8HddR0Q3ymcGZfRVjwfmO'
       :          'nNn3GuWR+FzhcPmPqiptHcayacT28T8j3Cs0/LQCwo6J2iYx'
       :          'P4R58AsobjFegusoJhuq7VNS2evRPcqASvQki+gbkBYwETNP'
       :          't/1A2pT6UErR1zMzUITZRvF5Lp5basO1fk2U4aBSjkji8quL'
       :          '3cDyW7TpI3unxezMcSTNhQJhfpGctKgKN2Amo7/7ShSev4oX'
       :          'icPSYS+6GkCm9a1Qw3VEchCUA+z5HtTcbQhK6F14YFUp+Yn7'
       :          'WgmzwpZCDf5DDiXT9B7U6RdHAHpdb7IqmLVjqZSLnTW61zjQ'
       :          '7/G7D3hm9E846uTDZoNMADmLlm7IG2ieXfUtu1US9TeNGUHi'
       :          'bE9Nv//2jRJGZfQmK3v7ykJJOv1IXjBsDCPpmgWppe6sHxR3'
       :          'KVSQKqp+WIqammuJbtqkxZmMHry4oS/9pLhdCXKq8uR0R+LD'
       :          'EqCKRxqc5VXdvPvIP+ggwR0RkyBfO9iKZvrWGAKVdz31cuoc'
       :          'voO/qemClFMYEFEH7oI+vpkek4s4bCMBqK+5mHQUlDpE/oyl'
       :          'py+2/6pWXK31PEYagP04epV1cE50UMy6IQZeQM7+Ol74Z+eH'
       :          'fpHNc7OjffQ/HeV0X8BopoDkGEkAAA='
       :             }
       :            }
       :           }
       :          }
       :         }
       :        }
       :       }
       :      }
       :     }

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 34

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

       :    }
       :   }

B.5.  Full Certificate Example

[RFC9216]

The following example contains a certificate for Alice; it is essentially a renewal of the certificate
that appears in
. Of course, the serial number and issue dates are different. In addition,
Alice's certificate now has a logotype certificate extension. The extension contains URLs for two
community logotype images, both at fictional URLs. The extension also contains URLs for two
subject organization logotype images, both at fictional URLs. An implementation would display at
most three of these images, both of the community logotype images and one of the subject
organization logotype images. Direct addressing is used for all of the images, and the images are
hashed by SHA-256.

-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----

The following displays the logotype certificate extension from Alice's certificate. The values on
the left are the ASN.1 tag (in hexadecimal) and the length (in decimal).

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 35

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

30 464: SEQUENCE {
06   8:  OBJECT IDENTIFIER logotype (1 3 6 1 5 5 7 1 12)
04 450:  OCTET STRING, encapsulates {
30 446:   SEQUENCE {
A0 227:    [0] {
30 224:     SEQUENCE {
A0 111:      [0] {
30 109:       SEQUENCE {
30 107:        SEQUENCE {
30 105:         SEQUENCE {
16  10:          IA5String 'image/jpeg'
30  49:          SEQUENCE {
30  47:           SEQUENCE {
30  11:            SEQUENCE {
06   9:             OBJECT IDENTIFIER
      :              sha-256 (2 16 840 1 101 3 4 2 1)
      :              }
04  32:            OCTET STRING
      :            AF FC 10 16 46 CB 56 25 B4 99 7D E5 89 3E AE 3A
      :            84 6F 5A 02 D3 82 D6 DA 8E D4 EE F8 7C BD 1D ED
      :             }
      :            }
30  40:          SEQUENCE {
16  38:           IA5String 'http://www.example.net/images/logo.jpg'
      :            }
      :           }
      :          }
      :         }
      :        }
A0 109:      [0] {
30 107:       SEQUENCE {
30 105:        SEQUENCE {
30 103:         SEQUENCE {
16   9:          IA5String 'image/gif'
30  49:          SEQUENCE {
30  47:           SEQUENCE {
30  11:            SEQUENCE {
06   9:             OBJECT IDENTIFIER
      :              sha-256 (2 16 840 1 101 3 4 2 1)
      :              }
04  32:            OCTET STRING
      :            88 90 81 81 AD FB 66 AE 2F 66 D0 49 A0 4D 8E A0
      :            EC 4E A8 64 42 38 5B 36 4A BF 2C 8B D2 E9 E9 66
      :             }
      :            }
30  39:          SEQUENCE {
16  37:           IA5String 'http://www.example.org/logo-image.gif'
      :            }
      :           }
      :          }
      :         }
      :        }
      :       }
      :      }
A2 213:    [2] {
A0 210:     [0] {
30 207:      SEQUENCE {

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 36

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

30 101:       SEQUENCE {
30  99:        SEQUENCE {
16   9:         IA5String 'image/gif'
30  49:         SEQUENCE {
30  47:          SEQUENCE {
30  11:           SEQUENCE {
06   9:            OBJECT IDENTIFIER
      :             sha-256 (2 16 840 1 101 3 4 2 1)
      :             }
04  32:           OCTET STRING
      :            6A 58 50 2E 59 67 F9 DD D1 8A FE BD 0D B1 FE 60
      :            A5 13 1B DF 0F B2 BE F0 B5 73 45 50 BA 1B BF 19
      :            }
      :           }
30  35:         SEQUENCE {
16  33:          IA5String 'http://www.smime.example/logo.gif'
      :           }
      :          }
      :         }
30 102:       SEQUENCE {
30 100:        SEQUENCE {
16  10:         IA5String 'image/jpeg'
30  49:         SEQUENCE {
30  47:          SEQUENCE {
30  11:           SEQUENCE {
06   9:            OBJECT IDENTIFIER
      :             sha-256 (2 16 840 1 101 3 4 2 1)
      :             }
04  32:           OCTET STRING
      :            BD CB 7B 75 72 6D 8C 1B 33 A4 2C DE AC 79 72 DA
      :            4A D9 F2 79 84 0A 58 58 6A CE 2F 02 80 EA D7 A5
      :            }
      :           }
30  35:         SEQUENCE {
16  33:          IA5String 'http://www.smime.example/logo.jpg'
      :           }
      :          }
      :         }
      :        }
      :       }
      :      }
      :     }
      :    }
      :   }

Appendix C.  Changes since RFCs 3709 and 6170

This appendix summarizes the changes since

[RFC3709]

. The changes are:

•

Combine RFCs 3709 and 6170 into one document, and encourage implementers to support
the "data" URI scheme (data:...) that was originally specified in RFC 6170. Merging RFCs 3709
and 6170 led to many editorial changes throughout the document.

•

Drop SHA-1 as the mandatory-to-implement hash algorithm, and encourage use of the one-
way hash function that is employed by the certificate signature algorithm.

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 37

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

•

RFC 3709 required client applications to support both direct and indirect addressing. This
requirement is changed to
implementations to be more privacy preserving.

 support both direct and indirect addressing to allow

SHOULD

•

Update the reference for language tags to be RFC 5646 instead of the now obsolete RFC 3066.

•

Update the reference for the URI Generic Syntax to be RFC 3986 instead of the now obsolete
RFC 2396.

•

Update the reference for the application/pdf media type to be RFC 8118 instead of the now
obsolete RFC 3778.

•

No longer require support for the FTP scheme (ftp://...) URI.

•

Require support for the HTTP scheme (http://...) URI and the HTTPS scheme (https://...) URI.

•

Provide syntax of the "data" URI scheme using modern ABNF.

•

Require support for the compressed SVG image format with the image/svg+xml+gzip media
type.

•

Media types
This change resolves Errata ID 2679.

 follow the ABNF

MUST

[RFC5234]

 that is provided in

Section 8.3.1 of [RFC9110]
.

•

Remove the requirement that the LogotypeData file name have a file extension of ".LTD".
This change resolves Errata ID 2325.

•

Encourage, instead of requiring, each logotype to be represented by at least one image.

•

Encourage the inclusion of text-based audio data suitable for processing by a text-to-speech
software using the media type of "text/plain;charset=UTF-8".

•

Encourage the use of dithering if an image needs to be scaled.

•

Require that the logotype certificate extension not contain more than one certificate image
logotype.

•

Privacy-related topics that were previously discussed in the Security Considerations section
are now covered in a separate Privacy Considerations section. Additional topics are covered
in both sections.

•

Provide ASN.1 modules for both the older syntax
syntax

[NEW-ASN1]

.

[OLD-ASN1]

 and the most recent ASN.1

•

Provide additional references.

•

Provide additional examples.

•

Several editorial changes to improve clarity.

•

The example in Appendix B.1 was changed to use SHA-256 instead of SHA-1.

Acknowledgments

•

Acknowledgments from RFC 3709

This document is the result of contributions from many professionals. The authors
appreciate contributions from all members of the IETF PKIX Working Group. We extend a
special thanks to
Al Arsenault David Cross Tim Polk Russel Weiser Terry Hayes Alex
,
Deacon Andrew Hoag Randy Sabett Denis Pinkas Magnus Nystrom Ryan Hurst
,
, and
,
Griffin
 for their efforts and support.

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Phil

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 38

RFC 9399

Logotypes in X.509 Certificates

May 2023

 thanks the management at RSA Laboratories, especially

Russ Housley
supported the development of this specification. The vast majority of the work on this
specification was done while Russ was employed at RSA Laboratories.

Burt Kaliski

, who

•

Acknowledgments from RFC 6170

The authors recognize valuable contributions from members of the PKIX working group, the
CA Browser Forum, and

, for their review and sample data.

James Manger

•

Additional Acknowledgments

Combining RFCs 3709 and 6170 has produced an improved specification. The authors
appreciate contributions from all members of the IETF LAMPS Working Group. We extend a
special thanks to
Tim Geiser
thanks to
We extend a special thanks to
Wouters Paul Kyzivat Shuping Peng Sheng Jiang Rob Wilton Éric Vyncke Donald Eastlake
,
3rd
 for their careful review and helpful comments.

 for his careful checking of the new examples in Appendices B.4 and B.5.

Corey Bonnell Daniel Kahn Gillmor Roman Danyliw Paul

 for his guidance on media types. We extend a special

,
Dan Harkins
, and

Alexey Melnikov

,

,

,

,

,

,

,

Authors' Addresses

Stefan Santesson
IDsec Solutions AB
Forskningsbyn Ideon
SE-223 70 Lund
Sweden
Email:

 sts@aaa-sec.com

Russ Housley
Vigil Security, LLC
516 Dranesville Road
Herndon VA 20170
,
United States of America
Email:

 housley@vigilsec.com

Trevor Freeman
Amazon Web Services
1918 8th Ave
Seattle WA 98101
,
United States of America
Email:

 frtrevor@amazon.com

Leonard Rosenthol
Adobe
345 Park Avenue
San Jose CA 95110
,
United States of America
Email:

 lrosenth@adobe.com

Santesson, et al.

Standards Track

Page 39

